It was a lazy Sunday afternoon when my friend and I sat at home sipping ice-cold homemade lemonade. We watched as our kids played around in the garden, totally unaffected by the scorching heat. The raging heat and the fact that it was a Sunday gave us the perfect excuse we were looking for to lounge around and not move a limb. Schools had closed a week ago for summer vacation and the holiday mood had set in full effect.

 I sat by the pool hoping that the heat would help me melt in the right places in my body sans exercise. As my mind wandered, I couldn’t help but notice how blissed out my kids were in the company of kids their age. Adults live in a world where we always believe that even three is a crowd while children live in a world where the more the merrier proves to be right every single time. My cook had brought his son along with him to work that day (it was truly nice of him to accept my request and come in on a Sunday given that I have seen help not turning up even on weekdays at many homes). The children got along like hay from the same stack the minute they were put together to play a match of football. Nothing mattered, least of all the heat. 
 
 I couldn’t stop myself from imagining if there was a new entry into a kitty party or a new hand into a usual game of men’s poker night it would 
 
 take a while for people to be friendly. As people grow, judgments tend to grow. I am a text-book definition of an introvert and I am not proud to say that I would take lightyears to talk to people. When I saw how these kids got along, it did make me feel a bit ashamed of myself and also a tad jealous that I am not as free-spirited as them.
 
 The minute summer holidays are announced, there is an undercurrent of panic in every household. The pressure of keeping the little ones entertained looms large and is a point of tension for every mother and this fear would reflect through the mother in the father.
 Summer camps ,workshops, crash sports courses are the first things that pop into desperate minds and trust me somewhere if you stop and keenly listen you can hear your child’s inner voice blasting you away.
 
 Kids, too, have evolved into brilliantly smart little beings. I once heard one smart cookie walk up to her mother who was working on her presentation and go “Ma, my friend Ahana is off with her parents to Aspen and Rupika is off to London. Where are we off to?” Her large pussycat eyes and the innocent rendition of the question got the mother to drop her work and google holiday spots the minute she told her off. Guilt is powerful. The little one knew exactly how to play her cards and she had struck the queen down.
 
 I have come to realise that whether it is day-long workshops or summer camps or the best holiday destinations, kids love company. They enjoy playing for hours together, getting all sweaty and dirty in the playground with their peers, and eating junk food while fighting over battleships on their PlayStations.
 
 They love hosting make-believe tea parties in their backyard for the whole afternoon and soaking in blue splash pools under the smiling sun.
 
 Get a few kids together, no matter what the age group, they will make friends in an instant and mingle merrily .They will find topics to talk, games to play, fights to pick up and stories to make up; Such priceless qualities which diminishes as the age mounts… such is the beauty of life, I guess.
 
 I’m off now to plan my vacation with my adorable brats… Happy holidays!
 
 
 
 
