SURAT: A woman and her daughter were arrested by crime branch of city police in connection with the recent deaths due to consumption of hooch here on Monday. Sheela  , 54, and her married daughter Nimisha alias  , 30, were arrested for allegedly preparing a deadly mix of liquor whose consumption had killed six people since January 16 in the city. 

 The accused were booked under Indian Penal Code section 304 (punishment for culpable homicide not amounting to murder) and Gujarat Prohibition Act sections 65 (A, B, C, D, E, F) which deals with manufacture of laththa, construction of brewery, selling, using, keeping, transporting and possessing of laththa; 66 (1) B that addresses the issue of consumption, use, possession or transporting of any intoxicant, and 65-A (2) that pertains to death of any person due to consumption of laththa. The first complaint under these sections were registered at Katargam police station on January 16. 
 
 Police investigation revealed that the mother-daughter duo used to mix Arnica Mont, a homeopathy medicine, with Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) before adding water and food colour to the concoction. Nimisha had gone to buy Arnica Mont from the medicine shop of Bharat Shah Aditya Corporation. Shah, who is blind, did not have it so he got another medicine Thuja from a shop and gave it to Nimisha. 
 
 However, the police are clueless about the source of methanol that killed the victims. City police commissioner   could not explain at the press conference on Tuesday how the methanol got mixed with the liquor.
 
 “The accused women used to mix medicine with the IMFL, water and food colour to prepare liquor. The six victims had died consuming the liquor,” said Sharma. However, police are not clear where methanol and homeopathy medicine got mixed with the liquor. Their samples have been sent for testing at   (FSL).
 
 Police suspect that the medicine contained methanol but there is no clarity on it. “We have recovered the medicine from the supplier shop and sent it for testing. The results will tell us if methanol was there in the medicine or not,” Sharma added.
 
 
