NEW DELHI: With   2017-18, the Aam Aadmi Party government has started an outcome budgeting exercise where every budgetary scheme and project that will be passed in the budget by the House on Friday will be put through a quarterly review. Deputy CM Manish Sisodia said “it would act like a contract between the government and the people”.

 Addressing the house, Sisodia said that “budget accountability is often talked about but an outcome budget goes much further.” He explained with an example. “Let’s assume that Rs 20 lakh is spent to build a mohalla clinic. We then monitor if the building was constructed or not. This is budget accountability, but through the outcome budget, we will also monitor how many people were benefited after the building was constructed. This will be its outcome, which will then be monitored every quarter,” Sisodia said. 
 
 The Delhi government sees this as a measure to usher in complete transparency and accountability. A comprehensive outcome budgeting exercise has been carried out by each department. “All major programmes and schemes have been mapped against outputs i.e. tangible infrastructure or services to be provided, and outcomes i.e. how will the people of Delhi benefit from that spending. Subsequently, indicators have been defined for each output and outcome and targets for 2017-18 have been set,” a government statement issued in January had explained.
 
 Speaking at a review meeting of all heads of departments in January, Sisodia had said: “A traditional budget emphasizes only financial outlays and spending on various activities but stops short of promising outcomes that citizens eventually care about.”
 
 Each budgetary allocation will be accompanied by a comprehensive set of quantifiable indicators, some measuring outputs and some measuring outcomes. Extra attention is being paid to ensure indicators are specific and measurable and comparable across similar institutions and programmes, for e.g. hospitals, engineering colleges, skill-training programmes etc. 
 
 For example, in the case of the mohalla clinics, the total financial outlay for 2017-18 will be accompanied by output indicators measuring the total number of new mohalla clinics that will be launched, number of medical and para-medical staff to be deployed and the number of free medicines and tests that will be made available. The outcome indicators will track the actual number of patients availing these services as well as a satisfaction score on a scale of 1 to 5.
 
 Since the total list of indicators might run into thousands, the government is also planning to develop an IT application which will track all these commitments on a quarterly basis, based on inputs provided by departments, and, in some cases, through independent surveys.
 
