CHENNAI: A losing 5-15 head-to-head record isn't a comfortable situation for   going into the qualifier against   in Bengaluru on Friday.

 But KKR's in-form pacer   feels the trend can change from Friday's encounter. The 29-year-old, who has taken 16 wickets, says they have found a definitive trend in Mumbai Indians' gameplan and KKR will do their best to disrupt the opponent's rhythm. "Mumbai Indians' batting is heavily dependent on how Parthiv Patel fires at the top. In matches, when Parthiv failed, their middle order struggled. He is their highest run-scorer (377 runs) and even though they have batsmen like Rohit Sharma and Kieron Pollard, it is Parthiv who holds the innings together. He is the silent operator and often gives them a good start by batting for the entire duration of the Powerplay. It gives the others like Pollard the freedom to express themselves. So it is important that we take the wicket of Parthiv early and break their rhythm right at the start," Umesh told TOI on Thursday.
 
 KKR survived a close encounter with Sunrisers Hyderabad in the Eliminator on Wednesday. With only 48 runs to chase in six overs in the rain-curtailed tie, they lost three wickets before Gambhir steadied the ship. Umesh said their batsmen need to show more responsibility. "The pressure was on us when we lost a few quick wickets. Had we lost another batsman, no one knew how things would have panned out. All the efforts of the bowlers might have gone to waste. But Gautambhai showed maturity. Hopefully, the batsmen will show more responsibility tomorrow," Umesh pointed out.
 
 The Eliminator ended on Thursday morning at 1:27 am after the three-hour delay caused by rain. With only a day separating the Qualifier 2, KKR will understandably be more jaded than their opponents, who had played the Qualifier1 on Tuesday. However, Umesh sounded confident about the team's recovery. "It was for the first time that a match ended so late. By the time we reached our hotel, it was 3 am. But when you are playing  , you have to be prepared for any eventualities. We are relieved to finish as the winning side and it has given us the momentum and confidence. I won't say that we will be absolutely fresh but we hope to recover for Friday's game," said Umesh.
 
