KOHIMA: Tension prevailed in   on Friday, a day after protesters set ablaze many government buildings and vehicles to oppose 33% reservation for women in urban local bodies (ULBs). Bodies of two agitators who were killed in Dimapur police firing were laid to rest as thousands of mourners gathered in the state capital to pay their last respects. An indefinite bandh called by the Angami Youth Organisation (AYO) is still on in Kohima and Dimapur.

  has been on the boil ever since the T R Zeliang government decided to implement quota for women in the ULB polls. Elections to 10 town councils, which were held on Wednesday despite opposition from all 15 Naga tribes, has been declared null and void in view of the prevailing situation.
 
 On Thursday night, protesters torched buildings housing at least 20 government offices and the Kohima Press Club. The offices of the Kohima district collector and Nagaland commissioner were also stoned. The ruling Naga People’s Front (NPF) office was also reportedly vandalised and set on fire.
 
 Kohima deputy commissioner and district magistrate Rajesh Soudararajan imposed Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code in four areas, including the  , following the violence.
 
 Nagaland governor P B Acharya arrived at Raj Bhavan from Itanagar on Friday and met members of the newly formed Nagaland Tribes Action Committee (NTAC), which comprises representatives of all apex Naga tribes.
 
 NTAC reiterated its demands before the governor, which include resignation of the CM and his cabinet and suspension of police personnel involved in the firing on Tuesday and Wednesday. NTAC convener K T Velie said the governor promised he would take action as per the Constitution.
 
 Mobile data, SMS and internet services continued to be snapped across Nagaland for the fifth day. The state government cut off these services on Monday to avoid spreading of rumours in view of the protests. DGP LL Dougel said police, CRPF and   have secured all the important areas that house the Raj Bhavan, chief minister's official residence and the state secretariat.
 
 
