NAGPUR: Defending champions   (YMFC) paid the price of playing it rash from the word go. The strategy backfired as they committed a foul and conceded a goal off penalty kick which proved decisive in their 1-0 loss to   on Tuesday.

 Rahul Sankrutyayan anticipated YMFC's style and took time before charging in. Initially, they kept a check on YMFC's forward. 
 
 Once their 4-men midfield of Muzammil Khan, Vasu Kanojia, Fedrick Peter and Vaibhav Sherley got into the groove, Rahul started to charge during their second NDFA Elite Division League match at Police Line Takli ground.
 
 "Our plan was to see what strategy the YMFC boys are playing with for initial 15-20 minutes. After we got to know their position and combination, we changed our strategy accordingly.
 
 "The plan worked for us and gave us a victory," Vaibhav Sherley, who scored a lone goal of the match, said while talking to TOI after the match.
 
 With Rahul players intercepting YMFC's passes and creating attacks, frustration began to creep in in   fold. As a result they resorted to physical game to stop Sankrutyayan's forward   and Arvin George.
 
 Within 20 minutes from the start, YMFC defender Gulam Imran's aggressively tackle left Peter with a bleeding ear. The injury saw Peter going out of the field for 5 minutes. Referee Yogesh Yesur took the cognizance and flashed yellow card to Gulam.
 
 Gulam's antics was followed by another foul from defender Mohd Ali, which cost them a match. In the 30th minute, Ali in attempt to clear the ball from the penalty area, committed a foul that resulted in a penalty kick.
 
 Sherley, who is also skipper of Rahul Sankrutyayan and a penalty kick expert, calmly deceived YMFC goalkeeper   by targeting the left corner, while Ansari dived on the right to draw the first blood.
 
 "Penalty kicks are something that I practice a lot during training. My teammates call me an expert in that field. So, I'm happy that the kick came off nicely at the crucial moment. It feels nice to score a win against a good team like YMFC," Sherley said.
 
