MEERUT: National Green Tribunal’s order to test the ground water along the course of East Kali river has given hope to thousands of villagers in eight west UP districts. For years, the villagers were forced to drink contaminated water of hand-pumps, which drew water from the river.
 
 Once a pristine tributary to the mighty Ganga, the East Kali river is now reduced to a dark shadow of its former self. The river, which   hundreds of villages in eight districts of western Uttar Pradesh, once used to replenish the ground water of the region, through which hand-pumps draw water.
  Locals said that instead of water, the river now carries “industrial effluent and municipal waste”.
  
 They said that the hand-pumps “spew venom” instead of fresh water, leading to spread of cancer and various other life-threatening diseases. According to a recent report, at least 20 people died of cancer in just three villages of neighbouring Bijnor due to contaminated water and over a dozen people were suffering from the deadly disease.
  However, last week’s NGT order, asking the   (CPCB) to inspect the hand pumps releasing contaminated ground water in the eight districts has come as a breather for thousands of villagers living along the river.
  
 A bench, headed by NGT Chairperson  , has directed the apex pollution monitoring body to test the samples of the ground water in these areas through which East Kali River flows. The CPCB has been asked by the green panel to test the water samples and seal the hand-pumps if they find the water to be polluted.
  Meerut, Muzaffarnagar, Hapur, Bulandshahr, Kasganj, Aligarh, Kannauj and Farrukhabad are the eight districts through which the river passes.
  Locals allege that several pleas to the government to treat the contaminated river elicited no response. Some of the villages even purchased RO system with the help of local NGOs to get clean drinking water.
  
 The NGT order came on a plea filed by Meerut resident Raman Kant Tyagi seeking directions for preparation of a comprehensive action plan for   and sealing of the hand pumps whose water is not fit for consumption.
  
 East Kali originates from Antwada village in Muzaffarnagar district and flows through the west UP districts before its confluence into Ganga near Kannauj.
  
 The petition, filed through advocate Rahul Khurana, has made Union Ministry of Environment and Forests, Ministry of Water Resources, Uttar Pradesh government and CPCB as parties.
  
 According to the plea, sugar processing units and their associated alcohol manufacture distilleries, paper mills and tanneries, located adjacent to the river, were extracting large volumes of water and contaminating the river by discharging their effluents into it.
  
 “It is a positive step. We have been drinking poison for long and nobody from the government ever bothered to check. We even had to spend money and install RO machines. But, the water is so dirty that even ROs are not helping. There are several cases of cancer in our village because of the dirty water,” said Dewendar Sharma, a resident of Panwari village in Sardhana, Meerut.
  
 After an inspection in November 2016, UP Jal Nigam, the UP Pollution Control Board, National Mission for Clean Ganga and CPCB had stated in their report that 14 drains were releasing effluents into the river.
