BENGALURU: After the   ( ) failed to award gold medals to many a deserving student at the 52nd convocation ceremony on Friday, university officials on Saturday dispelled reports of the varsity being strapped for funds. 

 "Reports of the university not having money are untrue. Medals are awarded to students from the funds we receive through endowments and donations. We reached out to the donors asking them for more funds to ensure that all subject toppers received medals, but most of them did not revert. A few of them refused to increase the endowment amount," BU vice-chancellor Prof B Thimme Gowda told STOI.
 
 However, many students who attended the convocation ceremony, hoping to walk away with a glittering medal dangling from their neck were left disappointed. Nagaraj, a civil engineering student at the  , said that he was supposed to receive six gold medals, but was awarded just one. "I saw some parents weeping, because their wards did not receive a medal," he added.
 
  The university was able to present just 100 of the 203 medals that was supposed to be given to toppers. 
 
 The varsity is now contemplating returning the endowment funds it has received to the donors, and replacing it with another system wherein only the toppers in each department - civil engineering, sociology, economics, etc, - will be awarded medals, while those students who have outscored the others in a single subject will be given a cash prize, in addition to a certificate. On Friday, many subject toppers did not receive medals at all.
 
 "The university has been awarding medals to students for the past 50 years. This is why we decided to award medals to some of the students, since we believe that they carry more glory than certificates or cash prizes," Prof Gowda said.
 
 He added that some of the medals had been instituted many years ago, when the endowment sum was little. "The university has paid from its own funds for all the 82 awards that were presented to the department toppers," he said.
 
 However, in a press conference before the convocation ceremony, the varsity had said that 203 medals would be presented. "We asked the students if they would pay for the medals. But they were unwilling to do so. It's unfortunate that they have misunderstood our intentions," Prof Gowda added.
 
 Nagaraj said that receiving medals meant a great deal to students. "Back in my village, people would think that I lied to them about receiving six medals if I returned with just one," he said.
 
 Another student, on the condition of anonymity, said, "If the unive rsity replaces the existing system, it will demotivate the students. We study very hard to earn this honour, and make our parents proud." 
 
 
