HYDERABAD:   courses seem to be losing their appeal for  , with 30% of the seats still lying vacant after the final phase of counseling that concluded on Friday. Candidates who wish to seek lateral entry into engineering pursue three years of polytechnic diploma after the completion of Class 10. In  , the   (Polycet) is the qualifying exam to seek admission in various colleges.
Figures shared by the polycet convenor reveal the declining popularity of polytechnic courses. This year, of the 44,451 seats in 185 government and private polytechnics, only 31,312 seats were filled. Last year, too, 14,721 seats were vacant after counseling ended.
 
 Following the large number of vacancies last year, the total intake in polytechnic colleges also went down this year. In 2016, Telangana had 58,080 seats, which dropped to 44,451 this year as 38 colleges shut down because of poor response and facilities, bringing the total count from 223 polytechnics to 185 .
 
 Although 80% seats were left vacant in private polytechnics, there were no takers for a few courses in government polytechnics as well.
 
 Officials attribute the waning interest in certain courses to the lack of job opportunities in those fields. “There are various courses such as diploma in computer and commercial practice, garment technology and craft technology that have hardly any takers because of lack of job avenues. Other candidates who do not foresee any scope in polytechnic education skip their seat and prefer to seek admission in regular intermediate courses,“ said D Venkateshwarlu, secretary, Telangana Board of Technical Education and Training.
 
 Polytechnic managements also attribute the rising number of vacant seats to the government's ban on admitting students from other states.
 
 “Until 2014, we used to fill up the vacant seats by granting admissions to candidates from other states. As Telangana government is not allowing us to do that anymore, polytechnic managements are suffering. We have to bear the expenditure even for the vacant seats,“ said Akheel Ahmed, chairman of   in Nalgonda.
 
