CHANDIGARH: Union minister and SAD leader  , who was here to campaign for her brother Bikram Majithia, on Sunday alleged that former BJP MP   had been bargaining for the highest posts in politics. Speaking to TOI, she said that Sidhu did not show any concern for the people of Amritsar who sent him to Parliament repeatedly .

 
 
 
 I think Navjot Singh Sidhu has been acting in `Laughter Challenge' and `Comedy Nights' for so long that he has made a mockery of himself. He even didn't bother about the party that gave him so much of respect and twice made him an MP. Not only did he not bother to attend Parliament but also didn't do anything for the people of his constituency . I think his lack of loyalty is highlighted by the fact that he could neither be loyal to his party nor he could be loyal to his godfather who brought him into politics.
 
 
 
 
 This is someone who can't be loyal to his own people and goes shopping for a post.Goes looking for whosoever will get him the biggest discount for the highest post.Sometimes he is seen joining AAP but when he is not promised the chief minister's post he drops it like a hot potato and goes shopping to the next party . And now, just 20 days before elections, he is arriving in Amritsar. I think he is not concerned about his people.
 
 
 
 When he was made an MP , he had his own government at the Centre. He had his party's government in the state. It was a golden opportunity to serve the people but I think his intentions were not to serve. That is why he ran away from the chance to work.
 
 
 
 
 AAP is acting like B team of the Congress in Punjab. AAP and the Congress are only concentrating on who they are fielding against Parkash Singh Badal, Sukhbir and Bikram. They are not concerned about who they are putting up against each other. AAP is posting its weakest candidates against the Congress, which is also going all out to support it. These two parties have done everything to disturb the peace and harmony of Punjab. They have got in touch with radicals to ensure all kinds of disturbances. Clearly, they are playing a friendly match to defeat Akali-BJP combine in Punjab.
 
 
 
 
 Someone who calls himself a fauji (soldier) but as soon as he sees a General in front of him, he runs away from the battlefield like a coward. He is not going to Lambi, he is running away from Patiala.
 
