MUMBAI: The city's biggest Ganpati mandals which literally earned their stature owing to the tall 25-ft idols crafted by moortikar   are in a state of shock and disbelief after his sudden death. Khatu passed away at age 63 after suffering a heart attack Wednesday.

 Sunday evening the Chinchpokli cha Chintamani mandal organised a condolence meeting for him.
 
 Unarguably the most prominent idol-makers of the city, Vijay Khatu was born to Ramkrishna, a millworker turned sculptor. It was he who pioneered the trend of tall picturesque idols that rose 25 ft and beyond. Mandals like  , Khetwadi 11th Lane, Akhil Chandanwadi, Chinchpokli cha Chintamani, Kamathipura Ganesh and Upanagarcha Raja in Borivli proudly displayed his name in their pandals and as their calling card.
 
 His brother Rajan Khatu, also a moortikar of repute, said, "He worked a stressful job certainly, was sleep deprived, and although he was feeling unwell in recent weeks, he would avoid getting a check-up saying what if the doctors advised him to get admitted to hospital? This was peak season after all. He kept saying the discomfiture was only acidity."
 
 Ganesh Vadvel, executive president of the Khetwadi mandal agreed. "The stress of working 24/7, handling 70-80 artisans and hundreds of mandals is not easily borne. But what a master craftsman! I still remember the Ramavtar and   he crafted for us." Ganesh Gully's president Kiran Tawde is still to absorb the shock.
 
 Vijay Khatu's workshop at the Central Railway complex in Parel sees an army of sculptors moulding idols of various shapes and sizes ahead of Ganeshotsav. This season too work continues as usual, only the flock of artisans -- even the moortis -- seem to seek their shepherd who suddenly left them bereft.
 
 Khatu's daughter Reshma, son Rohan and a loyal band of moortikars like Raju Shinde who have trained under him cannot afford the luxury of mourning given that there are scores of orders to complete. Brother Rajan said, "The team returned to work the morning after his death. That is how he would have wanted it. We have already despatched three moortis to Gujarat, Kolhapur and Uttarakhand. All his orders will be delivered in time."
 
 Reshma stoically said to reporters, "His sudden passing has shattered us. But the time for mourning is not now. We will allow ourselves to grieve only after his unfinished work is complete." 
 
