NAGPUR: The experience inside a biscuit factory is a unique one, something that cannot be described in mere words. And if it happens to be one of the oldest and trusted biscuit brands, it can take elders down memory lane and give immense joy to the young ones, courtesy the taste.

 The Nagpur For Kids (NFK) Club members visited  , one of the   production units in the city, at   on Sunday morning.
 
 The tour began at 10am from   office, Times Square, Dharampeth.. The children were ushered in promptly and received by the coordinator of the factory, Mr Ajay Petkar who escorted them to the auditorium.
 
 Excited as much as they were seeing the giant screen inside, it was nothing compared to what was yet to come. The kids were shown a beautiful, animated video which explained the history of the Parle brand and its various products- biscuits, flavoured candies, chocolate biscuits and more.
 
 Various products are mixed to prepare the dough.It is then passed through different hi-tech machines where it is finally baked into different shapes, the video explained. It also showed some funny advertisements that used to appear on televisions, like the funny ‘kacchaa’ mango photocopy one and the little kid who wins a bicycle race after he pops a mango bite in his mouth. The video ended to a loud applause by the children.
 
 “The idea behind showing them the clip first is that they understand the basic process of biscuit making. This way, it helps to understand when they see the actual process,” said Petkar.
 
 Next up in line was the factory tour and the children were taken inside the baking premises. Built like a gallery, the working area was on the ground floor with railings all around from where the machines could be seen. More than 200 workers were hard at work, right from mixing the raw material, shaping & heating and then finally cooling the biscuits.
 
 The children were pointed out the different furnaces and packing unit.
 
 They were told that the total conveying system of material and finished products is automated using conveyors.
 
 Informed Petkar, “The workers, who are almost 550 in numbers work 24*7 at the factory except for Wednesdays to make almost 70 tonnes of the biscuit daily. And we are glad that we have been able to keep the quality of our products intact.”
 
 The children were handed a couple packets of freshly baked Parle-G on their way out, and one must say, the Sunday had been one of their bests with their favourite baked companion!
 
 
