HYDERABAD: Even as the state is going hammer and tongs against drug peddlers and high profile junkies, yet another case of drug bust came to light on Wednesday. 

 Task Force sleuths arrested nine persons, including two Nigerians, in two separate cases at Masab Tank and Banjara Hills. 
 
 The accused were identified as Chika Ohycowusi alias Jack and Lucky Bongani, both Nigerians, Raghu,   Reddy, Abhinav Mahender, V Mallikarjun Rao and Christopher H H Giddens. Police seized 300 grams of cocaine, 42 grams of   and three LSD biscuits from the six accused. Mahender and Mallikarjun allegedly used dark web, 'Tor Browser' to purchase drugs. 
 
 According to police, another accused, Vamshidar got addicted to drugs while working at a call centre in Bengaluru in 2015. He returned to the city in April this year. 
 
 During his stay in Bengaluru, he had gone to Gokarna in Karnataka and met Christopher who introduced Vamshidar to dealers in LSD and other drugs. He sold the same at higher prices. 
 
 To continue the business in Hyderabad, he got in touch with Mahender and Mallikarjun and sold drugs to various customers and his friends. 
 
 "Vamshidar was a frequent visitor to Goa to get drugs at cheaper rate. There he met Jack. He would carry the drugs in eye drop containers, biscuits or sugar cubes. We seized three Marie Gold biscuits dipped in LSD," said Task Force inspector Venkat Reddy. 
 
 Task Force sleuths got a tip-off on Wednesday about Vamshidar meeting the accused including Christopher and Jack to purchase more drugs, and apprehended all of them near Ohris, Banjara Hills. During investigation, police found that the accused would visit different pubs, hotels, and restaurants in Goa, Mumbai and Hyderabad scouting for customers. 
 
 "This is an interstate drug racket, so we have also contacted Mumbai and Goa police for further investigation," said Limba Reddy, DCP, Task Force. 
 
 In a separate case, West Zone Task Force police arrested three persons and seized 11 LSD bots and three cell phones. The accused are P Revanth, Irfan Najeeb Khan and Zain Khan. 
 
 "Revanth also would buy charas (hashish), cocaine, MDMA and LSD bots at cheap rates in Goa and sell the same to customers in Hyderabad at higher rates to earn quick money," said the inspector.
 
