MUMBAI: The Centre is finally believed to have selected Mumbai’s fabulous   and   district around the   to be nominated as a   by   for 2017-18.

 State urban development secretary Nitin Kareer said the Union ministry of culture has sounded out the state government about Mumbai’s nomination, although an official announcement is awaited.
 
 If the Paris-based Unesco (United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization) approves it, this will be the third world   site in Mumbai after the Elephanta Caves and Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus (formerly Victoria Terminus).
 
 The heritage dossier has been prepared by conservation architect Abha Narain Lambah and supported by several citizens’ associations at Churchgate, the Oval and Cooperage areas, and Nariman Point.
 
 More than a badge of honour or the prestige of being acknowledged by Unesco’s World Heritage List, the inclusion of Mumbai’s Victorian and Art Deco district will help raise awareness among citizens and tourists, and be a step towards preserving the city’s heritage.
 
 “The advantage of a World Heritage tag is that it draws high-end tourists, attracts private funds and grants for the upkeep of these buildings. It also pitches Mumbai as one of the great global financial-cum cultural cities,” said Lambah.
 
 Chief minister Devendra Fadnavis was one of those who pushed for the proposal with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. In a letter to the PM, he said the site is “extremely unique”, with the finest Neo-Gothic and Art Deco buildings. Actor Amitabh Bachchan too had pitched in for the nomination dossier, Victorian Gothic and Art Deco Ensemble, Mumbai. The nominated district covers an area of 163 acres, including the 22-acre Oval Maidan.
 
 The heritage precinct in south Mumbai is already protected under the city’s heritage regulations. Construction started from 1860 onwards after the old fort walls were torn down under the governorship of Sir Bartle Frere.
 
 The Unesco-nominated property straddles two heritage precincts—the Fort Precinct and the Marine Drive Precinct—which include a collection of 19th century Victorian structures and 20th century Art Deco buildings. “They are conjoined physically and visually through a planned urban alignment by means of the historic open space of the Oval Maidan,” said the dossier.
 
 Some of the prominent buildings include the Bombay high court building, university campus, Rajabai clock tower, old secretariat building, Western Railway headquarters, David Sassoon library, Watson’s Hotel and the museum (Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Vastu Sangrahalaya).
 
 “Mumbai’s architecture was built on the foundations of public subscription, entrepreneurship and philanthropy. The auction of land parcels as well as Indian philanthropy funded institution building. Parsi industrialists and entrepreneurs, Hindu and Jain bankers and traders, Muslim and Baghdadi Jewish merchants, Armenians, Salsette Christians and the English, invested in the future of this emerging city,” the dossier said.
 
 “The architecture blended European planning with the politically motivated choice of Mughal and Indo-Islamic elements in an attempt to create a fusion that came to be known as the Indo-Saracenic style. This formed the transitional phase into the 20th century,” said the executive summary report, which was submitted to the Centre. Mumbai’s Art Deco development too, it said, was manifested through its iconic cinema halls and apartment buildings.
 
 “This is an exemplar of an urban ensemble that has retained its historic integrity and its skyline. The buildings are restored and in good shape, demonstrating Mumbai’s heritage regulations,” said Lambah. The buildings of the high court, old secretariat, public works department offices, Institute of Science and Central Telegraph Office are individually listed as Grade II A heritage structures. This designation provides for strict control on any external change, but allows for minor internal changes since the buildings are in active use.
 
 
