PUNE: In a shocking incident, a 23-year-old female IT employee working at  ' Hinjewadi IT park campus was found murdered inside the office on Sunday evening. 

 According to police, the woman was strangulated to death with a computer cable.The deceased has been identified as K Rasila Raju. The systems engineer was originally from Kerala but was working at the firm's office in Phase II of Hinjewadi IT park. According to police, she had come to the office on Sunday to work on a project.
 
 Assistant Commissioner of Police Vaishali Jadhav told Pune Mirror, "She was working on a project along with two other employees of the company from Bangalore office. While the other two employees were coordinating with her online from Bangalore, she was present inside the office."
 
 Police suspect that she was killed at around 5 pm but the murder came to light only at around 8 pm when a security guard found her body lying on the floor in the conference room.
 
 "Her manager was trying to get in touch with Rasila but after 5 pm she did not respond to any call. After trying to call her for some time, the manager contacted security personnel and asked them to check if Rasila was at her desk. When the security guard came to her desk, he spotted Rasila's body lying on the floor," Jadhav said.
 
 Infosys released a statement today saying it is doing all it can to help police with their investigation.
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 While cops are yet to ascertain what led to her murder, they have zeroed down on the prime suspect Bhaben Sailcia, a 26-year-old from Assam who worked as a watchman in the office. Cops were able to ascertain that he was the only one who had accessed the room where she was sitting alone and working. She had come to work at 2 pm and was to work till 11 pm. 
 
 Cops say that around 5 pm she stopped responding to her team members. Concerned about her the Bengaluru team members alerted the security who found her lying in a pool of blood on the floor. She had been killed between 5pm and 6.30 pm.
 
 The suspect's shift got over at 6.30 pm and he left the campus like any other day. He went to his house, packed his bag and left for Mumbai in a bid to escape.
 
 By the time cops reached the crime scene it was around 8.30 pm. It took them a couple of hours to figure from access codes to the room and CCTV footage of the building that Bhaben was their man. They formed teams and started looking for the suspect who by now had left the city. However they were able to track his mobile number and trace his movement constantly. 
 
 By around 3 am a team of cops from Hinjewadi was able to nab Bhaben from CST from where he was intending to head to his hometown in Assam. It is. It clear what led to Rasila's murder.
 
 The cops had alerted her family who was on its way to Pune. Her friends with whom she used to live were called to Infosys campus to identify her. They told the cops that she was an extremely jovial person who got along with everyone.
 
 Her friends like many others on Infosys campus were shaken by the incident. Most could be heard talking about an employee had been murdered inside the office and too in a secure zone which can be accessed only by select few.
 
 This is the second murder of a female IT professional in Pune within a span of two months. In December, Capgemini employee Antara Das was murdered outside her office in Talawade area. 
 
 
 
