SUKMA: As security agencies analyze the deadly   in which 25   troopers were killed, startling information has come out that the   had given specific warning about the impending strike, including the likely location, which was either ignored or not passed on to the men on the ground.
 
 Highly placed sources have told TOI that the alert was passed to the ministry of home affairs on March 20, 35 days before the ambush. 
  
 In the shocked aftermath of the ambush, the massacre of 24 CRPF jawans was attributed to intelligence failure. Many officials in central security forces believe that the Sukma attack was to some extent a result of Chhattisgarh Police intelligence failure.
  
 Sources, however, tell TOI that IB had definite information of likely attacks and passed it to two senior officials of home ministry. But whether this information was relayed to security commanders in   is not clear. 
  
 According to sources, IB had warned that   were carrying out recce in Chintagufa in preparation for an attack. The ambush site, Burkapal, is in the same region.
  
 Soon after the attack, there were confused voices from CRPF and police on whether there had been an intelligence alert. However the manner in which CRPF jawans were caught off-guard suggests the IB warning was either not taken seriously or did not reach the boots on the ground. 
  
 MHA has sought a report from the CRPF to review the circumstances under which jawans fell into the deadly trap. Nearly 100 jawans were tasked to provide security for road construction near Chintagufa-Burkapal-Bheji axis, but they were split up into smaller teams. Two of them were ambushed. 
  
 A few scholars, who are in the region to study the strategy of security forces and Maoists point out that CRPF jawans are often sent to a place without properly briefing them about the area. “The amount of briefing has to be enhanced. It is very necessary to focus on morale of security forces. Many of the jawans we interacted during our studies had demanded better weapons and safety equipment besides better training on anti-Maoist psychological operations,” says Dr Varnika Sharma, a researcher on Maoist and military psychology. Dr Sharma is also a post-doctoral fellow of Defence Studies, ICSSR. 
  
 The scholars contest CRPF claims that the April 24 ambush was U-shaped, pointing out that direct exchange of fire between CRPF and Maoists would not have been possible. “A U-shaped attack is not viable because it would expose one row of Maoists to their own on the other side and they would have ended up killing one another in the chaos that ensues in ambushes,” said Dr Girish Kant Pandey, former head of department of defence studies in Government Science College, Raipur. Dr Pandey fears there was a violation of SOP of security protocol in most of the ambushes that ended in large scale fatalities.
 
