DEHRADUN: The Uttarakhand forest department has started counting of tigers in Corbett landscape-- which includes   and Kalagarh forest division. The highlight of this year’s tiger estimation is that the forest department staff is carrying out the entire exercise on its own, without the help of   (WII).
 Camera traps have been fitted and over 650 employees of the forest department are pressed into service to count the big cats.
  The nation-wide counting of tigers in 2014 had put the number of the feline in Corbett at 340. This year’s exercise may take about two to three months to complete, officials said.
   , divisional forest official of Kalagarh, said: “The camera traps have been installed in Corbett and Kalagarh as per the guidelines of  . For one month, we will collect data about the number of tigers, prey base, corridor identification and status of habitat. It will then be analysed by the forest officials and wildlife experts.”
  The official said that this exercise will make the state forest department staff independent and they will be able to carry out future counting on their own.
  “Since this exercise is being conducted by the forest staff only, without any aid of WII or any other agency, so this will eventually help in capacity building of the frontal staff such as forest guard and foresters, who will then become master trainer for future estimation exercises,” Pandey said.
  The annual monitoring and estimation process of tigers of Rajaji Tiger Reserve has also begun.
  Sanatan, director of Rajaji reserve, told TOI: “Some 250 to 300 camera traps have been installed in eastern part of Rajaji forest, followed by around 25 cameras in western part. We will collect the data for one month and the result will be out by March end.”
  WII scientists have claimed that four out of five tiger skins seized by the police from poachers in Haridwar in March last year were of Corbett tigers.
  According to the latest official count, India is home to 2,226 tigers, representing 70% of the global population of the endangered species.
