NOIDA: The police on Saturday registered a case of murder against unidentified persons for the death of a  ,   (22). 

 The family members of the victim visited Sector 20 police station and filed a complaint following which the case was registered.
 
 The investigations have revealed that Pravish did not disappear mysteriously, but was rushed to the district hospital by the event organiser of the September 8 concert that he had come to attend when his condition deteriorated that night. Dr Amit, who was deployed at the Expo Mart that night, said Pravish had consumed liquor and was found unconscious at 9.30 pm.
 
 “Some guards brought him to the medical camp at Expo Mart. His heartbeat was rapid and he was not in his senses. There was no relative or any known person with him. We sent him to the district hospital in Sector 30 in an ambulance at that time,” he said.
 
 Pravish was brought to the district hospital by 10.30 pm. In the hospital, he was registered as ‘unknown’ since he was not able to state his name. Dr Amit said his team members then returned to Greater Noida.
 
 The student was administered medicines and showed restlessness at frequent intervals. At 6.30 am on September 9, Pravish left the hospital premises without telling anyone. However, around 5pm, his body was found near the car market in Nithari. Police are investigating what transpired in those 10 hours between the time he fled the hospital till he was found dead.
 
 Phanjoubam Linthoingambi, Pravish’s cousin, said in the police complaint that according to the postmortem report, the cause of death was ‘shock and haemorrhage due to head injury. “He also had multiple abraded contusions and swelling on his body. This clearly showed that there was criminal intent behind his death,” he said. 
 
 SSP Love Kumar said the police team again visited the spot where the body was found. “A car market and meat market are in the area. The police questioned some locals who confirmed they had seen the boy in the afternoon. A rickshaw-puller and two other persons confirmed that when they asked the boy about his condition, he said a Royal Enfield bullet had hit him,” Kumar said.
 
 Kumar said the accident may have led to the injury resulting in Pravish’s death. He added that a case of murder and causing disappearance of evidences against unknown persons under sections 302 and 201 of IPC was registered at Sector 20 police station.
 
 The SSP has designated Abhinandan, CO Noida I, to head the police investigation while GB Nagar CMO Anurag Bhargava will probe if there was any medical negligence by the district hospital staff.
 
 The Northeast Forum For International Solidarity (NEFIS) on Saturday submitted a memorandum to the home ministry seeking a CBI probe.  , convener of NEFIS, claimed the UP Police’s inquiry is bound to be biased since its own personnel are implicated in the case (5 cops have been suspended so far). “We have intensified our efforts to seek the Manipur government’s intervention in the case,” Khumukcham said. The family also submitted a memorandum to the Manipur CM.
 
 
