Kiranraj K may be debuting as a director for the big screen, but his work so far has put him in good stead, so much so that he has penned a rather challenging script for his first project. Take, for instance, his short film   — a dialogue-less story featuring a four-year-old boy and a four-year-old girl. Or, for that matter, his segment of story in the yet to be released Kathasangama — a silent short film featuring   and Hariprriya. Kiranraj has been associate director for Ricky and  , and there began the process of turning director for this film that is being produced by Rakshit Shetty’s   and GS Gupta.

 “I had mentioned this story line to Rakshit after we shot Kirik Party and he told me he would produce it right away,” says Kiranraj. So what got Rakshit excited? Here’s the gist: Lead actor   plays a loner in 777 Charlie. “This is a journey of sorts of a depressed, short-tempered guy who works as a vehicles manufacturer. He comes across a abandoned street dog — a labrador — and that is when his life takes a different turn. It is a journey of self realization, but it is more about the bond between human beings and dogs,” explains Kiranraj. Here is where his experience of working with just emotions to tell a story comes into play. “Kathasangama is a compilation of seven stories, and my story in that features a dog, in addition to the two lead actors. We chose an actual street dog for that and I fully understand how challenging it is to have a dog play a role in a film. But I am prepared. For the promo posters of this film, we shot with a trained lab. But we will begin shooting only in January as we need three months for training. We have identified a lab puppy, who, along with Aravinnd, will be trained. While the dog will be trained to react to commands, Aravinnd will be simultaneously trained to give those commands. The plan is to get the two to bond so well that what you eventually see on screen will be completely authentic,” explains the director, who hails from  , where he has grown up in farms surrounded by animals of all kinds.
 
 
  
 
 Needless to say, all the legal procedures involved in shooting with animals will be followed to the T. Kiranraj adds, “We see so many Hollywood films featuring animals and we know the kind preparation they undertake before they shoot their films. And we intend to do the same too, which is why we have so much time dedicated to training.”
 
 What would be the inspiration behind choosing to can a film like this? “I had read an article in a newspaper about an incident which sparked the idea for this film. I know that this story will appeal to all age groups, and those who love animals will love the film; those who are not too fond of animals, will fall in love with both animals and this film,” states Kiranraj. We look forward to that!
 
