NEW DELHI: Gujarat's   has on Sunday arrested two suspected   terrorists, who were allegedly planning to carry out serial blasts at some religious places in   in the next couple of days. 

 The two, who are brothers, were in touch with ISIS operatives overseas through social media, police said, adding they have recovered bomb-making material from the two.
 
 The two, arrested from Rajkot and   were allegedly planning to carry out blasts at religious places like Chotila.
 
 "Acting on specific information, the Gujarat ATS team has nabbed two suspected terrorists having links with ISIS," Anti-Terrorism Squad's Deputy Superintendent of Police K K Patel said.
 
 "They are siblings, identified as Waseem and Naeem Ramodiya. While Waseem was arrested from Rajkot, his brother was arrested from Bhavnagar," he said.
 
 "The ATS formed two teams last night and nabbed them," he further said.
 
 "They were ready with all material to make bombs and were planning to carry out blasts at religious places in the next two days," Patel said, claiming that a major terrorist attack has been averted with their arrest.
 
 Gun powder, local made bombs with battery and masks to hide their identity were recovered from the two men, Patel said, adding the police also seized computers in which objectionable and prohibited content was found.
 
 "They were in touch with ISIS operatives outside the country through Twitter and other social media networks," the officer said.
 
 ATS Superintendent of Police Himanshu Shukla said, "It is true that Chotila Temple was on their target. But we cannot give further details at this stage keeping in mind further investigations." 
 
  Earlier this month, the NIA arrested a Kerala resident, in connection with its probe in alleged ISIS module.
 
 Last year, the 
  in Sikar district who was involved in collecting and transferring funds for the terror organisation from Dubai.
 
 Meanwhile, Indian doctor K Ramamurthy who landed in India after being 
  , said that the terror outfit is keeping an eye on the development of education and economy in India and wants and wants to push their ideology in the country.
 
 Rescued from the Islamic State prison on February 14, Dr Ramamurthy said that the members of the terror outfit are educated youngsters and know everything about India's growth.
 
 "These ISIS people are well-educated youngsters and they do know about India and its development and how it has developed in education, economy and everything else. They are interested in India. But, I did understand that they wanted to spread the ideology of their nation to other parts of the world, including India," he said. 
 
 
 
 
