NEW DELHI: Eight months on, the murder mystery of a   with a tattoo on her hand reported from   adjacent to   in south Delhi continues to flummox investigators. While police have   the woman, and perhaps the killer, missing links have made the case complex.

 The woman has been identified as 25-year-old Rizwana alias Salma from Haridwar. Strangely, the tattoo on her left hand read “Ajay Vijay Jyoti Annu I love you”. Her family is unable to explain this. Salma’s friend Ravi and an unidentified godman are the prime suspects, sources said. Both have been absconding since the murder.
 
 On October 20, 2016, police found the woman’s body in a pink salwar and a bell, vermilion and other articles used in puja/yajna were found at the crime scene. Human sacrifice due to superstition has been the line of probe since the start.
 
 The victim was identified through an extensive verification process, including browsing data of missing people across India on zonal integrated police network (ZIPNET) and door-to-door inquiries. The description of the woman was uploaded by the south district police on ZIPNET and hue-and-cry noticed were circulated. Three teams were formed to crack the case.
 
 The breakthrough came when one of Salma’s relatives living in Nathupura contacted the cops and gave her details. He also gave them her address in Hardiwar after which cops went there and met her family. They also met her former husband, Samir, with whom she had a child.
 
 Cops found that Salma had been living with a man named Ravi in Delhi. She also frequented temples with a godman and had adopted the alias of “Bhairavi”. Her family and ex-husband had cut ties with her.
 
 When Salma’s body was found last year, cops found her face completely crushed with rocks and burnt. Her height was measured at five feet and she had a wheatish complexion. The police had assumed that the tattoo could be the names of her siblings or children, which would help them crack the case. A bell, some utensils and a photo of goddess Durga found near the body indicated that a puja was held at the crime scene, a source had then told TOI.
 
 The body was found lying in a shrub by a man who was visiting the DDA park. Crime and forensic teams then visited the spot and evidence like fingerprints and footprints were lifted. The homicide team had said that the murder was probably committed 2-3 days ago as the body was decomposed. An FIR was registered at Hauz Khas police station.
 
 DCP (south) Ishwar Singh confirmed to TOI that the woman has been identified. “Teams are trying to trace Ravi,” he said.
 
