PANAJI: Stakeholders affected by the   verdict that orders the closure of bars and liquor-vending outlets along national and state highways have come together to file a review petition in the Supreme Court.

 Several associations have organized themselves under the umbrella of  , with veteran hotelier Gaurish Dhond adding that the newly-formed group would file a review petition in the apex court.
 
 Ruing the state’s delay in filing a review petition before the Supreme Court, the association expressed hope that the incoming state government would take the initiative to seek a stay order.
 
 “This (filing a petition) is not just an option for us, it is a requirement as it is a matter of our bread and butter. We are studying the issue before we file an appeal, but we would like that after March 11, when the results are declared, that the government files a review petition and makes us party to it instead of us filing an appeal with the government as a party. The government should at least ask for time,” president of   Dattaprasad Naik said.
 
 Goa Hotel and Restaurant Owners Association, Bar Owners Association of Goa and the Goa Liquor Traders Association have come together to form the umbrella group. The group suggested that the state government could come out with an excise or liquor policy that would circumvent the Supreme Court’s order.
 
 Speaking to the press on behalf of all the members, Dhond also urged the government to consider de-notifying state highways and city roads in the state which are still known as national highways despite PWD constructing bypasses that are for all purposes considered as National Highways.
 
 “All states and Union territories shall forthwith cease and desist from granting licences for the sale of liquor along national and state highways. The prohibition contained in above shall extend to and include stretches of such highways which fall within the limits of a municipal corporation, city, town or local authority,” the three bench judge headed by Chief Justice Thakur said, in the December 15 judgement.
 
 Dhond said that the judgment, if implemented in Goa, would lead to tremendous loss of revenue since the order would lead to the closure of nearly 70% of the restaurants and bars in the state.
 
 “It serves as revenue generation. The states which are the most affected, which are tourist oriented, must come together,” Dhond said.
 
 Goa Highway Affected Liquor Vendors Association has already contacted the Federation of Hotels and Restaurants Association of India for support and guidance.
 
