THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Union minister of state for tourism  , here on Monday , urged the state government to recoup 1,000 acres of government land from Tata company for setting up mega tourism amenities.

 Speaking at a `meet the press' programme at Press Club here, he opined that it was quite possible for the government to take over land sufficient for developing the infrastructure in the hill town, which sees the largest tourist inflow in the state.
 
 “We need to attract more foreign as well as domestic tourists. Apart from the natural scenic beauty , our tourist destinations don't offer anything more. The tourism activities in Munnar ends with the sunset. Everywhere else in the world, evening hours are the most happening,“ noted the minister, adding that it was the prerogative of respective state governments to decide on what kind of entertainment they prefer to provide.
 
 “Munnar should have five star hotels and other facilities.We need avenues where tourists can spend quality time and money . It would in turn create more jobs,“ he said.
 
 “While 220 lakh tourists visit a single tourism centre in Paris and 240 lakh people visit   every year, the num ber of international tourists to India is just 88 lakh. India, one of the most beautiful and diversely-rich land on earth, should be seen by more people.The state also needs to improve to become number one in the country ,“ he said.
 
 Instead of handing over parcels of land to private companies to develop amenities on their own, there should be a master plan for development of facilities that function in harmony with the nature, the minister elaborated.
 
 He said the state has been asked to submit a comprehensive proposal for the facelift of all beaches. “The proposal has to be comprehensive and the money allotted should be spent on time. That's the only condition. At present, the pace of quality spending of central government assistance is not up to the mark. It's high time the state looked at the low tourist inflow to destinations like  ,“ Kannanthanam said.
 
 Terming the criticism by senior   leaders like Yaswant Sinha as the latter's personal vendetta campaign against finance minister Arun Jaitley, he said the demonetisation did not affect the tourism sector in the country . “The sector has recorded 15% increase in the arrival of foreign tourists during the period,“ he said.
 
 Strongly defending the Modi government, he said the recent hike of cooking gas price would not affect the poor. “Of the increased amount of Rs 49, those who are eligible for subsidy would get Rs 47.50 reimbursed in their bank accounts.Slight economic slump is natural when revolutionary decisions are taken by the government for the inclusive development of the society ,“ he noted.
 
 Kannantham, who is also the Union minister of state for electronics and IT, said the IT companies in Kerala should focus more on product development and projects based on artificial intelligence and big data analytics.
 
