NAGPUR: Baffled with rise in crimes city police has changed its strategy to improve policing in CM’s hometown. Under the guidance of city police commissioner K Venkatesh, Sadar ACP Somnath Waghchaure has started ‘Activity-based patrolling’ which is at present under experiment in ‘SADAR’ police station limits. The initiative, taken by ACP and senior PI Sedam, is to optimally utilize available resources to prevent offences and improve security. The practice has started from December 16 this month.

 “We have equally distributed the already available three four-wheelers and six bikes in each beat come under the jurisdiction of Sadar police station namely Sadar, Chaoni and Gaddogodam, ”said Waghchaure. ACP has prepared the list of crowded points, including jogging tracks, schools, hospitals, markets, jewellery shops and others. Experienced staffs from police station conducted the time wise analytical survey in these zones and deployed the beat marshals on their particular peak point added ACP.
 
 Proactive and preventive policing is very strong. As 38 goons were detained under   (MPDA) Act in the city which was the highest in state. 23 gangs slapped with MCOCA and 72 notorious criminals have been externed from the city limits this year. Similarly, the city police stations have the higher number of registration of offences under Arms Act in the state. Though these major qualitative measures had taken, the city still witnessed the series of six murders in 40 hours which again kept top cops on their toes.
 
 In this latest tactics, ACP, along with his teams, has found out 16 stopping and patrolling points in three beats. Beat marshal would stand in fixed time in front of the main gate of schools, main squares of the vicinity where earlier more offences have been happened. “I personally told cops to share their numbers with school’s principle, trustees of temples, vegetable vendors and too others. Importantly, cops could not change their beat at least for three months which would help them to get familiar to the points and to develop good rapport with the locals,” said Waghchaure. ACP would shortly involve woman cops too in beat marshal.
 
 
