GHAZIABAD: A fully grown male leopard was rescued from a house in Bhopura’s   in Sahibabad in the early hours of Friday, but not before it injured two persons.

 The leopard was first spotted in the residential area, which shares its boundary with Hindon Air Base, on Thursday night around 9pm, creating panic among residents. On being chased by locals, the leopard strayed into a house, where it was confined in a room as some residents locked it from outside. Soon, forest officials reached the spot and cordoned off the area and placed a net at all possible exits.
 
 Before entering the house whose doors were open, the big cat had attacked two persons — a 32-year-old man and a 14-year-old boy — in the neighbourhood. “I had just returned from work and was parking my bike when I suddenly noticed a leopard which swiftly pounced on me,” Bittu (32) said, adding that the leopard sank his teeth in his arms and chest before he managed to flee. He was taken to GTB Hospital and was discharged after first aid.
 
 Akash (14) was the leopard’s second victim who was attacked when he was in the weekly market in the area with his mother. When the leopard pounced on him, he was injured on the back of his head. When Akash lost his balance, passersby charged at the animal with sticks after which it fled to the house that belonged to one Satpal Prajapati. Prajapati’s 21-year-old daughter, Preeti, fled to the terrace when she saw the big cat enter the house.
 
 Hearing Preeti’s cries, some people locked the room which the leopard entered from outside and informed the police and forest department officers. 
 
 Anup Singh, circle officer, Sahibabad, said, “We reached the spot shortly after being informed of a  . Only after forest officers arrived after 4am was it confirmed that it was a leopard”
 
 Forest range officer Asif Shehzad, meanwhile, said, “The animal was tranquilised early on Friday morning and was transported to the Shivalik-Saharanpur forest range.”
 
 BP Singh, district forest officer, said: “The leopard must have strayed from the nearby   forest area either in search of food or must have lost its direction. I feel that members of the cat family have this tendency of losing sense of direction in an overcast condition and this leopard may have wandered in a residential area because of this very reason.”
 
 
