HYDERABAD: Admissions into degree courses is under threat of derailment this year as private college managements and the state government have locked horns over the issue of online admissions.
The   government had introduced the Degree Online Service Telangana (DOST) last year for centralised online admissions into BSc, BCom and BA courses in the state. This year, the   ( ) was supposed to release the degree admission notification on May 5, but was forced to postpone it after private college managements raised several objections to the online system.
 
 To resolve the issue, vicechancellors of state universities and TSCHE officials will meet deputy chief minister and education minister   on Saturday . “During the meeting, we will look into various concerns raised by the colle ge managements and then decide whether to revamp DOST or do away with it. Various other university issues will also be discussed,“ said T Papi   , chairman of TSCHE.
 
 Of the 1,300 private degree colleges in Telangana, 1,080 ha ve raised objections over online admissions, terming DOST `unproductive'. “The software is not authentic and favours only government colleges. Even if a student has selected a private college as hisher priority, a seat is allotted in a government college,“ said Ramana Reddy , president of Telangana Degree and PG Colleges Association.
 
 Colleges also opposing the early admission schedule and want the admissions to be conducted only after the conclusion of all common entrance tests. Last year, nearly 1.40 lakh seats of the total 3.80 lakh degree seats on offer were left vacant, with students later opting to join professional courses.
 
 “Before DOST system was put in place, college had the right to conduct admissions on first-come-first-serve basis. But now everything is centralised, causing immense inconvenience to colleges,“ said Reddy .
 
 The fee reimbursement issue is also another prickly is sue. “The state government has not linked students enrolled last year with ePass, due to which degree colleges have not received nearly `500 crore fee reimbursement dues,“ said Laxma Reddy , director of Association for Strengthening of Private Initiative in Rural Education.
 
