GURUGRAM:   International School’s Bhondsi campus opened for classes on Monday morning for the first time since the horror of September 8 when Class 2 student   was murdered in the washroom. But a low turnout of students and jitters among parents about the safety of children forced the Haryana government to shut it for another week.

 The next seven days will be used to upgrade safety in the school and address parents’ concerns, a senior official in the Gurgaon administration, which has been tasked with the running the school for three months, said. Ryan will reopen for classes on September 25. 
 
 Of the 1,000 students enrolled in the school, only 250 showed up on Monday. Just four students from Pradhyumn’s class 2A came to school. 
 
 Some parents said they wanted out and had sought transfer certificates because they just could not bring themselves to send their children to the school any more. Other parents who had turned up with their kids said they had instructed their children not to loiter alone in school while some others expressed their helplessness at being unable to shift their kids to other schools mid-session.
 
 Darshan Kaur, grandmother of Class VII student Dipanshi Verma, said, “We have told Dipanshi not to wander about in the hallway, or go to the washroom, alone.” Abhijeet Chaudhary, a neighbour of the bereaved Thakur family, said, “I had no choice but to bring my son to this school. Had the administration not taken over, I wouldn’t have done that.”
 
 Several parents said the state government’s decision to take over the school for three months was reassuring but the school had to do more. The school, meanwhile, announced two new faces to head its faculty Sabu Atthikal (principal) and Sandya Lal Das (vice-principal).
 
 Parents were also uneasy over the fact that they had received only one message of assurance on the Ryan Parent Portal since Pradhyumn’s murder. It said the school had appointed a safety and security officer and that it will issue all parents an ID, install additional CCTV cameras, appoint maids to cover washrooms and premises etc.
 
 Sanjay Jhangra, father of Class IX student Tanisha, said, “Sending one message does not assure us of our kids’ safety.” Subhash Garg who witnessed Pradhyumn being carried to hospital, said, “New principal, vice-principal, more CCTV cameras — does that ensure our kids are safe? There’s still no parents’ association in the school.”
 
 Some parents, though, expressed satisfaction at the security measures taken by school authorities. Arvind, father of Class IX student Rakhi, said, “I’m comfortable with the measures the school has taken — appointing permanent maids for washrooms and counsellors for students etc.”
 
 Pradhyumn’s father Barun expressed unhappiness at the school being reopened. “The CBI has been asked to look into the case. What was the hurry to open now?” His advocate, Sushil Tekriwal, said, “Forensic, scientific and microscopic evidences which may or may not be there is not the issue. CBI has to scrutinise the crime scene. What’s the government’s intent? I’m contemplating all legal possibilities.”
 
 Deputy commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh said a cordon had been thrown around the crime scene and the ground-floor washroom where the murder was committed was inaccessible. 
 
 Madan Kumar, father of Class V student Manas Kumar, said, “I don’t think my son is safe here. How long will the measures seen today last? Will new guards and maids disappear once the media heat is off? Can parents be given right to monitor CCTV cameras?” 
 
 He said he had come to seek a transfer certificate. “The school can’t have become safe in one week. I dread that if I send my son to this school again, some mishap might happen and no one will care to do anything, and later play a blame game. I’ve come to take a TC. I want to enroll my son in a school which cares for kids,” Kumar added.
 
 The district administration later denied that any transfer requests had been made. “There were no requests for TCs on Monday. We’ll ensure the school runs smoothly. The administration will build confidence among parents,” said Vinay Pratap Singh, deputy commissioner (DC), who took over the administration of the school on Monday, as per order of the Haryana directorate of school education.
 
 “Attendance was low, with around 250 kids coming to school today. Students are being counselled to help them overcome the trauma. I had a discussion with parents. All of them were concerned about security, but other issues also came up. I’ll hold another meeting with parents on September 23,” Singh added.
 
 
