AHMEDABAD: A 65-year-old tribal man — one of the five accused in an alleged case of cow slaughter at   village of Poshina taluka of   district — died in police custody late on Thursday night, said police officials. Human rights activists suspect the   was caused by police brutality during remand.

 The deceased, identified as Kodar Gamar, aged around 65, was accused in a case of cow slaughter registered on April 26 at Kheroj police station in Sabarkantha. According to the FIR of the case, “Gamar, his son Abu Gamar, Lekha Bhambhi, Mashrubhai and a Muslim youth whose name and address is not known, were accused in of an offence under the Gujarat Animal Protection (Amendment) Act 2011.”
 
 P L Mall, superintendent of police in Sabarkantha district, said Gamar died in police custody and an inquiry by a magistrate will be conducted in the case.
 
 “Gamar, who belongs to the tribal community, was sent to three-day remand on May 2, along with two other accused persons. On May 3, his health began to deteriorate at about 5.30pm. He was going to toilet frequently as he was not well. In the evening, he went to bathe but complained of uneasiness after having his bath. When police learned about his condition through other accused, Gamar was taken to a primary health centre in   and was later admitted to Civil hospital in Khedbrahma town. When his condition did not improve, he was on Thursday, shifted to Civil hospital in Ahmedabad where he breathed his last at 10.30pm,” Mall told TOI. Mall said that police have CCTV footage showing Gamar falling unconscious and a magisterial inquiry has been ordered in this case as it is technically a custodial death.
 
 Sources in Civil hospital said the postmortem was conducted on Friday and the report will be submitted to Sabarkantha police on Saturday. Bharat Solanki, an associate of Gamar said. “Cops first told me that Gamar had died after being beaten while in custody. Later, I was told that he died after sustaining a head injury after falling in the bathroom”. Kaushik Parmar, a civil rights activist, said, “The national or state human rights commission should intervene and order a fair probe as we suspect foul play.”
 
