NAGPUR: It is crucial that the youth understand the difference between love and infatuation. Otherwise, life may become difficult, said Dr  , chancellor of Krishna Institute of Medical Sciences, Karad. He was speaking at a seminar organized by   at Maharana Pratap Smruti Mandir, Shankar Nagar, on Thursday.

 The topic of the seminar was ‘Infatuation and effects in the context of love and attraction among youth’, which, according to Dr Mishra, should be discussed freely and in a serious manner. Experts focused on making a distinction between love and infatuation as confusion, if any, leads to personal and social complications.
 
 Present on the occasion were head of   Pramod Sharma, counsellor Sapna Sharma and college principal Keshav Patil.
 
 Citing a research conducted by the  , Dr Mishra said, “Love is drug response,” considering that neurotransmitter dopamine is released in the brain when a person is in love or under the influence of a drug giving a feeling of elation. “Taken in the right doses, dopamine gives a person intense energy, exhilaration, ability to focus and promptness in claiming reward,” said Dr Mishra. According to him, analysing the brain map of successful individuals will show the hormone’s direct link with these attributes.
 
 Paediatrician Rajiv Mohta spoke on the chemistry behind love and how it happens. “Attraction towards the opposite sex is an example of infatuation and it is a false indication of love,” said Mohta. This infatuation is present in different forms in both sexes, according to him. Women are naturally programmed to get attracted to emotional responses while men are lured by physical appearances, he said.
 
 Dr Mohta said that stories and movies which depict the notion of ‘love at first sight’ confuses the youth. 
 
 “Love is a deeper feeling than intimacy,” said sexologist Dr Sanjay Deshpande. His session talked about psychology of love and sex. “The current generation cannot be prohibited from having sex or being in a relationship. However, they should understand that love is a combination of bond and commitment for life,” he said.
 
 Succumbing to social pressure of having a relationship is not the way to go, he said. “One cannot claim to be in love in a causal relationship,” he added.
 
