RAIPUR: Chhattisgarh Pradesh   Committee ( ) president  , his wife and mother on Friday walked into the office of Economic Offences Wing to 'surrender' themselves but later began a sit-in inside the office after EOW officials refused to arrest them in connection with a case registered against them last week on the charge of alleged irregularities in an over two-decade old housing scheme. 

 Baghel, former minister and legislator, his wife Mukteshwari Bai and mother Bindeshwari reached the EOW office, asking officials to record their statements and offering to surrender. After the officials refused to arrest them saying that probe is yet to be started, Baghel and his family refused to leave EOW office, demanding that EOW officials take further action.
 
 Accompanied by senior Congress leaders, including the former leader of the opposition Ravindra Choubey and former minister Mohammad Akbar, Baghel and his family members began a sit-in inside the EOW office, alleging that the case was slapped on them due to political vendetta. Scores of Congress workers gathered outside the EOW office, where the staff tried to prevent them from entering the premises but the crowd pushed the gates open to enter the office. While leader of the opposition T S Singhdeo and other senior party leaders have also reached the EOW office, party men camped outside the office raising slogans against the BJP government.
 
 Meanwhile, PCC chief's mother Bindeshwari complained of uneasiness and was examined by doctors. Later, she was shifted to a nearby hospital, state Congress general secretary Ramesh Varliyani told TOI.
 
 Baghel alleged that that the case was the fallout of a nexus between   and former chief minister   to tarnish the image of the Congress party as the state is scheduled to go for polls by November next year. "Government woke up after 22 years to register cases against my mother and wife. We have all relevant documents. Do they have courage to arrest us? None of the EOW officials turned up for more than one year. I insisted on recording our statements and immediate arrest. They don't have any questions to ask," he told reporters. 
 
 Opposition Congress has been maintaining that the state government had tried to implicate the state Congress chief and his close family members in false cases due to political vendetta by digging up alleged irregularities in a 22-year-old Mansarovar housing scheme of Bhilai. They also said it's a ploy by the BJP government to counter the opposition party, which had raised many issues of corruption -both inside and outside the Vidhan sabha-besides filing petitions in the courts. EOW had booked Baghel, his wife and mother and the then officials of the Special Area Development Authority (SADA) were booked on May 8 for alleged irregularities in allocation of plots under the Mansarovar Scheme in Bhilai in Durg district.
 
 EOW officials say that the state government had received complaints in this regard earlier, following which the district collector concerned was asked to verify them. Based on the report of the collector, the government handed over the matter to the EOW to take further action, they said.
 
 In 1995, Baghel, an MLA from Patan constituency in Durg, was an ex-officio member of the SADA which allotted the land under Mansarovar scheme in Bhilai area during undivided   As per the complaint, Baghel allegedly used his political position to get 12 plots, measuring over 8000 square feet, allotted in the name of his wife and mother. The allegation is that these plots were meant for people belonging to lower income group.
 
 According to the complaint, Baghel's wife and mother had filed applications along with false information regarding their income seeking plots under the scheme. Six plots each were allotted in the name of Baghel's mother and wife in violation of norms, it is alleged. The offence has been registered against Baghel, Mukteshwari Bai, Bindeshwari and few SADA officials under Sections 13 (1) (D) and 13 (2) of Prevention of Corruption Act, 120 (B) (criminal conspiracy) and 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), the official said.
 
 
