PATNA: Toppers of different subjects will be awarded gold medals at the annual alumni meet of the   (NIT-P) on February 5. While chief minister (CM)  , who is an   alumnus, will be the chief guest, former Bihar College of Engineering principal Dr T Prasad will be the guest of honour on the occasion.

 Former students of 1957, 1967 and 1992 batches will celebrate their diamond, golden and silver jubilees respectively. “The most senior alumni — R R Sinha and   — will also be felicitated at the meet which will start at 09.30am and continue till 07.30pm. Several batchmates of the CM will also be present on the occasion,” BCE-NITP Alumni Association secretary Prof Girish Kumar Choudhary said on Friday, adding the institute’s annual magazine would also be released on the occasion. 
 
 A team of doctors from Kankarbagh’s Astha Lok Hospital will organize a health check-up and blood donation camp for the ex-students. The participants will also play a cricket match and enjoy games like musical chair and housie at the meet.
 
 Army Public School: Students of Army Public School-Danapur Cantonment participated in different events like umbrella drill, Shourya drill and martial arts at the school’s annual sports meet on Friday.
 
 Bihar Regimental Centre commandant Brigadier N Raj Kumar, who was the chief guest on the occasion, hoisted the school flag and gave away prizes to the winners of different sports events. While parade commander Master Manu (Class XI) led the march past, the torch relay was conducted by Rashmi Kumari (Class XII), Rohit Kumar (Class XI), Puja Kumari (Class XII) and Bishwajeet (Class XII).
 
 Principal Dhramsheela Pandey read out the school’s annual report at the sports meet whose theme was ‘One team, one spirit, one nation’.
 
 Other guests who attended the event were Veena Raj Kumar, Urmila Joshi, members of the managing committee and principals of different schools.
 
 Notre Dame Academy: The two-day Interschool Girls’ Basketball and Athletics Championship organised by the Parents-Teachers’ Association of Notre Dame Academy on the school campus concluded on Friday. At least 21 city schools participated in the gala sports event.
 
 Prarambhika annual day: Over 600 students from different classes took part in the annual function of Prarambhika at S K Memorial Hall on Friday.
 
 The event, christened ‘Concord-2017’, was based on the theme ‘Europe through our lenses’. Speaking on the occasion, principal Smita Chowdhary said it was important to be inquisitive and curious. “We must not pressurise children to focus only on their studies. Extra-curricular activities should not be ignored,” she added. 
 
 The vote of thanks was proposed by school director Sumit Prakash.
 
 Radiant Int’l sports day: Radiant International School will celebrate its annual sports day on its campus on February 4. Over 3,000 students, parents and several eminent guests are expected to attend the event which will start at 9am.
 
 While Bihar Regimental Centre commandant Brigadier N Raj Kumar will be the chief guest, MTV’s India’s Next Top Model (Season 2) winner Pranati Rai Prakash will be the guest of honour on the occasion.
 
 Don Bosco Academy:   is set to organize a cultural programme for the students on its Digha campus on February 4. IG (operations) Kundan Krishnan will be the chief guest of the event which will start at 4 in the evening. 
 
 
