From the 
 to the more recent 
 , social media has always boosted internet challenges, making them a ‘viral’ phenomenon. However, in the wake of the terrifying 
 game and the suicides associated with it, these internet trends have become highly worrying – especially for parents, since a majority of them are targeted towards tweens and teens. While it’s easy to get caught up in the frenzy surrounding these trends, some of them are   to the point of being fatal, and must be avoided at all costs. We have listed a few here…

 
 
 
 Inspired by Kylie’s plump lips, this challenge was aimed at teens who wished for thicker, more pronounced ones themselves. Participants put a bottle or shot glass over their mouth, sucking out the air inside to create vacuum, which causes their lips to bloat. However, over-enthusiasm and a lack of caution has resulted in several injuries, with teens keeping the glass on for much longer than they should have. The countless bruises and long-term facial damage caused by this fad prove that it should have died out ages ago. 
 
 
 
 
 One could easily say there’s nothing threatening about cinnamon, a common everyday spice. But this challenge proves otherwise. Enlisting people to eat a spoonful of ground cinnamon in under one minute, the task also involves filming oneself while do so and uploading it online. This dry and pungent cinnamon powder obviously results in intense coughing and gagging, but has also occasionally clogged airways and caused lung collapse, making this is a very risky act indeed. 
 
 
 
 
 Another   food challenge, this test involves people eating a whole, incredibly spicy chili pepper (such as the Bhut Jolokia or Trinidad Moruga Scorpion), filming a video of this and uploading it onto the internet. Although it seems entertaining, these peppers are known for their intolerable heat, causing extreme sweating, vomiting and even hallucinations. With several partakers landing in hospitals, this challenge is no light matter. 
 
 
 
 
 Another asinine trend that swept the virtual world, this challenge dared participants to pour salt on parts of their bodies and then place ice on it for as long as possible. A blend of salt and ice is known to be a freezing mixture, with very low temperatures, so this task has repeatedly resulted in second and third degree burns that resemble frostbite. With a potential to cause permanent nerve damage, this meaningless practice must meet an early end. 
 
 
 
 
 Known as the ‘good boys game’ because of its ability to produce a natural 'high' without drugs or alcohol, this game dares players to choke themselves or each other and obstruct blood flow to the brain. They then release it to produce a feeling of 'euphoria'. This act caught on because of curiosity and its novelty factor, but the number of deaths it has caused - especially amongst adolescents - shows it to be a terrifying sport.
 
 
 
 
 The disturbing trend of viral challenges demanding bodily harm seemingly peaked with the 
 , wherein participants douse their bodies with alcohol or flammable liquids, set themselves on fire and post pictures or videos of the repercussions online. This task nearly guarantees at least first degree burns to all players, and additional cases of intense burns and freak accidents make it incomprehensible as to why this challenge is ever undertaken. 
 
 
 
 
 Although this trend was far more popular back in 2014 than it is now, the occasional hospitalizations and deaths brought about by 
 in the recent past confirms that it is still a matter of concern. Much like other food challenges, 
 requires participants to down a pint of alcohol (usually beer) in one gulp, film the deed and post it on the web. Causing overdoses and alcohol poisoning, this hazardous act ought to be weeded out immediately. 
 
 - 
 
 
 
 
 
