BENGALURU: The   seems to have finally settled with the Centre infusing new notes into the system, but the   is grappling with the banned Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 notes, still piling up and stored at currency chests across the state.

 Adding to the problem, the   broke down last month, slowing down the  . RBI sources said the machines were revived a fortnight ago and shredding of the notes has resumed.
 
 “It's an unprecedented situation where millions of notes have piled up and their shredding is taking a considerable time,“ said  , an official from  .
 
 With the RBI yet to destroy the notes in its vaults, it has directed that old notes be kept in the currency chests till fur ther notice. The problem, however, is that the banks managing currency chests have to store the new notes issued to them. “We expect the RBI speeds up the shredding of old notes. We cannot hold the stock for too long time as we have been receiving new notes,“ said a GM of a nationalized bank with chests in Bengaluru and other districts.
 
 Almost all the 270 currency chests in Karnataka are brimming with old notes.A source in the RBI said the central bank has introduced an additional night shift between 8pm and 4am to destroy the old notes. The chests would be asked to send the notes once the note piled up in the RBI vaults are shredded, he added.
 
 The RBI's Bengaluru branch has four Currency Verification and Processing System (CVPS) units, used to dispose of unwanted notes. All the four units, three from Germany-based G&D and an American DLR, were procured 16 years ago, and the source said they are being put to use beyond their warranty period of 10 years. “The machines are under annual maintenance contract by the manufacturers who have advised the RBI to replace them. There is a proposal to buy new machines but the process will take time,“ said a source.
 
 Under prime working conditions, a CVPS with the RBI has the capacity to shred 8 lakh notes a day. However, with banned notes piled up, officials decided to shred 10 lakh pieces per machine in a shift, among other reasons for the machines breaking down, sources said.
 
