PUDUCHERRY: The protests against the ban on jallikattu gained momentum on Wednesday when hundred of students from various colleges,   and neighbouring   districts boycotted classes and gathered at the Anglo French Textiles' (AFT) ground to extend their support for the sport. 

 Several pro-Tamil forums have also given a bandh call on January 20 appealing to all sections of people to extend their support to jallikattu.
 
 Girls from government colleges including professional colleges, boycotted class and took part in rallies. They carried placards with messages supporting jallikattu and raised slogans against the ban on the traditional bull taming event. 
 
 A group of students wore black shirts and came down heavily on the Union and state governments for their failure in take adequate measures in lifting the ban.
 
 The protest by the students in Puducherry was triggered by similar such agitation by the students' community at Marina Beach in Chennai in the last two days. 
 
 They joined the issue without any political interference after a few students' leaders visited the private and government colleges and sought their support. The number of students joined the rally as the day progressed. The students' leaders, a few hardcore supporters of jallikattu from Madurai and southern districts addressed the gathering.
 
 However, they did not entertain political parties to visit the venue. Police did not expect such a massive turn out and chief minister   held discussions with top police officials to strengthen the vigil and security to prevent any untoward incident.
 
 "Puducherry chief minister and Tamil Nadu chief minister must meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi and ensure that the ban is lifted. The Union government must also ensure that there should not be any legal tangle in future," said Mohammed Anas, a third year student of a private engineering college.
 
 Various pro-Tamil outfits formed a joint forum to streamline protests made a bandh call on January 20 seeking immediate ban on People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals' ( ). 
 
 
