NASHIK: As   presents the   on Wednesday, the   (CNP) officials will demand for a provision to  .

 The unit of the Security Printing and Minting Corporation of India Ltd (SPMCIL) under the finance ministry, has been demanding   of the note presses for years now.
 
 Secretary of CNP-ISP Workers Union, Jagdis Godse said, “There is a dire need to modernise the Nashik Note press. Eight units of the SPMCIL need to be modernised and needs worth Rs 4,000 core have to be fulfilled. We want finance minister Arun Jaitley to make a provision for this in the budget.”
 
 Immediate modernisation of the presses will help increase the production capacity. “We had recently urged the union minister of state for finance & corporate affairs, Arjun Ram Meghwal for modernisation of the Nashik CNP. We hope that the government will make financial provisions during the union budget for the financial year 2017-18.” 
 
 Earlier, the Nashik CNP was under the central government and was made corporation after formation of the SPMCIL. Set up in 1925, the CNP houses machineries that are around 30-32 years old. As these machineries have not been overhauled, there is a demand to modernise them by installing advanced technology. Since the last four years, two new proposed lines are also waiting to reach the tendering process. 
 
 Setting up of the two manufacturing lines and other modern facilities will help increase the production from the existing 19 million pieces of currency notes a day to 38 million pieces a day.
 
 “We also want the government to increase the income tax (I-T) exemption limit from Rs 2.5 lakh to Rs 5 lakh. Tax slabs should be reduced and be kept minimum,” said Godse. 
 
 The SPMCIL has a total of nine units across the country, including two each in Nashik and Hyderabad, while one unit each in Mumbai, Kolkata, Noida, Dewas and Hosangabad.
 
 In Nashik, the corporation has two units, the Currency Note Press and India Security Press (ISP). The currency notes with denomination of Rs 10 to Rs 500 are printed at the CNP, while the ISP prints around 150 security documents like stamp papers, Visa and passports.
 
 
