CHENNAI: M   (75) came as a godsend for thousands of protesters whose throats were parched after yelling pro-jallikattu slogans.

 One gulp of the cool, spicy   that he served and you’re good to go at full-throttle for another hour. “Ice more oi! (cool buttermilk),” he let the people know. On any other day, Pichandi he sells the refreshing drink in the busy   station area, but on Thursday he saw business on the Marina.
 
 A native of Vellore district, Pichandi was a farmer. Drought in the 1970s forced his family out of his village and towards Chennai in search of a job and livelihood. One mention of the word ‘bull’ was all he needed to let out a torrent of memories. “The magnificently decorated beings walking down the streets of our villages on jallikattu day was a sight to behold,” he recalls.
 
 Has he ever tried to tame a bull? “No, I never could gather courage to be a participant. But I have forgotten more jallikattu events than many people here have watched.”
 
 A dozen youngsters occupied the space nearby and began raising abusive slogans against Tamil Nadu chief minister O Panneerselvam. Pulling this correspondent away from them, Pichandi said, “Why hurl abuses at the chief minister? He is also a man from rural Tamil Nadu and he grew up with the Jallikattu tradition. He will have more emotions than half the crowd here. What is happening here does not reflect well on Tamil culture,” he said.
 
 Does he not support the protests? “I do. The   should not have ordered a people to refrain from doing what has become a part of their way of life. However, it is not in anyone’s interest to leave aside other important work to come out here and waste everyone’s time. The chief minister cannot act on people’s whims and fancies. He needs to abide by the law,” he added.
 
 Soon, two women walk up to Pichandi and asked for how much he will sell the entire quantity of buttermilk. They settled for Rs 1,000. The women ushered him to the protesters and supplied a tumbler to each. “I could have made Rs 1,500 or so, but it is okay. It is all for a genuine cause,” he said.
 
 
