NEW DELHI:   on Thursday changed its candidates in 14 wards, triggering protests by some of those omitted in the fresh list. 

 AAP did not officially divulge any reason behind this sudden decision. These candidates were chosen after proper screening and approval by AAP’s highest decision-making body and they had also started campaigning. But the same Political Affairs Committee has now decided to replace them. 
 
 “The candidates have been replaced after a review of the ticket list. It is an internal affair of the party and we will not like to discuss it,” said Dileep Kumar Pandey, the party’s Delhi convener. He did not rule out more replacements and claimed that several BJP councillors, who have been denied ticket, were also in touch with AAP. The party had already replaced another candidate after evidence of a criminal case surfaced against him. 
 
 AAP sources, however, said the candidates were replaced because there were complaints of lack of dedicated campaigning though they were chosen long ago. Leaving its key opponents, BJP and Congress, far behind, AAP released its first list of 109 candidates on February 24, much before the announcement of the municipal poll schedule. 
 
 The party replaced seven candidates in the north corporation, five in the south and two in the east corporation. They were selected for Adarsh Nagar, Lakshmi Park, Delhi Gate, Haiderpur, Jama Masjid, Karampura, Vishnu Garden, Khyala, Karawal Nagar (East), Nand Nagri, Sriniwaspuri, Govindpuri, Jaitpur and Kishanganj. 
 
 The sudden decision prompted many of those replaced to arrive at the party office along with supporters but most left unsatisfied even after talking to the seniors. They said they had already invested in the campaign. Rakesh Gupta, a supporter, said workers had got a LED television to telecast the video speech of CM Arvind Kejriwal and other election materials. 
 
 Vijay Pawaria, who was earlier replaced at Manglopuri, said, “The FIR against me is false. I got bail last year. The party has not given me satisfactory reply after cancelling my ticket. This is undemocratic and I stand against it.”
 
 Pandey admitted that there was some unhappiness among the replaced candidates and their supporters but said it was natural. “We respect their sentiment. We will sit together and sort it out,” he added.
 
 
