HYDERABAD: After reportedly being abused by a former   MP at the media point in the Assembly on Thursday, a   inspector took to social media to tell the world about the humiliating incident and his disappointment. 

 When the inspector threatened to resign from service, senior officials took notice and a   was registered against the politician.
 
 P Sudhakar, working at the Kamatipura police station of Hyderabad, is a detective inspector. He was posted at the media point in the Assembly as part of the security set up for the ongoing session. 
 
 When he was standing at the entry, he noticed former Congress MP V Hanumanth Rao walking towards the media point. As former legislators are not allowed here, Sudhakar stopped Rao and explained that he could not enter. 
 
 "As courtesy I saluted the former MP V   and explained that as per the directions given by the chief marshal, former legislators are not allowed to enter the media point. He then abused me using filthy language and pushed me aside," the detective inspectorsaid.
 
 Later in the night, Sudhakar took to social media and wrote about his humiliating experience. The inspector said on facebook: "I am police officer I fell very bad...Today I received comments of Hanumantu... He abused me because I am SC. I shortly going to resign from my job. He abused me using vulgar language and our people also taking it easy (sic)."
 
 The posts are currently not visible on the DI's Facebook page and despite repeated attempts TOI could not contact him. Hyderabad police commissioner M Mahender Reddy said that he has asked the supervisory police officer of the area to conduct an inquiry into the issue.
 
 "I have come to know about the issue and Central Zone   will be conducting an inquiry," the commissioner told TOI. 
 
 When contacted, central zone DCP D Joel Davis said that Sudhakar had approached him and given a written complaint. "I spoke to the inspector. He said that he was upset after a politician used abusive language against him. The inspector has given a complaint in writing saying that the former MP used abusive language against him when he was discharging duties at the media point in Assembly. The same was confirmed by other officials performing duty at the Assembly. The inspector also said that the political leader did not make any negative remarks about his caste," the DCP said.
 
 After Sudhakar gave a complaint, the DCP endorsed it and sent it to Saifabad police station for registration of an FIR. 
 
