NEW DELHI:   admissions to 298 schools on public land in Delhi will now be solely made on the basis of the candidates’ proximity to the institution. According to   released by   on Saturday, applicants who have siblings in schools and stay within a kilometre of it will get preference. This also leaves no room for management   in these schools.

 The guidelines are for the 75% open seats in the schools on public land that have a lease rider of not denying admission to children in their neighbourhood. Another set of guidelines, for 25% EWS seats, is yet to be released.
 
 According to the guidelines for the 75% seats, “neighbourhood” has been divided into four categories -- students in 1st km, 1-3kms, 3-6kms and beyond 6kms of the school. Preference will be given to applicants within the first kilometre of the school, who already have a sibling there. Remaining seats will be handed out to applicants living within the first kilometre who don’t have siblings in the school.
 
 If seats are still vacant, applicants living in 1-3km radius of the school, with a sibling there, can get admission. If the seats aren’t filled even then, applicants in 1-3km radius, with no sibling at the school, can get a look-in. This process will be followed for all neighbourhood distances, until the seats are filled.
 
 The criteria also apply to feeder schools running on public land, and those who have the neighbourhood rider on the lease.
 
 However, the criteria for minority schools vary. These schools have the right to reserve a particular number of seats for minority applicants, and this number and admission procedure must be displayed publicly on the school website and notice board. If seats remain after all minority applicants have been admitted, the admission will be granted using the same procedure as for other public land schools.
 
 Similarly, schools set up for specific categories — like those for armed/ paramilitary forces, central services and schools for children with special needs — have also been given the right to reserve a particular number of seats for their respective segments. The number of these seats and the procedure of admission must be clearly mentioned on notice boards and school websites. However, these schools will have to reserve 25% seats for the EWS category. Seats that remain beyond the reserved category will be treated like open-category seats in other schools on public land.
 
 The director of education,  , clarified that dates have not been mentioned in the latest document because it is a notification from the LG’s office. “Schools have been assured that they will be given an extended deadline to complete   by Monday,” she said. 
 
 
