PATNA:   (PU) on Wednesday decided to make all its allied institutes fully functional in the larger interest of students and the society. The decision was taken at a meeting of the heads of various institutes and chaired by PU vice-chancellor Ras Bihari Prasad Singh.

 The VC pointed out that even though there were nearly half a dozen institutes under the university, only a few were working to the satisfaction of the students. Some of the institutes had also become dysfunctional. “The Population Research Centre of PU statistics department receives handsome grants from the health ministry, but it does not inform the university about the works being carried out by its officers and staff. Necessary steps will be initiated to revamp the working of all such institutes, including the Institute of Public Administration, Institute of Psychological Research and Services and Institute of Library and Information Science,” he said.
 
 VC felicitated: PU vice-chancellor Ras Bihari Prasad Singh and pro-VC Dolly Sinha were felicitated by the PU Employees’ Association at a function at Wheeler Senate House on Wednesday.
 
 Association president Umesh Prasad Singh and general secretary Ran Vijay Kumar hoped the new VC and pro-VC, both from the PU itself, would do their best to revive the old glory of the university. They assured the authorities of their full cooperation in all development activities.
 
 Speaking on the occasion, both Singh and Sinha said the employees would have to work wholeheartedly in implementing the road map of the university’s growth. They assured the employees that all their genuine demands would be fulfilled soon.
 
 New appointments: PU applied economics and commerce department teacher N K Jha has been appointed the students’ welfare dean of the university in place of Dolly Sinha, who has joined as the PU pro-VC. Patna Science College physics teacher Rohit Raman has joined as the head of PU physics department in place of Sinha. Usha Verma has taken over as the new head of PU geography department in place of K N Paswan, who has been appointed as the pro-VC of Magadh University.
 
 
