GURUGRAM: As many as seventeen city-based homebuyers, who had invested money in MVL   in  , are yet to get a refund, even two years after the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission directed the developer to return their money.

 The 17 buyers moved the consumer forum in 2013-14, complaining that the developer, Gurgaon-based MVL Limited, had offered them possession of their flats without any occupation certificate. Also, the flats did not have any covered parking, club and other facilities. They alleged that the developer had violated the sales and purchase agreement and thus, demanded refund of their money.
 
 The project, with 400-odd flats, was launched in 2006 and was apparently completed in 2013. In 2015, the commission, which initially had given around nine months to the developer to get the occupation certificate, finally ruled that the complainants were entitled to a refund. Further, it directed the developer to return the homebuyers their money with interest, calculated at the rate of 15 % from the date of payment till the date of refund.
 
 However, the buyers claimed that the commission didn’t set any deadline for the developer to refund the money, giving the developer an excuse to drag its feet on the matter. “We were offered possession in 2013, but the flats did not come with a park view, covered parking and club facilities, which were promised in the agreement. Also, they did not give any occupation certificate,” said Anil Kumar Gupta, one of the 17 investors.
 
 “The developer has been deliberately delaying the refund,” said Chetan Agarwal, a Gurgaon resident and one of the complainants.
 
 Another complainant, D K Anand, who had booked a flat in his wife’s name, said: “We had approached the consumer forum for correction in the earlier judgment. But then the judge, who had passed the order, had retired and the new judge declined to review that judgment.”
 
 Later, they moved the consumer forum again in 2016, seeking speedy execution of its earlier order. In the meantime, the developer approached the Supreme Court, seeking a stay on the commission’s order. “MVL did not file any civil appeal but has been trying to delay the whole process by using different tricks,” Agarwal alleged. Moreover, the developer has changed its address in order to avoid receiving any notice/summons. 
 
 When contacted, MVL Limited director Rakesh Gupta claimed, “The matter is still sub judice and the commission will hear the case again on November 29. The delay has been caused by the complainants themselves.”
 
 
