CHENNAI: The appointment of former   P   as director of the  , Chennai, three months after   raided his Anna Nagar residence and official chamber in the state  , has triggered a controversy. The officer was not given any posting since then.

 Expressing shock over the appointment, DMK leader M K Stalin sought a “white paper” from the state and Central governments on the alleged links between Rao and sand mining baron Sekar Reddy, the raids conducted by the I-T officials at his residence and office, besides his son’s offices, the fate of the documents seized, and further action taken, if any. “How could chief secretary Girija Vaidyanathan, known for her uprightness, allow such a posting order? I urge chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami to explain to the people the pressure exerted to appoint the officer again,” the DMK leader said.
 
 On Friday, the office of EDI in Guindy industrial estate confirmed the bureaucrat had assumed charge in the morning. In an order, the public department posted Rao as additional chief secretary/director of the institute, replacing K Rajaraman, who has now been posted as commissioner of land administration, a post that was held by another bureaucrat, Jatindra Nath Swain as additional charge.
 
 Rao, a 1985-batch officer from Andhra Pradesh told mediapersons a week after the raids on his premises that he was being targeted because he was being seen as a big hurdle for many forces. “Still I claim, I am the chief secretary appointed by Puratchi Thalaivi Amma, appointed by and nurtured by honourable madam,” he had said in December. Rao had claimed that the I-T raids were illegal as the warrant was not issued against him. Moreover, hardly any valuables was seized from his premises, he had claimed.
 
 The officer was secretary to Jayalalithaa in the previous regime before being elevated as chief secretary, a fortnight after she won the 2016 election.
 
 Stalin said the developments involving Rao was a blot in TN history, and alleged that former CM O Panneerselvam took efforts to safeguard the officer by not making any comments on the raid at secretariat, despite his presence in CM chamber during the raids. Recalling the accusations of the officer against both the governments, Stalin asked, “Is it a sign of administrative mess or an effort to safeguard the officer?”
 
 Questioning why no further action was taken after the raids, Stalin wondered how the officer got the protection from the state and Central governments and how he got the new posting.
 
 In a statement, CPM state secretary G Ramakrishnan said the chief minister owed an explanation to the people on the appointment of Rao.
 
 
