When England seamer   was escorted to the batting crease by   and was advised that he should be more respectful to his opponents in press conferences during Day 5 of the Wankhede Test between India and England last month, it was a situation that could've got ugly had more players butted in. South Africa's   though sensed the restiveness and stepped in. He put on a smile. A joke was narrated too and the tension evaporated. Play continued.

 The winner of the   ICC Award for Umpire of the year, Erasmus, 52, is blessed with a phlegmatic temperament, thanks to his stint as a school teacher before his romance with umpiring commenced. That quality has seemingly helped him diffuse tensions like the one in Mumbai and other games. Ask him about his man-managerial skills and the self-effacing South African says, "I don't really believe that my way is humorous, but sometimes I try and break the tension with a joke. Being calm in those situations hopefully rubs off on the players and makes them calmer."
 
 He says umpiring is like teaching. "To be successful, you must want to do the job. More money but unhappiness in what you do is not the solution," he says.
 
 The knowledge that international sport is stressful helps too. "I try and treat all players with the same respect. As a former teacher I work hard not to be schoolmasterly,"   tells TOI in an email conversation.
 
 It isn't surprising that besides his precision in decision making, the other virtue he is hailed for is calmness. "The truth though is that I look much calmer than what I feel," he admits.
 
 The acceptance that it is impossible to get 100% decisions right helps Erasmus. "It is an impossible challenge. I like being in the cauldron of the big match environment, managing the best in the world," he stresses as he explains what drew him to umpiring.
 
 While his way of dealing with on-field conflicts appear modern, Erasmus is old-school when it comes to preparation. One can often spot him in the nets on match-eve trying to get his eye in!
 
 Understanding that all three formats have a different rhythm help him too. "Tests are the most demanding from a physical and mental aspect, T20s and ODIs are faster-paced, and in T20s, you have to expect that batsmen and bowlers will do the unexpected," he explains.
 
 The South African drew enormous praise from players and experts for his near-perfect record during the series against England. For him, the challenge of umpiring in the subcontinent is immense. So what are the things one should focus on while umpiring in Asia?
 
 "I suppose plenty of preparation helps, but you need a little bit of luck in hearing the faint edges in venues that are very noisy, like Mumbai with all the blow horns," Erasmus says. He then explains his routine.
 
 "Preparing in the nets at sub-continental venues help you to get used to the bounce of those wickets, the amount of turn and trying to work out the angles."
 
 Even the best though have tough days and for Erasmus Day 5 of the Adelaide Test between India and Australia was one. "I had four perfect days, but made a few errors on Day 5.   bowled from my end all day and the ball was turning and bouncing with plenty of appeals every over. With no DRS, there was no safety net which added pressure. In the end I got 40 of the 43 decisions correct."
 
 He also categorises the Mumbai Test as tough. Erasmus was not supposed to be on the field, but a freak injury to Australia's Paul Reiffel forced him to get onto the park. "The pitch spun and the Indian spinners bowled beautifully and it kept us on our toes."
 
 One wonders though if it is easier to umpire on a pitch where there is a lot happening as you are switched on rather than on a flat deck where nothing is happening for 70 overs and suddenly there is an appeal towards stumps and you are caught napping. Erasmus concurs. "Sometimes those matches can be toughest as you could be lulled into a false sense of security. I try and switch my concentration up and down, rather than on and off, always being aware of where the ball is and when it comes back into play," he states.
 
 So what would be his dream assignment? "A World Cup final at Lord's in 2019," he says.
 
 That would mean South Africa not making the final. Again.
 
