Mumbai: Tata Sons, in an application to the Delhi high court, said on Tuesday that it has no objection to the enforcement of the $1.18-billion international arbitral award favouring its telecom joint venture partner  .   had already deposited the cash with the   and, if the court sanctions the application, the money will move to DoCoMo’s account, which will allow the Japanese giant to transfer its 26.5% stake in   to Tata Sons or any of its investment companies.

 In a statement DoCoMo said, “Full satisfaction of the award through the Delhi high court’s judgment will enable DoCoMo to consider reinvestment of an amount in India under a new cooperative relationship with Tata Sons.” This is being interpreted as a possibility of NTT and Tata Sons entering into a future joint venture in telecom-related businesses, including data centres. 
 
 Such an arrangement will help both the parties to structure the compensation deal, or a part of it at least, through a share deal complying with RBI norms. Both the Tatas and NTT have interests in allied sectors like data centres. TOI has reported in its February 28 edition that Tata Sons and DoCoMo would inform the Delhi high court on Tuesday that they have reached an agreement regarding the $1.18-billion payment dispute.
 
 Tata Sons will have to structure the payment in such a manner that it complies with the country’s regulatory framework. The possibilities include Tata Sons paying the entire amount of $1.18 billion to DoCoMo in Indian currency, or paying part of the total amount to DoCoMo in foreign currency (i.e., the fair market value of DoCoMo’s stake in Tata Teleservices) and the balance in Indian currency or offering a stake equivalent to that amount in a Tata unit. DoCoMo had earlier stated that Indian rules only regulate payment of hard currency by Indian companies and it cannot block payment from Indian companies’ overseas assets or funds.
 
 DoCoMo, which acquired a 26.5% stake in Tata Teleservices for $2.36 billion in 2009, wanted to pull out from the Indian telecom joint venture since 2014. But its exit was hindered by local rules. According to the pact inked by Tata Sons and DoCoMo in 2009, the Japanese company can exit the venture after five years and it would get back a minimum 50% of its investment. But RBI’s 2013 rules prevented Tata Sons to buy back DoCoMo’s stake at an assured price in foreign currencies and it only allowed the stake to be bought at a fair market price in foreign currencies. DoCoMo had wanted the entire $1.18 billion in foreign currencies. 
 
 On Tuesday, a lawyer representing the RBI told the Delhi high court that he will seek the central bank’s stand on the application and inform the same to the court. DoCoMo in its application with the Delhi high court on Tuesday said that it will suspend enforcement proceedings against Tata Sons in the New York and London jurisdictions for the next six months. The Delhi high court said that it will decide on the matter on March 8.
 
 In the past, the   has allowed one of its foreign partners to rejig its investment in Tata entities. In 1996, Jardine Matheson, the Hong Kong-based conglomerate, had acquired a 20% stake in the privately-held Tata Industries, which supported the group’s new ventures like telecom. Jardine Matheson later sold its stake back to Tata Sons and the former subsequently re-invested the amount in the listed Tata Power.
 
 In 2015, DoCoMo had initiated legal proceedings against Tata Sons in the London Court of International Arbitration after the parent of Tata Teleservices failed to abide by the 2009 pact, and it won the matter in June 2016. Subsequently, the Japanese telco moved the  , the Southern District Court in New York and the Delhi high court to enforce the $1.18-billion arbitral award.
 
 Tata Sons had objected to the enforcement of the award, citing infringement of foreign investment norms, and had deposited $1.18 billion with the Delhi high court.
 
 
