CHENNAI: Picking up poop and cleaning out kennels is what comes to mind when you mention   at an animal shelter. But a facility in Porur is looking for people to pet their furry friends and use their four-wheels to take the four-legged for a fun trip.

 “We are planning an overnight trip with our rescue animals and are looking for volunteers with cars,” says animal welfare activist Dinesh Baba, who runs Cloud No 9 Kennel and Nursing Care.
 
 “For the past year, we have been housing rescued animals. While some get adopted, there are a few who have been with us for the past six months,” says Baba. While the kennels are roomy, and the animals get enough food, life inside can take a toll. “After more than a month in the same place, their behaviour tends to change,” says Baba. While pets get plenty of love and attention, a shelter dog misses out on it. “We do play with them for a couple of hours, but that’s not enough,” he says.
 
 To encourage people to adopt, Baba had earlier tried an innovative approach. “We took some dogs to the lake and beach and put up photographs and videos. A few people who saw these dogs having fun outdoors were encouraged to adopt them,” says Baba, who now wants to take it a step further. This time, he wants to take the dozen dogs they have to Nagalapuram, 75km from the city in the third week of July. “It is popular for trekking. We are planning to leave on a Saturday afternoon and return the following day,” says Baba, who hopes the initiative will become a monthly event.
 
 All they want is people with cars who would enjoy a doggie’s day out. “We will provide food and water for the animals but people are welcome to bring food. We will be putting up tents, preferably some place with a lake nearby, and they can have fun playing with the dogs and taking them for walks,” says Baba, adding the animals are very friendly.
 
 The reward? Unconditional love, and lots of woofs and licks. “Once you spend time playing with a dog, you will soon fall in love with it,” says Baba, who hopes it may encourage people to give them a forever home.
 
 For those who don’t have a vehicle or are not free this time around, there is still a tempting offer. “Our dogs are loving and looking for company. So we would love people to drop in and spend time with them,” he says, adding that visits are welcome any day between 3:30pm and 5.30pm. To volunteer, contact 9841588852 or email dinesh.baba16@gmail.com.
 
