BHOPAL: Around 20,000 people in Bhopal could be  , a long-term   of a type that involves a breakdown in the relation between thought, emotion, and behaviour,   on the occasion of   here on Wednesday.

 A seminar was organised at a private hospital, which highlighted that schizophrenia is a chronic mental disorder and considerably affects a person’s thinking, feeling and action.
 
 “Schizophrenia affects approximately 1% of the population, which means in Bhopal at least 20,000 people suffer from schizophrenia. The disorder can affect any gender and at any age, but the most common age of its onset is around 15 to 25 years,” said consultant psychiatrist Dr Satyakant Trivedi.
 
 “The aetiology (scientific study) of this disorder is multi-factorial; research has shown that genetics, dysregulation in neurotransmitters, especially dopamine, plays an important role in symptoms causation”, Trivedi said.
 
 Main symptoms of the disorders are suspiciousness, aloofness, poor self-care, talking to self, smiling to self, changes in sleep pattern and a host of others. People with the disorder may hear voices or talking to him or see things that are non- existent.
 
 “People suffering from schizophrenia might think that others are reading their minds, controlling their thoughts and action or plotting to harm them. This can terribly impact people suffering from the disease and make them withdrawn or sometimes extremely agitated,” Trivedi added.
 
 Narrating some instances, Dr Trivedi explained that some affected patients talk about bizarre ideas, which can make it extremely difficult follow on a conversation. They may sit for hours or days without moving or talking. Persons suffering from this mental disorder have difficulty holding a job or maintaining relationships.
 
 Experts showcased how effective treatment is available for treating schizophrenia. Treatment helps many to recover and pursue their life goals with ease. It includes pharmacological treatment in the form of use of antipsychotics and non-pharmacological management in the form of psychotherapy. The patient has to be given social skill training as well as vocational training as a part of the rehabilitation process, Trivedi said.
 
 Due to   of the disorder, the role of family members and relatives in helping in recovery is considered crucial.
 
