CHANDIGARH/NEW DELHI: Haryana minister Anil Vij kicked up a storm on Saturday by saying that Mahatma Gandhi’s image was “responsible” for the rupee’s devaluation over the years and   is a “better brand”, drawing flak from various quarters and prompting an embarrassed BJP to disown the remark.

 No stranger to controversy, Vij said in a tweet that “ever since Gandhi's image has been on the rupee, it has devalued”, even as he welcomed Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s pictures on the calendar of the Khadi Village Industries Commission (KVIC) in place of Gandhi.
 
 The Haryana health minister said, “It’s good that Modi’s photo replaced Gandhi’s in the calendar.   is a better brand name. Jab se khadi ke saath Gandhi ka naam juda hai, khadi uth nahi saki.
 
 Khadi doob gayi (From the time Gandhi’s name has been associated with khadi, it has never been able to rise).”
 
 BJP promptly condemned Anil Vij’s remark, saying it has always followed Gandhi’s ideals. “The party doesn’t associate itself with his (Vij’s) remarks. These are his personal comments.
 
 We condemn them,” BJP secretary Shrikant Sharma said.
 
 Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar too distanced himself saying, “What one says in his personal capacity is not linked with the party.” Hours later, the minister himself tweeted, “My statement in connection with Mahatma Gandhi was given in a personal capacity. To avoid anyone’s sentiments, I am withdrawing it”.
 
 Sharma said Gandhi is an icon for BJP and that Congress had no moral right to speak of Gandhi’s legacy as it had only misused his name.
 
 It’s the BJP government under Modi which has promoted the Gandhian philosophies of “khadi and swachhata”, Sharma said.
 
 Khattar said it was the poor policies of Congress that hurt khadi and not Gandhi. “As far as the PM’s photo (on KVIC calendar) is concerned, it was not intended to disrespect anyone. Khadi will continue to be identified with Mahatma Gandhi,” he said.
 
 The Haryana Pradesh Congress filed a criminal complaint against Vij at a police station in Karnal.
 
 
