There was a time when every Malayali household woke up to the chirping of sparrows from the backyard. 

 But say sparrow and youngsters today, especially in urban Kerala, might very well think you are talking about Jack Sparrow of The Pirates of the Caribbean! The population of the Passer Domesticus aka house sparrows has been alarmingly declining across the globe and in Kerala too, the numbers are sadly dwindling. Where are the little birds flying to, abandoning us? And what needs to be done to bring them back? On   today, Kochi Times finds out more about them.
 
 
 
 A group of bird watchers in Kerala have been doing a project for the past few months – The Kerala  , which studies the population and distribution of birds in the State. Their research shows that the number of house sparrows is drastically declining in Kerala, especially in the cities!
 Ornithologist Vishnu Das C K, who is part of the project, says, “We just finished the study and so we can’t quote numbers yet. However, we can say that in highly urbanised cities like Kochi, Trivandrum, Calicut and Thrissur, there is a decrease in the number of sparrows. It’s in the rural areas of Palakad and Wayanad that house sparrows can be mostly seen today.” Roshnath Ramesh, a wildlife biologist says, “There has been no proper study on the population of sparrows. So we cannot compare the present population to a figure from the past. However, birdwatchers and nature enthusiast report decreased sighting of the birds now and currently, studies are being conducted based on this observation.”
 
 
 
 Yes, humans are to blame for them being homeless. According to birdwatchers, the consumerist culture has played a big part in driving sparrows away. “Sparrows are ‘grani-vores’, their food is mainly grains. In the past, we could see spot sparrows around grocery shops, as grains would spill out from the sacks and offer them enough food. Now, grain is packaged well and goes straight into supermarkets,” says Arun Raj, a bird watcher. 
 Wildlife biologist Roshnath Ramesh agrees. “Grain is stored in plastic bags now to minimise spilling and spoiling. Also, use of pesticides and chemicals in grains, and a decrease in the number of ration and grocery shops have all resulted in scarcity of food for the birds.”
 
 Vishnu Das says that as per certain studies, the radiation from telecommunication towers has also played a big role in the dwindling of the sparrow population. “However, the findings have not been proven yet,” he says.
 The changes in our architecture, which leave them fewer nesting places, is another reason cited by experts. Ornithologist Sasikumar C says, “In the past, our houses had roof tiles and there were nooks and crannies in which the birds could nest. Ledges under wooden beams of houses also used to provide them with enough places to nest. But today, roofs are made of concrete and the sparrows are left with no suitable habitat.” He also terms the reducing vegetation cover in our cities as another reason for the phenomena.
 
 
 
 There are a few simple steps we can take to ensure that we accommodate sparrows too, in metros. “Placing a spread of grains in elevated platforms can help them find food. Of course, other animals and birds too might feed on them, but sparrows too would get a share,” Vishnu says. He also says that placing nesting boxes – which can even be a cardboard box with a hole — can provide shelter for them. “Place these boxes at a height of about eight to nine feet from the ground, in houses and buildings,” Vishnu adds.
 
 Planting shrubs or short trees — less than five metres high — which the birds can roost in will also host a good number of sparrows in the area, says Roshnath. “Maintaining an eco-friendly environment, minimising pollution, keeping the surroundings clean, providing provisions for nesting during construction of new buildings, minimising construction of new mobile towers, providing water baths and decreased use of pesticides in rice and other grains are the means with which we can bring the sparrow population back,” he says. 
 
 
 
 Sparrows are not just for chirping, they are important for a variety of other reasons. Vishnu says, “House sparrows as a species in the ecosystem maintain the ecological balance. For many other birds belonging to the raptors (bird of prey) category, sparrows are a main source of food. Their absence can result in a break in the food chain and affect the population of other birds too.” The birds also play a role in the food grain distribution. When a sparrow gets four grains, for instance, they might end up eating two and distributing the rest, which means seed distribution.
 Roshnath says, “Sparrows catch insects, pests and worms which feed on grains and vegetables. They also peck at food materials on the ground, thereby cleaning the surroundings. They are also a pleasure to the eye and ear, spreading cheer with their chirping and tweeting. Some people believe it to be good omen when sparrows make a nest in their shops.”
 
 
 
