MUMBAI: “Almost all parents look forward to the day when they become grandparents, but not necessarily when their daughter is in Class VII. The news was like waking up to a nightmare but what followed was worse,“ said the father of the 13-year-old whose case grabbed national headlines after the   allowed the girl to end her pregnancy in the 32nd week--making it the oldest foetus to be terminated on court orders. Once the baby boy was born alive, the family expressed its desire to keep him, but the newborn died within 48 hours due to prematurity.

 The girl was discharged on Friday after she underwent a caesarean section to terminate the pregnancy at JJ Hospital. Talking exclusively to TOI, her father said, “The first thing she asked was about the child. We told her he is being looked after in the NICU. She has since asked about him several times, but we won't tell her till she has recovered completely .“ The father of a 13-year-old girl who was allowed to terminate her pregnancy in the 32nd week by the Supreme Court said she would resume school soon as her surgery wounds had healed.
 
 An idli vendor in the city for 27 years, the father said their lives had completely turned around since the night of August 10, when the 22-year-old man who had been living with the family for the past seven years was arrested for raping the minor under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) 2012 Act. “What made it worse was that it was not an outsider. It was a boy I had raised as my own child. During my daughter's samathiya sadangu (a ceremony to mark the girl's entry into puberty) in April last year, the boy's family had proposed marriage and we had agreed to it. Our plan was to get them married once my daughter turned 18 and the boy had a more stable income.“
 
 When he was away visiting his village in TN in the first week of August, the girl developed a breathing problem. “Unaware that she was seven months' pregnant, my daughter thought she was becoming obese.Sometime ago, she had even seen a doctor in our village, who advised her to exercise. But that day while skipping, the baby moved upwards, following which she developed breathing difficulty. An ultrasound showed us that she was pregnant,“ he said, adding that his family had initially kept him in the dark fearing he would get wild.
 
 He said that at that point the family wanted an abortion.“But as time passed, we thought the pregnancy was already at an advanced stage and it would perhaps be in nobody's interest to let the baby die,“ he said. He said gynaecologist Nikhil Datar, whom the family had first approached for help to terminate the pregnancy , app rised them of the risk that the 13-year-old might face if the pregnancy continued. “I didn't want any harm to come to my daughter and that was the reason I signed on the SC petition,“ he said. He said the family had almost accepted the baby in the family when the court gave its judgment. “We wish that the doctors had told us that there was no compulsion to terminate even if there was a court order. We were willing to continue the pregnancy for two weeks for the baby's life, but no one told us it was a possibility .“
 
 He said the family was willing to battle “shame and stigma“ to raise the baby , only if the doctors had given them a complete picture that at 32 weeks the baby had a shot at life.
 
 “Even when my wife was pregnant with our fourth child, I didn't let her abort thinking who are we to snub a life,“ he said. “We don't understand why and how a 1.8kg baby , who the doctors initially told us was healthy , just died,“ he said.
 
 Dr Datar said the parents had the right to refuse treatment at any point. “They could have told JJ medical board or doctors even after admission or court order, but they didn't communicate.“An   member said such cases must be seen as a women's rights issue more than societal.
 
