BENGALURU: Revival of the severely polluted   is unlikely in the near future with the state government finding the  's order to do so in a month impractical. Scrambling to make its case before the  , which may hear the case on May 18, the government has prepared a detailed report explaining why it's impossible to clean the lake within the timeframe.

 Official sources said the target of cleaning up Bellandur Lake calls for a holistic approach and can be achieved earliest by 2022.
 
 “We are in the process of implementing NGT's order. We are also looking into the difficult part of the directive. A report explaining our position is ready,“ said KSPCB chairman Lakshman.
 
 The NGT on April 19 had directed the state government to shut all polluting industrial units in the lake's catchment area and had set one-month deadline to clean it up.
 
 The government, in fact, wanted to move the   against the NGT order but changed its mind on the advice of the advocate general. “We could have appealed to the Supreme Court but it's not the option before us now. We will update NGT about the work we have taken up and seek more time,“ said  , additional chief secretary, urban development department, who heads the committee on Bellandur Lake.
 
 Closing units in the lake's catchment area is another dif ficult task the government faces. The pollution board has to shut nearly 1,000 units -large, medium and small -spread over the lake's over 375 sq km catchment area.
 
 “Most of these industrial units are licensed and are operating with our consent. If we try to seal them, they will take legal recourse. Court cases are not advisable at this time and could dent the state's image as a popular investment destination,“ said a senior board official.
 
 The NGT wants the state to ensure zero liquid discharge into the lake, which means the units must have effluent treatment plants of their own and reuse the treated water. Otherwise, effluents from the units can be diverted to a single treatment plant and evaporated through a boiling process.
 
 “The evaporation process could pollute the air. And the solid residues have to be dumped into a landfill, which would be hazardous,“ said K Sumathi, chief chemist in the mines and geology department.
 
 As far as handling sewage is concerned, the NGT wants the state to divert the sewage and dump it far away from the lake.“The sewage inflow to Bellandur Lake is about 450 MLD, of which around 200 MLD is being treated by the sewage treatment plants. Disposing the rest 250 MLD sewage will need over 20,000 trucks, and the question is where will it go?“ said Jain.
 
 Pollution officials said that no farmer would agree to irrigate his farm with polluted water. Treated water cannot be allowed into the lake since it still contains nitrate and phosphate. And the treatment of sewage comes at a huge cost, an estimated Rs 3 crore for 1 MLD.
 
 Officials said clearing more than 3-metre thick sludge in the lake would take years.
 
