NAGPUR: It has been over thirty years since the   was established. Unfortunately, the act was not amended to protect the  . While we are spearheading towards a  , a grievances of   are being ingnored.

 The theme for World Consumer Rights Day 2017 was ‘Building a Digital World Consumers Can Trust’. The act only caters to the matters of physical customers. Considering digitalization, there are many grey areas in it. We are not yet prepared to go completely digital said Cyber Law expert Mahendra Limaye.
 
 “A physical consumer can get an idea about the authenticity of the shop he is dealing with. But digital consumers are clueless about the location of the online portal,” he said. The right to know is being hampered in this process. This is the biggest hindrance in basic jurisdiction.
 
 The Redressal mechanism needs to be upgraded to efficiently deal with digital consumer disputes. Digital consumers don’t even know which jurisdiction to invoke if their rights are breached. Consumer is supposedly the king of market and all the programmes about digitalization should majorly focus on protecting basic consumer rights. Unfortunately, they are far from being sensitive towards them. “We urgently need amendments in the act in order to stop the violation of consumer rights,”said Limaye.
 
 Consumer rights activists expressed disappointment over the administrative negligence. They said that the act is not implemented in full force.
 
 The district consumer protection council meets as per the guidelines prescribed in the act. All the issues are to be resolved through the council. However, the NGOs said that the district collector is “missed the monthly meetings” despite being its chairman. 
 
 Mohd Shahid Sharif, national chairman,  , said, “ Representatives of various government institutions are absent from the meeting. As a result, the meeting proceeds and major issues are discussed but constructive results are not obtained.”
 
 Sharif said, “The digital business in the country is worth over Rs25,000 crore. The online system lacks accountability and customers affected by frauds don’t know where to reach out.”
 
 Cases against unfair practices of builders and real estate developers top the list of frauds. Builders take more than required time to finish the projects and also delay government approvals of registry etc. Matters of improper drainage system, water proofing, and lift installation should be looked into too. 
 
 Office superintendent at city’s consumer forum Premnath Kumre said, “There are around 1577 pending cases. We have a president and two members who look after them. one of them is deputed to Wardha. We are in a position to resolve an average 60 cases per month.” He also said that percentage of filing cases is high in city. 
 
 Consumers are being fooled by the ‘Best before’ label. It should be abolished and only expiry date should be mentioned. Customers should also know where to file a complaint against misleading advertisements, said experts.
 
