Chennai: Kunal Agarwal and Raghav Mecheri’s affair with coding started at the age of 10. Mostly self-taught, the duo began to build their own games when they ran out of games to play. Both students of grade 12 now, run coding clubs in the city for kids. 14 year old Krish Samtani has launched 0Gravity, a community driven coding club which runs in Bengaluru and Chennai. It’s not just corporates that are looking to tap into young talent. Kids who have experienced the joy of coding and building a product are looking to share the experience with their peers.

 Agarwal and Mecheri have been running the club since September 2016 for kids in the age group 7 -17. “We wanted to give others exposure to coding. The pride you feel when you see the final product be it a website or an app is rewarding and we want others to experience it too,” said Mecheri. When the duo decided to start clubs, they went to various schools to seek participation which was well received. “Our teachers and principal at Sishya School have been very encouraging of our initiative,” said Agarwal.
 
 The duo run clubs under the banner of CoderDojo, a global movement to promote coding. “CoderDojo is all about free learning — no fees are charged and each one learns what they want. We don’t set a syllabus or a plan. When someone comes to us, we ask them what they want to learn and accordingly, help them. We teach what they want to learn,” said Agarwal. Participants build a variety of applications from websites to games, even an online calculator. “We have helped others build shopping websites, 2d games that involve shooting or obstacle avoidance,” said Mecheri.
 
 Besides the fun side to coding, what is driving these kids is the community angle. 14 year old Krish Samtani, student of The International School, Bengaluru (TISB), runs 0Gravity, a coding club for kids. He is partnering with NGOs and schools to include all children who have interest in coding.
 
 Open to children in the age group 10 -16 years, the clubs are conducted at Sagezza’s premises within IIT Madras Research Park and in Bengaluru. On April 8, Saturday, a club will be launched at startup FixNix’s premises in Ashok Nagar. “FixNix University was launched to groom freshers into product developers and security engineers. Our partnership with 0Gravity is in line with our vision to empower youngsters,” said Shanmugavel Sankaran, founder, FixNix.
 
 
