GUWAHATI: Gunotsav, which was first started in Gujarat about a decade ago to assess the   in schools, has been successful in  . Prime Minister   has congratulated the state government for staring the  . 

 In his tweet on Wednesday, Modi expressed hope that Gunotsav, adopted from Gujarat with modifications, will improve the education standard across the state. As top bureaucrats and policemen led by state chief secretary VK Pipersenia and DGP Mukesh Sahay visited schools across eight districts of Assam on the second day of the four-day festival, the Prime Minister congratulated the state government for its initiative to reveal the actual scenario of government-run schools. 
 
 "Gunotsav is a great initiative to gauge the quality of learning. Teachers and students will greatly benefit from this," tweeted Modi, lauding the efforts of the Assam government. 
 
 The government-run schools wore a new look in the districts of Assam where the fest is being organized for the first time. State education minister Himanta Biswa Sarma told the media that the assessment done by external evaluators in the first phase of the fest will divulge the reality of about 12,000 schools of the state and the learning outcome of more than nine lakh students from Class II to VIII will come to the notice of the state government.
 
 Starting from health and hygiene to the existing teacher-pupil ratio, the external evaluators comprising IAS, IPS and senior government officials were seen personally inspecting the condition of schools in the eight districts. While chief secretary Pipersenia went to a school at Sonapur on the outskirts of the city, DGP Sahay and Kamrup (Metro) deputy commissioner M Angamuthu were seen imparting lessons to children in two different city schools.
 
 "The outcome of Gunotsav is going to be very crucial for us because we will know the reasons due to which our government-run schools are lagging behind. If there is lack of teachers and need for infrastructure development, it will be the duty of the government to do the needful. If the students are poor in studies, the teachers will have to start taking classes to improve their learning curve," said Sarma. 
 
 
