HYDERABAD: The   is upset about the   that will be levied in place of the existing   from July 1 this year.

 “This is gross injustice.The vibrant Telugu cinema will adversely be affected. There should be a roll back," said Burgupalli Shivarama Krishna, president of Telugu Film Producers' Council.
 
 The film industry has been taken by surprise by the announcement of 28% GST. A delei gation of prominent film personalities had met Union finance minister Arun Jaitley on the need to keep GST low for the film industry . 
 
 The delegation comprising Telugu film t chamber of commerce presit dent D Suresh Babu, South Indian film chamber of commerce president C Kalyan and Burgupalli Shivarama Krish na was taken by IT and municipal administration minister  .
 
 Under the existing system, in the two Telugu states, 8% entertainment tax is levied for small budget films, 12% for big budget films.
 
 “Over the last few decades, successive government kept the entertainment tax low so that regional cinema can survive and thrive. The film industry has a huge work force and sops to the industry have benefited it,“ Krishna told TOI, adding, “When we met the finance minister, we explained to him how foreign and Hindi cinema sustain themselves because they are released across the country . Low tax or no tax has always helped regional cinema. We will explain this to him again."
 
 Once GST is introduced all over the country , the tax-rate will be the same. Southern states in particular are not happy with this. For example, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu have no entertainment tax at all, but this benefit will change because now a GST of 28% will have to be collected from the audience.
 
 Entertainment tax in northern states is high, even up to 60%. So the 28% GST will benefit them because the tax will be reduced. Actor Allu Sirish, son of noted producer Allu Ara vind, also spoke out against the increased GST. “Telugu people's love for their cinema needs no explanation. The Centre's decision to levy 28% GST will result in increase of ticket prices," he said. Sirish called upon the Telugu film industry to unite and put forward the case in front of the finance ministry .
 
 Responding to producer   on Twitter, K T Rama Rao said he had taken up the matter with the Union finance minister. “Hope he will reconsider," he said.That was in November 2016.
 
