RAIPUR: A  , located atop   in  , fell from a height of 13,000 feet and broke into pieces in the dense forest area dominated by the  . Experts and conservationists term this a major blow to archaeology.

 Bastar police is not ruling out the possibility of Maoists pushing the idol down the hill to destroy it in an attempt to stop development works and prevent visitors in the area where they have a strong presence as the incident took place after the recent government announcement to sanction Rs two crore for developing the area as a tourist spot.
 
 With information about the missing idol spreading like wildfire, pictures of the spot went viral on the social media amid speculation that the 10th century idol was stolen. Later, a group of people launched a search and finally found pieces of the historic idol scattered at the foothill. A team lead by Dantewada superintendent of police Kamlochan Kashyap along with collector Saurabh Kumar and others also rushed to the spot to inspect the area. 
 
 Kashyap told TOI said, "The historic Ganesha idol was found in pieces below the Dholkal hill. It's suspected that the Maoists might have damaged the idol first and then pushed it from the hill top."
 
 The place was becoming a famous tourist spot, attracting more tourists. This is one of the reason that we are not ruling out the possibility of Maoist involvement, he said, adding that an FIR would be lodged . Local population felt very disappointed as the historic idol got them work of guides to the visitors getting them good pocket money," Kashyap said.
 
 When contacted Rajeev Ranjan Prasad, researcher and author of several books on historic places of Bastar said, “I have been highlighting and insisting consistently since years to conserve and protect the site. But administration didn't pay heed. It was a unique idol and it's a huge loss to the archaeology of Bastar. Bastar has a history of theft of idols. Many idols are found unattended lying on the roadside and even under the trees.”
 
 The high economic value of these age-old idols make them vulnerable in absence of any security and this way Bastar is losing all its historic evidences which could be a vast area of research, he said adding that there is no account of the idols gone missing, even those spotted doesn't get attention of protection, which is very sad," Prasad said.
 
 
 
 
 The 1100 year old Ganesha Idol was discovered 5 years ago by a local journalist, who reached the Dholkal hilltop in 2012. 
 
 Located atop of Dhol-shaped hill called Dholkal, the six-foot idol belonged to   of 9th or 10th century.
 
 Archaeologists have been demanding protecting the site. 
 
 Place was discovered by an English geologist Crookshank in 1934 when Bailadila mining was under survey.
 
 After studying Crookshank's geological report of south Bastar, researcher Rajeev Ranjan Prasad matched the historical evidences of the place and compiled the photographs.
 
 The idol located at a hight remained unnoticed due to dense forest and tough routes. The place is on the top of a mountain, about 13km high.
 
