HYDERABAD: Singapore consortium, the master developer for start-up area in upcoming capital city of  , will construct a huge financial tower with eight lakh square feet of built-up area.

 The first phase of development of the capital city will be ready in five years. It will come up on about 600 acres. A memorandum of understanding (MoU) will be signed between Andhra Pradesh and Singapore governments for the development of start-up area on Monday .
 
 The Singapore consortium (Asecndas-Singbridge, public sector companies in Singapore) will develop 1,691 acres. The first construction to be taken up will be a huge tower. It will be on the lines of the   (ITPL) in Bangalore built by the same companies.
 
 “Facilitating investments for Amaravati in the start-up area is one of the prominent features of the MoU. The Singapore government will kick start the process by building this tower.They are not even waiting for the companies to set up their units,“   (CRDA) commissioner   said.
 
 Interacting with STOI in Hyderabad after returning from London, he said signing the MoU with Singapore companies will kickstart development of start-up area in three phases spanning over five years each. However, CRDA will allot land to Singapore in a phased manner only . The development of start-up area is expected to generate 1,25,000 jobs and bring an investment of `1, 25,000 crore.
 
 The salient feature of MoU to be signed by   chi ef minister N Chandraba bu Naidu and Singapore minister Eswaran (mini ster of trade and industries MIT) is establishment of high-level joint implemen tation steering committee (JISC) to be co-chaired by both of them and Joint Imp lementation Working Com mittee (JIWC) comprising senior officials from both the governments to implement the MoU. This panel will report to JISC.
 
  The MoU will focus on cooperation to enhance the capacities of the government of AP and agencies, promotion of bilateral trade for the development of start-up area. Capacity building of the government officials of AP, and creation of opportunities for Singapore companies to invest and contribut9e their expertise to the economic development of Andhra Pradesh.The Singapore delegation to AP on Monday will comprise 72 experts.
 
 The AP government will float an Urban Art Commission on the lines of the one in Delhi.This will give guidelines and monitor the nature and quality of buildings in the capital city. All the buildings in a given area will be similar in shape. CRDA has given many options for returnable plots for farmers. It will also launch an application with the name Mana Amaravati (Our Amaravati) which will help farmers sell their plots.
 
