SRINAGAR: At least six persons were killed and several others injured as security forces opened fire on rampaging mobs in various parts of this Lok Sabha constituency on Sunday, as the violence marred polling which saw an abysmally low 5.52 per cent turnout till 1400 hours.

 Army was called out to help security forces control a rampaging mob which pelted stones and hurled petrol bombs to set a polling booth ablaze in the   district of the Srinagar constituency.
 
 Hundreds of protesters stormed a polling station at Pakherpora in Chrar-e-Sharief area of   district and ransacked a building housing a polling booth, officials said, adding the security forces fired several warning rounds to disperse the mob, which did not relent.
 
 Six persons were injured in the firing, of whom two, 20- year-old Mohammad Abbas and 15-year-old Faizaan Ahmad Rather, succumbed to bullet wounds.
 
 In another incident, security forces opened fire to quell a stone-pelting mob in Ratxuna Beerwah area, leaving one Nissar Ahmed dead. At the Daulatpura in Chadoora assembly segment of Budgam district, one person, identified as Shabir Ahmed, was killed in firing by security personnel.
 
 A youth, Adil Farooq, succumbed to multiple pellet injuries in the Magam town, about 20 kms from here. One Aqib Wani was shot dead as police opened fire on a crowd of protestors in the Beerwah area in the afternoon.
 
 The officials said the BSF, deployed for security of the polling stations, fired live rounds as they were not provided with pellet guns.
 
 Security force personnel were forced to abandon two polling stations in Chadoora area as they came under heavy stone-pelting by mobs, the officials said.
 
 Violence marred polling in some other parts of the Srinagar parliamentary seat as stone pelting incidents were reported from over two dozen other places across the three districts of Srinagar, Budgam and Ganderbal which constitute the Srinagar constituency, they said.
 
 The voter turnout was very low till 1400 hours with only 5.52 per cent of the 12.61 lakh electorate exercising their franchise, the officials said. Large number of voters in many areas chose to give polling a miss, even in places like Ichgam, Maloora and Budgam which have traditionally seen high turnout.
 
 Opposition National Conference leaders including its President and candidate,  , and his son Omar attacked the Mehbooba Mufti-led J&K government for having completely failed to ensure smooth conduct of the polls.
 
 In Chenar area of Ganderbal district, one Mohammed Ramzan Rather and his wife and other villagers faced the wrath of angry protestors when they were on their way to vote. He was rushed to Kangan district hospital with a bleeding head.
 
 The nearby locality of Wakura wore a deserted look after crowds pelted stones at security forces in the morning, as securitymen fired several rounds of tear gas shells to disperse the protestors. 
 
 
 
