NEW DELHI: On the anniversary of the day Mohandas Gandhi was assassinated, Congress leader   appeared in a Bhiwandi court where he's being sued for defamation for saying "the RSS people killed Gandhi". 

 The case was adjourned today. The next hearing is scheduled for March 3.
 
 As he came out of court, Rahul said his fight is against those who are trying to wipe out the legacy of Gandhi. "I will keep fighting them," he said.
 
 At the last hearing, the Bhiwandi magistrate's court had granted the Congress leader bail after he appeared before it. The case against Rahul was filed by a local RSS functionary, Rajesh Kunte, over the former's speech in Bhiwandi on March 6, 2014, when he made the comment about who killed Gandhi.
 
 "Will be in Bhiwandi this morning before heading to Goa," said Rahul in a tweet this morning.
 
 
  
  
 
 Last August, it looked like Rahul Gandhi may be cleared of defamation charges after he backtracked and told the   he never meant to accuse the whole of the RSS of assassinating Gandhi.
 
 After being criticized for backtracking, he told the top court in September that he stands by his 2014 statement that the RSS killed Mahatma Gandhi and is ready to face trial for saying that. He then withdrew his petition seeking to quash the   against him.
 
  In September, Rahul withdrew a petition he filed in the Supreme Court challenging the case and said he would instead face trial, ANI said. This, after the top court refused to interfere with the criminal proceedings pending against him before the trial court. 
 Rahul made comments about the RSS and Gandhi, the 'Father of the Nation', during a Thane rally in March 2014. 
 
 "RSS people killed Gandhiji and today their people (BJP) talk of him...They opposed Sardar Patel and Gandhiji," Rahul had said then.
 Earlier today, Rahul paid tribute to 'Father of the Nation' on his 69th death anniversary and pledged to fight against those who seek to "destroy", IANS reported.
 
 He tweeted:
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 On this day in 1948, Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi was assassinated by  , a Hindu nationalist, who fired three bullets into his chest at a prayer meeting.
 
 Gandhi was born on October 2, 1869 in Gujarat's Porbandar district. He is admired widely for his non-violent philosophy and passive resistance. He was known to his many followers as 'Mahatma'.
 
 
 
 
 
