MOLLEM: Intense prospecting for iron ore in Goa during the 2007-2012 mining boom raised worries about depletion of mineral resources, but massive excavations into the state’s priceless assets and India’s oldest   formations at  , approximately 75km away from Panaji, went unnoticed.

  and ancestors of man have been around for only the last few million years. In comparison, these rock formations along Goa’s border with  , identified by geologists as the Trondhjemite gneiss, date back to 3.4 billion years, just a billion years after Earth was formed.
 
 “This was the first hard skin of earth corresponding to the moment of birth of primitive cellular life,” said scientist Nandkumar Kamat.
 
 Smaller formations of the unique rocks can be found scattered in the water and on the beach at Palolem in South Goa. Tourists and others senselessly scribble on the beach rocks, which are, in fact, an unrecognised natural treasure. At Anmod slope, the PWD carved into the formations for the national highway to Karnataka and more recently, for widening after landslides hit the area.
 
 If the government had declared the rock formations a protected site, both acts would have been sacrilegious.
 
 Just off the Goa border, as the climb to the Anmod Ghat begins, large patches of rocks, in varying shades of grey, lie by the national highway leading to Karnataka. They punctuate the forest cover every now and then, providing the perfect pit-stop for travellers who have left huge heaps of waste on the rocks over the years, completely oblivious of their significance.
 
 “In Anmod Ghat, gneiss rocks are exposed at many places due to hill cutting and road widening. These rocks are in a state of decomposition and disintegration and are subjected to erosion due to rapid run-offs. There is a need to create awareness among the general public about this geological treasure located in Goa. The Geological Survey of India or the government of Goa can make efforts to display boards at important places along Anmod Ghat explaining the geological significance of these rocks. This step may also attract tourists to these spots,” said geographer F M Nadaf, who is also principal of Shree Mallikarjun College, Canacona.
 
 In the absence of signages describing the importance of these rocks, visitors are unable to appreciate them. The knowledge about their value remains with only a few geologists and students.
 
 “At the most, we need thematic, Precambrian geological parks, including one at Anmod/Mollem and at Palolem, Canacona, after consulting experts to fix the best location as a geo-heritage tourism attraction. The area can then be notified, acquired, protected and conserved,” Kamat said.
 
 While PWD officials said that they are uninformed on the significance of the rocks, those from the directorate of archives and archaeology said they are yet to carry out an inspection before any proposal is made for their demarcation as part of a geological park.
 
 “Trondhjemite gneisses are generally very old rocks, over three billion years in age, and these rocks are also found in Canacona besides the Western Ghats. It may be shocking for a non-geologist to know that at the time the Trondhjemite gneisses were forming, there was no Goa, no India no Arabian Sea. None of the oceans, continents or mountain ranges that we see today existed,” records the book ‘Natural Resources of Goa: A Geological Perspective’, edited by Antonio Mascarenhas and Glenn Kalavampara, in its first chapter written by late geologist O A Fernandes.
 
