Mumbai: Former Indian cricket board chief   resigned as independent chairman of the International Cricket Council ( ) on Wednesday, a day after he met the CEO and top administrators of  , setting off speculation that the board had conveyed to him that it would oppose his proposed   in the running of the game.

 The Nagpur lawyer, however, said that he was quitting purely for “personal reasons”.
 
 He had met Vinod Rai and Vikram Limaye, two members of the Supreme Court-appointed Committee of Administrators (CoA), in the presence of BCCI CEO Rahul Johri in Mumbai. After the meeting, he flew back to Nagpur and resigned on Wednesday afternoon.
 
 The resignation brought an end to his eight-month tenure in the game’s governing body, which focused on bringing about a flurry of policy changes.
 
 Manohar met Rai, the head of the CoA, for the first time since the latter was appointed by the country’s highest court last month to ensure implementation of the Lodha committee’s recommendations.
 
 In the meeting, Manohar requested Rai, Limaye and Johri to agree to the ICC’s policy reforms to which the CoA members and Johri disagreed. Highly placed sources told TOI that Manohar was categorically told by these individuals that under no circumstances would BCCI allow the finance and governance models of the ICC to be changed in the prevailing circumstances.
 
 The board, it is learned, conveyed to Manohar that the proposed reforms would continue to be opposed by India either by way of retaining the required number of votes to block its passage or by invoking BCCI’s members participation agreement (MPA) with the ICC that allows the board to recuse itself from an eight-year bilateral cycle.
 
 “This is the gist of what was spoken, though not in so many words,” a source in the know of things said.
 
 The CoA certainly did not want a confrontation with the member boards of ICC nor with the chairman. Yet, after going through the MPA, signed in 2014, the CoA was convinced that the document protected the rights of BCCI at the ICC.
 
 After the meeting with the CoA members and Johri, Manohar is learned to have arrived at the conclusion that there was no way BCCI would allow ICC to go ahead with the reforms and would use all resources at their disposal to block it.
 
 However, Manohar maintained that he quitting for personal reasons and sources close to him said he had decided to quit before the meeting with BCCI.
 
 Interestingly, BCCI went into a huddle on Wednesday with Sri Lanka Cricket (SLC) and the Bangladesh Cricket Board (BCB) in Colombo in a separate meeting called to mark Sri Lanka’s 70 years of independence next year. The Zimbabwe Cricket Board was also invited to Colombo where all the member boards resolved to side with BCCI in opposing ICC’s proposed reforms. The Bangladesh board later confirmed this in a statement.
 
 The proposed reforms at ICC, being pushed by Manohar, revolve around bringing down the existing Big Three financial model that guarantees BCCI, Cricket Australia and the England Cricket Board additional income based on the revenue they bring to the table.
 
 Among other things, the proposed reforms also envisage a change in the ICC board’s voting pattern by bringing in an independent female director.
 
 Having given his commitment to ICC's member boards that he would bring about a “fair and balanced” administration in the game’s parent body, Manohar decided to quit once it became clear that he would not be given the space to do so.
 
 The CoA is not willing to offer a comment on Manohar’s resignation right now. The Indian board, meanwhile, issued a politically correct statement on Wednesday evening which read: “BCCI expressed its surprise at the sudden decision of Mr Manohar to step down. (His) contribution to Indian cricket is invaluable. He is a man of few words but excellent deeds. The CoA was looking forward to a long-term cooperation between the ICC and BCCI with Manohar at the helm of affairs. BCCI wishes him the very best for his future endeavours.”
 
 
