MUMBAI: The   are back in the Indian Premier League ( ) after a two-year suspension and looking to begin their new stint on a fresh note. However, while they do so, the franchise is also attending to potential buyers approaching them, settling the investigation that began with the Enforcement Directorate on FEMA violations, changing their internal shareholding pattern, saying goodbye to ex-co-owner Raj Kundra and more. In an exclusive interview, Rajasthan Royals co-owner   spells it out to TOI. 

 EXCERPTS... 
 
 
 
 
 We are one of the being founding members and the inaugural champions, and so you can imagine how excited we are to be back playing in IPL season 11. We have had formal communication from the BCCI, and we are delighted to be back.
 
 
 
 
 We got reinstated on 14th July 2017.
 
 
 
 
 The shareholding pattern of the franchise has not changed in the last two years.
 
 
 
 
 Mr. Chellaram transferred his stake in the franchise to his daughter Amisha Chellaram over two years ago. Everything else is media speculation.
 
 
 
 
 Yes, Raj Kundra voluntarily exited as a shareholder, post the Supreme Court verdict on the allegations made by Delhi police. He has always maintained his innocence, but has also wanted the best for the franchise, which is why he voluntarily stepped away two years ago.
 
 
 
 
 The shareholding is held between Manoj Badale, Amisha Chellaram and Lachlan Murdoch. Mr. Kundra’s shares were acquired back by the company.
 
 
 
 
 We condemn spot fixing and any activities that are not permissible by law.
 
 
 
 
 The long standing case relates to a fine placed on the franchise for transferring funds INTO India through normal banking channels. In 2010,   had approached FIPB for approval for issue of shares and voluntarily disclosed the requisite paperwork. The FIPB not only rejected the approval instead, and the ED issued a penal notice on the company and associates, much to our confusion. The case was appealed and the ATFE have already passed a new order reducing the penalty by 30%, and the order records the fact that “there has been no loss to exchequer in India, that the money has come in to India and that there has been no mis-utilization of funds”. That said, we are taking the matter to the appropriate court in Mumbai, as we are still challenging the quantum of the adjusted penalty.
 
 
 
 
 RR is a pure consortium of like-minded businessmen who were interested in cricket and bid for IPL team, thus the question of conflict of interest does not arise.
 
 
 
 
 With the overall valuation of IPL being at an all-time high and the increase in viewership, which has seen an unprecedented growth over the last few years, thus the demand is greater than supply. In such a scenario such reports are bound to erupt. However, we have been receiving several expressions of interests from corporates who are interested in buying a stake in our franchise. However we shall abide the process of law and BCCI rules and regulations.
 
 
 
 
 Mr. Goenka and his team has done well in establishing the Pune Franchise which was finalist in IPL season 10 and we are very proud of our association with Steve Smith, the captain of Pune team who also played as a captain of Rajasthan Royals previously.
 
 
 
 
 Yes, quite a few corporates have reached out to us with communicating expression of interest to buy stake in RR.
 
 
 
 
 Certainly, controversies have touched us at various junctures, however we are the winners of the inaugural season of the IPL, we have always been a favorite team of millions of fans and our ethos of nurturing young talent backed by great mentorship by Shane Warne and Rahul Dravid is a model which other franchisees have adopted. It was always our intent to play good cricket, we shall strive to do that going forward and not think about controversies.
 
 
 
 
 RR is eagerly looking forward to make a come-back with no hindrances.
 
 
 
 
 Franchisees benefit when they get to play in their home venues, it’s not just the cricket that gets a great impetus but also there is a tremendous boost on the marketing and ticketing front. However, certain issues are beyond our control. We will love playing in Rajasthan and will work closely with BCCI on alternate venues if required. Eventually, the aim is to play good cricket.
 
 
 
 
 Well, despite not playing for two years, there has been expression of interest in buying stake in the franchise from various corporates. Going forward, the overall IPL deal for broadcasting will be the biggest that the Indian Media industry has ever witnessed, the overall valuation of all the existing franchises will go up as tremendously.
 
