NAGPUR: There's lot more to theatre than a drama being performed. It can be used for personality development of an individual. And this is what is being attempted by   and  , who have jointly organized a 5-dayproduction theatre workshop at Babasaheb Ambedkar Hall, Chatrapati Square from July 11 to 15.

 Experts Snehalata Tagde and   from National School of Drama, JNU, New Delhi and FTI, Pune, who conducted the workshop, directed the students in several phases of theatre. The first day of workshop, which was on Tuesday, began with an improvising session involving small theatre exercises. The art of imagination and observation was presented to the students and the importance of developing a story was also discussed.
 
 Talking to TOI, Tagde said, “I will present before the students each and every last ounce of knowledge that I have acquired in my learning phase at NSD.” 
 
 “Apart from just acting there are lot many things which the students need to recognize and I will try my best to provide them with as much information as I can in these five days, “Tagde added. 
 
 Tagde believes that all new efficacies should be accepted with new vitality and uncluttered mind. An individual only requires passion to do something, rest all is automatically achieved, she added. 
 
 “The training in this workshop enables the children to develop their natural skills in acting”, said dramatist  . “This workshop involves eliminating stage fear, introduction to acting, actual performance in a play, voice intonation, personality development, direction and lot many things”, Kulsange added. 
 
 “These workshop will give students a chance to perform on stage as each one will be followed by a staging of the plays created after the workshops”, said  , founder of Bahujan Rangbhoomi. 
 
 Bahujan Rangbhoomi has completed 27 years since inception and are steering such workshops since 19 years, informed Ganvir. Archana Khobragade of Bodhi Foundation, a guest at the workshop, said, “Every school should have a subject on ‘drama’ which can satisfy the kids’ desire of acting and help them in career.”
 
