PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: A major fire gutted 20 scrap godowns and 30 to 40 scrap shops in the Kudalwadi area of Chikhli around 10.30pm on Sunday , bringing into sharp focus the problem of unauthorised scrap godowns in the area.

 While fire brigade officials are yet to ascertain the cause of the fire, they suspect someone must have deliberately set some shops on fire and that is why the fire brigade was informed well past midnight. It was controlled only around 5.30am on Monday.
 
 Nearly 1,500 scrap godowns are illegally set up in the area, and most have plastic and other inflammable material.
 
 On Sunday night, the fire started in a godown near Visava chowk in Kudalwadi, Chikhli, and quickly spread to adjacent godowns.
 
 Fire brigade officials said by the time they received a call and reached the spot, it was after midnight and the blaze had engulfed a large area. As the area is congested and has narrow roads, the fire engines faced problems navigating. The godowns that were gutted do not have compound walls and are only separated by tin sheets. This enabled the blaze to spread quicker.
 
 Five fire engines of the   were used to douse the blaze. But the blaze was so huge that fire engines from Talegaon and Hinjewadi Maharashtra Industries Development Corporation, Alandi Municipal Council, Century Enka, Tata Motors, Volkswagon and Maharash tra Natural Gas Limited had to be called in.
 
 The fire brigade removed plywood and other wooden objects to safer places, which prevented the fire from spreading further. There was heavy police bandobast to control the crowd of bystanders and to clear the roads. The smoke could be seen from KSB chowk on Telco Road in Chinchwad, which is located more than 1.5km away .
 
 Rahul Jadhav, newly-elected BJP corporator of Chikhli told TOI, “Had the fire not been controlled quickly , it would have spread to houses in nearby Jadhavwadi area.“ He added that if the fire had occurred in the southern part of Kudalwadi, it may have engulfed many houses that have 400 to 500 workers.
 
 He said that a majority of the scrap godowns are located on the residential zone in Kudalwadi and adjacent areas in Chikhli. “I will submit a letter to municipal commissioner Dinesh Waghmare demanding the unauthorized shops be removed as regular fires are posing a threat to the lives of residents nearby“.
 
 Waghmare told TOI, “We had conducted a survey of the scrap godowns. These godowns are located on private land. We have lodged a police complaint against the owner.We will also be informing the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board about the shops and request them to take action.“
 
