MOHALI: Veterinarians at the   in Phase III, Industrial Area, are fearing residents more than the  ! In a unique problem of sorts, the centre is flooded with people claiming canines picked up from their localities so that they can take them back and feed them.As soon as a van zips away after catching canines, many dog lovers start to follow the vehicle. Within minutes, they are at the centre, demanding their favourite stray dog back, without realising that the sterilization process takes three to four days. “It is very difficult to handle residents and keep them away. They keep on coming to claim the dogs saying they belong to their locality and they have to feed them every night," says a   at the centre. The centres discharges the dogs only after post-operative care. “We find it hard to make them understand that after sterilization, we will leave the dog at the same place from where it has been captured. We suggest to them that if they have to feed the dog, they should adopt that particular dog." he added.

 Some of the residents, while talking to TOI, say they have to feed the dogs and if the municipal corporation (MC) lifts them, it is not possible to find another dog. Naresh Gupta, a resident of Phase I, says, “We have a set of dogs around our house we feed daily. A MC team picks them up, leaving us no options but to go and feed dogs in other localities, which is very inconvenient."
 
 Till date, 657 stray dogs have been sterilized. Around 10 to 12 dogs are sterilized on a daily basis now, says municipal corporation commissioner  . “The doctor or other staff have not approached us with such a problem. At present, the sterilization process is going on smoothly and stray dogs are being sterilized on a regular basis," he adds.
 
 On the other hand, residents complain the sterilization drives have yielded no results as the population of canines has not decreased. Hans replies, “To get results it will take some time as this process is time-consuming. Clear results will be visible after at least one year of continuous sterilization. We will also get a stray and pet dog count conducted."
 
