AGARTALA: The   on Thursday advised the   government to review its decision to create 13,000   and social welfare departments apparently to accommodate 10,323 teachers who were rendered jobless by a  . 

 Addressing the media, TMC MLA Sudip Roy Barman alleged that the Manik Sarkar-led government took the illegal decision of filling up the newly created posts just to favour a section of unemployed candidates, depriving the genuine ones. "Four out of five types of posts like that of the academic councillor, student councillor, school library assistant and early childhood coordinator are technical in nature and teaching experience of 5 or 3 years is not sufficient. If the intention of the government is to rehabilitate the jobless teachers in these posts, they should have not taken such a decision," said Roy Barman. 
 
 He pointed out that the Tripura high court had termed the appointment of these teachers illegal and unconstitutional because the appointments were made using unfair means. This was upheld by the Supreme Court which directed the state government to terminate their service on December 31 next and take steps to fill up the posts with qualified candidates before May 31 next year.
 
 The court had also directed the state government to frame an employment policy in accordance with the 19-point guideline set by the high court before April 30. But the state government is yet to do it. "When the high court and Supreme Court made it clear that the appointment of teachers was illegal and unconstitutional, how can the government count their teaching experience against those appointments?" asked Roy Barman. 
 
 TMC also lambasted BJP Tripura state committee president Biplab Kumar Deb for his open call to all nine sitting opposition MLAs to join the party by May 31. Both Roy Barman and Trinamool state president Ashis Saha said, "We have long been trying to prevent division of anti-Left votes. But Biplab Kumar Deb's statement clearly shows that he is immature and not fit for an such important post."
 
 The BJP state president had said the nine opposition MLAs had contacted him and party's national president Amit Shah, general secretary Ram Madhav and convener of Northeast Democratic Alliance (NEDA) Himanta Biswa Sharma expressing their willingness to join BJP. He added that after May 31, none of the Opposition MLAs would be accepted and saffron party would decide its poll strategy alone. 
 
 
