KOLKATA:   and Hardik Kanodia were supposed to travel to   this summer. But after the terror attack, they have cancelled their trip to   that is home to  . If their visas come through by the first week of June, they will be off the London School of Economics for a three-week summer school. But instead of Manchester, the two students will be attending a concert of The Chainsmokers in Northern Ireland.

 It’s been a month since most travel agents in the city have begun complaining about the inordinate delay in getting a UK visa. Many travellers are skeptical that this delay might get longer after the terror attack. They fear that since there are teething problems in issuing visas under the new system, a country on high alert might take even longer for cross-checking. 
 
 Sajan Kumar Gupta, who is the eastern chapter chairman of Outbound Tour Operations of India, said he couldn’t send 40 passengers to the UK in the past one month because the visas arrived late. On May 13, a couple along with their child couldn’t fly off to the UK because their visa arrived just before the day of their departure. “This family had applied for visa on the fast track. They had applied for visa on April 27. Ideally, it should have reached them within seven working days. Instead, the visas came on May 12 and they cancelled the trip,” said Gupta, apprehending that no less than 600 passengers from here must have cancelled their UK trip because of visa issues. 
 
 Anil Punjabi, chairman (east) of the Travel Agents’ Federation of India, said this delay was because of the new scanning system introduced in the visa procedures. “This is the peak season and there are too many applicants. Right now, there is a teething problem in getting visas on time. But with days to come, the situation will get streamlined and the process will become simpler,” Punjabi said.
 
 However, Sandeep Chatterjee, owner of  , said had the attacks been in London, the impact would have been greater. “Manchester is more of a culture centre than a tourist destination. It’s a fact that we have been witness to delays in UK visa applications for the past one month. But I don’t think the Manchester attack will majorly disrupt travel plans of those heading to London,” Chatterjee said.
 
 
