MUMBAI: India has nothing much to cheer about, when it comes to its rating in Transparency International’s   (CPI), 2016, released on Wednesday at Berlin.

 The country’s rank has moved down from 76 to 79. However, as the organisation points out, this is not the best judging matrix as 176 countries were assessed in the 2016 survey, as against 168 in the previous year’s index and ranks can change depending on the number of countries covered. It is the points scored which matter more. Here, with a score of 40, a slight improvement over 38 scored in last year’s index, India’s performance is not promising. 
 
 If it is any consolation, India shares this rank and score with its BRIC counterparts, Brazil and China. 
 
 Russia, at rank 131 and a score of 29 , trails behind keeping company with India’s neighbour Nepal. Among the   countries, Singapore leads by standing at seventh position globally.
 
 In a communique to TOI, Transparency International’s   expert says: “Despite strong rhetoric by politicians on tackling corruption, India continues to stagnate in CPI with a poor score of 40 out of 100. Key legislations enabling anti-corruption infrastructure such as the Lokpal Act too often remain on the backburner of the government’s agenda when it comes to implementation. 
 
 “In cases where anti-corruption activists have achieved strong momentum, such as enacting the Whistleblowers Act, we see the government backtracking on its pledges for transparency using exemptions for other anti-corruption laws such as the Right to Information Law. In 2016, we saw the Lokpal Act being watered down through removing enabling provisions for asset declaration, a key preventative measure for any country.”
 
 “It is too early to tell if demonetisation will bring about a dramatic reduction in corruption as envisaged. However, widespread public support for such aggressive anti-corruption measures show that the Indian public is eager to tackle the scourge of corruption,” he adds.
 
 CPI-2016 indicates that none of the 176 countries assessed get a perfect score, with 69% (120 countries) scoring below 50 points, on a scale from 0 (highly corrupt) to 100 (very clean). 
 
 This year, more countries declined in the index than improved, showing the need for urgent action, says the anti-corruption global organisation.
 
 CPI ranks countries based on how corrupt its public sector is perceived to be. It is a composite index, which is a combination of surveys and assessments of corruption, collected by a variety of reputable institutions over the previous 24 months.
 
 India shares its rank (79) with its BRICS counterparts, Brazil and China. 
 
 At a rank of 131, Russia trails behind.
 
 
