NAGPUR: The fire that broke out at Bhandewadi dumping yard on Tuesday morning was man-made, says   expert Ragini Jain, who is also associated with Centre’s  .
 
 “Windrows cannot catch fire naturally on such a large scale. Their height is not more than five feet. Though the waste is dry, bio-culture is sprayed daily on them,” she told TOI.
 
 Jain said the fire cannot start spontaneously. 
 
 Adding that the fire was started by trespassers, the waste expert said lack of security was the biggest lacuna at the site. “Though we constructed toilets in nearby slums, the dwellers come to a drain near the dumping yard for defecating. On Tuesday morning, someone probably left a cigarette or bidi butt. As the weather was windy, the flames spread quickly,” Jain added.
 
 TOI has repeatedly reported about poor security at the dumping yard, which is frequently visited by ragpickers, street kids and notorious residents of nearby slums. In a recent interview with TOI, Neeri director   had suggested fencing off the yard, installing CCTV cameras and full-time security to prevent fires.
 
 Though some who visited the spot had called the fire a natural outbreak due to highly flammable methane gas and rise in temperature, Jain disagreed. “The windrows are turned upside down regularly to ensure methane is not trapped inside. The fire caused due to methane emits blue smoke,” she said.
 
 Jain has asked the   to tighten security at the site. Appointing ex-servicemen as security guards is being considered. 
 
 Considering the possibility that the staffers concerned skipped spraying bio-culture due to heat, NMC will now use the auto-spray method.
 
 “In peak summers, it becomes difficult for workers to walk around the yard and spray the culture manually. We will now use special vehicles that will have an automatic spray attached,” Jain said.
 
 The municipal body aims at clearing the dumping yard completely through bio-mining in which the dumped waste is dug up and segregated. The waste is loosened by harrowing and sprayed with composting bio-cultures.
 
 Depending on its type, the waste is then sent for recycling, reusing or composting. 
 
 It has already started the process by creating windrows of solid waste. A tender has also been floated for carrying out bio-mining at the dumping yard. Jain said bio-mining would start in full force from next month.
 
 “After creating windrows, the quantity of old solid waste has been reduced to 40-50% of what it was due to biodegradation. The same treatment is given to fresh waste, volume of which is reduced to 40%,” Jain said. 
 
 Officials of the civic body plan to segregate plastic and biodegradable waste from the windrows.
 
 In January, Jain had visited Nagpur during the three-day survey Swachh Survekshan 2017, a part of Swachh Bharat Mission. 
 
 
