Chennai: When metro rail’s underground stations open for public use, they will be one of the coolest transit hubs. Literally. With modernised ventilation and airconditioning systems (VACs), the stations will provide respite from the heat and connectivity between metro stations.

 VAC is a multipurpose system that keeps underground stations cool, ensures that air flows through the tunnels, draws out smoke during emergencies and removes heat generated by airconditioning systems and braking equipment on trains.
 
 All underground stations will be equipped with the modernised airconditioning system that Chennai   Ltd (CMRL) operators programme to maintain optimal temperature for passenger comfort, an official said.
 
 CMRL will open the city’s first underground metro line between Koyambedu and Nehru Park, a distance of about 8km, with seven stations on the stretch.
 
 Metro rail officials say they will maintained the temperature at 27ºCelsius at the platform level of all underground stations, 17m below ground level, and at 28ºC in the ticketing or concourse level, 8m beneath road level.
 
 “Passengers will be exposed to temperatures of more than 40ºC during peak summer,” an official said. “So when they walk into underground stations, the temperature should not be so low that they feel cold. A drastic change in temperature affects anyone. We decided on the temperature levels for the underground stations after several rounds of discussions.”
 
 He said the airconditioning plants will maintain set temperatures day in and day out, no matter how large the crowd is or the ambient temperature above the stations.
 
 Platform screen doors (PSDs) installed along the edge of all platforms will help retain temperature levels, apart from preventing passengers from falling on the tracks. CMRL is the first firm to install PSDs across all underground stations of metro systems in the country. Delhi’s metro is the only other similar mass transit facility to install PSDs, but has the facility only in a few stations.
 
 Metro rail officials said they studied indoor temperature before procuring equipment for these systems from countries like the UK.
 
 The ventilation systems will play a crucial role during breakdowns or train delays and in emergencies like fires, in stations and tunnels, by removing a significant amount of the heat a blaze generates. Every underground station will have four giant blower-exhaust fans installed on both sides. Dampers in front of these fans will draw out air or smoke from the station and tunnels while blowing outdoor air into the station.
 
 “We have a much better system than the metro rail manual prescribes in terms of choice of fans and other equipment,” the official said. “We studied ground temperature and procured equipment accordingly. Maintenance will be periodic like the upkeep process that we follow for trains.”
 
 
