It was a day that will go down in history for the   as Prime Minister   triggered   Article 50 on March 29 — initiating Britain’s departure from the   (EU) after 44 long years. The   letter was delivered to the EU by Brit ambassador Tim Barrow, starting a two-year countdown process for the exit. Last June, the Brexit vote caused a social storm with a country split on opinions on it. While some felt the move might fuel better trade relations, a large majority voiced anger and worries about the future. This time too, when the departure process was officially started, it set off a flurry of emotions.
 
 
  
  
 Perhaps what will be most remembered at this time, is a line from the EU council president Donald Tusk’s speech as he told  , “We miss you already”, and added that there was, “no reason to pretend that this is a happy day.” All across the UK and Europe, reactions of joy and sorrow were felt. Mike Piper, 70, of Dover, England said, “All I want to do before I die is see my country free from the shackles of Europe.” Anti-Brexit protester Ron Daniel of London stated, “I don’t accept Brexit. I don’t accept the democratic choice of Brexit. It’s racist. It’s about deporting people.” Others expressed financial concerns. Eleine Morrison, from Milton Keynes, England said, “I’m really anxious about it. It was a bad idea. I like travelling to other countries. And it will be a trouble now. The pound is weaker so it will cost more to buy the euros, and the costs of travel will be more expensive. And there will be red tape.” There were also promises of better things to come. In her letter, May added that UK and the EU should, “engage with one another constructively and respectfully, in a spirit of sincere cooperation.” But will the divorcees manage to stay good friends as hoped? Time will tell. Meanwhile, a flood of memes has hit social media, bringing about some relief and humour to an already charged situation.
 
 
  
  
 As Article 50 was triggered, it instantly drew thousands of reactions. Some partied at pro-Brexit celebrations in pubs. Others took to Twitter to vent their feelings. A microblog user posted a gif of cartoon character Lisa Simpson watching her friend fall down. Another made a playlist with the   #brexitday and one meme showed Theresa May signing the Brexit letter with the words saying “Lol, I have no idea what I’m doing’. A photo of May putting a gun with the name ‘Brexit’ in her mouth was also shared. One user even uploaded a meme of actor Alastair Sim as Ebeneezer Scrooge in the famous scene from A Christmas Carol, but with a twist.
 
 
  
  
 Apart from the actual formalities, a picture published in the Daily Mail of Theresa May and Scottish First Minister   went viral. The story had the headline, “Never mind Brexit, who won Legs-it!’ The paper reportedly had more photos of the two leaders inside with the lines: ‘Finest weapons at their command? Those pins!’ The coverage was slammed as sexist and received a backlash on social media.
 
 
 
 
 
