GURUGRAM: The Punjab and Haryana High Court on Monday is likely to decide the case related to acquisition of land of   restaurant coming in the way of under construction   at  . Even after several meeting   and land owner have failed to reach a consensus. The land owner is demanding land against land, while Huda is offering compensation for the land.

 The acquisition of around 900 meter of land of Sugandha restaurant is crucial for completion of the 1km long underpass on Hero Honda Chowk to ensure smooth flow of traffic from sector 10A side to sector 37.
 
 Earlier HC had directed Huda to resolve the issue after listening to the grievance of the land owner. In a bid to resolve the issue Huda had offered to give land owner of Sugandha restaurant alternative plot on conditional basis subject to outcome of the case pending in Supreme Court. 
 
 Huda administrator Yashpal Yadav said after going into the details of the case they tried to arrive at possible solution in accordance with the rules and court directions pertaining to land acquisition. “It would not be possible to give alternate plot under the current rules. However, we have made an offer but that would be conditional to Supreme Court directions and in case of adverse ruling they will have to accept compensation”, said Yadav.
 
 The land owner, however, refused to accept the Huda offer and insisted on unconditional allotment of alternative land.
 
 “Land is in our possession and we have never claimed compensation. We are ready to give our land for the project provided Huda gives us alternative plot,” said Sita Ram Singhla, owner of Sugandha restaurant.
 
 National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has almost completed the construction of one of the lanes (Jaipur-Delhi) of the under construction flyover at Hero Honda Chowk. The construction of another lane from Delhi-Jaipur is in advance stage.
 
 The 1.4 km long flyover and underpass were constructed as part of three-layer crossing – flyover, underpass and existing roads - at Hero Honda Chowk. The construction of underpass is also on fast track, but 900 metre land of the restaurant is coming in the alingment.
 
 
