NEW DELHI: A more judicious deployment and distribution of central forces among naxal-hit states, including their possible diversion from “now peaceful and zero-violence“ areas of   to  ' dens like Abujhmaad in  , is likely to be deliberated at a meeting of 10 chief ministers convened by Union home minister   here on May 8.

 The option is based on the observation that of the 106 Left-wing extremism-affected districts in the country, only 68 reported Maoist violence last year. Even among these, 35 districts together accounted for 90% of the incidents.
 
 Other issues set to be discussed as part of the review of counter-naxal strategy include better technical support for intelligence-based operations and turning off funding taps of Maoists.
 
 Sources in the home ministry said the meeting will discuss the recent reverses suffered by  , resulting in killing of around 37 per sonnel in April, to re-strategise the counter-naxal response. “As per the post-mortem of Sukma incident, the force had switched to a more defensive approach lately rather than keeping up the offensive. This was because a road was being built in the area and this was taking time. A defensive strategy over a long period has obviously backfired,“ said a senior home ministry official.
 
 Ministry sources said deployment of central forces needed to be reworked so that personnel retained in areas with negligible violence since 2012-13, like Midnapore in West Bengal, are moved out in consultation with the state government concerned and shifted to areas where the Maoists are indulging in most attacks. “The counter-naxal strategy has to focus on maximum deployment in 35 worsthit districts,“ said an official.
 
 Sources said the Centre will take care to get Mamata Banerjee on board before it decides to pull out forces from former Maoist dens like Jungalmahal and Midnapore, and may go in for a phased withdrawal.
 
 The May 8 interaction will also discuss how to choke the finances of Maoists. “Apart from extortion, Maoists get their funding from illegal poppy cultivation as well as illegal mining. We need to crack down on these,“ said an intelligence official. The meeting will also exhort the states to strictly enforce rules regarding storage and transport of explosives, so as to reduce pilferage by Maoists.
 
 The May 8 review will bring up the large number of police vacancies in the LWE states. “Bihar, for one, has many vacancies, particularly at the level of police constabulary . This tends to weaken the counter-Naxal grid,“ a home ministry officer said. 
 
