PALAKKAD: The district development council (DDC) meeting held here on Saturday in a resolution demanded the state government to take immediate steps to stop Tamil Nadu from diverting the waters of Palar and Nallar rivers that flow into Bharathapuzha.

 Initiating the discussion on the diversion of water, K   said the diversion of water has already resulted in Bharathapuzha and Bhavani rivers and Malampuzha reservoir going dry even during the current southwest monsoon resulting in acute irrigation and drinking water problem in the district.
 
 He urged the state government to approach the   against the illegal diversion of water by Tamil Nadu. He said Tamil Nadu was also engaged in diversion of water from   to Cauvery river basin, violating the rules framed by the central government.
 
 Joint director of the joint water regulatory board of Parambikulam-Aliyar project Sudheer Padikkal said such illegal diversion of water by Tamil Nadu has been reported to the state government.
 
 Pattambi MLA   said because of the diversion of waters of Bharathapuzha, Shoranur, Ottapalam and Pattambi are facing acute drinking water problem. Even during the current southwest monsoon there is no water in Bharathapuzha.
 
 Presiding over the meeting, district collector P Marykutty said a meeting of the officials of irrigation and inter-state water departments will be called and an investigation of the illegal water diversion by Tamil Nadu will be conducted.
 
 The meeting entrusted Ottapalam sub-collector P B Nooh to investigate the allegation of inflated estimates of Rs 14.7 crore for a work of just Rs 5 crore for Kanjirapuzha dam renovation.
 
 The MLAs complained that revenue department officials were harassing people on the entry to be made in the data bank on conversion of paddy land taken place before 2008.
 
 They said instead of gazette notifications of the data bank record already collected, the officials were asking for fresh applications with documents which are not required.
 
