NAGPUR: Almost all the techniques required for any heart ailment are available in India. But it will be another 2-3 years before the country starts the ‘mitra valve clip’ technique which is used to close the leaking of the mitral valve in the heart.

 Dr M Khalilullah told TOI that the earlier the mitral valve leak was corrected through open heart surgery. Now there is a technique available in which a clip is carried through a catheter like tool percutaneously (under the skin) from leg to the heart. The drug controller general of India is yet to clear the product and the technique. 
 
 The 81-year-old Dr Khalilullah, who studied at the   (GMCH), is the leading national cardiological consultant at Delhi and is the first doctor to design and develop pacemakers in India.
 
 Talking about the developments in the field of cardiology, Dr Khalilullah said that in the last two years India has also adopted the use of leadless pace makers. Though it is an expensive (Rs8 lakh) therapeutic equipment, it increases the lifespan of a person by 8-10 years. 
 
 He was in city for the inauguration of a two-conference on cardiology organized by the Cardiology Society of India, Nagpur chapter.
 
 In the field of heart valves too India is not far from the rest of the world. Interventional cardiologists are able to deploy aortic valves (Rs15-20 lakh) in patients between the age group of 40-50 years.
 
 Narrating his journey of life as a part of the key note address during the inauguration, Dr Khalilullah said that he developed the pace maker at the AIIMS in New Delhi in 1967. In 1971, he developed an overdrive pace maker. In 1975, he started using the electrophysiology techniques to correct arrhythmia and in 1984 started using the Cath ablation technique too. 
 
 In 1985, Dr   started using balloon vulvoplasty and switched to opening of all types of arteries in the body. By 1990 he was into closure of birth defects like the atrial septal defect and ventricular septal defect. By the 1996 he had begun using advanced pace makers for his patients. The text book of cardiology written by Dr Khalilullah is widely accepted.
 
 Reacting to the issue of fixing of prices of stents, Dr Khalilullah said that it was a very good step for the poor and middle class people. But the need is to create a conducive atmosphere for manufacture of the stents in India in collaboration with world manufacturers to reduce the price.
 
 The conference was inaugurated formally by Dr BJ Subhedar, senior physician from the city. Dr Khalilullah was key note speaker and guest of honour. Dr Aziz Khan, senior cardiologist delivered the welcome address. Dr Pankaj Harkut proposed vote of thanks. 
 
 Dr   made introductory remarks. Senior interventional cardiologist Dr Uaday Mahorkar and senior most cardiac surgeon Dr P K   were also present during the inauguration.
 
