PATNA: Former RJD MP and Siwan strongman   was taken to Delhi’s   from the Beur Central Jail here on Saturday amid high security.Mohammad Shahabuddin
 
  An armed contingent of around 30 police personnel escorted the RJD leader to Delhi on board S-2 coach of   from platform No. 2 of the Rajendra Nagar terminal here. The train is scheduled to reach Delhi early on Sunday morning.
  
  Shahabuddin is being shifted to Tihar jail following the February 15 order of a division bench of the Supreme Court comprising Justice Deepak Mishra and Justice Amitava Roy. The bench in its order directed the Nitish government to shift the RJD strongman to Tihar jail from the Siwan district jail, where he was earlier lodged, after hearing two separate petitions filed by Asha Ranjan and Chandrakeshwar Prasad aka Chanda Babu.
  
  While Asha Devi, widow of murdered journalist  , had moved the apex court to shift Shahabuddin to Tihar jail, Chandrakeshwar Prasad — whose sons Satish Raj and Girish Raj were killed by Shahabuddin by pouring acid on them — had moved the top court with the plea that Shahabuddin be shifted to any prison located outside Bihar.
  
  Prasad’s third son Rajeev Roushan — a key witness in the double murder — was also shot dead on June 16, 2015, in Siwan three days before he was to depose before a court. While Shahabuddin and four others have been awarded life imprisonment for Satish and Girish’s murder, charges have been framed against the former in the Rajeev murder case on January 5.
  
  Earlier, in a highly covert operation Shahabuddin was moved out of Siwan district jail around 2.30am on Saturday and shifted to the   here by road amidst tight security. On his arrival at the Beur jail at 6am, he was kept in the general ward for several hours before finally being taken to Delhi.
  
  Senior police officials at the state police headquarters here held a meeting to decide on the course of action to shift Shahabuddin from the Siwan district jail to the Beur jail and thereafter to the Tihar jail to comply with the Supreme Court order. The entire operation was kept highly secret to ensure that his supporters do not get to know about it.
  
  STF commandos and personnel of the Gorkha battalion of the Bihar Military Police (BMP) led by STF DSP Ramakant Prasad were roped in for the operation.
