GUWAHATI: The state government has once again turned down assistance from the   for preparing a nomination dossier for the inclusion of   in the Unesco world heritage site list. It has mentioned conflict of interest as reason for not accepting the proposal. The government wants to prepare the dossier on its own. 

 In this regard, the government has invited expression of interest (EoI) from among stakeholders to act as consultants. The deadline for submission of EoI is May 8.
 
 Sources in the state cultural affairs department told TOI on Wednesday that in 2013, the then director of Unesco and representative,  , had proposed through a letter to chief minister   that the state government sign a memorandum of understanding for developing a policy, strategy and providing assistance for the nomination of Majuli as a World Cultural Heritage.
 
 "The Unesco will not prepare the nomination dossier as a conflict of interest could arise because Unesco will approve the dossier but will not get involved directly. The proposed MoU was meant to serve a limited purpose. That was in the past. Now we are focusing on hiring consultants and not signing a MoU," said a senior official from the cultural affairs department.
 
 The Unesco, however, pursued the case through three letters to the state government even after the   government took over. "We will look into the prospects of a MoU as and when the need arises. The MoU won't serve the purpose of nomination. Let us get engaged with the consultants," added the official.
 
 In 2002, two meetings were conducted in the city with the stakeholders by the Unesco Association Guwahati. The Paris-based   was also involved.
 
 It seems Majuli's tryst with the coveted heritage tag is doomed for failure. In 2006, the then Congress government had failed miserably in submitting a nomination dossier for the World Heritage Site Status.
 
 In 2004, 2008 and 2012 there were three separate dossiers prepared by the ASI but were subsequently returned citing lack of clarification and other shortcomings.
 
 The struggle for putting Majuli, the largest river island in the world, on the heritage list has been going on since 1998 when the first dossier was prepared by the Majuli Island Protection and Development Council.
 
 It was recommended by the then state government to the Centre, which then forwarded it to the Unesco. The first dossier was received amiably but a detailed report was sought.
 
