NEW DELHI: The standoff between the government and the   over   to Allahabad high   continues with the Centre skipping a list of at least 24 recommendations made by the collegium. 

 But in three separate notifications on January 13 and 14, the government appointed 20 judges for two HCs — 16 additional judges of   whose terms were coming to an end were made permanent and four new judges were appointed for Andhra Pradesh and Telangana HC. 
 
 In a rare move earlier this month, the government had referred 19 recommendations for Allahabad HC back to the apex court collegium for its reconsideration for the second time over some ‘procedural’ issues. This was the third time that the government had deferred their appointments cleared by the SC collegium. 
 
 Though the government continued to have objections over the list of recommendations made by the collegium for Allahabad HC, it had in December appointed 10 additional judges for the HCs of Gauhati, Karnataka, Punjab & Haryana and Patna. Besides the 19 recommendations, which were first sent by the SC to the government in August 2016, there was another list of eight sent in January last year for appointment to Allahabad HC. The government appointed three from the January list and kept five cases pending, sources said. Most of the recommendations deferred by the government are recommendations made from the bar of Allahabad and Lucknow benches. 
 
 The Centre’s reluctance initially was for inclusion of relatives of former judges and politicians in the original list of recommendations made by the HC collegium. Though the SC collegium is believed to have dropped many such controversial names, the government sent back 19 recommendations again for reconsideration. These 19 were part of the 36 the SC had reiterated in November. Some appointments have been made from the list of 36, but all of them belonged to the state judicial service, none from the bar. 
 
 The confrontation between the higher judiciary and the government, sources said, was over the first set of recommendations made for Allahabad HC in January last year where the SC collegium is believed to have recommended only eight out of 19 advocates approved by the HC collegium, rejecting 11. There were some notable exclusions which, a source said, did not go down well with the government.
 
