Trichy: The forum for education development in Tamil Nadu called for measures to encourage government schools in the state. Apart from increasing funds for state run schools, the forum also asked the government to stop endorsing private schools, which are responsible for pushing many government schools to the verge of closure. 

 “Schools run for central government employees are much sought after for their quality of education, said forum coordinator S Moorthy. But the state government spends only one tenth of what the union government spends for its schools. 
 
 Union government runs schools for its employees, but state government schools are meant for poor people in the state, rather it has made the public to believe so, by encouraging private schools, he said. 
 
 Reputation of the state run schools are spoiled to the extent that even the poor want their children to study in private schools. Many government schools are on the verge of closure as private schools are increasing in number. The government schools could be strengthened by improving quality of education on par with Kendriya Vidyalaya.
 
 Welcoming the move from the state government to abolish ranking system, V Vasanthi Devi, former vice-chancellor, Manonmaniam Sundaranar University said that the move is a step towards encouraging government schools.
 
 Though the system should have been abolished long back, she said such practice apart from putting students under enormous pressure has also triggered insane competition among private schools. Batting for complete overhaul of the education system in the state, she said government must take models from developed countries which follow common school system through neighborhood schools.
 
 “Unlike here, approach oriented pedagogy is followed in developed countries where stress is on understanding of the subject,” she said. Members of the federation also asked the government to start kindergarten at government and corporation schools.
 
 Citing an Allahabad high court order which make government employees mandatory to put their children in government schools, Moorthy endorsed for the implementation of the order in Tamil Nadu.
 
 The forum also asked for introduction of Tamil as medium of instruction in all schools and board examination in 11th standard as well. S Moorthy said that they are conducting talks with the federation of government school teachers to strengthen government schools. 
 
 
