AHMEDABAD: It seem that there will be no relief for parents even after the state legislative assembly passed the Gujarat   (Regulation of Fees) Bill 2017. While parents hoped to pay fees for their wards’ upcoming academic year according to the new structure proposed by the government, the   (APS) has decided to continue levying their existing fees for three months more months.

 Fees will be levied as decided by the committee after that. APS has also put into practice a code of conduct to prevent certain schools from levying fees for the entire year at once. APS members met in Ahmedabad on Tuesday, where some crucial decisions were taken. Some 30 schools in Ahmedabad are members of APS.
 
 Currently, schools are confused about charging fees especially with the new structure proposed by the government. On why they could not charge fees as proposed by the government, members said the structure does not apply to private schools.
 
 M P Chandran, spokesperson, APS, said, “If we reduce the fees to as low as what the government has proposed, our internal budget will go for a toss and we will not be able to run the institute effectively with such limited funds.”
 
 Another association member,  , said, “If the fees of all 2,600 private schools across the state will have to be changed, it will take at least six or eight months and it will become difficult to run the schools.”
 
 The associations members did not know if teachers at these schools were paid in accordance with the   recommendations. When asked if they would reduce the fees, they said that they do not want to compromise on quality and are therefore unwilling to reduce fees.
 
 APS wants new fee structure from 2018
 
 Members of APS made a representation to the government, seeking that the new fee structures be implemented with effect from the next academic year i.e. 2018-19. The members also raised the issue of quality of education and asked to form a committee to ensure quality of education, just like the fee regulatory committee. The quality education committee must probe how schools maintain the quality of education. They were of the opinion that students pay more for coaching classes and therefore, government must intervene in the matter and take action.
 
 
