The capital city was recently witness to an event titled ‘Celebrating Menstruation’ to spread awareness among the public about menstruation. The one day-long event held at   has been organised by the   (SMKC), which has members from Thanal Trust, The Red Cycle, Haiku, CodeRed and Happy To Bleed community groups. As a part of the awareness programme the organisers had arranged an expo which featured the exhibition and sale of alternative products to sanitary napkins, which are difficult to dispose of and allegedly cause health issues. The stall featured products such as   and reusable and eco-friendly cloth pads.

 The event, says one of its organisers Shradha Sreejaya, a volunteer from SMKC, succeeded in putting across a message to the public including men about menstruation, still considered as a taboo topic in society. “The country started to have open discussions about   only after the national campaign #HappyToBleed. The expo was welcomed by the womenfolk and to our surprise, many men as well. Some of the men enquired about cloth pads while some were more curious and asked if it is safe to use menstrual cups. A youngster came to us to enquire about menstrual cups which he wanted to gift his fiancé on her birthday. It is definitely a big step to hold such an expo, they feel. The students from city schools were given awareness sessions on menstruation. Around 12 menstrual cups which are made of silicon material and almost all cloth pads were sold.”
 
 Meanwhile, Neetha Nair, a school teacher from Cotton Hills Girls Higher Secondary School, Vazhuthacaud, pointed out that sanitary pads are not a viable option in the long run. “I work in a girls’ school and am very much aware of the issues we face while dispose the pads on a daily basis. As the city corporation does not collect napkin waste, we are hunting for alternatives. Burning them is not a scientific solution as it causes air pollution. I bought a menstrual cup which costs around ` 1000. I will suggest it to my colleagues and students after using it. The organisers have assured me that I can use a single cup for 10 years which is easy on the pockets too.”
 
 Dinesh Reghunathan, scientific officer at Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Biotechnology and a volunteer at the event says it’s time to break the taboo. “Being a boy I was not aware of the phenomenon of menstruation. Though we have female friends we were told only about their ‘days of stomach pain’. It is high time we educate both sexes about the menstrual cycle. Men are also brothers, friends, sons and dads. There is a belief that during menstruation a women is impure. Can blood make her impure? One of the temples in Chengannur believes that its deity, goddess Parvathi too has menstrual cycles like common women. So why there is partiality between Gods and humans? My opinion is that such biological processes should be included in the academic curriculum and hopefully at least the coming generation becomes aware of it.”
 
