For diabetics it is vitally important that they learn to care for their nails. Nails protect our fingers and toes from injury and trauma. In  , the sensation in the fingers and toes decreases, and poor or neglected feet often lead to ulceration, infection and even amputation.

 Diabetic people are more susceptible to a   called as  , and approximately 50% of all nail infections arc onychomycosis. In onychomycosis, nails become thick and brittle with sharp edges that can cause injury to surrounding skin Ignored small cuts on fingers and toes are home for such fungal and bacterial infections. An untreated infection can lead to foot ulcer and gangrene. Many people with diabetes have lost a part or whole foot due diabetic foot ulcers. Thus, it is important to protect your nail from developing such conditions. 
 
 Several pathways can lead to ulceration in patients with diabetic neuropathy including biomechanical issues causing calluses to stepping on a foreign body and ignored dystrophic, mycotic and neglected toenail. According to studies, one in three patients with diabetes has onychomycosis and diabetics are 2.77 times prone to this infection compared to non-diabetics. An untreated infection can lead to foot ulcer and gangrene. Many people with diabetes have lost a part or the whole foot due diabetic foot ulcers. Thus, it is important to protect your nail from developing such conditions.
 
 The best way t0 keep nails free from fungus is to have good hygiene. Ensure to keep fingernails and toenails clean and always dry your feet before putting on socks and shoes A diabetic person should only wear comfortable and well-fitting shoes with synthetic socks that will wick moisture away from the skin of the foot. Always wear shoes or sandals while using public shower facility or public pools. Do not use artificial nails as they trap water under the pails and this moisture will promote fungus growth. Moreover, keep your   kit clean and sterilize it with alcohol every time before use.
 
 You can prevent serious complications of diabetic foot like amputation resulting from a dystrophic fungus infested toenail; just remember the importance of nail care and make it a routine.
 
 
 
 
