MUMBAI: Former legislators, ex-mayors and multiple-term corporators, who had lost out on tickets due to reservation in their wards in the 2007 and 2012 BMC polls, seem to have found a new lease of life. 

 The   and the   are fielding ‘winning’ candidates in the forthcoming civic polls in many crucial seats. 
 
 Political observers said the split between the BJP and the Shiv Sena has given many veterans a shot in the arm as parties want candidates who have a good track record and voter-connect. 
 
 In Dadar’s Shivaji Park, the Shiv Sena has pitted former Mayor Vishaka Raut against MNS corporator Sandeep Deshpande’s wife, Swapna. “I still believe in door-to-door campaigning even though social media has become popular among most candidates. While I have used it (social media) to reach a larger audience, nothing helps more than meeting voters personally,” said Raut.
 
 Another heavyweight in the race for the municipal elections, who has been pulled out from the cold storage, is Shiv Sena’s former mayor Milind Vaidya. The 52-year-old leader, who started out as a corporator in 1992, is a aspirant from Mahim-2012 had to take a back seat in the previous elections after his ward got reserved for ladies. Vaidya alleged that the MNS corporator who was elected from the Mahim ward during the previous term has done little work. “My rival’s inaction is sure to benefit me in the coming elections,” he added. 
 
 Ashish Chemburkar, a former BEST committee chairman, is the Shiv Sena’s candidate from Adarsh Nagar in Worli. Rajul Patel, another Shiv Sena ex-corporator, is in the fray this time round. She contested the civic elections for the first time in 1992 and has been a corporator for three terms in the past. “In 2012, my ward was reserved for a male OBC candidate and I contested from Lokhandwala, another area, but lost. But in the last five years, I have been an integral part of the Shiv Sena’s women’s wing and kept working at shakhas,” said Patel. 
 
 The BJP too has recalled its veterans. Former corporator Kamlesh Yadav from Kandivli who served in the BMC is in the fray. “I continued to do party work after the 2012 elections,” said Yadav. Another BJP stalwart in the race is two-term corporator Bhalchandra Shirsat. “This time I am going to contest from Pant Nagar, which is where I reside,” said Shirsat. 
 
 The split between the saffron alliance is also one of the factors due to which the parties have given old-timers a chance. 
 
 The   also seems to be taking the same route of bringing back old hands. Ravi Raja, a nominated BEST committee member, is in the race. Raja was a corporator from 1992-2012. However, his ward was reserved for an OBC candidate in 2012. The Congress has fielded him again in view of his popularity. 
 
