Chennai: The aggregate topline of companies in key sectors — excluding BFSI (banking, financial services, insurance) and oil — is estimated to have grown by about 7% year-on-year in the first quarter of the current fiscal (2017-18), ratings agency Crisil said. These sectors account for nearly 61% of the market capitalisation of NSE-listed companies.

 “The growth rides on a pickup in consumption, though it remains range-bound at 6%-8% for the sixth straight quarter since the breakout in Q4 FY16 (2015-16) from 0%-2% in the preceding four quarters,” the agency said. “Consumption-driven sectors, including automobiles, airlines, FMCG and retail, but excluding telecom, are estimated to have grown at a healthy pace of 10%-11%,” said Prasad Koparkar, senior director, Crisil Research.
 
 “This is heartening, considering growth had slowed following demonetisation to 4%-7% in the second half of fiscal 2017 (2016-17). Even commodity-linked sectors are expected to have done well, led by a robust increase in realisations in crude oil, steel and aluminium, and moderate growth in demand,” he said.
 
 “However, export-linked sectors such as IT (information technology) and pharmaceuticals, which had consistently outperformed the domestic industry by recording double digit growth, are expected to have slowed down to only 3%, amidst a strengthening rupee, a surge in protectionism across the globe and pricing pressure in the US,” Crisil said.
 
 “Growth for the quarter would have been higher but for the Goods and Services Tax (GST), since manufacturers are expected to have limited production to clear existing inventory — especially in automobiles, FMCG (fast moving consumer goods) and cement — before it took effect,” the agency said.
 
 “On the profitability front, a rise in inputs costs and pricing pressure is expected to impact margins. In fact, 60% of the sectors, accounting for over 52% of the industry EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortisation), are expected to have seen margin contraction,” Crisil said. “Overall, EBITDA margin is expected to decline by about 120 bps (1.2%) to 20.4%,” it said.
 
 “A rise in prices of key commodities such as crude oil, steel, aluminium and cement is expected to have pared the profitability of end-user sectors such as automobiles, petrochemicals, housing and tyres by about 130, 230, 330 and 470 bps, respectively,” said Rahul Prithiani, director, Crisil Research.
 
 “The margin contraction could be much higher for pharma, at 550 bps, given pricing pressure and lack of exclusivity period for generic drugs. IT services could, however, have withstood pricing pressure given the rising share of high-margin digital services,” he said.The outlook would improve for 2017-18, Crisil said. “Rural demand should pick up driven by favourable monsoon, farm loan waivers and higher MSP (minimum support price) for crops,” it said. “However, further acceleration in growth would ensue only with meaningful pick-up in private sector investments which is still a few quarters away,” the agency stated.
 
 
