PUNE: The grounded fleet of indigenously made Arjun Mark-I tanks is soon to be operationalised as the Army has found the required imported components and addressed snags in the tanks. 

 About 75% of the 124 tanks with the Army were grounded one-and-a-half-year ago.
 
 Major General P Dixit, Commandant of Armoured Corps Centre and School (ACC&S), an institute which carries out various courses for Armoured Corps officers, said: “The snags in the tanks were identified thoroughly. The fleet was grounded as we were not getting imported components for the tanks. Now we are getting the components and the fleet will be operationalised in the coming months.”
 
 The Army has inducted around 125 Arjun tanks developed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation and manufactured by state owned Heavy Vehicles Factory at Avadi in Chennai. 
 
 A senior official from HVF, Avadi, said: “The entire fleet of the tanks was grounded for more than a year which was a major setback for the Army. However, the   had set up a special committee comprising experts from DRDO, HVF and senior Army officers to find foreign manufacturers who could supply the spare parts.” The parts are coming from various countries, including Germany. Because of the tedious procurement process, it is getting delayed eventually affecting repairs of the tanks, the official added. 
 
 Speaking on the progress of Arjun Mark-II, Maj Gen Dixit clarified that the prototype of the tank has been developed. “But it is yet to come to a formidable stage.” 
 
 Interestingly, two months ago, the government had hinted at buying advanced T-90 tanks from Russia, sidelining DRDO’s Arjun Mark-IIs.
 
 Sources in Armoured Corps said the Arjun Mark-I was affected by a range of snags in its transmission system, thermal imaging sights and accuracy, among others. “As a result, the Army is not showing much interest in Arjun Mark-II. The Army has already suggested over 70 improvements in the tank,” they added.
 
 When asked on the induction of advanced T-90 tanks, Maj Gen Dixit welcomed the development and said, “As our roles are expanding so any induction of new equipment as per government policy is beneficial for us. And, T-90 is the state-of-the-art tank”.
 
