BENGALURU: The enchanting smell of jasmine and camphor filled the afternoon air on Saturday at the 18th century Dharmaraya temple at Nagarathpet, central Bengaluru, which is hosting Karaga, one of Bengaluru’s oldest festivals. 

 This year, 39-year-old priest A Jnanendra will carry the Karaga, a floral pot made of soil. The priest has been on a mouna vrutha ever since the festivities kickstarted at the Draupadi temple on April 3. During the festival time, the priest would live a renounced life. On April 13, the full moon day, Jnanendra will lift the Karaga for the seventh time, continuing his ancestors’ tradition.
 
 K Lakshman, 75, who has been witnessing Karaga for the past 65 years, recalled what Jnanendra had told him about the rituals. “Lifting Karaga is not a mechanical work. It’s a spiritual practice where one balances the body as well as the mind. If we balance our mind, lifting the Karaga is as easy as lifting a flower. When mind is not pure and balanced, this seems impossible as it weighs heavily,” Lakshman said. 
 
 Every road to Tigalarapet get decked up during the 11-day festival which begins with Dwajarohan (flag hoisting). Houses are illuminated and decorated with mango leaves and flowers. Panaka (juice made of jaggery and fruit) are distributed. “Various ceremonies will be held on these days and on the night of April 13 , the priest would enter the temple with Karaga on his head, dancing to the tune of folk songs. The festival comes to an end with the priest placing the Karaga down, offering prayer to Draupadi and making a promise that the festival would be held in the coming year too,” Lakshman added. 
 
 BOXES
 
 The story behind
 
 People from Tigala community, also known as  , believe the legend from the Mahabharata where the Pandava queen Draupadi took the help of their community members when she was in trouble. All Pandavas were ascending the heaven when Draupadi fell unconscious. Pandavas failed to notice her and continued walking. To fight a demon called Timirasura, Draupadi created the Tigala community. They fought valiantly and defeated Timirasura. Pleased with Tigalas, Draupadi promised them that she would come back to earth once in a year. 
 
 The dargah connect
 
 There are five types of Karagas---Onake Karaga, Chombina Karaga, Chitta Gopura Karaga, Patada Kunita and Hasi Karaga. As a symbol of communal harmony, the procession will halt at the   near Majestic. The Karaga priest will take salutation from the moulavis. Different types of performances are the highlight of the festival. Veerakumaras dance and hit their swords against their bare chests.
 
 Where’s it? 
 
 To take part in the procession, head to Tigalarapet by passing the Ulsoor Gate police station opposite Hudson Circle. The road on the left side of the station leads to the temple. 
 
