KOLKATA: In school, he was branded as an Attention-deficit Hyperactivity patient. But in reality,   has been drawing attention for his skill at playing the tabla. The Class XII student is also the subject of a short film titled ‘Bouncing Back With Beats’ that will be screened at the   on May 13.

 Directed by  , ‘Bouncing Back with Beats’ is aimed at creating awareness against child abuse and atrocities in schools. According to his parents, Subhadrakalyan himself was a victim of such atrocities. He started learning tabla from Pt Shankar Ghosh when he was all of three-and-a-half years. Having already performed on national television and various music festivals, the teenager is also a recipient of the Jadubhatta Award by the  . Recently, one of his short performances went viral on social media with more than 12 lakh views on Facebook 
 
 According to his father, Dr Arindam Rana, his son's initial experiences in school has been very disturbing. “His ‘teachers’ did not care about his talent. He was even branded as an ADHD patient by those ‘teachers’ who couldn’t even give the full form of the term!” said Rana, who has done the research and penned the script of the film.
 
 On being asked how Subhadrakalyan was motivated after facing such adversities in school, he said, “We trusted our child rather than the ‘teachers’ who complained against him. We took him to watch cinema, plays, music programmes, bought him classic story books and CDs. We told him that there are different kinds of people on earth and we have to adjust with them.”
 
  
  
 
 Those who have watched Subhadrakalyan’s performances live or on video clips circulated via social media are impressed by his talent. Tabla Taranga, which he specialises in, is a melodic percussion instrument that is played with multiple drums. In a tabla pair instrument, the ‘dayan’ is the treble drum and the ‘bayan’ is the bass drum. Tarang means ‘waves’. By hitting with the hand at the center of the different ‘dayan’ drums, notes of different pitches are produced like a bell ringing. The player is able to perform melodies based on several ragas. 
 
 “When Subhadrakalyan was just above 4, he witnessed Pt Shankar Ghosh’s orchestra at Swabhumi. After returning home, he tried to repeat the same with cooking utensils. Six years later, Ghosh wanted to start a new children orchestra group where he asked Subhadrakalyan to play Tabla Taranga. But guruji told him that he wanted Subhadrakalyan to learn and develop it by himself,” his parents said.
 
 Saturday’s film screening is not just about showcasing Subhadrakalyan's talent. From dishonest doctors to myopic teachers who are up in arms against parents if they complain about unethical practices – the film shows a lot more than just a talented boy. The makers are hoping that this screening will create awareness about the potential dangers of not understanding the needs of individual students and forcing them to only walk the beaten path.
 
 
