 Saikia, the 26-year-old security guard at  , who is accused of murdering   OP, has sought bail. He has filed an application before the District and Session Court on March 31 on the grounds that the cops have no proof of his involvement in the murder and that his detention is baseless.
 
  The bail application filed by his lawyers — advocates Tosif C Shaikh, Sajid B Shah and BA Aloor — stated that police have not been able to link him directly to the crime so far.
  
  He has claimed that they have been insisting that he killed   in a fit of rage after she rebuked him for staring at her. The application states that Bhaben did not know Rasila from before, had no axe to grind or motive to kill her, and does not have any criminal record either.
  
  The application goes on to state that if the cops’ theory of cold-blooded murder is to be believed, Bhaben should have wiped off the evidence and hidden the body. He did neither. It also questions the police’s story that he took the access card from Rasila to enter the room and subsequently killed her. The bail application states that since Rasila was an educated person, she would not have given her access card to someone who was apparently staring at her a day ago and making her uncomfortable.
  
  The lawyers have stated that Bhaben has been made a ‘scapegoat’ and that investigators have not bothered to investigate the involvement of Infosys employees in the murder. The application states that though there are complaints of indecent behaviour against some employees by Rasila’s family, cops have chosen only to blame it all on Bhaben “who is a poor person and no investigation has been done against those (Infosys) officials”. It also states that Infosys has paid Rs 1crore compensation to Rasila’s family only to “hide the truth and real facts as well as conceal the involvement of the company and its officers”.
  
  Most importantly, the bail application states that cops are yet to ascertain Bhaben’s mental stage. The lawyers have hinted at the fact that if at all Bhaben is believed to have committed the crime, he was not in the right frame of mind then. They have sought his release from jail, where he has been since February 7.
  
  Rasila was found murdered inside Infosys Phase II campus in the evening of January 29. She had been murdered around 5.30 pm and her body was found a good two hours later. She was working alone in the office on a Sunday and coordinating with her team members in Bengaluru. When she stopped responding to them the team members raised an alarm and informed her manager, who then alerted the security on campus. A couple of hours later, the security personnel were able to gain access to the room where she was lying in a pool of blood. She had been strangled to death with a computer cable.
  
  That very evening cops zeroed down on Bhaben as their prime suspect, who had left work and also fled from his home. He was caught in the wee hours from   station in Mumbai. Thereafter, he was produced before magistrate on January 30 and remanded to police custody till January 7 and later sent to jail under magisterial custody. Ever since his arrest, Bhaben’s mother, who lives in   district, Assam, hasn’t come to Pune to meet him.
