Four years ago, stainless steel buckets lined the low ceilings of  's home. They swung gently around the fan in his living room and got reflected in the windscreen of his spanking-new car parked in the garage. Maskar, a resident of Kolaregaon near Neral, won all 600 'baltis' for owning bullocks that placed first in races across  . 

 A year ago, the buckets were pulled off the ceiling and put into storage. The ban against the sport had been in place for three years and Maskar found the sight of his shiny trophies too depressing. "They weren't fun to look at anymore," he said. "I would see them and think of the good old days." 
 
 But the current agitation in   over the jallikattu ban has made him and other racing enthusiasts hopeful that a similar movement will emerge in Maharashtra. "We should be inspired by the people of Tamil Nadu," said Maskar. "See how actors and politicians there have rallied around the sport. Here, there was no one to support us." Since the ban, however, the racing community has set up an organization to represent their interests. 
 
 The sport was first banned in 2011 when a notification issued by the central government in The Gazette of India made using bulls as performing animals illegal. That same year, the state government lifted the ban on castrated bulls. In 2012, animal rights activists petitioned the Bombay High Court to protect all bulls and won the case. Eventually, the issue reached the  , which allowed racing to continue after imposing certain guidelines. But after activists presented the SC with proof of animal rights violations, it re-instated the ban in a 2014 judgment. 
 
 On its website, PETA claims they have documentation to show that bulls are tortured in order to make them run. "They are hit with everything from bare hands to nail-studded sticks, and their tailbones are broken at each joint," writes PETA. But owners insist these are outdated practices and their pedigreed 'khilad' bulls are pampered more than their children. "They are massaged every morning, bathed in the river with Clinic Plus shampoo, fed an egg once a week and given three litres of milk every night," says Maskar. His neighbour Samir Minmine has even installed a fan in his cowshed to keep his bulls comfortable in the summer months. 
 
 Maskar's mobile has only pictures of bulls not his children. There's a photo of Maharaj, who costs an eye-popping Rs 25.5 lakh, and the pearly-white Lakshya, who "runs faster than a train". Both Maskar and Minmine continue to buy bulls in the hope that the ban is soon lifted. Maskar currently owns five, while Minmine has three. They spend about Rs 200 a day on each bull's upkeep. Since the races have stopped, the price of these bulls has fallen drastically affecting the rural economy. Maskar's Teja, for instance, would have fetched Rs 3 lakh on the racing circuit but now he's worth just Rs 25,000. Bull owners also argue that Maharashtra's khilad breed will die out if there's no demand for speedy bulls since they were never used to plough fields or transport loads.
 
 When Maskar buys a new bull, he pairs it with a veteran. This teaches the newbie the basics of running, he explains. And as soon as the new bull sports two front incisors, he's ready to race. Some of his star bulls-"I've owned more than the hair on my head," he quips -realized what was in store the moment his wife performed an Aarti on them the morning of the race. "They would be rearing to go long before the flag off," recalls Maskar. "And if they lost, they would refuse food after coming home." Winning bulls, however, would be felicitated with 'gulal' and given mineral water to drink. 
 
 Some of the fastest bulls can run 600ft in just 20 seconds. The rider-usually hired by the owner for a small fee or even a bottle of booze-would sit atop a light, aerodynamic cart. One racing enthusiast calls it the "Ferrari" of bullock carts. Races -held during village 'yatras' -would attract crowds of over 6,000. Winners could win up to Rs 10,000 as well as gifts like two-wheelers and of course the infamous stainless steel buckets. 
 
 Most people insist these races have stopped but one Gorai resident says they still take place on the sly. She adds that gambling is rampant and men often sell fields and property in their bid to buy faster bulls.
 
 
