GHAZIABAD: As the government agencies in   remained apathetic towards the civic needs of the city, residents of   area took up infrastructure works on their own. In the past one year, they have installed speed breakers in interior roads as well as 35   cameras for security purposes all from using money from residents’ pockets. The works were undertaken by the Kaushambi Apartments RWAs (KARWA) with funds collected by residents.

 However, problems faced by residents did not end there. The police need CCTV footages from the cameras on a regular basis for investigations into chain and cellphone snatching incidents that occur in the area frequently, but would not send a technician to extract the footage. Residents were forced to get video clips culled from the main footage, have them saved into a computer and send them to the police station in CD format themselves instead.
 
 As a result, residents had to employ a technician for aiding the cops with its errands on a monthly salary of Rs 10,000, again out of funds collected by residents.
 
 “The only job that the technician does is to provide CDs of CCTV footage required by the police. First, we spent money on safety of roads and corners. Next, we have to spend money to assist cops. There is a request from cops almost on a daily basis for some special footage. Our office-bearers are busy at work, and can’t be at the beck and call of police,” said KARWA president Vinay Mittal.
 
 Eight speed breakers were installed in the interior roads at a cost of Rs 3.75 lakh in February. Work on installing 35   was completed in July last year. According to KARWA members, the decision to install the speed breakers was taken after a number of freak accidents caused by speeding in the interior lanes. The CCTV cameras were similarly installed owing to increasing instances of bikers snatching chains and mobile phones from pedestrians.
 
 When contacted, Ghaziabad Municipal Corporation (GMC) officials said they were unable to undertake the works due to lack of funds. 
 
 “The CCTV system installed in the township does not belong to the police department. We are not aware about the technicalities of the system. It is controlled and managed entirely by residents of the area. Whenever we need assistance in terms of footage from the cameras for investigations into any particular case, we request residents. They generally comply with the requests,” said PK Tripathi, SHO of Indirapuram police station.
 
 
