PANAJI: All that   ever wanted as a child was a bat and a ball. Each time she damaged the bat or lost the ball, she would demand for more and her father unfailingly bought home another pair.

 On Thursday, minutes after India stunned defending champions Australia to enter the final of the   Women’s   in England, the Indian pacer called home and this time, her father Subhash Pandey had a demand: “We want the Cup.”
 
 Originally from Uttar Pradesh, the Pandeys landed in Goa over two decades ago and since then have made the sunny state their home. “As a child, Lali was like a tomboy and played  . Sometimes, there were not enough girls to play with her, so she joined the boys. It was fun watching her play,” said her father.
 
 On Sunday, when Shikha takes to the field, the Pandeys, who reside on the outskirts of the city at Pilerne, will be glued to their TV sets to watch their Lali play the biggest match of her life.
 
 Shikha has been in an impressive form, at least in the last two matches. In the crucial must-win last league encounter against New Zealand and the semifinal against Australia, it was Shikha who provided the early breakthroughs.
 
  Against New Zealand, she grabbed a wicket with her first ball, while against Australia it was the second ball that did the trick.
 
 “She has done excellently with her first spell. I only wish she gets more overs. She can do much better than what everyone has seen at the World Cup,” said her coach Devika Palshikar.
 
 Having been a former international and assistant coach with the Indian cricket team, Palshikar knows what she is talking. She’s been in touch with Shikha—Air Force employee—all through the tournament and knows the Goan all-rounder has more to offer.
 
 The stats also justify Palshikar’s belief in her ward. Shikha, who turned 27 last week, has grabbed eight wickets in the six matches that she has played and her economy rate of 3.69 is among the best in the tournament. In six matches, she has only bowled 36 overs, never once completing her full quota of overs.
 
 “The captain needs to trust her more. She is a fierce competitor and I am sure that she will again provide the breakthrough. If she gets more overs in her second spell, she will add more wickets to her kitty,” said the Pune-based Palshikar.
 
 Palshikar is not the only one who is hoping for a win. At Pilerne, the Pandeys are confident that India will lift the Cup. “We have the ladoos ready,” said her father.
 
 
