Visakhapatnam:   or Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) is a form of pervasive developmental and neurological disorder characterised by impaired social interaction, delayed and deviant speech and communication, restricted, repetitive stereotyped patterns of behaviour, interests and activities. The symptoms become apparent usually before the age of three.

 Medical surveys show the prevalence of autism has risen in the last two decades to around 1/150. In India, the prevalence varies from 1/500 to 1/150 children. Research in the west links autism to Down’s Syndrome and late parenthood besides other genetic and environmental factors. Dr C Radhakanth, who is associated with Vivek Institute that treats autistic children, said, “When fatherhood happens post 35 years of age, risk of Fragile X Syndrome (FMR1 gene) or dislocation of the chromosome and genetic mutation goes up. Exposure to environmental toxins during conception, genetic vulnerability and damage to the brain due to trauma or difficult labour, pre and perinatal complications, late parenthood are some of the potential risk factors for autism and has led to an increase in the number of autistic kids. Mental retardation and seizures affect 40 per cent of ASD.”
 
 In autistic children, poor social interaction is manifested as lack of eye contact, idiosyncratic facial expressions, gestures and posture, poor age appropriate peer relationships, and a lack of spontaneous sharing by showing, pointing or bringing objects of interest to other people with a lack of reciprocity at a social or emotional level. They suffer from a lack of understanding of theory of mind that is they can’t put themselves in others’ shoes to understand what could be going on in their minds. However, they can excel in rote memory and special skills such as music, calculations and painting. Such children may have below or above average IQ level. “Self-help skills, social skills, academic skills, occupational therapy and speech-language therapy and vocational training are useful for such children. High functioning autistic children complete graduation and most of them reach up to tenth standard unless they have concomitant mental retardation. Applied Behavioral Analysis is the best method of psycho social intervention. In institutions a TEACCH (Treatment and Education of Autistic and related Communication Handicapped) approach is useful,” added Dr Radhakanth.
 
 
