With uncertainty over the resolution of bad loans still persisting after the   (RBI) revised the norms on NPAs (non-performing assets), shares of   (PSBs) have taken a beating on the bourses. Interestingly, the scrips of several PSBs hit their 52-week highs only early this month, just before the RBI announced the new norms, on hopes of a drop in bad loans.

 Shares of leading PSBs including   (SBI) and Bank of Baroda (BOB) have fallen sharply since hitting their yearly highs. While the Punjab National Bank (PNB) scrip has plunged 20.5% from its peak, Canara Bank and BOB saw a 15% and 13.2% fall in their share prices. The SBI scrip has lost 10.1% after touching its 52-week high on May 19.
 
 RBI’s framework released early this month aims at early detection of stressed assets and timely implementation of a prompt corrective action (PCA) to preserve the economic value of the assets. Any non-adherence to instructions and timelines specified under the framework shall attract monetary penalties, the apex bank said. RBI has also brought down the net NPA levels required to include the bank under PCA framework to 6% now as against 10% earlier.
 
 “Selling pressure continued in PSU banking as RBI’s action plan on tackling NPAs failed to provide clarity on the resolution of outstanding NPAs and concerns over the quantum of haircut the banks will take immediately,” said Vinod Nair, head, research, Geojit Financial Services. 
 
 “Net NPAs have not bottomed out for most PSBs,” said G Chokkalingam, founder and managing director, Equinomics Research and Advisory. “There is no certainty about when the recovery would happen. It is going to be a long drawn process,” he said.
 
 Based on the revised PCA framework, a total of 16 PSBs out of 21 (excluding SBI's associates) and two out of 16 private banks will require mandatory corrective actions that include raising capital levels, restricting dividend payment, management compensation and branch expansions.
 
 Incidentally, RBI has already initiated PCA on two PSBs—IDBI Bank and UCO Bank. The apex bank has also mandated banks to increase the provision coverage on the NPAs for remaining outside the PCA framework. 
 
 PSBs were among the biggest losers on the bourses declining by over 2% on an average on Wednesday. United Bank of India slumped by 5.06% and was followed by Allahabad Bank (4.8%),   (4.2%), Bank of Maharashtra (3.8%) and Bank of India (3.7%).
 
 PSBs are sitting on a huge pile of bad loans. Five PSBs reported net NPAs in excess of 10% at the end of March this year. Indian Overseas Bank had net NPAs of 13.99% and was followed by IDBI Bank (13.21%), Dena Bank (10.7%), Central Bank of India (10.2%) and United Bank of India (10.02%). Net NPAs of several PSBs are dangerously close to the 10% mark. Several PSBs reported a huge fall in net profits during 2016-17.
 
  
  
