THANE: As many as 900 residential and commercial unit holders who have collectively defaulted on   of Rs 80 crore as property taxes are likely to face the heat now as the administration is planning to initiate stern action including attachment and auction of their respective properties to recover the dues.

 The decision was arrived at a closed door meeting recently held between senior officials after municipal commisioner Sanjeev Jaiswal reportedly expressed his displeasure over the poor recovery of taxes. The administration is presently in the process of despatching notices to these  , spread across the city, following which it is likely to start sealing and seizing their properties as mandated by the   municipal act and provision of taxation rules. 
 
 A recent review of the tax recovery for the previous fiscal revealed that these defaulters were yet to clear theit dues for the last few years ranging in lakhs. The outstanding amount of few of these was higher than Rs 1 lakh following which the administration is now segregating them in categories based on the volume of their default amount. 
 
 An official from the department said on Wednesday that they were in the process of taking legal action on such defaulters. A notice will be sent initially followed by seizure or sealing of their properties proportionate to the tax defaults commited by the consumer.
 
 “We have come across 900 properties whose tax has not been paid till last fiscal year end. The collective default amount works out to roughly Rs 80 crore. We are identifying the major defaults and will start attaching and subsequently auctioning those properties and recover our dues,” said a senior official from the   department.
 
 The property tax department is one of the major revenue earners for the corporation. Though, the department managed to recover nearly Rs 380 of the Rs 390 cr recovery target for last year by including new properties in the tax bracket and hike in taxes, previous arrears continues to pose a hurdle before the administration. 
 
 This year, the department has managed to earn nearly 30% of its annual target revenue in the first quarter of the present fiscal ending on June 30.
 
