MANGALURU: Braving a   call given by various Sangh Parivar outfits and the BJP, Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan addressed a mammoth   organized by the Mangaluru unit of CPM on Saturday. 

 Terming the hartal a display of intolerance, the Kerala chief minister said no one can stop him from moving around as an ordinary citizen. “I am not born as a chief minister. I have the experience of walking amid sickles and sticks even when I was a college student. What can these people (Sangh Parivar) do now? Sangh Parivar has shown their   by calling a hartal opposing my visit. They said their men will not allow me to enter Mangaluru. Some of them said they will not allow me to go outside Kerala. In Madhya Pradesh (where he was stopped from attending an event), I respected the government there and returned without addressing a programme. However, I would like to say that nobody can prevent me from moving around as an ordinary man,” Vijayan said, questioning the logic behind calling a hartal when the CM of another state is visiting.
 
 Vijayan thanked the Karnataka government for ensuring his safety. “CPM Karnataka secretary G V Sriram Reddy invited me to address the harmony rally months ago. I really appreciate Karnataka government for making such elaborate security arrangements. Let this be a lesson for all,” Vijayan said. 
 
 Slamming the RSS for its intolerance, Vijayan said: “Our home minister has said in Parliament that secularism is the reason for all disasters in the nation. RSS has become an idol of intolerance. Intellectuals M M Kalaburagi, Govind Pansare and Narendra Dabholkar were killed just because of the intolerance of Sangh Parivar. RSS also targetted writer K S Bhagawan, Jnanpith awardee Girish Karnad and intellectual U R Ananthamurthy for taking a stand against communalism. Actors Shahrukh Khan, Aamir Khan, Nandita Das, Jnanpith awardee M T Vasudevan Nair and director Kamal were asked to go to Pakistan for expressing their views. RSS is unable to tolerate those who oppose their ideology.” 
 
 “This nation belongs to all Indians. RSS has no special rights in India. Each individual has the right to express their views. Hence, all secular organisations need to unite against the communal agenda of the RSS,” Vijayan said. 
 
 
