NAGPUR: The   (IAP) will be starting an Indian College of Paediatrics to train doctors in 14 sub-specialities of paediatrics like infections,  , neurology, endocrinology, nephrology, pulmonology etc. The college will run one and two-year fellowship courses at New Delhi to bring uniformity in diagnosis and treatment of children across India.

 Dr Santosh T Soans, national president elect of IAP, told TOI that the courses will train doctors in the two levels (high and normal) of care that a patient needs. “There is a very high level care needed in dealing with paediatric patients suffering from cardiac problems, haematological problems, oncology etc. Doctors in these fields have to keep themselves abreast of all the developments and hence fellowship courses are the need of the hour,” said Dr Soans.
 
 IAP will also be educating paediatricians to adhere to the laid down modalities of treatment in certain diseases like tuberculosis, handling of paediatric emergencies, monsoon maladies, asthma etc. These will be covered under the President Action Plan. IAP will be concentrating on continuing various government schemes and programmes like polio eradication, vaccine preventable diseases, and mother and child care projects. Training doctors in dealing with infections is the biggest priority for IAP. “Simple precautions like hand washing can alone prevent a lot of infections. But generally neither doctors nor general people follow the basic norms for prevention of infections,” said Dr Soans.
 
 He was in the city for the inauguration of a two-day international conference on supportive care in paediatrics titled ‘Books to bedside’ organized jointly by the Paediatric Intensive Care Chapter ( ) and the IAP chapter of Nagpur.
 
 Dr Bonita Stanton, founding dean of the   and  , USA, was the chief guest at the inaugural function. She said that the conference was aptly focusing on transfer of knowledge from the books to the bedside of the patient.
 
 Senior paediatrician and patron of conference Dr Satish Deopujari, PICC president and organizing chairperson Dr Shilpa Hazare and PICC secretary and organizing secretary Dr Anand Bhutada were also present.
 
 
