MUMBAI: The state government had not recommended NCP chief Sharad Pawar’s name in the list it sent to the Centre for the   awards.

 A senior official said a state committee headed by a cabinet minister, which scrutinizes applications for the awards, had received nearly 90 names. As Pawar’s name was not on that list, it was not submitted to the Centre. “Even if the state does not recommend, the Centre can include any name of its choice. Pawar’s name was included by a committee at the national level,” said the official. 
 
 Pawar, who will complete 50 years in public life next month, figures on the list of   awardees for this year. The NCP leader had announced his retirement from electoral politics a few years ago, after which he was elected to the Rajya Sabha. 
 
 His daughter Supriya now represents Baramati in the Lok Sabha.
 
 The Modi government’s response to Pawar has ranged from hostility to public admiration. During the 2014 LS polls campaign, Narendra Modi had campaigned extensively in Pawar’s hometown. He had then come down heavily on the NCP, calling it the most corrupt party. A month after the massive debacle of the NCP in the LS polls, Modi showered praise on Pawar, saying that he had taken lessons in politics from none other than the NCP chief. Union finance minister Arun Jaitley too, during a tour of Baramati, lauded the work done by Pawar in the field of agriculture, particularly reforms in new farming techniques.
 
 When Modi banned currency notes of Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 in November last year, Pawar was the first to welcome the decision. However, subsequently, he said that following demonetization, India’s rural economy had completely collapsed.
 
 Padma Vibhushan is the second highest civilian honour, after Bharat Ratna. Along with Pawar, veteran BJP leader Murli Manohar Joshi, fomer MP chief minister late Sunderlal Patwa and former Lok Sabha speaker, the late P A Sangma, have also been selected for the Padma Vibhushan award.
 
 Apart from Pawar, seven other personalities from Maharashtra have been chosen for the Padma  . Among them is Dr Tehemton Udwadia, who has won the   for medicine. He is known as the father of laproscopic surgery in India. Another is Dr Mapuskar, a pioneer in the field of sanitation who made the Dehu village open defecation-free. Bollywood singers Anuradha Paudwal and   too are on the list of awardees.
 
