CHENNAI: What happens to the debris when a building is demolished? In most cases it is taken to landfills or dumped illegally by the roadside and in water bodies. But if processed, construction and demolition (C&D) debris can be used in the construction of buildings and flyovers, albeit partially.

 But to turn waste to wealth,   not only needs to create a market for the recycled product, but use processed C&D waste for its infrastructure projects. Experts say if the corporation sets the trend, regular buyers can overcome the apprehension of using 'waste' in a new construction.
 
 Last week, TOI reported that the civic body has identified erstwhile landfill sites in Athipattu and   to process more than 1,200 tonnes of C&D waste that the city generates daily. According to officials, less than 1% of the city's total C&D waste is processed or recycled. With the city's construction boom expected to get bigger over the next decade, uti lising processed C&D waste can reduce the strain on natural resources.
 
 “C&D waste can be used for as much as 20% of material in structural (buildings, flyovers) and 100% in nonstructural (roads, pavements) projects.The corporation's must ensure that the waste processing unit is always fed.Because these plants are energy intensive and for the project to be economically viable, the corporation must create a market for the recycled product,“ said IIT-Tirupati director  , who helped the corporation prepare a detailed project report for C&D waste processing.
 
 But the government's lackadaisical attitude may come in the way. Though the Construction and Demolition Waste Management Rules, 2016 -notified by the Union ministry of environment in March 2016 -stipulates that state governments mandate using 10%-20% C&D waste in all infrastructure projects, local contractors cite the government's struggle to popularise m-sand as a reason for their pessimism. “Using m-sand was notified by the   in 2012. But it did not use m-sand in its own projects until recently , when the chief minister intervened,“ a contractor said. The same is happening with C&D, he said.
 
 Civil engineer and builder,  , said new constructions used C&D waste but for filling purposes."Using it in the structure means there is a risk of air cracks due to presence of uneven granules. For the labour cost required to avoid such issues, it would be cheaper and easier to stick to conventional materials," he said, adding that buyers would not prefer a project that has C&D waste.
 
 Environmental activist Dharmesh Shah said the project would be impeded by existing building code policies. The National Building Code of India and  , through recent amendments, have made it possible for builders to substitute natural material with recycled waste in constructions. However, Shah said these amendments still tread a line of caution, which was sufficient for contractors to hesitate exploring the C&D option altogether.
 
 The hesitation could also be due to the lack of incentives offered by government, CREDAI TN chapter chairman Ajit Chordia said. “In Ahmedabad, the corporation gives an incentive to recyclers and encourage cement block manufacturers to use part of the recycled material. In Chennai, the local body should encourage setting up of recycling plants, then the debris will be diverted to the recycler,“ said Chordia.
 
