New Delhi: Directorate General of Civil Aviation ( ) on Tuesday ordered immediate examination of Pratt & Whitney (PW) engines powering the   A-320 new engine option (Neo) aircraft, following constant snags in this engine type. It has mandated PW engines on the A-320   that have operated for over 1,000 hours immediately undergo ‘boroscopic’ tests, meaning each part be checked thoroughly, ahead of the 1,500 hours prescribed by the engine manufacturer. Repeat engine inspections have been prescribed after every 500 hours.

 IndiGo has 129 A-320s in its fleet of which 16 are Neos. And GoAir’s current fleet of 24 includes 5 Neos. Of the 21 PW engine-powered Neos currently used in India, DGCA expects to complete tests on the ones that have operated for over 1,000 hours, in next two weeks. DGCA clarified that the issue relates only to Neos with PW engines and not other A-320s,.
 
 DGCA decision came a day after the P&W engine on the   reported their at least fifth snag this year with one of these   returning to Delhi soon after take off. 
 
 A regulatory official said: “Globally till February 24, 2017, 42 PW 1100G engines (fitted on A-320 Neos) have been prematurely removed from aircraft due to different technical reasons. PW has said some of these issues will be addressed by September, 2017.”
 
 With 430 A-320 Neo family planes on order, IndiGo is Airbus’s biggest customer globally for this aircraft. In a statement, IndiGo said: “The A320 Neo are meeting our expectations in terms of efficiency and fuel savings. Our Airbus A320 Neo aircraft induction and subsequent network expansion plan are intact and as per schedule. Though, we continue to face a few operational issues with the Neo engine; both PW and Airbus are working to address these issues.”
 
 GoAir has ordered 72 A-320 Neos with PW engines and is yet to decide the engine for an additional order of 72 Neos it confirmed last year. Airbus, in a statement, said: “We are working with PW (and) supporting our customers.”
 
 On its part, PW said: “Pratt & Whitney is supporting GoAir and IndiGo to assess the situation. The issues are still under review so it would be premature to speculate on the cause. We are working closely with our customers and our suppliers in order to address and resolve these issues quickly. The P&W GTF engines are a game-changing, break-through technology with approximately [96,000] hours of revenue service operation. The GTF has been operating in the field for over one year, delivering on its performance commitments, including 99.8% dispatch reliability.”
 
