NEW DELHI: Gujarat is set to become the first state to witness use of Electronic Voting Machines (EVMs) with paper trail in all polling booths during the assembly elections slated to be held in December. 

  The   told the   on Thursday that there was no harm in employing these machines if the requisite numbers had been procured. 
 
  EVMs with voter verifiable paper audit trail (VVPAT) have so far been used only randomly in select polling booths including in the last round of assembly polls. 
 
  The SC's stand - employing such machines would improve transparency in elections - assumes significance in the wake of complaints by several political parties, including   and BSP, that EVMs had been manipulated in UP to give   a massive mandate. Though none of the parties took the challenge thrown up by the EC to demonstrate susceptibility of EVMs to tampering, the doubts have lingered on in political circles. 
 
  A petition by Reshma Vithalbhai Patel requested the court through senior advocate   and lawyer M Nizam Pasha to direct the EC to use EVMs with VVPAT facility in the Gujarat assembly elections to boost voters' confidence in the machines. 
 
 They informed the court that pursuant to funds given by the Centre on the SC's direction, the EC had so far procured 87,000 VVPAT EVMs as against the total requirement of 70,000 such machines for conducting the Gujarat assembly elections.
 
  The bench asked the EC counsel if the figures given by the government and the petitioner were true, "what is the harm in deploying these machines for the December assembly polls in Gujarat"? 
 
  Listing reasons for not deploying these machines in assembly elections, the EC counsel said, "Though 87,000 VVPAT EVMs have been procured, not all have been tested to be foolproof; if problems arise during voting, it would create complications; and lastly, the staff have not been trained to handle these new machines." 
 
  The SC termed these reasons as lame excuses and said, "The manner in which you (the counsel) are arguing, it appears you (EC) don't want to do it. Your demeanour does not show you want to do it. The EC will file an affidavit on this issue in four weeks and if we find it is possible, then we will direct you to employ the new machines for Gujarat polls." 
 
 
