NEW DELHI:   continued his impressive run and David Warner returned to form as   recorded a nine-wicket win against   at the Rajiv Gandhi International Stadium in Hyderabad on Sunday. SRH cruised to the below-par 136-run target in just 15.3 overs as Warner sealed his team's fourth successive victory over GL with a six.

 Warner top-scored with an unbeaten 76 while Moises Henriques too reeled off a fifty of his own, scoring 52 not out. 
 
 Here's a look at the top five turning moments from SRH victory
 
 
 What a buy is Rashid proving for Sunrisers Hyderabad. The young Afghan spinner has set the Indian Premier League on fire with his classy display of legspin bowling, leaving the batsmen bamboozled. He was the prime reason why Warner's decision of bowling first in Hyderabad proved to be a masterstroke. He was unplayable, top quality batsmen be it Brendon McCullum or Suresh Raina, everyone failed to read his googlies and legspinners. He first came to bowl in the fifth over and gave SRH their first breakthrough just when the opposition batsmen had begun playing their shots. He trapped McCullum with a wrong'un and could have got captain Suresh Raina off the next had Warner held on to a difficult catch at the first slip. He then slipped in another googly and this time it was Aaron Finch who failed to read it and was out lbw. Off his final delivery of the third over, he got the big fish, Raina expected a googly but was dished a typical legspinner that turned just enough to crash on the pad to send him walking back for 5. Rashid eventually finished with excellent figures of 3/19 from four overs.
 
 
 Dinesh Karthik and Dwayne Smith came together after the fall of their skipper. GL were 57/4 in nine overs and desperately in need of a partnership that would put their innings back on track. They safely saw through the fourth and final over of Rashid and then began the repair work. Smith punished poor deliveries, hitting back-to-back fours off Moises Henriques in the 13th over. The Australian leaked 12 runs in it and didn't bowl again. Then, Smith finally scored the first six of GL innings, lofting Ashish Nehra into the sightscreen. Together, they added 56 runs in 7.4 overs before Bhuvneshwar returned to break the partnership and again, derail their innings.
 
 
 At 113/4 in 16.3 overs and with two big-hitters in Smith and Karthik in the middle, it seemed GL will manage to score more than 140. But then a slower one from Bhuvi had Smith caught at deep midwicket for 37. GL began wobbling again after his dismissal. In the next over, Karthik (30) was out caught behind while attempting a ramp shot. Two balls later, a sharp throw from Rashid caught Dhawal Kulkarni short of his ground to be run-out for 1. Somehow, thanks to a six from debutant Basil Thampi they huffed and puffed their way to 135/7.
 
 
 Shikhar Dhawan had smoked Raina for a six in the third over but in the next, he got a leading edge to be out caught off a full toss for 9. However, that was the only dent in an otherwise perfect SRH chase that was led by Warner. He was merciless against the spinners, not sparing even the debutant Tejas Baroka. After larruping his counterpart Raina for two sixes in an over, he greeted legspinner Baroka with two fours off his first two deliveries. To his credit, the 21-year-old spinner managed to keep the Australian quiet for the rest of his over, although he struggled with his length and packed his maiden IPL over with googlies. Then, another debutant Basil Thampi, received a similar treatment – two fours off his first two deliveries. He tried a slower next but bowled it too far outside off which was called a wide. With a four, off the same bowler's next over, he reached his 33rd IPL fifty, taking just 28 balls to the milestone.
 
 
 With their thumping nine-wicket in Uppal, SRH recorded their fourth successive win over Gujarat. They won both the league encounters (home and away) last season which including a 10-wicket thrashing at Rajkot. They also beat them in the second qualifier en route a maiden IPL title which they won by beating Royal Challengers Bangalore.
 
