 have been springing up in the city like wildflowers in the monsoon. Consider this. Since   opened last year in Jubilee Hills four more — Hylife, Zero 40, The   and Vapour — sprouted within the four kilometer radius. With old outlets like   and Over The Moon also jumping into the fray, the number of beweries has gone up to seven. With the Telangana Government having issued 20 licenses in July 2016, we can safely assume that there are plenty more brew pubs in the offing. And the pub-hoppers in the city today are spoilt for choice whether to go the ‘lite’ way, sip on some cream stout or keep it simple with the sweet aromatic cider. It doesn’t end at that, as enticing ambiences, appealing offers and characteristic tastes are pulling tipplers to these taprooms.

 For the present-day pub-goer, an evening well spent at a lounge means savouring a complete experience brimming with warm ambience, delectable menu and of course, some fresh beer. “Honestly, it was getting boring guzzling the same old bottled beers. Thanks to these breweries, now you have a reason to actually go pub hopping to try different brews. You have a reason to make plans for an evening to taste different varieties of brews, and be assured that you will actually get to appreciate and experience something new and fresh,” says a pub-regular and entrepreneur, Akhil. 
 
 For biker  , the unique ambience that the breweries offer is the biggest draw. “Although factors like pricing and favourite menus are always there, the one thing that makes you want to go for the breweries over the regular pubs is the ambience that these places offer. And of course, the growing competition is only making things better,” he says. 
 Prateep Basu, a hobbyist wine and beer taster, who loves taking his group of friends out for ‘tasting sessions’ to the newly-opened breweries at least twice a week, enthuses, “I like to play a connoisseur during these sessions. I usually get a sampler set and unapologetically boast about my knowledge of beer by identifying them by their colour. Next is getting the aroma by swirling before smelling it. By this time, most gulp down the small beer shot glasses and this is when I remind them that it’s to be taken in small sips. After that they ask me to order for them as well. Now I do like some of the brews in Hyderabad, but they should really start getting their glass combinations right; after all every variety of brew has its characteristic glasses.”
 
 A heady concoction of science and art
 
 Behind the hustle and bustle of the brewpubs, there are cabins that station the massive container-like machines that churn out the brews every day. The atmosphere inside them is starkly different from the revelry outside. All the expensive equipment that these cabins house for rinsing, soaking, mashing and boiling the malt before the fermentation, gives them a lab-like look. And if you look closely we’re sure you’ll spot a tiny lab inside them used for quality check.
 Master brewer from Canada, Martin Bernand, who is among the many experts who frequents the city, explains, “To make a beer the most basic ingredient is malt. The malt contains starch, so we convert the starch into something sweet that the yeast (used for fermentation) can feed on. We carefully monitor and control the quality of the yeast which is the enzyme in the process. These labs help us check on criteria such as temperature, the PH levels among other requirements to ensure that we get the quality we are looking for.”
 The passionate brewer adds, “So yes, the process of brewing is a mixture of science and art.” So, from where are our city’s breweries sourcing these ingredients for this aesthetic concoction? “Currently the city’s breweries are brewing with a range of ingredients — from wheat, basmati rice, coffee from Chikmagalur and Coorg to even a hint of chocolate,” he informs. 
 The flavours and the fermentation process are paramount to attain the desired quality of the brew, avers master brewer Aditya Challa. “A good brew is the one that has been processed through the complete cycle of fermentation and it isn’t heavy. Often breweries in a bid to boost business and sales mess up with the production cycle and that compromises their quality,” says Challa.
 
 Cheers to Telangana government, say brewery owners
 When it comes to bestowing credit for this change, business owners unanimously hail the Telangana government. Take for instance, the pan-Indian   of hotels that has been looking to enter the brewery market for a while now, and chose Hyderabad to begin its journey. “With the Telangana government’s business favourable policies we felt it would be great to start from Hyderabad and here we are with The Hoppery at Olive!” says AD Singh, managing director, Olive Group of restaurants.
 With the intense competition in the market, the breweries are going all out to create their own niche. While the The Hoppery has taken the ‘first come, first served’ policy to cater to the demand and are manufacturing the brews in small batches, Zero 40 has taken beer drinking a notch higher by pairing it with delectable food. “Right from the start, our focus has always been on maintaining the quality of our beers and that same attention to detail has spilled over into creating our food menu. So it pairs well with our brews and fortunately it has paid off,” says Anoor Paripati, managing director, Zero 40.
 
 However, there is another catch to drinking beer at Zero 40. “We are the only pet friendly brewery in town,” adds Paripati.
 For the older outlets, brewing became an upgrade they needed to get 
 
 For veteran outlets like the Heart Cup Coffee and Over the Moon, which have a loyal customer base, jumping on the brewery bandwagon seemed like a logical option. To ensure that they mould themselves according to the changing demands of their customers, they gave their brews a characteristic quality.
 “Yes, having a brewery is an added advantage. Specifically, our brews are fashioned after the beers from European countries and that’s what sets us apart,” says Sanjeev Mehta, partner, Over The Moon. 
 
 Tabeer Osmani, associate partner, Heart Cup Coffee group, also echoes, “Our whole idea is to remain as the melting pot of nightlife culture in the city. Be it the drinks, food or the music, we want to offer the best to our customers. So jumped on board and got a brewery license to continue providing everything our customers ask for.”
 
 Hyderabad is a nascent market but it’s growing
 However, Tabeer, Sanjay and many others also aver that the art of appreciating the brews is still at a nascent stage in Hyderabad. “The brewery concept is still new for most Hyderabadis, barring those who have travelled abroad and tasted brews in other cities. Now, those folk obviously have a very definitive taste. But from a broader point of view, I think Hyderabad today is enjoying the brews and we should savour this stage in the city’s culture,” he says.
 Shaaz Mehmood, partner, The Hoppery at Olive, also echoes, “Yes, Hyderabad in my opinion is a nascent market compared to Bangalore or Pune when it comes to breweries. However, it’s growing! The sign of a developed beer market is when the wheat beer stops topping the sales charts. It’s funny how some people in Hyderabad still think every dark beer is a stout and hence find our  , which is a dark lager, very light! We’ve kept a collection of beer encyclopaedias and books to read and get the Hyderabadi customer aware of what beer is all about!”
 
