Usually, when one thinks of a musical or dance performance, one expects to turn up at the venue, watch the show and leave once it is done. But the city recently witnessed a unique collaboration of music and dance, the aim of which was to bring about wellbeing in the audience.

 'Such shows are popular in   and across Europe; they are staged in hospitals and carehomes there as part of their wellbeing initiative. This is not commonplace here and was something that I wanted to try in Bengaluru,' says  , a Bharatanatyam dancer, who has an interdisciplinary PhD combining dance and psychology, and is also a founder and artistic director of a social enterprise that caters to dance arts mental health wellbeing and research in  , UK. Gayathri met singer and voiceover artiste   in Bengaluru three years ago, and both realized that they were interested in exploring how art can aid mental wellbeing. They kept in touch, and in December, when Gayathri came to the city on holiday, they decided to finally collaborate and staged their performance earlier this week, with the help of Gayathri's guru,  .
 
 'Some people were confused when they came to watch us ' they asked me why I was not in my dancer's attire. Usually, when you go for a performance, you look at how good the jewellery and outfit is, you grab a bite once it's done and go back home. But that was not the focus of our show. After 20 minutes and three songs (that were sung by Sujata and performed by Gayathri), there was a Q&A round and we discussed the act. People gave us their inputs; one woman was crying, and told me that one of the songs reminded her of her late husband. A person might not talk about their stresses or emotions, but at events like this, they can bring back certain memories, perhaps through a song or a certain movement. We also gave them the freedom and a platform to communicate these emotions. Everything boils down to human contact and being there for one another,' adds Gayathri. 
 
 The duo carefully selected the songs ' one each in Tamil, Marathi and Hindi ' that depicted the developmental psychological idea of going through the different stages in life. The age group of the audience was between 15 and 95 years, and it is also this inter-generational interaction that the artistes want to encourage, as they feel that each age group has something to offer and teach to the others.
 
 This performance was a means of research for Sujata and Gayathri, who, based on the feedback they received from the audience, want to add more aspects to their performance in the future and stage more such shows across India and in the UK as well. 'The year 2017 is the year of UK and India cultural ties. I am in touch with people who are trying to open a South Asian gallery in Manchester to promote the art of the region to make it accessible to a global audience. So, we are hopeful of taking our performance there as well,' says Gayathri.
 
