Noida/Ghaziabad: Early morning showers on Thursday brought Noida and   to a halt as office goers got stranded on the DND flyway, Mahamaya flyover and Kalindi Kunj-Delhi route, which was submerged in water. Basements and ground floors of shops in the busy Sector 18 market were flooded while residential sectors and housing societies were waterlogged across Noida and Ghaziabad.

 The heavy downpour resulted in the choking of all the underground drains in the Noida and  .
 
 In Ghaziabad, Indirapuram took the worst hit with   road, connecting the main road towards Shipra underpass and the arterial road of Ahinsa Khand passing through   area (a residential society and Tikona Park).
 
 While traffic came to a standstill on the   up to Mahamaya flyover and further down to the DND loop road and beyond owing to submerged roads, breakdown of vehicles including a truck and two buses, added to the delay. Even as office goers got stuck in serpentine jams, schools weren’t prepared to decide whether to declare it a holiday.
 
 The rain led to many areas in Noida including an underpass, low-lying roads, basements and parks getting submerged. In Sector 34 lack of an outlet for the rainwater clogged the drains and submerged the sector roads. “Waterlogged roads and lack of power from 6am made it difficult for children to go to school and their parents to work. There were traffic jams on the roads of sectors 34 and 35 because of waterlogging,” said K K Jain, RWA president, Sector 34.
 
 In Ghaziabad a part of a 10-metre-high wall in Niho-Scottish Gardens, a residential society in Indirapuram, caved in. D K Maurya, RWA president of the society, told TOI, “Every road in Indirapuram was submerged in knee-deep water.”
 
 Office goers going through the Shipra underpass had a tough time reaching work owing to traffic snarls. More than 50% of the commuters could not reach their offices. Societies like Amrapali Greens, Windsor Park, Gaur City and Supertech Eco Village in Noida had more than two feet of sewage water in their basements.
 
 Calls from TOI to the Noida authority and GDA were not answered.
 
 
