PATNA: The head of Takhat Sri Harmandir Ji,  ,   on Tuesday said he will put in his papers on January 6, a day after Prakashotsava celebrations are over in the city.

 Makkar, also the outgoing president of Shiromani Gurdwara Prabandhak Committee, however, did not give any specific reason for his decision to step down as Takhat Patna Saheb head. His tenure was to end six months later.
 
 Talking to TOI at Patna Saheb Gurdwara on Tuesday, Makkar said, “I have done my job by organising the 350th Prakashotsava. I am no more interested in the post. Let people from Patna be at the helm,” he said. Makkar, who lives in Ludhiana, used to come to Patna often after assuming charge as president of Patna Saheb Prabandhak Committee.
 
 None of the prabandhak committee members TOI spoke to were aware of Makkar’s decision to quit. “It is surprising. We had not expected this. He was elected about two years ago and we expected him to complete full term,” a senior member of the committee told TOI on the condition of anonymity. 
 
 Makkar’s term as president of   committee was marred with controversies. About a month ago, the factionalism within committee came to the fore with a few members alleging bungling of funds by some of their colleagues. At that time, Makkar, while talking to TOI, had admitted financial mismanagement, but said he was unaware of most of the businesses done by the prabandhak committee. “I don’t live in Patna,” he had said, adding that a meeting of the committee would be held on January 15 to look into the funds bungling charge.
 
 Akal Takhat jathedar arrives
 
  Putting all speculations to rest, the jathedar of Amritsar’s Akal Takhat Giani Gurbachan Singh landed in Patna on Tuesday. The jathedar or high priest, who had taken a flight for Patna in Amritsar on December 21, rescheduled his journey after reaching Delhi where he allegedly received a letter from Patna Saheb Prabandhak Committee, which advised him to stay away from the event.
 
 However, two other Punjab jathedars of Damadama Saheb and Anandpur Saheb have decided to stay away from the historic Sikh event. Explaining their absence, Patna Saheb Prabandhak Committee president Avtar Singh Makkar said, “The jathedar of Damadama Saheb is ill. In any case, the presence of Akal Takhat jathedar should suffice."
 
 However, a senior member of  , which had appointed all these jathedars, said the other two are upset with the letter of Patna Saheb committee.
 
 
