DEHRADUN: The sight of desolate   headquarters in the thick of poll season recently stunned  , the head of the party’s screening committee. After her rebuke, some party workers hastily erected a ‘shamiyana’ (tent) and arranged for a coffee machine at Rajeev Bhawan, the nerve centre of the party activities for the past 16 years. However, they failed to lift the mood of the old guard present there.

  Technology has changed the way of campaigning now. But, it has also exposed the fault lines between the new and the old guard, which is feeling left behind in the transition.
 
  With the entry of Congress’ poll strategist Prashant Kishor, all the Congress’ campaigning-related activities were shifted to a swanky hotel in affluent Clement Town area.
 
  The Rajpur road headquarters wears a deserted look now. Barring the time when some national leader is scheduled to address media, most of the seniors are nowhere visible in office premises.
 
  A senior Congress leader, requesting anonymity, told TOI: “Our activity is limited to holding press conferences and inviting the media. None of us is aware of the ongoing developments and our role in the electioneering process.”
 
  It is for the first time when the party headquarters was not handling the election campaign, he said.
 
  “Selja saw it and scolded the party leaders for poor arrangements, after which a shamiyana was erected, the entire office was cleaned and a dustbin was placed. A member regarded close to chief minister Harish Rawat also brought the coffee machine,” said the party source.
 
  Another office bearer cribbed that there was no proper food arrangement for party members, who were given portfolios in different wings of the party.
 
  “Though the campaigning has hit the top gear, there have been only two days when lunch packets, and that too in a very limited numbers, were brought to the party office. As a result, the party workers are feeling ignored and demoralised,” said the senior leader.
 
  Meanwhile, on the other end, Team PK has made its base in a hotel in Clement Town. While Kishor is shuttling between Dehradun and Uttar Pradesh, his central team is operating from the hotel.
 
  The team started its campaign with 80 members. But, a few days ago, a group of 70 more workers, who were active in Punjab polls, joined the Uttarakhand unit taking the total number of members to 150.
 
  While one team remains with the chief minister to cover all his events, the remaining 68 candidates (as Rawat is contesting from two seats) have been given a team of two members each.
