PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: At night, the 6km stretch between Nigdi and Dehu Road on the   plunges into darkness due to the absence of street lights. 

 Road widening work is in progress on this stretch, and street lights were removed along the stretch to facilitate the work. Apart from the dangerous darkness, the dug up sides of the road in Dehu Road Cantonment Board cause traffic snarls during peak hours, particularly on the half-kilometre stretch from   cantonment general hospital to Hotel Savana.
 
 This has prompted activists and citizens to urge the   (MSRDC) to take adequate safety measures. 
 
 The project to widen the road from two lanes to four between Dehu road police station chowk and   chowk in Nigdi started three months ago. The   has submitted a memorandum to the MSRDC, asking for blinkers to be installed near the barricades, or along the highway, to warn the vehicles at night about the construction work. 
 
 They have also demanded that 'go slow' boards be put up at regular intervals.
 
 The task of shifting the utility lines on both sides of the highway is in progress, for which, barricades have been erected at many spots along the highway. It was for this purpose that the street light poles were removed. 
 
 Due to the ensuing darkness and the dug-up sides, there is a danger of vehicles falling into the ditches. While happy with the project on the whole, regular motorists feel there is an immediate need for the MSRDC to increase safety measures to prevent accidents.
 
 Ramkumar Bidlan, a local resident, said, "Digging up the road to shift utility lines was done improperly due to which the water and power supply lines were damaged, causing suffering to the surrounding residents." 
 
 Mahesh Kudale, former president,   of Dehu Road, said, "The number of minor accidents has increased due to the darkness caused by removal of street light."
 
 An MSRDC official told TOI, "I have directed the contractor to install blinkers along the highway to warn vehicles about the ongoing work. I will direct the contractor to install some more directions and cautionary 'go slow' boards." 
 
 
