NAVI MUMBAI: Over 700 slums,   or tabelas, which had come up illegally on MIDC land, were razed at   and Yadav Nagar under   on Monday. The   was jointly carried out by MIDC and the civic body under  .

 Officials said that, by and large, the entire drive was peaceful. Over 100 cops were deployed to provide security cover to the demolition teams. “Adequate police force was summoned to back the drive and the situation remained calm,” said  , senior inspector of Rabale MIDC police station.
 
 According to MIDC officials, five cattle sheds were also demolished in the drive. NMMC officials said the animals seized during the drive have been shifted to the Vashi animal centre.
 
 Sanjay Desai, executive engineer of NMMC said that they bulldozed over 700 slums and shops. “We have also seized and shifted over 100 buffaloes to civic cattle pound in Vashi.”
 
 Speaking to TOI, Avinash Mali, deputy engineer of MIDC, said that they took a cue from the experience faced by the NMMC demolition squad, who had gone there without taking police protection. “We joined forces to conduct a peaceful drive. We cracked down on tabelas and slums as well. The drive will continue in the coming days in compliance with high court order,” he added.
 
 It may be recalled that, NMMC had to call off the drive due to stiff opposition and lack of police protection on February 14, as the squad was gheraoed by angry mob.
 
 “An agitated mob was gathering there and police protection was not available, so we decided to postpone the demolition,” said an official from encroachment department.
 
 On the same day, MIDC team was given protection for Digha illegal buildings evacuation drive, being carried out by high court receiver.
 
 The demolition drive is part of the announcement made by civic chief Tukaram Mundhe. “Every form of encroachments after 2000 will be demolished. We are repeatedly asking the citizens to refrain from illegal constructions,” said Mundhe.
 
 Earlier this month, NMMC cracked the whip on 800 huts, shops, tabelas and shifted 35 buffaloes to its Vashi animal centre from Devidham Nagar while MIDC cleared around 300 huts in Chinchpada, Airoli in separate drives.
 
 The civic officials also allayed the fears of animal lovers about the animals seized during the drive. A civic official said that all the seized animals are being well cared for and there is enough space at the Vashi animal centre.
 
