KOLKATA: A recent move by the   at the   may cost the   dear. It will pile an   of Rs 45 crore per year on the   at a time when the CM says the state's revenues have dropped by Rs 5,500 crore in the last two months of demonetisation.

 Union finance secretary Shaktikanta Das in a recent letter to chief secretary Basudeb Banerjee has asked the state to foot the bills for the seven companies of central forces deployed in the four Jangalmahal districts -West Midnapore, Bankura, Purulia and Birbhum -since 2008. The letter also mentions that depending on the response, the amount might be deducted from the revenue transferred to the state.
 
 While the chief secretary in his reply has opposed the proposal, senior officials in the state secretariat see this as the first step to remove the `Left Wing Extremist' (LWE) tag from these four districts.
 
 “The Centre's letter has grave ramification for the central schemes underway in these areas. Once the LWE tag is withdrawn, the state will have to run the scheme on its own and that will burden our finances further,“ an officer at Nabanna said.
 
 The Centre's move is based on a report submitted by a Union cabinet secretary that shows a marked improvement in the situation in many LWE-affected districts across the country . It has a bearing on the security arrangement in the Bengal area that falls within the Red corridor. If the Centre has its way , all these four districts will cease to become a part of the uniform Integrated Action Plan (IAP) or Additional Central Assistance (ACA) for LWE-affected districts. Senior Trinamool leaders saw in the Centre's move a “conspiracy“ against the state government after the CM upped the ante against PM Narendra Modi following the demonetisation exercise. “This is part of the overall conspiracy against the Mamata Banerjee government.The CM had said how the annual debt payout is rising in leaps and bounds. To add to the burden, the Centre has withdrawn its financial support to a host of schemes in these underdeveloped areas. Now the Modi government is trying to shift the cost of keeping central forces in Jangalmahal,“ said senior minister Partha Chatterjee.
 
 The central forces were deployed in Jangalmahal in 2008 to reign in Maoists who had made major inroads into the forest hamlets. The Congressled UPA I government had then provided the additional support to these violence-torn areas. The Left e Congress. The arrange Front was then the lifeline of the Congress. The arrangement continued during the UPA II regime when Mamata was the Centre's ally . Things remained unchanged even after she pulled out of UPA and chose an independent course while Modi came to power in 2014. The Centre hiked the liability of maintaining the central forces to 75% in 2012. Four years later, it wants the state to take the responsibility because the Union home ministry has reasons to believe the “Red corridor“ has changed its contours and Left Wing extremists are no longer much of a threat in Bengal.
 
 Such perception has been taking shape in New Delhi over the last three years. A report submitted by the review group under the cabinet secretary stressed the situation has improved in many districts and the focus now should be on areas that are still Maoist dominated. Going by the committee's recommendations, the Centre plans to give marching orders to the central forces from 20 of the106 Maoist-dominated districts that come under the projected Red Corridor.
 
