Thane: If all goes as per the plans then the lake city will soon be one of the cleanest cities. Municipal commissioner   has plans to formulate a mechanism wherein residents can alert the civic administration round-the-clock about any pile of garbage found lying on roads and it will be cleared by the civic authorities.

 The project is part of the Rs 200 cr overhaul of the   system proposed by the civic administration. A dedicated team will be on their toes and respond to calls of instances of dirt or even construction debris lying on the streets across the ten administrative wards in the town.
 
 City streets are often littered with construction waste and trash dumped from residential and commercial units and the civic machinery often proves inadequate to clear up the mess on time. Several areas in the city like Bhaskar Colony, Wagle Estate, Samata Nagar, Mumbra and certain parts of Kalwa sees garbage strewn across the streets that not only attracts scavengers, but also causes health problems for residents.
 
 The city generates nearly 650 tonne waste daily and despite a majority volume collected from households, a notable lot is often lying dumped on street sides. While on one hand the administration is working towards a smart city concept, it was being criticized for its inept handling of waste following which the concept was proposed, justified an official. 
 
 As per plans, residents will be able to alert the civic administration about the location of the garbage piles following which it will be promptly addressed to the team, said officials. A budgetary allocation of Rs 2 crore has been set up for purchasing six excavators and dumper trucks to help ferry the trash from the city streets. The administration will finalize the mode of communication at a later date.
 
 It may be remembered that the administration has been facing flak from residents and traders alike for trash found dumped on city streets. Further, activists claim why is the administration straining the tax payer with such new initiatives when all it has to do is to optimize the roles of the existing conservancy staff. There are nearly 1,000 salaried and contractual staff deployed by the civic administration to clean the streets regularly.
 
 “IT looks as if the administration simply wants new avenues to tax the common man. Why cannot the existing staff be asked to clear up the road stretches instead of adding up to the expense of purchasing new vehicles and setting up new teams,” questioned an activist.
 
 
