MUMBAI: England football legend   feels that there's no loyalty in football anymore. 

 "The amount spent in recent times is incredible and you can never ever justify the amount of money spent to acquire players," the ex-Blackburn Rovers and   star said here on Friday.
 
 "Football is just a business, that's the way you have to look at it. There is very little loyalty in football, whether from players, from managers or from owners of football clubs. Loyalty and football don't go along (together)," said Shearer on the sidelines of the 'The Football Movement' initiative here.
 
 While the news of Ranieri's sacking came as a shock to most, Shearer, who is the holder of the EPL's goal scoring record (260 goals), said he kind of saw that the players weren't happy with the manager.
 
 "I didn't really need to see Ranieri being ousted to see the players were not with him," he said. "I could see it three or four months ago that something was wrong in the dressing room. They weren't putting the same amount of effort as they did last season. And it's so amazing how it changed in their win over Liverpool last week. You could see the difference in the number of sprints they put in that the players didn't want him to be there."
 
 Shearer who had a stint as player-manager at Newcastle said the reason why there are so many sackings is because the players have become too powerful. "It's very difficult time to be a manager. If it can happen to (Jose) Mourinho, it can happen to anyone. I think as a manager you cannot afford to fall out with any of your players. If you fall out with one, it's alright, but if you fall out with four of five, it's going to be very difficult to stay at the club.
 
 "The unfortunate thing is that you cannot fire 20 players. Somebody has to take the fall. Players nowadays have got lots of power because of the huge contracts they sign. When I started, the clubs had huge power, now it's the players, and I would honestly like to see some sort of uniformity," he said.
 
 Football in India is in transition, and Shearer said that the country needs to keep taking baby steps. "Cricket may be the number one sport, but that doesn't mean stopping efforts to make Indian football bigger and better. When we look back to EPL in 1992 and now it shows how small steps will eventually get you there."
 
 
