"I think   will have far more Surprising & Interesting Elements to make a movie than the story of #Sasikala,” posted director  , summing up the brouhaha surrounding these ‘leaked pictures’ that have gone viral. It all began on Friday when a series of scandalous tweets appeared on playback singer Suchitra’s microblog. 

 
 
 
 The tweets, which included cosy pictures of South Indian hearthrobs like Rana,  , Trisha, Anirudh,  , Hansika et al, and some damning allegations of date rape, molestation and abuse, began to flood timelines of South cinema lovers in no time. 
 
 Even though, some of the later tweets saw the singer clarifying that her account has been hacked, the pictures went viral, and the hashtag #Suchileaks began to trend. While fans of the stars in question got agitated and began to troll each other, the actors themselves chose to remain silent. Things took an even more dramatic turn when Suchitra’s husband, RJ and singer, Karthik posted a video, hinting that all is not well 
 .
 
 
 This is an overwhelming kind of support and understanding that has been pouring in with respect to twitter updates in Suchi’s handle. The people who’ve been mentioned in it in a not-so-positive way have actually reached out to me seeking and clarifying and understanding and trying to understand the situation. And I had the honesty to tell them that it is indicative of a certain emotional state that Suchi has been going through; that we all as a family are trying to understand better and better, to address. And in that process, there are some emotional outbursts that have happened, which have, as we see very little factual basis. I really value their understanding. 
 
 I really value all of their love and care... if this were to happen to somebody in your family, I wish you also get the same love, understanding and care that I am receiving right now from the people who are hurt by it the most. They realise there is nothing personal and it is indicative of a certain emotional state. I request the press not to go to town with this... and not take any of the facts seriously... they’re not facts... they’re not to be taken for what they are... we should understand the situation better... treat Suchi like you would treat your own family member.. thank you for giving my family the benefit of doubt.” 
 — Karthik, Suchitra’s husband
 
 
