LUDHIANA: Both the   and   of being outsiders in Punjab ahead of the assembly election. But despite the insider-outsider narrative, almost all parties ­ Congress and BJP included ­ are flying their stars from   to Ludhiana, Punjab's industrial capital, which has a large popu lation of migrants. These 'outsiders' are expected play a crucial role in deciding at least a couple of seats in the city.

 So, in the land of Diljit Dosanjh, Bhojpuri actor-singer politician Manoj Tiwari campaigned here in early January. Congress too has flown in its Bihari big guns like Shakeel Ahmed, Supaul MP Ranjeet Ranjan and Sitamarhi MLA Amit Kumar who have campaigned in Ludhiana South and East constituencies.
 
 Even AAP's Punjab chief Sanjay Singh, who hails from Pratapgarh in UP , has held two public meetings in areas with a migrant population.
 
 Says Gurpreet Singh Gogi, Ludhiana urban president for Congress, “On January 30, Bihar's education minister, Dr Ashok Chowdhary , will reach the city and campaign among migrant voters. We have also sent requests for other leaders from these states to come down.“ BJP, meanwhile, is making full use of Tewari's popularity. “Manoj ji toured the city recently and is coming again for public meetings on January 31,“ says Ravinder Arora, the party's district president.
 
 “Though Sanjay Singh has campaigned across the state, he has held public meetings in Dhandari and Kakowal areas where migrant numbers are high. He has excellent connect with voters in these areas as he knows their problems,“ said Darshan Singh Shankar, media coordinator of AAP in Ludhiana.
 
 “There are three constituencies where migrants form a sizeable number. Among them, Ludhiana South has around 45% votes of migrants. In Ludhiana East, they have almost 30% votes. Sahnewal constituency too has many migrant voters,“ says Shamsher Ahmed, who is from Bihar and settled in Ludhiana. He is chairman of Inter State Welfare Council which keeps a watch on the election process.
 
 “Migrants living in the city face problems of lack of sanitation, water supply, bad roads, no stoppage of express trains besides other issues,“ he adds. “They often voice their feelings to leaders coming from their native states.“
 
