VIJAYAWADA: In what could be a chilling indictment of measures initiated by the successive governments to bail out the farmers from deep crisis, the suicides by the ryoths are only growing by each passing year. Notwithstanding the state government’s tall claims on launching several pro-farmers measures including pumping of waters from a slew of irrigation schemes, Andhra Pradesh has bagged a dubious distinction with high rate of suicides of farmers. 

 While the situation in most agriculture dominant states is more or less the same, staggering rise in farmers suicides in AP could be a blot on the state government’s image.   ( ) confirmed the shocking fact of 322 per cent rise in the farmers suicides in the state during 2015 over 2014. 
 
 NCRB released the country wide data on suicides in farming sector recently in which AP has been listed as one of the top states which are contributing to the high rate of suicides. In fact, NCRB started collecting the exclusive data on farmers suicides only from 2014 keeping in view of the growing agrarian crisis while it used to club the statistics with overall suicides in the past. 
 
 The suicides in AP went up to 516 in 2015 from mere 160 reported in 2014. It may be a small number when compared to the suicides in neighbouring telugu state-Telangana which reported around 1358 deaths. However, the growth rate of suicides in Telangana is around 152 percent while it was shocking rise of 322 percent in AP. 
 
 However, the agriculture minister Prattipati Pullarao had strongly denied the report. “To my knowledge, the farmers suicides have come down in AP and it will further come down in future. Our aim is to completely bail out the farmers from all kinds of crises,” reacted agriculture minister Prattipati Pullarao. He, however, could not defend with statistics as he was busy in shuttling from one village to another to attend Janmabhoomi programme in Guntur district on Wednesday. 
 
 Experts in agriculture sector said that farmers having small land holdings, over dependency on monsoon, insufficient irrigation facilities, cheap credit and insurance are contributing to the most of the tragic decisions by the farmers. Highly erratic and inadequate monsoon in last 2-3 years has aggravated the problems for persons engaged in farming sector, manifestations of these in extreme situations were seen in rise of farmers’ suicides. 
 
 “Crisis is result of state government’s negligence. Over five lakh farmers from   have migrated to other states in search of work. How could they say that the there is no crisis,” fumed former   member  . He said that instead of seeking central assistance to over the situation state is making false claims about growth rate leading to the large number of suicides. He said that declaration of all the 63 mandals in Ananthapuram as drought-hit by the state government for the three consecutive years itself an example of grave situation.
 
 NCRB analysed that bankruptcy, indebtedness and farming related issues as major causes of suicides among farmers. It said that about 4479 out of 8,007 suicides reported chiefly due to the indebtedness. This accounts to a whopping 55.9 percent of the total suicides. Similarly, 2193 out of 8,007 suicides were reported due to farming related issues. This accounts to about 27.3 percent of the total suicides. This means that farming related issues including non-availability of credit and marketing facilities alone contributed to nearly 83 percent of the farmers suicides during 2015. 
 
 The other prominent causes of farmer suicides were family problems, health reasons, drug abuse including addiction to the liquor.
 
