KOLKATA: The Times of India Sharad Parikrama, presented by Caring Minds, kicked off with a bang on Tuesday morning. The annual affair that gives children from all walks of life an opportunity to enjoy and soak in the festive spirit was organized in association with Techno India Group, Asahayein – Roshini Umeedon Ki,   of Calcutta, Future Hope India, Times Foundation, Prabhuji –House of Haldiram’s and Kolkata Police.

 More than 600 children, mostly from the associate schools of Lions Club of Calcutta and Future Hope India, assembled at Prinsep Ghat at 9am on Shashthi morning. The greens were decked with Durga Puja paraphernalia with the Rangoli being made by eminent artist Neeti Sodhani. The dhakis ushered in the Puja spirit as the buses carrying the revellers were flagged off by Lt Col Nevendera Singh Paul, deputy commissioner of police (Combat & Specialized Force); actor Suchandra Vaaniya and Lions Club vice-president Anand Tiwari. After the flag-off, the children headed to the landmark pujas in various pockets of the city to enjoy and participate in various competitions. 
 
 The Times of India Sharad Parikrama, which entered into its 15th year on Tuesday, has become an integral part of Durga Puja in Kolkata. It offers the children a chance to visit some of the biggest community pujas in the city.
 
 “Kolkata Police is working relentlessly to make the pujas safer and more enjoyable for the citizens of the city. We are continuously working so that you can enjoy the festival without any glitch. The entire force is on the ground so that you can enjoy yourself. Have a very happy and safe pujas,” said Nevendera Singh Paul.
 
 “I am very happy to be here among the children to kick-start my own festivities. It has started on a very auspicious note for me. I wish all the children and their parents a very happy Durga Puja,” said Suchandra Vaaniya.
 
 There were arrangements of caps, snacks and drinks from Lions Club of Calcutta, gift hampers for every child by Times Foundation and lunch packet by Prabhuji – House of Haldiram’s. 
 
 “I am having a very good time,” said an ecstatic Sourabh Dutta, 5. The resident of   was accompanied by his parents. “I have pandal-hopped in the past but this experience is out of the world. It feels like I am a celebrity,” said Dutta.
 
 Six-year-old Neha Gayen was elated to receive her gift hamper before she was driven to the pandals in a bus. “This is the best Puja ever. It is a lifetime opportunity for me.” 
 
 Undeterred by the heat and humidity, Piyashee Ghosh added: “I have been waiting for this since I came to know that I will be visiting Puja pandals like a celebrity. I have already viisted two big pujas in south Kolkata and the experience has been awesome. I am looking forward to visiting many more.”
 
 
