GURUGRAM: A 26-year-old man who pretended to look for   at   and   them after they got into his   has been  . 

 Padam alias Rahul rode with other members of his gang who were made to look like passengers. And they did this in cars borrowed from friends in Delhi. Padam is a Delhi resident but Iffco Chowk was his primary hunting ground. He and his aides generally took passengers towards Gwalpahari via MG road, and would rob them at secluded spots. 
 
 Padam was arrested from Sanjay Colony in Bhati Mines in Delhi last Wednesday and has been in police custody since then. He was made to appear before a magistrate on Saturday and his remand was extended for another two days.
 
 According to police, Padam and his associates used to generally target a person who appeared well off. They would ask the passenger where he or she was headed and pretended that they were going the same way. After reaching a secluded spot, they would ask the victims to hand over their belongings, and if they objected, the accused and his aides beat them up.
 
 In one of the cases the group was involved in, Abhishek Gupta, a resident of Mehrauli and a manager in a private company in Udyog Vihar, was robbed of his belongings, including his phone, laptop and wallet late night on June 5.
 
 Gupta had told the police he was going from MG Road to his house and had got into the cab from Iffco chowk. The cab, which had three people already, was heading towards Shankar Chowk, when they took a sudden U-turn, after they saw some cops. They took Gupta near the Leisure Valley ground and robbed him. When Gupta tried to resist, he was attacked and was thrown off the cab. 
 
 A case was registered at the Sector 18 police station on June 6 under sections 379B (snatching and use of force) and 34 (common intent) of the IPC. 
 
 The police have been able to identify other members of the group and are currently trying to track them down.
 
 Padam has confessed to the police that he and his associates have been involved in seven to eight cases. 
 
 DCP (east) Deepak Saharan said the gang was on the radar of Delhi Police too. “They are repeat offenders,” said Saharan
 
 
