CHARMINAR: Seized autorickshaws continue to pile up at the   stadium with drivers abandoning them after failing to pay penalties imposed by the  .

 Though auto drivers pay more penalties than two wheeler riders in the city, there is a rising trend of autodrivers deserting their vehicles as the fines are too steep.
 
 More than 2,000 autorickshaws have been seized by the traffic police in the recent years for violation of various rules and have been dumped at the Goshamahal Stadium. The traffic police have been booking cases against erring auto drivers for overloading, faulty meters, over speeding and other violations.
 
 Drivers have paid Rs 29 crore as traffic penalties in the last five years. Their compliance rate at over 80 % is better than two-wheeler riders with a compliance rate of 60 %.
 
 The huge number of seized autos forced the city traffic police to organise a Lok Adalat mela in 2016 which resulted in auto drivers paying Rs 1.50 crore, which is half the amount of the total pending penalties while the other half was waived off by the police.
 
 In wake of the two inci dents involving the tragic death of rice mill worker in Old City and another woman being dragged by auto at Attapur, traffic police has taken up a special drive against the errant auto drivers. “We along with RTA officials are jointly starting a special drive against auto drivers from Monday .Public safety is the prime concern of the traffic police“ said deputy commissioner of police, traffic, A V Ranganath.
 
 Days after the tragic auto accident which took place at  , the south zone police approached the   (GHMC) with a request to install rubber speed breakers at busy crossroads. The south zone police and traffic cops conducted a joint inspection of the site of the accident. In due course, the observed that vehicles, especially autorickshaws, are moving at high speeds. The police have also found that it was due to overspeeding that the accused auto driver,  , was unable to control the vehicle after its front tyre came off which resulted in the instant death of daily wager A Jangaiah. Apart from this, the local public too requested cops to install speed breakers in the area and complained that many vehicles, including buses, drive on the wrong side of the road causing grave danger to the pedestrians.
 
