CHANDIGARH: With recommendations such as targeting politicians with known record of having links with drug peddlers and going after the big suppliers, an analysis of Punjab’s drug problem by Sardar Patel University of Police, Security and Criminal Justice, Rajasthan, could prompt the state agencies to think beyond the ongoing crackdown against drug peddlers.

 To begin with, the state government can set up border police stations in each of the border districts that can focus on probing border crimes resulting in more conviction of smugglers, suggests an article by faculty of the university’s department of International Affairs and Security Studies.
 
 It says that the steps taken by the new Punjab government to crackdown on the nexus of terrorists and gangsters is expected to lead to reduction in these criminal gangs being patronized by politicians. However, along with this, politicians with known record of having links with drug peddlers should be tackled with clear directions to the police and intelligence, reads the article published in May 2017, issue of the Observer Research Foundation.
 
 Where drug addicts are being apprehended by the police, the big suppliers have virtually remained untouched, points out the article ‘War on Drugs: Challenges for the Punjab Government’ which was also been tweeted by   leader Subramanian Swami last week.
 
 The silver lining is that if the Punjab government is able to make a tangible change by bringing about synergy in various agencies, the nexus will collapse. To look at the availability of drugs among jail inmates, there is need for police to keep a close eye on the addicts among drug smugglers serving jail terms, suggested   and assistant professor Vinay Kaura.
 
 The analysis points out that where drug addicts are being caught, the big suppliers have virtually remained untouched. The   government, it claims, has not spelt out clearly how the new strategy to target the suppliers would be different from that pursued by the previous government. Except for public statements, there is no blueprint on how the government proposes to tackle the enduring police-politician-peddler nexus, it says.
 
  told  , “There is significant evidence of organized drug cartels and powerful drug traffickers in Punjab having dramatically changed and weakened the law enforcement agencies and local political organizations. The role of police and other bureaucrats responsible for implementing state projects must be monitored by the SIT to ensure that they perform their jobs properly.”
 
 An official spokesperson of Punjab government has, meanwhile, claimed that the government drug de-addiction centers has seen an increase in   visits and indoor patients, over the average monthly figures of 2016, after the installation of the new government.
 
 The resolve of the government, said the spokesperson, had seen a massive increase in drugs-related cases, arrests and seizures in the last two weeks of April. While recovery of poppy husk had almost tripled, that of opium was more than double, of powder almost more than double and ganja almost double. Similarly, the recovery of the medicinal drugs had tripled in this period, as per official data.
 
 “The Punjab Police have limited capacity to investigate narco-terror, particularly related to modern technological and scientific tools to counter the problem. The low conviction rates and delay in punishment under the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act have also proved to be problem areas,” he added.
 
