BENGALURU: All of 22, Razia is yet to reconcile with her life in jail.

 She lacks the maturity and acceptance of her fellow inmates, who are gradually becoming her family.
 
 “My fate has brought me here. Whether I like it or not, I have to be here. This place is becoming home and these women my family,“ Razia says with a smile.
 
  for Women is home to 88 inmates, in their early twenties to those approaching the twilight of their lives, who share their joys and sorrows, and trials and tribulations with each other. They are allowed to keep their children with them till the age of seven. Busy getting dressed up for   , celebrated at the jail only for the sec ond time in all these years. The day gives them a rare opportunity to get in their best and the brightest, to look beautiful and celebrate life.
 
 Gunasagari, 42, has been in the jail for the past three years and five months. She was involved in her brother's death.She says they eagerly look forward to such occasions when they get a chance to see and meet new people, breaking the monotony of their otherwise mundane life.
 
 “We carefully keep our nice clothes and like to look good when people come to see us,“ Gunasagari proudly says. “Otherwise nobody is allowed inside,“ she adds.
 
 Thin but full of life, Gowramma, whose entire family, including her daughter, son and husband, is behind bars, speaks about herself with a resigned smile. “I have been here for a long time. My daughter is also here with me. My husband and son are imprisoned in Bengaluru,“ she says, explaining that her family was embroiled in a dowry case.
 
 Living together has taught them to live in harmony . A selfsufficient group of caring women, they, like any other family, fight but are quick to make up. Caste, language and age are no bar for them.
 
  D'Souza, 40, was imprisoned here in a cheque bounce case. She says they are mothers, daughters and sisters to one another. “We do fight oc casionally, and over petty things such as taking other's plate or breaking queue to fill water. But we soon make up,“ she says laughing.
 
 “Pramila is among the few literate inmates of the prison,“ says Cecilia Davies, a social worker. Confronted with their inadequacy for the first time in prison, these women learn to read and write Kannada from the unofficial jail instructor, Yashodha, who also works part time in the jail kitchen.
 
 Padma, 22, belongs to  , and speaks, reads and writes Kannada. She took to learning the language to ease her life in the jail, and is seeking permission to write her BA exam from the prison. “With Latha madam's help, we are preparing to write our exam from here,“ she says.
 
 Except the undertrials, all others are required to be in the white prison uniform, and are allowed to wear other clothes only on special occasions.
 
 Far away from her family, 25-year-old Lakshmi says, “Of all the punishments, imprisonment is the worst. Away from our families and loved ones, we cannot see them grow up. Nobody deserves to be in jail.“
 
 Preethi, 25, who belongs to Mumbai, and was embroiled in a murder case, has a more pragmatic and positive approach. “I enrolled in a beautician course so that I can get a job when I leave this place. I read newspapers and keep myself updated of potential jobs,“ she said.
 
 Undertrial's girl is prison's darling
 
 Humaiubin, an undertrial from Ballari, doesn't remember her age.
 
 She came to the women's prison in   a month ago along with her two-and-a half-year-old daughter, Nikah. Arrested in a kidnapping case, she can only be free once the bail amount is raised.“I'm waiting to leave this place in a month. I don't know how much the exact bail amount is. Some say it's Rs 2,00,000,“ she says. Her little daughter is the darling of the prison, with elderly inmates feeding her and scolding her for straying too far.
 
