KOLHAPUR: The 126-year-old Chhatrapati   terminus is in   of attention.

 Missing roofs, lack of waiting rooms,   shelters, littered wash basin and water greet passengers as they enter the station for their train journey. 
 
 The   was built in the 19th Century to connect with the Miraj junction and the southern parts of the country. Despite its long history, the   has been neglected and needs urgent upgrade. 
 
 Member of the central zonal railway user consultative committee, Shivnath Biyani, said the Kolhapur railway station has legacy of 126 years. However, its present condition is poor and needs adequate infrastructure to cater the need of the increasing number of passengers, he said.
 
 “The work of the roof of platform number one, two and three is incomplete. Passengers waiting to board trains have to wait without any shelter in the sweltering heat. The work should be completed as soon as possible as the monsoon is just a few weeks away. Passengers cannot be made to stand on the platform without shelter during the rains,” he said. 
 
 Member of Pune divisional user consultative committee, Mohan Shete, said the work of the automated escalator connecting platform number two to Rajarampuri is still to be completed. They have just raised the iron pillars and left work midway. 
 
 “The railway administration had approved Rs 1.89 crore for the work. The administration should give push to the work. At present, the passengers are forced to cross the track to reach the platform from Rajarampuri. It is not only dangerous but also prohibited by the railways, but passengers had no choice. The station lacks basic cleanliness, drinking water facilities,” he said. 
 
 Shete added that in the absence of adequate waiting rooms and proper canteen, the passengers are forced to eat and sleep on the platforms.
 
 Pawan Sarkate, a regular railway passenger, said there is no proper drinking water system at the station. “The wash basins are not properly maintained and hardly ever cleaned. They have paan stains and rusted. It is extremely unhygienic and unsafe to drink this water. The railways should take note of these issues and take corrective steps,” he said. 
 
 A senior railway officer, on the condition of anonymity, said that the cleaning work has been allotted private contractors and they only monitor its progress. 
 
 Another senior official of Pune division of   (CR), under which the Kolhapur station falls, said the work of the automated escalator has stopped due to a contract-related issue “We will try to start all the pending work with immediate effect. We are also thinking of restoration on the old station building,” he said.
 
