KOLKATA: An 18-year-old   was among two people who were killed after the bike they were on skidded off the road and rammed against the   late on Sunday . Payel Guha was flung off the bike and fell 35 feet to her death off the  .Her friend  , 20, who was  , dashed his head against an   and died on the flyover itself.

 The accident happened at 10.30pm, when the duo, both Netajinagar residents, were returning home from a joyride along the Bypass, with two other friends on another bike. According to witnesses, the youth was driving recklessly , and neither was wearing a helmet.
 
 Police said Rahul was racing his bike at more than 100kmph against his friend Aman Saif, when he lost control at a sharp curve on the city-bound flank and slammed into the siderail. The bike's handle broke on impact, and the two were flung off the vehicle. The boy's head hit the iron pole of a traffic sign, while Payel fell down on the road below the flyover at Kamalgazi Bazaar. “She fell on the bonnet of a moving cab. The car braked and she fell off the car on to the road. She was bleeding from her face, head and abdomen. She wasn't breathing,“ said Sourav Roy , who runs a salo on nearby .
 
 Passersby alerted cops and took Payel to a nursing home in the cab itself. Rahul, found lying bleeding on the bridge, was taken to the same nursing home in another car. “Our doctors checked them but both of them were dead,“ said a senior official of the nursing home.
 
 The 1.16km Kamalgazi flyover, on the southern fringes of the Bypass, was thrown open to traffic in January last year. It runs over the busy Kamalgazi crossing, the intersection of the Bypass and NS Road that leads to Narendrapur, Rajpur and Baruipur. The flyover terminates on the Baruipur Bypass, running parallel to NS Road.
 
 Payel, a student at Putiary Braja Mohan Tewary Girls' High School, had dropped out of school for two years because of financial constraints in the family after her father's death.But this year, she had registered herself at the school again and was to appear for her math examination on Monday . “She was a hard worker,“ said Nandita Samanta, the headmistress.
 
 Payel's brother Akash said that she had left home around 9.30pm. “Yesterday , two of her friends came to our house and asked her for an hour's drive on a bike. She said she needed a break from studying and went with them. Later, the police called us up to say that she had an accident,“ he said.
 
 Locals said the bridge, at night, turns into a race track for youths. “We have complained to the police but they have done nothing to check racing. This is the sixth accident on the bridge in the last two months,“ said Amar Halder, a local resident.
 
