KOLKATA: A Facebook post by  , the daughter of Ananda and Tanusree Shankar, has created quite a stir in the culture world of Kolkata. Sreenanda, who is currently in the US, has written on Facebook: "Sometimes I don't mention enough how proud I am of you Ma. Wikipedia also says that   is taking forward the Uday Shankar style. Uday Shankar, Ravi Shankar and Tanusree Shankar are the only ones who have received the   in this family. Papa and Dadu must be so proud of you. Thank God the world is not blind!" This post came after Udayan Kalam Kendra, where Sreenanda's aunt Mamata Shankar is the principal, had circulated a poster online saying "this is the one and only dance institution in the world to teach Uday Shankar style of dance".

 Meanwhile, the website of The Tanusree Shankar Dance Academy in Kolkata mentions that it "imparts training in the Shankar Technique of New Dance following the path shown by the legendary genius, Uday Shankar. The main inspiration behind the Academy is globally acclaimed musician, Ananda Shankar. Tanusree Shankar and senior staff members of the institution teach the grammar of this unique 'gharana'." Excerpts from an interview with Sreenanda, who is currently in Virginia:
 
 
 
 Well, my mother is carrying it forward beautifully and it's mentioned on Wikipedia under my Dadu's name. So, I wanted to just share it and mention I'm proud of her.
 
 Rita Kundu, a teacher of the Tanusree Shankar Dance Academy, has said that it was unfair of  , of which Mamata Shankar is the principal, to claim that it is the one and only institution to carry forward the authentic Uday Shankar dance style…
 
 What anyone claims really doesn't make a difference to us. The truth is on Wikipedia and I wanted to share it. It was not with the intention of any controversy. What the world can see is what matters. Tanusree Shankar Dance Academy doesn't need to go out of the way to prove anything. 
 
 
 
 
 No, I posted this myself because that's what it officially says. My mother had dedicated her life to this style and has been acknowledged. There are lots of people who teach this style. There is no one school. The style is creative and the grammar varies based on how each school teaches it. No one school can claim that's the only authentic institution. Lots of people teach it and teach it right. The fact that Wikipedia acknowledges my mom makes me proud.
 
 
 
 
 I have seen it. I have nothing to do with them and what they say. They shared a customised poster and I shared what Wikipedia says. I shared what's out there and not an imposed poster. That's the difference.
 
 
  
 
 
 
 Family has nothing to do with blood. It is about behaviour. Did she consult with the family before posting the "not true" poster? The reason I had to share the Wikipedia post is because it is stupid to behave possessive about an art that my grandfather started and my grandmother beautifully passed on to this generation. There is no proof that they teach the authentic style. So a poster doesn't change facts. And who proves what is authentic? Just a random poster? The world has recognised my mother's contribution and acknowledged it in every way. Still she is dignified enough to stick to the truth that there are many people who teach the authentic style. She calls it the Shankar technique. Claiming something on a poster means nothing! Uday Shankar belongs to the world and lots of people are teaching it beautifully and teaching it right. Claiming Uday Shankar's legacy to be one's own by virtue of being related by blood is just like saying that nobody other than Rabindranath Tagore's family can perform or teach Rabindra Sangeet. Hope one day she will have a big heart which is needed to be a good teacher. What about what her students teach? Won't that be authentic too just like what my mother's students teach? A good teacher will encourage her students and troupe members and not get irritated if they do well. A good teacher is like a strong banyan tree where even when the trunk dies, the aerial roots keep it standing. Uday Shankar was like that. This is something I leant from my father Ananda Shankar who would have been proud of what I'm doing as he would have done the same. While I am alive as a direct descendant of Uday Shankar and Ananda Shankar, I will fight her petty claims. I am thankful to the dancers and teachers who are taking this style forward and keeping Uday Shankar alive. I stand with the whole dance fraternity who will agree with me.
 
 
 
 
 My mother has got her due. She has the respect she deserves. I just had to do what I had to. As a daughter, I had to stand up for her. She got the Sangeet Natak Akademi. Only Uday Shankar and Ravi Shankar have got that in this family. I just don't think any one school can claim the style. That's inaccurate. I just shared the fact. I don't take what they wrote seriously. Neither does the public.
 
 
 
 
 I don't think the general public will take a customised poster seriously compared to what is out there on Wikipedia. This has not been written by us. So the world knows the truth. No one person can claim to teach it. I'm just proud that Ma got the acknowledgment on a world forum like Wikipedia.
 
 
 
 
 Yes she saw it. She just said "thank you baby" to me. She thanked me for the post as she thought it was thoughtful of me. She seconds the fact that there is not just one school that teaches it. Uday Shankar is too larger than life. His wings have spread everywhere. She believes that too. She thanked me for the respectful post I wrote for her.
 
 
 
 I needed a break. So, I came to New York first to spend some time with my cousin. Now, I'm with my husband. He's here for work and I came along to chill. I'm back in Mumbai on March 8 and in Kolkata on March 10.
 
