Nagpur: The ongoing construction of the   in Sadar has turned two stretches — Acharaj Tower to Mankapur stadium and from Acharaj Tower to ZP School on Katol Road — into an accident-prone spots. Roads are broken, streetlights have been removed and haphazard barricading along the stretch where the work is being executed are posing a threat to motorists. 

 TOI visited the area and found that two-wheeler riders have to endlessly battle bad patches along the construction sites with metal rods jutting out, no streetlights (thus absolute darkness at night) and a never-ending stream of heavy vehicular traffic, day and night.
 
 The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) had entrusted the Rs 218 crore construction work of the Y-shaped flyover to KCC Buildcon Prviate Limited, but the firm is ignoring safety rules. TOI had highlighted the issue earlier as well.
 
 “It’s extremely disappointing to note that the contractor and authorities are not responsible enough to follow simple principles of providing motorable conditions of available roadsides and sufficient illumination during night with effective streetlights,” said Tejinder Singh Renu, a resident of Raj Nagar who regularly uses the Liberty-Mental Hospital Square flyover under-construction stretch.
 
 The roadside condition nowadays is extremely bad and it becomes miserable at nights (with no streetlights). The situation worsens if it’s raining.
 
 “NHAI and the authorities concerned should take appropriate measures to remove such anomalies on priority, as these conditions might have caused accidents and injuries to a few citizens,” he said.
 
 Without proper barricading, there are around dozen spots at the construction site that have become accident-prone, said Behram Patel, aniother resident. He said drivers of the contractor remove the barricades whenever they bring construction material. But they leave these open posing danger to motorists.
 
 “Accidents have become a regular feature,” he said. Even the footpath in front of Patel’s house has been dug up three times for different works in a month. “Why didn’t the agency plan the works?” he questioned.
 
 Lack of sufficient streetlights on the patch from Chhaoni police post to Chhaoni mosque is another concern with potholes on either side. Residents claimed that they had pointed out the problems to the contractor as well as the NHAI several times but there has been no response. 
 
 Motorists suggest that NHAI should at least consider levelling the pothole with bitumen to prevent accidents.
 
 Senior PI Jayesh Bhandarkar said the Chamber-II of traffic police too have come across lack of safety measures and has asked the contractor to follow the conditions strictly. “In the past, we had stopped the work following violations of the terms and conditions put up by us,” he said.
 
 NHAI’s manager (technical) Prashant Mendhe assured to resolve the issues. He also claimed that NHAI has entrusted a consultant over the private firm so that it follows all terms and conditions of the agreement.
 
 
