Kolkata: A minute-long nor’wester struck Kolkata with a wind speed of 75 km per hour on Saturday, leaving in its wake a trail of 20 uprooted trees, several blocked roads and a traffic mess. It also made the mercury plunge by several degrees from the day’s high of 37.6°C. 

 The storm was triggered by a 10-12km-tall cumulonimbus cloud that towered over almost the entire south Bengal region. Apart from Kolkata, Howrah, North and South 24 Parganas, Nadia, Burdwan, Midnapore and Hooghly were lashed by thunderstorms and rain as well. The city received 9.8 mm of rain.
 
 It was exactly at 4.02pm that the nor’wester lashed the city. The skies had started turning dark at least half-an-hour before that and the signs were clear. But Kolkatans kept fingers crossed for the last few thundershowers had petered off without much impact. But the tall clouds thundered over the city and this time led to a proper nor’wester. “The clouds were tall and had formed over Jharkhand. They reached south Bengal at an incredible speed of 50-60 km per hour. So, the nor’wester couldn’t be predicted very early,” said GK Das, director, Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC).
 
 The squall further depleted the city’s dwindling greenery. As many as 20 full-grown trees were uprooted, according to a preliminary report by the Kolkata Municipal Corporation parks department. A senior official in the department said that majority of the uprooted trees were aged between 50 and 60 years. Four were injured when the wall of a marriage hall collapsed on a house at Narkeldanga. At Lake Town, an auto driver was injured when a tree fell on his vehicle. 
 
 Traffic came to a grinding halt on Chittaranjan Avenue after three trees fell on the road. Traffic was also disrupted on Beliaghata Main Road. Down south, traffic was affected on Alipore Road, Ballygunge Circular Road, Southern Avenue and Kankulia Road. Mayor Sovan Chatterjee and municipal commissioner Khalil Ahmed rushed to the KMC headquarters in the evening after CM Mamata Banerjee asked Chatterjee to ensure that trees uprooted on busy roads were removed without delay. 
 
 At Kolkata airport, the squall and huge cloud build-up played havoc with flight schedules. At least 16 flights were forced to hover around till the sky cleared. Eight flights were diverted — six to Bhubaneshwar and one each to Ranchi and Agartala. “The squall line comprising multiple 12-14km tall cloud led to strong shear winds. They can be perilous for aircraft and hence we had sent out a warning in advance,” said GC Debnath, the weatherman at Kolkata airport. The squall speed recorded at Dum Dum   office was 62 kmph. 
 
 The Met office has predicted another thundershower on Sunday. But it could be a weak one. “The conditions are yet to turn favourable. But we are not ruling out a possibility,” said Das.
 
 
