  

 
   ,  
 
 
  V.V. Vinayak
 
 
  11 Jan, 2017
 
 
  Khaidi No. 150 is an Indian Telugu-language action drama film directed by V. V. Vinayak, and written by AR Murugadoss. The film features Chiranjeevi, Kajal Agarwal in the lead role and marks as the former's comeback to acting after 10 years in his 150th film. It is a remake of the Tamil film Kaththi. Principal photography of the film commenced in June 2016 in Hyderabad.
 
 
 
 
 And it has finally arrived! The much-awaited comebak film of Megastar Chiranjeevi, after almost a decade sent fans into a frenzy. Khaidi No 150 although had lukewarm responses from the trailer, (it was compared to the original) the film seemed to have pleased the audiences. Khaidi No 150 as promised is a treat for Mega fans with the matinee idol's trademark dances, mannerism and intense acting in emotional scenes. Ram Charan's 30 second cameo was a highlight. 
 
 Khaidi No 150 deviated a little from the original to match the larger than life image of Chiranjeevi but it looked like the audience had no issues with it. Khaidi No 150 is a good watch as a film but is a must-watch for the avid Tollywood fan, for the mere mania it creates in the theatres.
 
 
  
 
 The story has it’s heart in the right place. Chiranjeevi does the needful to play an a son of the soil, who is heading a motely bunch of old men who don’t want to part with their land. Tarun, Anjala Zaveri’s husband plays the vicious corporate honcho who wants to set up a factory on their farm lands, albeit a little too underwhelmingly. The action and drama bits are alright, as are some bits of the comedy tracks that involve a barrage of funny men — Ali, Brahmanandam and Posani. But does it all come together as a film? We aren’t sure. But yes, Chiranjeevi is back for sure, although we can’t quite say he’s back with a bang. 
 
 
 Khaidi No. 150 is likely to collect over Rs 30 crore gross at the box offices in the twin states on its first day alone. It is likely to fetch Rs 23 to 25 crore for its distributors in the states on its opening day.
 
 Meanwhile, the records on the US premiers have already been broken. Khaidi collected $1.4 million from just the premiers as per reports. How it will be grossing ahead this festive season can only be imagined. It is being said that Khaidi has broken the opening records of Bahubali both in India and US. 
 
 
 
 
 Khaidi No 150 has been breaking records left, right and centre in terms of collections. While we earlier reported in our box office predictions that the film is set to open to a Rs. 24 crore share alone in both Andhra and Telangana. Keeping that promise intact and more, the film's Day 1 collections took the Box office by storm with a whopping 30 crore gross (approximately).
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 The moment Megastar Chiranjeevi's comeback film, 'KhaidiNo 150' hit the screens, there were bee lines and jam packed crowds at every single theatre and that of multiplexes. The response from audience overseas was overwhelming too, in a way that the social network sites are bombarded with reports of first day collections and images of the frenzied fans.
 
 Here are a few reviews from the celebrities of Tollywood, who watched the movie and couldn't stop appreciating the team. Read on:
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
