GURUGRAM: Two years after the   issued guidelines for pollution control centres to follow while issuing pollution under control (PUC) certificates to vehicles and the recent   order to the Road and Transport Authority to inspect all   in the city, TOI has found at least three such centres in the city that are issuing fake PUC certificates to vehicles owners. This is despite the regular inspections being carried out by the regional transport authority in Gurgaon.

 While two PUC centres were found to be operating out of Maruti vans in Sector 56 and near Guru Dronacharya Metro station respectively, one was seen operating out of a cart on   Road. Here PUC certificates were being issued to vehicles without any check.
 
 “It takes just two minutes here to get a PUC certificate, while it takes about 10 minutes at the authorised centres,” said Sadhana Rajaani, a resident of Golf Course Road.
 
 “I have a diesel car. While authorised PUC centres charge Rs 100, it is available for Rs 60 here. One gets the same certificate everywhere. So how does it matter?” questioned Gaurav Thakur, a resident of Sector 28.
 
 The state government mandates Rs 50 for a two-wheeler, Rs 80 for three- and four-wheelers of petrol, CNG or LPG, while for diesel vehicles the fee is Rs 100 for a PUC certificate, but these fake centres charge anything between Rs 50 and Rs 200 for the same.
 
 According to norms, a PUC centre should have a cabin appropriately designed to protect the system from heat, direct sunlight and rain.
 
 When asked to produce permission from authorities to run a PUC centre, an operator at Sector 56 said, “We have been running this business for the past five years. Nobody ever came to us and asked for the permission. We are only issuing certificates and making sure vehicles are not causing pollution.” 
 
 When contacted,   secretary Trilok said, “Such centres are definitely illegal. We have been carrying out inspections from time to time and sealed many such centres recently.” 
 
 
