PUNE:   working in the field of   have sought that like stents, other medical   should have a   cap because there is huge profiteering.

 “This profiteering has been revealed by Harshdeep Kamble, former commissioner of Food and Drug Administration (FDA), just before his retirement. In his June 4 letter to the National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority (NPPA), Kamble stated that investigations revealed there was huge profiteering in balloon catheters and guiding catheters required during angioplasty though the prices of cardiac stents have been capped,” said senior health activist Anant Phadke of Jan Aarogya Abhiyaan (JAA). The organisation is a network of NGOs that work on various aspects related to the field of health.
 
 Phadke said, “It was found that of the Rs20,000 to Rs25,000 paid by patients for balloon catheters, as much as 47% was pocketed by traders and hospitals.”
 
 He added, “Similarly, out of Rs5,000 to 10,000 paid by patients for the guide-wires used during angioplasty, more than 70% of the amount is pocketed by traders and hospitals.”
 
 Sharing the view, another health activist Abhijit More said, “FDA also found that an artificial lens used in cataract surgery is imported at Rs4,400 but the purchase price for hospitals and patients is Rs6,000 and Rs9,575, respectively. FDA did investigations for 18 such devices and found that patients have to pay 200% to 300% extra due to this profiteering. For example, one type of needle used to put into an artery costs Rs800 to the hospitals whereas the MRP is Rs2,200.”
 
 He said, “Virendar Sangwan, a social activist lawyer filed a series of PILs because of which stents were first included in the list of medicines and then in NLEM (National List of Essential Medicines). It was only then the government brought stents under price control. Jan Aarogya Abhiyaan demands that in case of all the other medical devices, the government should carry out these legalities on its own and there should not be a need for any activist to launch a PIL for this purpose.”
 
