LUCKNOW: After jointly launching the SP-Congress alliance's 'UP Ko Ye Saath Pasand Hai' campaign, Congress vice-president   and chief minister   will take their joint campaign to Agra on February 3. The two youth leaders will hold a joint road show, ending in a public address in the city which goes to the polls on February 11. 

 The Rohilkhand region, of which Agra is a part, accounts for 13% to 23% Dalits, and about 40% Muslims. The region is also home to about 30% people from the backward classes, while Brahmins constitute a substantial part of the region's population too. While BSP holds away over the bulk of the region, the Congress-SP, through their alliance, hope to swing the minority, backward and Brahmin votes in their favour. 
 
 Shortly after, the SP and Congress leaders will also launch the alliance's Common Minimum Programme in Kanpur on February 5. The 10-point CMP will be over and above  's election manifesto and is expected to include some of the "minimums" that Congress president Rahul Gandhi had said on January 29 were crucial to the pre-poll alliance between the SP and Congress. 
 
 Sources in the Samajwadi Party told TOI that Congress has pushed for the inclusion of some promises in the farm sector in the 10-point CMP. In September, Rahul had led a month-long   through Uttar Pradesh, in which the Congress had promised farm loan waivers, halving of electricity bills, and ensuring that farmers get minimum support prices fixed for their produce. On January 29, Rahul had also said the party believed in doing the politics focussed on the poor, and added that the Samajwadi Party had agreed on both these aspects. 
 
 The final modalities of the programme, sources in the SP said, are being worked out and will be announced shortly. Party insiders also said the announcement of the common agenda will be made during a joint press conference, which will be followed, soon after, by a road show of the kind that was has been planned in Lucknow and Agra. More joint public rallies by Rahul and Akhilesh are also being planned. 
 
 Even though the Congress and SP have tried to lead a much-hyped joint campaign, the two parties have not been able to iron out differences over ticket and seat distribution. While a decision over assembly seats in Amethi and Rae Bareli remains in limbo, Lucknow witnessed an embarrassing problem of plenty for SP and Congress candidates on Tuesday, when candidates from both parties filed their nominations, each claiming to be 'the' party nominee. 
 
