The   released by the Urban Development Department have left citizens feeling a bit squeezed out. Citizens will meet on Saturday to discuss a   the government is ‘trying to sneak in’ – that of allowing commercial establishments to come up even on roads that are just 30-ft wide.

 They are calling this move an encroachment on the peace in their localities, and will come together under the banner – Bangalore Wake up. Their demand is this – the government must not notify these draft rules.
 
 The draft rules aim to slot all residential areas under just one category of residential, instead of the current two categories — residential main and residential mix. This allows shops to come up on roads narrower than the current requirement that they should be at least 45-ft wide.
 
 Citizens said these regulations, if notified, would transform   into market places.
 
 They said that despite the Supreme and High Courts’ rulings, the state government was trying to sneak in the regulation.
 
 They termed the draft notification as an attempt to ruin the peace and quiet of their neighbourhoods due to pressure from the real estate mafia.
 
 Major Promod Kapur, who is part of the   association, told BM, “Residents of many areas are against this. Most resident welfare associations are against the proposal and we will meet to come up with an agenda to chalk out our future course of action.”
 
 These RWAs will also organise a session to help people understand what this new draft means and how it is different from the existing law. Kapur added that the RWAs have also sent invitations to the people’s representatives.
 
 Officials of the Urban Development Department, however, said commercial establishments that would be allowed to come up on narrow roads would provide only essential services (such as milk parlours, tea stalls, fruit, vegetable stalls, pharmacies and small eateries). But, there is a move by the department to allow even power looms up to the capacity of 2 HP on narrow roads, which could mean that micro and small industries may come up in these localities.
 
 Vijayan Menon, a member of Citizens’ Action Forum, said, “We want to make it clear that we are against this notification. During Saturday’s meeting, we will disseminate the information to RWAs and individuals on our objections. Taking it forward, we plan to meet the Chief Minister and the Governor in a few days and request them not to notify the draft guidelines. Our main objections pertain to the plan that if the draft rules come into place then even an IT company can be set up in a 30-feet road. The whole exercise has been done in a hush-hush manner. We are also questioning the authority of the urban development department to come up with these draft rules when there is a larger body like the metropolitan planning authority.”
 
