BAREILLY: In an attempt to show   in transforming villages into   (ODF) ones under the   (SBM), the   (DPRO) here has uploaded names of 41 villages on the central government's SBM portal. However, the ground reality is completely different. A state level committee has so far verified only five villages as ODF in the district. The newly appointed   (CDO) Satendra Kumar, who took charge on Monday, said he would look into the matter and appropriate action would be taken accordingly.
 
  CDO Kumar said there must be transparency in uploading names of ODF villages on the SBM website.
  
  When asked about this discrepancy, DPRO Vinay Kumar Singh said that the names of 41 villages were uploaded following the reports of gram panchayat samitis. "If the district level committee (DLC) and the state level committee (SLC) have found discrepancies in reporting all these villages as ODF, the names of villages that have not been verified would be removed from the SBM website.
  
  Till the end of financial year 2016-17, only five villages in the district were ODF while funds were transferred to more than 20,000 beneficiaries in 1,193 gram panchayats across the district. Earlier, funds were given to village heads, on whose recommendation toilets were built. But after reports of misappropriation of funds emerged, the state government in November last year decided to transfer the funds to the beneficiaries’ account directly. A sum of Rs 12,000 is given to each beneficiary to construct a toilet in his house.
  
  On April 16 this year, principal secretary Chandan Tiwari visited Chandora village under Sadar tehsil, and expressed his disappointment over the slow progress of ODF drive in the district. Chandora is one of the five villages in the district which were declared as ODF. Soon after his visit to the district, the SBM website saw rapid uploading of names of villages that have become ODF.
  
  Briefing about the process of how a village is declared ODF, DPRO Vinay Kumar Singh, Said, “First we receive a report from the gram panchayat samiti, following which the district level, the divisional level and finally the state level committees examine the status of toilets constructed under SBM. The entire process generally takes six months. The state level committee also observes whether any behavioural changes have taken place among the villagers and whether they are using the toilets. After studying all aspects, the SLC verifies the DLS’s recommendations and gives a certificate to a village declaring it as ODF.”
