By 
 

 This   was literally laughing his way to the bank when he found out that he would have to write a   for   to get his  .
 
 S Sathish, 35, a farmer from Mysuru, had been using the SBI   with the Vijayanagar branch for the last five years.
 
 He wanted to terminate his credit card, and called up the customer service executive for the same. The executive told him that he would have to clear his outstanding balance in order to close the card.
 
 “I was shocked to hear that I had to clear the balance as I have always been regular with my payments. However, I thought maybe I had to pay the service charge. But when the executive told me that I had to clear the amount of 5 paise, I didn’t know whether to laugh or cry,” said Sathish.
 
 The farmer thought that the bank officials were pulling his leg, but gathered that the matter was serious when the bank system did not proceed to close the card without clearance of the balance.
 
 Sathish then decided to pay with Rs 10, but his friend gave him the idea to pay the outstanding amount with a cheque of 5 paise.
 
 When Sathish went to the cash payment counter with the cheque on March 18, even the teller couldn’t believe what he was seeing. The cheque elicited huge laughter in the branch, with employees saying “we have never seen such a cheque.”
 
 However, the bank accepted the cheque and the credit card was closed. In fact, the processing charge of Rs 3 for closing the card was much more than the clearing amount.
 
 Speaking to Bangalore Mirror, Sathish, whose pet name ‘Gundlupet Sathish’ has now been changed to ‘Aidu Paiseya Sathisha’ (5 Paise’s Sathisha) by his friends, said, “Our banks have not evolved despite technology and other things. The banking sector should evolve to rule out such tiny amount of money.”
 
 Branch officials said the customer could have paid through Internal Money Transfer or ATM swiping.
 
 “But the customer was very particular about clearing the balance. Bank officials are not supposed to refuse payment by customers through any forms of transfer. The customer had a Non-CTS cheque and he paid through it,” they said.
 
 The officials said the customer did the right thing as the 5 paise outstanding amount would have multiplied if he had not cleared it.
 
 “We must say this is the first ever such incident we have come across till the date,” they said, adding they are in talks with the credit card wing to guide them in such cases.
 
 
