Mohali: Officials of Mohali municipal corporation have come under scanner as they are being suspected to be hand in glove with dairy owners over the issue of  . The allegations were raised when Mohali MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu during his visit to inspect a park in Sector 71 was informed that six cows were found in the park but before they could reach, one of the MC officials informed the cattle owner after which the cattle was removed from the spot. 

 MLA Sidhu directed police officials to register cases against the owners of the cattle found in parks. Finding the MC officials to be in alliance with dairy owners, Sidhu has also asked MC commissioner to take stern action against erring officials.
 
 Two residents of marla plot houses alleged that the stray animals with the involvement of officials of municipal corporation were being left in parks, which has been creating problems for the residents. Following this, Sidhu issued a warning to Kesar Singh, a municipal corporation official, and said a case should be registered against the owner for leaving their livestock at parks and no collusion in this regard will be tolerated.
 
 During the recent MC house meet the councillors had also raised the issue of Kesar Singh being hand in glove with the stray cattle owners. However, on the other hand Kesar Singh has been claiming to be a victim of the apathy of the stray cattle owners and had also alleged that he and his team members have been attacked by the stray cattle owners when they went to catch the latter.
 
 Mayor Kulwant Singh said, “The complaints against stray cattle catching team are increasing day by day. We have asked Kesar Singh to submit a detailed report on number of stray cattle captured in the past six months and number of challans issued. We will take stern action against the erring officials.”
 
 Kesar Singh pleading his innocence said, “I have been attacked four times while catching stray cattle. There is political involvement in the activity which is beyond our reach. Police is also not taking any action against such dairy farm owners who have allegedly attacked me and others.”
 
 Councillor Sukhdev Singh Patwari said, “MC officials have been making money out of their alliances with cattle owners and also use their people as a team to catch stray cattle instead of MC contractual employees. Such an activity must be brought to a halt.” 
 
 
