Director Maruti’s films, apart from being high on entertainment value, stand out for their quirky characters. It’s no different in his upcoming romcom  , starring   and   in the lead roles. In 
conversation with Hyderabad Times, the filmmaker gives a sneak peek into the characters that inhabit the world of Mahanubhavudu.
 
 Ananad, the techie with a major ‘ocd’
 Sharwanand plays an IT professional, Anand, who suffers from an   (OCD). He is so finicky that if he sees a pen without its cap, he’ll go and cap it for fear that the ink may dry up. Similarly, he is so obsessive about cleanliness that he expects a girl who asks him out to wear gloves and use a hand sanitiser. If he sees someone’s bike looking dirty, he will clean it up. What happens when such a person sets out to win the hand of his lady love, that’s what the film is about.
 
 The village belle and doting beti
 Mehreen Pirzada plays Meghna, a village belle who is everything that Anand is not. While Anand is a recluse, she is a people’s person who loves to socialise. She dotes on her father, and also falls for Anand, who takes it upon himself to help her father out.
 
 Kishore, the NRI cuz and resident comedian
 Adding a healthy dose of comedy to the proceedings is  , who plays the role of Kishore in the film. He is an NRI and a cousin of Anand. Kishore, who works from home, is a nightowl. He ends up bearing the brunt of Anand’s OCD. The 
 ensuing situational comedy in scenes between the two are sure to make you laugh out loud.
 
 Ramaraju, the revered daddy
 Nasser plays Ramaraju, who is the heroine Meghna’s father. He is a revered person in his village; someone for whom honour means everything. Ramaraju is almost like a sarpanch in the village, everyone looks up to him. How he finds himself in a sticky situation and how Anand rushes in to help him, with the ulterior motive of winning his daughter’s hand, makes for an entertaining watch.
 
 Bhadram, the rather ‘oily’ house help
 Bhadram, who plays an eponymous character, happens to be the right-hand man of Ramaraju and is constantly by the side of his master. He has one annoying habit though — irrespective of what time of the day it is, Bhadram is forever applying oil on himself. How the “cleanliness-obsessed” Anand is forced to put up with this oily eccentricity is sure to leave the audience in splits.
 
 The loving ‘amma’ of an eccentric son
 last, but not the least, comes Kalyani Natarajan, who plays Sharwanand’s mother. She is a professor who loves her son to the hilt. However, Anand is the sort of guy who keeps even his mother at an arm’s distance when she has a fever. She’s a newcomer, but I’m especially impressed with her performance and I’m sure the audience will love her too. 
 
 
