HYDERABAD: A Nigerian gang indulging in drug and human trafficking was busted by police in the city on Monday. Police arrested six people, including five Nigerians and a woman from Vijayawada, in possession of a wide variety of drugs, including cocaine, brown sugar and amphetamine. 

 The Rachakonda police arrested P Sangeetha, 35, a resident of Flat No 103, P&T Colony, Suncity, Rajendranagar, her partner Ojukwu Cosmas, 30, their associates John Okorie, 26, a BA student of Nizam College, Okereke Cyril Anezi, 31, a BCom student of   and president of Nigerians in Hyderabad, John Paul Oneybuchi, 34, a resident of Flat No. 201, Thiru Apartment in Laxmi Nagar Colony, Yapral, and Ogunka Henry Okechukwu, 31. 
 
 Acting on a tip-off, SOT sleuths of Rachakonda police arrested Sangeetha and John at LB Nagar main bus stop on Sunday night and seized three grams of cocaine and 200 grams of ganja from their possession. 
 
 Based on Sangeetha and John’s confessions, police raided Flat Number 103 in P&T Colony, Suncity, Rajendranagar and arrested Cosmas having 10 grams of cocaine, 12 grams of brown sugar, 37 blue amphetamine tablets and 40 pink amphetamine tablets, a laptop, `1.54 lakh cash, three cell phones and an Activa vehicle in his possession. 
 
 Cosmas then told about his drug business in Hyderabad. “He had been procuring drugs from his friend Gabriel, who operates from Goa and Hyderabad. He supplied drugs through Sangeetha, John Paul and Henry,” Rachakonda commissioner Mahesh Bhagawat said. 
 
 After confessing about his drug network, Cosmas then, gave away the address of his associates John Paul, Henry and Cyril. Police seized seven grams of cocaine, 300 grams of ganja, Rs 50,000 cash, laptop and cell phones from their possession. 
 
 John Paul and Henry confessed that in addition to peddling drugs, they also trafficked Nigerian women to customers in Kushaiguda and Neredmet areas. “The Indian visas of Cosmas, John Paul and Henry had expired years ago . John Paul was arrested twice by Mapusa police of Goa in 2016 for illegal stay and drug peddling. Despite knowing about all this, Cyril knowingly provided him shelter at his rented flat in Yapral,” the commissioner said.
 
