GAYA: Concerned over the operations of sand mafia and the resultant violence in  , Gaya DM   on Thursday ordered a crackdown against those engaged in sand mining in Falgu, Morhar and other seasonal rivers of the district.

 At least five persons, including ASI Devi Singh, were injured in clashes between the villagers and sand contractors in Tekari on Tuesday. 
 
 Illegal and indiscriminate sand mining, besides having adverse ecological impact and revenue loss, was also causing heavy damage to the national and state highways as, the sand miners transported the sand through heavily overloaded tractors and trucks, carrying almost double the prescribed load. On several occasions, villagers of Belaganj and other areas protested against road damage caused by overloaded trucks carrying sand from Falgu and other rivers.
 
 According to DM, there were 43 notified points in the district where sand lifting was officially permitted and contract for sand mining awarded through tender. The DM said there were clear cut guidelines stipulating regulations under which sand mining was to be done. These guidelines include restricted/limited use of machines for sand excavation, permissible depth up to which mining activities can be done, safety measures like minimum distance from road and railway bridge pillars etc.
 
 The DM admitted that he has received complaints about the violation of contract provisions, including those in respect of use of machines and distance from bridge pillars. Complaints of illegal mining at points that have not been allotted to sand contractors, have also been received.
 
 The DM said a special task force has been constituted to inspect all the points in different rivers where sand mining activity was done. The task force has been specifically directed to ensure due observance of the mining protocol, regulate the use of machines and maintenance of manual mining schedule. Illegal mining will completely be stopped. Asked about allegations that block, police and mining department officials were hand in gloves with the sand contractors, the DM said and laxity on the part of officials will not be tolerated.
 
 Meanwhile, RTI activist   has reiterated the demand for complete ban on sand mining in the Falgu between   and Bitho village.
 
