PATNA: The State government has rejected the request of RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s son and leader of opposition in assembly   to allow him stay in his 5, Deshratna   bungalow, which has recently been allotted to deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi (SuMo). 

 State building construction minister Maheshwar Hazari said on Friday that new bungalows have been allotted to   and SuMo as per the government norms and no changes would be made in that regard. 
 
 “The 5, Deshrtana Marg bungalow has been earmarked as the official bungalow for the deputy CM and the one at 1, Polo Road has been for leader of opposition in legislative assembly. The bungalows have been allotted to Tejashwi and Sushil Modi accordingly,” Hazari said. 
 
 Earlier, the state government issued notification on August 29 for allotment of government bungalows to 15 ministers in the recently formed NDA government. Sources in building construction department said former ministers are to vacate the bungalows earlier allotted to them within one month.
 
 Sources said Tejashwi wrote a letter to the BCD minister and chief minister’s secretariat on August 31 and cited the example of SuMo, who retained 1, Polo Road bungalow in 2013 despite not being the deputy CM after Nitish had ended his 17-year-old alliance with the BJP. SuMo was first allotted the Polo Road bungalow in 2005 after the formation of Nitish government. 
 
 With the state government refusing to oblige him, Tejashwi has also showed reluctance to shift to the new bungalow allotted to him. Sources said he has decided to live with his parents at 10, Circular Road bungalow, which was allotted to his mother and former CM Rabri Devi in 2005.
 
 “Tejashwi has decided to stay with his parents at 10, Circular Road bungalow rather than shifting to 1, Polo Road bungalow, where SuMo stayed for 12 years,” an RJD insider said. 
 
 JD(U), on the other hand, was quick to take a dig at the former deputy CM. “Tejashwi himself was BCD minister and he must know the norms. Nonetheless, as he is single at present, it will be better for him to stay with his parents to lead a disciplined life,” JD(U) spokesperson   said. 
 
 Meanwhile, former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi came in support of Tejashwi and said he should be allowed to stay in 5, Deshratna Marg bungalow.
 
