There are hardly any body parts left in the world of contouring! According to make-up professional Meghna Butani, the latest trend is to sculpt your legs with make-up. She says, “This trend isn’t just about applying a highlighter or a bronzer on your thighs or legs to make them look sexy. It’s a full on, detailed layer of make-up done to attain super gorgeous limbs.”

 Similar to face contouring, Instagrammers are using self-tanners, bronzers and highlighters to chisel their legs. The result? The contouring creates the impression of thinner legs, stronger calves and longer shins. 
 
 
 
 Just like any other contouring technique, it’s best to work with cream for best results. You first chart down and then start mapping which areas you would like to contour on your leg. The trick is to create an illusion which will hide excess flab and highlight only the leanest portions of your leg. 
 
 While the process may sound complicated, according to beautician Nishi Mulchandani, the trend just requires one to possess artistic skills. She says, “You need to have the right tools to contour your leg — brushes, finishing powders and setting sprays. If you haven’t done contouring before, you can always look up beginner’s videos that are available on the internet to help you nail the look.”
 
 
 
 For those who aren’t too confident about contouring their legs, with the help of make-up, they can try out a cosmetic procedure as well. Cosmeto-dermatologist Dr Swati Srivastava says, “Women can achieve sleeker legs with the help of calf or   by injecting botox. It takes about 15 days to a month for the results to start showing.”
 
 
 
 Leg contouring joins a long list of strange   that have been taking social media by storm. Here are a few others. 
 > Henna contouring: This technique involves applying highlighter and bronzer to the face in the form of henna tattoo-like designs. 
 >  : Similar to classic contouring, this one lasts for a week and the make-up is done with the help of only a self-tanner. 
 > Foot contouring: This trend involves highlighting your feet for a smoother, firmer look. 
 > Clown contouring: Introduced by a   vlogger, this is an exaggerated method of applying a highligher, shadow and blush, which when unblended, makes one look 
 like a clown! 
 > Nontouring: This is halfway between contouring and   and involves applying subtle make-up. You just need a primer, a tinted moisturiser and a highlighter to attain the look. 
 
 
