Nagpur: With the mercury levels soaring, trekking would not be anyone’s first choice for an adventure. However, the members of Nagpur for Kids (NFK) Club and their parents not only braved the heat but also trekked Sinduragiri hill at   on Sunday morning.

 The tour began at 6.30am from The Times of India office, Times Square on WHC Road. The clear sky and sunny morning made the Sinduragiri hill look majestic and lifted the children’s spirit. 
 
 As soon as the kids finished the breakfast, Amol Khante, head of CAC All Rounder Adventure Village and the chief coordinator of the tour, gathered the kids and parents for a quick warm-up session.
 
 Stressing outdoor adventure sports, Khante said, “It is very important to go out and be in the company of nature. It helps in the overall development.” A signboard outside the makeshift kitchen at the camp summed up the importance of such trips. It read ‘No Wi-Fi here, Talk to each other’.
 
 Khante also narrated the historical importance of the region. “The Gadh temple atop the hill was built by the Bhonsle king. The great Sanskrit poet Kalidas wrote the famous poem Meghdoot here.”
 
 The kids and parents reached the foot of the hill after an almost 3km walk along the Khindsi backwater through the cherry farms. 
 
 Dhairya Mirani, an NFK Club member, said, “It was a steep terrain filled with stones. The heat and the sun made it harder to climb.” Still, Dhairya and his father Ajay completed the trek.
 
 “This was my second trek yet it was challenging,” said Swayam Sontakke, another NFK Club member. 
 
 After a short break atop the hill, the parents and the kids started a kilometre long march to the Gadh temple. The kids also visited the Kapurbawdi temple — built in stone during the 5th century AD — while getting down. The kids and parents were guided by hilleering expert Sunny Thakur.
 
 Despite the rigorous trek, the kids were full of energy and could not wait to get their hands on adventure rides at the camp. Post-lunch, parents and kids enthusiastically tried different rides like the climbing wall, swings, grapevine and rope bridge.
 
 
