NEW DELHI: It has been quite the ride for young   in the fifth edition of the  . After just four games, Affan is already the highest scorer in the tournament with seven goals. And because of his telling effect,   have remained unbeaten in four straight games with one draw and three wins, and firmly placed at the top of the pile.
 
 Affan was always going to be one of Dabang Mumbai's key elements heading into the tournament, and four games down, it is safe to assume that he has lived up to that moniker. On Monday, his double strike in the 29th and 30th minutes - one field goal and another off a penalty corner - put Mumbai 3-0 ahead at half time, just about enough to see off Delhi Waveriders' spirited fightback.
  
 In an exclusive chat with TOI Sports, the 22-year-old spoke on a range of topics, including his team's expectations, personal goals and the disappointment of missing out on Rio Olympics.
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 This season, we're in a much better space - mentally and technically. In 2015, we finished sixth and the following year we came close to qualifying for the playoffs. This year I believe will be Dabang Mumbai's best across all seasons of the Hockey India League. We've brought about five changes in the squad which gives this side a better balance, and the presence of quality international players is a great addition to the team. Also, I reckon our coach Mr. Jay Stacy has been a big factor in terms of motivation. The first two games have been good. Scoring a late goal in both matches proves that we are a fighting bunch and we aim on carrying it forward.
  
 
 
  
 Not really, because we've played with   earlier too. The experience of playing under him has been pleasant. I think when you have someone like Fuchs alongside you - someone who is an Olympic medallist - it makes a difference to our approach and confidence. It's unfortunate that Matthew Swann is out injured but I think we have the firepower to make up for his absence.
  
 
 
  
 Personally for me, I think I have grown as a player in the last one year. I'll use that to try and see my team to   glory and score as many goals as possible. The input from our coach and senior players has been very informative and I'll try making the most of it.
  
 
 
  
 It was, but now when I think of it, perhaps I wasn't ready or not good enough. The way we played at the Olympics, I would have loved to be there - in the center of action, with the likes of Sardar Singh, PR Sreejesh, VR Raghunath and Rupinder [Pal] Singh. But that's okay, because had I not been snubbed, I wouldn't have been the player today that I am. So yes, I may have missed out on the Rio Olympics, but playing the 2020 Games in Tokyo is definitely something that is on my mind.
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 When two people work well as a pair, the results are bound to be good. And I think that is the case with Nikkin and me. The technical coordination is good between the two of us - the passing, the sprinting - it all falls in place. Since we're both forwards, there is healthy discussion with just one aim, to win matches for our country. Even during the game against Pakistan in the final of the Asian Champions Trophy and then against Australia, we were the goal-scorers and that is because the chemistry is fluent, which reflects in our game when playing together. And I'm expecting similar results for Dabang Mumbai.
  
 
 
  
 Yes, you can say that. As a player, staging a comeback and proving that you belong at that level can be trickier than you think. There was pressure and doubt but I think I was able to channel these into positive results. I went back to Roelant Oltmans and trained with him, and he really helped improve my game. Today I am much more confident than I was about six months back. My game inside the box has improved and I back myself to attack more.
 
 
 
  
 Any match against Pakistan is big, let alone the final of the Asian Champions Trophy. It was the night of Diwali so that didn't help either. We just wanted to return home champions. We were up 1-0 with plenty of chances coming our way. I deflected Ramandeep's cross into the board and that gave us a safety goal. I would say that is the most cherished goal of my life. But then Pakistan equalised and the pressure reached a mercurial level. Plenty of 'what ifs' came to mind but thankfully we held our nerves and it all worked out well in the end with Nikkin's goal.
  
 Similarly with the Test series, Australia is the No. 1-ranked side in the world and beating them at any level - friendly or international - is considered big. We were coming off the high of a silver finish at the Four-Nations tournament so the confidence was high. Those two goals inside a minute turned the course of the game. That was quite big for me I would say.
  
 
 
  
 The most important reason is the lack of good coaches. When I was growing up, what made me addicted to the game despite my family legacy is the fact that I had coaches to look up to. In contrast, today there aren't many such figures which further leads to limited exposure. Though the MP hockey academy is one such place that still continues to shape hockey players; people of various age-group practice hockey there.
  
 And the reason is their passion. Bhopal has always been known for its own brand of hockey. People from this city specialise in one-on-one tackling, but because of the standard of coaches the players aren't going beyond the city.
 
