THANE: With elections round the corner, the   usually gets covered with various hoardings and political banners. The politicians in the city ensure that hoardings wishing the public are put up across their wards and constituencies on festivals and other special occasions.

 However, this year, despite the elections and the festival of   there are hardly any hoardings seen in the city. It looks like these politicians have disappeared.
 
 While the   released several instructions to curb the menace of illegal banners and hoardings in the past, thousands of such ads would crop up in the city especially during festivals and also during polls. 
 
 Politicians across the city take the opportunity to wish everyone on the festive occasions and put up hoardings and banners to make their presence felt. 
 
 The roads heading towards politically affiliated mandals get decorated with photos of the local MLAs, MPs, party workers, office bearers wishing the denizens.
 
 However, the tight noose on these activities by the Election Code of Conduct (ECC) and police commissioner seems to have eliminated this trend altogether.
 
 Once the election Code of Conduct came into effect, a few political parties took off the banners while many others who failed to pul down the hoardings were penalized by the election officials for breaching the code of conduct.
 
 The order sent out by police commissioner Param Bir Singh to all political party volunteers regarding the formalities to be fulfilled while putting up their banners, posters, flags and other means of publicity has further shaken them in their boots.
 
 “The hoardings, banners, flags and other such advertising mediums should not obstruct any street lighting or public amenity. Additionally, to put them up, the party will need a written permission of the owner of the building or structure where it will be displayed followed by an NOC by the police,” said Param Bir Singh, the   police commissioner.
 
 Citizen activists opine that while the code of conduct had put on brakes on the defacement of the city, it should be ensured that they don’t put them up after the poll results on February 23. 
 
 “The political parties are afraid of action from the ECC which may affect their coming to power and are taking every precaution they can. However, once the results are out it is highly probable thatthe winning and losing parties will break laws by putting up hoarding and taking rallies to thank their supporters. Hopefully, they will be role models for citizens by not breaking the law this time. Citizens should look out for those violations and keep them in mind for the next elections,” said Dr Mahesh Bedekar, a citizen activist.
 
 
