PUNE: A sessions court here has ruled that an aggrieved woman in a case filed under the Domestic Violence (DV) Act cannot invoke the territorial jurisdiction of a court merely on the basis of the residence where she starts living deliberately for the purpose of filing the case. 

 On July 7, additional sessions judge Mohammad Nasir M   set aside a March 16 order by a magisterial court in   that rejected a Jaipur-based medical practitioner and his mother’s objection to the magistrate’s jurisdiction to entertain an application by his wife for reliefs under the DV Act. 
 
 The woman, a professor with a dental college in Udaipur at the time of filing of the case, had claimed her son’s hostel in Khadki as her temporary residence.
 
 Her husband and mother-in-law had argued that the so-called temporary residence cannot give jurisdiction to the magistrate to take cognisance of her plea as none of the alleged incidents of domestic violence took place in Khadki nor did she live there before filing the case. The family, in fact, never lived in Khadki, they argued. The magistrate then held that the respondents (husband & mother-in-law) cannot insist on deciding the issue of jurisdiction beforehand thus, prompting the respondents to move a criminal appeal in the sessions court.
 
 Apart from the place where the domestic violence is alleged to have taken place, Section 27 of the DV Act enables an aggrieved woman to file a case on the basis of her temporary residence where she is forced to reside or take up a job and is able to secure services of the protection officer and police to ensure that no more domestic violence is perpetuated against her. 
 
 Judge Saleem, while setting aside the impugned (under challenge) order and remanding the matter back to the Khadki magistrate for fresh consideration, relied on a 2010 judgment by the Delhi high court which held that the temporary residence must not be a fleeing residence where a woman comes only for the purpose of contesting the case and otherwise does not reside there. 
 
 The HC then held that a temporary residence must be such where an aggrieved person is compelled to take shelter or to take job in view of domestic violence perpetuated on her. It must be a place where she is compelled to reside with one of her relative or friend other than her matrimonial home. 
 
