BENGALURU: The state government's ambitious  , that aims to provide  , is running into problems. Establishing 198 canteens in all wards given the acute space crunch has become a  , the implementing agency, with residents opposing construction in most places.

 Jayanagar 9th Block East residents' welfare association has objected to the construction of   in their locality. STOI visited the spot on Saturday and it's learnt that BBMP tried to cut trees for the canteen at the BMTC pump house near East End Road. Civic authorities razed a portion of the compound wall. Residents fear the area may lose its green cover.
 
 “The pump house is filled with trees more than 30 years old and home to several rare birds which are not seen in urban areas. The canteen will be an obstacle to privacy , security, safety and normal residential life. Parking of vehicles on East End A Main Road will create inconvenience to residents and normal traffic movement,“ says Krishna Reddy , president, RWA in a letter written to Jayanagar MLA BN Vijayakumar. The residents have requested him to ensure the canteen is not built there.
 
 Srinivas Yellandur, a resident and member of the RWA, said the mini forest in the locality would be lost if the canteen comes up. “It's a purely residential area. Suddenly , BBMP has knocked down the compound wall of the BMTC pump house. If BBMP constructs the canteen here, the green cover is under threat,“ said Srinivas.
 
 Currently , the pump has quarters and vacant area beside it filled with trees. “I was shocked when BBMP officers recently came and inspected the area. I alerted BMTC officials immediately . But the compound wall has been demolished and we have no safety,“ said Geetha SP, who lives in the BMTC quarters.
 
 “We have inspected the space. BBMP has written to us seeking the land. The land has not been handed over yet.Yes, there are many trees there. A meeting will be held to discuss whether we can transfer the land,“ said a BMTC officer.
 
 
 
 
 It's official. If there are trees in places where Indira canteens are coming up, the green cover will eventually disappear. Though Manoj Rajan, special commissioner, BBMP in-charge, Indira Canteen project told TOI that no trees would be cut for the project, the ground reality is quite different.
 
 BBMP's officials admit many trees have to be cut for the project. When contacted, Appu Rao, DCF, forest wing, BBMP, said he was aware of trees being cut. “It's BBMP's project. Cutting trees becomes inevitable for the pro ject. in South Bengaluru, near Channammanakere Acchukattu, Sarakki and other places, we have cut trees and in branches in some places.It's the same case in East and North Bengaluru,“ he said.
 
 Asked whether this issue was discussed with the forest wing in the initial meetings of Indira Canteen implementation, the officer said, “No.“
 
 He refused to comment on the total number of trees that would be axed for the project.
 
 
 
 
 In Sarakki ward, JP Nagar, BBMP has chosen a BDA civic amenity site to construct an Indira Canteen. Though residents have no issues with the project, BBMP has already cut huge branches of two trees.The plot is right under a 66kV high tension wire and next to a power transmission tower.When TOI brought this to the notice of KPTCL officials, they said apart from a park or a road, nothing can come under such high tension wires.“The BBMP has to take a safety clearance certificate to build anything under a high tension wire. Our officers will inspect the place,“ said a senior KPTCL officer.
 
