JAIPUR: A total of 1,050 non-functional   machines have made it more challenging for the   to  . Last week, the   issued directions to the officials to conduct physical verification of all 1,050   in the state.

 Two days ago, PCPNDT cell officials had conducted a decoy operation and nabbed owner of a private diagnostic centre for allegedly trying to sell his non-functional sonography machines without informing the health authorities. 
 
 “Majority of the non-functional machines do not have active trackers. It was only in 2013 when active trackers were made compulsory for functional sonography machines for their monitoring. But, the sonography machines which were non-functional before 2013 do not have active trackers. So, it is necessary to know the status of such machines. In this regard, a campaign has been launched to conduct physical verification of the non-functional machines,” PCPNDT incharge   said.
 
 In the state, 2,502 machines are registered under PCPNDT Act. But, only 1,452 machines are functional, while the rest 1,050 are non-functional. Now, the PCPNDT officials will conduct physical verification to ensure that these machines are not being misused for sex selection activities.
 
 “They are non-functional for various reasons. It could be because of court cases or because there is no registered sonologist or any other registered doctor who is eligible for conducting sonography,” Singh said.
 
 Rajasthan’s child sex ratio has gone down by 21 points from 909 to 888. Now, the health department has stepped up efforts to improve it. In the current financial year, the PCPNDT cell has conducted 28 decoy operations, which is highest in a year. The PCPNDT cell has conducted 57 decoy operations so far since the day the PCPNDT Act was implemented. The 28 decoy operations conducted so far have created fear among those involved in sex selection activities. 
 
 Besides, 10 decoy operations this year were conducted in other states including Gujarat, Haryana and UP.
 
 
