Patna: The advisory council of B D College, at its meeting held here on Saturday, decided to open a help desk for online admission process at the college. The college is a constituent unit of Magadh University.

 College principal Sanjoy Kumar said the help desk would help those students who are unable to fill up their admission forms online for Intermediate and Degree courses. The college has already started online admission process for both regular and vocational courses from the current academic year, he said, adding the college has already posted details about online admission process on the college website. 
 
 Kumar said the college has so far received an overwhelming response online for Intermediate and Degree courses. This would maintain transparency in the admission process, he said.
 
 MCA course: B D College has got approval from the Magadh University Syndicate and Senate to start MCA course from the current academic session. The All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) has already given its nod to the college for MCA course, Kumar said, adding the college is already running MBA, BBM, BCA and other vocational courses to cater to the needs of students.
 
 Saloni joins as English HoD: Dr Saloni Prasad, professor of English, has joined as the new postgraduate head of the English department at College of Commerce, Arts and Science.
 
 Biometric attendance: R K D College, a constituent unit of Magadh University, has introduced biometric attendance system for its teaching and non-teaching staff. The college administration strictly followed the guidelines of Raj Bhavan and the university and introduced this system from July 5, said college principal P K Verma.
 
 According to him, the college has also issued directives to students that 75% attendance is compulsory in the classrooms failing which they would not be allowed to fill up their university examination forms.
 
 Journalism course: College of Commerce, Arts and Science will accept admission forms for PG Diploma in Journalism till July 15. The college has also extended the last date for accepting admission forms for the one-year certificate course in journalism till July 15, said its coordinator Tariq Fatmi.
 
  transfer committee: Magadh University has not constituted a transfer committee for the last one year. As a result, the fate of about 30 teachers of different constituent colleges of the university is still hanging in the balance. These teachers had applied for transfer from one college to another under the university provision. Since the university has not constituted a transfer committee, the transfer process of college teachers could not be initiated, an MU official said.
 
 
