Days after an anonymous post by a former employee of The Viral Fever (TVF) accusing its CEO and founder -   - of allegedly molesting her has gone viral, the incident has snowballed into a huge controversy. More women have come out on social media, talking about how they were also allegedly sexually harassed by him. While TVF and some of its women employees have issued a strong statement denying the incident, we spoke to stand-up comedians…

 I know   personally and when the anonymous posts started doing the rounds, I initially thought someone was framing him. But later, I spoke to a few more friends who said they have gone through the same situation. If proven guilty, he could go to jail for this. 
 
 
 It’s shocking that so many women are coming out with their stories of sexual harassment by Arunabh, but the unfortunate truth is that a majority of women face similar problems at their workplace on a day to day basis. I hope these women get justice in a court of law. I was also extremely disappointed by the way TVF's official statement was worded. Baseless or not, 'We will leave no stone unturned to find the author of the article and bring them to severe justice for making such false allegations' is NOT the right way to respond to a sexual harassment allegation.
 
 
 There is a major difference between a joke, flirting and sexual harassment. When I first read the article by the anonymous user, I thought it was a planted story by some TVF haters. But when many girls came out on social media and started sharing their story, I thought TVF should definitely investigate the matter. Hopefully, there will be more clarity on this soon.
 
 
 Sexual harassment is wrong. Period. Now that there are so many women coming forward and pointing fingers at Arunabh Kumar, it definitely puts him in a situation where he has to either admit and face the consequences or challenge the claims with valid proof. In both cases, we have once again been reminded of the casualness of such a disgusting act and the regularity of how often it happens and how it has penetrated so many layers of the society. To describe how I feel about sexual harassment is one word – Unacceptable. There does seem to be a genuine confusion about what is actually considered sexist when it comes to comedy because each and every comic has used a certain ‘stereotype’ during their career not with the intention to offend but to casually yet firmly bring forward a kind of prejudice/discrimination and get people comfortable with the uncomfortable.
 
 
 I would recommend you to speak to the men. Every time something like this happens, the onus always falls on women — 'tum bolo, tum karo’. We need to have this conversation with the men in the community.
 
 
 I'm choosing to stay out of this one till I have all the facts at hand. I mean, I am disturbed by the allegations and I hope due process and investigations will take place or will be followed.
 
 
 I personally know of a friend who in a job interview was asked inappropriate questions. She spoke about it with me and asked if I could help her out. I got in touch with the company's head HR and the CEO's daughter too and reported about it. But then, my friend backed out. So, I think it is a woman's call and she needs to stand up for it and report about it if she has been wronged.
 
 
 I request all the complainants to come forward without any fear. I hope that TVF takes the strictest action against him if the charges are proved by the authorities.
 
 — 
 
 
 
 I don’t know Arunabh personally, so I am just following the story like the rest of you all. It’s disturbing, and everyone who came out with their stories is very brave to do so and I hope they get justice quickly. There is serious allegations against an individual and it should be addressed properly without jumping to conclusions about things like the industry, his company etc.
 
 
 
