NAGPUR: A correct posture, exercise and a balanced diet are not only important for good health but also to ensure longevity of   and joints, said orthopaedic surgeon at Alexis Multispecialty Hospital  .

 He was delivering a lecture organized by   at Vidarbha Sahitya Sammelan, Rani Jhansi Square, on Saturday.
 
 Sonegaonkar gave important tips on maintaining bone and joint health as well as causes of different ailments. Foundation’s president Rahul Dhobe, vice-president Shantanu Jog and secretary Vijay Pataip were also present on the occasion.
 
 Common problems like knee, elbow and back pains occur as a result of old age which affect a significant number of people. According to Sonegaonkar, distress as a result of these ailments can be made bearable if not prevented. Lack of calcium in the body is the main cause for bone-related problems, he said.
 
 “Most people over the age of 60 complain of knee aches.   is the leading cause. It is a degenerative joint disease which comes off age and is a natural process. However, rheumatoid arthritis can cause knee aches early on in life,” Sonegaonkar said.
 
 “People affected with knee-joint pain must not lift heavy weights or do activities which may exert pressure on the knees,” he advised. He also recommended exercising quadriceps (muscles in thighs) as it helps in dealing with pain.
 
 Similarly, spondylosis is a degenerative condition of the spine also attributed to age. As is slip-disc, a condition where a jelly-like layer that separates the vertebral disc from nerves in the spine dries up which may cause pain in different parts of the body when the disc presses on a particular nerve, he explained.
 
 “Posture is very important in preventing these ailments. While sitting in front of a computer, one must be sure to keep the back straight with proper support, knees and elbows at a 90 degree angle and screen at eye-level,” the orthopaedic surgeon said.
 
 “Nutrition is crucial. Indian diet is the most balanced as it consists of carbohydrates, proteins, minerals and fat in adequate amounts,” he said.
 
 He also cautioned against the use of alcohol and tobacco products as they tend to accelerate the degeneration process.
 
 
