VARANASI: Shyamdeo Roy Chaudhuri ‘Dada’, the seven-time MLA of Bharatiya Janata Party from   seat, is set to remain away from election campaign for the party in UP 2017 polls. 

 “How one can expect from me to campaign from door-to-door in support of a candidate who has been fielded from this seat by humiliating me without and any reason,” Roy Chaudhury told to TOI after the departure of BJP state president Keshav Prasad Maurya from his residence on Friday. Roy Chaudhury was denied ticket this time and was replaced by Neel Kanth Tiwari. He had already expressed his anguish and surprise over party’s decision. His supporters are also upset with the replacement of a winning candidate. 
 
 Maurya along with Kashi Kshetra president Laxman Acharya went to the house of Roy Chaudhury in Badadeo locality to conciliate him, and held a closed door meeting. Before going to his house, Maurya told reporters that the party will pacify him keeping his honour intact. 
 
 “Humko kya mana lenge, hum kya koi bachche hain ki balloon ya Cadbury chocolate dekar mana lenge,” (How they conciliate me. Am I a child to be pacified with a balloon or a chocolate), he wondered, adding that the party workers present at his house maintained discipline and welcomed Maurya. “I came to know that party workers raised protest at the party office. But, maintaining discipline and tradition of party no slogan was raised here,” he said. 
 
 “Only time will tell what happens in future,” he said, adding that his approach is positive, and he can’t indulge in slogan shouting to express his ire. “I would not behave like those who conspired against me for the denial of ticket,” he said. 
 
 When asked if he will play any role in election campaign, he said, “There is no question of cooperation or campaigning in support of the party candidate. Without any ground I was humiliated by denying ticket.” He, however, added that he would not ask any one not to vote BJP. 
 
 According to political observers, the absence or silence of Roy Chaudhury in electioneering will go against the BJP in polling. 
 
