CHANDIGARH: The Chandigarh Parents’ Association has complained to the   secretary against a private school in Sector 33, alleging that it illegaly shifted   (economically weak section) students to the general category and charged them fee without any subsidy.

 The association, in its letter, has requested the secretary to forward the matter to the estate office for initiating proceedings for resumption of the plot allotted to the school. It has also sought withdrawal of recognition given to the school under Article 240 of the Punjab Education Code and invitation of applications from other educational societies and NGOs for running the school in partnership with its parents’ association. 
 
 The same school had recently requested the UT education department to allow it charge regular fee from 22 EWS students whose parents had crowssed the Rs 1.5-lakh annual income ceiling for EWS families.
 
 However, contesting the claim of the school, one of the parents from the EWS category later filed a complaint, stating that they were being forced to pay full school fees, even as the child was admitted under EWS category. The complaint had come three months after the school had made the request to the department. 
 
 At that time, UT authorities had told TOI that they had sought clarification on the issue from the Union ministry of human resource development. 
 
 The association has mentioned this in the complaint too. The association said the school shifted students “in an illegal manner and in blatant violation of provisions of the  , and it violated land allotment rules too”. 
 
 The association said the school had committed an illegality, “which cannot be expected from an educational institution”. “Some of the affected parents have written to the district education officer, informing that they did not request for the transfer of their children from EWS category to general category. Surprisingly, no action has been initiated by the DEO against the school to date,” parents said.
 
