NEW DELHI: More than four tonnes of   worth over Rs 1,250 crore was sold within 48 hours of the November 8 announcement that two highvalue denominations would be demonetised, according to a survey conducted by the Directorate General of Central Excise Intelligence (DGCEI). 

 Two tonnes were sold on November 8, probably the highest retail sale on any given day, officials claimed, which raises suspicions of huge   activities, allegedly to convert the banned notes into gold. 
 
 A leading Delhi-based jeweller sold 45kg of gold to 700 people on November 8, according to his accounts. A day before, the jeweller had sold just 820g. Lalita   in Chennai sold 200kg of gold jewellery on November 8. A day before, it had sold less than 40kg, according to the survey by central excise officials. Jaipur’s Laawat Jewellers had reported 100g of gold stock on November 7, but its sales exceeded 30kg on November 8. The jeweller is under investigation. 
 
 The government has already detected central excise duty evasion to the tune of Rs 20 crore based on the sales admitted by over 400 jewellers and bullion traders surveyed across the country since  . The evaded duty is likely to touch Rs 100 crore once the scrutiny is completed, officials said. 
 
 The DGCEI survey was initiated after reports of money laundering started pouring in from different parts of the country soon after the demonetisation of the old Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 notes. The agency has since served more than 300 notices on jewellers for suspected tax evasion and money laundering. 
 
 Last week, DGCEI raided India’s largest gold jewellery chain, the Thrissur-based Joyalukkas, and found that the company had sold more than 5.7 tonnes of gold jewellery, worth over Rs 1,500 crore, between April and November. Though most of the sales detected are accounted for and reflected in its account books, the company is facing charges of tax evasion for not paying the mandatory 1% central excise duty applicable since April 1, 2016, on sales of jewellery. It was issued a notice for evading central ex-cise duty to the tune of Rs 16 crore, a senior DGCEI official confirmed. The company, which has a presence in almost all the major Indian cities, besides Dubai and Abu Dhabi in the UAE, has paid Rs 10 crore in duty since the DGCEI searches. 
 
 The DGCEI also conducted a survey on the Delhi-based PP Jewellers, and asked the company to pay Rs 4.5 crore in central excise duty. The jeweller, DGCEI officials claimed, had sales worth Rs 450 crore between April and November and a tax liability of Rs 4.5 crore. PP Jewellers, sources said, has paid Rs 2 crore after the DGCEI notice. 
 
 These unusual sales are what the top jewellers have admitted in their books and do not include the large-scale illicit sale and smuggling of gold bricks. For instance, the income tax department had, in a single raid in Chennai last month, seized 170 kg of gold.
 
