PUNE: Yogesh Mehta, who bought a commercial   in the last week of June, is still waiting to   his property with the Inspectorate General of Registration and Stamp department as there is no clarity on   for property registrations. 

 At the moment, citizens pay 6% stamp registration fee, of which 5% is stamp duty fee and 1% is LBT fee. “I would rather hold off registration than pay extra as LBT,” said Mehta.
 
 Like Mehta, Bibwewadi resident Pravin Bafana is also holding off on registering his property. “After the GST implementation, we are hoping that the state government issues the necessary circular to stop LBT collection,” said Bafana.
 
  officials told TOI that stamp registration comes under stamp act, and unless the state government brings out a notification, the status quo will continue. “The stamp and registration act is different. On LBT collection, the state finance department must issue a circular,” a senior official said. 
 
 When TOI contacted some senior finance department officials, they said they would look into the matter. Incidentally Maharashtra is the only state with Local Body Tax, which replaced Octroi two years ago. “Now LBT too should go. Only stamp duty should be collected as in other states,” says Mehta.
 
 Tushar Kanbur, a lawyer, said two of his friends too are waiting before registering their properties. “When GST was introduced, how can the state collect LBT?” he said. “The finance department should have immediately issued the necessary clarification,” he added.
 
 “There are people who made earnest agreements on stamp papers so that they have the property, but will register only after the state government addresses the issue,” he said. He took the example of a gentleman in the Hadapsar Industrial Estate, who booked a property for a little more than Rs1 crore and is holding off on registration for the same reason. 
 
 Mehta, meanwhile, says he would like to know if the finance minister was aware that 1% LBT was collected in lieu of Octroi. “With GST, all other taxes should go,” he repeated.
 
