In a recent  , it was found that India dropped down two spots on the World Happiness Index. While efforts are being made all over the country to regain the previous position, the state of   is leading by example with the constitution of a   for the mental well-being of its denizens. By nature, Indoreans are generally high on humour and compassion, so while the ministry works towards increasing the happiness quotient of the state, millennials have come forward with ideas on what can increase Indore’s overall happiness.

 
 
 
 It seemed like a passage right out of a fantasy novel or fairytale, when the Department of Happiness or Anand Sansthan was announced mid 2016. However, with its unique initiatives and well defined objectives, the department has managed to turn sceptics into believers. Neeraj Vashishta, director of the newly constituted department, defined their upcoming goals, “The main objective of the department is to ensure happiness in the lives of common people beyond the basic necessities. We are trying to adapt clues from the Himalayan kingdom of  . Through various measurement techniques, we will be analysing the significance of their model in the context of our state. Even though their sociological structure and population is different from out state, we can always create a knowledge bank of various activities and plans. A delegation of senior officials will be visiting the happy country in a few weeks to understand the relevance of their prevalent happiness model in our country.” Neeraj also elaborated other objectives of the department, which include coordinating with various departments to plan and implement fun activities in mainstream festivals, assessing the state of mind of citizens at fixed intervals on pre-determined parameters, preparing and publishing a survey report on the state of joy and more. Looks like the state is in for joyous days.
 
 
  
 
 
 Just a few weeks ago, Dalai Lama, the Tibetan Spiritual leader, visited Bhopal and spoke about how people can incorporate happiness in their daily lives. His holiness said, “The government should try to sow the seeds of happiness in school and college children. Modern education is based on a materialistic way of life. It is important to question now, whether it is adequate to create happiness in the society.”
 When asked about how he tries to stay happy, he smiled and said, “I don’t make an effort to be happy. My happiness is not bound by specific situations and objects. It comes from within. Once, I was asked how I manage to stay fit at this age, the answer to that will be the same. I do not let anger cloud my perception. I learnt this from my mother. She never had the slightest anger on her face. And trust me, all this is common sense.”
  
 
 
 Entrepreneur Abhineet Agrawal, 26, is of the opinion that, “The happiness quotient can be increased by reducing the communication gap between the government and the people. The MPs and MLAs should interact with people and discuss issues and ideas. This will make people feel valued and useful to society. People will feel more responsible and happily contribute to the state's progress." 
 
 Architect Minshul Jain, 22, feels that if people associated with NGOs worked more sincerely, the happiness quotient of the city can be substantially increased. And Mrityunjay Sharma, a 23-year-old IT engineer, says that it all depends on charity. “If the government motivates people to do more charity, then capable people would come forward. This way we will be making people who are in need happy and will also be happy ourselves," says Mrityunjay. Aishwarya Sharma, a 22-year-old copywriter seconds this. She says, “Be there for the needy and not for the greedy. Helping the less privileged and making sure that people around us are always happy can definitely increase the happiness quotient of any city.”
 
 Aman Joshi, a 26-year-old drum circle facilitator and experiential trip organiser applauds the initiative. He says, “Encouragement and support for more arts and cultural events, alternative and collaborative learning spaces where education is not limited to scoring marks but focussed on practical life learnings and more emphasis on experiential tourism are things that can be done towards this.”
 
 
 
 
 
 1. DAVV's 10th version of SAUFEST saw students from SAARC member countries come down to the city and putting up a great show.
 
 2. The Global Investors Summit was organised by the state government in October 2016.
 
 3. Indore was declared Open Defecation Free in January 2017
 
 4. The city played host to a match of T20 World Cup between India and New Zealand in October 2016. Holkar Stadium will also be hosting IPL matches in April.
 
 5. With feasibility reports, necessary details and routes, the proposal for Indore Metro has been sent to the central government for budget allocation. Once approved, Indore will be one of the very few cities with both, BRTS and Metro trains.
  
 6. Indore got its own passport office in February 2017.
 
 7. A lot of bollywood movies are being shot in Maheshwar of late.
 
 Pics: Aayush Joshi
 Inputs by: Saptaparna Biswas
 
 
