NEW DELHI: Though its immediate post-Jayalalithaa objective is to prop up the   government, BJP sees a chance to spread wings in   after the passing of Amma and the decline of DMK patriarch M  .

 It will find AIADMK's support handy in countering the Congress-Trinamool combine in Parliament and in forums like the GST council, but shorn of its mass leader, AIADMK is in a state of flux. On the other hand, the transition in DMK is under way with Karunanidhi's health limiting his influence.
 
 A change in Tamil Nadu's political canvas ­ where power has been held alternately by AIADMK and DMK for years, reducing Congress to a bit player, and disallowing BJP to take off ­ is the best juncture for BJP to obtain an option beyond its one Lok Sabha seat in 2014, a party member said.
 
 PM Modi, however, is seen to have a connect in the state and the perception that he shared a good equation with   could help build on popular sentiment, feel party managers. Even as the party wants to move slowly on usurping the leaderless AIADMK's voter base, the immediate target is to look for some seats for the 2019 Lok Sabha, with its core support areas almost exhausted in 2014. But much will depend on whether AIADMK holds together or is pulled into turbulence around Amma's trusted aide  .
 
 “The idea is to gradually appeal to AIADMK supporters, as confusion grows over the growing rivalry between CM Paneerselvam and Sasikala, neither of who are mass leaders,“ explained a senior party member. If AIADMK does not split, BJP could consider an electoral alliance or even tie up with DMK. BJP hopes to woo voters by providing the Paneerselvam government a helping hand from the Centre. The party is also seeking to adopt local icons like C N Annadurai in a bid to reconcile Dravidian politics with its nationalistic approach. In the short run, any upheaval will aid DMK and little is served by the Centre adopting a hostile posture.“Therefore, one will see more Centre-state programmes,“ explained a party member.
 
 BJP is more comfortable with Amma's balance of Dravidian and nationalist poli tics, rather than DMK's Dravidian identity approach.
 
 BJP is also trying to tap Tamil leaders from smaller parties like Vaiko or breakaway Congress groups and build bridges with popular figures like Rajnikanth. But for now there are no plans to poach from AIADMK. An immediate issue will be the Presidential elections coming up later this year.
 
 With M K Stalin who has his father Karunanidhi's blessings to take over as the next leader, DMK has less of a leadership crisis compared to AIADMK, say political watchers. Thus, BJP's attempt is to stall him from filling the vaccum created by Jayalalithaa's death. 
 
