MUMBAI: A chemist from   in Hingoli, Aurangabad, has been caught for illegally sourcing abortion kits from Indore and selling them at 10 times the maximum retail price.

  (FDA), that has begun a crackdown on chemists after the   foeticide racket came to light in March, stumbled upon this dealer and seized medical termination of pregnancy ( ) kits and other medicines worth over Rs 10 lakh.
 
 At least three FDA teams worked simultaneously after receiving a tip-off that   (35), who owns Jai Gajanand Medical and General Stores at Sengaon, was storing MTP kits in bulk in a godown under his residence. The team found a carton that could fit around 500 kits containing the combo of abortion pills, misoprostol and mifepristone. As only 407 kits were found in his possession, FDA officials suspect that 93 kits have already been sold or distributed. “We have found a diary in his possession that has names of people who probably bought the kits from him. We will now investigate his client base,“ said FDA commissioner Harshdeep Kamble, adding that local clinics and doctors will be the first one to be investigated. FDA will also check if he had any links with the Sangli foeticide racket. MTP kits cannot be sold without a prescription as unsupervised use can lead to serious health complications, including death, said Kamble. “The MTP kits belonged to a company called Zuventus and was sold under the brand name of Gestapo,“ he added.
 
 FDA officials also found Viagra, around 2 lakh tablets of alprazolam and 200 bottles of codeine cough syrup in the godown. Most of the drugs were manufactured in Haridwar. “Jethalia has a licence to run a chemist shop, but no purchase orders or records of who these drugs were sold to,“ Kamble said. At the time of going to press, the raid was still on.
 
 Madhuri Pawar of FDA 's vigilance department said Jethalia will be booked under sections18A and 18C of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act for selling medicine without prescription or bills. FDA has also involved the police and are likely to book him under the MTP Act.
 
 FDA joint commissioner from   said they will investigate who the kits were sold to.
 
