NASHIK: The state council of homeopathy has taken suo motu decision to terminate the membership of   B A Khidrapure for lifetime, after he was arrested in connection with an alleged  . 

 The Sangli police arrested Khidrapure from Miraj in the wee hours of Tuesday in connection with the death of a pregnant woman during a botched abortion at his hospital and the subsequent recovery of 19 aborted fetuses wrapped in polythene bags near a stream in village Mhaisal, 20km from the Maharashtra-Karnataka border, on Sunday. 
 
 Council president Ajit Funde said Khidrapure’s renewal of membership was pending from last five years. “He neither renewed his membership nor was he in contact with the council for years together. We consider such doctors as illegal practitioners,” he said. 
 
 The apex body of homeopathy doctors across the state has taken a series of tough decisions after the two medicos, one each in Nashik and Sangli, were found involved illegal abortions. Last month, a homeopath was arrested in Nashik for performing an illegal abortion on a woman.
 
 Funde said there must be involvement of other doctors like anaesthetists and gynecologists in both the cases. But as the main culprit was a homeopath, the entire school of medicine is getting unnecessarily defamed. 
 
 “In both cases, the doctors who were caught were homeopaths. But there must be more doctors involved. These incidents are bringing bad name to homeopathy. So, the council is very serious and will take strictest possible action on the doctors involved in illegal practice of modern medicines,” Funde said from his hometown Ahmednagar in Nashik division. 
 
 According to the Bombay Homoeopathic and Biochemic Practitioner Act, 1959, homeopaths are not allowed to prescribe allopathic medicines or conduct surgeries. “Some advanced courses have started in last two-three years which give additional knowledge of allopathic medicine to homeopaths. But it is completely illegal to conduct surgeries. The council has taken it as a serious offence,” Funde added. 
 
 The council is also gearing up to restructure the rules and regulations for registration and renewal of the registration of doctors, especially those who obtain their homeopathy degrees from outside the state. 
 
 Funde claimed that both the doctors had obtained their degrees from other state medical colleges. “The council has decided to introduce major reforms in membership rules for other state doctors. This will make it near impossible for the fake candidates coming from other states to get registration in  ,” he said. 
 
 The council will hold an executive meeting in Mumbai soon and will frame an advisory for the homeopathy practitioners in the state. “We will share the directives with all our members so that they can stay away from unethical practices,” Funde added. 
 
 
