GAYA: Gautam Buddha Mahila College, the oldest women’s college of Magadh division, has managed to get B grade from   and Accreditation Council (NAAC). The grading has been done on the basis of the findings of the three-member peer team that evaluated the strengths and weaknesses of the college during a two day inspection earlier this month.
 
  The NAAC team, led by  , former VC of the Berhampur University, Odisha and comprising P N Premlatha, department of historic studies and  , Mother Teresa Women’s University-Kodaikanal (Tamil Nadu) and Dr Juanita, retired principal, Fatima Convent School and College, Coorg (Karnataka) made a thorough inspection of the college on March 6 and 7.
  
  GBM College, Gaya got a cumulative grade point average of 2.18, only marginally more than the requirement for B grade status. Institutions getting CGPA between 2 and 3 are put in the B grade. Authorities of perhaps the most neglected women’s college of the state, running on less than 25% of its sanctioned faculty strength and functioning from a dilapidated rented building sans basic facilities like classrooms and toilets, are more than happy with the grading.
  
  After functioning from a   house for more than six decades, the college, established in 1954, partly moved to its under construction premises on January 25 this year. Altogether 37 of the 49 sanctioned posts of teachers are vacant and important subjects like physics and mathematics are not taught in the college.
  
  According to sources, while appreciating the dedication level of faculty members, including retired teachers, several of whom offer voluntary classroom service, the NAAC team noted with concern the nearly absolute shortage of teachers, innovation deficiency, inadequacies of the library and laboratory and poor facilities for co- curricular and extra-curricular activities. However, it appreciated the performance of the college’s NSS wing and wanted college officials to focus on both major and minor projects awarded by the University Grants Commission.
  
  Expressing satisfaction over the grant of B grade to the college, principal Satyendra Parjapati thanked the members of the college’s extended family, particularly retired teachers like former HoD, psychology, Manju Sharma and said he would work hard to remove the shortcomings mentioned by the peer team and  , particularly the library and laboratory.
