Madurai: Clearing the decks for teacher recruitment examination, to be held on September 23 as scheduled, a division bench of Madras high court has stayed an order of a single judge holding up the test being conducted by Teacher Recruitment Board ( ). More than 57,000 candidates have applied for 1,325 vacancies in government and corporation schools.

 “Since the government side informed us that 57,000 candidates have applied for the examination, we, on considering the larger public interest, are inclined to stay the single judge order. At the same time, no appointment shall be made until the court pass order in that regard,” said a bench comprising Justice MM Sundresh and Justice N Sathishkumar on Friday.
 
 In his petition, N Rajesh Kanna of Madurai had said the TRB on July 26 last issued notification for direct recruitment of special teachers (physical education, drawing, music and sewing) in school education and other departments, including elementary education, Chennai Corporation, state council for education, research and training (SCERT) and social defence. According to the notification, 1,325 vacancies, including 663 physical education teacher posts, are to be filled through the common written examination and weightage. 
 
 Conducting common written examination because, as per the NCTE (Determination of minimum qualification for persons to be recruited as physical education teachers in pre-primary, primary, upper primary, secondary, senior secondary or intermediate schools or colleges) Regulations, 2014, the qualification for PET post in primary and upper primary is different and distinct from that of PET in high school and higher secondary school, counsel for the petitioner argued.
 
 Besides, the scale of pay for PETs in those categories of schools is different as per the government order, counsel said, adding that common written test was illegal and unconstitutional.
 
 Hours after a single judge concurred with the submissions and granted interim stay for the conduct of the examination, the government side made mention before the division bench. It sought to file the appeal against the single judge order without the certified copy of the orders. Granting the request, the bench stayed the single judge order, but made it clear that results and appointments could not be done on the basis of September 23 written test.
 
 
