AHMEDABAD: The   has rejected a PIL filed by Congress party leader and former minister Babu Meghji Shah, who objected to the construction of a   on the land where Abad Dairy existed near Kankaria lake in the city.

 Shah alleged  ,000-crore scam in the deal of the prime land, which was handed over to a company on lease to develop the sports complex at a very meagre amount.
 
 A bench of Chief Justice RS Reddy and Justice VM Pancholi dismissed the PIL on Thursday on the ground of unexplained delay of over six years in approaching the court.
 
 Shah had questioned the handing over of 4,02,294-sqare metre plot to a private firm, SE Transstadia Pvt Ltd, to set up the sports complex. He alleged that the government handed over the land, which was valued at Rs 144.5 crore in 2011, without following proper procedure to the company on token rent of Rs 1 per square foot for next 35 years. He submitted that the rules provide that such plots can be rented at 15% of market value and in this case the notional annual rent is Rs 21 crore.
 
 The petitioner submitted that the prime land was taken over in 2007 by the state agriculture and cooperation department from Gujarat Dairy Development Board after the Abad Dairy was wound up. It was later taken over by the district collector in 2010, who further handed it over to the tourism commissioner on condition that he would not transfer it without collector’s consent.
 
 On the other hand, the private firm entered into an MoU with the state’s industries and mine department during the 2009 Vibrant Gujarat Summit for developing multipurpose sports stadium and recreation complex on token rent for next over three decades. The petitioner maintained that this deal was against the opinion expressed by the state revenue department, which opined that the land should rather be given on rent, which would fetch Rs 21 crore every year.
 
 While dismissing the PIL, the high court noticed that the delay in approaching the court was not the only reason for not entertaining the litigation, but over the period of time, the sports complex has been prepared and the Kabaddi World Cup was also organised in the stadium last year. There was no point in taking any decision on the PIL at this belated stage.
 
