Kolkata: Some packed their camera and laptop in between layers of clothes and kept it deep inside their trolley bags. Some packed the entire laptop bag inside the trolley and keyed in the numeric lock. Some left laptops and other banned gadgets at home to avoid any trouble while a few carried them on the cabin baggage and said they would wait for the instruction from the airline at the check-in counter.

 Saturday will mark Day 1 of the US government’s ban on electronic gadgets larger than a smartphone on Gulf airlines and flyers at the Kolkata airport on Friday were more cautious than adventurous, saying they don’t want to get into trouble especially being the first flyers since the imposition of the ban.
 
 The US announced on Tuesday that passengers flying into the country from 10 airports, including Dubai, Doha and Abu Dhabi, wouldn’t be allowed to carry devices larger than a smartphone in the cabin baggage. Although the ban will be implemented from Saturday, those who left the city on Etihad and Emirates flights on Friday came under the ban as they will be reaching their destinations on Saturday.
 
 “I did not take any chances and packed my laptop within layers of clothes inside my trolley bag. I am travelling with family and don’t want to get into any unnecessary trouble especially in another country where I don’t know anyone,” said Tushar Sahoo, a Salt Lake resident and software professional heading to the US to work there for six months. His wife and two-year-old daughter Sudiksha accompanied him. “I left my laptop at home and didn’t even bring my SLR camera. I don’t want to take any chances,” said Sahoo’s wife. 
 
 Sanjay Banerjee, a city-based musician headed for New York on an Emirates flight on Friday, kept the laptop in the check-in baggage. “I am aware that Emirates is allowing flyers to carry laptop till Dubai, from where they will pack, seal and put it in a separate check-in baggage. On getting down at the US airport, they will give it back to us. But I don’t want to get into that hassle. I can do without my laptop for a day.”
 
 A group of three financial consultants from the US who were in Kolkata for an assignment were returning home on Friday. They had planned to finish a project on their way back on the flight. But after knowing about the ban, they worked extra hours on Friday morning and had the laptops stowed in the check-in baggage.
 
 However, some, like Sukalyan Ghatak, also travelling on Emirates, said he was not going to keep the laptop in the check-in baggage. “This laptop belongs to my office and has confidential information. I will speak at the check-in counter and see what can be done,” he said.
 
 While Emirates allowed passengers to carry the laptops till the stop over check in at Dubai, Etihad and Qatar Airways officials said they are advising passengers not to carry their gadgets in the cabin. 
 
 “However, since Emirates is offering the services of laptop handling and packing for free at the stop over, other airlines will follow the same path. Or else, they will be missing a lot of flyers,” said Anil Punjabi, chairman, east, Travel Agents Federation of India.
 
 
