CHANDIGARH: It is festive season, but there’s no cheer for 80 workers hired on contract at the   and Art Gallery, Sector 10. These people who work as guards, sweepers, attendants, guides, and data-entry operators at the UT administration property have not been paid their salaries for August, even though September is almost over.

 The workers have knocked on almost all doors possible to push for the payment of their salaries, but officials have only given assurances and nothing has come off the meetings, according to Chandigarh Museum & Art Gallery Contract Workers’ Union president Sonu. “We approached UT adviser   this week. Though he forwarded our complaint to home secretary   and, soon after, our department’s director (  officer Kriti Garg) was instructed to ensure the payment of our salaries, nothing was done,” he said.
 
 He added that though workers had tried to meet the director, she did not have time. TOI sent text messages and made phone calls to Garg and Aggarwal, but they did not respond.
 
 Sonu said it was festive season and even they had to go for shopping. “It’s like we have been forgotten, like we don’t have any aspirations,” he said. “And it’s not just about festival season, we have been facing these delays since December 2016, when the administration hired a new contractor for disbursal of our salaries,” he added.
 
 According to members of the union, the contractor hired by the administration had been telling them that there had been a delay from the administration’s end. For the contractual workers, said Sonu, the delays had become routine. “We have been sending them correspondences evert month. It’s the same story: our salaries are credited late, regardless of the responsibilities that we have, like paying our children’s school fee, the house rent, and buying monthly groceries. We thought it won’t happen this month, but nothing has changed,” he said.
 
 A contractual worker who was with Sonu said they had been thinking of going on a strike, but then decided against it. “It will not serve any purpose. We want to get on with our jobs and with our lives, but that is possible only if we are paid,” he said.
 
 
