KOLKATA: The   on Friday suggested to make the West Bengal   a recomendary body with a  . It is likely to be cloaked with powers to investigate on its own, if needed, and slap penalties.

 The 10-member commission-with a former high court judge at the top, five IAS officers of secretary level and four representatives from   -will be highest appellate body where both the parties -the patients and the hospitals -will be able to appeal. If anyone is not satisfied with the commission's verdict, heshe they will have 60 days to go to the high court. The commission will have the authority to visit any hospital any time and if they are not allowed in, it will attract huge penalty .
 
 While wor king on the proposed Bill likely to be tabled in the state assembly on March 3, the state is also considering whether more teeth can be added to The West Bengal Clinical Establishments (Registration and Regulation) Act 2010. The Centre in 2015 had made amendments to a proposed draft act, with Odisha following suit in 2016. Bihar had made changes in 2014. The Act, which is already in vogue in Bengal, mandates a compensation of not less than Rs 5 lakh for death due to negligence or deficiency in services. It also says that com pensation has to be paid wit hin six months.
 
 According to senior health department officials, the amendments will have maxi mum thrust on transparency of  . “The clinical establishments shall have to charge the rates for services within the range of rates determined by the state government from time to time and shall ensure compliance to standard treatment guidelines. Every establishment shall maintain information and statistics in accordance with all applicable laws and rules,“ the official said.
 
 “The establishments will not only have to provide rate details, they will also have to prominently display details of facilities available.
 
 The copy of this will have to be provided to the commission and it should follow government guidelines. The nursing homes and hospitals will also have to provide the details of the treatment procedure, including strips of medicines, injections and saline bottles, along with the discharge certi ficates,“ he added.
 
