NEW DELHI: Bollywood's Aamir Khan today told his   co-star, Kashmiri teen  , that he's "with her", a day after she was 
  because J&K's chief minister called her "a Kashmiri role model".

 After J&K CM Mufti called 
  , Twitter trolls called both women "Indian agents." Zaira then wrote two posts on Facebook saying she doesn't want to be considered a role model. She then deleted these posts. Today, Aamir Khan came out in 
  .
 
 "I have read Zaira's statement, and I can understand and imagine what lead her to make that statement. Zaira, I want you to know that we are all with you. The beauty is that bright, young, talented, hardworking, respectful, caring and courageous kids like you are a role model for kids not only in India, but across the world. You certainly are a role model for me! May god bless you. Love. Aamir," the Bollywood star wrote.
 
 He added a P.S.: "I appeal to everyone to now leave her alone and respect the fact that she is just a 16 yr old girl trying her best to deal with life."
 
  
 
 
 Wrestler  , whom Zaira played in Dangal, also defended teenage filmstar. 
 
  "She shouldn't be scared as the nation is with her... There's no need for Zaira to issue an apology. She has not done anything wrong. We have made the nation proud by winning medals. It is a proud moment for the citizens of the country. Zaira has worked hard to play my role," Geeta said.
 
 Opposition leader, the National Conference's Omar Abdullah also supported Zaira, but he took a dig at Mufti. 
 
 "A 16-year-old shouldn't be 
  & that too allegedly for meeting @MehboobaMufti. What are we coming to!!!!!" Abdullah tweeted.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 National Conference chief Omar Abdullah supported her while taking a dig at Mehbooba. He tweeted: "A 16-year-old shouldn't be forced to apologise & that too allegedly for meeting @MehboobaMufti. What are we coming to!!!!!"
 
 Earlier, after being trolled, Zaira inexplicably wrote:
 
 "I am being projected as a role model for Kashmiri Youth. I want to make it very clear that I do not want anyone to follow in my footsteps or even consider me as a role model. I'm not proud of what I'm doing and I want everyone, especially the Youth, to know that there are real role models out there whether they be in this time or history. To even consider me as a role model would be disgracing them and their disgrace would be our disgrace," she wrote.
 
 
 
 
