MUMBAI: When you question 'the values   transmit' as   has done in his latest outburst aimed at  's men, you can expect it to go down badly with  .
It may be nearly 14 years since the Englishman's highly rewarding four-year spell at the Bernabeu came to an end, but as TOI discovered on Saturday, McManaman's love for Los Blancos remains as strong as ever.
 
 While confessing he had not caught up with all of Pique's juicy bytes following Spain's 2-0 friendly win over France midweek, McManaman felt the Barcelona defender was simply living up to his reputation as an outspoken man. "Pique says a lot of things," McManaman, in town to attend the National Finals of the Standard Chartered Trophy: Road to Anfield 2017, said with a wry smile. "His recent outburst, I don't know. With social media now, people say a lot of things all the time. I think he was inferring that there was bias towards Madrid. But certainly I wouldn't think on the field."
 
 That the man who scored Real's second goal in their 3-0 thrashing of Valencia in the 2000 Champions League final, making him the first English player ever to win the competition with a foreign club, still feels the El Clasico rivalry very strongly was clear as he added: "Sometime you get decisions and sometimes you don't. Barcelona got a lot of decisions when they beat Paris St Germain 6-1. I thought they got a lot of decisions that day. And I think that at other times you don't get decisions. That's football and it's always been like that. So yeah, it's nonsense."
 
 McManaman, of course, played alongside some of the game's best footballers at Real, none more so than French maestro Zidane. And he said his former teammate's immediate impact since taking charge of the Bernabeu bench last January caught him by surprise. "I'm surprised how quickly he was a success, but the Real Madrid team he took over were an incredible group of players so they should be at the top," said the 45-year-old, however, revealing his gut feeling that   would not only edge his former team in their upcoming Champions League quarterfinal but go on to win the title itself. "If Bayern Munich keep everybody fit, I think they will win the trophy. So my head says Bayern, my heart says Madrid."
 
 McManaman also spent nine seasons at   prior to his switch to Spain and though he was speaking ahead of the Merseyside Derby, Saturday's 3-1 win for Juergen Klopp's men would surely have left him a happy man. "If Liverpool win today (which they did) and win at home against Bournemouth on Wednesday, they should finish in the top four. Because a lot of the big teams still have to face each other. Liverpool have played many of the big teams, so to a certain extent it's in their hands," the former Kop favourite said, insisting Klopp was the right man to end Liverpool's wait for that elusive 19th league crown. "They are getting closer with Klopp. They finished eight last year. Of course he is the right guy. In the 18th months he's been in charge, they have been in a couple of finals.
 
 "But it's important that Liverpool, like the other big teams, finish in the Champions League. You want to see some progression and if they finish in the Champions League this year, that is progression."
 
