Television actress  , who has done soaps like  , was recently in Jaipur for the pilot shoot of an upcoming show. The actress shot in and around Amber and Samode for four days and was floored by Jaipur's architecture. She told us how she was in love with the fact that the city had maintained its old monuments so well.Along with the architecture, Jaipur's jewellery and bandhani saris have also caught the actress' fancy . And now, Mansi, who recently got engaged to TV actor  , has decided to do her wedding shopping from Jaipur.
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
  “The last visit to Jaipur was just a one-day trip and I couldn't get the time to explore the city much. This time, I was here for a pilot shoot for four days, and got the time to visit Jal Mahal and Amber Fort. I then went to Bapu Bazaar and nearby markets where I bought mojris, ethnic skirts and some silver jewellery .It was fun to shop in such colourful markets.Everything is so eye catching that your shopping bags will never seem big enough. I loved the kundan jewellery and bandhani saris. I have decided that I will be doing my wedding shopping ­ if not all but some ­ from Jaipur,“ said Mansi. This made us ask her about her wedding dates. To which, the actress replied, “The dates are not decided yet, but it will happen soon."
  
  
 
  
  Opening up on her decision to get married early in her career, the actress shared, “I have been dating Mohit (Abrol) for long before our engagement, and we will be marrying soon. Gone are the days when marriages would mark the end of an actress' career. Look at   (who got married to  ) or even Divyanka Tripathi (married to Vivek Dahiya) ­ they both are working even after marriage and are doing really well. In fact, I am excited to start a new chapter in my life soon.“
  
  Also, Mansi is gearing up for her Bollywood debut. She will be seen as a supporting actor in a big-banner film. “I had always wanted to do a big banner film. That is because, at the end of the day , big banners help you get noticed,“ she said.
