PANAJI: The academic year 2015-16 saw 15 out of 20 students of Goa University’s (GU)   failing their  . This translates into a   of 75%. The rate in the physics department stood at 43%.

 GU has presented these figures in its annual quality assurance report submitted to the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC).
 
 The poor performance of students in pure sciences at the post graduate level in Goa only appears to reflect the trend at Goa’s school level. Subsequent findings of NCERT’s national achievement surveys have, over the years, shown that Goa’s school students perform badly in mathematics and the sciences, while excelling at languages, particularly English.
 
 The mathematics department saw one student scoring an A while the physics department saw three score an A. However, in contrast, between 50% to 60% of the students from the departments political science, electronics, Hindi and Konkani scored an A grade, and the failure rate was low.
 
 The varsity’s PG students do not just seem to have trouble coping with the pure sciences, but also related subjects like economics, which requires the use of mathematical concepts. The failure rate stood at 37% in the subject.
 
 “One reason could be that the pedagogy is not sound at the primary school level and the interest in these subjects is not being generated. Up to the higher secondary school level, students attend coaching classes and manage to just about keep their heads above the water. This means that they don’t necessarily understand the concepts. Those who do turn up at the PG level thinking that the subject might interest them, then find it difficult to cope,” said a source.
 
 In fact, consistent poor performance in the mathematics department had led former vice-chancellor   to seek an explanation from the department’s faculty in the past.
 
 Another pure science department, chemistry, may not have a high percentage of failures, but those failing in terms of numbers is significant with 11 out of 72 not making the cut.
 
 The department of chemistry, recently, saw a change, which has students choosing their area of specialisation from the first year of their postgraduation itself. This change does not seem to have gone down well with the students.
 
 Portuguese is the only language department with a failure rate of 50% in 2015-16. Two of the only four students at the department could not cope. But, this does not come as a surprise. Goa does not offer the language at the degree level due to a dearth of qualified teachers of the language and the department at GU has to often start from the basics.
 
