
A couple of years ago a well-known industrialist approached me to write his biography. Before taking up the project, I made some enquiries. The most useful piece of advice came from an accomplished lady, my senior in college, who said, “He’s got a good story but just be careful… he’s one of those.” 
 
 When this elderly gentleman offered to send his company car, I refused. When he offered to put me up at a hotel close to his office, I refused. When he offered an expensive gift, I refused. It became a game, actually. How to keep my calm, my distance, and just do the work required of me as a professional. 
 
 In less than a fortnight, I dropped the project due to a dispute over a legal issue. But I look back at this experience as an important lesson. The fact that ‘nothing happened’ is because forewarned is forearmed. No man, no matter how well-meaning could have told me this fact of life so bluntly. More power to the ‘sisterhood’. 
 
 For a long time, I actually believed a woman can achieve anything she sets her mind and heart to. And that’s exactly what I experienced in my life. Over time, however, I see the systemic, societal and self-created obstacles   have to encounter. And it’s that little bit easier — and faster — when you get the right kind of advice. 
 
 The old boys’ club exists and plays out on golf courses, in business class, over drinks in the Harbour Bar. That’s networking — what’s wrong with it, you might say. Well, imagine a ‘sis culture’ where deals were struck over manicures or in power yoga class. Sounds like an unfair advantage, right? Exclusion is what lies at the very heart of  . Creates, sustains and perpetuates it. 
 
 So if we do have a sisterhood to counter that, what would it look like? First of all, women who have navigated the minefield and achieved positions of power need to share more and care more. They must stand up for each other, when it comes to the issues no one wants to talk about. Like sexual harassment. It’s something every woman alive has experienced privately, and professionally. 
 
 I recently shared an experience I had 13 years ago, with a Mumbai-based startup investor*. Why I shared it now is that somewhere this experience left a scar. The emergence of social media gave me the platform and my 17-year-old daughter gave me the strength. She said I would fall in her eyes, if I ‘let it go’. 
 
 Sharing has brought me closure as well as empowered four others to speak out. When people choose to look the other way it is a kind of tacit approval of such behaviour. It’s true there are laws. But scared by the hassle of dealing with police and courts, most women choose to stay silent. Vishakha guidelines are a welcome step forward but may not be applicable in all situations. A zero-tolerance attitude in our social fabric is the only permanent cure. 
 
 The ultimate goal of the sisterhood is to change the ‘bro’ way of doing business. Where success is equated purely with money. ‘Value’ is built without supporting values. You can’t dump $100 million into a startup and expect it to become a mature, sustainable company in say, three short years. Just like you can’t fertilise an egg and expect a baby to be born in three short months. 
 
 Men are genetically wired to spread their sperm and not bother about the ‘carrying’ part of the process. Women are just the opposite. We nurture a child in our womb and know it will take no less than 18 years to see an infant blossom into adulthood. That is the law of nature. It applies to business as much as it applies to a mango tree. 
 
 If   had been Lehman Sisters, our world would be quite different.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
