GOA: The Ad Club’s annual advertising festival   concluded with the highlight of the festival: the  .   emerged top of the table by bagging 41 metals, with   coming a close second with 40   and   coming in third with 36 metals.
 
    picked up 21 metals and   took home 20 metals. The Gender Sensitive Abby gold metal was picked up by Star India, for ‘Nayi Soch’, a cricket campaign. JWT India picked up silver and bronze metals for 'Not My Hero' for Red Dot Foundation and 'My Daughter Will' for Haiyya respectively. Cellar Door Productions won a silver metal for Urban Clap’s Men’s Day.
  
  The Young Abby award went to FCB Interface for ‘Ads that Actually Saved Water’ for Drop Dead Foundation, which won them a trip to Cannes Lions 2017. Amitabh Kant, CEO of NITI Aayog, was felicitated with the prestigious Champions of Excellence Award for his extraordinary contribution towards building Brand Kerala as 'God’s Own Country'.
  
 Meanwhile, seminars and workshops continued. The Knowledge seminars saw Eric Cruz speaking about whether Asians were creative enough to invent our own world in his session.
  
  "The root problem is the way Asians grow up. Our academic structures, values and cultural environment leads to the loss of creativity," Cruz said. He ended with a hopeful note by stating that since 50 per cent of students in the West were Asians, there is a new generation which is learning from the West to implement change and innovation in their respective countries. "China, Korea and India will be the centers of innovation in the years to come," Cruz said.
  
  In her session, Juhi Kalia, head of Facebook Creative Shop spoke about the importance of concept-driven, wellcrafted content. "We need to shift from social media content to media content. Media content is about the beauty of an idea that comes in real time," she said. She showcased various features that Instagram was adopting including Shoppable videos, 360 degree video series, and hyper-personlisation which catered to different sections of people from different age groups. "We need poeple to chase ideas and not formats," Kalia added.
