AHMEDABAD:   has asked the state government to grant a job to a person with cerebral palsy, who was earlier denied a job after having been selected for the post on the ground that he not only did he have problems with mobility, but he is also unable to speak and write properly.

 Reminding the government of its noble goal to give equal treatment to people with disability in jobs,   sprang in action when she encountered the problem of  , who has a master’s degree in computer applications.
 
 Chavda was selected for the post of supervisor at an   (ITI) during a recent recruitment drive by the government. After his selection, he was refused the job by the selection committee on the ground that he was not able to speak and write properly and hence not eligible for the post. The job of a technical supervisor requires a person to speak clearly and make trainees understand subjects well.
 
 After this denial, Chavda tried hard to convince the authorities that the action was in violation of the Persons with Disabilities (Equal opportunities, protection of rights and full participation) Act. 
 
 When he failed, he moved the high court. Advocate Kuldeep Vaidya of the legal aid service represented him. When his case was put before the court, Justice Gokani reminded the state government of the Centre’s   – the Sugamya Bharat Abhiyan. The court also discussed the laudable objective of the campaign to secure the right to equality and to a life with honour and dignity for the disabled.
 
 The HC observed that the government’s denial of the job to Chavda was in violation of the constitutional provisions. Justice Gokani personally met Chavda and came to the conclusion that his mental faculties were not in any manner affected, despite his cerebral palsy with spastic quadriplegia.
 
 The court requested the government pleader Manisha Shah to take up Chavda’s case positively with the concerned authorities. The lawyer also interviewed him and pursued the matter. The government ensured that Chavda would be accommodated in the job. The HC issued directions in this regard and appreciated the government pleader’s role in getting the youth the job.
 
