PUNE: The   ( ) has suspended its quality control engineer   for dereliction of duty. 

 Confirming the development, a senior official of the transport body said Waghmare was suspended late on Saturday night.
 
 “Waghmare had approved some spare parts like an engine and a gear shaft for buses. They were later found to be in bad shape and didn’t even fit in the bus. Investigations revealed that the official was not doing his job properly and hence he was suspended. Now, an inquiry will be held and based on the report, either further action will be initiated against him or he will be reinstated. No more comments can be made for now,” the official said. 
 
 On April 28, Waghmare, who was earlier holding the additional post of general manager (operations), had been removed and was posted as the quality control engineer. He was also removed from his original position of traffic manager (operations).
 
 The removal of Waghmare, who was earlier considered to be an able hand at PMPML, surprised many. Most officials refrained from talking on the matter while adding that there was a buzz in the PMPML office after the action.
 
 “The decision has come from higher ups and it shouldn’t be questioned. The reason on why the post of general manager (operations) has been kept empty still can only be answered by the PMPML CMD and the Board. The transport body has been witnessing many changes since April. Last week, the CMD either suspended or took other action against 16 people after he found anomalies on the BRTS routes,” another official told TOI.
 
 A depot manager said the PMPML was going through a radical change and there was no room for errors. “It is a fact that many officials had taken things easy for years. Things have changed now and one needs to work seriously and hard. Whether they are a junior level official or senior, everyone is now under the scanner. There are strict instructions to work seriously or face the stick,” he said.
 
 When contacted, Waghmare refused to comment.
 
