MUMBAI: An   has been registered against promoter and managing director of   Rajesh Bhatia accusing him of cheating to the tune of Rs 5.90 crore. It followed a complaint by a Kolkata-based   firm.

 Tree House runs 650 primary and 24 high schools pan India. In the first week of December, most of its centres here stopped holding classes due to non-payment of dues of teachers and landlords. Teachers resumed teaching mid-January as the centres were re-opened as franchise models and were taken over by other playschool groups. But parents are unsure what will happen in the next academic year. 
 
 Pranay Dhelia (34), director of Vincent Trading Pvt Ltd, on January 31 filed a case against Bhatia, from Khar, at Amboli police station. The case is being investigated by the city’s economic offences wing (EOW). Sandeep Karnik, deputy police commissioner (EOW), said, “We are trying to get all information. All those concerned will be summoned.” 
 
 A police source said Bhatia, who manages the day-to-day affairs, allegedly concealed the true financial picture of the company, and got Dhelia, other shareholders and financial institutions to invest in it, and banks to lend a loan. Dhelia told police Bhatia siphoned off funds and caused a Rs 5.90 crore loss to his company. 
 
 Dhelia said his firm purchased shares of Rs 13.97 crore during December 2015-December 2016. It sold shares worth Rs 4.68 crore during that period, but their value on the day of the FIR was Rs 3.38 crore, a loss of Rs 5.90 crore. Dehlia accused Bhatia and others of cheating and criminal breach of cheating by falsifying accounts and fabricating financial statement/results, submitting it to authorities like BSE/NSE and displaying it on the company’s web site and in annual reports. 
 
 Bhatia told TOI he was not aware of any case against him. A police officer said Sebi will be told to find out if the share value of Tree House was rigged. “We are probing if money was diverted to other account(s) or persons,” added the officer.
 
 
