Kolhapur: Southern Maharashtra is going to receive intermittent rainfall for the next three to four days, according to a report by the Pune office of Indian Metrological Department (IMD).

 For the last four days, the city and most parts of the district received scanty rainfall. On Monday, the rainfall recorded was 1.69 mm with the highest rainfall of 11.50 mm recorded in Gaganbawda taluka.
 
 The IMD report states that Konkan and Goa region will receive normal rainfall. After July 13, the intensity of the rains will increase. From July 14, southern Maharashtra will receive medium intensity rainfall.
 
 Farmers in the district are waiting for the rains as they have completed sowing Khariff crops. They include groundnuts, soyabean, sugarcane and other crops which are water intensive and rain dependent.
 
 An official of the district agriculture department said, "Sowing of rice and maize is complete. Irrigation facilities are in place at most of the parts of the district. However, in hilly and high altitude areas, farmers are completely dependent on rains for growing Khariff crops. The chances of re-sowing are low at present and we are monitoring the advance of monsoon to ensure that all measures such as procurement of seeds and providing additional water to the farms are in place."
 
 Since June 1, the total rainfall recorded in the district is 4,222 mm. Blocks such as Hatkanangale, Shirol, Karvir, Kagal, Gadhingalj and Ajara have gone completely dry in the last three days.
 
 “Ghatprabha and Kode dams are full while other dams such as Radhanagari, Warana, Kadvi, Chikotra have been filled up to 50%. The water level in the dams is sufficient for irrigation. However demand may increase as the rain delays," said the official.
 
 Cultivation has taken place over 1.5 lakh hectares and most of the crops are sugarcane and rice. The district has reported an increase of 12% in foodgrain cultivation.
 
 BOX
 
 Stats
 
 *Average rainfall in district on Monday-1.6mm
 
 *Total rainfall since June 1-4222 mm
 
 *Highest rainfall in Gaganbawada-11.50 mm
 
 *Dams full-Ghatprabha and Kode
 
 
