HYDERABAD: With ATMs running dry on account of limited supply of cash by the   (RBI), several top bank officials have said more and more people will be forced towards cashless transactions. 

 In March, the RBI made only five remittances to banks in the state as against 12 needed in a month. Bankers privately say this is a push towards a cashless economy. 
 
 Before demonetisation, most of the 5,200 ATMs in the city used to hold about 5 lakh on an average, but this week, 90 per cent of the ATMs did not have any cash. Residents struggled to withdraw money from ATMs across the city on Monday as well. 
 
 "The government may be of the view that limiting cash supply will only push the market towards cashless economy, especially in states like Telangana where aadhaar and bank linkage is high," a top manager of a public sector bank said on conditions of anonymity. 
 
 The forced cashless transactions in the market has also tightened the circulation of hard cash, triggering cash crunch in banks. Explaining the current crisis, a manager of top private bank said, "Banks get supply of cash from RBI and also in the form of market receipts. The traders and businesses deposit their money from daily activities into banks. But due to cash crunch and increased digital transactions, the deposits have come down," he said. Banks usually depend on the receipts from from customers and load ATMs accordingly, when there is a limited cash supply.
 
 Sources in private banks said they are analysing the situation and planning to cut down the number of ATMs "We are assessing the situation now, may be after two months we may have to take the call," said a private bank manager.
 
 The public sector banks may be more conservative in reducing ATMs "We are also assessing, and I cannot say anything on cutting down ATMs, but we will definitely relocate the ATMs. We will try to identify more busy areas and relocate the ATMs there," S  , assistant general manager of the  , said. 
 
 According to highly-placed officials, though cash supplies were nearing normalcy in January and February, residents have been hit hard in March wit the government removing limits on ATM withdrawals. 
 
 The government in the past four months has tried organising massive events such as the " ", to propagate new apps such as   (BHIM), Unstructured Supplementary Service Data (USSD) and Bharat QR to educate people in cashless transactions. 
 
 The situation at ATMs is likely to improve after the salary week. Many banks are loading on-site ATMs (attached to branches), but they are also getting emptied within an hour or so. Sources in banks say they are studying the pattern of digital and ATM transactions, before they relocate machines or shut them down.
 
