MUMBAI:  ,one of the missing Kerala youths allegedly indoctrinated to join  , wanted to only marry a woman from another religion who would convert to Islam. The revelation was made by his father to the   (NIA) and is one among the 49 statements included in the chargesheet handed over to incarcerated accused Arshi Qureshi, a manager with the   who is accused of instigating the group along with absconding accused Abdul Rashid.

 Abdul Hamza, 66-year-old businessman father of two youths who fled, told the investigating agency , “My son Dr Ijaz (Rehman) married Rafeela. But my other son, Shiyas, wanted to marry a girl who had converted to Islam from another religion as it was significant according to Islam as taught by Rashid. We had seen beautiful girls for him but he refused to marry them on the condition that he wanted to marry a converted girl.“ He said that Shiyas eventually married a woman suggested by Rashid who worked as a speech therapist with a hospital and belong ed to a “big royal family“. The father said since Shiyas strictly followed the religion, the marriage was conducted in a simple manner.
 
 Hamza further said that the group, comprising his two sons and others, began to sport long beards and wore long kandura, an ankle length loose-fitting robe. “Many a times, I told them to shave the beard but they replied that to shave was against Islam,“ he added.
 
 In line with his own teachings, Rashid had married a woman who converted from Christianity . His brother told the investigating agency that after obtaining a BTech degree, Rashid worked in Dubai for six years. He got married after returning to Kerala in August 2011. “His was a love marriage but arranged by our family . His wife,  , was originally a Christian who converted before marriage to Islam and accepted the name Ayesha. She has a degree in BTech and MBA,“ he said.
 
 Shamsiya, the wife of another youth, Ashfaq Majeed, whose father is the complainant in the case, was also a microbiology topper from a Coimbatore university and has travelled with him Syria along with their two-year-old daughter.
 
