MUMBAI: The residents of six Bandra-East   (MIG)   are locked in a battle with the   (I-T) department, thanks to a financial windfall following the   of their buildings.

 Each of the six societies received a Rs 30-200 crore corpus from the builder. Also, every flat owner, besides getting a bigger apartment for free, got compensation between Rs 50 lakh and Rs 1 crore. This prompted the I-T department to issue notices to individual flat owners and their housing societies.
 
 The societies have now challenged the department and managed to obtain a favourable   decision in one case and a high court stay in another. The Bandra MIG redevelopment project is the city’s biggest.
 
 The residents’ contention is that tax cannot be levied on housing societies since individual members have already settled their dues with the I-T department. “This is double taxation,” said a residents’ representative.
 
 In one case, a demand of Rs 73 crore, including interest and penalty, was made of the MIG Group 4 housing society. Its 168 members, rehabilitated in a new tower, were also paid Rs 62-80 lakh each by the builder Rustomjee as part of the redevelopment package.
 
 “We have challenged the notice before the commissioner of I-T (appeals) on the grounds that the society did not receive the amounts. The society was only the custodian, which negotiated the agreement on behalf of the members,” said Jimmy Francis, a member.
 
 The I-T notice served on the society says under cooperative society rules, compensation received because of a property belonging to a society shall be used for the society’s welfare. The notice says, “In the present case, the society (MIG Group 4) has allowed each member to receive (his or her) share of additional compensation for extinguishing (his or her) rights and interests in the society in addition to (a new flat). This amount, if received by the society in its account, shall amount to profit, which is not distributable among the members under the rules.”
 
 Put simply, the notice says that it is individual members (and not the society), who, besides getting a new flat (in place of their old flat), received money. As per the notice, such an amount cannot be given to members under I-T rules. The notice says that giving compensation directly to members was only a “colourable device” so that the society could avoid paying tax.
 
 Another society, MIG Group 2, comprising 96 members, however, won its case in the I-T Appellate Tribunal. Each member received Rs 53.5 lakh from the developer, Kalpataru Group. The I-T department demanded Rs 33 crore, but the tribunal ruled, “In our opinion, once the members have shown income received by them in their hands, there cannot be justification for taxing the same in the hands of the society. ‘No double taxation’ and ‘no double deduction’ is one of the well-recognized and fundamental principles of taxation. The signing of an agreement by a society’s members or the society cannot be the base for taxing income. In this case, income was received by members and they offered the same for taxation.”
 
 Harsh Roongta, a resident of MIG Group 2, said the society has already paid Rs 3 crore in tax on the Rs 15 crore it received from the developer as corpus. “We have claimed a refund,” he said.
 
 The I-T department has also frozen the bank accounts of one society (Model MIG). A resident said this has made it difficult for the society to meet everyday expenses.
 
 Another society, MIG Group 3, received a tax notice of Rs 39 crore. The society approached the Bombay high court, which stayed the notice in December.
 
 Radius Developers, which is redeveloping MIG Group 1, is believed to have paid a corpus of Rs 200 crore to its 196 members. Each member received almost Rs 1 crore. The society has received a tax notice of Rs 142 crore.
 
