BOKARO: A 21-year-old Taekwondo player Reena (name changed) has lodged an FIR against her   Saumya (name changed), also a taekwondo player, and few other persons for compelling her to lodge a   of rape against a Taekwondo association official,  , in February in Bokaro. 

 In the complaint, the woman accused her friend and a Dhanbad-based youngster, Saurav Sharma, of blackmailing her by threatening to post her nude photograph on social media and Youtube. She said she was also kidnapped by them and taken to Delhi. 
 
 Bokaro SP Y S Ramesh said: “Based on the complaint, we have lodged a complaint against Saumya, Saurav Sharma and some others.”
 
 In Delhi, the two compelled Reena to lodge a complaint against the Tekwondo association official with the Women Commission and the   police station. The issue is related to an FIR lodged with the police station by Saumya against Sanjay in February. Saumya in her FIR had mentioned that Sanjay had sexually abused her and Reena during a sports tour. 
 
 Police had arrested Sanjay from his house in Dhanbad and sent him to judicial custody. However, after more than two months Reena has now claimed that the allegation leveled by her and Saumya is false. Saumya then had lodged a complaint on direction of former authorities of the Taekwondo Federation of India. 
 
 Earlier the matter was reported by the Saumya at Kamla Market police station in Delhi against Sanjay alleging rape which was transferred to Sector-6 police station in Bokaro on February 8 as the incident allegedly occurred at a private school here. 
 
 Saumya in the FIR had alleged that her coach,  , had raped her during championship in 2008. Later when she went to Sanjay to complain about the matter he also raped her. Saumaya had alleged that Sanjay has clicked objectionable photos of her and had used them to blackmail and rape her repeatedly at his home, car and rest house. 
 
 While lodging the FIR with the Sector-6 police station, Reena had stated that the incident occurred on February 2, 2017 when she had come to Bokaro to participate in a Taekwondo tournament at a private school here. She claims that at that time Saumya and Saurav met her and threatened to release her nude photos on social media.
 
 Both of them asked her to meet them at the City Centre. When she reached there, apart from Saumya and Saurav there were two more persons. Saurav asked her to sit in an autorickshaw and said the driver to move towards Bokaro Railway Station. 
 
 “Reena felt shocked and when she resisted, Saurav told her that they have to move Delhi to stop the photos from going viral. They forced her to board Jharkhand Express. Reaching Delhi they detained Reena illegally for three days in a private hotel where Saumya and Saurav compelled her to draft a complaint against Sanjay,” said an officer of the sector 6 police station.
 
 Reena has alleged that Saurav took her to an office in Noida-18 saying her photos will be deleted there. Saurav also told her that her nude photo is with other Taekwondo players in Dhanbad and Bokaro. Though after complaint was lodged in Delhi, the Saumya and Saurav made Reena sign in a blank paper and brought her back to Ranchi by flight. 
 
