Bhopal: At a time when chilling reports of crime against children, including rape and sexual abuse are being reported daily,   Child Welfare Committee (CWC) continues to remain without a   for the second year in a row.

 As per the law, a committee cannot issue an order without the chairman and should have a team of five members, including the chairman. However, state capital has only four members, who decide the fate of children, who committed crime.
 
 Sources said protection of child rights, which is a prime responsibility of the CWC and delivering justice pertaining to children cases, the government seems to be reluctant to accord priority to fill the vacant post.
 
 “It is quite apparent from the fact that child welfare committees (CWCs) in many of the districts across  , including state capital are running without members or chairman,” official sources said.
 
 In 2013, a research report was published by the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR), which revealed in Madhya Pradesh, 27 child welfare committees have either no members or no chairperson. It means resolving a case can even take a year, going by the report finding.
 
 The gravity of the situation could be gauged from the fact that in recent past, a 15-year-old burns victim, Sonali, who was from Bhopal, lost her life, waiting for the orders of CWC to grant permission to shift her to a private hospital for better treatment. Her father had poured hot oil on her in a fit of rage.
 
 Under the Juvenile Justice Act, vulnerable children in need of care and protection from the state must be sent to the district CWC, which determines form of rehabilitation they require.
 
 According to women and child development department orders, CWCs are told to hold at least 20 sessions per month, three or more in a week to complete pendency of cases and help children find a better way of living, but there has been no appointment of chairman since January 2016 in Bhopal CWC.
 
 Bhopal CWC sits at Balika Griha campus at Nehru Nagar on Monday, Wednesday and Friday to hear cases of new children coming in and those living in Juvenile Home, Balika Griha and other shelter homes of NGOs.
 
 The issue was earlier taken up by Madhya Pradesh Commission for Protection of Child Rights (MPCPCR) in which the body had written to collectors of 27 districts asking them to ensure appointment of chairman and members of CWCs at the earliest.
 
 Speaking to TOI, MPCPCR chairman Raghvendra Sharma said, “CWC members as per law can take decision without a chairman. As far as Bhopal CWC chairman is concerned, the matter is sub-judice, I cannot comment on the issue. It is true that working gets hampered when a body is headless, but in this matter let the court decide.”
 
 Nirmala Buch, president, Child Rights Observatory, said, “They are dealing with such vulnerable children and take big decisions to decide their fate without a chairman. As per law, the members cannot take a decision unless it is approved by the chairman.”
 
 
