LUCKNOW: The   process for undergraduate   in   will begin from Monday. The application form and detailed guidelines will be made available on the official website of the university. For the first time, the university is going cashless for its admission procedure.

 “The application fee can be deposited only through debit card, credit card and net banking. The last date for submitting application form is May 10,” said admission coordinator Anil Mishra.
 
 He said the entrance test for UG admission will be held in May end. The entrance test will comprise 100 multiple choice questions to be answered in 90 minutes. Students will be tested for knowledge of subjects taught at class XII level in UP board,   and  , he added.
 
 Mishra said admission test for faculty of fine arts will comprise 50 objective type questions to be answered in 60 minutes. “Each question will carry 4 marks and one mark will be deducted for each incorrect answer and zero marks will be awarded for each question not attempted ,” he said.
 
 
 
 
 Candidates seeking admission to Lucknow University’s associated colleges will no more have to struggle to find detailed information about colleges. Centralised data of all associated colleges will be made available on the official website of the university by the end of this month.
 
 “Students will no more have to struggle for information about a particular college and courses available in them as all information will be made available on the official website,” said dean college development council R R Yadav. Presently, only a list of associated colleges and their phone numbers is available on the university official website. The link of the faculty, infrastructure, courses and other information of the college will be made available, he added.
 
 Moreover, LU directed colleges to send teachers’ Aadhar number along with details to the university to keep a tab on fake teachers. He said Aadhar details have been sought to ensure that same teacher is not teaching in more than one college and to identify colleges projecting fake student-teacher ratio.
 
 
