CHANDIGARH: The story behind the famous Patiala peg, which finds its roots in the erstwhile royal family from the city, has been unravelled in   president Captain Amarinder Singh’s authorised biography, ‘Captain  : The People’s Maharaja’, that hit the shelves on Tuesday.

 The Patiala peg — in which the volume of liquor is roughly equivalent to 120 ml – is actually measured by the distance between the index and little finger when they are held parallel against a glass. “The credit for coining the famous moniker ‘Patiala Peg’, now an intrinsic part of urban- and rural-drinking vocabulary, goes to Maharaja Bhupinder Singh. Used uncharitably during the 2012 Punjab assembly elections against the Congress state president, none other than Amarinder Singh, to underline alcohol abuse amongst the Patiala royals, the phrase is actually a result of a cricket match between the Maharaja of Patiala’s team and the British, when the latter were visiting in the first decade of twentieth century,” reads the book.
 
 “When the ‘viceroy’s pride’ arrived in Patiala for a friendly match, the home team, fearing a loss, hatched a conspiracy to get the visitors supremely sozzled. And so, on the evening preceding the face-off, members of the viceroy’s pride were poured double measures of whisky each time. Expectedly, they woke up groggy and heavy heads. The upshot was that the Britishers lost to the maharaja’s team.”
 
 Incensed by the loss, the political agent of the viceroy went up to the maharaja to complain. The maharaja, reads the book, replied, “Yes, in Patiala our pegs are larger.” 
 
 
 
 
 Another Patiala royal Rajinder Singh’s marriage to an Irish lady is also elaborated upon in the book. The book quotes a demi-official letter: “…emphatically breaks the myth of Shimla’s Scandal point, as the marriage isn’t at all a galloping episode as eulogized by tourist guides and writers.”.. “His Highness the   privately married Miss Florry Bryan, sister of Mr C Bryan. The lady was first baptized according to the Sikh religion.”
 
