PATNA: The state cabinet on Tuesday approved two new policies for promoting investments in information technology (IT) and electronics manufacturing sectors. The IT/ITes Investment Promotion Vision 2017 and Electronics System Design and Manufacturing Vision 2017 are likely to be unveiled by CM Nitish Kumar during the two day IT conclave cum investment meet from Wednesday.

 The two policies would have incentives for firms dealing in IT and electronics manufacturing centres to set up their units in the state. Sources in IT department said the two policies would provide incentives prospective investors for providing land and subsidy on power tariff, loan interest, research and development and employment generation. 
 
 IT department officials said senior executives of more than 100 leading multinational firms have confirmed their participation in the conclave, which would start with a 24-hour Bihar Hackathon 2017 on the BIT-Mesra campus here. Students from over 100 institutions would brainstorm and solve real time IT-related problems being faced by various state government departments as part of the contest. 
 
 The main conclave would be held at a hotel on Thursday. Top executives from the leading firms would be addressed by CM, his deputy Sushil Kumar Modi and Union minister of electronic and IT and law and justice  .
 
 In another important decision, the cabinet approved the action plan for elimination of child labour. 
 
 Briefing newsmen, cabinet secretariat department principal secretary   said the action plan enumerates roles and responsibilities of different departments in ensuring child labour eradication in the state. “For instance, social welfare department has been made the nodal agency while education department will be responsible for educating the masses about the ills of child labour. Similarly, home department will keep a vigil on child labour activities,” he said.
 
 The cabinet also cleared a road construction department proposal to construct a flyover between   and Municipality   at  . It will cost Rs.411.31 crore.
 
 Total 15 decisions were taken by the state cabinet on Tuesday.
 
 
