LUCKNOW: Governor   is learnt to have strong note of delay in constitution of various committees of the state assembly which is hampering its functions. Sources confirmed to TOI that the new assembly has not constituted any of the nearly 20   committees, even as the budget session starts from July 11. Earlier, a special session was called for the passage of the GST Bill, while in the second session to commence on Tuesday, first budget of the government would be tabled. 

 Traditionally, the House has nearly 20 different committees, including for public accounts, public undertaking, rules, petitions, assurance, etc. All committees have different roles and rules but are chaired mostly by a senior leader of the Opposition party, except in some cases where Speaker is the chairman.
 
 So far, only one House panel, the business advisory   comprising leaders of all political parties under the chairmanship of the Speaker has been set up for day-to-day business while rest of the committees have not been constituted yet.
 
 The House, through a resolution, had empowered Speaker Hridaya Narain Dixit to form these committees. Dixit had written to various political parties to name their representatives so that they could be nominated in the House committees to get them functioning but no one has responded to the request so far.
 
 Dixit told TOI that the committees would be formed as soon as soon as political parties recommend the names of the leaders of their parties. “I am waiting for the political parties to respond as I cannot select the names on my own,” he said.
 
 Even the rules committee to be chaired by the Speaker has not been constituted so far. It was this committee which had to decide on the message of Governor Ram Naik on the issue of the questionable election of Ram Govind Chaudhary as Leader of the House by then outgoing Speaker Mata Prasad Pandey. Naik had contended that Pandey had gone against Constitution by declaring the election of Ram Govind Chaudhary as Leader of Opposition as he was not the member of the House.
 
 Naik had conveyed this message through a communication to the office of the Speaker who had referred it to the ruling panel which has not been set up so far, so the decision is pending.
 
 Samajwadi Party spokesperson Rajendra Chaudhary alleged that delay in the constitution of the committees of the House was a conspiracy of denying the Opposition to play its role in the House committees.
 
 
