MUMBAI: A `clash of `keepers' is on cards when   taken on   in the   clash at the   ( ) here from Friday.

 As he leads his team just days after cracking 90 & 143 to fashion Gujarat's Ranji triumph against Mumbai at Indore in the final last Saturday,   will be keen to keep riding the wave in this game too, considering that the man he recently replaced to make a successful international comeback after eight years,  , is now fully fit after suffering from a thigh strain. Ironically, Saha, who will don the `keeping gloves for the ROI team, returns to action in a game which pits him directly against Patel.
 
 At a time when India are scheduled to play five more Tests at home -one against Bangladesh next month at Hyderabad, followed by four against Australia, both the `keepers are likely to jostle hard for their right to stand behind the stumps in the Indian Test team. This `battle within a battle,' thus, should provide for a fascinating `side story' within the game.
 
 On match eve, Parthiv, obviously, was quick to shoot down talk of competition between him and the Bengal stumper. “It's a game be tween Gujarat and the Rest and not between two players.We all know Saha's talented, but it's a game between two teams, and not individual players,“ the 31-year-old said. Beyond these stumpers, all eyes will be on Chennai triple centurion Karun Nair, who must consider himself unlucky to be playing this game in the first place, and not featuring for India in the on-going limited overs series against England, despite his astonishing feat against England in the fifth Test.
 
 With Ajinkya Rahane now having recovered from a broken finger, Nair, who had replaced him, may still struggle to hold to his place in the India XI. An impactful performance here, thus, will definitely buttress the 25year-old batsman's case for a permanent spot.
 
 “Nothing has changed for me personally. I'm still the same. It is just that I get more recognition in the streets,“ said the man who wowed everyone with his unbeaten 303 at Chepauk last month.
 
 
