KOLKATA: The   government is finally set to table the Indian Institute of Management (IIM) Bill, 2017, that has been pending since the erstwhile   government proposed it more than five years ago. The bill aims to grant greater autonomy to the IIMs to manage finance, prepare curricula, introduce variable pay for teachers and hire faculty. 

 They will also be able to confer a degree instead of diploma to students. 
 
 Expressing the government’s intent to table the   at either the Monsoon or Winter session of Parliament, Union HRD minister Prakash Javadekar on Saturday said the country’s premier B-schools will be granted complete financial autonomy after completing seven years. Of the 20 IIMs, 10 are over seven years old. Three others will complete seven years this year. 
 
 While autonomy will enable the institutes to introduce full-time visiting faculty and offer variable pay packages, the decision to withdraw financial aid may prove challenging for some of the newer IIMs that are yet to become brand names like IIM-Calcutta, IIM-Ahmedabad, IIM-Bangalore and IIM-Lucknow. 
 
 According to sources, the modified bill will require each IIM to have an independent review and assessment committee to assess the institute’s performance and award grades. The IIMs will have the power to award degrees for postgraduate and fellowship programmes. Till now, IIMs registered under the Societies Act have been awarding only diplomas. 
 
 In January, the Union cabinet had cleared the bill that will ensure IIMs are board-driven, with the chairperson and director selected by the board. Currently, the boards make recommendations and the government either accepts or rejects them. 
 
 The bill had been controversial when the first draft was put up for public feedback in June 2015 with senior IIM board members saying it may erode the autonomy of these premier institutions. J J Irani, chairman of the IIM-Lucknow board, had even remarked that if the bill was passed in the current form, it could trigger a revolt in the IIM system.
 
 Those concerns seem to have been taken care of following an intervention by the Prime Minister’s Office. The HRD ministry made necessary changes to the draft, addressing the concerns on autonomy. 
 
 
