HYDERABAD: The decision of the   (HRD) ministry to tighten the noose around teacher education has left colleges offering Bachelor of Education (BEd) and Diploma in Education (DEd) courses in the state disappointed.

 As per a new rule, all BEd colleges will now have to compulsorily secure a National Assessment and   ( ) accreditation to be able to remain operational.
 
 This has irked college managements in the state who feel that the move is unreasonable and will unnecessarily add to the costs of running a college.
 
 “Even now running a college for teacher education is not very viable as not many students seek admission in these courses. Things are likely to only get worse from the next academic year as the Na tional   ( ) has said that all the colleges imparting teacher education for five or more years should go in for NAAC accreditation,“ said S  , state president of private BEd and DEd college managements association. He added that not many colleges can afford a NAAC accreditation as it is very expensive. College managements also ruled out the possibility of knocking on the doors of the regional head office in Delhi, for respite, as it would require them to travel all the way to the national capital to get their work done.
 
 Another rule that irked college managements is the council's decision to move all fixed deposits (FD) that colleges deposit as security to single bank and share 50 per cent of the interest with the co uncil. “By the end of this month, we are asked to shift all FD's to a single bank and share the interest with them. I don't understand why we have to share inter est on our money with the co uncil,“ said K Ramdass, na tional general secretary, All India BEd Colleges Associa tion.
 
 According to the NCTE rule, a college with BEd co urse that has an intake of 50 students should deposit a se curity amount of `12 lakh in FD in a bank. If a college also offers DEd courses, they should deposit `24 lakh and `36 lakh if they wish to offer MEd too.
 
 For running important courses such as DEd, BEd, MEd, BPEd, MPEd and others, NCTE gives a one-time recognition to its affiliated colleges at the time of its opening. But, in the new process, they have decided to make it an annual affair.
 
