INDORE: Even after mayor Malini Gaud announced water supply in the city will increase by 180 MLD by May 15, sources in IMC’s water works department confirmed a lot of work was left at Jalood pumping station and the deadline will not be met. 

 Department sources said the supply may increase by the month end.
 
 “It is true the work has been delayed. We expect we will be able to supply extra water by May 25,” said Balram Verma, head of water works department.
 
 Verma could not clearly explain reasons behind the delay. “The high temperature and small technical issues have led to the delay,” Verma said.
 
 During her visit to Jalood station on March 19, Gaud announced that work to install new pumps was in full swing and the city will get 540 MLD of water.
 
 There are two pumps installed at Jalood pumping station. Water from the river is first stored in a well and then pumped out.   has constructed a new well for the pumps. This is deeper than the previous one and will ensure more water can be pumped out in less time. The other pumps will also be shifted to the new well.
 
 IMC officials said the project had cost Rs 7 crore. “We cannot fill most tanks to full capacity in the city due to the lack of motors. With these new ones, the supply will be adequate,” Verma said.
 
 Gaud said the project will also benefit the 29 newly inducted villages in the civic body’s limits. IMC also uses funds granted under AMRUT yojna to lay pipelines in those areas.
 
 IMC is in the process of installing new tanks in the city to benefit the newly inducted villages. In the first phase, construction of 27 tanks will begin.
 
 Civic officials said at present, they can pump around 450 MLD of water of which 350 MLD is supplied in the city.
 
 ((Opposition threatens to carry out protest))
 
 IMC opposition told the ruling party it will start a protest across the city unless the water supply improves. Leader of opposition   said even after spending crores on water supply, IMC is unable to provide enough water.
 
 “We will launch a city wide protest if they do not improve water supply, this shows that the Mayor is not at all serious about the issues of the city,” Alim said.
 
 “We have given the mayor and officials of the water works department an ultimatum. There is an urgent need to take action as the situation gets worse daily. Newly inducted villages at the city limits have no source of proper water supply. Areas like Bhawrasala, Niranjanpur and Talawali Chanda face severe crises,” she added.
 
