MYSURU/MANGALURU: Karnataka chief minister   said on Tuesday that the state government is in favour of hosting   and is ready to issue an ordinance to legalize it. Stating that the kambala case is pending in the high court, the CM said: “It is a rural sport prevalent in the coast. The case is coming up for hearing and we are waiting for the court proceedings.I'm seeking the opinion of the law department. If necessary, we are ready to promulgate an ordinance.“

 Refusing to draw a parallel between kambala and  , the CM said the kambala issue will be discussed in the state budget session starting February 6.
 
 Union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, who is in Mangaluru, said the Union government will extend the same support to Karnataka as it did to Tamil Nadu on its jallikattu ordinance.
 
 Prasad told reporters at Mangaluru airport that Karnataka must clear obstacles for kambala, the way Tamil Nadu did for jallikattu. “The Centre will respond if Karnataka takes these steps. The Centre respects folk traditions and is open to the decision of the state government on kambala,“ he said.
 
 A BJP delegation led by Dakshina Kannada MP Nalin Kumar Kateel presented a memorandum to the minister in this regard. Union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad is in Mangaluru to attend the Digi Dhan Mela of Niti Aayog on Wednesday.
 
 Referring to Siddaramaiah's statement on an ordinance, Kateel said at a meeting of kambala organizers and fans, “I welcome the decision and will do my best to get the Centre's approval.“
 
 He exhorted people of undivided Dakshina Kannada district to take part in the January 28 protest at Moodbidri, seeking revocation of ban on kambala. “The court adjourned the kambala hearing to January 30. The Lok Sabha session will begin on January 30 and the state session on February 6. Against this backdrop, a kambala protest will help build pressure and lead to discussions in the Lok Sabha and legislature,“ Kateel said.
 
 People should fight unitedly for kambala, he said, adding a meeting of leaders of all religions, political parties and organizations will be held in Mangaluru soon. He suggested forging a human chain to create awareness on the issue.
 
 Former minister B Nagaraj Shetty will hold meetings of kambala fans in Mumbai and Bengaluru. Dakshina Kannada District Kannada Sahitya Parishat president Pradeep Kumar Kalkura said the 21st district Kannada Sahitya Sammela, to be held in Ujire from January 27, will adopt a resolution against the kambala ban.
 
