LUCKNOW:   of a few hours on Monday left most roads of the city water-logged, while clogged   were seen overflowing in almost all the congested localities on Tuesday. Most of the low-lying areas were drowned in ankle-deep water within a couple of hours. 

 Lucknow Municipal Corporation’s lack of preparedness for the rainy season came to the fore in the very first pre-monsoon shower. As per the schedule, de-silting and dredging of all drains and big nullahs should be completed till end of May as expected time of monsoon arrival is June 15. All preparations should be done to avoid   even during light showers ahead of monsoon. 
 
 In a reality check, TOI found that in Qaiserbagh, Lalbagh, Chinhat, Alambagh, Aashiana, Jankipuram and Trveninagar, de-silting of drains has not begun yet.
 
 In Nabiullah Road, Baas Mandi, Mahanagar extension, Kursi Road and Aliganj where the exercise is being carried out, silt removed from drains is left on the sides which either flows back into the drains during rainfall making the place prone to water-logging or spreads all over the roads.
 
 “I live in a congested locality and all drains in the vicinity are choked so even a few minutes of downpour causes water-logging and drains start spilling over,” said  , a resident of Sunderbagh, adding that the condition is pathetic with all garbage flowing on roads, even after the rain water has flown out out.
 
 Residents of densely populated areas of Old City, Khadra, Aminabad, Lalbagh and Qaiserbagh face a more difficult situation because drainage there is already in a poor condition.
 
 “Drains are either too narrow or there are no drains in most of the areas and even a little rain causes severe water-logging so authorities should at least try to clean the drains before monsoon so that there is at least some space for water to flow out,” said Nikhil Kakkar, a resident of Tehseenganj.
 
 Another resident of River Bank colony Rakesh Saxena rued, “For the past two weeks the mud and rubbish taken out of the drains piled on sides after rainfall and after the Monday night shower it mixed with water and started to emanate unbearable stench.”
 
 Residents across the city had a tough time dealing with waterlogging, while LMC officials claimed de-silting of drains is being conducted properly and most of them have been cleaned. “We have assigned 10 extra sanitary workers for each ward to de-silt drains and most of the deep drains have already been cleaned, while rest we will be cleaned before the end of this month,” said P K Singh of LMC.
 
