PUNE: Those who have heard   roaring in the city   over the last few months and are eager to see them may just have to wait a little longer.

 Officials at the   in Katraj said the only pair of pure-bred   in the state will be put on display in a week’s time.
 
 The lions Subhi and Tejas would occupy one of the tiger enclosures here, officials said.
 
 According to zoo director Rajkumar Jadhav, “The lions were under quarantine since they arrived. They have been cleared of the quarantine and are now in the process of being moved to their new enclosure. We have two tiger enclosures at the zoo, one of which will now be occupied by the lions. We aim to finish constructing their new enclosure within 2017”.
 
 Initially, the lions were to be put on display around the Republic Day weekend. The date was then postponed to Valentine’s Day. They are now slated to be exhibited in a week.
 
 Asked about the reasons behind the delay, Jadhav said, “We should not be hasty in moving them as transport to a new location itself can be quite stressful. We have to make sure they have adapted to their new environment before being opened to the public. As soon as the lions move to the enclosure, they will be on display.”
 
 There were also reports about the lions receiving some wounds during transport. “A lion’s skin is delicate, and these animals are bound to have different reactions to being transported. However, the wounds were minor and superficial – nothing out of the ordinary. They are in good health,” he said.
 
 The six-and-a-half year old lions were brought to the city from Sakkar Baug Zoological Garden in Junagadh, Gujarat, at the end of December 2016, three years after the move was first proposed. They were under quarantine since. The Junagadh facility had received four exotic bird species in the trade.
 
 Initially, the lions were to be put on display around the Republic Day weekend. The date was then postponed to Valentine’s Day. They are now slated to be exhibited in a week.
 
