VARANASI: Artisans of four famed   (GI) tagged products of eastern UP have gone to take part in the 22nd International Engineering & Technology Fair (IETF) at  , New Delhi for giving live demonstration of craftsmanship.

 “The artisans from Varanasi, Mirzapur and Azamgarh districts are giving live demonstration of their crafts including Banaras Gulabi Meenakari Craft, Varanasi Wooden Lacquerware & Toys, Nizamabad Balack Pottery and Mirzapur Handmade Dari at the Make in India Pavilion of the three-day fair that began on Thursday,” Rajni Kant of Human Welfare Association, who accompanied and facilitated the artisans, told to TOI over phone. “Though there are 85 GI certified products put on display from across the country, only four products of eastern UP have got opportunity for the live demonstration of craftsmanship,” he said. 
 
 “We are glad to get the opportunity of giving live demonstration of the crafts of our region,” said a master craftsman of Gulabi Meenakari Kunjbihari Singh adding that it would be greatly helpful in promotion of the craft internationally. Presently Varanasi has about 100 artisans engaged in this traditional craft of pink enameling. About 50-60% products of pink enameling are exported to Europe, America and Gulf countries via Jaipur, Mumbai, Bangalore and Delhi.
 
 The other participating artisans are Shiv Ratan Prajapati of Nizamabad black pottery, Dharmaraj of Wooden Lacquerware & Toys, and Pyarelal Maurya of Mirzapur handmade dari. Black pottery of Nazamabad is one of the oldest industries in Azamgarh district, and it contributes substantially to the economic life of the people. The potters make tea-pots, sugar-bowls and other decorative articles and statues of Gods and Goddesses. The distinctive colours can be credited to the process in which the articles are fired in enclosed kiln with rice husks. The smoke generated in the process imparts the black colour. Designs are etched on the dry surface, which is then filled with silver paint that is made from zinc and mercury. To lend a glossy look to the products, some vessels are coated with lacquer when they are hot.
 
 The area of Mirzapur handmade dari covers nine districts including Varanasi, Mirzapur, Bhadohi, Sonbhadra, Chandauli, Jaunpur, Ghazipur, Allahabad and Kaushambi. According to Pyarelal, about 50,000 artisans are involved in this work, and about 60-70% of the product was exported to different countries. The tradition of handmade dari made of cotton and wool has been continuing since Mughal era. Similarly, the craft of wooden toys is also an old tradition of the city, and about 1000 families are engaged in this work.
 
 The eastern UP boasts of having eight GI products Banaras Brocade and Sarees, Handmade Carpet of Bhadohi, Banaras Gulabi Meenakari Craft, Varanasi Wooden Lacquerware & Toys, Mirzapur Handmade Dari, Nizamabad Black Pottery, Banaras Metal Repouse Craft, and Varanasi Glass Beads. Three more products including Soft Stone undercut work, Ghazipur Jute Wall Hanging, and Chunar Sand Stone are also in the pipeline to get GI tag. The National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD), Lucknow, has been providing its support in getting GI certification for the products.
 
