KOLHAPUR: The civic body is going to make provision for funds to revamp its  , currently lying in dilapidated state.

 The condition of the hospital run by the   (KMC) has gone from bad to worse in the past few years. Last year as well the KMC assured funds to strengthen the structure of the hospital and improve facilities for the patients, but nothing happened.
 
 Recently, corporators cutting across party lines had submitted a petition of demands to the municipal commissioner P Siva Sankar and revamping of the Panchganga hospital was on top of their priority list.
 
 Sankar, while talking to TOI, said, “The demand for funds will be addressed in the upcoming budget of the KMC that will be presented in the last week of March.”
 
 The corporators had complained that the hospital is not equipped with proper equipment and the health-care staff is inadequate. As per the petition, the hospital needs a couple of laparoscopy machines, incubators for new-born and   facility. The citizens earlier had demanded that the staff of gynaecology department should be increased and child specialists should also be hired.
 
 Kiran Shirale, local corporator, said, “The hospital infrastructure is in pathetic condition and the issue needs to be addressed immediately. The hospitals run by the KMC are for the poor as the cost of the treatment is low as compared to private hospitals. We have been assured by the civic authorities that substantial funds will be allocated to revamp the hospital in the next one year.”
 
 It is learnt that the health department is preparing to table a proposal in the standing committee for issuing procurement order for the machineries to be installed in various health care facilities of the KMC.
 
 Last year in June, members of the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation's standing committee visited the Panchganga Hospital following complaints by the citizens about the lack of equipment and adequate healthcare staff.
 
 The members took officials of the health department to the hospital. Chairperson of the then standing committee  , had said, “The health officials said there is a need for two laparoscopy machines, incubator for newborns, and an ICU facility. More gynaecologists and child specialists are needed to cater to the increasing number of pregnancies.”
 
 He had added, “I am going to call for a meeting with the municipal commissioner and other officials to discuss plans to improve the health care infrastructure in the city. I have asked officials to draft and table a proposal to the standing committee seeking funds to procure equipment and machinery.”
 
 The corporators had also visited the   and held officials responsible for neglect. The corporators forced health officials to draft a plan for revamping the hospital.
 
 
