  : Though an arch rival of MP chief minister  ,   national vice-president   has now come out to defend Chouhan over the rumours regarding he being shifted from the state to the Centre. 

 "BJP will contest the next assembly election of MP under the leadership of CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan. There is no question of change in leadership in the state," tweeted Vijayavargiya on Thursday. He had once targeted his own government saying, "Ills that come with power are slowly becoming apparent." The firebrand leader played a crucial role in BJP's triumph in last Haryana assembly elections and he tried to cash in on his new-found stature to challenge Chouhan as his replacement in MP. He, however, is a foe-turned-friend nowadays. Though party leaders still recall his differences with state BJP chief Nandkumar Singh, a close confidant of Shivraj Singh, sudden change in his stance is being seen as a result of party's advice to him to be "calm and cooperative".
 
 Vijayvargiya also targeted the media, saying rumours of change in leadership were "spread intentionally" by a section of media. He also rubbished the reports highlighted in social media and said Chouhan will not be taking up any ministerial post in the Modi government. "A section of the media, as a part of conspiracy, is trying to intentionally fuel rumours about a change in the leadership in MP, which is baseless," he tweeted. Vijayvargiya in fact joined some senior leaders and cabinet ministers in favour of CM Chouhan after a section of BJP leaders hit out at another faction of disgruntled leaders in the party, alleging that reports of change in leadership in MP were spread by some insiders in New Delhi and Bhopal. "It was after parliamentary committee meet in New Delhi when Shivraj had met BJP president Amit Shah that rumours of party giving him new assignment spread like fire ," said a senior BJP leader. 
 
 CM also calmly reacted, saying, "These are rumours and one should not give any importance to them." Incidentally, Vijayavargiya has come out in his defence at a time when the BJP is grappling with Vyapam, ISI spy ring case and other issues.
 
