PUDUCHERRY: A committee constituted to probe the death of   during dialysis at the government-run   and Research Institute on Friday inspected the unit, drew samples of the   and questioned staff. 

 The samples collected by a panel of nephrologists including Dr Sreejith Parameswaran, Dr K Kumar and R Murali, executive engineer from electricity department, will be sent to central laboratories in Puducherry and Hyderabad for analysis. "We want to see if there is any contamination or imbalances in the fluids used in the dialyser, causing sudden cardiac arrest," said an official. 
 
 Around noon, on Thursday, there was a power outage in the unit where patients were undergoing dialysis. The power supply was restored seven minutes later, but two women, Suseela, 73, and Amsa, 55, developed complications and died immediately while another patient, Ganesan, who was rushed to the intensive care unit, died within a few minutes. On Friday, the bodies of the patients were handed over to relatives after postmortem. 
 
 The panel, which is expected to submit its report before March 13, will examine three probable causes.   sources said the machine raised an alarm when there was an outage and again when the supply was restored. When the members of the panel turned on the machine during inspection it worked. "Yet, there is a chance of patients getting electrocuted. The solutions used to clear toxins from the blood are all conductors of electricity," said nephrologist Dr Rajan Ravichandran of MIOT Hospitals. 
 
 The other probability is a chemical imbalance in the fluids used for cleansing, which can lead to complications and cardiac arrest. In a dialysis unit, RO and UV water are pushed into the dialysers at high pressure. "There is also a chance of air entering the blood vessels causing a fatal arrest, a condition called air embolism. This can happen when a circuit is reconnected," said nephrologist Dr Georgi Abraham from Madras Medical Mission. "Contamination can also cause intra-vascular hemolysis, which occurs when the red blood cells are lysed within the blood vessel," he said. 
 
 If the first two options are ruled out, doctors say there could be an error in the unit design - the way in which electrical circuits or water inlets are connected. "We'll know when the reports come in. But the accident will be a lesson," said Dr Ravichandran.
 
