NEW DELHI: The   will deliver its verdict on Friday on the plea of 
    in the 
  .

 A bench of Justices Dipak Misra, R Banumathi and Ashok Bhushan, which had reserved its order on March 27 after holding a marathon hearing for more than 44 days, will deliver the verdict at 2 pm.
 
 The convicts — Vinay Sharma (23), Akshay Thakur (31), Mukesh (29) and Pawan Gupta (22) — were awarded death sentence by a trial court in September 2013. On March 13, 2014, the Delhi high court upheld their conviction and sentence. All the convicts then approached the 
  and the matter was pending in the top court since then.
 
 Considering the complexity of the case and the public passion involved, the   had in April last year appointed two senior advocates, Raju Ramachandran and Sanjay Hegde, as amicus curiae to defend the convicts despite having lawyers already. Both the counsel urged the court that the convicts should not be awarded the extreme punishment and pleaded for their lives.
 
 A substantial part of the 
  was confined to the quantum of sentence for the convicts during which their lawyers and the amicus curiae pointed out various inconsistencies in the probe. They contended that brutality of a crime could not be the sole reason for bringing a crime under the rarest of rare category warranting death sentence. 
 
 “Even if the brutal facts of this case meet the court’s standard of the rarest of rare crime, it is submitted that there is simply not enough evidence to hold that all four of the accused are irredeemable criminals with no mitigating circumstances to save them from the gallows. While the crime was brutal, the evidence is not conclusive that all the accused participated in the brutality in equal measure,” advocate Hegde had said.
 
 Senior advocate Sidharth Luthra, appearing for the police, however, said no mercy should be shown to the convicts and they deserved death sentence. “It is submitted that the test of rarest of rare is fully applicable in the present case and looking at the crime, as also looking at the collective cry of society as also the trauma caused to the victim’s family who have suffered the agony of the brutalisation of their young daughter, and consequent death, demonstrate that it is a case for death penalty alone,” he had said.
 
