If you often travel in a state transport (ST) bus on Nagpur-Armori route, chances are you may bump into a tribal girl crawling like a toddler. Looking at her shrunken limbs smeared in dust, one may get overwhelmed with pity. But, make any reference to her condition and she will reply, “I am very happy with life.” Undeterred by polio, lack of facilities and failures, 26-year-old tribal Shalini Istam from Armori in Gadchiroli district has been fighting odds with courage and optimism since the age of six.  Generally, with no one to accompany her, she has been travelling to Nagpur alone in State Transport (ST) buses sometimes to appear in compitetive exams or complete documentation since last two years. “I haven’t passed in a single exam, but I am not discouraged by failures. I will keep trying,” she says. On Wednesday, TOI met Shalini during one of her visits though this time her friend Dipti Usendi came along as she too had some work at the Nagpur University Exam Section. “I had come for diploma certificate. We will take a city bus to Kanhan and return home tomorrow morning,” she says, emphazising that she likes to travel a lot.  Dipti says that at home Shalini is famous for her speed while riding her tricycle. “I got a tricycle through a government scheme. I use it to spread awareness among the handicapped in Gadchiroli.” Since Class XI, Shalini has been doing all her work on her own. Her father Gopal died in 2011. He used to sell firewood but was addicted to liquor. Mother Gopika (45) works as a farm labourer and can’t accompany her always. Her sister Jasundar is married and works as tailor in Kondala.  “I want to write autobiography when I achieve sucesss,” she says. Though a gentle smile and coyness persists on Shalini’s face, her journey has not been all that easy.  Shalini’s village had only two teachers when she was yet to start her schooling. “At 6, one of the teachers Vasant Sahare admitted me to the school. However, the other teacher opposed my admission expressing concern over my punctuality. It used to take just 15 minutes from home. My parents used to drop me on foot till Class IV. “From V to VII, I studied at Wairagad which was 12 kms from home. It was a school for the handicapped and had hostel facility. But, I had no wheelchair,” she says. After passing SSC with 60%, she completed her HSC from Armori. “This school was a regular one and I studied with normal kids. Nobody ever made fun of me. I got due respect from all.” Savitribai Phule is my role model. “Because of her I am speaking to you,” she says. Ask her about her future plans and she reiterates her fascination for travelling. “Abhi to pura India ghoomna hai.” 