NEW DELHI: Delhi’s   perhaps went through their worst phase in the past two years, while traffic congestion remains a daily bane for commuters with hardly any new decongestion projects taking off. To be fair to the   Government, it has pushed for early completion of many projects begun before it came to power. These include monitoring of the Signature Bridge project and giving a fillip to the signal-free corridor between Vikaspuri and Meera Bagh. In the case of the Vikaspuri-Wazirabad corridor, it brought down project cost by about Rs 400 crore. The government also implemented its decision to pull down the BRT corridor.

 However, amid all this, the city’s roads crumbled visibly. A proposal to redesign 10 roads was floated by PWD minister Satyendar Jain in late 2015. The changes envisioned uniform road width, space for non-motorised vehicles and footpath improvement. A year later, only drawings for these roads have been prepared. Ashwani Kumar, the new PWD secretary, after inspecting two of the earmarked stretches, has now raised questions about some of the provisions, including a separate lane for non-motorised vehicles.
 
 “The designs submitted for these stretches were not satisfactory in the context of their impact on the existing traffic scenario,” said Kumar. “Reducing the carriageways for the sake of creating a multi-utility zone may adversely impact traffic flow. I will meet traffic police to discuss the finer aspects of the proposals.”
 
 The remaining roads are in no better shape. Relaying work has been delayed by almost two years due to frequent changes in government policy. First it was decided to only fill in potholes, but when the government realised that the situation was worsening, instructions were given to repair roads. This was taken up in the middle of 2016, but the pace has been inordinately slow and despite a deadline of March-end, very little improvement can be seen on ground.
 
 A majority of road projects sanctioned in the past two years involve the central government. They await either clearance of or assistance from the state government. Phase III of Barapullah elevated corridor, which includes a bridge, is a case in point; it is stuck due to problem over land acquisition. “The state government has to acquire a particular plot without which it is impossible to build the foundation for the bridge,” said a source in PWD. Also, a W-point overbridge at ITO and an underpass connecting Mehrauli with IGI Airport have been sanctioned by the centre, but await the state’s green signal.
 
 Sources hinted at movement in some projects in the current year, with road relaying work to finish in a few months and certain other projects for decongestion likely to get the government’s nod. The PWD minister has also sanctioned a major study on how many foot overbridges are needed in the city and where. The BRT plan too will be recast with provisions for five half-submerged and humped subways on the stretch.
 
 
