Actor   was one of the popular actors in TV more than a decade ago. 

 With his situational humour and mimicry, he often left the audience in splits through his shows Jagathy vs Jagathy and Comedy Time.
 After a hiatus, the actor is now back to the small screen as an anchor of a show titled Fun Limited, which showcases comedy scenes from movies. His recent video on social media, pledging support to actor Dileep, has also gone viral. Jayachandran gets candid about his break from the limelight, his relationship with Dileep and his current show.
 
 
 
 I was smitten by films right from my childhood, when actors like Jayan, Sukumaran and Soman were the A-listers. Mohanlal and Mammootty were only rising stars then. I also dreamt about becoming an actor but being the only child of a conventional middle class family, my parents wanted me to pursue a job.
 
  Later, I took up mimicry as it was the easiest route to get into films. I along with a few talented artistes formed the mimics troupe Stars of Cochin as part of that. The troupe was a big success during festival seasons with shows every day across the State. Because of continuous shows, I used to come home only after months and hence never got the time to entertain thoughts about getting into films. That was when private channels were launched in Malayalam. Fortunately, I got an offer to anchor a comic show titled Narmalahari, which featured comedy scenes from films.
 
  After that I got to host Jagathy vs Jagathy that showcased comedy scenes of actor Jagathy Sreekumar. I hosted the show with impromptu dialogues and mimicry acts.
 
 With the reception being overwhelmingly positive, the show was re-titled Comedy Time, which was the first phone-in comedy show. Apart from comedy scenes, we also included requests for scenes through letters and phone calls. The show became successful even though it was aired on the channel after 10 pm from 2001 to 2009.
 
 I was glad when KJ Yesudas dropped in as a guest for Christmas special episode in 2006. It was the first television appearance for him as a guest in a comedy show. He doesn’t usually attend such programmes but decided to come as he loved the format of the show. Those were the days I felt like a star.
 
 
 
 Because of the success of the Comedy Time, the present crew of Fun Limited approached me to host the show. The show has completed more than 100 episodes and is getting good reviews. Though I have acted in films, people still identify me as host of TV shows.
 
 
 
 I got the call to do a comedy scene in the adult film Rasaleela while I was at the peak of TV career. Being an artiste who wanted to badly be in movies, I only cared about the role. But after seeing me, the director asked me if I could do the hero’s role in the film. I asked my parents and they told me to look at it as just acting in any other movie. That’s how I became Shakeela’s hero.
 
 The movie was just like any other film; it had action, comedy, sentiments, romance and songs. I had also choreographed the fight scenes for the movie. I never felt ashamed to do the movie because it offered me an opportunity to be the hero in the film, which was my dream. After that, I did Chirikudukka in 2002 and later Chanthupottu, Drishyam, Memories and Lakshyam. 
 
 
 
 Dileep is someone I admire. I believe that he is innocent and will be back. I was hurt by certain comments on social media that alleged that he had tried to side-line me from films. That’s what forced me to post a video revealing the truth.
 I got a lot of good roles to prove my acting skills but later all of them weredenied. The directors of these movies even told me that Dileep had asked them to do so. Somewhere, even I felt that it was the truth. However, once I met Dileep in person and asked him why he plotted against me, his response shattered me. With tears in his eyes, he looked at me shocked and hugged me. I got all my answers from him and that was the moment I got to know the person Dileep is.
 
 I had asked for chances to many superstars but none of them offered me. It was only Dileep who supported me by including me in the cast of his films. He used to call me up even though I am no star and ask if I would like to join his film. I don’t like to believe that a humble person like him would conspire to commit a heinous crime like that.
 
 As far as I am concerned, I wouldn’t have faced a movie camera again in my life if it wasn’t for Dileep.
 That said, I am also against the people mentioning the actress as a victim. That word should be avoided at all cost, if you ask me.
 
 
