CHENNAI: The   is moving closer to building   proposed as part of   of   A detailed project report has been submitted and a tender will soon be floated to find a contractor.
The proposal to build two buildings after demolishing the old ones and integrate them with the steel and glass terminals currently being used was announced when the new terminals were inaugurated in 2013.
 
 Airport director G Chandramouli said, “We will be holding meeting with stakeholders [airlines and terminal users] to finalise details.“ The buildings, AAI hopes, will help push the aiport's passenger capacity to 30 million from the existing 23 million.
 
 The old domestic building is lying unused while the old international building has been integrated with the new building and is being used as an international arrival. As the phase II expansion was taking time, the authorities demolished a wall, expanded the arrival area and installed more baggage conveyors for international passengers a year ago.
 
 Sources said that the design of the new building would be in sync with the steel and glass buildings that were opened in 2013.
 
 The project is expected to cost more than `2,000 crore along with a walkalator in front of the terminal buildings and a few airside work.In July last year, the deadline for completing the work was set for 2020-21. AAI is planning the new ilding so that the airport building so that the airport will have more space to handle an expected increase in passengers due to the proposed increase in the number of flights expected due to cross-runway operations, rapid exit taxiways and proposed regional air connectivity scheme.
 
 Chandramouli said that a Chandramouli said that a few projects on the airside like straightening of a taxiway would also be taken up in the coming years.
 
 Minister of state for civil aviation Jayant Sinha during a visit to Chennai in November last year told an audience of members of a chamber of commerce that the government was looking at a policy to triple capacity of airports in the future. Regional carriers will connect Chennai with smaller cities, he added.
 
 AAI recently spruced up the international arrival and the new domestic terminals with art work and paintings.
 
