PUNE: If   are an ode to love what better time for the sweet-smelling vividly coloured blossoms to bloom than February, the month of love.

 After a lull in exports and sales in the domestic market last year -- right from around Valentine's Day period last year and post demonetization in November-- rose exports are set to bloom in all their glory ahead of V-Day.
 
 From a high of 16.5 million rose stems exported during February 2015, exports had dipped to 14 million flower stems during the same period last year. But industry sources said that international and domestic demand for roses has once again picked up in the run up to the V-Day and the ensuing wedding season.
 
 Praveen Sharma, president,  , said the upcoming Valentine’s Day period has once again brought cheer to the growers around the country. “The Indian flower markets had witnessed a lull since November 8, following demonetization, when we missed the first wedding season of the month. The domestic market usually picks up after November, but this year, it picked up from January 15. Valentine’s Day will be followed by lots of weddings. This means that the flower markets have finally revived and growers are busy with domestic as well as   shipments,” said Sharma.
 
 And exporters are already looking ahead to a rosy future. “This year we hope to export more than 16 million flowers stems,” he added.
 
 As per the data from Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority (APEDA), rose exports in terms of quantity witnessed a considerable slump last fiscal. Export of fresh cut roses and rose buds from the country dipped from 2,166 metric tonne in 2014-15 to 1,978 metric tonne in 2015-16.
 
 Sharma said that India’s major export shipments for Valentine’s Day this year are heading to the UK, which accounts for 35% of the country’s rose exports, Japan (19%), Australia (18%), followed by Malaysia, Singapore and Holland.
 
 A prominent exporter in the state said that low rose production in Africa this fiscal due to an unfavourable climate in the region has had big players like Europe, Australia, Japan, Malaysia and Singapore demanding good quantity of Indian roses before V-day.
 
 P K Sondhi, director, Meilland International, a French rose breeding company, said that demand from regions like Europe, which is the highest importer of roses from across the world, has been particularly high for Indian roses. “The severe winter in Europe had resulted in slowdown of local production, leading to firmer demand for Indian roses during Valentine’s Day. Rose production in India has also received a boost by about 15%, due to the warm winter, while exports are expected to rise by 20%,” he said.
 
 Narendra Patil, vice president,  , a grower and exporter of fresh cut flowers, said that this year the Valentine’s Day falls on a week day, which is expected to push rose exports up. “Last year, V-Day fell on a Sunday, which had slowed down the market. Exports of roses are therefore expected to rise by around 20% to 30% in comparison to the same period last year,” he said.
 
 Patil added that the low rose production in Africa may also have played a role in pushing up exports from India this season. “Africa has huge rose farms. Even if a single farm falters on production, it tends to create a shortage in the export market,” added Patil.
 
