PUNE: The BJP’s desperation to grab power in the Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal corporations was evident from its list of candidates declared on Friday. The list was loaded with candidates who had only recently made the switch from other parties or those who were related to BJP leaders.

 Party loyalists, seething at having been overlooked, made it a point to emphasise the work they had done for the BJP for decades. At the party’s election office, some workers threw ink on the poster of city BJP chief Yogesh Gogawale and shouted slogans against city MP Anil Shirole, who reached the office to try and smooth ruffled feathers. However, the workers gheraoed Shirole and other leaders, alleging that the party had ditched them by nominating “outsiders”. They also questioned the BJP giving a ticket to Shirole’s son, Siddharth.
 
 “What is difference between the BJP and other parties? They have imported candidates and kept us aside. All these years we have worked to build the party and when the time has come to enjoy the fruits of our labour, there are other people figuring in the party list,” said senior BJP worker  , who sat on a hunger strike in front of the party office after he was denied a ticket. 
 
 Nine of the ten sitting corporators from Pune, who had recently switched over to the BJP, were nominated by the party. Even some former corporators who switched loyalties, including Dilip Tupe (NCP) and   (MNS), are in the BJP’s list. 
 
 The BJP also nominated NCP MLC Anil Bhosale’s wife Reshma, a sitting NCP corporator, after her party denied her a ticket at the last moment. Interestingly, she got the BJP ticket without even joining the party. Other outsiders who made it to the BJP list include former Congress corporator and deputy mayor Prasanna Jagtap, Abhijit Kadam, a relative of veteran Congress leader Patangrao Kadam, former MNS chief Prakash Dhore and the wife of NCP corporator Dinesh Dhadwe.
 
 Gogawale put up a brave front when he said, “We are confident of mitigating the anger among our workers. The list of candidates has been finalized only after consultation with the state leadership.”
 
 Shirole, when asked about the ticket given to his son, said, “He is an active party worker and has been serving the party for around ten years. He has functioned at various levels for the party, including in the youth wing and as secretary of the state unit. The ticket has been given based on his work.”
 
 In Pimpri Chinchwad, the BJP denied a ticket to women’s wing chief Shaila Molak and nominated   and Jyoti Bharati, former chiefs of the NCP and Congress women’s wings respectively. Also figuring in the BJP list were Rahul Jadhav (MNS), Nitin Kalaje and Nitin Landge (NCP), Seema Savale and Suresh Mhetre (Shiv Sena), who had switched loyalties to the BJP just before the nominations. Interestingly, the BJP in Pimpri Chinchwad is already dominated by leaders who originally came from the NCP.
 
