Madurai: The caste-driven politics in Tamil Nadu is going through a new phase, where the performance and personal track record of the candidate rather than his or her caste is going to be the deciding factor. This is true as far as O Panneerselvam and V K Sasikala are concerned as both hail from the Thevar community whose leaders are happy to see the former gaining acceptance beyond the caste barrier.

 In the early 1970s, the anti-Congress votes of the Mukulathor community, otherwise known as the Thevars, went en bloc to the DMK. On his part, AIADMK founder MGR banked on this caste factor when he entered politics. Many of the Thevars voted for him and he continued to hold sway over them. Then Jayalalithaa followed suit, points out senior journalist B Thirumalai. “But now when Tamil Nadu is forced to decide between two people from the same community, it is the personal track record of the person and not the caste that has become the clinching factor”, he says.
 
 He said that though allegations were being hurled by Sasikala supporters against Paneerselvam and he was being called a traitor, his loyalty to his leader was unflinching. This could be noted from the fact that Jayalalithaa kept him seated by her side for the past 15 years at all major meetings. However, Sasikala departed from this tradition and made him sit with the MLAs at their meeting.   has also been able to garner support from people of all communities. The MLA from Sholavandan reserved constituency, Manickam, was among the first to extend support to him. V Maitreyan, another of his backers, is a Brahmin while V C Arukutty is a Gounder, he said.
 
 Thirumalai says that Paneerselvam has proved that a people’s leader should be egoless through his activities during the jallikattu protests and after. ``Imagine the anger that Jayalalithaa and Karunanidhi would have shown had they been turned back from an event,’’ he said. ``Even when he was asked about people nicknaming him ``mixture mama’’in an interview, he said that he had come into public life and should be ready to face criticism. This is a new face of a politician that Tamil Nadu is seeing,’’ he added.
 
 The coordinator of the polit bureau of Thevar Peravai, T Harappa, says O Panneerselvam has transcended the caste barrier through his good work while Sasikala and her family have only damaged the community’s reputation. ``It was his outstanding performance as chief minister and simplicity that won him support from all communities. This is a good sign,’’ he says. Harappa says Sasikala’s stature is built on her caste and clan which has only harmed the image of the community. ``People look at us as if we are tyrants which does not help the people of this community’’ he said.
 
 V K Kavikumar, general secretary, Mukulathor Ezhirchi Kazhagam , says that OPS has successfully managed to overcome the caste factor and is being seen as a leader of the Tamil community. ``This is something that is good for the development of the state,’’ he said. The jallikattu protest went beyond caste and creed and the students’ protest was handled democratically by OPS, This would not have been the case had Sasikala been in his place, ``because we know who manipulated the police in the last moment,’’ he said.
 
 
