PANAJI: While the   (BJP)   election has given more  ,   and  , it promises to explore legal options to see relaxation/amendment on the order of the apex court banning sale of liquor within 500 metres of the highways. 

 The BJP manifesto, which was released by the Maharashtra CM Devendra Fadnavis, also promises to give industry status to tourism.
 
 While the opposition parties have promised to clampdown on casinos, the BJP manifesto is silent on casinos in the state. 
 
 The BJP manifesto was released by the Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, but defence minister Manohar Parrikar, under whose guidance manifesto it was prepared, was not present at the function. Chief minister Laxmikant Parsekar, deputy chief minister Francis D’Souza, BJP state president Vinay Tendulkar, Union Ayush minister Shripad Naik and South Goa MP Narendra Sawaikar were present at the release.
 
 From the building a sustainable eco-friendly mining transport corridor, policy to regulate traditional occupations such as sand, laterite, stone quarrying, review and revising Tenancy Act amendments, introducing farmers market at multiple locations, replicating integrated school complex projects at other locations in Goa, construction of new bridges, plan and execute piped gas connection across the state and benefit of all social sector schemes to increase periodically by linking them to inflation index are some of the key points included in the manifesto. But the document is silent on the medium of instruction issue.
 
 When asked about the BJP stand on casinos, Parsekar said it was a Congress gift to the state and the BJP government has not entertained casinos in the state.
 
 He also said that a preliminary survey has been done to find out number of liquor shops around the national highway. “First and foremost we have to accept that we are a tourist state and many restaurants will be affected. In Goa, it is not just a liquor shops, most of the restaurants have the facilities. Such restaurants number over 2,500 and we are exploring all possible measures to give them protection,” Parsekar added.
 
 Speaking to reporters, Fadnavis said the BJP manifesto has been prepared by giving serious thought as the BJP would again form the government after the elections. The maifesto has what we can do in the next five years, but other parties have promised the sky as they know that they don’t have to implement the manifesto as they know that they will not form the government, he said.
 
 “Manifesto has been prepared keeping in mind that Goa will be made a model state in the country,” Fadnavis said and added that the BJP manifesto touches all sections of the society. “I appeal to the people of the state to give 2/3 majority in the elections. When elections come, mind games are played to try and polarize the votes, but if you see five years ago, the BJP never indulged in polarization and takes all sections of the society together, the BJP has given a clean government and it will continue to do so in next five years,” the Maharashtra CM added.
 
 When asked whether he would promote casinos in Maharashtra to boost tourism, Fadnavis dodged the question and said that he will answer this question in Maharashtra.
 
