PUNE: Taking cue from the mounting protests in   in support of Jallikattu, the   unit in Pune has resumed agitation to lift the ban on bullock cart racing in Maharashtra. 

 Sena MP from Maval Shrirang Barne, who on Saturday led an agitation in the city, has demanded that chief minister Devendra Fadnavis intervene and seek a President’s ordinance to lift the ban on bullock cart racing. Animal activists in Pune, however, are up in arms against this. 
 
 Shirur MP Shivajirao Adhalrao Patil told TOI that bullock cart racing holds the same significance in Maharashtra as Jallikattu does in Tamil Nadu. “The Supreme Court banned bullock cart racing on May 7, 2014, and it was initiated by the UPA-II. Since then, many farmers and I have been fighting against this in the SC,” he said.
 
 He added that Fadnavis should take his cue from Tamil Nadu chief minister O Panneerselvam. “The CM should take the initiative and talk to Prime Minsiter   and request the race restarts in Maharashtra,” Patil said, adding that the ordinance should come from nobody less than the President, as if it is only passed by the Governor, it will not stand.
 
 “I have been raising the issue in the Parliament, and now Shiv Sena has started a full-blown agitation. It started on Saturday from Chakan; the party will now organize several morchas, public meetings and rallies. It has started from western Maharashtra and Pune and will spread across the state,” he added.
 
 Pune-based animal activists, meanwhile, vehemently opposed the agitation to lift the ban on Jallikattu and bullock cart racing, and said they would challenge the Jallikattu ordinance in the Supreme Court. 
 
 They said the decision by the Tamil Nadu government to issue an ordinance to permit Jallikattu after bowing down to public pressure is a complete mockery of the judicial system and will lead to anarchy.
 
 “We as activists approach the court for many reasons and so do crores of litigants. If orders of the courts are overturned by decision of majority, nothing will remain. I had first stopped bullock cart races in 1980 through the court of JMFC. In 2014, the Supreme Court banned both Jallikattu and bullock cart races in Maharashtra. If these races start again, there will be no voice for animals,” said founder president of Sarvajeev Mangal Pratishthan Kalyan Gangwal.
 
 PETA India’s chief functionary Poorva Joshipura said, “Terrifying and injuring bulls is abuse, not sport, and this, combined with the injuries and deaths of people common at jallikattu events, puts a bloody stain on India’s reputation in the eyes of the world. Laws and Supreme Court verdicts need to mean something, and we look to the Supreme Court to confirm once again that jallikattu and bull races must not be allowed.”
 
 Why Jallikattu was banned
 
 People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA), India, documented in   of India-authorized inspections that during Jallikattu, terrified bulls are often deliberately disoriented by being given substances like alcohol; having their tails twisted and bitten; being stabbed and jabbed with sickles, spears, knives or sticks; and being punched, jumped on and dragged to the ground 
 
 Many bulls have died during Jallikaatu events
 
 During races, bulls are often hit with nail-studded sticks and pushed beyond the point of exhaustion
 
 Activists’ View
 
 Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960, is a welfare legislation. It cannot be amended to defeat the very purpose of the Act. All its sections must be in coherence to the main act
 
 This is the first time in the history of India that a state government has decided to bypass the Supreme Court by legislating something to defeat its orders
 
 There is no new issue or cause of action to take such a step other than public opinion
 
 This trend to undermine an order of the Supreme Court will open a pandora’s box, where hundreds of such orders of the court in issues related to human rights, gender rights, rights of children or rights of women will be rendered useless.
 
