NASHIK:   across the district will witness voters’ registration drives starting July 1.

 Following the directives of the state election commission, the district administration will conduct the drive across senior colleges with the college or university representatives acting as the election commission’s representatives while the college principals will attest the students’ documents. 
 
 The aim of the drive is to ensure that all the students are of 18 years of age as on January 1 of the academic year to get them registered as voters.
 
 Colleges with courses affiliated to the Maharashtra Veterinary and Fisheries Sciences University in Nashik district received a notification regarding the same on May 18. For the drive, they were asked to appoint a nodal officer whi will collect the forms and submit them to the collector office twice in a year.
 
 “The ECI has instructed the chief electoral officers (district and divisional collectors) to hold special camps in all the government and private educational institutions (colleges and schools), vocational training institutes like ITIs, B.Ed colleges, nursing institutions and polytechnic colleges on at least two days between July 1 and 31,” said a senior official from the district collectorate. 
 
 State election commissioner J S Saharia said, “The drive will be undertaken in all senior colleges this academic session. As per the election commission’s request, the state government has issued a circular to the departments of higher and  , agriculture, animal husbandry, dairy development, fisheries and to the universities regarding this. Other universities and colleges will receive the notifications in the next two weeks,” said Saharia. 
 
 The district collector will have to ensure that the names of the new voters appear in the electoral rolls and distribute their voter identity cards. Colleges will have to append the format of undertaking along with form no- 6, 7, 8 and 8A for voters’ registration to their admission forms. Outstation students from these colleges can also be enrolled as their applications will be forwarded to the respective election officer in their assembly segments. 
 
 College representatives in the city have welcomed this decision. “It’s a praiseworthy decision of the government to register first-time voters from the college itself,” said   of  
 
