Ahmedabad: Gutkha seems to be the reason why Jamnagar-based businessman   was on target of  , brother of underworld Don  . Anees’s bid to eliminate Khatri was foiled as the four contract killer suspected to be sent by him, were arrested by Rajkot police on Saturday.

 Khatri, a top businessman of   had recently floated a gutkha brand ‘Heart’ in Dubai. His Dubai business is handled by his nephew  .
 
 Sources in the Anti-Terrorist Squad (ATS) that reached Rajkot Saturday late evening after arrest of contract killers Ramdas Rane, Ramdas Rane, Sandip Dayanand and Anil Dhilod, said that Anees too was into gutkha business.
 
 However, after Khatri launched a his new guthka brand, Anees’s brand was taking severe beating in the market. “Moreover, Anees suspected that recent raids by central agency on gutkha company, with which he is associated, in India were made following tip off by Khatri,” said a top ATS officials.
 
 He said, sometime back Anees had made a call to Khatri warning him to stay out of gutkha business and not to give tip off about his product or any information about his stock to the central agency.
 
 “However, Khatri carried on with his business and did not pay heed to Anees’s warning. With no change in Khatri’s business techniques, Anees contacted the four accused on the phone and gave them contract to eliminate Khatri,” added the ATS official.
 
 Following Anees’s instruction two of the sharp shooters boarded a private luxury bus from Nasik and two others from Mumbai on Saturday night to reach Jamnagar.
 
 “The accused had planned to steal a car from Jamnagar. And after killing Khatri, they were to flee by the same car by changing the registration number plates which they had brought with them. However, Nasik police got the information about the contract killing and contacted Rajkot police with spot on information about the contract killers boarding a private luxury bus,” said a police source.
 
 Rajkot police identified the bus from Chotila and followed it till it reached Rajkot before nabbing the accused with arms and ammunition.
 
