Coimbatore: With the   students’ hostel at   near   in a   and awaiting demolition, the district administration had asked authorities to shift the children immediately. But the students are still made to stay in the hostel though the building is in danger of collapsing. The structure has weakened further in the past few days due to rain. Officials say the students will be shifted once they find a suitable place nearby.

 The adi dravidar and tribal welfare department is running the students hostel at Lakshminaickenpalayam village for the last 25 years. A hundred boys had been staying in the 18-room hostel. Most of the students are from Valparai and their parents work in tea estates.
 
 As of now, only 29 children who are studying in classes VI to XII in the government aided ‘Sri Ramasamy Naidu Vidyalayam’ school stay in the hostel. They students are provided free food by the adi dravidar and tribal welfare department. They walk to school and back. The hostel has a warden and two cooks.
 
 The building is now in a dangerous condition and the concrete pillars have become weak. Students are forced to stay in the rooms though plaster from the ceiling is falling off in chunks.
 
 “We brought the condition of the building to the notice of officials of the district adi dravidar and tribal welfare department and requested them to shift the 29 students to another building. But there is no building available for students in the village and surrounding areas. So the students are forced to stay put. If heavy rain continues in Coimbatore, the building is in danger of collapsing,” said a senior officer.
 
 Tamil Nadu Adi Dravidar Housing and Development Corporation (TAHDCO), which constructed the building 25 years ago, spent Rs 33 lakh to renovate it in 2012. Despite the repairs the roof and pillars of the buildings are extensively damaged. 
 
 When contacted, Senthivel, district officer of the adi dravidar and tribal welfare department, said a team of officials will visit the hostel on Tuesday and take appropriate steps to shift the students to other hostel. “We have taken the issue very seriously and will discuss the matter with higher officials immediately. Further action will be taken soon,” said Senthivel.
 
 
