Gone are the days when all you had to do to add that bunch of fresh konna flowers to your kani was pluck a few branches from the tree in the neighbourhood.

  “Ayyo!   is a month away but our konna tree has already blossomed. By the time it’s Vishu, the tree would be bare. From where will we get the flowers for the kani?” — is what Malayalis have been lamenting for the past few years. The days when the   or Cassia Fistula bloomed just before Vishu have now become a thing of the past with the flowering tree blossoming at irregular intervals due to the changing climate.
 With Vishu just two days away, we explore what’s making konna say a quick ‘hi and bye’ well before the new year and how Malayalis are dealing with it:
 
 
 
 Botanist and professor Jacob Varghese lists out several reasons why the konna trees stand bare on the eve of Vishu, the most important being the fluctuating ground water table. Kani konna blooms when the ground water table falls and this used to happen around the time of summer in the past. “The plant senses the fall in the water, becomes stressed and resorts to the survival strategy – blooming and reproduction. However, these days, the ground water level falls numerous times throughout the year and whenever that happens, you can see the plant blooming. There is no particular season attached to it anymore,” he explains.
 
 Pollution is another reason for the flowering tree to bloom randomly. “Air pollutants from automobiles affect the trees, which stand near the roads. This also stresses them to flower,” says Jacob.
 
 
 
 Take a walk down the markets of Kochi, Trivandrum or other cities of Kerala during Vishu and you will see them flooded with something that isn’t quite environment-friendly – plastic kani konna. The price of these artificial flowers ranges from `70 to 100, and they come in various sizes and forms.
 Kalesh, a seller from Kochi, says, “There are various kinds of plastic konna bunches on sale – with and without leaves, with buds and flowers, and those with flowers only.
 
 These days we get a lot of customers because the plastic konna can be used again and people don’t have to wait till Vishu eve to pluck the original flower, which easily withers in a day or two.”
 
 The customers agree that the plastic replicas more than serve their purpose. Techie Aswini Nair says, “I don’t see why using a plastic option for konna is a problem. As part of the kani, we have been using plastic muri thenga (half coconut), vellarikka (cucumber) and vegetables for a few years now. It’s also easier in today’s world, where it’s tough to find good natural products. Sure, they don’t match the originals, but you can reuse them every Vishu.”
 
 
 
 The lack of real flowers in the trees has hit the vendors who sell them as well, as there are few to be found, days ahead of Vishu. Baburaj, a vendor in Kochi, says, “The flowers will be brought from nearby villages tomorrow, but they might get sold in no time.”
 
 Last year, a bunch of konna flowers cost around `20 in the Palayam market in Trivandrum. This year, however, the cost might increase, say vendors. A seller in Kochi, Rajesh, says that last year, the shops sold the flower here for `40 to `70 per bunch. “However, more than the shops, it’s the seasonal sellers who made big bucks. They brought the flowers from elsewhere for close to `30 and sold them on the roadsides and at traffic signals for around `50 per bunch. This year too, that can be the case.”
 
 And if you feel that you can be smart and pluck a bunch from a roadside tree that belongs to nobody, you are mistaken. Media professional Aju S says, “Last year, I remember trying to get a bunch from a tree on the Kaloor-Kadavanthra stretch to complete our Vishukani. All of a sudden, a few tender coconut vendors and other shopkeepers ran towards me, yelling, ‘Hey… We planted and nurtured those trees all these years. You can’t just pluck its flowers for free!’ I haven’t seen anyone caring about its existence till then, being a regular traveller on the road. They are just banking on the flower shortage to earn some quick bucks.”
 
 
