NAVI MUMBAI: The ragpicker who survived a gruesome   and whose testimony led to the death sentence for the duo who had also raped and murdered her friend under the   flyover, continues to lead a hard-scrabble existence on the streets of Navi Mumbai.

 TOItracked down the Maharashtrian woman who retains her pluck despite an insecure life. Nothing has changed for her from the time of the heinous crime in May 2012 till the death rap awarded this week by a Thane court. No effort has been made by any state agency to rehabilitate her or provide her shelter. She still collects plastic trash and other waste materials to try and earn around Rs 200 daily. At night, she sleeps outside   station like countless other homeless people. “I learnt today the court has given `phansi' (death by hanging) to those two. I will happily see those ma%$#@&s hang. Often at night, some chu%$!s and drunkards try to molest me while I am asleep. I am all alone, so have to be wary and alert all the time,“ said the 25-year-old survivor, her language peppered with colourful expletives. The ragpicker who survived a gangrape and attempted murder in 2012, lives in the same wretched and precarious conditions that she was exposed to five years ago.
 
 When told that it was difficult to contact her as neither the cops nor the lawyers could communicate the news about the death sentence to her, she said: “I can't afford a mobile phone. All my energy goes in doing this (ragpicking), but I am often here outside Vashi railway station if anyone wants to talk to me. From childhood to now I have lived in Vashi; my parents died when I was a teenager, and so only I have to look after myself," she asserted.
 
 However, her speech is a bit slurred, as if under the influence of alcohol. Just then, a co-worker,  , starts berating the survivor for not taking care of her health, keeping bad company and drinking booze. “She knows there is nobody for her, yet she drinks alcohol. The other day she was complaining of stomach pain. Now that the government can also help her with compensation and aid, she too must understand and stay healthy," said Meena, who is like an elder sister to the survivor.
 
 “I sometimes drink to reduce the day's stress and tension. No one's here to help me, what to do," said the survivor, now reduced to tears after the sharp words spoken by Meena. She, however, added that she was married to a man many years ago, but he now lives in Chennai, and rarely visits once in a while to meet her. Recalling the brutal gangrape and the murder of a co-worker in May 2012, the survivor said: “That day , those two louts made a chu%$! (fool) of us and lured us to Belapur by saying that they have a catering job that will pay a lot of money . After they stabbed both of us, completely blanked out for a minute or two. My friend had died due to excessive bleeding. At that point, under the flyover, I felt very bad and angry and somehow managed to crawl out of that cavity and jump on the busy street. Once the cops came on the scene, I was determined to punish them even at the cost of my own life." The survivor has a reputation for being combative. However, other ragpickers in the area told TOI that because there's no one to care for her, she is not in good health. They too hope and pray that either the state government or an NGO will step forward and change her life for the better.
 
