BENGALURU: The BJP central leadership is looking at fielding its chief ministerial candidate, B S Yeddyurappa, from a constituency in North Karnataka to consolidate the party’s traditional Lingayat vote bank which holds the key to returning to power.

 Between 1983 and 2013, Yeddyurappa has won from Shivamogga’s Shikaripura constituency seven times, after which he parted ways with the BJP and contested from his newly floated party Karnataka Janata Pakasha (KJP). However, a year later, the Lingayat strongman rejoined BJP and successfully contested the Shivamogga Lok Sabha seat, while leaving Shikaripura for his son B Y Raghavendra. Shikaripura was converted from a reserved constituency to a general category one in 1983.
 
 Having lost from Shikaripura only once (in 1999), Yeddyaruppa was planning to once again contest from there in the upcoming assembly polls."The proposed change in constituency will give the party the much-needed push in North Karnataka where Lingayats hold the key for candidates’ success in most of the assembly segments. This becomes all the more crucial in the backdrop of the ruling Congress looking to split the Lingayat vote bank by raking up the Veerashaiva-Lingayat controversy," said a senior BJP leader, who confirmed the development.
 
 Another leader said the move would also put an end to the internal rift between Yeddyurappa and K S Eshwarappa, also a senior BJP leader from Shivamogga. The two had fallen out over some local politics in the district. The BJP also wants to send out a message to the community that only the BJP would make a Lingayat man the state’s CM.
 
 Party sources said BJP national president  , after gathering reports from Prakash Javadekar and Piyush Goyal, party’s Karnataka in-charge leaders, had a phone call with Yeddyurappa on Saturday and suggested that he should contest from a constituency in North Karnataka in the larger interest of the party. Shah also assured Yeddyurappa that Raghavendra will continue to contest from Shikaripura constituency. Yedduyurappa is believed to have instantly agreed, saying he is ready to do anything in the party’s interest. 
 
 Though the BJP high command has reportedly asked Yeddyurappa to contest from any constituency of his choice in North Karnataka, party sources said their leader is likely to contest from Badami in Bagalkot district, currently represented by Congressman and former minister B B Chimmanakatti, a Kuruba.
 
 “Yeddyurappa contesting from my constituency won’t make any difference to me. He is apparently terrified since he sees thin chances of winning from Shikaripura and is therefore thinking of shifting to Bagalkot," said Chimmanakatti.
 
 
 
 
 Will chief minister   too opt to contest from North Karnataka? That’s the question doing the rounds now. 
 
 Excise minister R B Thimmapur and cooperation minister Satish Jarkiholi hinted at the possibility."We will persuade Siddaramaiah to contest from Athani in Belagavi district," said Jarkiholi. "We don’t care even if Prime Minister   comes and contests from Bagalkot. But we wish Siddaramaiah makes up his mind and contest from North Karnataka," said Thimmapur.
 
 Siddaramaiah had recently dismissed reports that he’d help his son Yatindra get into politics by sacrificing his constituency, Varuna and choosing Koppal or Chamundeshwari instead. While he contested the Koppal Lok Sabha seat in 1991 and lost, he represented Chamundeshwari constituency in the state assembly for five terms.
 
