Mumbai: The Reserve Bank of India appears to be sending a message to   to be more involved in currency management rather than constantly dip into currency chests to meet demand. While banks across the country say that they are receiving fresh currency from the  , cash supply is down in centres like Mumbai, Gujarat and Hyderabad — where there is a mismatch in demand and supply.

 Banking customers in some cities have been complaining of shortage of cash from early April. Operating bank offices say that they get as low as 15% of their cash requirement from the RBI’s currency chests. Bankers in head offices say that the currency shortage is not nationwide, rather it is a mismatch. For instance, while Mumbai continues to face a cash shortage, Delhi appears to be better off.
 
 According to an official at a large public sector bank, states where elections have been held have seen a good supply of currency. This might have to do with the Election Commission’s earlier demand asking the RBI to ensure that candidates can withdraw the Rs 2-lakh election-related spending that they are allowed from their bank accounts.
 
 However, not all banks are seeing a shortage. An SBI official said that the situation is normalising. Rajiv Anand, executive director (retail banking),  , said, “There has been an issue with demand and supply mismatch for the first few days of the month. This was largely in a few pockets like Mumbai and Hyderabad. The reason for the mismatch is not yet clear. But we are seeing a normalisation of cash supply now.”
 
 An official with a private bank said, “While overall the cash supply has not dropped, availability of currency in some states has been lower.” He added that banks were reluctant to move cash across the country because of logistics issue and problems that private agencies face with outsourcing agencies.
 
 Some bankers suspect that the RBI might be going slow on supply because the central bank has replaced more than 80% of the currency notes that were withdrawn during demonetisation. “It was expected that the need for currency would decline with the increase in digital transactions. But what we are seeing is that debit card usage has dropped in the last two months,” said an official with a large private bank. 
 
 The RBI has, however, taken the stance that remonetisation will be in accordance with demand and printing capacity will not be a constraint. “We appeal to the public that they need not worry about the availability — it is continuously coming. So they should freely recirculate the notes that they have, then this problem will not be there,” RBI deputy governor R Gandhi had said in the monetary policy press conference in December 2016.
 
 
