MUMBAI: A special   rejected the bail plea of an   who was allegedly caught accepting a Rs 1.25-crore   for settling a complainant’s matter with the  . Refusing to grant the release of Ashok Nayak (59), the court on Thursday said, “It is worth to note that he was allegedly accepting bribe not for the work of his own department, but for the work of other department. Prima facie, there appears some connections between ED officers with the accused person and an investigation is to be made in that direction.”

 The court said in such a case involving a high-profile officer, the release on bail may have adverse impact on the investigation and rejected his bail plea. 
 
 The court also rejected the bail plea of the other accused, Dhananjay Shetty (52). In continuation with the trap proceedings on May 6, Nayak had allegedly handed over the bribe amount to Shetty and was allegedly caught red-handed. 
 
 Raju Shetty, who runs a bar in Panvel owned by Jairam Shetty, received a notice from ED. In his complaint to the anti-corruption bureau (ACB), Raju said that in April, a man who identified himself as Ranjeet Kumar from the ED, called him, threatened that he would be arrested and told him to meet Jairam. Raju told the ACB that he met Jairam, who, in turn, advised him to meet Nayak. He added that on May 3, he met Nayak who demanded Rs 12 crore to settle the matter with the ED. He claimed that after bargaining, Nayak reduced the amount to Rs 10 crore. Nayak also allegedly asked Raju to arrange 25-30% of the bribe amount within a couple of days. After the complaint was lodged on May 4, a trap was laid.
 
 Besides citing medical issues, Nayak, in his plea, said he was a Class I central government employee and was unlikely to abscond. Dhananjay denied any role in the crime. The prosecution, while opposing the bail pleas, argued that they needed time to complete recording statements of witnesses before the accused were released on bail. The prosecution also alleged that Dhananjay was a link between Nayak and Jairam.
 
