KOCHI: The prosecution adopted a pick-and-choose method to build a case against chief minister   on the SNC La valin deal but it could not substantiate that anybody made undue gains, senior   argued in   on Friday.

 He said former chief minister   would have been the first accused if all those involved in the deal were made accused in the case. “Even if everything in the CAG report is correct, it need not be corruption. Nobody got anything from the deal,“ the counsel said. Salve, who argued the case before a single bench from 11 am to 4.15 pm, contended that it was not only former electricity minister Vijayan who approved the deal. “The finance minister and the chief minister had also approved it but the prosecution has not mentioned it,“ he said.
 
 Canadian company SNC Lavalin had already conducted business with KSEB in Kuttiyadi project and the memorandum of understanding (MoU) for renovation and modernisation of Pallivasal, Sengulam, and Panniar (PSP) hydroelectric projects was signed during the term of G Karthikeyan, the electricity minister in the previous UDF government. However, nobody challenged Karthikeyan, the counsel said.
 
 Salve argued that the arbitrariness of the prosecution was also revealed in the way in which officials involved in the agreements and the MoU for Malabar Cancer Centre (MCC) were made accused in the case.KSEB chairman (V Rajagopal) was involved in the deal from day one and he knew that no local tender was floated but he told the minister that it is a good idea to talk to Canadians and then signed the contract too. If he has done no wrong, then nobody has done no wrong and there cannot be a conspiracy, he submitted.
 
 The court should consider the reality that politicians in the country have to get projects in their localities to get public support.Salve said Vijayan had appointed a person to pursue the aid for MCC. He also questioned the CAG report by pointing out that only rough estimates were mentioned in the agreements.
 
 Salve said funds were obtained from Canadian governmental agency   (EDC) for the projects after the other options failed to work out. The case has been posted for further hearing on March 27.
 
