By 
 

 She was forced to sleep on newspapers; locked in a balcony with no access to a toilet; and severely beaten up for not coping with a society alien to her. Phool Muni, from a   called Gosai in Assam, deprived of a deserving childhood since she was 12, endured this until April 2 night.
 
 That night the minor girl couldn’t take it anymore and jumped to her death from the balcony of the ninth floor of the upscale Gopalan Grandeur apartment complex in Whitefield, where she was allegedly tormented for five years by her employers, Vishal Mutt and his wife Garima Grover. She was just 17.
 
 These heart-wrenching details coming from the suicide abetment-accused couple’s neighbours, indicate there may be around 150 more Phool Muni-like minor girls enduring similarly horrid treatment from their respective employers across Bengaluru even as you read this.
 
 The probe into Phool Muni’s death revealed that about 150 girls like her were “sold” to employers in Bengaluru. Delhi-based agency Milan Enterprises is said to have “placed” them against payments of Rs 50,000 each – a pointer to probability that such acts, akin to slavery and bondage, are still practised by so-called educated classes, that too in  .
 
 Residents of Gopalan Grandeur remember Phool Muni as a quiet and simple young girl who did not talk much with other residents in the apartments, except with her employers who have a kid.
 
 “We have not heard her talk, but only her cries when she was inside their house. Since November 2016 it has been terrifying to hear the cries from their house. Later we learnt that she was being beaten by the couple every now and then,” said Neha Ravichandran, a resident of Gopalan Grandeur.
 
 The residents, most of who preferred anonymity, said an elderly lady staying with the couple used to often slap Phool Muni in front of others. “Initially, we could not say anything, thinking we may be infringing on their privacy. But when it became a daily affair, a few of us told the couple to stop it; only to get cold responses from them,” said a resident.
 
 “One day, I told him (Vishal) that this was bad and that she was a small girl. He denied such incidents ever happened in his house,” said Neha.
 
 “Vishal’s wife Garima once came to our house and got aggressive. We told her how she should be treating their  ,” said Neha. “Garima admitted she was hitting the girl but said Phool Muni didn’t know how to live in this setup and was not coping well. That is why they were beating her.”
 
 Despite the talks, nothing changed. Neighbours said Muni refused clothes offered to her by them, fearing her employers. They alleged Muni was not even given a single penny. “A few days before her death, we stopped hearing the cries and thought all was well. Later, on April 2, we were told she committed suicide,” said a resident.
 
 *****************
 
 
 While investigating the death of 12-year-old domestic help Phool Muni, the police have found that the agency which sent Muni to work with a 70-year-old lady has also sold 150 more girls to various people. But, data available in agency records do not match with the girls’ location, a senior officer, explaining the problem, said. Muni was sent to work as a domestic help for an old woman in New Delhi, and was brought to Bengaluru.
 
 Similarly, most of the girls whose addresses are available with the agency have been changed. So, we are investigating the case in depth. DCP (Whitefield) M Narayana went to New Delhi on Wednesday seeking the cooperation of his counterparts in busting the racket. Narayana explained the sensitivity of the case to the officials there and with their help the city police are hoping to bust the huge racket and rescue as many as trafficked girls as possible. Investigators are visiting the addresses in agency
 records in person and are making calls to the numbers, but they are yet to get a breakthrough. The agency in question is Milan Enterprises.
 
 On April 2, Muni had fallen to her death from the ninth floor of an apartment near Hoodi Circle. Security guard Santosh Kumar had alerted the police and a case of mysterious death under CrPc 174 (c) was registered. In the further investigations, couple Vishal Mutt, a private firm employee, and his wife Garima Grover, were booked for abetment to suicide and trafficking. The police have not yet arrested the couple as Garima has got a six-month-old baby.
 
 A senior officer said, “We have seized the documents including passports of the couple. We have also warned them and ensured that they don’t leave the city without informing us. So, considering Garima’s baby, we have not yet arrested them. Garima’s mother, Prema Grover, who hired the girl for work from the agency is 70. So, the chances of arresting them is very less. Muni was sent to Prema from Milan Enterprises in New Delhi. Garima had also paid money to the company’s account. While appointing the agency, Rs 40,000 was paid and later on another Rs 80,000 was paid to the agency by Garima in instalments. The inmates of the house seemed clueless about the fact that Muni was trafficked. The police arrested three accused: director of Milan Enterprises Layman Singh, Sushil Patel and Lalina alias Nalina, an agent. Based on their confessions, city police passed on information to Assam police and arrested two agents Jhunk Hembram and Ganesh Hembram.
 
 -H M Chaithanya Swamy
 
