KOLKATA: In the past, the   didn’t intrigue Sayon Das and Somsnigdha Sikdar. The couple — both techies in   — weren’t interested because it didn’t affect their lives. But this year, they are eagerly looking forward to Jaitley’s speech on February 1 with the expectation of goodies for the middle-class, which silently stood in ATM queues for a better part of two months, believing the government’s intent was good. The Budget, they believe, is the perfect opportunity for the Modi government to demonstrate that their faith was not misplaced. 

 “We are looking for a shakeup of the tax slab that currently provides exemption up to Rs 2.5 lakh. I am hoping the government will increase the   to Rs 4 lakh so that there is more disposable income,” said Somsnigdha.
 
 Her husband is looking for a bigger relief in housing loan. Currently, servicing a Rs 25 lakh loan for a 3BHK flat in Chinar Park, he is coughing up an interest of 9.3%. “I hope home loan rate goes down to 7.5-8% and   for interest paid is increased from Rs 2 lakh to Rs 5 lakh. That will be more pragmatic as the minimum price of apartment in Kolkata is upward of Rs 50 lakh,” said Sayon.
 
 At their office, colleagues are hoping for reintroduction of standard deduction for the salaried class and increase in tax-free reimbursement ceiling for both medical and transport expenses. While they want the medical limit to go up from Rs 15,000 to Rs 45,000 annually, they are hoping conveyance limit will go up from Rs 19,200 per annum to Rs 36,000.
 
 “The FM must look at pragmatic figures. The amount offered should be in line with spends that would happen now and not based on a baseline data of bygone years,” he reasoned.
 
 Sayon also wants tax deduction under Section 80C to be hiked from Rs 1.5 lakh to Rs 3 lakh as a big chunk of this amount, if not the entire amount, is currently exhausted in provident fund contribution. 
 
 He questioned why salaried persons whose tax get deducted at source are taxed again when they go out to have a meal. “Doesn’t this amount to double taxation?” he wondered. 
 
 
