MANGALURU: National Board of Accreditation ( ) has reaccredited four engineering courses at St Joseph Engineering College ( ), Mangaluru. The only diocesan run engineering education institution is one of the few colleges in the   district to get accreditation and the only college certified for Outcome-Based Education (OBE).

 Giving details of accreditation on Saturday, most Rev Aloysius Paul D’Souza, bishop of Mangaluru and president of SJEC said college has been reaccredited for the second time and this is valid till June 2019. The courses accredited are computer science and engineering, mechanical engineering, electrical and electronics engineering and electronics and communication engineering. Civil engineering course is only department yet to get accreditation.
 
 Fr Joseph Lobo, director, SJEC said NBA expert team had visited the college in October and rigorously assessed the four departments. They have appreciated the infrastructure, management, faculty, student contributions and OBE practices adopted in the college. “OBE is the quality assurance mechanism adopted for engineering programmes by NBA when India became a signatory of the Washington Accord in June 2014,” he added.
 
 The four bachelor of engineering courses were first accredited under OBE by NBA in November 2013. With the current achievement, these four programmes join an elite class of programmes which have continuous accreditation status under OBE for more than two years, in Karnataka. The college is completing 15 years of its existence and currently has more than 2,500 students on campus.
 
 National Board of Accreditation (NBA), India, was initially established by AICTE ( ) for periodic evaluations of technical institutions and programmes basis according to specified norms and standards as recommended by AICTE council. NBA, is an autonomous body, with the objective of assurance of quality and relevance of education, especially of the programmes in professional and technical disciplines - engineering and technology, management, architecture, pharmacy and hospitality, through the mechanism of accreditation of programmes offered by technical institutions.
 
 
