Darr ka blockbuster — ' ' is back with action maestro  , who returns to host the season. With 12 jaanbaaz khiladis, this edition promises action, drama, emotions and unlimited entertainment. With their never-say-die attitude, the daredevils for the season —  , Ravi Dubey, Nia Sharma,  ,  , Manveer Gurjar, Lopamudra Raut (Miss United Continents 2016 - Second Runner-Up), Shibani Dandekar, Shantanu Maheshwari,  , Karan Wahi, and Shiny Doshi — will battle not only Spain’s unpredictable weather, but also specially curated stunts that will challenge their limitations.

 Rohit Shetty redefines darr at every step for the contestants with death-defying manoeuvres and nail-biting acts that promise to take viewers on an unprecedented adrenaline-filled ride. 
 
 Amid fierce competition, the contestants managed to bond with each other — Rithvik Dhanjani, Karan Wahi and Ravi Dubey’s notorious antics; Shibani Dandekar, Geeta Phogat and Monica Dogra’s thick friendship; Manveer Gurjar’s devil-may-care attitude; Nia Sharma and Shantanu Maheshwari’s never-ending swag; Hina Khan’s musical shenanigans; Shiny Doshi’s innocence. Last but not the least, ruling the hearts of the men in Spain, fashionista and pageant winner Lopamudra Raut got her leg pulled by other contestants for her love for make-up — in fact, it has become one of this season’s biggest talking points! And now, they’re all set to share their action-packed experience with the world as Colors launches 'Khatron Ke Khiladi' powered by Jeep Compass on Saturday and Sunday at 9 pm starting July 22.
 
 Manisha Sharma, programming head, Colors, adds, “Viewers always look forward to a new destination every year and Spain is touted to be one of the most adventurous and beautiful destinations. This season’s contestants have proven to be a surprise package, especially the women. They are go-getters whose energy levels and sharp minds have made them formidable competitors. We will raise the bar of the show with the return of Rohit Shetty and a new mix of participants. We are all set to roll out an edgier and entertaining show.”
 
 
 
 
