BHOPAL: The masala of T-20 cricket have come to the rescue of   in Bundelkhand. They have now donned the   in local tournaments. 

 Raee dancers, eking out a livelihood by performing at temples, fairs, festivals and marriages are in demand to perform as cheerleaders in local T-20 tournaments.
 
 Since no celebration or event goes without Raee dancers in Bundelkhand, local villagers too find the new cheerleaders an added attraction to the matches. Though, IPL season has not begun and the fever has not yet caught the imagination of cricket fans in India, the excitement of T-20 cricket packaged with local Raee dancers as cheerleaders swaying to Bollywood numbers are turning to be a big hit in Bundelkhand’s country side.
 
 Two T-20 cricket tournaments have already concluded in the region while a third week-long competition began on Tuesday. Cricket festivities have been taking place in the villages of Chhatarpur in Madhya Pradesh bordering Mahoba district of Uttar Pradesh in Bundelkhand region.
 
 The traditional Raee dancers are hired from Hamirpur district, another bordering district in UP.
 
 Sujan Singh alias Chandu who is organising the Nadeshwar cricket tournament at Mureri village of Lavkush Nagar tehsil said, “We are living far away from the cricket stadium where IPL extravaganza happens. Though we don’t have that much of resources, we try to replicate an IPL in our villages.”
 
 And people just love it.
 
 At Mureri village, the inaugural match was played between host village and a neighbouring village team. The atmosphere was electrifying as the match started in a small ground located in the midst farm fields and villagers supporting their teams.
 
 The DJ was playing the newest Tamma Tamma… number from the latest Bollywood flick   while gaudily made up Raee dancers gyrated to the loud music till the match started.
 
 They danced when the ball crossed over boundary for a six or four or when a wicket fell. And as the commentator starts running commentary of the match, order is restored.
 
 “The dancers are from Bharua Sumerpur village of Hamirpur district and stay in our village during the seven-day tournament. They are paid Rs 1,500 each. Besides, boarding, lodging and travelling cost is born by us”, Sujan told TOI.
 
 A tournament ended on February 3 in which team of Mahoba district walked away with the title and prize money of Rs 7,500. It takes about Rs 50,000 to Rs 60,000 to organise a tournament. The matches are played with tennis balls.
 
