NEW DELHI: Small enterprises, which are facing difficulty in complying with procedures linked to invoice and return under the goods and services tax (Act), should be allowed to file a quarterly return while the tax payment may be monthly, West   finance minister   has said.

 In a letter to finance minister Arun  , Mitra also raised the difficulties being faced by exporters and urged him to consider changes in the refund rules under the GST regime.
 
 “Small enterprises are facing real difficulty in complying with the procedures relating to invoice and return as prescribed in the Act and the rules. For such people having a turnover not exceeding Rs 75 lakh, we need to bring in a concept of quarterly return,” Mitra said in his letter.
 
 “Further, these taxpayers may be allowed to raise a single invoice or bill for both exempted and taxable supplies. The law today requires them to issue separate invoices and bill,” he said.
 
 The government on Friday said it was working on speeding up refund of taxes paid by exporters on inputs as it draws up a strategy to boost exports and resolve issues faced by the sector.
 
 Mitra, who was chairman of the empowered committee of finance ministers, said several segments of the sector were experiencing a slowdown and urged Jaitley to unveil corrective measures to shield small and medium enterprises.
 
 He said a large amount of capital was getting blocked as refund to exporters were delayed. “We would suggest that refund should be allowed on the basis of   3B only.
 
 Furthermore, it should be seen that the exporters do not have to run to two authorities seeking refund of the GST paid on inputs,” Mitra said. “A single authority may be allowed to deal with refund on the basis of cross-empowerment,” he said.
 
 Mitra also suggested reducing the rate of IGST at the time of import of gold, silver and platinum to 0.25% as is the case with diamond exporters.
 
 Now, any scheduled bank or nominated agencies have to pay 3% IGST at the time of import for supply to exporters. “The ground reality is that the exporters are facing financial crunch leading to reduction of exports of jewellery. The resultant effect being shrinkage in employment opportunities in this sector,” he said.
 
 
