BENGALURU: Residents of   and Govindarajanagar cannot afford to fall ill, what with the absence of a general government hospital in the area forcing them to travel several kilometres to access Bowring and Victoria hospitals, or shell out thousands of rupees at private hospitals and clinics nearby.

 “There are eight Primary Health Centres (PHCs) and maternity centres in Vijayanagar and Govindarajanagar,” says T Ramu, RTI activist and general secretary of Vijayanagar Nagarika Vedike (VNK). 
 
 However, most residents of the two localities only seem to recognize three PHCs -- near Sangolli Rayanna playground, on Vijaynagar 8th Main and Dasarahalli Maternity Centre in Govindarajanagar. 
 
 On a recent Wednesday, the PHC near the playground was locked and shuttered, though a nearby shop owner said the centre is usually open.
 
 The doctor at the Vijayanagar PHC, which was open, said about 30-40 patients come in on a daily basis, and those suffering from serious ailments are sent to  , 15 minutes away. This centre, she said, is the only PHC in the   constituency and carries out all national health schemes, including immunization drives every Thursday.
 
 “We have no general hospitals or trauma/emergency centres nearby. No operations or surgeries are conducted at Hosahalli Referral Hospital, as it is mainly for childbirth and neonatal care. There is nothing for male or female patients suffering from other ailments,” Dr Ramakrishna Gowda, ENT specialist and longtime resident, rued.
 
 Residents said if they want to, they visit KC   in Malleswaram, Victoria Hospital on   or Bowring Hospital in the CBD. All these hospitals are located over 6km from Vijayanagar Metro station.
 
 “We have no option but to go to private hospitals,” said resident  . “There is a vacant three-acre plot in Vijayanagar. Why doesn't the government build a hospital there?” she wondered.
 
 Shivashankara Rao, another resident, agreed with her. “While there are many private hospitals like Global and Apollo in the area, there is no comparable government hospital.”
 
 Residents said while many of them can afford private hospitals and clinics, the same cannot be said for the economically weaker residents.
 
 Pointing to the government-run Jayanagar Maternity Home, Aravind KD, a resident, said, “If the government builds general hospitals like this one, citizens would give up going to private hospitals.”
 
 TH Vishwanath, BBMP joint commissioner, South zone, of which Vijayanagar is a part, asked residents to file official complaints with the BBMP. “They can even write to me, citing their concerns and issues,” said Vishwanath.
 
