Lashing out at the gov ernment for dismis sing the importance of  , the city's lone surviving piece of lung space, environmentalists said on Friday they will start an agitation again if the authorities fail to reroute the   (SRDP) around the park. Destroying a protected national park in the name of development is unpardonable, they said unequivocally . The state, in its counter before the southern bench of the  , has not only claimed that it has permission to cut or translocate 1,394 trees around KBR for the project, but also rubbished that it is an eco-sensitive zone (ESZ).

 “The government's counter is lopsided,“ said environmentalist Capt J Rama Rao. “ Any wildlife sanctuary , by law, is an eco-sensitive area and the space around it an ESZ. How is it that the same does not hold good for KBR, which is a national park and sanctuary?“ Here's another aberration that buttresses the argument: Keeping with an order of the Union environment ministry, Telangana, in December 2015, shot a letter to the ministry proposing 25-35 metre around KBR's boundary as ESZ. The ministry issued a draft notification on December 18. Around the same time, the SRDP was in the final stages of planning.
 
 Cut to six months later. The Telangana government, almost suddenly , decided to revise the ESZ to 3-7 metres, a move viewed as an attempt to “protect“ the flyover project. The proposal is under consideration. Activists say that considering the government itself sought a ESZ around the park, how can they claim otherwise?
 “Also, it is no secret that the forest department is a rubber stamp. To say that the felling of over a thousand trees has the nod of the department is a joke,“ said C Ramachandraiah, a public transport expert who has, since Day 1, opposed the SRDP . He slammed the government's argument about taking up compensatory afforestation.
 
 “They said the same thing while rolling out the Metro rail project. But where are those trees? Most have perished,“ said  , a fellow at  , Bengaluru, who has been closely following the case.About 3,000 trees were cut down for the Metro venture.
 
 The government's stand on decongesting roads through SRDP has failed to convince citizens. “World over, the negative impact of multi-level flyovers has been documented. They are being brought down to make way for green spaces and mass transit. And here we're following a 'regressive' model,“ rued Shilpa Sivakumar of Hyderabad Rising, the people's collective that's dragged the state to court. She hit out at the government for failing to make public the detailed project report.
 
 “It is clear that the government wants to somehow escape the environment impact assessment (EIA) mandatory for such projects. It is aware that if the court demands an EIA, the project will stall by at least two years. The design of the project ultimately sanctioned might not even be to the government's liking,“ said another senior environmentalist.
 
