Ahmedabad: A Black Box Theatre was inaugurated at Conflictorium, the   of conflict in Ahmedabad, on Thursday, with a choreography performance, ‘Queen-size’. A Black Box Theatre is an open and flexible performance space that is used for intimate productions including plays, dance and recitals among others. Through its first performance,   aims to start a discussion on   of the Indian Penal Code, which criminalizes   in India.

 Played out on a charpoy, the duet examines the nuts and bolts – carnal, mechanical and emotional – of a close encounter between two male bodies. The performance, choreographed by Delhi-based choreographer, Mandeep Raikhy, was an exploration through dance that took the form of a detailed study of intimacy between two men and is aimed at questioning spectatorship, privacy and dissent.
 
 With the Black Box Theatre, Conflictorium created and promoted a space for intimate performances. “We have inaugurated this space with Queen-size and touched the issue of homosexuality for the first time. Once these series of performances are over, we’re yet to see how we can occupy and empty this black room,” said  , artistic director, Conflictorium.
 
 “The performance largely is a response to section 377 and perhaps a protest in some way. There is a line of thought that supports homosexuality but also propagates keeping it behind doors. It is a study and portrayal of intimacy between two men – dancers Lalit Khatana and Parinay Mehra who perform the act and depict how bodies play out in a bedroom and people becoming an audience to their performance of intimacy,” said Sethi.
 
 Sharing what inspired him to create this performance, Mandeep said, “An article on ‘Why my bedroom habits are your business’, triggered the idea of this performance. It was important that a private encounter between two people be brought into the public domain because to make people understand it, it is important to talk about it. The idea is to make a compelling bodily argument through dance by performing intimacy exploring what one may not have pictured or thought about.”
 
 
