PATNA: Chairman of   Avtar Singh Makkar on Saturday denied that the committee has stopped the jathedras of Akal Takhat, Kesgarh Sahib and Damdama Sahib from participating in Prakashotsava celebrations in Patna.

 TOI had reported on Saturday that the three jathedars – high priests of temporal seats of Sikh religion – have received a letter from the committee and asked to stay away from Prakashotsava as they had been facing opposition from select corners of the community after they pardoned Sirsa-based Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh last year.
 
 Makkar, however, told TOI on Saturday that the three jathedars have created “hype” and they were never stopped from coming to Patna and only told that they would not be allowed to give religious messages at the main Durbar Hall at Gandhi Maidan, where Guru Granth Sahib was placed on Friday.
 
 Makkar, former chief of   (SGPC), said, “Though all decisions in this matter have been taken by Takhat Patna Saheb Managing Committee, Patna Sahib jathedar Iqbal Singh had talked to me on Friday. I told him that the SGPC does not want to interfere and the committee only has to take a final call on this issue. It has already been decided earlier that none of the jathedars would give religious message from the Durbar Hall at Gandhi Maidan during the main function on January 5 and they would only sit behind the sants (Sikh saints), who would lead prayers. However, I was told by Iqbal Singh that he was asked by Akal Takhat jathedar Gurbachan Singh to send a written letter on the same issue.”
 
 Apparently, many Sikhs are upset with the three jathedars for pardoning Dera chief last year who had allegedly dressed up as   in 2007. “Representatives of several Sikh organisations have told the managing committee to stop you from participating in the half-centenary celebrations or organisers would not be responsible for any untoward incident. So, for the sake of your respect, stature and security, the managing committee would not be able to welcome you,” reads the letter signed by committee general secretary Sarjinder Singh and Jathedar Iqbal Singh.
 
 Committee chairman Makkar clarified that the letter only stated that the committee would not be able to welcome them and they were not asked not to come. “The administration in Patna has apparently not expressed any reservation on the security front with regard to arrival of the jathedars. Hence, if they think that they are safe in coming here, no one is stopping them,” said Makkar.
 
 Makkar hailed the Nitish Kumar government for making grand preparations for Prakashotsava. “I have participated in many religious anniversary celebrations and I can say that this is better than most of them. Nitish Kumar has done a commendable job,” said Makkar.
 
