CHENNAI: Among over 30 Indian origin innovators, entrepreneurs and leaders who are part of the 2017 edition of Forbes’ list of super achievers under the age of 30 is   origin  . The 27-year-old is the co-founder of NeoLight that has developed a portable phototherapy device for use at home to treat jaundice. “It is quite an honour to be part of this list,” said Kopparthi.

 After completing his schooling ay DAV and Vanavani Matriculation Higher Secondary School in Chennai, Kopparthi went on to pursue engineering at Meenakshi Sundararajan Engineering College. In 2013, he moved to the US where he studied at the Arizona State University.
 
 A chance look at the condition of newborns at AIIMS Delhi by a friend led them in setting up NeoLight. “Typically, a newly born infant affected by jaundice needs to be cared for within the next 2-4 days. Else, it could lead to brain damage or death. Across the globe, over 1290 infants are affected by brain damage or die,” he said.
 
 The next 2.5 years went into development of a product that would be effective and economical, compared to the bulky devices in the market. With seed funding from the university and investors, NeoLight has developed a black sleep slab (similar to a chopping board) which can run on battery or solar power. “It is 43% quicker than existing products and almost 90% cheaper,” he says.
 
 With 12 engineers across 2 offices in the state of Arizona, Kopparthi is targeting US and India as primary markets. “Africa has a big incidence of jaundice. We will go there soon,” Kopparthi said.
 
 Kopparthi is not restricting himself to jaundice alone. They are now working on solutions for infant hypothermia and infant sleep apnea. “We are not a company that is after money. We are a company that creates social good,” said Kopparthi.
 
 Kopparthi will be visiting multiple educational institutions in India next month with a single point agenda. “A lot of people think there are only two options - get a job or go for higher studies. Not many know that entrepreneurship exists. I am here to tell them that if you have an idea, be bold and pursue it,” he says.
 
