AURANGABAD: Even as the city is all set to receive   for constructing roads from the state government under a special scheme, the municipal authorities are not excited about it as there are speculations that the government may route the fund through public works department (PWD) instead of the civic body. 

 Sources in the civic body told TOI on Friday that mayor  , other office-bearers in the   ( ) and municipal commissioner D M Mugalikar are constantly following up and trying their best to get the funds released. 
 
 But according to the sources, the state government is also exploring the possibility of channelising the fund through public works department. In the last season, when the state government had offered a fund of Rs 24 crore for the city roads, the municipal authorities could not complete the prescribed work within time. The government had released funds for the construction of five roads in March 2015, but the work is still in progress. It has earned a bad reputation for the civic authorities and it might be one of the reasons why the state government is searching for other options,” said the sources. 
 
 Meanwhile, Ghadamode on Friday reiterated that the civic body will recieve Rs 150 crore for roads very soon, but he said he is not sure whether the funds would be routed through AMC. “We are demanding that the funds be sent to the civic body. Ideally, the funds should be allotted to the civic body, as it is fully aware of the city’s   network,” he said. 
 
 Ghadamode also said that he is not bothered about who is going to execute the project. “I am happy that the city will soon get new roads,” he said.
 
 Recently, Mugalikar had said that he is in constant touch with the government officials for the early release of funds. 
 
 The civic authorities have not taken up repairing work on a large scale due to shortage of funds. Of the city’s total road network of about 1,350km, more than 60% are in a bad shape as the civic body could spend less than Rs 25 crore for its development in the last two years. 
 
