NEW DELHI: The opinion of captains and coaches of   teams will play a major role when the   ( ) officials sit down to take a decision on continuing with neutral venues in the premier domestic tournament.

 According to sources, the meeting of the captains and coaches, scheduled for May 23 in Mumbai, would also chalk out plans for other domestic tournaments. A majority of captains and coaches have informally discussed the neutral venue system, which was introduced last season to end home advantage and make the Ranji Trophy more competitive.
 
 Their view is that this system has not worked because of the absence of local support and interest. Some captains also feel that in order to avoid making green top pitches and rank turners, the curators ended up preparing flat wickets last season.
 
 The neutral venue system has also turned out to be an expensive affair for the state units which were forced to spend double the amount ­ as compared to the previous season ­ to conduct the matches. Add to that the issue of hectic travel, food problems while playing all eight games away from home, the lack of net bowlers, and the bag of complaints against neutral venues has swelled. The BCCI has a different take on it. An internal study of BCCI has revealed that there were more outright wins under this system. There were no complains over pitches and playing conditions. The tournament was played across 51 venues and the board took the initiative to assign 16 qualified curators for these neutral venues. There is a section in BCCI which believes neutral venues would have to be tried for two to three years before taking a final call on the matter.
 
 In this debate, the   (CoA), which would be represented by   and   at the meeting, would want to ensure that the views of players and coaches carry a hefty weightage before firming up the decision on whether to continue with neutral venues or not.
 
 Surprisingly, the teams who benefitted from playing at neutral venues aren't batting for it. One captain from a top Ranji team said the "system of neutral venues should be scrapped". Even some functionaries of the board also admitted that they haven't got enough positive feedback from the teams.
 
