CHENNAI: After much uncertainty over the last few months,   is all set to hold its   in the absence of a vice chancellor on May 19.

 Governor C   Rao, the chancellor, will participate and give away the certificates to 1,500 Ph.D degree holders and first rank holders of the bachelor's degree programme offered by the University departments and affiliated colleges. “Raj Bhavan has told the varsity about Rao giving consent for the event,“ a source told TOI. The certificates will bear the facsimile signature of higher education secretary, who is also chairman of the three-member VC convener committee. The last convocation of the varsity took place in January last year.
 
 The move comes after concerns were raised over the delay in receiving degrees, hampering the prospects of students pursuing higher education abroad.The convocation will facilitate distribution of certificates to two lakh students of the varsity and its 600 affiliated colleges during the graduation days shortly thereafter in their respective institutions. The students who passed out in the academic year 2015 16 will get the certificates.
 
 “The annual convocation will be held at   in Guindy campus at 11am. As many as 70 gold medals will be awarded to the meritorious students,“ said a source.The certificates will bear the facsimile signature of higher education secretary, who is also chairman of the three-member VC convener committee, that was set up to run the administration in the absence of VC. The last VC, M Rajaram demitted office in May last year.
 
 “The varsity administration was informed about the convocation on Friday. The governor's approval came in after the syndicate passed a resolution on March 30, endorsing the chairman of the convener committee to put signatures on the degree certificates,“ the source said. The other signatures include, registrar and controller of examination of Anna University.
 
 Incidentally, the University of Madras put off its 159th annual convocation slated for December 1 last year, after its syndicate objected to a bureaucrat signing the degree certificate in the absence of a VC.
 
