AHMEDABAD: The   clerk, who had hit the headlines by alleging that liquor meant for jawans is being sold to civilians, has struck again. In a second video posted on a social media platform, the clerk,   , uploaded a the video on Tuesday allegedly showing of a BSF uniformed jawan of 176 battalion and washing the personal car of his superior.

 Choudhary , who according to BSF officials, is posted as head constable ministerial, at  , and is currently on leave at Bikaner, is heard saying in the video, “My superiors said that I had disrespected the uniform by making corruption accusations wearing it while on leave. In 176 Battalion,   dressed in uniform are made to wash cars. Is this not disrespect of the uniform?“ He reiterated that the grievance redressal mechanism, which superiors claim to have in place, is not functional.
 
 Choudhary uploaded his first video on January 26. He alleged that corruption is rampant in the BSF and liquor meant for jawans is sold outside.
 
 In response to this video, BSF officials ordered an inquiry while reiterating that a grievance redressal system was in place and Choudhary had bypassed it and other official channels by venting on social media.
 
 Rattling off a complaint number, Choudhary alleged in the second video that he had complained on the online system on October 7, 2016 but in `dry' Gujarat none cared to probe the complaint.
 
 “They ordered an inquiry , only when I complained on social media. Why was my complaint in the in-house system not addressed?“ asked Choudhary .
 
 Choudhary wrote in his post that he is not afraid of anyone. “The day I wore my uniform I had told my father that he has only three children -the fourth has been sacrificed for the nation.“ He also said he will respond to queries with evidence.
 
 BSF officials said an inquiry has been ordered into the allegations. “However, social media is not a platform on which he has to defame the force by levelling allegations. We have already asked him to return to his place of duty and remain present while the inquiry is being conducted,“ said a senior BSF official.
 
