GURUGRAM: As an ownership battle rages between the   and 322 private entities over 464 acres of prime land in  , located off  , principal secretary (industries) Devender Singh is scheduled to make a visit to some special economic zones ( ) when he is in   on Monday.

 Though it hasn’t been specified which ones Singh will go to, the two SEZs on the disputed Gwalpahari land will almost certainly be a part of his itinerary. MCG served notices to both, asking them to vacate the land. One SEZ is already functional, the other is in the planning stage. Official, though, termed Singh’s visit a “routine” one. 
 
 Both SEZs are in the process of taking legal action against MCG for asking them to vacate the land. “We have the requisite approvals from both the Haryana government and the Centre to set up the SEZ and despite this we are being served eviction notice,” said an owner. “This is nothing but state-sponsored terrorism and the authorities are trying to arm-twist us. We are going to take legal action against MCG.”
 
 It would be interesting to see if the principal secretary takes up the issue. One SEZ owner had approached the Haryana government and sought quashing of Mutation No. 3249, which favours the MCG, by showing that land in dispute belongs to the civic agency and not to the SEZ.
 
 The 464 acres, in official records, are referred to as Mutation No. 610. On July 2, 2012, a new mutation was done to recognise the MCG’s ownership over a significant portion of the land. This new mutation was referred to as 3110. Mutation 3110 was cancelled in 2014 and the land given back to private entities. But on December 18, 2015, mutation 3249 was once again entered in the name of MCG. 
 
 MCG officials said they are acting within the legal framework in sending notices. “When the approvals for the SEZ were granted, the MCG did not exist. Now, the title and possession of the land, which these SEZs claim as theirs, is in MCG’s name. So, we have served them the notice. If they have nay grievance, they can approach the civil court,” said a senior MCG official.
 
 Hearings start in MCG, Suresh to decide on validity of mutation
 
 The MCG on Wednesday heard some of the 322 entities who are in possession of land in Gwalpahari that is the subject of an ownership dispute with the civic body.
 
 The hearings began after the MCG sent showcause notices to each of them, saying they had “illegally occupied” its land. They will continue on Thursday, after which the MCG will issue its final order.
 
 “Some of the parties wanted some documents from us and whichever document we could provide we did,” a senior MCG official said. “However, there are some documents that they will have to get from the civil court. We have given them some time to get the documents on their own and file their reply, based on which the joint commissioner will pass a final order,” the official added. Those who are not satisfied with the final order can appeal against it to MCG commissioner V Umashankar. They can also approach the civil court for a stay. Divisional commissioner DSuresh will also hear a related case in his court on February 23. “The hearing on Wednesday by MCG was regarding the eviction notice issued by it to 322 entities on the claim that the title of the land is MCG’s, and therefore, it wants them to vacate that land so that it can take possession of it. On the other hand, Suresh will decide on the mutation part of this case,” said a district administration official. 
 
