PATNA: Member secretary of Asian Development Research Institute (ADRI)   on Monday said checking tax evasion was a bigger challenge for the Indian government than chasing black money.

 Addressing a function here to mark Income Tax Day, Gupta shed some light on why India is a non-tax compliant society that loves to evade taxes without realising its impact on the country. “India’s tax collection as a share of GDP has risen only by 10 percentage points over the past six decades. As per the income tax data for the last 16 years, made public by the government in 2014-15, just about 4.87 crore people filed tax returns, making it less than 4% of the total population of 125 crore. It is estimated that more than 90% of our net national income lies outside the tax net,” he said.
 
 “While the effort to increase the tax base or confiscate the black money is okay, there should be an immediate strategy to increase the revenue of the state. The income tax department should put its attention on the ‘expenditure mapping’. This can be done through Central Economic Intelligence Bureau (CEIB),” he said. 
 
 Gupta further said Goods and Services Tax (GST) is an indirect tax and is levied at the same rate on the poor and the rich. Following Michael Kalecki, a Polish economist, if the poor consume proportionately out of their income, the incidence of an indirect tax would be higher on the poor than the rich, which turns it into regressive taxation. 
 
 Gupta said one-third of the total tax revenue is collected in the country from direct taxes (5.5% of GDP) and two-thirds from various indirect taxes, which make for 11% of GDP. Any attempt to increase the tax-GDP ratio through GST would lead to higher inequality in a country which already witnesses extremely high and increasing inequality. Thus, direct tax like income tax is extremely necessary for equity consideration, he added.
 
 Gupta also stressed that there are too many rules, regulations and exemptions to save taxes. “People think they do not know exactly which rule or exemption to take advantage of or which rule is applicable. If zero tax rate is 2.5 lakh per annum, it means that all those who have earned less than that amount should be given a subsidy to attain 2.5 lakh per annum. Changing taxation rules from year to year always causes problems and retrospective changes cause breach of trust. There is nothing to reward those who have paid taxes honestly,” he added. 
 
 Gupta brought to light other issues, such as demonetisation, saying the central government did not hesitate in taking knee-jerk actions. “Frequent changes in the Act without allowing sufficient time to re-engineer business processes are also creating confusion among small and not-so-well-informed assesses,” he said. 
 
 
