GURUGRAM: On a recent episode of a famous kiss-and-tell chat show, a veteran actor, known for his gruff and unemotional way with words, spoke out of character, revealing how he would write love letters to the woman who would go on to become his wife.

 Well, it seems the city’s postal authorities have been sufficiently inspired by the actor’s sentimental remembrances, and, with Valentine’s Day very much in their thoughts, have made a noble effort to rewind a few decades, when expressing feelings for one’s swain was done not over electronic mail, or on Facebook, but by putting pen to paper — and then relying on airmail to convey those very same feelings. 
 
 All marvellously retro, no?
 
 In a wonderfully aromatic gesture, the postal department has introduced stamps that come in two scents — rose and sandalwood. These stamps also come with an option: loverboy can have his girlfriend’s snap pasted on the said gummed paper (and vice-versa, of course). Now, how romantic is that?
 
 Incidentally, the ink on these stamps, imported from Germany, doesn’t fade. And the scent, we have been assured, can last as long as five years. It’s a bouquet that will likely remind you of precious times spent in the company of a loved one (or not). Clearly, the postal department has its heart in the right place. It’s a bit like Dad informing junior of the delights of a blended scotch, or Mum telling her daughter that a bunch of roses beats lacy lingerie any day.
 
 But can the postal people make letter writers out of youngsters who are stubbornly social-media animals and have little time (and even less inclination) of expressing themselves with wordy devotion? In this age of attention deficits and I-have-no-time protestations, 140 characters are more apt to communicate what’s on your mind (and in your heart) than a time-wasting stream-of-consciousness dialogue in a letter.
 
 So, what will young folks do for love? And what won’t they? These stamps are only available during Valentine’s Day week, so we’ll know soon enough whether the postal department’s fragrant intentions have borne scent (there are, incidentally, plans to introduce more whiff-laden stamps, among them lily and jasmine).
 
 Whatever your views, old-fashioned or new-fangled, the spirit of love will always be very much alive. 
 
 Fragrantly so.
 
 
