BHOPAL: City-based schools hailed the Union finance minister Arun Jaitley’s announcement of creating ‘innovation fund’ for   and a system of   in the country.

 In his budget speech, Jaitley had vowed to put up a system of ‘annual learning outcome’ in schools and also creating an ‘innovation fund’ for secondary school education. This fund is to ensure universal access, gender parity and quality improvement in education with stress on creativity. 
 
 “With brilliant and creative students finding it difficult to get proper recognition at school level, creating funds for this field would benefit both students as well as the country,” said Ajay Sharma, principal, Delhi Public School, Bhopal. He said setting up a dedicated agency to monitor annual learning outcomes would give the much-needed thrust to the   in India, especially Madhya Pradesh.
 
 Speaking to TOI, D Ashok Sharma, principal, Gyan Ganga International Academy, also appreciated the budget allocation towards school education, stating that 'innovation funds' was the need of the hour at the school level. “Enabling school students to prosper in innovation was a much-awaited decision. We have bright students in our schools with creative ideas, but they don’t get platform to showcase their innovations. I think the budget for it will certainly help,” said Sharma. He said international schools instil innovative programmes among student from the primary schooling level and bringing this concept in India would improve quality of education.
 
 On the system of annual learning outcomes, Campion School principal Athnas Larka S J said it would not only stress upon learning outcomes but also on importance of teaching. Speaking about budget for innovations, he said, “Students get to choose field of research and other creative programmes only at higher education level. Having funds for the same at school level would definitely bring drastic change in the education policy.” He said for the vast majority of the students who aspire to become researchers, artists in future, it would be like a “spark in a powder keg”.
 
 Meanwhile, the Union budget might have find some new ways to improve education in the country, but it did not have a mention of Right to Education (RTE) 2009 and other schemes like Sarva Shiksha Abhiyaan, which have almost lost steam due to poor implementation after they were launched with a lot of expectations.
 
