LUCKNOW: Amid chaos and unending queues at several   across the city, some customers reached with   and others without, on the first day of the no helmet, no petrol   being implemented on Monday. 

 The campaign launched by the   along with petrol pump dealer’s association drew mixed response. In a reality check of petrol pumps in several places including Indiranagar, Gomtinagar, IT crossing, Badshahnagar, Hazratganj, Charbagh, Ashok Marg, Cantonment, Daliganj and Koneshwar, laxity was observed on the part of police. Barring a few pumps that followed stringent action against riders without helmet, to the extent of slapping a fine of Rs 200 on them, majority of the pumps saw riders finding a way out with police either not present on site or standing away from the hub.
 
 “Yeh UP hai, yahan sab chalta hai (This is UP, where anything goes),” said Imran, a student who rode into the Patrakarpuram petrol pump without helmet and managed to even get away with a refill. 
 
 TOI found a number of petrol pump workers did not implement the new rule and said it was to begin on a later date. This added to the confusion. Most of petrol pump employees were not aware of the new rule. 
 
 While some disagreed and even created ruckus at the petrol pumps, there were others who agreed with the campaign and were aware about it in advance. Gaurav Gupta, who was not wearing a helmet, readily paid the fine. He later said, “I am a diabetic and often get boils in summers which makes wearing helmet a problem but I support the cause and thus paid fine for my offence.” 
 
 Another rider Arun Kumar said, “It is horrifying to see death of so many young people in road accidents and this policy will ensure their safety and mortality rate will decrease.”
 
 On being contacted, SSP Deepak Kumar said, “For the first week, it is a sensitisation program for commuters and action will be taken strictly after seven days. We will record registration number of vehicles through   and repeat offenders will be fined.” Asked about those who get fuel by bribing policemen, he said, “Those found guilty, will be dealt with as per law.”
 
 
 
 
