NAGPUR:   Eknath Khadse, facing charges of transferring government land in Pune district to his kin, appeared before the   enquiring into the matter. However, he had to return without deposing as counsel for Maharashtra Industrial   sought an adjournment. February 21 has been fixed as the next date of hearing.

 Meanwhile, the term of the one-man probe commission ends on February 15 and it has sought an extension of another six weeks for completing the inquiry and submitting the report to the government.
 
 It was the first personal appearance of Khadse at the commission. He is now likely to visit again on February 21 for deposition. This will be followed by arguments between the parties involved. “We have examined witnesses and collected necessary documents related to the case. Once the arguments are done with, the main work will be over and findings can be complied in a report.,” said an official close to the probe process said.
 
 The one-man committee was appointed on June 23 by chief minister Devendra Fadnavis following allegations by the opposition that a plot of land of MIDC in Pune located at Bhosari was transferred in the name of Khadse’s wife (Mandakini) in a clear case of conflict of interest by the minister who had exercised his quasi-judicial powers to clear the land transfer.
 
 The committee chose to operate from Nagpur and was given a ministerial cottage at Ravi Bhavan to use as office along with the required staff. First it was given three months till September 22 for the probe. As the task was not completed it got extension till December end.
 
 The term was extended again and now ends on February 15. Khadse had submitted his written submissions on October 22.
 
 A public interest petition has also been filed in the case, and on Tuesday the court expressed concern over delay in completion of the inquiry. 
 
 The likely extension by six weeks of the Zoting commission term will have political implications as Khadse is nursing hopes of rehabilitation if he manages to come out unscathed in the probe. Khadse could emerge as a OBC face in the party and jump into race for chief minister’s post. 
 
 There is a strong speculation that after February 23 (when results of 10 municipal corporations, including Mumbai are declared) the   may withdraw from the Devendra Fadnavis government. To keep the lame duck, government Khadse could play a role. However, with the probe getting delayed by six weeks, Khadse may have out stay out of the scene.
 
