NEW DELHI: The   arrested two women of African origin with 4kg of fine quality   on Friday. The seizure from a hotel in Mahipalpur, worth Rs 28 crore in the market, was the third such haul in the past month. 

 The women were identified as Thelma Mkandawire, 38, and Pamela David Kiritta, 42. NCB officials are searching for a South African national to whom the women were supposed to deliver the consignment.
 
 Mkandawire flew in to Delhi from Abu Dhabi on a   flight. A cavity in the bottom of her travel bag held the cocaine, which were packed in a plastic bag. “After the woman reached IGI Airport, the NCB team had her under surveillance,” disclosed Madho Singh, zonal director, NCB. “Our team followed her when she left the airport and reached at hotel in Mahipalpur. Some time later, another woman reached the hotel to receive the consignment. Our team stepped in and intercepted them both.” 
 
 Kiritta told her interrogators that she was staying in Vasant Kunj since January 20 and was working on behalf of a man from South Africa. She had visited India nine times since 2006 as well countries like South Africa, Ecuador and Kenya. NCB officials say that Kiritta was a conduit between the carrier and suppliers in Delhi. She kept the cocaine in Delhi and supplied it as per the demand from local consumers.
 
 Sanjay Mehta, NCB spokesperson, added, “Thelma also had a multiple entry and exit visa and had carried drugs to China and Hong Kong a few times earlier. Last year she was arrested in Pakistan and was jailed for six months. After her release, she went to Abu Dhabi to pick up another consignment and travelled to Delhi.”
 
 NCB believes the cartel is being run by a group based in Peru or Bolivia and is the same one that had employed a Brazilian woman earlier to carry the contraband in swallowed packs. Its consignments were first taken to Sao Paolo in Brazil and then distributed throughout West African countries through carriers. Other carriers then brought the drug to India via Ethiopia or Abu Dhabi.
 
 
