LUCKNOW: In one of the most progressive budgets till date, LMC has shown its income generation at around Rs 1,791 crore, while its allocation under various heads is only Rs 1,769 crore for the next financial year. This implies that LMC is targeting to earn Rs 22 crore more than its actual expenses between April 1, 2017 and March 31, 2018. 

 The biggest target is collection through house tax which has shown 50% hike from last year. The tax collection target was Rs 200 crore till FY 2017 but has now been increased to Rs 300 crore for FY 2018.   said that until now it was mostly dependent on recovery from government offices and organizational set-ups because of shortage of revenue inspectors. Collection from private houses was limited to only about one-third of total properties. 
 
 LMC’s chief finance officer, Rajendra Singh said, “This year we aim to increase our tax net coverage to those properties which are left out. The tax net covers about 5 lakh properties but we estimate around 1 lakh more houses in the city need to pay tax. For this we have even hired 15 revenue inspectors who will help us in recovering pending taxes from private houses, especially commercial properties.”
 
 The next collection target is from user charges for garbage collection from houses. It has been increased from Rs 20 crore last year to Rs 25 crore assuming that the new company which has taken charge of door-to-door collection and waste treatment plant will cover maximum households and markets under its fold by this year, hence increasing the total value of user charges. An official said, “Until now only 30% houses were being covered under user charges but in FY 2018, the new company aims to cover most households thereby increasing our revenue.” 
 
 Also, for earnings through various penalties under   for offences like garbage dumping, illegal parking, garbage burning etc, the LMC has increased its target from earlier the Rs 1 crore to Rs 10 crore. The officials would be more vigilant to catch hold of offenders this year. Besides, it has increased targets of receiving restoration fee from road-cutting exercises done by private agencies by 25% assuming that most city would be connected with 4G and PNG cables this year. Income target from advertising tax has been increased by 25%.
 
