SRINAGAR: Veteran Congressman   said that the Central government should talk to everyone in Kashmir because an enduring solutions would come only through dialogue. 

 Aiyar said that if the Centre is willing to talk to armed rebels in Nagaland, why is it reluctant to talk to people in Kashmir? “The Government should hold a dialogue with Pakistan and people of Kashmir. Dialogue will reduce the tension between India and Pakistan and calm the prevailing situation in Kashmir,”   told reporters on the sidelines of a seminar organized by the O P Shah’s Centre for Peace and Progress at a hotel here. Other members of political parties included CPM’s M Y Targami, Ghulam Hassan Mir, former state minister and PDP official Nizamuddin Bhat and   of the  . 
 
 “BJP should talk to everyone, even with the gunmen, stone-pelters and all the elements in Kashmir. Enduring solutions would come only through dialogue. You should talk to everybody, because when you stop talking, then guns do the talking,” he said. He said honouring an   official with a certificate, who used a civilian as human shield, at this time, was not right. “Rewarding the Major with a certificate was not appropriate as it would increase tension,” Aiyar said. 
 
 On BJP president Amit Shah’s comment that only three districts in Kashmir are protesting, Aiyar said that the British had made similar claims during the freedom movement, that only three districts in India were protesting against their rule. “What Amit Shah is saying, that Kashmir problem is only in three district and rest is okay, is totally wrong,” Aiyar said. PDP’s Nizamuddin Bhat said, “If the security forces violate human rights, action should be taken. The state government’s stand is clear, that the incident should be investigated. The PDP’s stand is that such incidents are bad in public perception and should be probed. If Army Major has been rewarded for this bravado, I don’t feel this is proper.” Saifuddin Soz said awarding the Major for using a civilian as a human shield is a “very bad thing to happen. Civil society in India is angry over it.” “PM Modi must resolve the Kashmir issue by dialogue. Hurriyat is available for dialogue,” he said. On the prevailing situation, Soz said, “It’s a revolt. Students and youth are protesting. Kashmir will not relent by military solution.”
 
 
