KOLKATA: Like an aeroplane developing a snag following a smooth take-off,   were grounded in their second match against   after making a flying start to IPL-10 with a 10-wicket win against Gujarat Lions.

 To add to Kolkata's woes, new-found hero Chris Lynn has been ruled out of their first home match, against   at the Eden Gardens here on Thursday.
 
 Lynn justified the faith shown by the team management in pushing him to the top of the order with scores of 93* (41balls) and 32 (24b). But now that his availability for the rest of the   is in doubt following an injury, Kolkata have no option but to look at Plan B very early in the league stage.
 
 Their opponents have been clinical in executing their plans so far, winning both games with plenty to spare. Both those matches were at their second 'home' Indore, so this will be Punjab's first test in alien conditions.
 
 Kolkata, however, might not find Eden Gardens to be the same 'home' which has always been their happy hunting ground.
 
 After the relaying of the surface, the Eden track is unlikely to play low and slow -conditions which suited Kolkata's spinners. The bowlers haven't been on song yet, conceding 180 or more in both matches on the road. Mystery spinners Sunil Narine and Kuldeep Yadav haven't looked menacing, while the newlook pace attack, comprising Kiwi Trent Boult and Englishman Chris Woakes, has been pedestrian.
 
 Kolkata will look forward to welcoming back Team India pacer Umesh Yadav, who was rested following a hectic Test season. Umesh is likely to replace Ankit Rajpoot as the home team is expected to go in with three pacers. Bangladesh allrounder Shakib-Al Hasan will most likely replace Lynn to provide stability to the middle and lower down, as well as give skipper   another spinning option. Robin Uthappa, who was Gambhir's steady opening partner in the last few seasons, could well return to the top of the order in Lynn's absence.
 
 Whatever the combination be, T20 cricket is all about seizing the moments as one bad over can change the course of a match. Kolkata learnt that the hard way in their last match against Mumbai, as they failed to defend 64 runs in the last four overs.
 
 Kolkata's fielding, too, was found wanting as they gave away easy runs and dropped vital catches.
 
 Punjab, who had two poor seasons, have looked a different side so far. Glenn Maxwell seems to be enjoying the responsibility of leading the team and it's showing in his batting as well. The 'Big Show' finished off both games with panache and is yet to be dismissed.
 
 With the classy Hashim Amla providing a solid start, the Maxwell-David Miller duo can afford to express themselves freely - like they did a few seasons ago.
 
 Punjab's bowlers, too, have done well to keep their rivals in check. That RCB couldn't cross 150 despite an AB de Villiers (89*) special the other night, speaks highly of their bowling which has been manned mostly by Indians. Ishant Sharma, who hasn't yet got a game, could be brought into the XI on Friday as the tall Delhi pacer can be a handful on a lively Eden track. 
 
 
