MUMBAI: For decades, football in the country has heavily relied on big-name Indian players, be it the Bhaichung Bhutias, IM Vijayans, or lately, a certain Sunil Chhetri. Clubs wanted only experienced, established players, and youngsters were seldom given a chance. That however is changing quickly, if the   (ISL) season 4 domestic draft which was held here on Sunday, is anything to go by.
 
 The ten clubs that signed a total of 134 players on the day weren't overtly in a hurry to sign the big-name, expensive Indians. Instead, they had their strategies well in place, knew which positions they had to fill up and more importantly, were clearly looking at a long-term solution. A case in point is 19-year-old Lallianzuala Chhangte.
  
 The striker, who cost a mere Rs15 lakh, was picked up before the much-experienced Eugeneson Lyngdoh, who was bought for a whopping Rs1.10 crore. Lyngdhoh, easily one of the best players in the national team and the most expensive player of the draft along with Anas Edathodika, was snapped up by two-time champions   (ATK).
  
 Even striker Robin Singh, who came on as a substitute in India's AFC Asian Cup qualifier against Kyrgyz Repulic on June 13, was made to sweat before eventually being picked up by ATK in Round 9 as the 72nd overall pick. The 30-year-old Edathodika, a no-nonsense defender, was the first pick of the draft and went to debutants Jamshedpur FC.
  
 As expected, it was goalkeepers that were high in demand at the draft as teams prefer foreigners as outfield players. Delhi Dynamos, in their first pick in Round 1, went for Albino Gomes, who cost them 50 lakh. Jamshedpur FC, who had the next pick, opted for Subrata Paul, paying a huge Rs87 L for him.
  
 The Dynamos, who started with a clean slate having not retained any players, signed Pritam Kotal for Rs75 L and also got Seityasen Singh and Romeo Fernandes for Rs50 L each.
  
  signed striker Balwant Singh for Rs65 L as their first pick. They also signed goalkeeper Arindam Bhattacharya for Rs64 L as a backup for the retained  .
  
 Other notable players drafted were Rino Anto, who went to Kerala Blasters for Rs63 L; Pronoy Halder and Narayan Das were signed for Rs58 L each by  .  's most expensive player at the draft was Thoi Singh, who was bought for Rs57 L. Bengaluru FC's most costly buy was Lenny Rodrigues (Rs60 L).
  
 FC Pune City manager Gaurav Modwel, whose team spent the least (Rs3.6 cr) at the draft, told TOI it was a conscious strategy to pick highly-rated but slightly inexpensive youngsters.
  
 "We were not looking at signing big names. Our most expensive signing was Lalchhuanmawia Fanai and we paid just Rs45 lakh for him. It's not about big names; it's about signing players that are hungry for success. We've done quite a lot of research on that," said Modwel, who will take great pride that his team managed to snap up supremely talented 24-year-old winger Kean Lewis for a mere Rs40 L. 
 
 
