DEHRADUN: Charity here may not be the bone that you share with a hungry dog. With strays baring fangs in the streets, cornering children and ambushing just about anyone ambling their way back from work, attempts are on to take wise and humane decisions to   in the city.
 
  Three days after an FIR was registered against a serving Army officer for killing three   and injuring two others, a group of eminent persons have started a social media campaign on WhatsApp appealing residents to stop feeding dogs since it prompts canines to attack commuters on the streets. Coming out strongly against dog lovers who feed strays, members of the group also said that those wanting to give food should do in their homes and not endanger the lives of others.
  
   , a group member and professor at the Jawahar Lal Nehru University in Delhi, said, “Stray dogs are territorial animals. They occupy the areas where they find food. With people feeding them, the canines tend to attack commuters. The elderly, children and women are more vulnerable to dog attacks.”
  
  Packs of stray dogs are seen lurking in parks and alleys. Joggers are usually seen carrying rods to chase them away even as many others carry stones in their pockets to throw at attackers.
  
  The group members also stood in support of the Army officer who said he had acted in self-defence. Saying that compassion for strays should not hold a society to ransom, Prasad said, “People feeding strays should take complete responsibility of their action and compassion should not end in harm of other people. They should either adopt the dogs or local authorities should make them liable to bear medical expenses of affected persons.”
  
  Chief Justice G Rohini, during a plea filed last year by Om Prakash Saini, a resident of Malviya Nagar in the city, said, “It was rather strange that people feed stray dogs and allow them in public spaces, causing nuisance and inconvenience to others. If you have a pet and you are feeding it, it is ok. But if you feeding stray dogs and they are causing inconvenience to others, it is not good.”
  
  Smita Nair, a researcher of elephants at the Indian Institute of Science, Benguluru, said, “Stray dogs have made it difficult to for us to walks in our localities. The cantonment area here is especially affected.”
  
  Beena Sharma cannot forget the day when her son was attacked by a pack of strays in Dalanwala area here. “The dogs attacked my son even as he was sitting between my husband and me in the motorcycle on our way to his school. The child had to be put under severe medication.”
  
  Suggesting a viable solution, Sanjiv Shrivastava, another resident who runs a meditation centre here, said, “As compassionate people, it is difficult for many of us to adopt measures such as culling in a bid to minimize canine population. But we can certainly opt for options such as   which will bring down canine population considerably.”
  
  Animal activists, in the meanwhile, blame authorities for failing to provide adequate provisions to strays. Gairi Maulekhi, member secretary of People for Animals, said, “Despite the Supreme Court and Uttarakhand High Court’s order to bring dog menace under control, no attempts were made by local bodies and municipal corporations to sterilize dogs in the state.”
  
  Yogesh Bhardwaj, veterinarian at the Nainital zoo, said, “Dogs being territorial animals will attack any outsider entering their areas, including pets and its owners. Some dogs are also agitated as speeding vehicles pass by and tend to attack drivers. During mating season, high levels of testosterone in males also incite them to attack humans.”
