MUMBAI: Is this the way to treat the widow, mother and children of an  , the   asked the Maharashtra government over its 27-year-old battle to oppose   over the ex-army officer’s death in an accident caused by a state-owned milk tanker. 

 Justice   said the state authorities had not taken steps to serve notice on Kailashchandra Kaushal’s family, which resulted in the delay in hearing. The family was deprived of compensation all these years. Justice Sonak dismissed the state’s challenge to the compensation awarded by the Motor Accidents Claims Tribunal and increased it by almost 10 times from Rs 1.65 lakh to Rs 9.75 lakh.
 
 “There is really no justification on the part of the state authorities to take no steps for almost 20 years to ensure that service is effected upon the family. Since the state was armed with an ad interim order (granting a stay on compensation), they perhaps, did not deem it necessary to take such steps,” said Justice Sonak, adding that the state’s conduct had resulted in the family being deprived of meagre compensation for over two decades. “This is not a manner in which the state must treat the widow, the aged mother and the then minor children of an ex serviceman, who died in a road accident on account of negligence of the driver of the tanker owned by the state.”
 
 The court termed as “shockingly inadequate” compensation given by   to the family. “Kailashchandra’s widow lost her husband at a relatively young age and yet MACT awarded only Rs 5,000 towards loss of consortium. The two children lost their father at a age when they required him the most, and yet MACT awarded no compensation towards loss of love and affection. Kailashchandra’s mother was also awarded no compensation for loss of love and affection. There was no award made towards loss of estate or towards funeral expenses,” said the judge, while increasing the compensation to Rs 9.75 lakh along with 8% interest. 
 
 Kailashchandra, who retired from the army, used to have a small business of transporting vegetables from Indore to Mumbai. on May 2, 1990, the day of the accident, he was driving a tempo with vegetables and his 17-year-old son Dinesh accompanied him. On the Mumbai-Agra Road, near Nashik, a milk tanker was swerving from left to right on a narrow stretch before coming to a halt. The tempo rammed into the tanker causing his death, while Dinesh escaped with minor injuries. MACT in 1995 ordered the state to pay Rs 1.65 lakh as compensation. The state filed an appeal in 1996, claiming Kailashchandra was at fault. The HC relied on Dinesh’s statement on the rash manner in which the tanker was being driven and rejected the state’s plea.
 
 
