MADURAI: The culminating event of  , the entry of   into the Vaigai, will be performed using a tank to be filled with   on May 10 as release of water from the   for the ritual is unlikely with less than a month to go for the event. An NGO is going one step further to treat the sewage released into the river four days prior to the event and avoid health risks to the people who throng the event.

 Madurai’s Chittirai festival is celebrated by people from all the southern districts. In fact, 10 lakh people converge here simultaneously to witness the deity enter the river. Many of them also tonsure their heads on the banks of the river and bathe in the flowing waters, the only time in the year other than the monsoon season when water usually flows in the river.
 
 Though there were doubts about water release from the Vaigai in the last two years, PWD did manage to release a rush flow in 2015 and 2016 and water did reach the point of entry of the deity on the day of the festival. A few years ago, when the water situation was bad, Madurai Corporation constructed a one feet high tank into which water from tankers was filled and lotus blooms set afloat so that the deity could enter the tank to fulfil the ritual.
 
 Last year however, the water level in the Vaigai dam stood at 36.60 feet on April 13 with the festival being scheduled for April 22. This year the water level of the dam was only 25.10 feet. The storage last year on the day of the water release was 670 million cubic feet, whereas today’s storage was only 212 mcft. PWD sources said that the current situation ruled out any possibility of water being released for the festival, ``but if there is a good spell of rain in the next two weeks, it may be possible,’’ they said. In 2015 the dam’s storage surged from 672 in early April to 1,310 mcft in mid April, enabling the release of a copious amount of water.
 
 K Srinivasan, a Tamil teacher, says that it is believed that the entry of Lord Kallazhagar in his golden stallion into the river ensures a prosperous year for the entire region with good rainfall followed by a good harvest.
 
 Meanwhile, the Vaigainathi Makkal Iyakkam, the river protection movement, has decided to use a liquid containing sewage decomposing bacteria to treat the sewage which is discharged into the river at the point of entry of the deity. Co-ordinator of the movement M Rajan said that an expert from Bangalore had offered to come and help them clean the river. ``We made many representations to the Madurai corporation to stop the discharge of lakhs of litres of sewage into the river at Alwarpuram predominantly from the Government Rajaji Hospital. However, they are only digging the river bed to ensure that the sewage is taken away at a faster rate from the point. Since they are not taking steps to treat or prevent the release of sewage we have decided to treat it so that the dirt in the sewage gets settled down as sediment. That way the people who converge on the river bed for the ritual will be free of health risks,’’ he said.
 
 
