MAHADHEVPUR: Two spotted deer were shot and killed by a group of poachers in  . When confronted by   late on Sunday night, poachers threatened them with guns and managed to flee in their car.

 However, the car was soon found abandoned at the dead end of a road in   by a forest department patrol team. District forest officer T Ravikiran said forest range officer Ramesh and his colleagues seized the vehicle, recovered two carcasses of spotted deer and also found an Aadhaar card in the car. There were five poachers in the car, which was coming from Palimela in the north to Mahadevpur on a forest road, when it was spotted by a patrol team led by Ramesh in the middle of the night. When challenged, the car accelerated, but Ramesh managed to block the narrow forest road with his jeep. The accused rammed into the jeep, swerved and drove away with forest department officials in hot chase. “The driver did not know which way he was going and ended up at a dead end in the village and with no option left, all ran away,“ said Ravikiran.
 
 It is suspected the five hunters, all from Hyderabad, were assisted by a local   whose wife is a ZPTC member. It's also learnt this was not the first time the TRS leader hosted a group of hunters in the district.
 
 While forest department officials could not confirm this information, they did admit since the hunters were not locals, they could not have planned their act without local help. Chief conservator of forests for Telangana government, P K Jha, said the department will take strict action irrespective of the stature or political affiliation of the accused. There is enough evidence to identify and nab the culprits. One spent cartridge was also recovered from the vehicle,“ he said.
 
 Jha said he ordered a forensic examination of the cartridge and the wounds on the deer. “We will soon know details of the weapon used in the killing,“ he said.
 
 Poachers are believed to have shot the deer in Palimela forest area near the Chhattisgarh border and were driving back to Mahadevpur.
 
 On Monday, the forest department filed cases against  , whose name figured on the Aadhaar card and four others under Sections 9,39,50,51 and 55 of Wild Life Protection Act of 1972 and the AP Forest Act of 1967 under Sections 29 and 42. The seized car and the remains of the animals and other material found in the car were produced in the Manthani court.
 
