LUCKNOW:   police station was stormed by hundreds of villagers after two persons were arrested for attacking policeman on duty on Wednesday. Earlier, a group of men attacked a   over a petty issue and later reached the Bakshi Ka Talab police station and roughed up the   and snatched his   on Tuesday night. Police registered a case and arrested five persons in this connection on Wednesday.

 According to police, constable Anuj Kumar Singh posted at Bakshi Ka Talab was returning the police station on a   on Tuesday. Around 7.30pm, as he reached the police station gate, his bike collided with another on which Sunil Kumar Singh and Shubham Singh of Mamapur Bana village of   were riding.
 
 After a brief argument, the constable asked them to show papers of their motorcycle and that led to a confrontation. It was alleged Sunil and Shubham roughed up the constable. Later, their relative identified as Sudhir Kumar and above 60 persons reached to the scene. They thrashed up the constable while pinning him down on the ground. 
 
 The personnel at the police station rushed to his rescue and detained Sunil and Shubham while their aides fled. A case was registered on the complaint of the policeman and the two were charged with rioting, hindering government official from discharging duty, rash driving on public way, thrashing policeman and issuing life threat.
 
 Those who fled reached the village and spread the news that police had put Sunil and Shubham in lock-up and were beating them brutally. The villagers reached the police station in a large number and thrashed constable Shantanu Sharma when he stopped them from entering. The personnel at the police station panicked and informed their seniors.
 
 Additional police force was rushed to control the situation. Police cane charged the   to dispel them and rounded up four who were leading the agitation and were identified as Man Singh, Sonu Singh, Manvendra Singh and Prahlad Singh.
 
 Another case for rioting, thrashing the sentry and issuing life threat was registered at the police station against the four persons and their unidentified supporters.
 
 BKT police circle officer Amita Singh said Anuj and Shantanu and sustained fractures and excessive injuries. 
 
 
