Darjeeling: Shahrukh, Salman and Akshay are almost starving in the Hills town for the last 10 days.

 They are not the Bollywood superstars visiting the  , but are poor horses who take tourists for a ride on   and have run out of their staple diet of hay, corn and barley, courtesy the indefinite strike in the Hills going on for the past 26 days.
 
 The trio is among the 17 horses that stay at the stable just beside the police outpost in the   area and according to their owners, they are now being fed only once a day, against the usual practice of thrice-a-day meal. They are only being offered plain grass instead of the usual hay and grains like corn and barley.
 
 “We had a stock for almost a week when the strike began. We had immediately halved their food. But even then, we have no food for them for the last 10 days. Now, we take them for grazing or at times arrange for bundles of grass. But we know it is far from sufficient for them,” said Bhanu Bhakta, who owns three horses.
 
 Lucky Rai, who also owns three horses, said the food stock used to come from Lachung in Sikkim, more than 160 km away. However, no truck carrying the food stock are plying now because of the strike, leaving the horses without their staple diet.
 
 The owners said that on an average, a horse, weighing around 400-450 kg, needs at least 10 kg feed every day. Since horses have small stomach compared to their size, they eat little and often. A horse kept in a stable needs food spread out, preferably three meals a day. “Horses should never go more than eight hours without food. But these days, we can feed them only once a day and that too only with grass,” said Rai.
 
 Though grass is the favourite food of horse, its regular intake by any horse that does little workout leads to ailments like obesity, equine metabolic syndrome and laminitis. No tourist in the Hills town has resulted in little exercise by the horses and no business for their owners.
 
 “We are poor people. If there is no business, how can we buy food for the horses?” Bhakta rued.
 
