BHOPAL: As children of the primitive Saharia tribe continue to die of   (400 km from  ) district of  , the TIs (thana incharge) of 18   stations in the area have gone beyond their call of duty to launch a war on the scourge of  .

 Under the leadership of Superintendent of Police (SP) Sanket Pandey, the TIs have undertaken targeted training in managing malnourished children that includes weighing, administering drugs and vitamins, as well as counselling parents. The TIs have a standing order from their SP: To send regular updates on every child under them over Whatsapp without fail.
 
 At least 19 kids died and about 160 were detected with severe malnutrition in this tribal-dominated district in August-September last year. The state government had recently admitted on the floor of the Assembly that there are 19,724 malnourished children in Sheopur.
 
 “I have a complete update on people visiting the area. Once I get a report from my TIs about any dereliction of duty on part of government employees, I would pass it on to the higher authorities, including the collector,” said SP Pandey.
 
 Every TI is supposed to visit the anganwadi centre under his jurisdiction, collect a list of malnourished children in the area. Then the police officer asks all the concerned families to gather at a place. Carrying a weighing machine, the TI reaches the spot, personally examines each and every child. If a child is found underweight, she/he is immediately sent to the hospital along with the parents. If parents are reluctant, then they are warned that a case of neglect might be registered against them. 
 
 Not just the children, but even expecting mothers are under ‘police watch’. Every thana in-charge has been told to ensure that all pregnant women consume vitamins and iron pills right in front of them. “Earlier, anganwadi workers used to give them strips of capsules. Now we have changed the system. The women are now told to consume the medicine in front of police. We don’t want any more malnourished kids to be born here,” the SP told TOI.
 
 Thanks to the police’s campaign, awareness levels have increased among the tribals. The number of hospitalization cases have grown from 70 to 138 in just 10 days following the launch of the fightback.
 
 Following the police’s involvement and efforts, officials of the state health as well as women and child development departments have woken up from their deep slumber. Attendance levels have gone up at health centres – especially after the police having threatened concerned officials with slapping of criminal cases if they fail to deliver.
 
 “Police itni buri bhi nahi hain jitna log samajhte hain (the police is not as bad as people think them to be),” said the SP. The 18 thana incharges have adopted 80 villages till now.
 
 Madhya Pradesh has the second highest malnutrition rate, highest infant mortality rate and the second highest under-5 mortality rate in India.
 
