PANAJI:   (BJP) will conduct its   in four phases for the last 16 days in the run-up to the February 4 polls to galvanize voters about development and good governance goals achieved in the last five years. 

 BJP, which is targeting to win at least 26 of the 40 seats in the state assembly, will have Prime Minister   as its star campaigner. The PM is also likely to address a rally in Goa on January 28.
 
 The party has extensive plans to reach out to over 11 lakh voters across 40 constituencies to ensure that success stories of the government headed by chief minister   is conveyed to every household in the state. A senior BJP leader said the party will be able to swing voters in its favour with its detailed campaign strategy.
 
 Canvassing activities set to begin from Monday will include door-to-door campaigns, statewide leaders’ meetings, addresses by party national president Amit Shah and rallies with top national leaders in attendance.
 
 The first phase, scheduled from January 16 to January 19, will see around 20 booth-level workers go on door-to-door visits across the state. They will distribute booklets highlighting development works done by the incumbent government in the last five years.
 
 The second phase, set to continue till January 22, will see state BJP leaders including Union defence minister Manohar Parrikar, CM Parsekar, union AYUSH minister Shripad Naik, state BJP president Vinay Tendulkar, deputy CM Francis D’ Souza and South Goa MP Narendra Sawaikar address meetings across Goa.
 
 Shah is likely to address about four public meetings in the third phase beginning on January 23. Senior leaders said the exact number of meetings to be addressed by him is yet to be finalized.
 
 In the final phase beginning on January 27, BJP will bring its star campaigner PM Modi to address public rallies in the state. 
 
 Home minister Rajnath Singh, Maharashtra CM Devendra Fadnavis, urban development minister Venkaiah Naidu, transport minister Nitin Gadkari, Nirmala Sitharaman, Smriti Irani, Anant Kumar and other leaders are also likely to be in attendance.
 
