What is it about the big, dark expanse of   — with its galaxy of stars, planets and other mysteries — that have been capturing human interest for the longest time ever! From trying to find out galactic secrets to plans of flying humans to the moon or even watching the fascinating celestial bodies all the way from Earth, there is a constant attempt to learn everything people can about the vast beyond. To mark this, the first Friday of May is dedicated to the wonders of space, bringing science boffins from around the world, together. Have you too, always fantasised to go where no man has gone before? A few Hollywood movies have beaten you to that. On the fun holiday of International Space Day today, check out a list of the most popular space-based films. Settle down on the sofa, grab the popcorn and embark on a fun ride...
 
 
  
 
 
 The   film, is a heart-rending journey of Mark Watney ( ) who gets stranded on Mars after his crew leaves the planet, thinking him to be dead. With a bare minimum supply of water and food, he must outmanoeuvre space’s greatest survival hurdles.
 
 
 
 This space odyssey saw a team of explorers, who travelled through a wormhole in space to search for a new home after Earth, plagued by disease. The cinematic moments leave you spellbound — from rocky planets to tides that are as high as mountains.
 
 
  
  
 A visually profound sci-fi adventure, this film, starring   and   is a tale of how two astronauts have to struggle to survive after an accident leaves them floating in space. Earth looming in the far distance is something you won’t forget.
 
 
  
  
 Comedy and sci-fi? Yes, that was the combination in this Martin Freeman romp through space, once he learns that the Earth may being destroyed to build an intergalactic freeway. Hordes of fans loved Freeman and his alien companion, on their space adventure.
 
 
  
  
 Action director Luc Besson’s futuristic fantasy sees cab driver   battle forces as he tries to keep a ‘fifth element’ safe. A thrilling ride, this one is about mid-air chases, flying cars, four stones representing the four elements and punk rock villains galore!
 
 
  
  
 This thrill-a-minute fanstasy has a computer geek and the US President trying to save mankind from space invaders. It has some great shots — remember the eerie shadow falling across the lunar surface, the absolute mayhem after the alien invasion and fireballs sweeping skyscrapers?
 
 
  
  A lunar mission goes awry when a technical glitch forces spacecraft Apollo 13 to return to Earth. With a stellar cast of  , Kevin Bacon, Gary Sinise and Bill Paxton, the film presents a fantastic narration of space and technology and the struggle that the astronauts go through to get back.
 
 
  
  
 A secret military team has to unlock the code to a newly-discovered Stargate in Egypt. Said to be a gateway to an ancient world, it has puzzling hieroglyphics that they must decipher. The film consists of a whole whammy of special effects and characters such as Ra and a Nubian princess. 
 
 
  
  
 This sci-fi horror spawned generations of fans! How many of you felt a chill rush through your spine to see that alien embryo? From a call made from a deserted spaceship to shape-shifting shadows, lurking creatures and scary silences, the film told a frightening tale of what might lie beyond Earth.
 
 
  
  
 The film has been described in so many ways — ‘best intergalactic space adventure, ‘epic space opera franchise’ and more, but to every Star Wars fan there is, the movie is a saber-wielding delight. Its opening line, ‘A long time ago, in a galaxy far, far away…’ will go down in moviedom history forever. 
 
 
 
 
 
