KOLKATA: On a day the state BJP marches to Lalbazar protesting against the deteriorating law and order situation in Bengal, chief minister   will call on Prime Minister   in New Delhi “on the demands of the state”. The meeting on Thursday, which the CM described as a “courtesy call”, will come ahead of Banerjee’s two-day deliberations in the national capital with Congress chairperson   and other opposition leaders on the forthcoming presidential polls.

 “If I get an appointment either today or tomorrow, I will discuss the   and will ask for funds to deal with the problem of river erosion. There are some areas where we are not getting funds. I will talk on that. I meet the PM at least once or twice a year whenever I go to Delhi. That is our routine and that is a courtesy. That’s why I have asked for his time,” the CM said before catching an afternoon flight to New Delhi on Wednesday. 
 
 Later in the day, sources confirmed that the PMO had agreed to her request and fixed a meeting with the PM around 3pm on Thursday.
 
 The Modi-Mamata meeting comes in the backdrop of the Bengal CM intensifying her efforts to put up a consensus candidate for President. 
 
 Banerjee will meet Sonia Gandhi and other opposition leaders on Friday to finalise a common non-BJP candidate. Among the names doing the rounds as consensus opposition candidates are former Bengal Governor Gopalkrishna Gandhi and former Lok Sabha Speaker Meira Kumar. Banerjee shares excellent personal rapport with both. Gandhi seems to be the choice of Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar and CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury as well. 
 
 In her first round of meeting with Sonia Gandhi on May 16, the   chief had indicated her preference for a consensus candidate for Rashtrapati Bhavan. Even as she assured the Congress chief of her support to a common opposition candidate, Banerjee pitched for a consensus candidate to emerge from the government’s side. The NDA, however, hasn’t indicated its preferences till now. 
 
 “While the forthcoming presidential polls will top the agenda, Didi has already indicated that she is unwilling to name anyone as the consensus opposition candidate before the ruling NDA spells out its candidate. She will not close the doors for even a consensus to emerge among the ruling and opposition block,” a senior Trinamool leader said. 
 
 President Pranab Mukherjee’s term ends on July 24 and the election has to take place before that.
 
 
