PUNE: At the Syngenta crossing, a scooter rider was taking a U-turn when she was knocked down by a motorcyclist speeding down the wrong side of the road a few months ago. As she lost her balance, the two-wheeler fell on her and she fractured her leg. For no fault of hers, the 37-year-old was bed-ridden for three days and had to go on medical leave from work for another week. The offending biker zoomed off from the spot without even a cursory glance, she recalled. 

 Two years ago, her office colleague had suffered a similar fate. He fractured his arm when a vehicle hit his motorbike as he turned out of the lane leading from his office onto  . The colleague was forced to go on a three-day leave, apart from several trips to the hospital. 
 
 Saturday night’s incident, wherein motorist stabbed a techie on being confronted for driving in the wrong direction on  , has made those living and working in Baner Road area think about the fact that the problem is much the same in their case. If anything, with the number of vehicles increasing over the past two years, it has become worse.
 
 While it was just a few sneaky bikers earlier, residents says, now those driving four wheelers, autorickshaws, trucks, water tankers, even school buses/vans recklessly drive on the wrong side. Residential blocks around commercial pockets in the area are especially prone to the problem, which increases the risk for other road users, especially pedestrians. According to those affected, the traffic police around the area does not seem to take the matter seriously either.
 
 “The police need to act tough against those driving on the wrong side of the road, maybe by suspending their licenses. As an elderly pedestrian, I dread to cross Baner Road at all times of the day,” said local resident Deepak Gogate, who was hit by a speeding motorcyclist driving against the flow of traffic near the   branch in November 2014. Even now, Gogate is forced to wear a cervical collar and elbow braces to support the injuries he sustained back then.
 
 Strict enforcement of rules is the only way to improve the situation, believes Tushar Sapre, another resident of the area. “Handing out red roses to offenders is pointless. We need the corporators, mayor and the police establishment to be strict while enforcing rules. Sometimes, police personnel man the road junctions but they are either lax about enforcing rules or are outnumbered,” he said.
 
 The traffic police in the area, however, says it is working all over Baner, Aundh and surrounding areas to check the menace. Kamalakar Takawale, in-charge of Chatushrungi traffic division, said, “We have noticed that the tendency of wrong-side driving increases in the afternoon when traffic wardens take a break. We have put up information boards and patrol vehicles move around the area all through the day.”
 
 Traffic rules are for the safety of road users, not for the police to stop the offenders to issue challans, asserted Kalpana Baravkar, deputy commissioner of police, traffic. “It’s unfortunate that wrong-side driving is rampant around schools and colleges. The bigger problem is that those caught even argue that they were in the right. This casual attitude about breaking rules reflects the offenders’ mentality,” she said.
 
 Baravkar confirmed that the traffic police will launch a sustained drive from Wednesday to check the menace. 
 
