BENGALURU: Shikha A has been using   from Whitefield to her   for almost a year. She says she used to travel by   before deciding to carpool, a cheap and faster way to commute. Shikha and thousands of others who carpool in Bengaluru every day are in a fix following the transport department’s decision to ban app-based ridesharing services UberPOOL and OlaShare starting this Friday.

 After a meeting with the transport commissioner on Monday, both Uber and Ola agreed to halt ride-sharing services as they have been termed illegal. Officials have said cabs could be detained for violating the contract carriage norms, which only allow for multiple passengers to be picked up from a point and dropped at a specific point.
 
 Thousands of commuters rely on ride-sharing to get to work as it is both affordable and fast. Now, most will either have to take an auto or drive to work. Sagnik Basu, who travels to MG Road from RT Nagar, may have to return to his old transport mode, bus. “The best part of UberPOOL or OlaShare is that they’re cheap, convenient and comfortable. Earlier, I had to change two buses to reach office and they would usually be very crowded during peak hours. Why does the government always have to take steps that only pushes our expenses?” he said.
 
 “With the existing traffic scene in the city, driving is a pain. The only fear I have is that the travel time will be more. I have to complete nine hours of work and rush home,” said Shikha, a technology firm employee.
 
 Most employees of companies located in Marathahalli, Whitefield, MG Road, Koramangala and Indiranagar carpool to work. “Most of my friends either use UberPool or OlaShare. They are economical and convenient. We also get to know new people on our way to work every day,” said Sriram Ramesh.
 
 The two companies have asked for three days to modify their software which will only allow a cab to pick the riders from one point and drop them at a specific point.
 
 
 
 
 “We will like to reiterate that UberPOOL is clearly within the law. We will continue to engage with the transport department and Karnataka government. Ridesharing services such as UberPOOL are the future of urban mobility, helping decongest cities by getting more people into fewer cars and letting riders move around their city more affordably | Uber statementSTORY 2:
 
 Shared mobility key to cut carbon emissions: Report
 
 As carpooling services face a ban in India’s IT capital, the latest study by International Transport Forum (ITF) says the existing and foreseeable policies to cut carbon emissions from global transport activities will not be enough to achieve the international community’s climate ambitions.
 
 The ITF Transport Outlook 2017 says that continued strong growth in demand for mobility would mean that even in the optimistic scenarios the carbon footprint from transportation in 2050 will still be at 2015 levels of around 7.5 giga-tonnes. It puts the onus of creating robust mass transit systems and bringing radical changes in policies to make transport sustainable, including shared mobility.
 
 Shared mobility can be done by carpooling, wherein a car owner shares his vehicle with others. Ride-sharing has stemmed out of carpool system.
 
 The report predicts highest growth in car share (ownership) in Asia — 40% of 1.5 times the 2015 level, with China and India topping the region. Even in baseline scenario, the doubling of global transport demand will lead to 60% increase in carbon dioxide emissions between 2015 and 2050.
 
 “We need to accelerate and make radical policy choices to decarbonize transport. Technology will provide 70% of the possible reductions of carbon footprint to 2050. The rest will come from doing things differently and this is where there is still a lot of potential. We need to think more about shared mobility, new transport modes etc,” says ITF secretary general Jose Viegas.
 
 Raghu Ramanujam, founder of app-based carpooling service provider PoolCircle in Bengaluru, says, “Ban on shared mobility is not the answer. Ride sharing in any form is good — reduces cost of travel, traffic and pollution. Government must put in place strong regulations for passenger security in shared cabs. And what is this ambiguity — while Bengaluru traffic police promotes carpooling, transport department calls ride- sharing illegal.”
 
 Urban transportation analyst Pawan Mulukutla, however, says, “While ride-sharing is futuristic, there is a need to have a regulatory framework, ban is not the answer. Whenever there is an innovation in this sector, government should act fast to create the rules, that will be a win-win for citizens, government and the business model.”
 
 “It should focus on who are the people who are taking these trips. A recent study has revealed that ride-sharing is most preferred by bus users. And that is not the trend we should vouch for. Ride-sharing is a solution to reduce private vehicles on roads than an alternative to public transport. Uber and Ola should share data about people who are sharing rides and where is the shift happening to take forward the discourse with the government.”
 
