THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Chief minister   told the assembly on Wednesday that power minister M M Mani did not insult the women who had taken part in the   agitation in Munnar. Police investigations have also not found any attempt by the minister to interfere in or obstruct the duties of officials. Hence, there was no circumstance to register a case against him, he said. 

 The investigation was conducted by the Munnar DSP, following a complaint by opposition leader  . The probe report said that there was no evidence to register a case against Mani, Vijayan said.
 
 "The media distorted Mani's speech by airing a portion of it. This created the confusion. But those people who had earlier criticised Mani later changed their opinion after realising the truth. I have never criticised Mani. I had only said that I will inquire into the comments made by him," said the chief minister. It is not correct to say that the government was reluctant to take action against Mani. 
 
 When the complaint against Mani was probed, it became evident that he did not do anything for the police to register a case against him. The government has not even considered the privilege of he being a minister in this issue, said Vijayan.
 
 The government will always give protection to the officials while performing their duties and at no point of time the government will disown them. No minister in the LDF government will act against the interest of the performing officials, he added.
 
 The police acted promptly on the complaint by   that there was a threat to his life. The home department also had ordered a probe into the complaints that police did not respond promptly on the complaint by the MLA. The probe did not find any truth in the complaint.
 
 On a question on the money spent by the government to fight the case against DGP T P Senkumar, the chief minister said: "There was no reason to hide the details of the expense from the people. But I don't have the details now. I will present it before the house soon."
 
