SINDRI: The management of the   and the officials of the   ( ) have locked horns over the allotment of houses under the Centre’s Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojna (PMAY) on the factory land. 

 While the civic body said it has allotted land to the beneficiaries within the factory compound as they lived there for many years the factory management has filed an FIR both against the municipal officials as well as the beneficiaries claiming they have encroached upon the factory property. It has also approached the district administration demanding immediate ban on construction process. 
 
 The DMC has allotted 60 houses under PMAY to residents of Manohartand village, which falles under Ward 53 of the DMC. The villagers were displaced in 1950 when the district administration acquired their land for the factory. But, since the factory management failed to rehabilitate them, the displaced villagers were living on campus without any land document.
 
 When the villagers started building permanent houses on the factory land, the management objected to it and filed complaints. But despite several written complaints to local police, district administration and the Dhanbad Municipal Corporation, construction work was going on in full swing.
 
 “We have always treated Manohartand village as an encroachment on our land and the villagers have no document to show that the land belongs to them,’’ said Debdas Adhikary, the unit in-charge of Sindri fertiliser factory. He alleged that the municipal authority was wilfully allowing encroachment on the factory land by allotting houses to the villagers under the PMAY. 
 
 “According to the government rules, the PMAY should be allotted to landless villagers on government land and to land-owning villagers on their existing land. But in gross violation of government rules, the DMC is getting houses constructed at a new place by allowing further encroachment upon our land,” Adhikary added. 
 
 However, Dhanbad mayor Chandra Shekhar Agrawal justified the DMC decision. He said the beneficiaries have shown them the papers wherein the factory management has allowed them to reside on the land. “The entire Sindri township in under unauthorised occupation but the factory management has no objection towards them as they are rich and capable. The factory management has objection over poor villagers only,” he alleged
 
 Officer in-charge (Sindri) Arvind Kumar said that no case has been lodged so far on the basis of the written report filed by the fertiliser factory management as both the complainant and the accused are government entities.
 
