ALLAHABAD: Keeping an eye on the ensuing municipal   in  , All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul Muslimeen (AIMIM) has decided to focus on wards which are   in Lucknow, Allahabad, Kanpur, Varanasi, Agra, Ghaziabad and Bareilly. 

 The party has intensified the exercise to build its base by targeting the Muslim vote bank of rival camps and inducting more and more people in its fold through social media and door-to-door campaign.
 
 AIMIM has also activated its women's wings with a hope to secure a victory in the civic polls scheduled to be held in September or October.
 
 AIMIM city president Afsar Mahmood told TOI that the party would contest the municipal elections where its organizational structure is strong. A survey is being held city-wise. The party would focus on Muslim-dominated wards. "We would also contest on seats reserved for women and Dalit," he said.
 
 In Allahabad, the party has identified 22 out of 80 wards. AIMIM has already started preparations. All the 22 wards selected by the party has sizeable strength of Muslim voters. The volunteers of the party are approaching the people and highlighting various issues, including closure of slaughterhouses. AIMIM had already launched a campaign against the closure of slaughterhouses across the state, Mahmood said. 
 
 District president, youth wing, Iftkhar Ahmad said that the party is making efforts to attract youth into its fold. AIMIM is looking forward to expand its base in UP. He said that the party is capable of springing surprises.
 
 AIMIM leaders said that the rival camps are point fingers towards AIMIM, calling it the B-team of BJP, responsible for division of secular votes. But we have been focusing to strengthen the base and successful to grab the attention of people of the state, they said.
 
 The party's strategy is focussed on identifying its vote bank and contesting on limited seats as it did in Maharashtra. AIMIM also plans to woo Dalit voters in reserved wards. The party leaders blamed that Dalits have always been neglected by the so-called secular parties.
 
 
