BENGALURU: Karnataka has seen a   so far, with two districts in the   receiving scanty rain. In 18 other districts, including Bengaluru Urban and Rural, it has been deficient. This makes the next 20 days crucial as they will decide whether the state can escape another drought year.

 On Monday, farmers from   held a meeting with government officials demanding that 2017 also be declared a drought year.Siddappa Sannappa Appaji, 51, who owns 2.25 acres of land, told TOI: “Our fields are dry and our livestock have no feed, and a government official tells us he needs a circular from the government before declaring drought.“
 
 According to the Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre, two important farming districts -Mandya (-63%) and Chamarajanagara (-64%) -are the worst hit, having recorded scanty rain between June 1 and July 9.
 
 Bengaluru Urban (-42%) and Rural (-39%) districts fall in the `deficient' category .The list includes all four districts in the Malnad region of the lush Western Ghats. However, the three coastal districts of Dakshina Kannada (-18%), Udupi (-7%) and Uttara Kannada (-7%) have received normal rainfall.
 
 According to the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD), if rain is less or more by up to 19% of the 50-year average expected rainfall, it is still considered normal, a dip or increase of 19% to 59% is seen as excess or deficient and anything between 60% and 99% is more than excess or scanty.
 
 Doddaullarathi Kariappa, a farmer leader in Challakere, Chitradurga, said the district has been reeling under drought for nine consecu tive years. Farmers are in debt while prices are going up. Chitradurga, part of an arid region in Karnataka, has recorded a deficit of 43%.
 
 While Vijayapura, Bagalkot and Yadgir have received normal rain, four districts -Bidar, Koppal, Raichur and Kalaburagi, all in the Hyderabad-Karnatak region -have received more than their share of it (excess). Maruti Manpade, a farmer leader in Bidar, said: “Initial showers prompted us to complete sowing. However, there has been no rain since then and July has been dry . If we go without rain for the next four days, our crops will go waste.“
 
 Shankara M, 41, from Ha lebudanuru village, said the government's drought-relief measures don't even cover 10% of their input cost. “It has been two years since we've had good yield, and Mandya has never seen such a drought. I have received Rs 4,000 for the four acres I have,“ rued Chennaiah M, another middle-aged small farmer.
 
 Prema Manjunath, 52, who owns 32 guntas, and Puttaswamy Thimmegowda, 60, who possesses 12 guntas, are forced to work as labourers. “Since Oct-Nov, we have not received a single drop of water from the Krishnaraja Sagar reservoir.With rain also failing, Mandya looks like like Ballari or Raichur,“ said Siddappa.
 
 
 
 
 All hopes are now on the remaining days of July, during which Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted at least 90% rainfall.Officials blamed insufficient depressions in the Bay of Bengal for less rain in June.
 
 B Puttanna, former deputy director, IMD (Bengaluru), said July is usually when peninsular India receives the maximum rainfall (during southwestern monsoon). “The first 10 days have not seen good rain, which makes the next 20 days crucial. Though there are indications of good rain, if it fails even this monsoon will be deficient. Rain in August and Sept will not be able to compensate.“
 
