What would happen if a botany student, a design engineer and a sales executive converge for a cause? An   in support of jallikattu. The   at the Marina began with a handful of youngsters passionate about native livestock breeds -strangers to each other but united in their cause.

 Though most of them are not from districts where jallikattu is held, they say rural Tamil life has been challenged by institutions like PeTA. They say the Tamil identity has been threatened by the central government and the Supreme Court and jallikattu is a symbol for that identity . The simmering indignation has now erupted as anger against chief minister O Pannerselvam and AIADMK general secretary V K Sasikala, who the protesters see as inefficient in protecting rural Tamil life. These two leaders have become the targets of most of the slogans.
 
 Vishnu Nath, 23, a post-graduate student of botany at the University of Madras, says he was one among the first few to come to the Marina opposite Vivekanandar Illam on Tuesday morning. He said the 50 people who had gathered then had no political affiliation. They were students and youngsters passionate about organic farming and native breeds.
 
 Vishnu, who hails from a family in Virudhunagar that had agricultural roots, said, “Out of my passion for native livestock breeds, I joined in several Facebook and WhatAspp groups created by like-minded people. These groups have been around for six years.“
 
 It was in one such group that the members decided to start the protest, he said.
 
 “They say an earthworm is a farmer's friend. But even earthworms thrive in the dung of native cattle.It is the main source of vermicompost which makes the soil fertile,“ he said. Vocal in his criticism of the green revolution and genetically-modified crops, Vishnu said he has come to the protest in spite of having his final project review in two months.
 
 Though the idea that jallikattu is the only way to save native cattle breeds has been challenged, the protesters say jallikattu is one potent way to do so.
 
 The members of the group did not encourage celebrities who came to the venue to support them.Meeran, 22, a native of Madurai who was protesting, said, “We sent back politicians and filmstars who came to address the gathering.“ But, actor   has now become the group's voice. “That is because he joined the protests as one among us,“ said a member of the group.
 
 Interestingly , several members have no agricultural background. Siranjeevi, 27, hailing from Dharmapuri, was also among the first who gathered to protest. An engineer in an automobile firm, he said, “We have remained silent. But they have interfered with our culture.“
 
 The space on the pavement opposite Vivekanandar Illam, where these people first gathered, has now become an epicentre of sorts. It has been marked by barricades, inside which food, water and medicines are stocked. It is on the parapet wall adjacent to this that people stand and address the gathering.
 
