CHENNAI: In a rare case of a politician hanging up his boots, former   leader  , who joined the   in 2012 as deputy propaganda secretary, has decided to retire from public life. On Tuesday, he returned to the party the Innova SUV that   had presented him. 

 “Till now I did not have time to read books. From now on I will be going back to my native house near Padmanabhapuram palace in Kanyakumari district and start reading as well as writing more books. I have had enough of politics,” he said.
 
 Sampath came to the AIADMK headquarters in the morning and gave the SUV keys to a party official. “Without any campaign if I still have the vehicle I will be accused of using it for my own use,” said Sampath.
 
 “I returned the car which was given by Amma as there is no campaign in the coming months. I used the vehicle only during the campaign in the 2014 Lok Sabha elections and the 2016 Assembly elections for the AIADMK,” Sampath told TOI.
 
 Sampath was a noted orator and has been doing public speaking for three Dravidian parties since 1986. Belonging to Kanyakumari district, Sampath has completed MA and MPhil degrees. 
 
 Exactly on the same day in 2016, Jayalalithaa removed him from the post of deputy propaganda secretary after she came to know about his cryptic remark to a Tamil news channel. He said elephants would not stop walking because ants would be trampled, which earned him the wrath of the leadership. But after some months Sampath was re-appointed deputy propaganda secretary. 
 
 Sampath quit the DMK and joined forces with Vaiko in 1993 when he launched the MDMK. “I am not going to knock on the DMK’s doors and that is why I said I am retiring from public life. Henceforth I will be speaking in book fairs and other private functions. On January 11, I will be speaking at   book fair inauguration,” he said. 
 
 Sampath is a published author. He has authored books like Illakkiya Poonga, Pathilukku Pathil, Peasap Perithum Iniyavan , Ennai Thotta NSK and Naan Pesa Ninaiththathellam. 
 
 
