BHUBANESWAR: Celebrities have been lending their charisma to stop  . Now the city has turned to   to stop this   in their localities. 

 The children have started creating awareness on open defecation and are chasing away people practising it. 
 
 The Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation's (BMC) Swachh Bharat Abhijan cell has formed a squad called 'Banar Sena' comprising 20 children (10 children in each group of two) to launch door-to-door campaign and convince each member of a slum household in Bhubaneswar Town Centre District (BTCD) area. The BTCD is 985 acre earmarked for redevelopment under the  . 
 
 Feedback Foundation, a private agency engaged by Bhubaneswar Smart City Limited (BSCL), which is monitoring the open defecation free movement in the city trained the children on how to interact with the people and check open defecation. 
 
 While one group sets out on the 'mission open defecation free' in the morning, the other group launches the campaign in the evening. "When children stop the people from going to the field for defecation, it is a bit embarrassing for the people. So, the success rate is more," said Saswati Mishra, corporator of Sahid Nagar. 
 
 Sambhu Nayak, a class VI student said they enjoy sensitizing people about sanitation and hygiene. "We have the instance of a private security guard coming under the wheels of a train while defecating. We were told about this in our training. I think such incidents can be avoided if people become a little more disciplined," she said. 
 
 The BMC has formed another group called Nigrani committees (surveillance squad) among slum dwellers to stop open defecation. To inspire other people to use the toilet, a 70-year old woman volunteer Pramila Patra from a slum in Bapuji Nagar, has constructed her own toilet. Pramila is now one of the women spreading awareness on open defecation free society in her locality. "She has set an example," said Mahamaya Swain, corporator of Bapuji Nagar area Mahamaya Swain. Using the two squads, the BMC hopes to stop open defecation in all the 24 slums (in four wards) coming under BTCD. 
 
 
