Over the years, NXT pay-per-view TakeOver has become a must-watch show and Takeover Chicago to be held this Saturday will be no different, with four titles on the line. We look at the solid match card for the event and try to predict who will come out on top. 
 
 
 
  
 Bobby Roode has held on to the NXT Championship for well over 100 days after winning the title from Shinsuke Nakamura at San Antonio and then went on to defend the title against the King of Strong Style at TakeOver Orlando and he gets a worthy opponent in the returning Hideo Itami in his fourth TakeOver appearance. This will Itami's third TakeOver and looks fit enough to put up a strong match against the Glorious Champion. Itami heads in to the main event with a clear upper hand after hitting two Go To Sleeps on Roode in consecutive NXT tapings. Roode, on the other hand, will rely on his far superior psychological game to get the better of the Japanese star. Roode is getting in to his element as a NXT champion and considering he is one of the few heel characters in the show now, among a plethora of babyface contenders, WWE will look to keep the title on Roode and continue the program with Itami at least for the next pay-per-view.
  
 
 Bobby Roode to retain NXT Championship
 
  
  
 
 
  
 The much-awaited NXT Women's Championship defence will surely be the highlight of the show as Asuka was not in action in the last TakeOver at Orlando. What makes this match even more intriguing is that the undefeated Auska faces genuine title contenders Nikki Cross and Ruby Riot. It is unfortunate that Ember Moon misses out here owing to a shoulder injury but what this means is Asuka will be at the dominant best with Cross and Riot putting in an interesting sub-plot going after each other. Auska will in all probability retain her title but Cross, Riot and Auska will surely tear the house down. 
  
 
  Auska to retain NXT Women's Championship
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
 The last time these two teams locked horns - TakeOver Orlando in a triple threat match with The Revival in the fray - it was one hell of match. Prior to that. At San Antonio these two teams put on a match of the year worthy performance. This TakeOver, the titles will be hanging on top of the ring with ladders in the fray and once again this match has the potential to be the match of the event. Johnny Gargano and Tommaso Ciampa are the crowd favourite but have done little after losing the belts to Akam and Rezar last November. On the other hand, AOP have steamrolled competition and it looks like Authors of Pain will emerge victorious with seeds of dissention being planted between Gargano and Ciampa. 
  
 But a legit injury to Ciampa two days ago during a live show has cast shadows on this match. However, there is no official word yet about Ciampa's injury, which means the match should go ahead as planned. 
  
 
 The Authors of Pain to retain NXT Tag Team Championship
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
 It was quite surprising that the WWE United Kingdom Championship Match was not defended at TakeOVer Orlando but with adding this title to the NXT card is the right move by WWE. Whatever we have seen of UK wrestling in the United Kingdom Championship tournament and sporadic appearances of Bate, the UK style of wrestling is refreshing. The ?Catch-as-catch-can might not be flamboyant, but is a treat to watch and Bate has showcased that superbly during his two NXT title defences against Trent Seven and Jack Gallagher. But in Pete, Bate gets a different opponent who will be more rugged in his approach. The Bruiserweight is no showman and will fight ugly. The repeat of the UK Championship tournament final is going to be a very good match, and considering the fact Dunne was the centrepiece in during the UK Championship tournament, we could see a title change. Keeping in mind the UK will be getting their own show, a new champion bodes well for the same. 
  
 
 Pete Dunne to win WWE United Kingdom Championship
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
 A match that has been added to the card reminds one of the Tye Dillinger feud with Sanity. After Dillingers's promotion to SamckDown Live, Sanity had to pick up a fight and Strong seemed to be the idle foe. Similar to Dillinger storyline, Young needs a win here to keep the program running, and interface from Alexander Wolfe and Kilian Dane might prove costly for the Messiah of the backbreakers. The program will continue with a loss to Strong until he gets himself in line for a title shot 
  
 
 Eric Young beats Roderick Strong 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
