VIJAYAWADA: Chief minister   has a packed schedule during his eight-day US trip from May 4. Apart from signing MoUs with various global firms, he is also scheduled to interact with 300 chief executive officers (CEOs) during the tour, including Tim Cook.

 Communications advisor Parakala Prabhakar held a press meet on Saturday, detailing the schedule. He said three sister state agreements will be made with California, Iowa and Illinois states of the US. “An MoU will be inked with the University of Iowa, which is known for its advanced research in agriculture. Similarly, California is ahead in information technology, while Illinois has advanced financial services. The MoUs will help   in adopting latest technologies,” he observed. Another MoU will also be signed between AP and California on the subject ‘global climate leadership’.
 
 Parakala further said that the CM will meet various global leaders in aerospace and defence sectors. Field visits to Apple, Tesla, Cisco, Oracle, Google and other firms have also been scheduled between May 4 and May 8. “The CM will also meet the CEO of Flextronics Mike McNamana and global CEO of Oracle Safra Catz,” he added. “A key meeting is scheduled on May 8 in which CM and other members of the delegation will attend a dinner hosted by CEO of Cisco John Chambers. Top rung officials of major firms including Apple CEO Tim Cook, Facebook chief operating officer Sheryl Sandberg, Google CEO Sundar Pichai, Oracle’s cofounder   and others will participate,” Parakala said.
 
 Naidu will interact with most of CEOs and COOs in bilateral and group meetings. On May 9, the delegation will meet with the representatives of Standford University, University of Dallas and other varsities. During the tour, the CM will also participate in the US –   Council’s (USIBC) Annual West Coast Summit, 2017 and TiEcon 2017 Summit. At the USIBC’s summit, Naidu will receive ‘Transformative Chief Minister’ award. Naidu along with son and IT minister Nara Lokesh, finance minister Yanamala Ramakrishnudu and 14 other IAS and IPS officers will leave for US on May 3. 
 
 
