It’s official. South Mumbai’s restaurantscape has shaken off its snooty somnolence and begun to rock. In spite of being a SoBo resident, I’ve always loved the energy, vibrance and endless restaurant openings of the suburbs. Thankfully, SoBo is catching up. From the uber-glam Kode and POH to the brand-new Plenty. Several months ago,   opened quietly. It snuggles next to Indigo and replaces Nikhil Chib’s Busaba. I dined in Lemon Leaf, just before leaving for NYC. It was a happy surprise. Not only was it the same team of Aoi (the unpretentious Bandra Japanese restaurant, which I enjoyed and which shut down) but also they had ensured the same unpretentious charm in Colaba’s Lemon Leaf. And this is exactly what (the well-travelled owners of two farms and school for rural adivasis) Nina and   appreciated. As did Aruna Jehangir who runs an Ayurvedic centre in Goa six months of the year. Our review follows.

 
 
 Vibrant, busy and welcoming ambiance. The small two-levelled space looks and feels much larger than it did in its Busaba days. Contrasting colours, bookshelves, modern Asian pop art, graffiti walls, knick-knacks, hanging airplanes, orange sofa… lovely!
 
 
 
 Succulent and vibrant, their spin on the traditional bao is enlivened with pickled vegetables and Gochujang Mayo. Plenty for vegetarians: From black pepper-sauced Crispy Lotus Root Fritters Bird Eye Chili Sauce sparkles the Cottage Cheese and Crackling Spinach. Delightfully refreshing and delicately flavoured fish in lemongrass, steamed in banana leaf paired with Coconut Rice. Superbly dressed and crunchy Cucumber Salad. Delicious creamy black Sesame ice cream delighted. As did the Dark Chocolate with Sea Salt. So what if we’d never heard of the Filipino Chicken Sisig but enjoyed its robust flavours, bacon et al.
 
 
 
 Why was the Khao Suey so sweet? And why were the condiments not enough? Sadly, the Sushi was not at par with Aoi’s. Slushy Katsu Curry. Overdone Wasabi Prawns though paired with a yum mango salad. Overfried oversweet Chocolate Sushi. 
 
 
 
 Filipino Chicken Sisig anyone? This comforting stalwart chicken dish with bacon and eggs says it all. Lemon Leaf keeps Pan-Asia as its compass but blurs boundaries to please Indian palates and does that well. It’s a pleasing, relaxed neighbourhood eatery with plenty of comforting tasty food at very comforting prices. 
 
