KOLKATA: A central Kolkata woman who had booked an app-cab to return home from her daughter’s school at Kankurgachi on Saturday morning was shocked to be flooded with “vulgar” calls.

 According to the complaint, the victim, once home, kept receiving sleazy calls, SMSes and WhatsApp messages on her cellphone. She lodged a complaint with the Kolkata Police’s cyber crime police station. Initially, the woman could not provide investigators any leads other than her own cellphone number and some of the obscene messages she was receiving.
 
 Police sources said they first started probing the origin of these lewd messages. These led them to a Facebook link and a WhatsApp group. In both, police said, the woman’s cellphone number was provided by the same person.
 
 As investigators tracked down the person to his rented home on 98B,  , around 9.45pm on Saturday, they leant he was an app-cab driver. What they didn’t realise immediately was that the person — 27-year-old Samiran Chandra Deb — was the same man who had driven the woman home in the morning. They learnt this only after interrogating Deb at Lalbazar.
 
 Police said they were baffled by the complaint in the first place. The app-cabs follow a system (number anonymity) in which the original numbers of the passengers and the drivers are masked. However, Deb told investigators that while this remains true for the first time, for the subsequent calls, the passengers’ numbers are visible to the driver. The reverse too holds true, police said.
 
 As the woman frantically tried to reach out to the driver to head home in the intermittent rain, sources said, she may have called him multiple times. Deb then accessed her number.
 
 Investigators said once she got off at Kankurgachi, Deb shared her number in two private groups — one each in Facebook and WhatsApp — of which he is a member. A provocative description of the victim led to her being inundated by calls. All calls were made by other members in these groups.
 
 Police said Deb from Bagham in Uttar Dinajpur’s Kaliagunj. His antecedents are being probed, police said.
 
 The app-cab agency was unavailable for comment.
 
 
