Bhopal: A section of Muslims in the state capital are calling for scrapping  , at a time when government appointed committee is looking into the efficacy and viability. The subsidy is given by Union government to Haj pilgrims.

 It is in the form of discounted air fares on flights operated by the national carrier.
 
 A citizen can go on pilgrimage to holy cities of Mecca and Medina in Saudi Arabia through the All India Haj committee or book his travel through private operators. Last year, the Haj committee charged Rs 1.85 lakh and Rs 2.15 lakh for a green category, per pilgrim. Compared with it private operators charged barely Rs 10,000 more in some cases.
 
 Given the diminishing margins of cost of Haj pilgrimage and political parties taking credit for the ‘subsidy’, many Muslims are demanding a total end to it.
 
 “For long there is a demand for an open and transparent global tender. It would make Haj feasible for many more people. Subsidy in the present terms by government should be stopped,” said Bhopal Qazi, Syed Mushtaq Nadvi.
 
 Competing for political credit over subsidy both Congress and BJP leaders have similar views on the issue. “The so called subsidy does not exist. The Rs 600 crore yearly Haj subsidy is working as a lifeline for the national airline. The subsidy does not benefit pilgrims,” said All India Muslim Personal Law Board member and former spokesman of MP Congress committee, Arif Masood.
 
 Decrypting the actual cost of airline is far more complicated. As per estimates airline subsidy per pilgrim worked out to be Rs 43,000 per pilgrim. Estimates peg the non-airfare assistance at around Rs 2,500.
 
 Haj committee officials admit that airline cost is more than a ticket flight due to the arrangements and other offsite costs.
 
 “Haj committee has opted for global tender. It is easy to state that cost of airline ticket is higher during the pilgrimage. We need to understand the cost incurred by airline for operating empty one-way flight and booking a charted airplane is always more expensive,” said an official seeking anonymity.
 
 Maulana Azmat Shah Makki an Islamic scholar and Qazi Shahjehanabad circle offered more Islamic reasons for not accepting subsidy. “Haj is compulsory for any Muslim who has the resources and has taken care of his family responsibilities (like marriage of his daughter). It is not prudent to perform the holy pilgrimage with subsidy. This money can be used for serving the poor and needy,” said Makki.
 
 A 2012 verdict of the Supreme Court which had ordered gradually reducing and then abolishing Haj subsidy all together in ten years.
 
 
