MEERUT: Bahujan Samaj Party supremo   traced her decision to resign from Parliament over “atrocities on Dalits“ to   quitting as law minister from the first government after Independence --a renewing of loyalty to the   mascot that framed her fresh attempt at reviving the party in the context of “Bahujan“ politics.

 If the crux of her first rally to consolidate BSP in the wake of successive electoral fiascos is any indication, the Dalit czarina is back to basics seeking to keep her hold over her home constituency with tools of mobilisation that her mentor   devised -Ambedkar, self respect and reservations.
 
 She will tour UP with large public meetings, a campaign that could culminate in Lucknow in May 2018, targeting BJP and the Modi-Yogi governments while seeking to paint them as “anti Dalit“ and against OBCs and Muslims.
 
 Recalling that she left Rajya Sabha this July after “BJP MPs and ministers did not allow me to speak“ on the “Saharanpur violence against Da lits“, Mayawati dwelt in detail that Ambedkar had quit as law minister over the dilution of Hindu Code bill to grant equality to women, poor implementation of SCST reservations and refusal to form a national commission for OBCs.
 
 Her words, nevertheless, betrayed a concern. If the fourtime CM of UP , a 2009 PM aspirant and the undisputed neta of Dalits nationally as also the byword for law and order, was having to turn the pages of history to mobilise supporters, the worries are existential.
 
 BJP's success in decimating BSP in the 2014 LS elections as well as the 2017 assembly polls has forced Mayawati back to the drawing table. The continuing saffron bid to win over a section of Dalits and tighten grip over the newfound support among MBCs (most backward classes), if successful, would erode BSP's core vote base.
 
 Returning fire, Mayawati focused her tirade on BJP and left out other rivals keeping alive talks of a “grand alliance“. She pooh-poohed allegations of corruption as an at tempt to sully her image. She spoke about “Dalit atrocities“, attempts to roll back SCST OBC reservations, the “joke“ of loan waiver of Re 1 and Rs 2 by the UP government, how “notebandi“ has hit the poor, “nonexistent law and order“ in the state, and “cow vigilantism“.
 
 The instructions to BSP workers are that her word, and “exposure of BJP“, should be taken to every nook and cranny . Later, Mayawati held a long interaction with local netas ­­ a return to her avatar as a nutsand-bolts organiser.
 
 The battle will be a long drawn out one for her, as is evident from the fact that she has prepared a nine-month calendar of public rallies.
 
