NEW DELHI: Over 100 shops were gutted and property worth several crores of rupees was destroyed in a fire that broke out in Moti Bazaar cloth market in   late on Monday night. One of the buildings collapsed an hour after the fire had been put out.

 Police received information about the fire around 10pm. Apparently the blaze was first detected by a woman,  , who saw smoke emanating from three shops in front of her house. She alerted her brother, a shop owner, and her neighbours, some of whom called the police control room as well as the 101 number of the  .
 
 Twenty fire tenders reached the site of the inferno, but discovering the magnitude of the calamity, another 10 were pressed into service. A senior fire official said that the fire fighting was hampered by the water crisis prevailing in the area. By 3 am, 40 fire engines were struggling to bring the conflagration under control, 10 more tenders having been lately deployed to boost the extinguishing operations.
 
 It was around 5.30am on Tuesday that the fire was smothered and the cooling procedure began. The good news did not last long, because a little while later, fire officials noticed flames reigniting in one of the shops, leading to renewed efforts to douse the embers.
 
 When it appeared that everything was finally under control, a building that housed over 10 shops crashed to the ground. Officials, however, confirmed that none of the firemen were injured in the building collapse, though the incident hindered the cooling process.
 
 “The fire started after an electrical short circuit in one of the shops,” disclosed a senior police officer. “It developed into a major fire that took us eight hours to douse. But there were no casualties reported, not even in the three-storey building that collapsed.”
 
 Arti Gupta’s family members said that they immediately vacated their house and rushed to the home of Gupta’s brother, whose shop was among those affected by the fire. “My brother rushed to his shop to salvage whatever was left, but by the time he reached there, everything had been burnt down,” said Gupta.
 
 Gupta also disclosed that this was not the first time she had acted as the first respondent in an incident of fire. “In another case that took place near my mother’s house in west Delhi, I was the first one to notice it and alert everyone,” she said.
 
 Talking about the daunting odds of extinguishing fires in congested areas in Delhi, senior fire officer Atul Garg, said, “There are several problems that our fire fighters face whenever there’s a fire in an area such as Chandni Chowk. As the lanes in the localities are very narrow, it takes time for the fire tenders to reach the site of the fire, more so when the fire is in an ensconced area like this one. On top of that the crowd often becomes hostile and hinders our work.”
 
 This time the shortage of water in Chandi Chowk was a big problem too, and it took a lot of time for the fire engines to replenish their water tanks.
 
 The local residents said that since the market shuts down by 9 pm, there were no people in the shops, thus preventing human casualties. Those living in the adjoining buildings were evacuated in time.
 
 
