Coimbatore: Are you making   from kitchen waste for your terrace garden? Here is some good news for you. Take a   of the compost to the organic fertiliser   on   and know its exact  . The free test can also reveal if it contains harmful chemicals.

 The agriculture department had inaugurated two   testing laboratories in April. “Though we have 14 fertiliser quality control testing laboratories, we did not have labs to exclusively test organic fertilisers,” said an agriculture department official. “It prompted the State government to set up two laboratories—one in Coimbatore and the other in Kancheepuram,” he told TOI.
 
 The laboratory, set up at a cost of Rs 75 lakh, can analyse four types of organic fertilisers—city compost, vermicompost, phosphate rich organic manure (Prom) and organic manure, said the official in charge of the lab, Vasantha Rekha. “The lab’s main aim is to identify non-standard and spurious organic fertiliser. We analyse things like particle size, bulk density, moisture content, electrical conductivity, pH, nitrogen-phosphorus-potash (NPK), organic carbon, e-coli and presence of heavy metals,” she said.
 
 The lab received 231 samples in the last six months and has analysed 162 of them. “All the samples were collected by agriculture officers across 14 districts that the lab has jurisdiction over. We have a target of 720 samples to test every year,” said Rekha. 
 
 “None of the samples were found unfit for use so ,” said another official.
 
 The State government had in 2014 announced plans to set up an organic fertiliser testing laboratory. After Kerala issued a notice to Tamil Nadu in June, 2015 regarding high pesticide content in vegetables from here, officials had been pushing for commercial production of organic fertilisers and pesticides, making the laboratory a necessity. 
 
 Those who want to test organic fertiliser should submit a letter to the agriculture officer in their block, who will lift a sample from the specified location and get it tested in the laboratory.
 
 
