MUMBAI: A   after TOI’s exclusive report on the new real estate law in Maharashtra, CM Devendra Fadnavis on Tuesday finalised the   for the implementation of the Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act.

 Although the contents of the new rules are not yet in public domain, Mantralaya sources said the government has introduced a slew of   provisions, as reported by TOI in its March 14 edition. Most of the pro-builder rules have been dropped by the state after a public uproar following a TOI expose last December.
 
 Maharashtra now joins states like Madhya Pradesh who have notified the rules.
 
 While the rules approved by the CM on Tuesday will be officially notified within a week by the state housing department, the   cannot be implemented since all 92 of its provisions have to be approved by the Centre. 
 
 “So far, the Centre has notified only 69 of the 92 provisions,” officials said.
 
  Since all the provisions have not been notified, the rules become meaningless,” said officials. Government sources said they are confident the new Act will be implemented by May 1.
 
 Often, Acts are not implemented for years since the rules are not prepared and notified. In this case, the Centre had set a deadline for all states to prepare the rules and notify them. “We now will wait for all the provisions to be notified,” said officials.
 
 The RERA Act was gazetted on April 26 last year and was to come into effect from May 1, 2016. However, as section 4 has not been gazetted yet, builders and developers in Maharashtra need not register themselves with the housing regulator, said a real estate consultant. While section 20 provides for the establishment of a housing regulator, section 19, which deals with the rights of a flat purchaser such as obtaining information about the project, is yet to be gazetted. Section 11 pertaining to the duties and functions of the developer is also not gazetted.
 
 In December, when the state government publicized the draft rules, they were criticised by housing activists for being pro-developer. Some of those rules have been changed. It now says a housing society can be formed once 60% buyers book flats. The new Act requires builders to convey property to the society within three months after occupation or when the buyers have paid the full amount. Also the builder has to put details of a project online and regularly update it.
 
 Last year, activists complained when a controversial clause allowed developers to terminate a flat purchase agreement by giving just a week’s notice on email to the buyer who defaults on an instalment. The developer could refund the money without interest to the purchaser at leisure, within six months. Sources said this clause has now been modified. The builder can send a termination notice only if a flat buyer defaults for a third time on payment. The buyer has to be given 15 days’ notice.
 
 The state is also believed to have rectified another controversial clause which said that builders pay registration fee at just Re 1 per square metre. It meant for a 1,00,000 square feet project, one had to pay approximately Rs 10,000.
 
 “The state has now decided to amend this rule, fixing the rate at Rs 10 per square metre for registration. The amounts will vary from a minimum of Rs 50,000 to Rs 10 lakh,” said a state official. Central rules prescribed fees between Rs 5 lakh and Rs 10 lakh for residential and commercial projects.
 
 
