ATTARI: Deputy chief minister   appealed to the people of Amritsar on Friday to vote for the SAD-BJP alliance, saying that the tie-up, if elected in the state for a third time in a row, would ensure there were no “kutcha“ (mud) houses remaining in the state in five years.

 Badal's statement came at election rallies in Attari and Baba Bakala.
 
 Asking people to be careful Asking people to be careful of the Congress candidates, the SAD president said, “You made a mistake once by electing Cap tain   as Lok Sabha MP from Amritsar, but he was never seen in the constituency . You had the opportunity of having the finance minister of the country as your representative, but you missed it.Please don't make the mistake again. Amarinder has betrayed your trust. He never visited you.“
 
 He said the SAD-BJP government had carried out massive development works in Amritsar parliamentary constituency and Majha region. “Please ensure this work continues by voting for the SAD-BJP alliance,“ he added.
 
 Commenting on Amarinder contesting against his father and Punjab CM Parkash Singh Badal from Lambi constituency , he said, “Amarinder is a spent cartridge. He would face a humiliating defeat in Lambi.Everyone wants to see the end of Amarinder, be it Partap Singh Bajwa or Rajinder Kaur Bhattal of his own party Congress. The party is facing a rebellion from within.“
 
 He added that he had already promised to provide all12,000 villages in the state with facilities on a par with urban areas.
 
 `Cong responsible for Op Bluestar, anti-Sikh riots'.
 
 Amritsar: Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal on Friday held the Congress responsible for Operation Bluestar and 1984 anti-Sikh riots. While addressing a gathering in support of BJP's Amritsar Lok Sabha byelection candidate   here on Friday, the Punjab deputy chief minister said that the Congress had been an anti-Sikh force, which played with the sentiments of the people and the day was not far when it would become history on the Indian political landscape.
 
