BHOPAL: Alarmed by a sudden spurt in crimes against women, chief minister   on Thursday gave a clear message to police: be ruthless against organised crime and those who target women. 

 At a closed-door meeting, the CM ordered police to "wipe out the mafia", which is controlling   in the state, say sources. Chouhan wants a cyber police station in every district. 
 
 "Police must act effectively and take stringent action against mafia and those involved in crimes against women," Chouhan said during the high-level meeting, asking officers to ensure that complaints of molestation and harassment must be taken "very seriously" and the criminals arrested without delay. "In order to maintain law and order, police should take tough action and impose strict rules to control criminals," he said. 
 
 He lauded police for reining in subversive activities. The SIMI network in Madhya Pradesh has been "demolished" and police have succeeded in controlling Naxalite activities in the state, as well, he said. 
 
 "I appreciate the role of police in containing anti-national activities," he said, adding: "Madhya Pradesh is known for communal harmony. However, inputs from intelligence agencies point towards some anti-socials instigating innocent people against the government. They are helping  , too. They should be identified and eradicated," he said.
 
 Chouhan discussed important issues with the SPs of various districts through video conferencing. He urged the top brass to keep a tight vigil and take surprise visits of rural areas to keep "communication channels with the people open". "Every district should set a target to wipe out mafia and criminals from their area. For this, the SPs and IGs need to coordinate, organise surprise inspections of all police stations and help poor, underprivileged, women, farmers and destitute," Chouhan said. 
 
 The chief minister also stressed on building information and communication networks, planning for emergencies and effective action on complaints by SCs/STs. 
 
 The role of crime investigation department (CID) becomes more important in view of the changing crime patterns, he pointed out. The chief minister was happy with the handling of law and order in 2016 and praised the functioning of "Dial 100" facility. 
 
 
