PUNE: Buying and selling properties across the state will become a costlier affair with the government on Saturday increasing the   (RR) rates by 5.86% an average increase. 

 With 1% average in RR rate rise than last year’s 7%, the government decided to go with a ‘slight rise” than the “moderate rise” in rates as projected last year.
 
 The RR rates are market values of properties determined by the government for payment of stamp duty. The rural area rates were hiked maximum as compared to other areas in the state. The average increase was 7.13% in rural areas, 6.12% in influential areas and 5.56% in council areas. The government, however, restricted the rise in the corporation areas to 4.74%.
 
 Chief minister   had earlier told TOI that the government would maintain a cautious approach. Sources in the government said the rise in rates was lowest in the last seven years.
 
 There was pressure on the government from elected representatives across all districts not to increase the rates. Mumbai’s RR rate hike were restricted to an average 3.95%, lowest since 2010. Navi Mumbai, which already had the rates high, was restricted to an average rise of 1.97%. Nagpur, on the other hand, saw an average 1.50% rise. 
 
 With the   session on, the RR rates announcement was delayed with the revenue minister announcing it in the session first and then declared by the inspectorate general of registration (IGR) and stamps department in Pune.
 
 “The RR rates are a reflection of the market situation. We have used our parameters on the sale of documents and stated the rates. There has been a dip in registrations over the past few months. After the Centre announced the demonetisation drive in November 2016, we witnessed a nearly 37% decline. We have barely recovered in March ahead of the the RR announcement. We are short by 10-12%,” the IGR stated.
 
 The registration department fell short of achieving this year’s revenue target and it was expected that there would be a rise in the RR rates. The projected target was Rs 23,548 crore, while the department achieved Rs 20,800 crore (88%). The number of documents registered every year is around 23 lakh. This year, 20,5000 property documents were registered.
 
 The RR is the base rate of property decided by the government. It determines the stamp duty and registration charges in course of property transactions. While a stamp duty is charged at 5% of the RR rate or the market value, whichever is more, the registration charge is 1% of the total property value since 2015.
 
 In Mumbai, the highest rates for both land and flats were recorded in Greater Mumbai, Napean sea road and Malabar hill. Nariman Point, Lower Parel and BKC saw the highest rates in office spaces. Overall in the state, the lowest average increase has been for Fadnavis’s home district, Nagpur (1.5%). The IGR stated that after the MIHAN project, the rates were anyway on the high and so they did not increase the rates for Nagpur. Same was the situation in Navi Mumbai. The average hike for all corporations has been in the range from 2-10%, with Ahmednagar’s city area topping the chart with a 9.82% hike. 
 
