VISAKHAPATNAM: The decision of the government to conduct all common entrance tests online has left a number of students in   (AU) from the rural areas in the lurch. 

 Almost 70 per cent of the students from AU, especially at the post graduate level, are all from rural areas of the four north coastal districts of  . A few of them have also come from other districts of the state.
 
 Now, with the examinations for admission into AU and other state universities in AP being conducted online from 2017, students from the rural areas fear that they may not be able to perform as well as those from the urban areas. They further fear that this will create a rural-urban divide in the student community and only help those with access to technology (primarily from urban areas) will progress. 
 
 “We are unhappy with this move of the state government. Lakhs of students from the rural areas do not have access to smartphones and computers. In such a scenario, the decision to force them to write exams online is a draconian one,” observed  , a local student leader from AU. Mahesh further argued that the state government’s promise to train rural students is a far fetched idea and may not produce the results desired. “How is it possible to train so many students through mobile apps?”
 
 However, some students felt that the move is a positive one. K Viswanadham, a final year Msc Physics student from Salur Taluk, Kesali village, said, “This move in the long run is good. Most of the students from both urban or rural belt are not technologically challenged. We all know how to handle smartphones and spend a lot of time in computer kiosks. I guess this will not be much of a challenge to the students.”
 
 Viswanadham, however, noted that there could be a lot of hiccups in arranging both hardware and software infrastructure. “It will all boil down to how well the software is designed and that is the government’s headache not ours.” 
 
 However, P Surya, a tribal student of AU from Makkuva in Vizianagaram district, said, “The problem does not lie with coping with technology, the problem lies in the fact that some of us live in remote areas and smartphones do not necessarily work there. How can we download mock test modules and train ourselves. I believe network problems are huge in rural areas and the government must come up with a concrete plan to identify and train rural students.” 
 
 We are unhappy with this move of the state government. Lakhs of students from the rural areas do not have access to smartphones and computers. In such a scenario, the decision to force them to write exams online is a draconian one
 
