MUMBAI: Given that all tenders brought out by the central government in recent years have followed the process of an e-auction, the Supreme Court has asked the Indian Cricket Board to reply in two weeks why it thinks that a similar method should not be adopted to sell the   (IPL) media rights next month.

 On Friday, the SC gave BCCI a two-week notice to reply. In doing so, the bench, headed by Justice  , also put the onus on ex-CAG  , the head of the court-appointed   (CoA) to submit his view.
 
 Rai, who is widely credited for his report on issue of licenses and allocation of 2G Spectrum by the UPA government, will have to explain to SC why an e-auction is not the best suited process to sell the media rights of the IPL, estimated to generate revenue in excess of Rs18,000 cr.
 
 This comes in the backdrop of a petition filed by BJP leader  , which was first reported by TOI on May 5 this year. "India has seen two of the biggest scams in coal and spectrum allocation over the last decade due to non-transparency in process of allocation. The economic value with cricket rights is no less," Swamy said in his letter to the   before approaching the SC.
 
 The fraternity is divided on the opinion whether there should be an e-tender for sports rights, a practice that has not been followed in selling any of the world's biggest sports properties.
 
 Those backing the process say that "e-auctions ensure greater process control, increased transparency, shorter lead times and generate an extremely competitive price discovery environment resulting in substantial gains for the seller". The e-auction process has also been followed by the government of India for all major auctions, something that Swamy has mentioned in his letter.
 
 However, the BCCI, which evaluated the idea of an e-auction, is convinced that such a process will not allow the IPL to maximize its revenue to the fullest. The Board wants anyone supporting the idea of an e-auction to suggest one positive aspect that could emerge from the process. On the contrary, BCCI believes that e-auction will only result in diminishing of revenue. "BCCI will take a financial hit here," say members. The Board insists there's a difference in selling a sports property and coal.
 
 "Cricket is not coal. We'll certainly explain this point in our reply," it says. BCCI's clear logic is that if anyone can suggest a single beneficial aspect in e-auction outside of "harping" on transparency, it is willing to consider the idea. "If transparency is what everybody is looking for, then there's international agency Deloitte and law firm   looking into it. That aside, there'll be a team looking into the technical aspect of the bid. The bids will be opened in front of the media with all levels of scrutiny in place," say BCCI officials.
 
