MUMBAI: The CBI filed a chargesheet against activist  , her husband   and their publishing company for alleged violation of foreign funding regulations in a city court on Saturday.
 
  Sabrang Communications and Publishing Pvt Ltd (SCPPL) and its two directors, Setalvad and Anand, have been accused of receiving foreign contributions without mandatory registration or prior permission under the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act ( ), 2010.
  
  The CBI said the court had taken cognizance of the offences and directed the accused to remain present on February 3. Setalvad has been at the forefront of a campaign for the 2002   riot victims.
  
  Sushma Raman, a former programme officer of  , the “donor” in this case, has also been named as an accused.
  
  A CBI official said that in a statement that has been made a part of the chargesheet, a key witness from Ford Foundation has told them that an amount of $2,90,000 was a grant. This, the investigating agency said, refuted the couple’s claims that the amount was not a donation, but payment for consultancy services and, therefore, did not come under FCRA rules.
  
  Setalvad could not be contacted despite several attempts.
  
  The CBI registered the case on July 8, 2015, following a complaint from Gujarat. The chargesheet was filed after the Union home ministry sanctioned it.
  
  It said that as columnists, Setalvad and Anand, the directors of Sabrang, were not eligible to accept foreign contributions in accordance with the FCRA. Their publishing company was engaged in publishing books, reports, pamphlets and journals covering various aspects of Indian and the world’s socio-economics and political issues. FCRA debars the use of foreign funds for publishing and media ventures, and diverting of funds from the stated purpose of charitable, scientific literacy or education.
  
  “But they received foreign contribution amounting to $2,90,000 (approx) from a US-based foundation in the name of their company and, thereby, violated sections of FCRA,” said the CBI. It also charged that Sabrang and its representatives were not authorized to receive foreign contribution without prior permission of the home ministry. “The company also did not maintain an exclusive bank account for receipt of foreign contributions,” the CBI added.
  
  Sabrang’s records from 2006-07 to 2014-15 allegedly revealed that it received foreign contribution of not only $2,90,000 from Ford Foundation, but also another Rs 1.3 crore in violation of Section 4(1)(b) of FCRA, 1976, and Section 3(1)(b) of FCRA, 2010. The accused have been charged of criminal conspiracy, said CBI spokesperson R K Gaur.
  
  The BJP on Tuesday said the chargesheet reflected rule of law and that law-breakers should understand that “even political patronage will not rescue them anymore”. Spokesman   said people with vested interests were pursing their agenda at the behest of certain parties and the CBI chargesheet has exposed the nexus.
  
  The   accused the Centre of vendetta. “Teesta is being persecuted for her unwavering conviction in bringing the perpetrators of the 2002 pogrom to justice. She is paying the price for upholding not only the rule of law but the fundamental postulate that a democracy is not about how you treat your majority, but how you treat your minorities,” said AICC spokesman Manish Tewari.
