   chief   on Friday ruled out resignation by his son and deputy CM  . He also refused to disclose the known sources of his income as demanded by the JD(U) earlier in the day. He reiterated that the allegations were a political conspiracy hatched by the top BJP leadership and denied reports that Congress chief Sonia Gandhi had talked to him over phone.
 
  The RJD chief also clarified that he would not harm the Grand Alliance in Bihar and that he had no differences with CM   in the wake of the recent developments. “All assets of Lalu and his family are in public domain. The RJD will not allow anybody to break our alliance,” Lalu said.
  
  Lalu’s statement has put the ball back in the court of Nitish, who apparently is uncomfortable with   in his council of ministers after the FIR lodged by the CBI against his deputy in an alleged land-for-hotels scandal and the following raids on Lalu’s premises in Patna on July 7.
  
  The RJD chief reached Patna in the evening after appearing before the CBI court in Ranchi in fodder scam cases. Lalu said his party legislators had unanimously resolved against Tejashwi tendering resignation. "An FIR is not a sufficient ground to ask anyone to resign," Lalu said and added that he had already clarified everything against the accusations made against him and his family.
  
  “We will reply to the CBI and the Enforcement Directorate whenever they call us," Lalu said in response to JD(U) spokespersons’ demand that he and his family give point-by-point reply to the allegations regarding acquisition of benami properties.
  
  Lalu said Tejashwi has already told his critics that he would explain everything to the people in the run-up to the August 27 rally in Patna in which top leaders of all the non-NDA parties would participate. He said the RJD would not let the BJP break the JD(U)-RJD-Congress alliance in Bihar. “Presidential election is our priority. Our alliance is unbreakable. The RJD will not give the BJP any space to enter Bihar,” he said.
