KOLKATA: The sudden death of a 25-year-old at a city wedding nine months ago took a mysterious turn after the   got hold of the final  . The report mentioned that the victim might have died “after consumption of poison per molecule”.

 The family had been waiting for months for this report. Kasba police delivered it on February 14, only after family members threatened to move court. The family now suspects that Dheeraj Shaw might have died of arsenic poisoning. Cops, however, are waiting for the chemical analysis of the viscera to ascertain the reason behind Shaw’s death. “He did not show the usual signs of  ,” an officer said.
 
 The confusion and the delay prompted the homicide section of the detective department to take over the probe even after Kasba police had initiated a murder case against unknown persons. But what was the family doing almost for a month after receiving the postmortem report? Neighbours of the Shaw family claimed that the family couldn’t comprehend the report first. “They reacted only after they were explained the contents of the report,” a neighbour said.
 
 The incident dates back to July 13 when the private tutor from Panditiya Road had gone to a marriage reception of his acquaintance Pawan Shaw at Kasba’s Kheya banquet hall. “We were told that he was dancing with the members of the groom’s family after consuming liquor. He suddenly felt weak, sat down and collapsed within seconds. My son was rushed to Sishu Mangal Hospital where he was declared dead,” said his mother Asha Sahu. 
 
 The hospital told the family that Shaw died due to a sudden heart attack. “We were told excessive liquor and the sudden excitement while dancing might have triggered the heart attack,” she recalled. But the family had doubts over the hospital’S version. “He was fine when he left for the reception. We had been running from pillar to post for justice.” 
 
 “He was our only earning member. We need to know who gave him the poison,” said Shaw’s sister Vaishali.
 
 The homicide section is, however, treading with caution. “Traces of poison found in the body don’t automatically lead to such a conclusion. There are several instances when poison found in small traces didn’t cause harm to the person,” said a source. 
 
 Police also plan to question Pawan. “We will analyze his call record details and visit his family to ascertain if Shaw had any personal enmity. We have asked for some more documents from Kasba police in this regard,” said a homicide section officer.
 
 
