KURKHEDA (GADCHIROLI): Bhagratha Uikey (65), a wrinkled-faced tribal woman, could hardly understand what was being said but she realized its importance. After all, the event held key to the problems that she and many others like her have been facing ever since demonetisation.

 Uikey, her daughter-in-law Kanchan Arun Uikey (37) and around 12 other women from self-help groups (SHGs) had joined the workshop on   that was actually organized for tribal students by the   (Ignou) at Kurkheda in Gadchiroli district, on Tuesday.
 
 Ignou regional director P Sivaswaroop, assistant manager of Union Bank of India Tushar Nawale, Ignou official Chandrashekhar Rajgure and others guided the participants.
 
 Around 30 IGNOU students from Kurkhdeda, Sursundi and nearby villages too attended the workshop and will now be working as e-Kranti volunteers under the HRD ministry’s financial literacy mission.
 
 “We didn’t understand what was being explained about mobiles and banking but we will gradually try to know the process from fellow villagers,” Kanchan told TOI.
 
 Gauri Uikey, president of Prerna Bahuuddeshiya Sansodhan Sanstha, said around 200 SHGs having 800 members were working with her NGO. “I would need to practice the steps before explaining the benefits to others,” she said. 
 
 Kanchan said that she faced enormous difficulty in depositing Rs58,000 the family possessed in the form of banned currency notes of Rs500 and Rs1,000 denomination. “Our business suffered as we had to stand for hours in long queues to deposit cash. It took three visits to deposit the entire cash,” she recalled.
 
 The SHGs’ women, who attended the workshop, are engaged in the business of selling kerosene while other like them are into mess service, goat farming, forest produce, etc.
 
 Geetai Shivankar, who runs the popular Renuka Mess in the village, was disappointed to have missed the afternoon workshop. “I couldn’t attend as it was our peak business hours. I wanted to learn the digital process as daily and monthly transactions are suffering due to cash shortage. I would learn the process from our NGO president,” she said.
 
 The participating students were surprised when Nawale told them that they could carry out small transactions up to Rs5,000 by dialling a code from there mobile phones.
 
 “Connectivity is a big issue here. I wasn’t aware that we could send or receive money using a simple phone without Internet data. It was interesting to learn about Unstructured Supplementary Service Data (USSD),” Santosh Tembhurne (19), who is pursuing BCom from Ignou, said.
 
 HSC student Vinod Dhonde said had he known these options before, he wouldn’t have paid fines on late payment of utility bills. “I will create awareness about Unified Payment Interface (UPI) payments in my area,” he said.
 
 Earlier, Union Bank representative Nawale explained several modes of cashless transactions such as digital wallet, prepaid cards and their benefits. “If you have a smartphone and Internet connection or a simple phone, you can pay electricity bills, book LPG or recharge DTH subscription. The biggest advantage is that your money gets secured if you use debit or prepaid cards for your daily expenses. Just remember, never use the account in which you have more money. Rather, own two cards and use for daily expenses and keep only a limited amount in that one,” he said.
 
 Asking students to take active part in the mission, Sivaswaroop said, “Learn and teach others how cashless transactions are done. Keep sharing your knowledge. Don’t bank much on hard cash now and adapt to using plastic money. It is safe and easy. ”
 
 
