VISAKHAPATNAM: The demand for drinking water is on the rise in the port city with some apartments collecting special maintenance fee for supplying drinking water to the residents.

 The soaring demand is attributed to the rise in maximum temperature levels in the last few days. According to the   (IMD), the maximum temperature levels in the state has already touched 39 degree Celsius.
 
 Visakhapatnam Airport registered a maximum of 34 degree Celsius on Tuesday against its normal of 32 degree Celsius. 
 
 IMD director K Nagaratnam said, “The summer season is starting and the temperatures are rising. The maximum temperatures may touch 38 degrees Celsius in Hyderabad in the next two days. Similarly, hot weather conditions will develop in coastal Andhra Pradesh too in the next few days.” 
 
 A resident of Prince Apartments at Sivajipalem said, “We have given Rs 1,500 in addition to the maintenance charge for this month for special drinking water supply as there is already a shortage in our apartment. Generally summer begins in March, but for us it has already started,” he said.
 
 K Lokeswara Rao, proprietor of Sriramulu Departmental Stores near   on  , said, “Till January, we sold a maximum of 10 water canisters (20 litres each) daily, but now we are selling nearly 14 to 15 cans.” Lokeswara Rao added that the lowest price of a 20 litre mineral water can costs between Rs 35 and Rs 40 whereas branded water bottles like Bisleri are sold at Rs 70 at his shop.
 
 N Meher Prasad, superintending engineer of water supply for Visakhapatnam district, said the ground water level of the district was now at 4 metres when compared to 5 metres last year. He said the water level is good in the district, but it needs to improve. 
 
 He said nearly 15,000 borewells were inspected in the district for repair from February 1 and the work is still continuing. 
 
 Collector Pravin Kumar sanctioned Rs 4 crore to the district water supply department under special development fund (SDF) for improving the drinking water supply conditions in the city in view of the approaching summer months, he said.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) commissioner M Hari Narayanan said the GVMC is preparing for the summer. “All requisite sanctions have been given and tenders are also being called. By April 1, we will be ready to tackle all emergency. We will spend approximately Rs 1 crore for tankers and borewells. However, for other maintenance works, we are already doing our regular water supply maintenance,” Hari Narayanan added. 
 
 Visakhapatnam Airport registered a maximum of 34 degree Celsius on Tuesday against its normal of 32 degree Celsius 
 
