If 16-year-old Sandhya had not   to go against her   and help tip off cops last year, she would have been forced into an  . It was during her all-important class 10 exams that her parents decided that Sandhya, then 15, should get   to a 25-yearold boy. “My father was under the influence of relatives, who convinced him to get me married off. He was forcing me to give up my exams, though I told him I was not interested in marriage. I had to defy them and take help of a person in my locality to alert the authorities,“ said Sandhya, now a student of Sri NRI Junior College in BN Reddy Nagar.

 Sandhya's story is by no means an isolated case. Her own friend, named Sandhya Rani, was rescued from marriage three days after Sandhya's engagement was stalled. Today, both Sandhyas are excelling in their studies, with   the topper at her college.
 
 Even after decades of awareness and sensitisation programmes, child marriage is a rampant practice in the suburbs of Cyberabad and Rachakonda, which are known as hitech residential pockets catering to the city's IT crowd. The reasons cited are plenty, with the main being societal pressure and the girl's parents' wish to get over with the financial burden of a wedding.
 
 Since January this year, at least 16 cases have come to light. In some cases, the intervening agencies were a tad too late and the marriages took place. In most cases, the police act on the basis of tip-offs from child rights NGOs or local women's organisation (as in the case of Sandhya).
 
 For instance, child rights NGO Balala Hakkula Sangam aided the Hayathnagar police in foiling the wedding of a 14-year-old girl with a 16-year-old boy at a temple in Banjara Hills. The family claimed that the ceremony was only akin to an oral agreement between them and that they were planning to allow the couple to stay together only when the boy completes his studies and reaches the age of 24.
 
 The police nabbed the parents while they were organising the postwedding ceremony at Vedapatasala falling under the Hayathnagar police limits. Both sets of parents were arrested and the couple taken to a rescue home. The groom would have been arrested too if he was a major.
 
 In cases where the wedding is prevented from happening, the family is counselled and a written undertaking is collected stating that a wedding would not be performed until the gril turns 18. Usually, local schoolteachers, anganwadi employees or NGO workers are tasked with keeping an eye out for surreptitious weddings.
 
 Police, in the meantime, are attempting to curb the menace with sensitisation programmes. A programme was held recently in Choutuppal with the help of MV Foundation and a few other NGOs to raise awareness against child marriages, said Rachakonda police commissioner Mahesh Bhagwath. A team, comprising police and revenue authorities was formed to gather inputs about such weddings.
 
 “I used the same strategy in 2006 when I was superintendent of police in Nalgonda. The Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006 is stringent and carries a punishment of 2 years imprisonment and Rs 1 lakh fine,“ Bhagwath told TOI.
 
 
 
 
 It is a sign of the failure of the system that child marriages are still prevalent in the city. While the police act against the culprits whenever a minor's wedding is brought to their notice, there is no foolproof system to track all such cases.Also, there is no mechanism to see that rescued girls are not harassed and are allowed to study further. Only a robust system of checks will work where awareness programmes have fallen short.
 
