They’ve been part of almost every Bond film, at the backdrop of top coastal cities in the world and have the snazziest races to their name in the West. And if you haven’t got onto a   yet, it’s probably time to do so now. The city recently had its first high-end   racing event, which grabbed everyone’s attention. “These boats are about speed, having your own team and spell out fun action on the high seas. I think it’s going to be a huge sport soon,” says sailing enthusiast  . On a clear morning, you’ll see these sleek, stylish vessels dotting the harbour at the Gateway of India — a clear indication that Mumbaikars are also taking to these speedboats for a spin on the water. 

 
  
  
 For many, the idea of zooming through the wild open sea can compare with little else. Water transport enthusiast   says, “Sports boats or powerboats are still niche, but they’re a growing hobby. Just like what F1 cars are to the track, this is to the water.” 
  Speedboats are also time-saving, says Zia Hajeebhoy, sailing expert from Mumbai. “I know of many people who use their boats to get across to Alibaug quickly. While the smaller boats (20-40 foot) are used for transport, the larger, fancier ones (30-60 foot) are used as party boats. Abroad, these boats are largely used for deep sea fishing and diving as the environment is conducive to those activities, but here it’s more for a zip around the harbour, which is great fun.” 
 
 
 
 The lure of being in open water prompts many to take to speedboating. Shahid admits, “I’ve been doing this for 30 years and nothing comes close to the sheer fun that it offers. Speed is the real thrill here — did you know that speed appears thrice as fast on the water than it would feel on land? In a city like Mumbai where you are so limited by space, it gives you a sense of freedom to be out there.” He recalls that the speedboat boom started years ago when people realised that the ferries to Alibaug were slow. They then started chartering speedboats to go to Alibaug. Now, more people are taking to these for leisure, too,” he says. 
 
 
  
  
 For 45-year-old Zarina Elias, businesswoman from  , this is her must-do activity every Saturday morning. She says, “The nicest part of being on a speedboat is the wind hitting the face; it makes you forget your stress. It also lets you just get out and disappear on the water. I go out on one with friends every Saturday.” She doesn’t own a speedboat yet, but has plans to buy one. “It’s definitely an investment as it’s my escape. It’s like how one would buy a house as a retreat. It’s going to cost a lot, but it’s worth the indulgence,” she says. 
 
 
  
  
 Get ready to be surprised at the unknown spots and green getaways you can speed away to on a speedboat. Says 38-year-old marine surveyor  , “We head to Alibaug virtually every weekend. But you can also cruise to Sunk Rock — one of the three lighthouses in the Mumbai harbour (about two miles away from Gateway), Prong’s Reef — another lighthouse at the southernmost point of Mumbai (three miles away) and   (about 12 miles out), which also has a fort. But you need permission to see this place as it’s out of port limits. There are also several beaches down the coast that you can visit with permissions.” 
 
 
  
  
 
 Zia, who also teaches people to drive speedboats, says, “Learning to drive one is easy, it’s just like a car. Generally, three learning sessions of three hours each should suffice.” Shahid cautions, “Remember, it can also be tricky as the water beyond a certain speed is like concrete. So, always be conscious of the weather and of your own and your boat’s limitations.” Adds Zarina, “You need to understand the combination of wind and tide as it’s crucial to manoeuvre the boat.”
 
 
 Shahid says, “Yes, there is no age restriction as such to learn to drive a speedboat. Even for a beginner, it’s quite simple and within three days, you will be quite proficient to drive one on your own.” 
 If you are just driving a boat, it’s advisable to undertake a few training courses, such as RYA that covers the nautical rules and techniques. Says Gautam Dutta, expert at a yachting and boating company, “These courses are conducted by the   and other nautical colleges. This is not mandatory for private boats, where you are operating them just for leisure, but it is better to know the rules anyway.” Adds Shahid, “The   offers courses, too. The   (UK) also offers certificate courses, which are conducted by affiliated colleges in Mumbai.
 
 
 
 Generally, you need three sessions of three hours each.
 Those who are 18 years can drive a speedboat on their own and those below that age should drive one under supervision. 
 
 
 You don’t need a licence for driving your speedboat for leisure, but if you are using it commercially, you need to do so. Adds Gautam, “In India, you can register your vessels under two acts — Merchant Shipping Act (covering the sea) and Indian Vessel Act (covers rivers). If you register under the first, you can cover both.” 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 A unit of length=six feet
 
 Wind speed, which equals 1 nautical mile per hour
 
 Back of the ship
 
 Forward part of the ship
 
 Right-hand side of the boat when you’re facing the bow
 
 Left hand side of the boat, facing the bow
 
 Tangled
 
 Means good luck
 
 
 
