Asia's biggest examina tion board, the  , has become a subject of ridicule across the country. There are more teachers abetting cheating than students in these exams. 

 Till now, 1,649 students have been caught using unfair means but only 70 were booked under the anti-copying ordinance. In contrast, FIRs against 111 centre superintendents and 178 invigilators have been lodged for facilitating cheating.
 
 Though the figures show more number of teachers than students booked, officials say the actual numbers are much more. In a populous state like Uttar Pradesh where 55 lakh students are appearing for class X and XII exams, 30 lakh in high school and 24.5 lakh in intermediate, action was taken against 70 students; the remaining were let off with a warning. The same applies to the teachers. A total of 289 teachers were found facilitating cheating, either by dictating answers to students or helping students smuggle answer copies out of examination centres or getting answers written by an expert and smuggling the copy back to the examination room. Many have been caught for turning a blind eye to students exchanging answer copies and copying from books and guides in examination halls.
 
 So far, the board has cancelled examinations at 69 centres while 91 have been debarred. In 327 centres, centre superintendents have been replaced with new ones, and FIR has been lodged against the management of four examination centres for aiding mass copying, said UP Board nodal officer  .
 
 These figures, say experts, show a lackadaisical approach of officials at the helm. The larger concern is that the menace of copying fails to end despite the board's several mechanisms in cluding identification of districts as 'sensitive' and `highly sensitive', special admit cards to check impersonation, coded answer copies and deployment of static magistrates to nab copycats. The sensitive and highly sensitive districts are under strict surveillance of board authorities. This year, 31 districts--Agra, Aligarh, Mathu ra, Hathras, Etah, Mainpuri, Firozabad, Kasganj, Shahjahanpur, Badaun, Moradabad, Sambhal, Allahabad, Kaushambi, Hardoi, Kanpur Nagar, Kanpur Dehat, Fatehpur, Chitrakoot, Ghazipur, Azamgarh, Ballia, Deoria, Jaunpur, Gonda, Ambedkarnagar, Sultanpur, Bhadohi, Sant Kabirnagar, Siddharthnagar and   have been declared `sensitive'.In 2015, there were only 11 districts marked as sensitive while the figure in 2014 and 2013 was 10.
 
 A board official on condition of anonymity said, “Most cheating cases are reported from districts marked as sensitive. It shows education mafia are getting powerful with each passing year.“
 
 Eastern UP has gained the notorious tag with 14 of 23 districts being declared sensitive. The trouble in terms of mass cheating, though, exists in western UP but it has shown an improvement.
 
 First refusing to talk and later admitting the incompetence of the board officials to handle education mafia, UP Board secretary Shail Yadav said, “There is always last-minute pressure from education mafia to make schools with dubious track record as examination centres. The authorities are not competent enough to take action against centre superintendents and invigilators.“
 
 UP Secondary Teachers' Association state secretary RP Mishra said the cheating menace will be curbed once the government gets rid of corrupt officers who are hand in glove with education mafia.
 
 “We call it as NDA and DPA-non-disturbance allowance and desired posting allowance. In NDA, an officer gets a posting at a location desired by the government but by paying a hefty amount of Rs 3040 lakh, he remains undisturbed. In DPA, an officer gets a posting of his choice by paying Rs 50-60 lakh, all to aid cheating,“ said Mishra.
 
