GAYA: Magadh University (MU) has got an ‘insider’ as its vice-chancellor (VC) after a gap of 37 years. The last insider VC was Hargovind Singh and like  , the new VC, Singh too was a teacher of economics.
 
  According to university watchers, the advantage of an insider VC is that he can hit the ground on day one itself as he knows the university inside out. The disadvantage is that former colleagues are reluctant to accept ‘friend’ as their boss.
  
  Conceding that insiders suffer from certain handicaps, Shiv Jatan Thakur, an expert on university affairs, said Ahsan may not have much of a problem as he has got a vast experience of administering three different universities in Bihar and   (B N Mandal University, Madhepura, M M Arabic and Persian University, Patna and Sidhu Kanu University, Dumka).
  
  “The new VC has only to guard himself against the manoeuvres of the well-entrenched degree mafia and his success will mainly depend on his capacity to keep the mafia at arm’s length,” Thakur said.
  
  The new VC’s first challenge, according to university watchers, would be to rein in the degree mafia. Though three former VCs and several other university officials, including controller of examinations, have been to jail and A K Dutta, a former exam controller mysteriously disappeared about two decades back, the degree mafia continues to harvest big and more than 300 degrees were awarded to foreigners in an apparently clandestine manner between 2011 and 2015.
  
  Despite repeated directions of the UGC, little has been done to prevent recycling of the same thesis again and again for the award of Ph.D degrees. Uploading of the Ph.D details on the UGC website is yet to begin in MU. Allegations of financial mismanagement too are not uncommon in the university.
  
  The new VC will also have to deal with the controversial issue of superannuation age of principals. The Patna high court, in its recent order, gave the VC the freedom to take action even during the pendency of the writ on the age issue.   has left the issue to be decided by the regular VC.
  
  The university is running at less than 50% of the sanctioned faculty strength and forthcoming retirement of teachers would further deplete the teaching strength in the colleges and post graduate departments.
  
  Welcoming the appointment of Ahsan, Amarnath Pathak, general secretary of the Non-teaching Employees’ Association, said they will extend their full cooperation to the new VC.
