So, what got Kolkata buzzing on NYE, apart from PM’s speech on demonetisation? Sunny Leone’s Kolkata visit! While there was nervous anticipation for over a week, Bollywood’s baby doll came, saw and conquered. In town 
 

 
 
 
 It’s amazing. My fans have always been supportive and they have loved whatever I have done till date. I feel really blessed that they shower so much love on me all the time (laughs).
 
 
 
 
 Well, if anyone knows anything about me, the first thing they would find is, I am happily married for quite a long time now. I believe that there is always that one person in your life who matters to you the most. When people participate on love-related reality shows, they learn a lot of things like how to treat women, and even men.
 
 
 
 Well, there’s obviously a limit to how you talk to them or to what extent you can be friendly with them on a TV show. At the same time, we want them to have fun because it is a lifetime experience. When they are given certain challenges or tasks, you need to be accommodating with them as that makes them comfortable and explore more as individuals. It’s a whole lot of fun but I prefer not to get into emotional stuff.
 
 
 
 When it comes to Bollywood, my comfort level varies. I have always felt like a young girl, who is making new friends in college or school. I feel very shy and do get uncomfortable at times. But, last year, I made a lot of new friends and met dozens of new people. I made sure I was social. Generally, I try to make new connections. I say hi to everyone as I enter a new place. I own up, smile and introduce myself. That is quite a task (laughs) !
 
 
 
 
 Bollywood has given me a lot of love and last year was about lots of nice people walking into my life. It was an interesting journey.
 
 
 
 Working with SRK is a dream come true. I think that’s with everyone. Every actor cherishes the dream of working with him and for me it came pretty early. It feels great that 
 , the song, is getting so much love already. It was a big challenge. It’s a classic number already and popularising a new version is tough. I had kept my fingers crossed and hoped that the new mixing was done in a good manner. Along with putting in hard work I was hoping and praying that everyone loved the song. I am so, so, so happy... (laughs).
 
 
 
 
 Working with SRK was an amazing experience. I had met him quite a few times before and he was always very cordial and warm. While on the sets, I could only find a hardworking and very understanding co-actor. When you work with a superstar, you always have huge expectations out of that person and SRK is someone who meets all your expectations. There’s a reason why he is ‘Shah Rukh Khan’. Unless you work with him, you won’t know what he is.
 
 
 
 
 How I wish that! We worked for just a few days and by the time I got comfortable, it was all over. But yeah, we had really deep conversations on life and its philosophy. My husband and I would sit for hours with him and learn about his journey in Bollywood.
 
 
 
 
 I watched a lot of SRK movies but the one that stayed with me — may be because of my age that time — is 
 . My mother and I would watch the movie again and again. I so believe in his theory of now or never. You have to make the most of your life every single day.
 
 
 
 
 I don’t know, I always find this question the toughest. I think I want to do better work for the charities I am part of. I really want to be hands-on and devote more time. Also, I want to take my dogs out on walk, clean up their poops and pees. (Winks) Yeah, that’s all I guess. I want to devote more and more time to animal charities, do great work, not necessarily picking up poops only.
 
 
 
 
 There were so many good movies. And the movies were amazing because of the cast. They couldn’t do any better and there’s no reason why I should want to be a part of them. I want to be part of original versions.
 
 
 
 
 You are not, because you haven’t downloaded it on your phone. My app is for my fans. It enables them to get updates of my Instagram, Facebook and Twitter accounts and even watch all my songs and videos. My fans know about my app and that is what matters.
 
 
 
 
 Oh, I love the people here. I have come here on work and this is for the first time that I performed on New Year’s Eve. I wish everyone a safe and happy year ahead.
 
 
  Ruchhita Kazaria, Mazhar Badgujar and Sakshi Jain from Green Entertainment Production
 
  Hyatt Regency, Kolkata
