BHOPAL: City police arrested a BJP leader and eight others for running a high profile online   from posh Arera Colony area late on Thursday. Four girls hailing from Meghalaya and Maharashtra, who were forced into flesh trade, were rescued. The BJP leader, identified as  , was state media in-charge of state BJP's newly formed Scheduled Caste Cell.

 After the news about Shakya’s arrest in the case spread, BJP state president Nand Kumar Singh Chauhan sacked him from the primary membership of the party on Friday.
 
 State’s cyber cops said they were keeping a tab on the accused, who were operating an online portal http://bhopalcallgirl.in to rope in clients. The website was registered from New Delhi and the racket was operational for past three months, now.
 
 Accused used to identify girls in need of urgent jobs through job portals. They then contacted them and called them to Bhopal. Once in Bhopal, the women were assured with front office jobs in private firms. Later, these girls were forced into flesh trade.
 
 The girls were mainly school dropouts seeking jobs of receptionist or in beauty parlours. They would charge between Rs 1500 to Rs 3000 from the customers, the police added.
 
 Besides Shakya, 33, other accused have been identified as Dinesh alias David, 23, Suresh Gehlot, 33, Ravi Prajapati, 26, Harjeet Dhanwani, 26, Manoj Kumar, 39, Krishna Kumar, 21, Suresh Belani, 30, and Miswauddin, 22. Subhash alias Veer Dwivedi- the gang’s kingpin, is on the run.
 
 Police said it was a professional sex racket with predefined roles and responsibilities for every member. Role of Dinesh and Ravi were to update numbers on the website and to trap girls on pretext of jobs.
 
 Krishna Kumar’s job was to follow Veer’s orders as per the demand of their day to day business. Neeraj Shakya’s job was to coordinate with Ravi and Harjeet.
 
 Shakya works as a building material supplier while Dinesh alias David and Ravi Prajapati are college students and Suresh Gehlot is a farmer. Harjeet Dhanwani is also a sand supplier like Shakya. The other accused, Miswauddin, Harjit Dhanwani and Suresh Belani are into mining operations and garments business.
 
 The kingpin, Subhash alias  , has worked as manager in some hotels in the past. All of them worked on the directions of Subhash.
 
 Police said it was a professional sex racket with predefined roles and responsibilities for every member. Role of Dinesh and Ravi were to update numbers on the website and to trap girls on pretext of jobs.
 
 Krishna Kumar’s job was to follow Veer’s orders as per the demand of their day to day business. Neeraj Shakya’s job was to coordinate with Ravi and Harjeet.
 
 Police said some members of the gang would be taken on remand to get lead in the case and link their nexus of call girls and customers in city and outside.
 
 It is the second high-profile sex racket busted in city in posh Arera Colony area in less than two months. Earlier, on March 27 was run by son of a doctor from E-5 Arera Colony.
 
 So far, pubs and bars were used to run prostitution rackets in city. Massage parlours and meeting points in upscale area were also used as a front to run flesh trade, but this is for the first time that an organised flesh trade racket was busted in city that was operated as Bhopal Escort, mentioned on home page of the website.
 
