The traditional   got a boost with the finance minister T M   announcing ' ' for developing five crops. For rice Kuttanad, Kole, Onattukara, Pokkali, Palakkad, Kaippad and Wayanad have been chosen. For vegetables the identified zones are Devikulam, Kanjikuzhi, Pazhayannur, Chittur and Kollankode. While bananas will be the focus in Thrissur, flowers and coconut cultivation will receive attention respectively in Wayanad and Kozhikode. An amount of Rs 10 crore has been earmarked for initiating integrated activities in these special agro-zones.

 The finance minister said a detailed project report for making value added products in 14 agro parks approved by KIIFB last year is under preparation. An amount of Rs 100 crore to 150 crore will be made available for this from KIIFB. More producer companies will be started for manufacturing value added products from coconut.
 
 
 
 
 The total outlay in agriculture sector, which was Rs 1,822 crore in 2016-2017, has been raised to Rs 2,106 crore. Out of the Rs 160 crore earmarked for food production, Rs 70 crore is meant for paddy and Rs 85 crore for vegetables. For the reclamation of wasteland for rice cultivation, a comprehensive assistance programme has been formulated. An amount of Rs 12 crore has been provided for promoting cultivation in fallow land and for conversion of 'Oruppoo' into 'Iruppoo'. A sum of Rs 27 crore has been earmarked for providing Rs 1,500 per hectare to 'padasekhara samithies'. An allocation of Rs 3 crore has been made for setting up of mini-rice mills in selected co-operative societies. The non-plan outlay for paddy procurement is Rs 700 crore. The budget document says suitable projects will be prepared for the special agricultural regions of Kuttanad, Onattukara, Pokkali, Kol, Palakkad, Wayanad and Kaippad. An amount of Rs 12 crore would be provided for giving block-level assistance in these areas.
 
 For the promotion of agriculture and agricultural crops having regional specialties, an amount of Rs.3.3 crore has been provided. To promote crops like Ragi and Millet in tribal areas, the government would initi ate measures for their procurement and distribution through ration shops. “What farmers expected from the budget was a confidence-building announcement and measures like crop insurance or revolving fund to compensate farmers for crop failure. But this was missing,“ said Fr Thomas Peelianickal, executive director, Kuttanadu Vikasana Samithy, Alappuzha.
 
 Vegetable farming will be expanded using the prevailing cluster system under the agriculture department. An allocation of Rs 18 crore has been made for providing assistance to the clusters. In addition to this, Rs.3 crore is provided for block-level federations. Crop health management has a corpus of Rs 54 crore and will be of benefit to vegetable farmers from this year. Isaac has also set apart Rs 10 crore for promoting organic farming. A new component in the vegetable farming is the emphasis given to processing and marketing. An amount of Rs 5 crore has been set apart for the vegetable producer companies.
 
 Even though there has been a temporary upswing in the price of rubber, the price stabilization scheme to ensure a price of Rs 150 per kg to the small scale farmers will continue, the minister said. He set aside Rs 500 crore for the purpose. But rubber farmers say that such small measures won't help their cause unless the government ensures a market for their produce.
 
 “Instead of these temporary measures, the government should come out with a rule that all roads would be rubberised. This one decision can ensure that our produce has a market. Across the country, especially in states like Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra or Karnataka which have big roads, the concept of rubberised roads would benefit us farmers as well as the road users. Vehicles or the tyres don't get damaged easily on rubberised roads,“ said Joy Thengumkudi, national treasurer, INFARM.
 
