BHUBANESWAR: Ten days of fun, emotion, drama are all set to explode on the foothills of Khandagiri when the jatra party kicks off as part of Magha Mela. Around a dozen jatra troupes from across the state will stage night-long shows beginning Friday. 

 "Jatra is pure entertainment without any editing. The live performances and powerful storylines are simply amazing. Besides, the dances and live orchestra are major attractions. I have plans to watch all shows," said  , a jatra lover.
 
 As many as 3,000 to 5,000 people are expected to watch each show. Six tents are being set up for the purpose. Jatra lovers from different parts of the state including Berhampur, Puri, Jagatsinghpur, Jajpur, Bhadrak are expected to watch the shows. 
 
 "There is an undeclared competition among the jatra parties, who vie with each other to attract the maximum crowd. This year the major attraction for   and Eastern Red troupes is Bollywood actor  . "We are starting advance booking from Friday while the shows will start from Sunday," said  , senior manager of Eastern Blue. 
 
 Over the years the look and style of jatras have undergone a sea change. The troupes are taking advantage of technology as hanging microphones are giving way to cordless speakers, lasers and improved lighting systems are adding new dimensions while advanced props and stage designs are providing viewing pleasure. 
 
 The 12 major troupes taking part in the event are Shibani, Konark, Bagha Jatin, Biswa Darabar, Tulasi, Gouri, Kalinga, Sachidananda, Parbati, Ranga Mahal, Eastern Blue and Eastern Red. "These days the troupes are managed professionally. Moreover, the Jatra industry has been providing jobs to a large number of people and the remuneration is also good," said Tiki, a popular jatra actor. 
 
  Police and   have made elaborate security arrangements and are putting emphasis on sanitation and cleanliness in the fair ground. "This year we have asked all jatra parties to install toilets for their audience while dustbins are a must for vendors selling food items," mayor A N Jena said. 
 
