BENGALURU: Abhirup Chatterjee, 23, a design engineer employed with Bell Helicopter for the past 18 months, cleared CAT 2016 with a 99.82 percentile in his second attempt. He said that he might have fared better had he made better use of the first 15 minutes of his verbal ability and reading comprehension sections.

 “I think my test centre was organizing the test for the first time. So there were delays. It wasn't the the most conducive atmosphere for writing a competitive exam,“ he said, adding that he was expecting interview calls from the top IIMs. However, he opined that clearing the subsequent rounds was a matter of luck.
 
 A former mechanical engineering student at People's Education Society Institute of Technology (PESIT), Abhirup said that all one needed to tame the much dreaded CAT was hard work. “It's tenth grade mathematics, which includes some puzzles.I also used a few reference books,“ said Abhirup, who attended private coaching classes for training. Pointing to the trend of engineers leaving the technical domain, Abhirup said, “Many of my friends and peers are interested in managerial roles. The work is more diverse, and remuneration is also much better.“
 
 Rahul Sharma, 30, who scored 100 percentile in CAT 2016 is not your typical MBA aspirant. Having successfully cleared the exam earlier, and graduating from   in 2011, Rahul now spends his time counselling and coaching students at Career Launcher, as the academic head of Gurgaon and Faridabad. Rahul gave up on a lucrative career at Yes Bank, and took to teaching.
 
 “When I sat for the exam, we used a pen and paper. Now, everything is online. I took the exam to keep myself abreast of the changes. Also, when my students come to me with specific problems, I will be able to provide the exact solution,“ said Rahul, adding that he had no intention of changing his career path.
 
 Mock tests turn perfect precursors to CAT
 
 Shiv Raj, a two-time MBA aspirant, cleared the competitive exam the second time around by focusing more on the mock tests. By enrolling in TIME's test series and sourcing questions from online question banks, the 25-year-old was able to improve on his previous score: 97 percentile. This time around, Shiv secured 99.94 percentile.
 
 “I took 30 mock tests by the time the exam dates were announced,“ said the former student of IIIT-Hyderabad.
 
 He said he was keen on pursuing either social financing or international strategy, should he get a chance to study at one of the prestigious IIMs.
 
 “I want to use my education and learning to work for my passion. I want to climb the professional ladder and be in a position of responsibility, where I can oversee utilization of funds for CSR activities,“ said the employee of UnitedHealth Group.
 
 Nikhil Prabhu, a 20-yearold student of commerce at Presidency College secured 99.74 percentile in CAT 2016 in his first attempt.The ambitious youngster said that he was aiming at getting into IIM Ahmedabad or Bangalore.
 
 “I want to focus on financial management. Since I come from a commerce background, mathematics was my weak area, so I had to work much harder at that by taking multiple mock tests,“ he said.
 
 Prabhu had to balance his CAT preparations along with his college academics, besides extra-curricular activities. Starting off with two hours a day, Prabhu started working harder as the exam date drew near. In fact, he attempted CAT just a week after writing his fifth semester examinations.
 
 PREPARED TO GO TO ANY CORNER TO JOIN IIM
 
 After scoring a whop ping 99.7 percentile in CAT, Mohit Sudha karan is now waiting for a call from one of the IIMs. When asked about preference, the 22-year-old smiled and said: “Any IIM will do. But I will be happy if I get picked byone of the top six colleges.“
 
 With his father working with the Indian Navy, Mohit's life involved a lot of travel.After finishing high school at CMR National Public School in Bengaluru, he completed undergraduation at Birla Institute of Tech nology in Goa. Mohit is prepared to travel to any corner of India to join an IIM.
 
 “In the long run, I would like to start my own company. But now, it's too early to say how and what kind of company I will run. It will all depend on my scores,“ said Mohit, who prepared for CAT while working for  .
 
 “As I was working, it was difficult to make time during weekdays for CAT preparations. However, during the weekends, I was able to allot four to five hours for my preparations. Aimcat exams helped me a lot. Their questions were tougher than what I faced in CAT,“ said Mohit.
 
 THIS TOPPER GAVE UP HER JOB TO FOCUS ON EXAM
 
  was working at a startup in Bengaluru before she quit her job to focus on CAT 2016 last August. Four months of intense preparation helped her score 99.45 percentile. But Priyanka admitted that the path was not easy.
 
 “I studied at least 12 hours a day and took almost 45 mock exams from different coaching centres like IMS, Career Launcher, TIME, etc.,“ she said. She added that her hectic working hours did not enable her to prepare adequately for the exam.
 
 The former Bombay University student said that her dream was to be a marketing executive in any of the top fast-moving consumer goods (FMCG) companies.
 
 WORK DID NOT STOP HER FROM ACING TEST
 
 Ria Agarwal, 23, has bagged 99.37 percentile. She said that she preferred either IIM Kolkata or IIM Bangalore.
 
 Ria had to multitask as well. Between working with Myntra and preparing for CAT 2016, she hardly had any time left. “I would go to my coaching classes on weekends and spend two to three more hours for self-study,“ she said.
 
 Ria wants to get into public policymaking after getting her degree. “I have only heard people complain about existing policies but nobody makes a contribution to policy-making. I would like to be a part of it and make policies that would leave no room for complaints,“ Ria said.
 
 She completed her high school at National Public School, Koramangala, and later joined the Birla Institute of Technology, Goa, for undergraduation.
 
