Q: Serious criminal charges have been leveled against UP cabinet minister  . What does that say about politics in state?

 A: I give top priority to ‘loklajja’ (propriety, regard to public opinion) in social as well as political life. I have always maintained this stance and appeal to all to stay away from crime and corruption and serve society, state and nation. I will quit politics if ever such charges were leveled against me and expect the same from others in political life. Ram rajya is ideal good governance and his moral values and standards are the cornerstone of my life.
 
 Q: Why has BJP not fielded any Muslim candidate and continues to be seen as anti-minorities? 
 
 I enjoy the faith and confidence of all castes and communities in Lucknow as all over the country. It’s a baseless misconception against the BJP and its leaders as the present government has taken a series of minority welfare programmes.
 
 Q Demonitisation not only caused public inconvenience, it retarded the GDP and growth in every sector from agriculture to industrial, while your government claims otherwise.
 
 A: Demonitisation of the prime minister was in national interest and questions should not be raised on his intentions to fight against corrupt and the black money. Even if there were some hardships initially, the government has tackled them successfully.
 
 A: If the party asks you to take charge as   of UP after the elections, will you accept it?
 
 A: I have no intention to return to state politics. But let the party decide.
 
 Q: Will you admit the outcome of the Assembly elections in the five states as a referendum on demonitisation and the policies and performance of the prime minister?
 
 A: No, I would say that in the assembly elections, local and regional issues play a major role, though popularity of the prime minister and his unblemished image is an asset. The outcome should certainly not be linked to any one policy like demonitisation or the popularity of the prime minister.
 
 Q: If BJP loses in UP, will you accept it as decline in the popularity of Narendra Modi?
 
 A: How can anyone say that when we are winning with two-thirds majority? There is no question of BJP’s defeat in the elections.
 
 Q: How do you assess the situation on the Indo-Pakistan border and in N-E states? What are you views on left wing extremism?
 
 A: We have given Pakistan a fitting reply with the surgical strike. For negotiations between the two countries, Pakistan will have to take credible action and curb unlawful activities and terrorist outfits. In North-Eastern states, it is by and large peaceful and the Centre is monitoring the situation. Home ministry records are clear on left wing extremism and causalty of police jawans have halved in the last two-and-half years. On of other hand, double the number of Naxals were slain in crackdown on anti-national elements.
 
 Q: There is a general impression that BJP is turning pro-OBC and dumping Brahmins and their leadership. Even BJP stalwart Atal Bihari Vajpayee finds hardly any place in election material of the BJP, while Brahmin leadership has marginalised. What is the reason?
 
 A: If you have been with me, you would notice I have been mentioning Atal ji fondly and emotionally in my speeches. Not only the BJP, the entire nation is grateful to have such a statesman and his contribution in the building of the nation. The BJP leadership holds Atal ji in high regard till today.
 
 Q: The issue of ticket to your son Pankaj Singh to contest elections is the buzz in party circles. Comment.
 
 A: In 2012, when I was BJP president, I had dropped the name of Pankaj from the list which was finalised by the selection committee comprising top leadership of the BJP. At that time, even Kalyan Singh, who played a key role in the distribution of tickets to BJP leaders in UP had recommended strongly for Pankaj Singh. But when the list was brought to me I deleted Pankaj’s name because I was not in favour being party president to allot the symbol to my son. I am strict in such matters. Even now, the party finalised the name without telling me. I need not mention how active Pankaj has been in the party as grassroot worker for over a decade .
 
 Q: How do you seen the alliance between the SP and Congress?
 
 A: Is it a gathbandhan (alliance) or a thugbandhan (pact between conmen) for plundering the state?
 
 Q How do you rate chief minister Akhilesh Yadav’s performance?
 
 A: I don’t comment on individuals but I agree he has toured the state extensively these days and discovered that his government has collapsed and no development work has been done in the last five years.
 
 
