VARANASI: Although the dharna and demonstration by the girl students of   on campus gate and protest of Shiksha Mitras as well as activists of Purvanchal Manch during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s public meeting at Shahnashapur caught the attention of one and all, but the wailing of a teenage poor girl at PM Modi’s programme at Bada Lalpur stadium went unnoticed completely.

 During his two-day visit to his parliamentary constituency, the PM addressed his first public meeting at Bada Lalpur stadium on Friday and another meeting at Shahanshapur village on Saturday. 
 
 The poor girl,  , resident of   village, had gone to Bada Lalpur with a hope to convey to PM her only desire to convince her parents to allow her to study further. The PM’s slogan -‘Beti Bachao Beti Padhao’ encouraged her to take her woes before the PM. But, she could not manage it due to stringent VIP security arrangements. After the departure of PM she was seen weeping and pleading to officials engaged in PM’s programme to help her out. 
 
 But, no one was there to listen to her. Before some local politicians caught attention as she was continuously wailing in desperation, a few SPG sleuths tried to convince her. It was only when the local politicians enquired the reason of her wailing that she narrated her desperation and agony of her parents (step father) not allowing her to study further.
 
 “The government campaigns for ‘Beti Bachao Beti Padhao’, but when a beti wants to continue her studies she is dropped from the school,” said Vandana, a class X pass out. She said that her father stopped her schooling. “I am tortured by my father whenever I express my desire to study futher,” she said just standing in front of the PM’s green room. She came to attend PM’s meeting all the way from her village approximately 10 Km from the venue with a hope to apprise the PM of her suffering. 
 
 Strangely when TOI contacted her mother Vidya on Saturday, she cited poverty as the main reason behind her daughter’s discontinued study. 
 
 “Hum garib hain, humare paas itna paisa nahi hai ki bachhi ko padha saken,” (We are poor, we do not have enough money to get our children educated), said Vidya, the mother of six. When told about free education facility provided by the government, she probably under the pressure of her husband, a farmer, said, “Jamana kharab hai, ladki ko school bhejne mein dar lagta hai. Aur usko khana pakana, ghar ka kaam bhi to karna chahiye” (We feel insecure in sending her to school, as atmosphere is not conducive. And, she should also know food cooking and household chores). 
 
