Nagpur: After the Centre reiterated its stand that ‘Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act ( ), 2016’, doesn’t have retrospective applicability, the Nagpur bench of Bombay   on Wednesday adjourned the hearing on a plea challenging it till August 21.

 A division bench of Justices Bhushan Dharmadhikari and Rohit Deo allowed petitioners— Swapnil Promoters and Developers, Swapnil Associates, Sukhyog Construction and Guru Construction — to amend their petition within a week but declined to grant any extension to July 31 deadline for registration under the Act.
 
 Appearing on petitioners’ behalf, senior counsel Sunil Manohar informed they would be registering under the Act before Monday’s deadline but prayed for staying any coercive action. Additional solicitor general Anil Singh clarified that if the petitioners didn’t issue any advertisements or take flat bookings from customers, there is no question of taking any action. Accordingly, the petitioners agreed to wait till next hearing. 
 
 Earlier, Singh along with assistant solicitor general Ulhas Aurangabadkar and Mugdha Chandurkar clarified that RERA only applied to projects that had not received ‘completion certificate’ till May 1 this year, as per Section 3(2)(b). Contesting petitioners’ contention, they argued it was not a case of retrospective application of the law, as the ongoing projects were neither complete nor settled. The Act provided for imposition of penalties for violations only subsequent to May 1. It did not violate any constitutional provision, instead it strengthened the constitutional philosophy by bringing in equity and equality in a sector that had hitherto not been regulated, they said.
 
 Construction industry sources said only a small percentage of builders have so far registered their projects under Rera nation-wide; in Maharashtra itself it is barely 15% with hardly five days to go before the deadline. Sources said it is not mandatory to register if the builder does not plan to sell the apartments. 
 
 “In conversations, the term ‘retrospective’ has been loosely used to mean ‘ongoing projects that have not received completion certificate’ are covered,” the affidavit by under secretary of Union ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs Sailesh Jogani mentioned. It added that Section 3(1) provided that all projects that had not received completion certificate needed to register with the regulatory authority before July 31. During registration, the builders would need to provide new timelines for project completion.
 
 “The consumers were suffering since long as their hard earned money is taken by builders and often diverted for other purposes, which leads to delay in the project. The terms of the contract are heavily skewed in favour of builders, thus the consumers are left in the lurch. RERA is a consumer protection law and aims to ensure their money is not diverted by builders and projects are completed in time,” the affidavit stated.
 
 The petitioners argued ever since the RERA was notified, they were facing immense difficulties while completing their ongoing projects. They prayed the Act should not be applicable on the ongoing projects for which completion certificate had not been issued. They contended provisions restricting sale of real estate, opening of escrow account and registration of existing projects with RERA were unconstitutional.
 
 
