GAYA: Amid speculation about a patch-up between JD(U) and BJP, Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Wednesday said it was for Bihar CM   to take a call in the matter. Nitish had scrapped the 17-year-old alliance with BJP in 2013.

 Talking to media persons after campaigning for council Chairman Awadhesh Narain Singh, who is contesting for the Gaya graduates’ seat in the upper house, the minister said the BJP-JD(U) alliance was doing very well in the state and the coalition never hit roadblocks. “The door was shut by Nitish, not us and, as such, he has to unbolt it,” Prasad said.
 
 The council election is scheduled for March 9.
 
 Apparently expressing empathy for Nitish, Prasad said he can very well understand the Bihar CM’s predicament and constraints in running the state administration smoothly. Referring to RJD leader Lalu Prasad’s hints at Nitish abdicating the CM’s chair in favour of his (Lalu) son, the minister said such statements were alarming, indeed.
 
 In a distinctly mild criticism of the CM, Prasad said Nitish was wavering on important issues like demonetisation. Having initially supported the move, the CM was now backtracking by raising less relevant issues vis-à-vis demonetisation.
 
 Praising demonetisation, Prasad said it was a very bold decision that would ultimately transform the country’s economic history. “It is wrong to say that all the money that has been deposited in the banks is now white. People will have to justify their deposits and, as such, the exact quantification of black money may take some time,” he said.
 
 Prasad criticised the Bihar government for not taking advantage of the Centre’s proactive economic development policies. Giving a specific example, he said the IT dept headed by him wanted to start some projects in Bhagalpur and Darbhanga. The state government has so far not extended the desired cooperation and the project’s success greatly depended on the level of cooperation from the state side.
 
 “After all, the state has to provide land for IT centres at Darbhanga and Bhagalpur. Development should be kept out of the purview of partisan politics and political one-upmanship,” Prasad said.
 
 Prasad also said BJP would get a thumping majority in   assembly. Taking a dig at the media, he said they always remember BJP’s setback in Bihar and Delhi and conveniently forget the party’s performance elsewhere, including Maharashtra and Jharkhand.
 
