NEW DELHI: Attorney general   appears to have violated a service rule emphasised by the government, of which he’s the senior-most law officer.
 
  The rule requires all government law officers to advise ministries or public entities only after a request for such counsel has been routed through the law ministry.
  
  Rohatgi, responding to a detailed questionnaire from ET, said the rule in question is “directory, not mandatory,” that the volume of inquiries to law officers made the rule “unworkable” and therefore no violation had taken place.
  
  However, retired justice Nitte Santosh Hegde, who served in the   and was solicitor general and Lokayukta for Karnataka, disagreed with this interpretation, describing the rule as “mandatory.”
  
  On March 31, 2015, Rohatgi had tendered an opinion for the National Textile Corporation ( ), a public sector unit (PSU). The issue was whether the PSU could sell/transfer mill land in Mumbai to the Maharashtra government or one of its entities.
  
  The opinion, which ET has reviewed, was on Rohatgi’s official letterhead and signed in his capacity as attorney general. ET’s review of law ministry documents showed the advice was given without a reference from the law ministry.
  
  This appears to violate Rule 8 of the Law Officers (Conditions of Service) Rules, 1972, which was referred to in an office memorandum issued on October 24, 2014, by the department of legal affairs, law ministry. The rule imposes certain “restrictions” on law officers.
  
  Subsection (e) of Rule 8 states that a law officer “shall not advise any ministry or department… or any statutory organisation or any public sector undertaking unless the proposal or a reference in this regard is received through the ministry of law and justice, department of legal affairs.”
  
 The memorandum, reviewed by ET, was marked to all law officers, including the attorney general, and  , the then joint secretary, legal affairs, wrote: “The undersigned is directed to state that some of the ministries/departments are approaching law officers directly for seeking their opinions/advice.”
  
  Hadke also wrote: “The law officers are requested not to tender opinions/advice… without getting reference from this ministry (the law ministry).”
  
  Rohatgi’s opinion on the NTC matter, reviewed by ET, said: “My opinion has been sought as to whether the querist (NTC) can transfer and sell lands admeasuring approx. 12 acres of Indu 6 Mill situated at Veer Savarkar Marg, Dadar, Mumbai to the state of Maharashtra or any other body authorised by the state of Maharashtra”.
  
  The Maharashtra government sought the land to construct a memorial to BR Ambedkar. The attorney general further wrote: “I have no doubt that the object is laudable and if possible the same should be implemented in right earnest… In my considered view, NTC would be well within its rights… As a first step, seek approval for transfer from the central government for effecting sale/transfer.”
  
  In his detailed emailed response to ET, the attorney general said he “doesn’t remember” whether NTC approached him directly or through the law ministry.
  
  But he emphasised the point that given the volume of law officers’ advisory duties, waiting for references through the law ministry is impractical.
  
  Rohatgi pointed to “thousands of statutory bodies and state/central PSUs coupled with municipal bodies, corporations” and said “all require legal advice,” adding that “if everything is to be routed through… the law minister in Delhi, it would be catastrophic. Normally, most opinions are required on urgent basis.”
  
  The attorney general also told ET: “Importantly, all union ministries regularly seek advice from union law officers directly and not through law ministry. The government itself ignores the rule.”
  
  He gave an example: “My opinion was sought by the home secretary on the crisis in Manipur by coming directly. The advice was sought overnight. Even otherwise, the rule is unworkable given the volume of work. Law officers can’t work in a bureaucratic manner.
  
  They have to respond promptly to the queries.” Rohatgi said the rule, made operational in 2005, “is merely procedural and must have been enacted with the hope that the law ministry may act as a filter so that the burden on law officers is reduced.”
  
  He concluded “routing everything through the law ministry will add huge delays which would not serve any purpose.” Hegde said the rule “has to be obeyed.”
  
  “It is a fig leaf argument to suggest that it (the rule) is merely an advisory. The rule is clearly binding on all law officers… It puts a strict prohibition on law officers from giving an opinion directly to public sector undertakings or any statutory body unless it is has prior approval from the law ministry,” he said.
  
  Despite ET’s efforts over several days, the law secretary’s office and NTC did not respond to emailed queries, phone calls and text messages.
