CHANDIGARH:There may be a link between elevated levels of arsenic in   in Punjab's   and the number of   cases. A recent study by Guru Gobind Singh   and Hospital, Faridkot, has found 3.18%rise in number of such patients in the area. The figure for India is 1per cent.

 The study analysed profiles of skin cancer patients from December 1, 2013, to November 30, 2014. The study ,-whose report was submitted in June 2016, found that 88% patients were from rural areas and 92% were into agriculture, involving prolonged exposure to the sun. Head and neck were the most commonly affected parts .
 
 The report pointed out that exposure to ultra violet B radia tion and higher levels of arsenic in drinking water are said to be associated with skin cancer. With studies showing higher levels of arsenic and pesticides in drinking water in Malwa area , the study mooted a multi-pronged strategy to provide safe drinking water. Sonal Tina Lal, assistant professor, department of plastic surgery , GGS Medical College and Hospital, Faridkot, who conducted the study along with four other faculty members from her department and that of radiotherapy , said there had been increase in incidence of skin cancer in the area.
 
 “Skin cancers are relatively uncommon malignancies worldwide, not ranking among the first 10 common cancers although there has been progressive increase in skin cancer over last few decades. In this case, skin cancer constituted 3.18% of the 2638 patients registered with cancer. This when skin cancer constitutes only 1% of cases of all diagnosed cancer cases in India,“ she said.
 
 The retrospective study was conducted at a tertiary hospital getting cases from Malwa area of Punjab. One year's data of plastic surgery and radiotherapy department was also reviewed. The study had references to previous surveys that con clude that ingestion of arsenic, both from drinking water and medicinal preparations, is known to cause skin cancer.
 
 “Assessment of arsenic in drinking water samples in south-western districts shows that many of the samples taken from existing hand pumps, submersible pumps, tubewells, dugwells (underground water) and municipal water supply had arsenic content beyond permissible limits set by WHO. One of the studies revealed that 80% of water samples analysed had arsenic concentration above the safe limit (10gmL),“ she added.
 
 New strategy
 
 The survey points out the need for a “multi-pronged strategy to provide safe water supply and discouraging the indiscriminate use of pesticides. Implementation of comprehensive cancer registry, which includes exposure to environmental agents, is essential in pinpointing the actual causes“.
 
