THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The depleting water level at Peppara dam has prompted the Kerala   (KWA) to act tough. The   will impose restriction on the 24-hour water supply from March to make public aware of the depleting water level, which could cater to the needs of city residents only for next 60 days. 

 The KWA is in confusion over whether to impose restriction by first week of March or after Attukal pongala, which is scheduled for March 11. The decision to impose restriction was taken after noticing that city residents are callously misusing water even at the time of crisis. It is learned that KWA wanted to give a serious message through restriction that there is indeed a crisis situation in water distribution. 
 
 Even if restriction is imposed, KWA is planning it as a shutdown after every four days. According to KWA superintendent  , the restriction might be imposed only on a single day after every four days. “Restriction on alternative days are not practical in the city. Many high-level regions will get water supply only after second day of pumping. So restriction on alternative days will badly affect high-level areas,” she said.
 
 With a single-day shutdown, KWA hopes to save 400 million litres of water. With this, KWA hopes that the water could be saved till June, when the rains are expected to hit the state. 
 
 Meanwhile, the pongala will pose a major challenge to the KWA as the requirement will be huge. Several areas are expected to feel water crisis due to diversion of water to core areas in the city. According to KWA, around 250 lakh litres of water will be stored for Attukal pongala. In addition to this, around 600 lakh litres of water will be used for pongala on March 10 and 11 each. 
 
 KWA wanted consumers to impose self-regulation in utilizing water for non-drinking purposes such as car washing and watering of plants. It has also given instructions to government offices to close valves after working hours so that wastage of water due to leak could be saved. It also requested construction sector to temporarily stop construction works. KWA feels that such measures could save around 50 mld of water per day. 
 
 Meanwhile, a team of officials including KWA technical member, chief engineer and superintending engineer will visit Peppara to review the situation on Monday. Sources said that they will also check possibility of bringing water from Neyyar to Aruvikkara using an old 700mm pipe, which was used before commissioning of Peppara dam.
 
