NAGPUR: The strike by doctors and pilots of state government run 108 ambulances was called off on Tuesday. The situation is likely to get back to normal from Wednesday. The strike, first since the launch of the ambulance service three years ago, went on for three days, affecting emergency services in various districts including the city.

 Dr  , a Mumbai doctor of ambulance service operator BVG, said, “A meeting was held on Tuesday evening at Pune between   and pilots working across the state with 108 operator BVG group chairman HR Gaikwad.”
 
 President of pilot union (Nagpur) Amol Parmar told TOI, “The authorities from BVG have agreed to our arguments. The authority has assured us that a meeting will be held in one week to decide upon our list of demands.”
 
 During the strike, doctors and pilots had mainly demanded that the MoU between state government and BVG be made public, provision of Provident Fund (PF), medical insurance, regular maintenance of ambulances, provision of rest room at every ambulance point, and fixing working hours of pilots at 8 hours.
 
 Interestingly, the BVG management operating the 108 ambulances in the city is even now not ready to accept that a strike was called in the city. Dr Deepak Ukay said, “How can the strike be called off when there was never a strike in the first place? In the last three days, the services offered by 108 were next to normal.”
 
 If doctors and pilots working in BVG are to be believed, the services in last three days were affected to a great extent as only severe accident cases were being serviced. Parmar said, “Today too, some 37 ambulances were not running. We ignored all calls originating within city limits and had unofficially attended to two accident cases, one at Kamptee and another at  .” Though several ambulances located on the periphery were functioning, no more than 10 calls were attended each day, he claimed.
 
 Doctor union head Dr   said, “Daga Hospital is considered as one of the busiest spots, and gets 10-12 cases of pregnant women carried by 108 each day. However, the hospital received only one case today.”
 
 At the same time, data released by BVG said ambulances had attended to 37 calls on Sunday, the day on which the strike was launched, while 44 calls were completed on Monday and 47 on Tuesday.
 
 
