BJP national secretary   feels the party's national executive meeting (April 15 and 16) will be a turning point in Odisha politics. In an interview with Ashok Pradhan, Pujari discusses the current scenario in   and how BJP stands to gain. 

 
 
 
 The mega event is being held in Odisha after a gap of 20 years. The political situation in Odisha, when the last national executive was held here in 1997, and now are similar in many aspects. The incumbent Congress government in 1997 was perceived corrupt, inefficient and sheltering political criminals. The   dispensation faces the same charges now. The difference is that the BJP was not in a position to offer an alternative government then and had thus encouraged the formation of a regional party, the BJD, and formed an alliance with it. It worked as the Congress could never bounce back after that. This time, however, the BJP is on its way to forming the next government. The national executive will be a turning point in state politics. 
 
 
 
 
 The change is in the air. Our performance in the latest panchayat election here shows people's endorsement of the policies and programmes of the   government. After the rural polls, the BJD is clearly shaken. It has started collapsing. People see the BJP as the only alternative. We will work harder and take BJP's policies to the grassroots. The presence of the entire top leadership of the party here will help us gauge the people's mood better and help us strategize. 
 
 
 
 
 The BJP doesn't need to break the BJD. The regional party will disintegrate on its own because of its inner contradictions. There will certainly be an influx of leaders from other parties, including the BJD, to the BJP. 
 
 
 
 That the BJD should answer. My own assessment is that the BJD leaders are having panic attacks with the growth of the BJP. It is also a manifestation of the growing discontent within the regional party. Their infighting is out in the open. I feel it will collapse sooner than later. 
 
 
 
 
 That was an aberration. The party reacted quickly sending a strong signal that indiscipline has no place. But such things happen in politics. However, with our discipline and ideals, the BJP stands out as a party with a difference.
 
