NEW DELHI: The busy   at Chirag   flyover may soon get decongested as the traffic police have recommended reopening of the   between Masjid Moth to the erstwhile BRT stretch going towards Press Enclave in south Delhi. The bus stop at the mouth of the slip road facing Outer Ring Road will also be removed.

 The Masjid Moth DDA Colony RWA, however, is opposed to this move. Residents of the colony had heaved a sigh of relief when the 60-feet road was closed to traffic several years ago after a series of fatal accidents.
 
 There is disquiet now that road officials are carrying out surveys and video recording the planning process to reopen the road to traffic. “Don’t the officials know why this road was closed in the first place?” asked NL Meena, RWA secretary.
 
 “The Central Road Research Institute (CRRI) had studied the area and recommended the closure of the dangerous stretch and that reasoning still holds true,” Meena added.
 
 RWAs of adjoining colonies like Greater Kailash, however, are happy as this move will decongest a frequently-used route. 
 
 “We have been pursuing this for long. Opening the road will immensely help commuters as 25% of the load on   Dilli flyover will be diverted through this stretch,” said Chetan Sharma, chairman of GK-II Complex RWAs.
 
 “The stretch could not be opened earlier due to the BRT corridor. It should have been opened after the BRT was demolished. Now, the lieutenant governor is directly monitoring the decongestion plan,” Sharma added.
 
 Currently, this heavily-encroached road not only serves as a parking lot for the DDA Colony residents, but it also has dhabas, huts and illegal shops along it. There is apprehension among the residents that after the road is opened the children’s park inside the colony will have to be turned into much-needed parking space.
 
 Deepty Singh, RWA vice-president, pointed out the reasons why residents are opposed to the stretch being reopened.
 
 “Safety will be compromised as people will have open access to the colony once the road is reopened. We will also lose our direct access to Jahanpanah forest. Since our tiny colony is surrounded by busy roads, we will become a polluted and noisy roundabout. The accidents will return too and traffic jams are likely at both ends of the road,” Singh said.
 
 Residents alleged that the drive to open the road is being led by Greater Kailash RWAs as LG Anil Baijal resides there. However, PWD officials in-charge of the project have refuted the allegations. “The police have recommended opening the stretch for easing the traffic load and we have asked CRRI to study the feasibility. We will take action based on their report,” said an official.
 
 
