NEW DELHI: Derisively calling   as  , the high court slammed working of the civic agency and imposed steep costs.

 In a stinging rebuke Justice   also ordered vice chairman of the agency to fix accountability and penalise officials who deprived a man of his flat allotted more than 39 years ago. 
 
 “The initials of   are DDA — also referred to as Don’t Do Anything. It has in the facts of the present case crossed all sensibilities and civilities required for the common citizens of this country,” Justice Valmiki Mehta said, noting that the petitioner is the son of the original allottee and is still embroiled in legal cases against DDA to get alternate plot of much smaller size.
 
 The court found that despite being reprimanded and fined by it earlier, “DDA is no wiser and insists on pursuing its illegal stands to the detriment of the common citizen of this country, as if the Don’t Do Anything (DDA) has really nothing else to do but harass the common man.”
 
 Dismissing the appeal filed by the civic agency against a court decree asking it to hand over possession of a plot in Pitampura, Justice Mehta noted that “this court has received a series of cases where the officers of the DDA are taking rank illegal actions.”
 
  said it has no choice but to “pass directions which have been issued in the present judgment because it is quite clear that certain officers of the appellant/DDA do not understand the difference between rule of law and rule of autocrat coalescing into the rule of jungle.”
 
 Slapping a cost of Rs 1 lac HC directed the VC to ensure it is paid to the son of the allottee by recovering the money “equally and proportionately from each of its officers/employees who have ordered and directed that objections and the appeals be filed and the respondent/decree holder be not granted the plot.”
 
 The court asked the VC to “immediately set up a two-member inquiry committee” comprising senior-most officers who will fix accountability. It directed the VC to “take strict departmental actions in accordance with the service rules of DDA.”
 
