DARLAWNG: At the height of prohibition in  , this village on top of a hill in   district ensured that the tipplers stayed in high spirits. With limited options for livelihood, Darlawng village's dependence on illegal brewing of country liquor made it infamous in a state where the influential church bodies favoured prohibition. 

 It takes over two hours of bumpy ride from the state capital, often on shared sumo taxis, to reach the village, which is slowly showing a transformation, driven by the Union government's rural livelihood project for northeastern states. 
 
  In 2012, two years prior to the lifting of complete prohibition, the state government came down heavily on illegal sale of liquor. This forced villagers to shift to the less lucrative farming, animal rearing and other petty businesses. But they struggled due to lack of experience, entrepreneurial skill and funds. That is when the Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER) ministry stepped in with its North East Rural Livelihood Project (NERLP), with funds coming from the  . 
 
  NERLP first set up a minor irrigation project in Darlawng, with water drawn from nearby streams. "This made a huge difference to the villagers, as farm yield rose and the area under cultivation increased from 20 hectares to over 36 hectares," Reuben Ranglong, the district project manager, said. "Around 130 of the 160 families in the village are now engaged in agriculture and allied activities whereas, earlier, only around 70 families were into it." 
 
  This project increased the production of vegetables, oranges, bananas and ginger in the village. "In addition, a road to help the agricultural work was constructed by the community under MGNREGA," Reuben said. Apart from the irrigation project, 11 self-help groups (SHGs) of 10 women each were formed in the village. With financial help from NERLP, the SHG members started farming or rearing poultry, pigs and fish. An SHG is given Rs 1,00,000 in three instalments over one year. 
 
  "Our focus is on training and capacity building of SHG members and we monitor their progress regularly... We don't want to give them fish, our aim is to teach them how to fish," Reuben said. "There are now many individual success stories in Darlawng village, which was once looked down for its involvement in illegal liquor production." 
 
  (The writer was in Mizoram at the invitation of the DONER ministry ) 
 
 
