NAGPUR: BJP will have no alliance with Shiv Sena, partner in the state government, for the   (NMC), zilla parishad and panchayat samiti elections scheduled to be held in six districts of Vidarbha.

 Chief minister   and Union minister for road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari informed about the decision to party leaders at a meeting held at Ramgiri on Monday.
 
 In a first meeting held to take stock of the graduates’ constituency polls, the two leaders said that tie-up with Sena is welcome if any district unit comes forward to forge alliance at local level. MPs Ramdas Tadas, Ashok Nete, legislators and presidents from all six districts of Nagpur division were present at the meeting.
 
 Fadnavis and Gadkari also directed party functionaries to concentrate on MLC elections in which Nago Ganar is BJP’s candidate.
 
 ZP and PS elections are slated for February 16 and 21 in Wardha, Chandrapur and Gadchiroli districts in Nagpur division.
 
 Later, BJP city core committee meeting was held in the presence of Fadnavis and Gadkari. All legislators of the city and office-bearers of BJP were present.
 
 BJP sources said that Fadnavis and Gadkari made it very that candidates for the NMC elections would be selected on the basis of surveys done by the party.
 
 “The CM informed the meeting about the survey outcome which reportedly revealed that people were unhappy with the works of 80% of the sitting BJP corporators,” party sources said.
 
 “Fadnavis and Gadkari asked party leaders to shortlist the aspirants and forward four names from each of the 151 seats,” sources said.
 
 MLC and incharge of NMC elections Anil Sole, BJP city president Sudhakar Deshmukh and general secretary Sandip Joshi briefed the two leaders about the selection process including interviews held in the last one month.
 
 NCP leader and former South Nagpur MLA   met Fadnavis and Gadkari before the commencement of meeting. There were rumours related to Padole. “I went to invite CM for my son’s marriage. Gadkari too arrived so I also invited him. No politics was discussed,” Padole told TOI.
 
