KOLKATA: As the   (CBFC) continues to throw up censorship rows at regular intervals, many have started questioning the relevance of having a system that forces cuts and beeps in the digital age. At a time when the web has become a repository of unedited and uncertified interesting content, does having an authoritarian scissor-happy   make much of a sense?

 According to actor  , directors Suman Mukhopadhyay, Srijit Mukherji and Soumitra Dastidar, censorship doesn’t have any relevance. “It is a tool that every government uses. Earlier, it was done discretely. Today, it is in your face,” Chaterji said. Mukhopadhyay, who has faced major issues with CBFC during ‘Kangal Malsat’, said, “Censorship is a curse in Indian cinema. There should be a board that rates. It should not censor or give directives. All countries have this rating system and it doesn’t allow to curtail the voice of the artist or force cuts and beeps.” Mukherji pointed out that the market should accept or reject a film and not the CBFC.
 
 The four views are representative of what a large majority of India thinks about censorship. Hence, the question being asked is why has the Cinematograph Act of 1952 been abolished as yet. Even multiple attempts to amend it have proved futile. In 2002 when Atal Bihari Vajapayee was the prime minister, Vijay Anand had wanted to present a new Act in Parliament that would be relevant for the next 50 years. But minds didn’t agree and Anand quit as the CBFC chief.
 
 In 2013 with Manmohan Singh as the prime minister, a panel was constituted under the chairmanship of judicial expert Mukul Mudgal, to review CBFC’s functioning. Leela Samson (the then CBFC Chief),   and Javed Akhtar were part of it. The committee met with leading producers to again decide that that the archaic Act needed amended. The government changed in 2014 and no one heard much about what happened to that committee.
 
 After   took charge of the nation, the   committee was constituted. It also submitted its two-part report advocating scissor-free grading system. Despite 2017 having seen at least five major censorship rows with ‘The Argumentative Indian’, ‘Indu Sarkar’, ‘Jab Harry Met Sejal’, ‘1946 Calcutta Killings’ and ‘Shunyota’, nobody including Benegal knows what’s happening to his committee’s recommendations. “I called up joint secretary of I&B ministry Ashok Parmer to find that out. He said, he would let me know,” Benegal said.
 
 Director Goutam Ghose, who is part of Benegal’s committee, said, “Perhaps, the sluggish pace of the system is responsible for the delay in implementation.”
 
 But not everyone is convinced. Said Mukhopadhyay, “These amendment committees are there for years. I went to a couple of meetings. But nothing moved. They don’t want to give away the power of ruling artists and art works.”
 
 Dastidar sees a larger reason for not being active enough. “The Act is kept handy to gag some people selectively. People in power manipulate it to silence voices of dissent. The Shyam Benegal committee was created so that government can claim that it has an intention to change the Act. But the delay in implementation indicates that there is no will in the current government to change anything,” Dastidar added.
 
 
