SIWAN: There was a clear division in the Bihar BJP ranks over joining the   government sponsored   on Saturday to support prohibition in the state. While the party’s state president   skipped the event, the remaining brass participated in it on the sidelines of the BJP’s two-day state executive committee meet which started here earlier on the day. They also wanted the government to end the practice of home delivery of illegal liquor bottles to those who still consume it. 

 The BJP group led by former deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi (SuMo) and the party’s former state president Mangal Pandey, as well as leader of opposition in the state assembly Prem Kumar insisted that the state government should take more effective steps to prevent the illegal import of Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL) to Bihar from other states and their sale to people through surreptitious means and ways.
 
 SuMo said Rai was busy discussing matters with the party office-bearers and parried away concerns about Giriraj’s opposition to the human chain saying he alone could explain it. BJP’s Maharajganj MP Janardan Singh Sigriwal, who joined the human chain, said he did it just to follow the party line. “Individually, I am opposed to the human chain. It alone will not serve any purpose,” he said.
 
 However, Giriraj was more strident in his opposition to the human chain and dismissed it as “dhokha (sham) and political ‘makadjaal (spiders’ web)’ cast by CM Nitish Kumar”.
 
 “He (Nitish) has been trying to distract people’s minds from the false promises he had made to the people and hide the failures of his government. He has organized human chain for the sake of publicity,” Giriraj said. He also called the prohibition Act ‘Tughlaqi kanoon’. 
 
 SuMo and others tried to clarify the party’s actual stand on the human chain. “From the day one, the BJP has supported total prohibition in the state. However, since April last year when the liquor ban was imposed, 5 lakh litres of illegal liquor has been seized and 30,000 people arrested for carrying or possessing banned liquor. Many of those arrested are first-timers,” Modi said.
 
 He added, “It is obvious that the state government has to make foolproof arrangements to prevent the import of liquor and its sale in Bihar. The banned liquor, in fact, is being reached to the eager liquor consumers through what is called the home delivery system. This should immediately stop.”
 
 Otherwise, separately, Modi, Pandey, Prem Kumar, party’s national spokesman Shahnawaz Hussain and all others reiterated that the party supported the prohibition, but has opposed the “draconian provisions of the Act”. SuMo said illegally carried liquor is being caught and recovered regularly, but no DM, SP or in-charge of police stations had been held responsible. Besides, no mass awareness programme had been held before asking people, including schoolchildren, to participate in the human chain.
 
 
 
 
 * Siwan town was decorated with BJP arches, flags and festoons. The locals said they had never seen such a scene in Siwan because of former RJD MP Mohammad Shahabuddin, who had represented the Lok Sabha constituency quite a few times. He is in jail.
 
 * The roads suddenly got crowded with students and teachers around 11.30am. The girl students were large in numbers and belonged to the minority community.
 
 * The Siwan unit of Indian People’s Theatre Association (IPTA) had a group of schoolboys in fancy dress depicting Mahatma Gandhi and CM Nitish Kumar. The boys in dhoti and carrying lathi depicted Mahatma Gandhi and walked on the side of made-up ‘Nitish’.
 
