A video of the narco-analysis interrogation of   accessed by   shows the former   chief and terrorist admitting on tape that the Samjhauta Express blasts were carried out by those trained in Pakistan. He names Simi operative Adbul Razzak as the person responsible for the explosions that killed 68 people on February 18, 2007.

 The video shows the interrogator asking him, “Who ordered the Samjhauta blasts?” Nagori answers, “Abdul Razzak did this. He is from Indore. He told me, ‘You cannot do anything, you are a politician now.’ He would say, ‘You have retired from SIMI. They give you money and you keep eating and drinking.’ He once told me, ‘You have become a politician, you cannot do jihad, you need a quality life. I will do something or the other now.’”
 
 When asked about Razzak’s contacts in Pakistan, Nagori says, “He has relatives in Pakistan.” Nagori adds, “Abdul Razzaq used to say he could do this on his own. He was in SIMI, he was with Misbah ul Islam Calcuttawala. Abdul Razzaq, he said he could do it on his own. He was SIMI incharge of Indore.”
 
 In the video, Nagori admits he wanted to procure an imported Mauser gun. For this, Nagori says, he contacted LeT operative Nasir and told him he needed it “to punish those culprits for a project”. He adds, “When Nasir told us Mauser and AK47 can be procured, we decided that when we need to target someone and take no risk, we can use the 47. But we wanted to target individuals, and not the masses.”
 
 Nagori says the LeT operative may have given arms to other SIMI members. “Nasir may have had other contacts. He may have delivered to others. Had he given it to any SIMI members connected to me, I would know. But because I don’t know, I can’t say. He may have given it to some other group or he may have given it to another group of SIMI. SIMI has two groups. He could have given it to them. The other group has Imran Ansari and Abdul Razzak. If he has given it to SIMI in Indore, then it must be the second group. He said he will bring it to us but he got arrested.”
 
 Adding that he met Nasir in 2007 October, Nagori says he was unhappy with his arrest and encounter as he knew him since he was a young boy. “I met him for the first time in his house in Hyderabad. We knew he had gone to Pakistan for training. Nasir came to meet me and told me himself he has gone to Pakistan. Before that we thought he had gone for umrah. His sister stays in Jeddah and we thought he is with her.”
 
 “I told him I want to target individuals who demolished Babri masjid, Gujarat, Meerut Hashimpora and Mumbai riots where women were raped, stripped, womb was torn, foetus were removed and shown, people were burnt alive. Those who have done such heinous crimes, that was my target (sic). I told Nasir about my target, that was individuals (sic),” Nagori says in the video.
 
 
