Aurangabad: The four districts of Aurangabad division have registered 44% decline in incidents of   and 68.8% slump in   cases till September this year, compared to the corresponding period last.

 As per the figures obtained from the divisional malaria prevention office here, the division, comprising Aurangabad, Jalna, Parbhani and Hingoli districts, also managed to keep away from any chikungunya case.
 
 Thirty-nine dengue cases were detected in the division in the first nine months of this year, against 125 cases in the corresponding period in 2016. In case of malaria, 19 cases were detected (34 in till September 2016). Aurangabad district had the highest number of malaria and dengue cases during the period under review in both the years.
 
 District malaria officer Anil Patil said the department’s entomological surveillance, fever surveillance, information education and communication (IEC) programme, preventive and remedial fogging, dry days, and abetting efforts have proved efficient in controlling malaria and dengue in the district.
 
 “Our teams work proactively ahead and during the rainy season to gather data on the vector species so that they can flag any unusual species and action can be taken accordingly,” said Patil. 
 
 As per a system practised to detect early outbreak of mosquito-related diseases, the health department also undertakes fever surveillance. A weekly report of all fever cases from the municipal corporation, rural health centres and sub-district hospitals are sent to the malaria office. Serum samples in all suspected malaria and dengue cases are checked and if the diagnosis is positive they are referred to the Government Medical College and Hospital, Patil said.
 
 The malaria office also carried out house-to-house surveys in which water containers are checked for presence of mosquito larvae. If containers like water tanks, utensils, coolers are found to possess larvae, abetment measures are carried out, Patil said. 
 
 “A weekly dry day drill is carried out in rural areas under which all containers are emptied and dried to eliminate mosquito breeding grounds. This is very effective but can be practised in areas which are water sufficient. In other areas, abetting and fogging are intensified to control the vector outbreak,” he added.
 
 The department said that it has enough stock of insecticides to cater to the entire division.
 
 
