AHMEDABAD: After the Gujarat Self-financed Schools (Regulation of Fees) Bill 2017 was passed in the legislative assembly on Thursday, it appears as though the school authorities and the government officials were at loggerheads. The rift between the two parties was evident. Sources said that school managements will hold a meeting next week and decide upon the further course of action.

   , president, Gujarat State Self-financed School Management Association, said, “This bill is against our rights and schools cannot operate this way, with little funds and limited budget. If this continues for longer, we may end up shutting down certain schools and the likelihood of establishing new schools will further go down.”
 
 Management representatives of around 10,000 schools from across the state will soon be gathering in Surat for the association’s executive committee meeting. “After seeking necessary legal advice, we may move the high court if need be,” he added, alleging that the government-run schools themselves have an expenditure of Rs 32,000 to Rs 40,000. Manan Choksi, secretary,  , said, “With such meagre fee amount, we cannot even afford the salaries of two teachers. If the government has proposed the reduced fees, it must also teach us how to run the school with limited fees. This way, the quality of education will go down. In fact, primary schools in urban areas that are run by government have expenditure of Rs 32,000 then how can they expect us to operate at a significantly lesser cost.”
 
 While members of   are delighted with the decision, they claim that it won’t make a significant difference in semi-urban and rural areas.  , member, Parents Association, said, “Students and parents will benefit from the decision, especially in the urban areas. However, the move may have an adverse impact on those from rural areas as fees in most schools are already in the range of Rs 5,000 to Rs 10,000 in these areas. This way, the schools will only get an opportunity to hike the fees.”
 
 “Instead of generalizing the fees, government should rather initiate strict action against schools that hike fees recklessly,” added Choudhury.
 
 Times View
 
 The state government’s move to pass a law regulating fees in self-financed schools is welcome and would immensely benefit the parents of lakhs of children. The real test for the government would however lie in its effective implementation. In the past, the government has banned tuition by schoolteachers, donation, capitation and development fee charged by schools at the time of admission etc, but the practices continue as law remains mostly only on paper.
 
