You probably don’t put in much thought into what you wear on the treadmill, yoga session or while out jogging at the park. But a recent study conducted by a leading website reveals that fashion-forward activewear can make you feel sexy and attractive while you’re working out – and not just after. Good enough reason to give your standard pair of T-shirt and sweats a stylish upgrade. 

 
 
 Celebrity zumba trainer Sucheta Pal believes chic workout gear has become a wardrobe staple for every health-conscious fashionista. “From being purely functional or comfortable, fitness fashion has evolved into something that’s stylish yet functional, sexy yet comfy. This, in a way, inspires you to embrace a fit lifestyle and encourages you to stay active,” she says. From crop tops, patterned leggings and chic fitness trackers to gym bags, bright sneakers, light-weight jackets and baseball hats, you’re spoilt for choice. 
 
 Moreover, activewear is now on-the-go wear and lounging at a coffee shop in your yoga pants is the norm. Athleisure, anyone? The reason these looks are becoming a staple is that it doesn’t take a lot of effort to look sassy in a pair of joggers and a racerback. 
 
 
 
 Pallavi Barman, marketing and design expert with a leading fitness apparel brand mentions that nowadays exercise is ingrained in our lifestyle and both men and women spend at least an hour or two working out every day. “With fitness becoming a top priority, fitness wear is increasingly becoming futuristic and a firm favourite of millennials. They love to sport it anywhere and everywhere, for both perspiration and recreation,” she adds. 
 
 Even meditation wear gets a style upgrade, as people kit out in loose yet smart pair of yoga pants and tunics. Because the clothing you wear can set the tone for your meditation, as well. Pick pastels in breathable materials like cotton and bamboo.
 
 Working out at home? Add a bit of quirk by wearing an outfit you might not wear to a public gym – like a bright, cut-out performance sports bra. The cut-out look with mesh detailing is functional, fashionable and bold
 
 
 
 1. Pick seamless underwear so that the lines don’t show.
 2. Tropical and floral motifs on pants and leggings are here to stay.
 3. Bomber jackets can never be out of style. 
 4. Mesh tank tops help you stay chic and comfortable. Wear them over vests or sports bras.
 5. Don’t wear any makeup during your workout except for a nude-coloured lipstick or lip balms in subtle, rosy shades.
 6. You don’t want your hair interfering with your fitness regimen. 
 7. Put them up in a high bun or a fishtail braid.
 8. A duffle bag or yoga bag with loads of interior pockets to hold your phone, keys, charger and wallet adds to convenience.
 
 
 
 Yoga clothing must be fluid, and if possible, organic. If you practice power or hybrid yoga, go for seamless activewear. Low cuts are a no-no. Go for earthy prints
 
 
 
 Pick a suit that allows flexibility. Open-back one-piece swimsuits and zip-through tops are having a moment.
 
 
 
 Printed tees are in vogue. Don a hoodie jacket zipped up all the way. A good pair of shoes and mesh leggings are workout must-haves.
 
 
 
 Sport a bodysuit. Add or minus layers. Seamless well-fitted tights, a pop-coloured sports bra and neon crop tops are other options. Add leg warmers.
 
 
 
 Outdoor workouts need a bottom with an elastic waistband. Colourful tights with a sports bra and mesh bomber is just right for a power-packed day.
 
 
 
 Be it a velvety piece in dark colours or a sporty striped number, tracksuits add instant glamour to your sporty attire.
 
 
 
 Polyester vests and shorts is a perfect outfit for any kind of racquet sport. Or go for skirt shorts. Spice up with wrist bands and a cap.
 
 
 
 Colourful socks and wrist bands 
 A chic shaker bottle in neon or glitter
 A smart heart rate tracker or sports watch 
 Eye-catching headphones and earphones
 A bag with fitness one liners 
 
 
 
