CHENNAI: Abuse,   and neglect cratered their paths that eventually led to  . In the past six years, 17,000 of these children are back to the world they fled, many vanishing from the state’s radar. 

 Department of social defence data accessed by TOI shows that since 2011, the government closed 843 unregistered child care institutions, 300 in April-June 2017. Of the 18,500 children rescued from these homes, 17,300 were handed over to their parents; the rest were admitted to other registered institutions.
 
 Social defence commissioner R Lalvena said many homes applied for fresh registration. “Some have been granted, the remaining are pending approval,” he said, adding that children were being restored to parents wherever possible. Efforts are on to upload on the department website, for the benefit of donors and public, a list of unregistered homes lacking minimum standards and those closed down for incidence of abuse.
 
 While officials pat themselves for the crackdown on unlicensed institutions, several child rights activists evinced surprise at the “massive number” of children with families staying in orphanages. Legal researcher Swagata Raha of Bengaluru-based Centre for Child and the Law said a probe was needed into how these children landed in these institutions in the first place and whether they were produced before the child welfare committee (CWC) as mandated by the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015. “If the state trusts the families of 17,000 children enough to send them back now, why wasn’t this done earlier,” she asked. 
 
 A Narayanan from ChangeIndia, an NGO, said he had written to the government and moved the high court requesting the department of social defence to ensure only “children in need of care and protection” as defined in the Juvenile Justice Act are kept in child care institutions. 
 
 While the Act mandates that the respective CWCs be intimated before a child is admitted or moved out of a child care institution, the numbers are as much a revelation to the members of some of these panels as they were to experts. Kancheepuram accounted for the most unregistered homes shut (108) and of the 1,700 children rescued from these institutions 1,300 were returned to their families. “These figures show children are being moved out without the knowledge of the CWC,” said Zaheeruddin Mohammad, CWC, Kancheepuram district, who said at least 80% of the children produced before them in the past five years were referred to other registered homes. 
 
 Experts say Tamil Nadu has the highest number of child care institutions, with around 1,300 registered homes and more cropping up every month. Child rights campaigners estimate that 200,000 children in the state are in private orphanages, state-supported care homes, Islamic madrassas, temples or hostels. Many are not orphans but placed in institutional care by families too poor to feed, clothe and shelter them.
 
 R Vidyasagar, former child protection specialist,  , said handing over children to their families is a positive trend but said the state lacked a concrete follow-up mechanism. “The district child protection units are required to continuously follow up on the children, depending on their vulnerability, but that rarely happens,” he said.
 
 Children are also given options of foster care and financial assistance under the Integrated Child Protection Scheme. But, officials say this is limited only to a few.
 
 
