HYDERABAD: Just as temperatures in the city started to race past the 38 degree Celsius mark, Anamika M got busy packing her bags. Two weeks later, she bid adieu to her apartment in Manikonda, her home for three years, and moved into a new rented space in Himayathnagar. That the distance between her residence and workplace jumped from five to 16 kilometres because of the shift did not seem to bother the IT professional too much.

 “At least now I do not have to fret over when I will get water,” the 33-year-old said. “I had a tough time coping with scarcity of water during last summer. I ended up paying a lot of money to buy water and therefore decided to move out for good. Now, even if I travel to work in a cab every day, I’ll still spend less,” she said.
 
 Of course, Anamika has the luxury of working from home as and when required. But even those who don’t are contemplating a change of address, thanks to extremely thin water supply. Sources from the Hyderabad Metropolitan   & Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB) agree that major areas within Cyberabad limits, including  , Madhapur and Hi-Tec City, are reeling under a severe crisis with no respite in sight anytime soon.
 
 At present, most residential pockets in the western corridor receive water not more than two-three days a week. Unchecked drilling of borewells has led to a steep depletion in the groundwater level in this region, making matters worse.
 
 “Over the last few weeks, there have been times when we didn’t have a drop of water for two days at a stretch. Despite paying extra maintenance, the problem still persists. Moving out of this home is the only solution now,” said Deepak Raj, a resident of   in Gachibowli. 
 
 He has even put off his plan to buy a home in the area. “We are told that the situation will improve with the authorities pumping in water from Krishna and Godavari. I’ll think of putting my money here once that happens,” the sales executive said. 
 
 In Chandanagar, Priya Shivam has made her peace with paying an additional Rs 1,500 every month during summer. “Every year, our maintenance fee is hiked from the usual Rs 2,500 to buy extra tankers,” said the software engineer.
 
 
