CHENNAI: The centrally-funded Jawahar   Vidyalayas (JNVs), which aim to provide quality education to select rural students, may soon be seen across  .

 With the   (NVS), which governs the functioning of the schools, recently clarifying that Hindi would not be made a compulsory subject, there may not be any more hurdles in opening the JNVs in the state.
 
 Land requirement and alignment with Tamil Nadu's language policy are being studied, school education department sources said, adding that one such school could be set up in each of the 32 districts if the proposal is cleared.
 
 The state cabinet, which is expected to meet soon, will ta ke the final call to set up these residential schools affiliated to the CBSE, sources said.
 
 Though more than 600 JNVs have been set up across the country since the scheme's inception in 1986, Tamil Nadu is the only state not to have a JNV . This is because of the perception that disproportionate importance is given to Hindi in these schools.
 
 The schools teach English, Hindi and the regional language. Tamil Nadu presently follows a two-language formula (Tamil and English) and has vigorously opposed imposition of a third language, particularly Hindi, since the 1930s.
 
 Experts said by being stubborn, Tamil Nadu has lost out on another venue for quality education. The first language in JNVs from Classes VI h to VIII is either the re gional language or the mother tongue and it would be Tamil in the case of Tamil Nadu.
 
 This is in line with the state's language policy as announced in 2006 by the Tamil Nadu government through a gazette notification, said B  , principal of JNV , Puducherry , who appeared in the court on behalf of the commissioner of NVS.
 
 “The document says Tamil should be compulsory , English would be the second language and allows students to study a third language, if the mother tongue is not Tamil. This is what JNVs have been practising for three decades," he told TOI.
 
 Highly-placed sources in the state school education depart ment said that besides this, Tamil would continue to be taught as a compulsory subject in Class X and XI and JNVs would not violate the Tamil Learning Act, 2006.
 
 With respect to the medium of instruction, it is again only the regional language or mother tongue up to Class VIII and English from then on. “This is what the Tamil Nadu government is presently practising.More and more English-medium classes are being introduced in high and higher secondary sections. So there was no reason to oppose this," sources added.
 
 Following the cabinet's nod, the department would allocate 15 acres of land in each of the 32 districts to the central government, which would in turn provide Rs 640 (Rs 20 crore for each school) as non-recurring cost this year and nearly Rs 300 crore as recurring cost in subsequent years.
 
