NAGPUR: The  , who were imprisoned at   in  , has been condensed in a book titled ‘Andaman Ki Vyatha Nicobar ki Katha’ by author  . The book was launched at Patrakar Bhavan recently.

 Retired judge of the Bombay High Court Kishore Rohi, former minister Nana Embadwar, noted thinker MG Vaidya, joint commissioner of police Shivaji Bodkhe, poet Sudhakar Gaidhani and head of Nathe Publications Sanjay Nathe were present at the function.
 
 The Cellular Jail is also referred to as ‘kala pani’. Wamanrao, in his book, says that the name ‘kala pani’ was given when the Andaman-Nicobar Manual was created under the colonial era ‘penal settlement’ regime in which the definition of ‘transfer station for life’ i.e. punishment to kala (lifetime) pani (water) was inscribed. 
 
 According to Wamanrao, the islands are equally important to the country as other states and union territories. He said, “While talking about the length of India, people count the distance between Kashmir and Kanyakumari, which is wrong. When Andaman-Nicobar is part of India, then we must count the length from Kashmir to ‘Pygmalion Point’. This point is now known as Indira Point.”
 
 The book is divided into two sections. The first is about the Andaman Islands where he talks about the history of the place and its native inhabitants. The second part is about the Nicobar Islands which talks about the Cellular Jail and its prisoners. Wamanrao has also mentioned names of all the inmates on ‘kala pani’ and photographs of freedom fighters who were imprisoned there.
 
 Wamanrao said, “There are two types of communities in Andaman-Nicobar. One is the local community which comprises kin of murderers and miscreants convicted in the mainland and deported to the islands. The other is a community of descendants of freedom fighters.”
 
 Wamanrao, while visiting the islands, took a tour to the southernmost point of India, Indira Point in Nicobar Islands. He said, “One cannot simply go to Pygmalion Point (former name of Indira Point). You need to obtain permission from the collector of Nicobar district.”
 
 “After we got the permission, it took us four days to reach Indira Point. There is a hill which is as high as the Qutub Minar and from there one can almost see Sumatra and Indonesia which is 140 kilometres away. At night, it feels as if the Sun is just about to rise from the horizon,” he said.
 
 
