 In the economically hobbled mining-belt constituency of   in North Goa, where a seven-corner fight has been laid out for the assembly seat from his constituency, the outcome of the February 4 polls will tell whether the   (BJP) reaps dividends of the doles and development its government dealt to the mining-affected people here.
 
  Despite seven candidates throwing their hats into the ring, the main fight will be between BJP candidate and incumbent MLA  , Congress candidate and Sakhali municipal council (MMC) chairperson   and Goa Suraksha Manch (GSM) candidate and former health minister  .
  
  The other candidates are: Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) candidate and former Pale MLA Pratap Gauns, Aap Aadmi Party (AAP) candidate Milind Gauns, Goa Su-Raj Party (GSRP) candidate Moulali Shaikh, and independent candidates Shantaram Parab and Mahesh Gauns.
  
  After the 2012 delimitation the Pale constituency was renamed Sakhali. It has been a trend among the voters here to give their mandate to either the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP) or the BJP.
  
  During the 2012 assembly elections, the constituency, which is largely dependent on the mining industry, had rallied behind the BJP based on its promise to take action against illegal mining.
  
  Five years down the line everything has changed in the constituency.
  
  Immediately on coming to power in September 2012, the BJP government suspended mining activities in the state, which resulted in the people of the area losing employment.
  
  The state government then gave doles to the economically hit families of the mining dependent to assuage them. Sawant took a lot of initiative to ensure that government schemes reached each and every one of these families. The government even paid off the loans of truck owners, of whom there were many in the constituency.
  
  “Despite the government paying doles to the mining-affected families to sustain their livelihood during the mining ban in the state, people remained unhappy as the dole was much less compared to their mining income,” a political analyst said.
  
  Sawant’s overall performance has been satisfactory as he has completed a lot of projects in the constituency. Thanks to him the people now have a Ravindra Bhavan, swimming pool, wide roads, a sewerage treatment plant, etc. But whether his developmental works will now translate into votes, thus securing him a second term, remains to be seen, say political analysts.
  
  “Even if a lot of development was undertaken in Sakhali, unemployment remains a major issue in the constituency,” a political commentator observed. During the mining ban, several people lost their jobs and with there being no other industry in the area, unemployment reigns here.
  
  The truck owners who came out in strong support for Sawant during the 2012 assembly election are hurt this time, says another political observer, who adds that the key truck owners hold the cards for a favourable result.
  
  Besides mining-ban related unemployment issues, several other related problems to the same subject of mining have come up in the constituency, including rates for transportation of iron ore. The area was witness to several agitations a few months before elections were announced and truck owners are unhappy with Sawant for his supportive stand towards mining companies.
  
  In this atmosphere, Saglani and Amonkar are Sawant’s toughest competitors.
  
  Saglani commenced his campaign more than a year ago, when he opened an office there, and has since been available to the electorate, solving their problems.
  
  As MMC chairperson, Saglani has taken the initiative to carry out development works in municipal areas, a political observer said, and added that people are aware of all the good work he has done, thus making him a strong opponent to Sawant.
  
  Congress opted for Saglani over president of Goa Pradesh Mahila Congress Sunita Verekar, who is known to be a close aide of Valpoi MLA Vishwajit Rane.
  
  “Saglani is a Gujarati and BJP is trying to consolidate on this so that local sentiment is encased,” a political observer said, and added that if people decide not support a Gujarati, then Saglani will be in trouble.
  
  For its part, the GSM too, has been very active. In the Sakhali area there is a sizeable RSS cadre and Amonkar, being a known face for them, this can spell trouble for the BJP, a political analyst said.
  
  In 2012, Amonkar had joined the BJP and supported Sawant. Since then, Amonkar had maintained a low profile, mostly remaining inactive in politics. That was till GSM announced him as their candidate for the 2017 elections. With the fledgling party, born out of the differing medium of instruction stand between the RSS and its political outfit the BJP, determined to see the BJP defeated in this elections, and working very hard in this direction, Sawant’s other biggest opponent remains Amonkar.
