 has wings on her feet. In the first week of May, she was in South Africa continuing her six-year stint as UNICEF's Global Goodwill Ambassador. She then made heads turn in a special edition   trench coat dress at the MET gala and back in New York, PeeCee's cop-drama, 'Quantico', was renewed for a 13-episode third season to roll in August, despite show runner Joshua Safran stepping down. "It's back to 5 am call time, 15 back-to-back scenes a day and 16-hour shoots," the   sighs tiredly. And she still has the energy for more. Even before the release of her Hollywood debut, Seth Gordon's 'Baywatch', she's signed up for Silas Howard's transgender-drama, 'A Kid Like Jake'. 

  
  
 The indie film is based on  's play by the same name. It will feature Emmy-winning actress Claire Danes and 'The Big Bang' Theory star Jim Parsons playing Alex and Greg, a Brooklyn couple trying to get their four year-old son Jake, who prefers dressing as a princess to a GI Joe, into a top private school in New York. PeeCee plays Amal, a friend of the couple and a single-mom trying to navigate the school system while balancing her love life.
 
 "I always try to do something different. When I arrived in America for Quantico, I was excited about my first magazine cover, first talk show and first Hollywood film. After playing a positive character like Alex Parrish, it was a conscious choice to do a big, tent-pole global drama like Baywatch. I still don't want to repeat myself," she said, explaining her unusual choice of films.
 
 Meanwhile, in 'Baywatch', which also features Dwayne Johnson and  , her character, Victoria Leeds, uses a lot of cuss words. It was passed with a `R' rating in the West and got an `A' certification with five verbal cuts back home. “Dropping the F-bomb was scary!" PeeCee admits. “The first time I did, I turned red with embarrassment. During Kaminey, Vishal sir (director Vishal Bhardwaj) kept telling me, `Ek gaali de do na,' but I refused. I'm really self conscious about abusing on screen but this time, I was aware that Baywatch is an R-rated film and it was my job to fit into my badass character. Its a great summer film but don't take your kids."
 
 PeeCee jokes that it is every   actor's “birthright to shoot for a slow-mo sequence" but rues that Victoria doesn't run even when she's up against six lifeguards. "She's feminine but pure evil, there's something scary about her," said PeeCee, whose fave vamp is Kajol in 'Gupt'.
 
 It's been three years since PeeCee crossed over to the West and though the US press has been kind to her, she's had run-ins with racism and stereotyping. "At the moment, I'm the most popular brown face there. But there's no denying that a stereotype about our country, people, film industry and the kind of work actors do, exists. I've been asked repeatedly if elephants walk on roads, how I speak such accurate English and if I break into a dance sequence everyday," she admits.
 
 She's taken a conscious decision to break the stereotypes and ensure that the makers there can never raise questions about her work, which directly reflects Bollywood. No director has to ever tell her how to deliver lines or which mark is hers. "Whenever a director in the West works with me, I feel I've made the directors I worked with back home proud. How I miss Hindi films and Mumbai. Then again, I knew I was getting into a long commitment with Quantico from the start," she said, the yearning in her voice all too apparent.
 
 Meanwhile, the actress stands by her "single status". Point out that there were sparks flying between Brit star Tom Hiddleston and her at the Emmy Awards and social media had referred to them as HiddleChopps and she smiles,"I don't indulge in gossip. I chat with someone for 15 minutes and people start gossiping. As a public personality, you have to live with it.
 
 On more than one occasion  , who made her Hollywood debut earlier this year alongside Vin Diesel in xXx: Return of  , has been mistaken for Priyanka Chopra by the American paparazzi. Deepika referred to one such recent episode as “an act of racism“. PeeCee is equally outraged.
 
 "That was unfair and a serious case of ignorance. It's not right, every brown girl does not look the same. Indians constitute one-fifth of the world's population and the representation of our prolific film industry in world cinema is our responsibility. We have to put ourselves out there," she reasons.
 
 She's quick to add that the American media has been exceptionally encouraging and accepting."Just because I am a big star in India, doesn't mean I should be treated like one in every country. I haven't seen the American media as accepting of many Indian actors as they are with me. They are wonderful with me!" she exults.
 
  
  
  
  
 
