AMRITSAR: A cartoon of Canadian defence minister   published in a newspaper from Calgary in Alberta province using Sikhs’   reference to mock him has infuriated Sikh masses on the   In the cartoon published in ‘The Calgary Sun,’ Sajjan has been shown being boiled in a cauldron, the way Bhai Dayal, a Sikh martyr, was executed by boiling alive, which has infuriated the community members across the globe.

 Reacting to the outburst of Sikhs, the editor of the newspaper wrote, “The cartoon was not meant to be insulting to Sikhs, and I understand some have misinterpreted it that way. It was to be a pun on the minister stewing in his own lies.”
 
 Roop K Rai stated on her Facebook page that the reference used for the cartoon was an important aspect of the Sikh history of sacrifice and valour. “Thousands of Sikhs sacrificed their lives to save so many more and using an entire minority group’s religious and historical reference to mock a modern day political and partisan controversy reeks of racism and bigotry. I am hurt seeing that this is happening in Alberta! The same province that celebrated   in April,” she has mentioned.
 
 Roop Sidhu commented, “Absolutely unacceptable, instead of few contacting the newspaper, maybe a petition would be more effective and pressing measure to stand up against this kind of insensitivity”. Raj Dhaliwal stated, “This is disguising, it shouldn’t be acceptable anywhere in Canada. A collective stand must be taken before such bigotry becomes a normal stay. Again, this is repugnant to Canadian values.”
 
 However, there are others who didn’t mind publishing such a cartoon as Gurcharan Singh mentioned, “In my opinion this is ok in a free and democratic society. Don’t read the newspaper if you are offended.” Dalbir Sangione said that, “Please don’t bring religion in cartoon. Sajjan is a Canadian   and bringing his ethnicity and background from political angle is not good. Sajjan should be dealt as politician. Sikh religion has nothing to do with this. Don’t make fool of yourself.”
 
