BALLARI/HUBBALLI: Around 15 people were injured when the 65ft Guru   temple chariot toppled over in Kotturu in Ballari district on Tuesday evening. 

 The incident occurred on the last day of the   annual fair, which is celebrated three days prior to   and attracts over two lakh devotees from across north Karnataka. The procession is taken out in honour of the 15th century saint Guru Kottureshwara and devotees pull the chariot.
 
 Inspector general of police (Ballari range) S Murugan said: "There have been no fatalities. The injured were rescued and are being treated. We are investigating how the chariot veered to a side and fell."
 
 The chariot procession started around 5.30pm from the temple and had been pulled along by devotees for around 300m when the incident happened.  , a devotee, said: "I was watching the chariot when there was a scraping sound. As the chariot titled we could see people running helter-skelter. Before we could figure out what was happening, the chariot had fallen on the road. We could hear people screaming for help."
 
 Police said around 60 people were trapped under the chariot. The area was cordoned off and the devotees were pulled out. Hospet deputy superintendent of police Savishankar Nayak told TOI: "The axle supporting the wheels could have broken, causing the chariot to fall to the right," he said. "We used cranes to raise the fallen chariot and rescue people. In three to four hours, we rescued everyone."
 
 The public works department suspected that the accident could have been caused by a faulty wheel. Pampapathi, PWD executive engineer of Hoovinahadagali division, said: "One of the wheels was not in good condition. We had directed the temple authorities to prepare a new wheel and clearance was given last week."
 
 The injured were shifted them to Davangere hospital and are out of danger.
 
  The secular fair 
 
 The Guru Kottureshwara fair is very popular in Ballari and adjoining districts as people from different communities participate and the first puja is conducted by Dalit women. Devotees walk to the temple town from Ballari, Davanagere, Shivamogga, Chitradurga and Bengaluru. Though devotees used to throw bananas at the chariot, the district administration had banned it this year. 
 
 
