Ravi Udyawar, who makes his feature film debut with Sridevi's comeback project, 'Mom', had met her producer-husband   back in 2014 to discuss the film. He had been asked to develop the idea. “It's a mother-daughter story, a relationship I'd always wanted to explore. When the script was ready, I narrated it to   ma'am who was keen to pick the right project as a follow-up to the successful English Vinglish. She loved it!" Ravi exults. Buzz is, he has also convinced her to sing. “There is a song about mothers which will be used in the background. She might sing that but nothing is final yet," he says evasively.

  
  
 The film had inadvertently landed in trouble for featuring two Pakistani artistes. In the aftermath of the Uri attacks last September, Pakistani artistes were banned from working in Indian projects. Two of his central characters -Sridevi's daughter and husband -are played by Sajal Ali and Adnan Siddiqui, actors from across the border.
 
 The debutant is understandably uncomfortable when you broach the subject, pointing out that they kicked off in March, 2016, and 90 per cent of the film was completed when the attacks happened. “For the remaining portions, we had to recreate Delhi in Bangkok. All I can say on this subject is that I respect the new laws that have been made in this context," Ravi says cautiously. The impromptu international schedule must have overshot the film's budget? “Obviously it did. The entire crew travels along," he retorts.
 
 Mirror had reported recently that it was Sridevi and Boney's elder daughter Jhanvi, who first spotted Adnan in the Angelina Jolie-starrer 'A Mighty Heart' and insisted that he be roped in to play the husband in their home production. Which makes one wonder -was there ever any discussion about getting either Jhanvi or her younger sister Khushi to play Sridevi's onscreen daughter?
 
 “Everyone knows Khushi and Jhanvi as Sridevi ma'am's daughters. We were looking for a new face as it's a very different character, so there was no discussion."
 
 On his film's antagonist,  , Ravi points out that the character isn't exactly negative and that Nawaz would so effortlessly slip into the role that people would forget it's him. “We waited for nearly six months to get him on-board. Boney sir made it happen," he says gratefully, recalling how once, when they were shooting on a street in Delhi, two men came on a bike and asked Nawaz about the shooting. “They failed to recognise him as he was completely in character. Even Sridevi ma'am once didn't recognise Nawaz on the set," he laughs.
 
  
  
 
