GHAZIABAD: A 15-year-old girl was rescued by the police from Sahibabad from the clutches of a woman allegedly running a  .

 The accused woman, Tara, was arrested in the early hours of Friday on the charge of pushing the minor girl into prostitution. The girl had approached the police after being in Tara’s captivity for about 10 days. In her complaint, the minor, who is from Roorkee in Uttarakhand, said she was befriended by Tara in a train when she was on her way to Shamli and lured to her house in   in Sahibabad. She was then forced into prostitution, according to the girl.
 
 An FIR under Section 376 (rape) and under the provisions of POCSO Act was lodged against the accused Tara and five other people who are yet to be identified.
 
 The police suspect that Tara was running a full-fledged   in the area with assistance from people in Delhi. “We are still in the process of questioning her to know about the modus operandi of hers and that of others involved and in the days to come we will be making more arrests,” Singh said. The girl, meanwhile, will be recording her statement under Section 164 of CrPc before the magistrate on Friday.
 
 According to Anup Singh, circle officer of Sahibabad, the girl had boarded a train on March 4 from Roorke to Shamli where she lives with her maternal uncle. “In her complaint to the police she said that since she was travelling alone a woman who was later identified as Tara came up to her and started talking,” Singh said.
 
 “During the course of the conversation on the train, Tara extracted details about her family and, sensing her vulnerability, convinced the victim to accompany her to her house in Ghaziabad’s Shalimar Garden, which the girl agreed to,” Singh said.
 
 After reaching her house with the girl, Tara confined her to a room and according to the FIR, the very next day four men were sent who took turns to rape her. “While narrating her ordeal, the victim told the police that after four men raped her, the woman sent in more men who forced themselves upon her,” Singh said.
 
 “On March 6, Tara took her to another woman in  , who suggested that the girl get used to ‘opening up’ by getting into ‘friendship clubs’ on the internet,” Singh said. According to the police, on March 13, when Tara got the impression that the girl would run away, she sent the minor to her friend’s house in Lakshmi Nagar. “The girl went by an auto to the Ashok Vihar police station in Delhi, from where the cops brought her to the Sahibabad police station,” Singh said.
 
 “An FIR was lodged against Tara and five unknown persons based on the information provided by the victim. We are questioning the accused woman about the identities of the five others mentioned in the FIR,” Singh said.
 
 
