GURUGRAM: The   of Gurgaon police, who was recently booked, along with jailed gangster   in a   case for threatening the complainant, has claimed that the charges against him are false and he is being framed by the complainant. The accused cop said he never spoke to Mahal and neither did he threaten the complainant. 

 In the recent land fraud case an FIR under sections 506 (threatening) and 384 (extortion) was registered against plot owner Raj Kumar, ASI   and gangster Manjeet Mahal, on the complaint of Rakesh Kumar, who claimed that the plot owner refused to transfer the plot in his name, despite Rakesh paying him Rs 20 lakh for the plot of land in Sector 45.
 
 ASI Raj Singh told TOI that he was approached by Rakesh Kumar himself, who he knew him through his nephew, the slain gangster Mahesh Attack, for reconciliation between the two parties. Rakesh was called to the Sector 53 police station on Wednesday. Singh clarified that he also knew the other party, land owner Raj Kumar, through a relative. He said when Rakesh called him to the Sector 53 police station on July 10, after the two parties already had several fights; he decided to come down because he knew both the parties. He said that when he saw the affidavit Rakesh was carrying, he realised that it was fake, and told him that he didn't want to get involved in the matter, and left the police station, asking the two parties to sort out the matter amongst them.
 
 ASI Singh also said he now fears for his life because suddenly his name is being associated with a gangster, who he has never seen, met or spoken to. “His enemies have suddenly become my enemies, just because of this conspiracy,” said ASI Singh.
 
 ASI Singh was arrested on Friday after the complaint was filed, and was granted bail on Saturday. The 52-year-old cop claimed that he has been a victim of a similar conspiracy previously, where he was framed, when senior officials used an anonymous complaint to start an investigation against him. 
 
 Singh said he was summoned by the then ACP (crime) Rajesh Chechi of Gurgaon police, currently stationed in Faridabad, for the matter. Singh was told to meet the police PRO Subhash Bhokan, who asked him to pay Rs 25 lakh to make sure he wasn’t booked and suspended subsequently. Singh said that he could pay only Rs 13 lakh and two days after he made the payment the cops raided his house and booked him and his wife in the case, which is still on in the court. Singh has claimed that then police commissioner Navdeep Singh Virk was also part of this conspiracy and took the bribe of Rs 13 lakh, along with Chechi and Bhokan.
 
 Singh was sent to Bhondsi jail, after he was booked under section 13 of the Prevention of Corruption Act, and section 120B(criminal conspiracy) of the IPC, and spent 4 months in jail after being finally released in December 2015.
 
 Virk, Chechi and Bhokan all three denied the charges. Speaking to TOI, Virk, who is currently the police commissioner of Rohtak, said the allegations are “false and baseless”. He said the case was registered against Singh and his wife. “There were evidences against him and he was chargesheeted,” said Virk. 
 
 Bhokan denied having talked to Singh about any of this or accepting bribes. 
 
 
