
World over, we are fighting to drive home the point of gender equality. Closer home, each one of us is doing our bit to ensure a space with no gender biases. Apart from the need to fight for equal rights, it is equally important to have a violence-free environment. To ensure that violence against women is curtailed, Abasaheb Garware College has introduced a bizarre rule of segregating girls and boys. The college has created ‘Her Space’ which is exclusively for girls where they can spend time freely.
 
 Muktaja Mathkari, Principal, Abasaheb Garware College justified this move by saying, “We live in a patriarchal society where men are ruling most of the spaces. We wanted to change that and create a space only for girls where they can roam around freely with no fear of being stalked or molested.” But is this a practical solution? Mathkari explains, “The place is also close to the Counselling Cell where the girls can go to if they need help.”
 
 
  
 If this move wasn’t enough, S P College which already boasts of an exclusive   Garden also has a separate parking space for girls. Dilip Seth, principal, S P College said, “The separate garden has been there for years and the parking too. We feel there is a need to segregate. Having said that, we have cultural activities in the college premises which encourage boys and girls to participate on the same platform.”
 
 
 Purva Bhojane, an arts student said, “There is no logic in having separate spaces for boys and girls. It will take years before gender equality becomes a norm. Having separate spaces is not bringing us closer to this cause.”
 Some girls at SP College feel that it is important to give them their space, but segregation will not resolve anything. Nikhil Mokal, another art student from the college said, “Girls have the right to own a place and if the college authorities are giving the space exclusively to them, they should enjoy it.There are also places on SP College’s campus, where girls and boys can interact and spend time together; so setting up separate spaces isn’t a means to isolate them.”
 
 
  
 
 Maithili Shelar, an arts student from Abasaheb Garware College said, “We hardly spend time in the parking lot, so a separate parking space is really not required. The rule is quite bizarre.” Shivani Gupte another student, added, “Such rules, where girls and boys are segregated, may only create more of a ‘divide’ 
 between the two.” 
 
 
 College authorities cite ‘security concerns’ to justify the need for these separate places. But students are of the opinion that having separate spaces does not translate into additional security.
 Students believe that there are various committees as per the University Grant Commission’s guidelines to address such issues. “Committees like anti-ragging and anti-sexual harassment cells, are specifically created to address such issues. Students should be encouraged to lodge a formal complaint in case of harassment,” said Sagar Kamble from SP College.
 
 Nirmal Alekar, a student from Abasaheb Garware College, added, “Creating a divide between boys and girls might create more discomfort among the sexes. Meeting helps us understand each other and respect each other’s space.”
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
