LUCKNOW: Barely 48 hours after the much hyped announcement of Samajwadi Party-Congress alliance in the state capital, candidates of both parties filed nominations from two assembly seats in Lucknow leading to confusion among the rank and file of the two parties and the people of the respective constituencies over the alliance candidates.

 SP chief   and   vice president   had addressed a joint press conference in Lucknow on Sunday to announce formally what was described as a “historic alliance”. Thereafter, the two leaders led a road show across the city with much fanfare. As per the seat sharing formula, SP will contest the   on 298 of the 403 seats and remaining 105 have gone to the Congress.
 
 But the seat-sharing formula went for a toss when Congress’s Maroof Khan filed his nomination papers from the same seat on Tuesday, the last day of filing nominations though SP minister and sitting MLA Ravidas Mehrotra had already filed his papers from Lucknow central constituency on Monday. A similar situation prevailed in Mohanlalganj assembly constituency of the state capital where SP’s Ambrish Pushkar and Harsh Vardhan Shah have filed their nominations as official candidates of the party.
 
 Returning officer for the Lucknow Central constituency D P Singh confirmed that both Ravidas Mehrotra and Maroof Khan have filed nominations as official candidates of SP and Congress party. “In such a situation, both will be declared candidates of the respective parties after due scrutiny of the documents," Singh said. 
 
 SP state chief Naresh Uttam Patel and Congress party's chief Satyadev Tripathi defended their respective candidates claiming they had filed their nominations in the knowledge and due permission of the party leadership. SP spokeperson and MLC Udaiveer Singh, who is seen as a key member of team Akhilesh, however, said top leaders of the two parties were in talks to resolve the issue. “We have come to know about such instances and we will work it out soon,” he said.
 
 “SP chief Akhilesh Yadav had declared me party candidate and I was given Form B (Party’s authorisation) which I have duly submitted along with my nomination,” said Ravidas Mehrotra, adding, “There is no ambiquity at our end and I will contest the elections.” he said. Congress candidate from the same seat Maroof Khan said he had received a call from UPCC president Raj Babbar and Azad asking him to file his nomination. “Only the party high command can tell what they have decided with their SP counterparts,” Maroof said. 
 
 In Mohanlalganj assembly seat, Ambrish Pushkar and Harsh Vardhan have filed their nominations as SP and Congress candidates. Pushkar claimed that he was the authorised SP candidate from Mohanlalganj assembly seat while Harsh Vardhan claimed to be the Congress candidate. Confirming that the two have filed their candidatures as authorised candidates of the two parties, returning officer of the Mohanlalganj assembly constituency Santosh Kumar Singh said the nomination can be withdrawn before February 3.
 
 SP chief Akhilesh Yadav and Congress vice president Rahul Gandhi had addressed a joint press conference in Lucknow on Sunday to announce formally what was described as a "historic alliance". Thereafter, the two leaders led a road show across the city with much fanfare. As per the seat sharing formula, SP will contest polls on 298 of the 403 seats and remaining 105 have gone to the Congress. 
 
