Ludhiana: City residents have been hit by acute shortage of LPG cylinders. The supply was initially hit as a gas pipeline passing through Gujarat was damaged. The problem aggravated as violence rocked the region following the conviction of Dera Sacha Sauda head Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh in two rape cases.

 As a result, customers now have to wait for almost 20 days to get a refill, which used to take 2 days earlier. 
 
 Those dealing in supplying LPG cylinders said it would take them a few months to normalize supply.
 
 A senior official of a government-owned undertaking said thousands of subscribers in city had to suffer as the pipeline in Gujarat was shut down following some damage last month. He added that later they had to shut down the bottling plant for three days during dera violence.
 
 The official said it has caused a huge backlog. He said they are trying to clear the backlog in the coming days.
 
 A gas delivery boy on Pakhowal road area said on Friday, he delivered cylinders to those customers who had booked them on August 24. He added that as the backlog is huge, it will take them months to attain normal supply.Chavi Kumar, accompanying the gas delivery boy, said on September 15, they were yet to get stock meant for August 28.
 
 Meanwhile, the shortage of cylinders has upset lives of residents.
 
 “I booked gas cylinder in the last week of August, but till date, I have not got the delivery of the same. Earlier, they had given me a date (September 12) for delivery, but now they say they will deliver the same by September 17. Normally they would deliver the cylinders in 2 to 3 days, but since 3rd week of August, they have delayed the process,” said Surjeet Singh of BRS Nagar.
 
 “Normally our cylinder lasts for 20-25 days. We have two cylinders. One of the cylinders is already empty, and we fear even the second might finish anytime soon. If we don’t get a refill soon, I don’t know what we will eat,” said Jaspreet Kaur, a homemaker. She said senior officials of PSUs should ask LPG gas suppliers to expedite the supply.
 
 
