PATNA: The conviction of a man by a POCSO (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act) court in Patna on Monday also underlined the strange ways of functioning of the state’s Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) in Patna.
 
  The court had to deliver the judgment without a forensic test report as part of the evidence as the FSL allegedly failed to deliver the test report even after four years.
  
  The case pertained to the gang rape and murder of a 14-year-old. The girl’s semi-naked body was recovered from an open field at   village under the   police station area in Patna district on the morning of September 10, 2013. Autopsy revealed the girl, reported missing a day earlier, had been gang-raped before being murdered.
  
  Police later arrested 32-year-old Chandan from the village in connection with the crime. Her cellphone, sold by Chandan to co-villager Sooraj Kumar for Rs 400, was also recovered by police.
  
  “Chandan confessed to police that he along with friend Ramavatar Yadav repeatedly raped the girl and later strangled her,” prosecution counsel   said, adding Ramavatar was yet to be arrested.
  
  According to Prasad, police sent Chandan’s semen sample and the girl’s ‘salwar’ to the FSL with a request to match the semen with its traces found on the ‘salwar’. “Almost four years have elapsed, but the FSL is yet to give its report to police,” the counsel said, adding the forensic report would have made it easier for the prosecution to secure conviction in the case.
  
  Case IO (investigating officer)   deposed in the POCSO court that the FSL report was yet to be received. Even without it, however, the prosecution managed to prove Chandan guilty. He was awarded imprisonment until death by the court. “The sentence of imprisonment until death is also a rare one,” Prasad said.
  
  Meanwhile, FSL director   said he would not comment without knowing the details of the case. “Policemen sometimes misplace forensic reports and blame it on the laboratory,” he said and added, in response to a question, the FSL takes 15 to 30 days’ time to send its report in such a case.
