GAYA:   is no more. But the sensitive soul will remain engraved for ever in the memories of Gayaites. The veteran actor spent several weeks in the town in 1993 in connection with the shooting of the national award winning film ‘Patang’ with  ,   and   as co-actors. Om played the gangster leading the gang of wagon breakers called ‘Jhilkatwa’ in local parlance.
 
  Appalled by the all-pervading filth in Gaya town and the resultant high breed mosquitoes, Om Puri said he felt like picking the broom and sweeping the Gaya streets. Picking up the thread, a Hindi daily also wrote a long editorial on Gaya’s pitiable sanitary condition. That the municipal authorities remained unmoved is another story.
  
  Om’s remark made during his Gaya stay trivializing politics and trashing politicians irked fellow actor   no end. During a chat with TOI, Om Puri had said he did not intend to join politics as he has not become ‘apahij’ (invalid).
  
  Though the remark on politics was made in half jest and Shatrughan Sinha was not the intended target, Bihari Babu felt very offended and the tension showed during the shooting itself. True to his words, Om did never show any inclination for politics. The outspoken actor, in any case, was not a political material.
  
  A keen learner, Om, during his Gaya stay, made every effort to pick up the Magahi accent and copied the manners of local villagers. Taking tips from writer-producer Sanjay Sahay’s driver Shamim, the actor freely mixed with his fans.
  
  Paying tributes to Om, Sanjay Sahay recalled that all through the last more than two decades, the veteran actor maintained personal relations. Sahay last talked to Om Puri on Wednesday. The actor was at his Khandala farm house that day.
  
  One of the trustees of ‘Renaissance Cultural Centre’, Om Puri visited Gaya several times after the film’s shooting. Once he took his second mother-in-law to Gaya for sightseeing cum pilgrimage. On another occasion, he was here to participate in a cultural event organized at Renaissance.
