GHAZIPUR: Government staff members stand up with folded hands to greet an elderly woman as she walks into booth number 169 under Jakhanian assembly constituency to cast vote. 93-year-old Rasoolan Bi, resident of Dullahpur village, is a well-known figure in eastern UP. Wife of Param Vir Chakra awardee  ,   is a strong-headed woman who doesn’t mind taking on politicians. Her strong Bhojpuri dialect, however, is better deciphered by Jamil Alam, her grandson.

 Around 1pm on Wednesday, Rasoolan stepped out of her house to vote at Dhampur government school which has been named after her husband. While Tarn Taran, the Punjab district where her husband made the supreme sacrifice at the age of 32, destroying Pakistani tanks in the 1965 war has progressed to address urban issues, back in Hamid’s hometown basic civic facilities are missing.
 
 “A lot of funds have been approved to develop our village. But local leaders are totally incompetent. People from a lot of developed countries have spent time in our house to understand how Veer Abdul Hamid managed to destroy Patton tanks. Union ministry (present and prevous) have also facilitated us a lot of times. But we have to struggle to get basic amenities in this ancestral village,” said Rasoolan as she crosses the ‘khadanja’ (brick road) covered with sewage water as there is no drainage system.
 
 Her village Dullahpur had been adopted by Union minister of railways (state) and Ghazipur MP Manoj Sinha under Sansad Adarsh Gram Yojana. The family’s complaints are ordinary but relevant. “74 solar lights were approved for our village but a survey of the area will show that less than 20 lights. Remaining have been installed in schools, colleges and homes of local politicians regardless of their affiliations (Congress, BJP, SP or BSP),” shared Jamil (28), who works at Varansasi railway station as travel ticket examiner.
 
 The family speaks highly about Shivpal Yadav, the SP leader who approved a Rs 65 lakh hospital project and improved condition of roads. “But that happened with personal intervention and not due to efforts of the sitting SP MLA,” added Jamil.
 
 There are a lot of complaints about Subba Ram, the SP MLA elected in 2012 and this time Akhilesh Yadav gave ticket to Gareeb. BSP’s Sanjiv Kumar and BJP supported candidate Triveni Ram (SBSP candidate) are fighting it out in Jakhania, a declared seat.
 
 Rasoolan said, “Four SP MLAs represented Ghazipur as ministers in Vidhan Sabha (Kailash Yadav, Om Prakash Singh, Shadab Fatima and Vijay Mishra). The district has seven seats out of which six were won by SP.” A lot of people are angry with the way Ghazipur had been neglected in the past five years.
 
 
