NEW DELHI: The   on Tuesday held controversial liquor baron   guilty of contempt of court for not honestly disclosing all his assets and diverting $40 million to overseas accounts of his family members in violation of the court’s order.

 A bench of Justices A K Goel and U U Lalit directed Mallya, who left for the UK to dodge criminal proceedings against him for not refunding bank loans worth over Rs 9,000 crore, to personally appear before the court on July 10 when it would decide the quantum of punishment to be awarded to him.
 
 Mallya is not likely to abide by the order to appear before it as he would be arrested by government agencies the moment he lands in the country, but the apex court’s verdict convicting him of contempt would strengthen India’s case in a United Kingdom court to get him extradited.
 
 The order against   came a day after the court held that loan defaulters deserved to be dealt with an iron hand and it can serve to reinforce the message. The court agreed with the contention of a consortium of 17 banks that the flamboyant businessman did not make a disclosure of his assets to the Supreme Court.
 
 The banks which have lent money to Mallya said he intentionally kept the court in dark about $40 million he received in February last year from British liquor major Diageo for stepping down as chairman and MD of United Spirits Ltd.
 
 The bench said it had found Mallya guilty on both counts and dismissed his plea that he did not violate the court’s order on disclosure of assets.
 
 Attorney General  , appearing for the banks, had pleaded the court to take strong action against Mallya for taking judicial proceedings “for a ride” by making false disclosure. “He has not made a honest disclosure regarding $40 million. We don’t know how to get back the money but majesty of court is very important and he must abide by the court’s order,”   had said.
 
 Mallya’s counsel, senior advocate C S Vaidyanathan, had strongly opposed any action against him and alleged that the businessman was being unnecessarily targeted by the government despite attaching properties worth over Rs 10,000 crore. He said Mallya was not in a position to refund the money.
 
 “There is no violation of the court order... I was not asked to provide all transactions, so details about transferring $40 million was not there. It is shocking that the SC is trying to proceed against him (Mallya). He is being made a poster boy of default,” Vaidyanathan said.
 
