THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: If no publicity is bad publicity,   has hit the bull's eye. India's single biggest   could never have become today's talking point unless it displayed its rough patches from day one after its merger with  .The writing on the wall is clear; SBI's new rules and regulations are comfortable precedents for other banks to follow. 

 When would they start following `big brother', is only a matter of time.
 
 Senior SBI officials said the new regulations were introduced by the bank after a detailed customer behaviour study.
 
 “As per our studies, the average monthly cash transaction of SB account holder is only three to five times. The penalty on shortage of minimum balance in SB account was there before. Like every other institution, bank has to focus on improving its equity ratio.The idea is to set best practices for a better banking expe better banking experience,“ said former SBT chief general manager S Adikesavan, who currently serves as SBI's chief general manager in Hyderabad.
 
 However, independent banking and financial experts prefer to call SBI's `raw move' as the fallout of the economic policy followed by the Centre with RBI support. The restrictions on customers to minimize the number of cash transactions ­ both over the counter and ATMs ­ are the direct fall out of the Centre's policy towards increasing digital transactions.
 
 “It's directly linked with economic reforms and the demonetisation policy. States like Kerala may be able to improve the percentage of digital transactions up to 50% in the near future. But, India is not Kerala. In Arunachal Pradesh, debitcredit cards are not even accepted. The service element should be retained in banking sector. It's nothing short of cheating when you call for inclusive banking on one hand and fleece customers with the other. The anti-people moves should be resisted. At present, such resist ance against unscientific interventions do not reach the masses,“ said Bank Employees Federation of  .
 
 “What banks are now asking the customers to pay is the price fixed by third-party agencies companies for providing software and support services to banks. They are serving the interest of the agencies they rely on to run their business. The changes announced by SBI will soon find followers,“ he added.
 
 Competition Commission of India can be approached against the restrictive practices followed by some banks. That would be one of the best legal ways to challenge the restrictions imposed by SBI, said a senior banking official on condition of anonymity. Many in the field of economics and banking sector feel that apart from creating an 
 uneasiness among citizens by creating an increasingly restrictive banking environment, the limits on transactions and insistence for prohibitively high minimum balance in accounts would repel a large chunk of rural and semiurban customers from the banking system.
 
 “This cannot be accepted. It's a conspiracy against the public. It has the potential to foil the fruits of nationalization of banks. Too much restrictions would prompt people to choose money lenders and local banks,“ warned economist and former chairperson of state public expenditure committee, Mary George.
 
 She felt that the monitoring policy committee, set up by the former UPA government, has reduced the Reserve Bank to an agency with no strength to take decisions on the basis of scientific assessments.
 
 “Half of the members in the committee are government nominees. Hence, the strength of RBI in objectively responding to politically-loaded monitory policies is very less compared to the past.Unless the tendency to follow restrictive policies are curbed at the beginning, it would ruin all the hard-earned virtues in the banking sector,“ she added.
 
