The entire state is almost up in arms about the   issue, and the musician community, too, is no different. With the highlight being on Tamil Nadu over the last couple of weeks, these musicians have made some quirky, timely and interesting compositions, which are all about celebrating the Tamil pride. The lyrics, and in some cases, the visuals, too, focus on the beauty of Tamil Nadu, the rich bounty of her land, the plentiful rice fields, the temple towns, and in a few of them, the ancient tradition of jallikattu, where bulls are treated with reverence and respect. And what better time to release these videos, than on the occasion of Pongal? Here are a few songs which have been on social media playlists over the last few days, and are slowly gaining popularity'

 
 
 
 
 The Tamizh Thai Vaazhthu is an anthem that is usually sung in an assembly, or before the start of a lesson in Tamil. Giving the ancient song a contemporary twist, are the boys from Indosoul, who collaborated with director Karthik Charan for Tamizhanange. The video captures not just the beauty of the state, but also the simplicity and beauty of the spirit of its people, too.
 
 
 
 
 
 A short teaser of the song is out so far, and from the looks of it, this one is all set to make an impact. The song, as such, is available to listen online. It received a rousing opening, with a steady build up into the chorus. The video, according to Santhosh Narayanan, was recorded with some fantastic musicians from Thiruvannamalai, Chennai, Trichy, and other parts of Tamil Nadu. The video, too, naturally explores some unseen parts of the land, and has a short segment on jallikattu as well.
 
 
 
 
 
 In a campaign conceived by city-based activist Nityanand Jayaraman, the video's main focus is on the encroachments by Kamarajar Port and the rampant fly ash pollution in the area. Set to Carnatic music, it features Carnatic vocalist TM Krishna sitting by the banks of the Ennore Creek, singing, in order to remind everyone that saving the 'poromboke land' (referring to land reserved for communities to share) is everyone's responsibility.
 
 
 
 
 
 Released at a time when the jallikattu debate was at its peak, the song has no great video to boot, it is a simple lyric video. But the thought behind the song, according to Arunraja Kamaraj, was to invoke the state's emotions. Calling upon the Tamil pride of all those in the states, the song, Arunraja explains why jallikattu should not be banned. Interestingly, the team also decided that all the revenue that will be made from the song will be distributed to the farmers.
 
 
 
 
 
 Calling jallikattu thennaatu veeram (south Indian pride) is Yuvan Shankar Raja's composition titled Jallikattu, for the film Santhanathevan, which stars actors Arya and Sathya and director Ameer in lead roles. The lyric video is simple, but the message, timed perfectly, and powerful. The film itself seems to be pro-jallikattu, as the first look poster which was released recently, shows Arya as a bull-tamer. The film is set to go on floors sometime this month.
 
 
 
 
 
 Hip Hop Tamizha, has always been vocal about his support for jallikattu, and Takkaru Takkaru was released last year, during Pongal. But the song has now more views under its belt, thanks to the ongoing debate about the issue. The video touches upon the so-called decline of Tamil culture, and how the corporate goons are out to ban the sport for their own personal gains. The music in itself, packs a punch, too'in classic Adhi style. Adhi also publicly said that his song was not baseless, but conceptualized and composed after a great deal of field research, which went on for a period of over 
 six months. 
 
