NAGPUR: Chartered accountants reading the fine print of the budget said it will now not be possible to dodge tax by claiming interest outgo on one’s additional house properties as the deduction has been capped at Rs 2 lakh.

 Tax on a notional rent is levied on a house property other than self-occupied. If the property was purchased on loan the owner could also claim actual interest paid towards the debt as deduction from tax liability.
 
 Here is an example. If the notional rent is pegged at Rs 1 lakh a year and the interest outgo is Rs 5 lakh, the house-owner can claim rental loss of Rs 4 lakh. This could also be set-off against overall tax liability. “So if the person had a tax liability of Rs 8 lakh calculated on income from all sources, Rs 4 lakh of rental loss could be further deducted from the amount,” said  , the vice-chairman of ICAI’s Nagpur branch. Earlier an unlimited amount could be claimed as interest.
 
 “The notional rent is calculated on estimates of a fair value in the locality. But in any case the rental income is much less than interest payable on the loan leaving a margin. This was one of the favourite modes of reducing tax liability,” said  , the branch’s chairman. 
 
 The point was also raised by Kapil Bahri during a meet on budget reaction organized by ICAI. 
 
 The budget has also allowed a breather for builders. The tax on notional rent for a builders unsold units will be charged only a year after the issuance of completion certificate. “From last year even vacant flats of a builder attracted notional rental tax. Now a respite for a year has been given but still the move is too harsh,” said Jotwani.
 
 “Moves on slashing tax rate to 5% from 10% for income up to Rs 5 lakh and reducing the tenure for calculating long-term capital gains will benefit the taxpayer, ” said  , a chartered accountant.
 
 There is already no tax till income worth Rs 2.5 lakh a year. “With the rate being cut to 5%, those earning up to Rs 3.5 lakh can end up paying nil tax if exemptions on account of investments are also considered,” said a chartered accountant.
 
 “The reduction in income tax rates in the second slab will result in more savings. Even the capping of cash transactions at Rs 3 lakh is a good move by the government and will promote cashless means of payment,” said Naveen Bhede, a shop owner.
 
