BENGALURU: The barren, rocky, uneven ground near GKW Layout in   near Vijayanagar,  , may be called  , but not a single piece of play equipment is in sight. Despite construction debris, mounds of sand and gravel littering it, children play here, because this is the only playground in Govindarajanagar assembly constituency. 

 Residents say the   (BGS) Ground -- popularly known as New Public School Ground -- in MC Layout is the only safe, open ground where children can play football and cricket. But that is a good 3-4km from GKW Layout. “BGS Ground is in Govindarajanagar, there is not a single large playground in Vijayanagar which is the biggest area in this assembly segment,” said B Veeresha, an RTI activist and member of Vijayanagar Nagarika Vedike, an RWA.
 
 “While some play equipment has been installed inside parks, there is no proper place where children can play sports. With the pace of urbanization in this part of the city, there is no open space left that can be turned into a guarded safe playground for children in Vijayanagar, Hosahalli, Attiguppe, MC Layout, RPC Layout and surroundings,” he added.
 
 The Sangolli Rayanna playground was earmarked as a playground in 2000, but work started only a few months ago, said T Ramu, general secretary of the Vedike. He said residents are praying that work goes on smoothly and doesn’t get stuck as is the case with many government projects. However, many old-timers here said a Sangolli Rayanna school first came up on this land that sits on the dead  , and later the open space was turned into a playground, which is not fenced.
 
 Dr Ramakrishna Gowda, an ENT specialist who has lived in Vijayanagar for over three decades says, “There are many schools in the area but the children have no place to play, so they play on the streets. Vehicles zoom through the roads, making this residential area unsafe.”
 
 Shakila S Shetty, a resident of Govindarajanagar and trustee of Vijaya Viveka Pratishthana, has similar concerns. “We grew up in villages, where we were used to open spaces and it was never a privilege. Homes, too, don’t have large attached gardens today. Children don’t have empty spaces where they can play and exercise, resulting in obesity and lifestyle diseases affecting them at a young age,” she added.
 
 SPORTS COMPLEX ON GROUND
 
 We will first build a fence around the ground, after which we will start work on upgrading this as a sports complex. The complex will include a gallery for spectators, an indoor badminton court, outdoor basketball court and kabaddi area.
 
 N Shanthakumari | Maruti Mandir ward councilor, former mayor
 
 Only a portion of the area will be used for the sports complex, the rest will be left as an empty playground where children can play whatever sport they choose to. Work will be completed in 12-18 months.
 
 BBMP executive engineer, Govindarajnagar
 
