LUDHIANA: A cloth trader allegedly killed his   by hanging her with fan and then ended his life in a similar fashion at his house in Mohalla Mahanta on Saturday.

 The deceased were identified as 42-year-old Mukesh Kumar Singla, who had his shop near Gurdwara Singh Sabha, and his 14-year-old daughter Palak, who studied at a school for special children on   road.
 
 Police officials said Mukesh Kumar had two children –– Palak and  , 12. They added that his wife Manju Singla worked as teacher in a school in Ghalib Kalan.
 
 Cops said Mukesh loved his daughter intensely and was mentally disturbed because of her unstable behavior. They added that on Saturday, after his wife and son left, he remained at home.
 
 Police officials said at 12.30pm, Mukesh hung his daughter with a rope with a fan in the balcony outside the room on the first floor of his house. They added later Mukesh went inside his room and hanged himself with the ceiling fan.
 
 Cops said after his wife and son returned from respective schools, they were shocked to see Mukesh and Palak hanging. They added that after that they called tenants living on the ground floor of their house and brought down the bodies.
 
 Cops from city police station and deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Kawaldeep Singh Bajwa reached the spot and started a probe into the matter.
 
 Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Ludhiana Rural Surjeet Singh said Mukesh was worried about his daughter’s future as she was not mentally fit. He added that as per family members, he was under depression because of mental problem of his daughter and was taking medicine for it as well.
 
 The officer said their autopsy will be conducted by a board of doctors at the civil hospital. He added that inquest proceedings under Section 174 of CrPC has been initiated into the matter.
 
 Deepak Kumar, brother of Mukesh, said they are yet to know as to why his brother took such an extreme step and claimed that he seemed to be normal till Friday. A pall of gloom descended on the family.
 
 Police officials said on Saturday, Palak had a holiday in her school.
 
