NEW DELHI: The Sahara group could lose its marquee Plaza Hotel in New York along with a string of valuable real estate in several Indian cities with the Supreme Court on Tuesday asking it to deposit Rs 5,000 crore of the Rs 14,000 crore outstanding by April 17. 

 As the SC asked the group to pay up, it was surprised when a little-known Texas enterprise, MG Capital LLC, promised to buy the hotel for over Rs 4,000 crore. Referring to the sudden offer from the US-based realtor which had little business activity credited to it in the last one year, a bench of Justices Dipak Misra, Ranjan Gogoi and A K Sikri said, “In a case of this nature (Sahara case), surprises are bound to spring up.” 
 
 When the counsel for the realtor said it was ready to pay $550 million to buy Sahara’s share in Plaza Hotel, the bench asked him to convert it into Indian currency and state the amount. The counsel said it would be over Rs 4,000 crore.
 
 At this, senior advocate Kapil Sibal said Sahara knew nothing about this realtor and asked the court to be careful in dealing with it. When the bench asked the realtor to deposit Rs 2,000 crore with the SC registry to show its bona fide, its counsel said it was ready to deposit Rs 100 crore. The bench then directed the firm incorporated in Texas to deposit Rs 750 crore by April 10 with a warning that if it backed out after depositing the money, the advance would be forfeited. 
 
 The Sahara group also told the SC that it will attempt to sell 13 prime properties across India, including townships and land, to raise over Rs 5,000 crore by April 17. The SC has been struggling since August 2012 to make the group cough up Rs 25,000 crore and deposit it with market regulator Sebi. The group has deposited around Rs 11,000 crore so far. The bench refused to give 22 more months to Sahara, as requested by Sibal, to pay up the remaining Rs 14,000 crore. 
 
 As per the SC’s February 6 order, the group submitted a list of properties in two sets, one detailing unencumbered assets and the other the encumbered ones. The SC did not take the encumbered properties into account and also declined permission to Sahara to sell its stake worth Rs 510 crore in UK-based Force India F1 team company. 
 
 The SC also issued notice to Ghaziabad Development Authority which had acquired a large tract of land owned by Sahara group for which it was to receive compensation estimated by the group at Rs 1,112 crore. The SC asked the officer concerned of GDA to be present in court on April 10 for payment of the compensation amount with interest.
 
