MUMBAI: In the middle of Dharavi’s 90-ft road, you encounter the election office of Ram Ashish Jaiswal, a dalit businessman from Mayawati’s Bahujan Samaj Party. He manufactures cleaning brushes and is contesting his first election.

 What’s drawing curious onlookers to his office though are the Bhojpuri songs being belted out from loudspeakers hooked onto his cellphone. “There is a large population, of UP migrants here and they enjoy these,” he says.
 
 Among the largest slums in Asia, Dharavi is a melting pot of communities with a large Hindu, Muslim and dalit population. It also among Mumbai’s Tamil hubs. Many who live here are migrants from UP, Bihar and West Bengal working in its leather and garment factories. Besides Dharavi has cottage industries, which manufacture pottery, brushes and brooms and farsan. And a major trade in scrap.
 
 For many years, Dharavi has been a   bastion though the   also has a strong base here. Its MP is Shiv Sena’s Rahul Shewale and its MLA is the Congress’s Varsha Gaekwad. Among its six sitting corporators, two are from the Congress and one each from the Shiv Sena, Samajwadi Party and RPI. It also has an Independent corporator. Despite being an economic powerhouse, Dharavi remains an overgrown slum teeming with shanties, filthy gutters and barely enough toilets. In the newly carved ward number 184 which has drawn as many as 20 candidates, gutters and drinking water remain prime issues. As we wait to speak to residents, a two-year old slips into the gutter outside his shanty. He is pulled out, covered in slime till the waist.
 
 “Daily, children fall into the gutters. I have fallen in twice. When we queue up for drinking water at the common taps in the morning, the gutters fill up and we have to stand in a pool of reeking sewage,” says elderly Sajida Begum. As for the long-pending Dharavi redevelopment project floated a decade ago to rehouse the residents in small flats, there is only cynicism. “Now when candidates talk about it, no one takes them seriously,” says local resident Murugan Nadar.
 
 Congress candidate Babbu Khan, a wealthy businessman in the garment trade has tailored his pitch to suit the constituency. “I want to improve the gutters, the local dispensary and the municipal school,” he says. The entry of the Muslim party MIM in these civic elections could cut into Congress votes but Khan is dismissive. “They have barely opened an office here,” he points out.
 
 The lingering shadow of demonetisation still hangs over the many small businesses in Dharavi. “We have lost our entire income. We don’t even feel like voting in this election,” says a distraught Rehana Shaikh whose husband works as a loader at market yards.
 
 The Shiv Sena agrees that notebandi is an issue but doesn’t think its candidates including, Rajendra Suryawanshi from ward 184, will be hit, with the   and Sena contesting separately. 
 
 “Of course notebandi is an issue. People’s livelihoods have been hit. But the Shiv Sena was among the first to criticize the move so people will not link us to this decision,” says local Shiv Sena shakha pramukh Kiran Kale. “It is the BJP which will suffer but in any case, it does not have a presence in Dharavi,” he says combatively.
 
 
