MADURAI: Methalodai in Ramanathapuram district is a picturesque hamlet with a population of 1,330 and 480 families. Ramanad is known to be parched and drought-prone almost through the year. But, the green cover in the village is striking. Villagers nursed saplings and today, after nearly a decade, most of the fully-grown trees have begun to blossom and bear fruits. Felling trees is not permitted here and neither is littering.

 Most of these efforts are credited to N Muthammal, the three-time panchayat president who worked hard to make it a model village with people’s participation. The message of cleanliness is usually initiated through the children of the village, who attend the local panchayat high school. The panchayat comprises three small hamlets, and a total of 17 streets that are clean and well-maintained. Garbage bins are placed in many places and 95% of the homes have their own toilets that are clean.
 
 The panchayat is dotted with coconut groves and farmers have come forward to buy the wet waste that is collected by the sanitary worker. A tractor-load of wet garbage is sold for Rs 150, which goes into the panchayat fund. There are five small water bodies that are desilted and renovated by villagers.
 
 One of them with lotuses blooming through the year and located at the entrance of the village adds to its rustic charm. ``This year though, the water level in most of the tanks has begun to dip. But, we cleaned up a well and use the water in it for bathing purposes,” said Vasantha, a resident.
 
 The clean environment has attracted peacocks that are seen roaming around freely. ``Peacocks are considered sacred by us, and we have hundreds of these birds throughout the year in our village,’’ said Muthammal.
 
 A tasmac shop was moved out of the village. People who drink or smoke are counselled by a group of youngsters. They advise them about the detrimental effects of these habits. “People who get drunk, sometimes apologize to the villagers. No cigarettes are sold in the shops in this panchayat,” said Muthammal. Residents are happy and the good sign of this is that they have urged Muthammal to contest again for the post of panchayat president this year, assuring her their support.
 
 Vox Populi:
 
 A Duraisamy, village head and a retired   driver : ``Cleanliness is something that we have been able to achieve through the collective effort of the people and the panchayat administration, and water too is available because we renovated our water bodies.’’
 
 S Jaisurya, a plus two student: ``I am proud of my village and we too clean our village during holiday season. I and my friends clean the village and create awareness about plastics. Many of my friends like to visit my village’’.
 
 N Suresh, a cricket coach: ``We do a lot to make our village look clean and people too are willing to do so. It was not like this twenty years ago. We also create awareness about plastics, smoking and drinking." .
 
 Murugavalli: ``My relatives who live in other parts of the district always like to visit me because our village is comparatively cooler than other villages due to our green cover. We make the best jaggery and palm products.’’.
 
 
