NEW DELHI:   has been transferred 500 kms away from Jhansi jail to far-off Pilibhit.   was made to travel ten hours through the night from   to Deoria.   is already sweating it out in Banda jail, far from comfortable confines of Lucknow.
 
  It is ‘bure din’ for these dreaded gangsters of Uttar Pradesh and they are complaining. Ansari, for instance, has alleged a conspiracy behind his transfer from Lucknow, saying a Union Minister wants “to finish him off ”, even as Banda jail has cited inadequate security arrangements for housing Ansari.
  
  Ahmed has gone to high court saying he is being “harassed” by being transferred so far away from his home district of Allahabad where his cases are on, but HC has refused to give him relief. Bajrangi, who was once a shooter for Ansari, asked why his bête-noire gangster Brajesh Singh has not been transferred from Varanasi jail. “It is because Singh is an MLC from Varanasi and his nephew haw won as a BJP MLA,” Bajrangi’s family asked.
  
  Officials said the three gangsters are clearly feeling the heat as their new jails are far from their home towns and they are being denied facilities such as beds and home food. UP Principal Secretary (Home)   in an order on April 7 cited the transfers of these gangsters, and that of 50-odd more dreaded prisoners, to warn authorities.
  
  “These prisoners should be kept under strict supervision and no special facilities be provided to them. No mobile phone use should be permitted so that they cannot run criminal activities from jails,” the order stated.
  
  Panda has also warned that if the government learns of anything to the contrary, strict action will be taken. The flip side, however, is that jails in Pilibhit, Deoria or Banda do not have mobile phone jammers at present while the former jails of three gangsters had such facilities, prompting the Opposition to question the futility of the exercise.
  
  The ATS and STF units of   have been asked to mount surveillance on these jails to detect any mobile use. Three months ago, 12 of the 70 jails got jammers. Another 12 will get jammers in two months while seven jails are being fitted with solar-power back-up for jammers .
