 has a reputation of being quiet and reserved, so it did come as a pleasant surprise when we meet him at a Delhi hotel that the actor was all willing to talk and open up. Akshaye had been away from the silver screen for four years before he returned with 'Dhishoom' last year. With the Sridevi-starrer Mom releasing today and another release lined up later this year, the actor seems to be fast-tracking his comeback, so it’s no wonder he is excited about his 'second innings'. Excerpts from his conversation with DT that ranges from his hiatus from acting and the return, consciously taking on smaller roles, and what makes Delhi a good shooting location:

 
 A significant portion of Mom was shot in Delhi, including   and the bylanes of Chandni Chowk. The city might have developed a reputation of being not shooting-friendly but Akshaye says his experience was completely pleasant here. He tells us, "I shot in some very interesting locations; I don't exactly remember the names right now, but interesting, nonetheless. I have found Delhi so much more beautiful than Mumbai. South and central Delhi, especially, are just so beautiful - the roads, the trees, the buildings, the history. Of course, every city has its own character, but I enjoy coming to Delhi. I enjoyed shooting here too."
 
 
 His return to acting has been with films which have an ensemble cast and his role is small but significant, which the actor says is a conscious choice. "After taking such a long break, I wanted to start with slightly smaller roles. I was looking for roles that are meaningful, important, impactful, but small – just for the first 3-4 films, just to find my footing. This role in Mom was in the area that I was looking at in terms of the size of part," he says. The one thing that wasn’t a conscious choice was his four-year break from films, which he admits, wasn't easy to deal with. He says, “I had some personal reasons that didn’t allow me to work. I don't think anyone who loves their work as much as I do will take a break, especially of this length, intentionally."
 
 
 During the hiatus, was there ever the fear of not being able to get back and be in front of the camera again? "That's why I wanted to start with smaller roles, just to test myself," he replies, "Just to see if I was rusty. I needed that reaffirmation to myself. The whole tragedy of being an actor is that you are quite dependant on other people. It’s the only art form that I can think of that is so collaborative in nature that I am nothing without a good writer, good cinematographer, good director and good co-stars. To need so many people to just be able to do my job is frightening. I think that is also part of the insecurity that is part and parcel of being an actor. The fear of that being taken away from you is constant."
 
  
 The film with which Akshaye tasted success for the first time was JP Dutta's 'Border', which recently completed 20 years and the cast and crew of the film met for a grand celebration of the occasion. However, Akshaye did not attend that event as he didn’t want to be part of a celebration so soon after the death of his father, Vinod Khanna. He says, "It's life; it's part and parcel of life. I didn't want to be part of a celebration as I was in mourning." But Akshaye is quick to differentiate between the 20-year-celebration for 'Border' and the promotions for Mom. "This is my work and the differentiation is very clear," he says, "Losing a parent is always a terrible thing for anybody. It's no more or no less for me. The impact it has on a child is tremendous. But getting back to work has nothing to do with it. There needs to be a demarcation between personal and professional lives."
 
 
  
  
 
 
