JAIPUR: The   cell of health department on Wednesday busted an interstate sex determination and illegal abortion racket active in Rajasthan and Agra. A woman doctor, a nurse and two middlemen were arrested by the cell. A sonography machine and Rs 30,000 were also been seized by the team. 

 In an inter-state decoy operation, officials from the Pre-conception and Pre-Natal Diagnostic Techniques Cell (PCPNDT) cell raided Vidya Nursing Home located in the Itimad-ud-daula area of the Agra. A pregnant woman acting a decoy was taken by an agent to the nursing home for a sex determination test. 
 
 “The accused were identified as Dr Vidhya Gupta(55), Manorama(44) and two middlemen including Ramkishor Yadav(44) and Prabhu Dayal,” said a senior officer of PCPNDT cell of the department. 
 
 Officials said that the accused 
 
 doctor was into the illegal determination at the nursing home for more than a decade. “Prior to opening the facility, she performed sex determination tests (SDTs) in her home. For SDTs and illegal abortions, she charged Rs 60,000, sharing 50% of the money between nurse Manorma and two of her agents,” said a senior officer of PCPNDT cell in Rajasthan.
 
 The matter came to light after Ram Kishore, a resident of Itimad-ud-daula and compounder at a private hospital in Rajasthan, and agent Prabhu Dayal of   district in Rajasthan were arrested. “Both Kishore and Dayal used to bring patients from Dholpur to Agra for the sex determination,” said an officer. 
 
 The accused doctor and her aid were seized under the Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act, 1971 and Pre-Conception and Pre-Natal Diagnostic Techniques (PCPNDT) Act, 1994.
 
 Both Dr Gupta and Manorma will be presented at the Bharatpur magistrate court on Thursday. Police have seized the ultrasound equipment of the nursing home.
 
 Appropriate authority (PCPNDT), Naveen Jain said, “This is the fifth racket busted by the state PCPNDT cell in Uttar Pradesh. A total of 13 interstate   cases have been detected.”
 
