BHOPAL: The state capital has earned the distinction of being the only city in Madhya Pradesh with five national flags flying at a height of 100ft and above with chief minister   inaugurating the fifth Tricolor, fixed on a 100ft long pole.

 With this, national flag with over 100ft height are now flying at the Secretariat, Tatya Tope Stadium, Equestrian Academy, shooting academy and Raja Bhoj airport.
 
 The 20ft long and 30ft wide national flag will fly over the airport 24x7. Director airport Flight Lt Akashdeep Mathur said that the power back-up has been arranged to keep it illuminated.
 
 The maintenance of the flag post will be taken care of by the Airports Authority of India. This was established by the Ministry of Civil Aviation, Government of India.
 
 In his address, chief minister Chouhan said that both Indore and Bhopal airports should be given the status of international airports taking into account the expansion of business in Madhya Pradesh and the large number of people travelling abroad from the two cities. “Discussion will be held on this issue with the Centre,” said Chouhan.
 
 Chouhan said, “There should be good air connectivity in Madhya Pradesh in light of the business and industrial expansion in the state. The state government will extend full support for this. The Tricolor is our pride. Countless people have laid down their lives for the Tricolor. This will always inspire people towards devotion for the country.”
 
 CM Chouhan laid the foundation of a 1 MW capacity solar energy plant to be completed in the next three months. This is a joint effort of the Airports Authority of India and  .
 
 About 12 lakh unit electricity will be produced from this plant every year. About Rs 1 crore will be saved every year in the electricity bill of  . The total cost of the project will be recovered in less than five years.
 
 Chairman, Airports Authority of India, Guruprasad Mohapatra said that Bhopal will soon have four new flights. He said airlines should show interest in Bhopal as it is a good Centre. A dog show was also organised, on the occasion. Bhopal airport general manager Rakesh Bahri and others were present.
 
