AURANGABAD: The Dr   (BAMU) continues to have two websites, leaving students and other stakeholders confused on many occasions. 

 The official information of the university can be found both on bamu.ac.in and bamua.digitaluniversity.ac, making it the only state university in Maharashtra to have such a dubious kind of working.
 
 Educational activists have demanded probe into the multiple websites for the A grade university stating that it needs to be examined whether university has been incurring financial losses towards operation and maintenance of the two websites.
 
 One of the two websites in operation in the name of BAMU largely carries information related to examination and results. It has been found that websites of other state universities host such information on link dedicated to examination section. 
 
 Savitribai Phule Pune University, for instance, has hosted online portal for examination related information and other vital details on home page of its official website in examination section. 
 
 Educational activist   demanded that the university should carry out a probe in the lapse and take stern action against those allowing this to happen. “Besides causing inconvenience to students, we feel it is a loss of public money. The entire matter needs to be probed,” he said.
 
 Saraf said they would also bring the matter to the notice of office of the Governor and the state government. 
 
 A student who did not wish to be named said the university administration should bring in a more organised approach in its functioning. “Discrete working is going to only serve elements having vested interests and not interests of students,” he alleged.
 
 When contacted, BAMU vice-chancellor B A Chopade said he had asked authorities concerned to look into matter and ensure operations through one single website. 
 
 “It is unacceptable as no university shares official information through multiple platforms. Corrective measures were already ordered and I will again ask the authorities concerned to the needful,” he said. 
 
 P V Jabde, officiating registrar of BAMU, said it would be ensured that university has only one official website. Necessary steps will be taken to remove existing anomalies, he said. 
 
 University Network and Information Centre (UNIC) director Sachin Deshmukh did not respond to calls and text message sent to him.
 
 Established on August 23, 1958, the BAMU, has jurisdiction over Aurangabad, Jalna, Beed and   districts. Students from these four districts along with other stakeholders access university websites for receiving updates and necessary information. 
 
