HYDERABAD: Warm-up matches generally don't have much of a buzz as the teams don't take it too seriously. It's more about getting used to the conditions and also trying to get into rhythm ahead of tougher battles. The two-day warm-up game at the Gymkhana from Sunday will not be much different for the visiting Bangladesh side, who are coming off a tough New Zealand tour, but for the   led India 'A' side, it's another chance to make a statement ahead of a lengthy season ahead.

 The importance of the occasion was not lost on Mukund, who has been recalled to the Test squad after 5-12 years in the wilderness. The Tamil Nadu southpaw knows that it won't be easy forcing his way into the playing XI but is keeping his fingers crossed. "A comeback is really difficult," he said after a practice session at the Gymkhana, here on Saturday.
 
 "I just want it to take it as another game. It is important that we stay focused. Although it is a warmup game for Bangladesh, it is an important match for many players. I'm really looking up to the challenge," the 27-year-old opener said summing up the mood in the team. For many youngsters, it's another opportunity to put the selectors on notice.
 
 Three members from the Indian Test squad have been included in the two-day game so that they get to know the opposition from close quarters. "Jayant (Yadav), (Hardik) Pandya and I are looking forward to this match. It is always good to play a warm-up game before the Test match. For me, it is a right preparation as after a long time, I am getting into a Test squad. If I get an opportunity, I will be very well prepared because I have already played against them once. It is an advantage for me. So I have to go and make best use of the opportunity," Mukund added.
 
 The new selection panel led by   has taken great pains to reward the players. "A lot of credit should go to the selectors as they have picked players who have done well in the Ranji Trophy. So players like   and   have got a look in. These matches are good incentive for all these players. And for players like me, getting a call up is rewarding," the skipper said.
 
 Coming to the game, Mukund said he was not really worried that they were up against a strong side, which has been playing good cricket in the last few years and are emerging out of the shadows of being a limited-overs team.
 
