ALLAHABAD/NOIDA: The Allahabad high court on Tuesday directed the CBI to probe the   ‘Ponzi scam’ in Noida in which around 40,000 people were allegedly cheated in the name of good returns on their investment.

 Webwork was the second company raising funds dubiously that was busted in Noida in February this year after Anubhav Mittal’s Ablaze Info, which highlighted how the Ponzi schemes were being replicated as digital marketing initiatives. Mittal, in particular, had a flourishing business with 6.5 lakh subscribers when Ablaze was busted.
 
 The court has asked the CBI to submit a progress report on its Webwork probe within a month. Webwork, it is alleged, launched a portal and invited investments from people through a massive campaign using a Bollywood star, promising good financial returns on the investment made in its schemes. The scale of the alleged fraud is said to be Rs 125 crore.
 
 The order by a division bench headed by Justice Ramesh Sinha came on a petition filed by Amit Kishore Jain.
 
 On its portal, the Webwork team had claimed that its scheme had been approved by Union consumer affairs ministry.
 
 Earlier, Jain had lodged an FIR in the case in the Noida Sector 20 police station. However, after being dissatisfied with the police investigation, he approached the high court, requesting it to hand over the investigation to CBI.
 
 Noida police have prepared a 6,000-page charge sheet against Anurag Garg and Sandesh Verma, directors of Webwork, for running the ‘Ponzi scam’. The two were arrested on February 17, when they had gone to meet the SSP. They have been in judicial custody since.
 
 Anil Shahi, SHO, Sector 20 police station, said, “The two directors are accused of cheating and forgery. We have prepared a 6,000-page charge sheet and sent it to senior officers for approval. We will file the chargesheet in court in a week.”
 
 The officer said the document was bulky because it focuses on various aspects of fraud and also contains a huge bunch of bank documents, statements of financial transactions, etc. “They had made Rs 252 crore from about 70 IDs of investors,” a police officer said.
 
 Garg, a resident of Crossings Republik in Ghaziabad, had done his BBA from a private college in Meerut and started Webwork with Verma on September 5, 2016. Verma, a resident of Lajpat Nagar, has a diploma programme in jewellery designing from a private institute in Gujarat. Garg and Verma also launched another company, Adds Book Marketing Pvt Ltd, on October 18, 2016.
 
 The revenue of Webwork Trade Links Pvt Ltd, founded with paid-up capital of Rs 1 lakh, increased to Rs 260 crore in just four months.
 
 
