Mumbai: Though chief minister Devendra Fadnavis assured temporary housing to the Ghatkopar crash victims on Thursday, Binita Ramchandani, whose parents lived on the fourth floor of the ill-fated building, said that by the end of Friday, they were yet to hear anything from the authorities.

 “We have decided to wait till Sunday and if still no accommodation is provided, we will decide on taking some action,” said Ramchandani, who has come from Hyderabad to help her parents who survived the crash.
 
 The government had made similar promises four years ago when a five-storey building in   collapsed, killing 11 persons. However, the survivors are still waiting for building reconstruction work to take off. Some of them stay on rent and some are living with their relatives.
 
 Amin Lakha, who lost five members of his family after Altaf Mansion in Mahim collapsed, said, “The incident rendered us homeless. We are living on rent like many other residents. One of the families is living with their daughter while two others had another house in the city. We didn’t get any government help to expedite the building reconstruction process. We are struggling for survival and get back our home.”
 
 Lakha said that politicians can ensure that victims get back their homes faster and help secure harsher punishment for culprits so that a deterrent is set. He said that in both the building crashes, in Mahim as well as Ghatkopar, illegal alterations to ground-floor commercial structures were the culprits. Lakha has shifted to Pune where his son is studying a dental course.
 
 Residents of Altaf mansion had alleged that a car showroom owner had made structural changes on the ground floor right up the basement of the building removing a central pillar, which led to the incident in June 2013.
 
 The government paid Rs 1 lakh compensation for each death but didn't help them expedite the process to appoint a developer for building reconstruction. Another Altaf Mansion resident, Iqbal Gandhi, who lost a relative and his help, said, “I am praying for strength for the Ghatkopar victims so that they can face the situation ahead and cope with their losses like we did. The Ghatkopar incident is a flashback for us. The government should rehabilitate victims of such building crashes immediately to minimize their suffering.” Iqbal’s family resided on the entire top floor of the building. He and his two sons were out at the time of the incident; his wife, who was at home, survived in the collapse.
 
 The residents claimed that they lost a year after the incident in a tenant and landlord dispute. Later, they did manage to appoint a builder for reconstruction and make additional floors to recover the expenses. But there has been no movement on the ground. The builder has promised to start work from August, said the residents.
 
  “We are not getting any rent from the builder. I have another house and so I am covered, but imagine the plight of those who do not have an alternative, especially the senior citizens,” added Iqbal.
 
 
