NEW DELHI: Sacked AAP minister  , who has been on an indefinite hunger strike, broke down while meditating at Raj Ghat on Friday. His wife comforted him as tears rolled down his cheeks. 

 The MLA from   constituency said he would continue his fast unless CM   divulged details of foreign trips made by some AAP functionaries. AAP has, in turn, accused him of following a script penned by BJP.
 
 “It is a fight between truth and lies. I came to seek motivation and strength from Bapu. Unless the truth comes out, I will continue my hunger strike,” he said outside Raj Ghat. “The people of Delhi are with me. I am determined.” 
 
 He also accused AAP functionaries of spreading lies. “The lie on EVMs, the lie of photo, lie on the attacker. I catch your lies within five minutes,” he tweeted. 
 
 In another tweet, he said: “Sir Arvind Kejriwal...the lies will not help you.”
 
 Mishra said he would visit the Hanuman temple in   before making a “major disclosure on Sunday against Kejriwal and AAP”. “I will seek strength from Lord Hanuman because I will make some big disclosures,” he said.
 
 Meanwhile, Mishra has been advised hospitalisation by a team of doctors who examined him. “His blood sugar level has dropped to 81 mg/dL and intravenous fluids need to be started immediately. His pulse is low. He is going into dehydration because of poor salt intake. We have thus advised hospitalisation,” said Dr Javed Salam of   who examined him.
 
 His wife said he refused to go to hospital. “The path he has chosen is full of difficulties but he will boldly face them all,” she said.
 
 In another development, the MLA’s mother, Annapurna Mishra, has written a letter to Kejriwal, accusing him of spreading lies regarding her son. In the letter that was posted on Twitter by Mishra, she said: “How many lies, Arvind? How many lies after all?”
 
 On Thursday, several AAP leaders had tweeted a picture in which Delhi BJP president Manoj Tiwari and Mishra were seen in one frame.
 
 His mother, claimed that the picture was clicked at an event to felicitate AAP leader Kumar Vishwas’ father and was attended by Kejriwal and all his ministers.
 
 The former mayor said Kejriwal had pursued her to convince Mishra to join politics despite the latter not being interested. In the letter, she alleged that Kejriwal’s men had started calling her “corrupt” while he has maintained a stoic silence over the issue.
 
 Mishra’s mother claimed that she was the one who had organised mohalla sabha in 2007 and reminded Kejriwal that he had attended it and it was even mentioned in his book ‘Swaraj’.
 
 
