LUCKNOW: As the battle be tween Akhilesh Yadav and Mu layam Singh Yadav is on to get hold of the party and its symbol, workers are not using `Ummeed ki cycle' coined by Akhilesh himself that brought the SP to power in 2012. The SP is also avoiding tall claims as it did in 2007 elections through the slogan `UP mei hai dum, kyonki jurm yahan hai kum' (UP is strong because the incidence of crime is low)“ to counter opposition charge of poor law and order during Mulayam's rule (2004-2007). The slogan didn't cut much ice with voters then and the SP lost power to the BSP. The BSP, this time, has added slogans focusing on “inclusive politics“ and “positives“ of Mayawati rule (200712), while hitting at the law and order situation during Akhikesh's tenure. Besides using the 2007 slogan `Chhad Gundan Ki Chhati par , Button Daba Hathi Par', new slogans of   include `Betiyon Ko Muskurane Do, Behenji Ko Aane Do', `Behenji ko Aane Do, Pradesh Ko Gunde-Mafia Se Bachane Ko', `Gaon-Gaon Ko Shahar Banane Do, Behen Ji Ko Aane Do' and `Darr Se Nahi, Haq Se Vote Do, Beimano Ko Chot Do'. The one which hits out at all the parties is ­ `Kamal, Cycle, Panja Hoga Kinare, UP Chalega Hathi Ke Sahare'.
 
 The BJP's campaign is gaining momentum with tried gaining momentum with tried and tested slogans -a mix of religion, development and Modi with nationalist veneer -Jai Shree Ram, Sabka Saath Sabka Vikas, Bharat Mata Kee Jai, Vande Matram (borrowed from the Indian National Movement), Ek desh mein Do Vidhan, Nahin Cha lenge (hitting at the Muslim Personal Law) and `Do Baten Kabhi Na Bhool, Narendra Modi Aur Kamal Kal Phool'.
 
 Since the party has not pro jected any CM face so far, it is focusing on the collective leadership promising change and good governance -`Saath Ayeye-Pariwartan Layeye (Come together and get the change)', `Pariwartan layee, Kamal Khilayeye (Get change, let the lotus bloom)', `Jan Jan ka sankalp parivartan ek vikalp (Change in only option among masses)', `Na Ekai, Na Dahai, Poora Do Tihai' (It's time to get absolute majority instead of getting single or double figure assembly seats)“ and `Gali Gali Macha Hai Shor , Janta Chali Bhajapa Ki Ore (Everyone knows, people are with the BJP)'.
 
 Slogans used by Modi during the 2014 elections have been rephrased as well ­ `Abki Baar BJP Sarkar' and `Abki Baar 300 Ke Paar“. Some leaders are also using slogan “bhay-mukt samaj', highlighting “good governance“ during Kalyan Singh's rule between 1991 and 92. In East UP, supporters of   are chanting -`Purvanchal Me Rehna Hoga, To Yogi-Yogi Kehna Hoga (If you want to live in Eastern Uttar Pradesh, You will have to say Yogi-Yogi).' Projecting Shiela Dikshit as its CM face, the Congress launched its campaign last September with slogan `27 Saal, UP Behaal', hitting out at opposition parties that ruled UP for 27 years after the party was ousted in 1989.   started his recent Kisan Yatra with slogan `Karza Maaf, Bijli Bill Half, MSP Ka Karo Hisaab' which targeted the Modi government.
 
 Post demonitization, the party came out with new slogans, hitting out at Modi, like ` Gareeb on Se Kheecho , Ameeron Ko Seechon' and “Suit-Boot Kee Sarkar, Rulaye Gareebon Ko Bar-Bar“.
 
