PUNE: The eleven-member committee constituted by the government and headed by Lieutenant General DB Shekatkar (retd) for enhancement of combat capabilities of   has recommended raising a   (on the lines IAS and IPS) to bring synergy between officers of the Armed Forces and their  . The aim is also to reduce the delay in procurement process.

 Defence minister Manohar Parrikar had constituted the committee in May 2016. It submitted its 550-page report to the government a few months ago. The ministry is in the process of evaluating the report on the basis of which changes will take place in the Armed Forces.
 
 Shekatkar told TOI: “In our report we have recommended that the government raise a separate cadre for the ministry of defence, which can work with the ministry right from the induction stage. After working for certain years, they will understand the nitty-gritty of the Armed Forces’ requirements. This will serve two purposes: One, it will bring synergy between officers of the Armed Forces and their civilian counterparts. And second, it will certainly reduce the time taken for defence procurement.”
 
 The committee has also recommended that top-ranked officers of the Armed Forces should work with their civilian counterparts at the MoD. At present, bureaucrats are posted at the MoD and department of defence production on deputation or are transferred from other ministries.
 
 Explaining the need far a separate cadre, Shekatkar said: “The bureaucrats are not specialists in defence. After spending the initial year in understanding the issues and military matters and another to get well-versed with various weapon systems and intricacies of the ministry, they start working on their next assignment in another ministry. As a result, they hesitate in taking decisions on purchase of systems worth millions of dollars, as they fear they may be accused of bungling or wrong doing. Ultimately, the force concerned does not get the weapon or system on time. To avoid all these complexities, we have recommended a separate cadre.”
 
 Defence sources said it is imperative to refine the defence acquisition process by cutting down on delays occurring at the level of bureaucracy, which represents a key layer between the MoD and the Armed Forces.
 
 Welcoming the recommendation, former Army Chief General VP Malik told TOI over phone: “The bureaucrats should work alongside the Armed Forces to understand their requirements well. The present system is not advisable as it does not help the forces.” Another crucial aspect is that the finances are completely controlled by bureaucrats. Services chiefs are only advisors in case of procurement. 
 
 An army officer, who has served as a military secretary, said: “The Armed Forces have suffered a lot because of the present system as bureaucrats without military background and knowledge continue running the procedure. If other ministries can be managed by their respective boards, why can’t MoD run on the same pattern. The MoD should be exclusively manned by a separate cadre with military officers, particularly in defence production and defence finance.”
 
 Defence sources said it is imperative to modernise the Armed Forces by inducting latest equipment and weapon systems, particularly in the present volatile situation.
 
