PANAJI: Goa Suraksha Manch ( ) on Saturday declared Ketan Bhatikar as the alliance’s new candidate from Panaji assembly constituency. 

 It replaced its candidate Krishnaraj Sukerkar alias Raju, who fell ill and was shifted to Mumbai for a medical checkup on Monday after GSM announcecd his candidature. 
 
 While Sukerkar was Goa   prant North Goa sangchalak, the new candidate is a physiotherapist.
 
 Speaking to reporters, GSM president Anand Shirodkar said that Sukerkar has been changed as he had health issues, putting to rest speculations that Sukerkar may not contest the election as he and defence minister Manohar Parrikar are old friends.
 
 “Sukerkar has still not said that he is not contesting from Panaji, but GSM has decided change its Panaji candidate,” Shirodkar said, adding that Sukerkar will be the election campaign chief for Panaji constituency.
 
 GSM president said that the   has not pressurized Sukerkar or his family to opt out for the race. Sukerkar has not betrayed the GSM, he added.
 
 The decision to change the candidate in Panaji was taken in consultation with Sukerkar and Bhatikar has its own vote bank in the capital city, Shirodkar said.
 
 After the announcement of his candidature, Bhatikar said that Sukerkar told me that we will work together to win the election. “Physiotherapy tells me to relive pain. In politics people give pain. I will see that pain is relived in Panaji,” Bhatikar said when he was asked how physiotherapy will help him in elections.
 
 Asked who he saw as his main opponent in Panaji for the February 4 elections, Bhatikar said that he has come to Panaji to win hearts and the election. “Even if Parrikar tries to do a surgical strike and U-turns, we will take the straight path and win the elections,” he added.
 
 He also said that he would require too much effort to convince the people of Panaji to vote for him as the electorate of Panaji knows who has betrayed them and who has criminal record. Taking dig at Parrikar, Bhatikar said, “Those who were saying English, why mai bhas jai they are now saying mai bhas, why English jai.”
 
