VADODARA: A shocking case of   students being subjected to a   has come to light in the city-based  .

 A   allegedly forced two class II girls to unbutton their shirts in front of their classmates as a punishment for not doing their homework on Saturday. The incident came to light when parents of the girls rushed to the school in Laxmipura and demanded strict action against the teacher Dharmishta Rathod.
 
 Parents of the victimized girl Khushboo (name changed) noticed that she was strangely keeping very quite after coming from school. She also told them that she did not want go to the school anymore. After much coaxing, the girl finally revealed the trauma to her parents. She also said that another girl too was asked to open the buttons of her shirt for not completing homework.
 
 After, knowing the truth, Khushboo's mother along with parents of the other girls reached the school on Wednesday morning and created ruckus.
 
 “It was very shocking for us when she narrated the incident. Humiliating a child in front of the entire class like this is very traumatizing,“ said the girl's father, who is a priest. He added that the girls were not asked to keep their shirts unbuttoned for the entire period but for some time.
 
 “Whether it is for one hour or one minute, how can the teacher behave with such small girls in this manner?,“ he added.
 
 The family, however, decided to not lodge a police complaint against the teacher and school administration.
 
 Following parents' complaint, the school administration immediately sought Rathod's resignation.
 
 Khushboo's father claimed that when his wife confronted the teacher, she admitted that she had asked to unbutton the shirts but had not really done it. She only wanted to set an example in the class and has also done this in the past too with other students, he said.
 
 Defending Rathod's actions school principal Vasanti Patel said, “The teacher may have said but she told me that she had not unbuttoned the shirts. Later, today when I went on rounds, other students of the girls' class told me, on asking, that the teacher had not said anything about unbuttoning.“
 
 The parents are now planning to shift her to another school after the academic year ends.
 
 This Gujarati medium coeducation school is run by a charitable trust of Dalsukh Prajapati, a Congress leader who joined BJP on Wednesday .
 
 When contacted, Prajapati told TOI: “I was in   the entire day but I have learnt that the principal has accepted resignation of the teacher. I will visit the school on Thursday and take up the issue seriously ,“ said Prajapati.
 
 
 
 
