NEW DELHI: Metro has definitely given public transport in the city a big push. However, it has also added to chaotic traffic around several stations, making easy   a distant dream. Even safety and security have become an issue at these stations overrun by vendors, paratransits like autorickshaws and Gramin Sewas, and randomly parked vehicles dropping or picking up commuters. The good news is Metro is trying to address these road blocks.

 In the first round, two stations—Chhatarpur and Kashmere Gate—will be redesigned, keeping multi-modal integration in mind. “The   project is at the tendering stage, while work on the   station will be implemented along with the phase III construction,” said   Rail Corporation (DMRC) spokesman Anuj Dayal. Once the project is awarded, the redesign is expected to take around six months.
 
 The idea behind the redesign is simple—demarcate areas for each activity, utilise the area judiciously and ensure an easily accessible station. “Multi-modal integration is mandatory to provide last-mile connectivity, an integral part of all public transport,” said a senior official involved with the project. “A safe, easy and efficient transit system requires developing infrastructure for at least 1km around each station,” she added.
 
 For instance, at Chhatarpur, Metro found that all activities were concentrated to a few points around the station while other areas were underutilised. “Due to no proper facilities for paratransit facilities, there is a lot of confusion and people arriving on Metro get disoriented,” said Dayal. To reach the bus stop, commuters have to wade through autos parked haphazardly outside the station.
 
 To get around this, a main pedestrian concourse will be built for seamless movement. The left side of the main entrance will have all paratransit facilities and pickup and drop points. This, said Dayal, will keep commuters off the main road. “On the right side, a public plaza will be built for people who want to sit and take some time off,” said Dayal. “The plan is to make the area around the station pedestrian friendly and a great place to hang out.” 
 
 The Kashmere Gate station, on the other hand, is part of a transport hub, adjacent to the interstate bus terminus (ISBT) as well as DTC stands. The station is expected to have a daily ridership of around 5.8 lakh once phase III becomes operational. “Apart from catering to daily commuters, the station has to handle a large number of first-time passengers using ISBT,” said an official.
 
 As the station is located at an important intersection connecting east Delhi to the rest of the city and Civil Lines to Old Delhi, pedestrian crossing is an issue due to huge volume of traffic. “The proposal provides tabletop spaces for pedestrians as well as designated spots for paratransit lanes, bus bays and a vendor zone in a way that these are near the entry/exit points but do not block them,” said Dayal.
 
 Following the lieutenant governor’s approval, Delhi Metro is also planning to redesign Dilshad Garden and Shahdara, said Dayal. Fourteen more congested stations will also undergo the same exercise. 
 
 
