NEW DELHI: Delhi has been put on high alert following inputs that   might try to target the capital to “avenge” the  . Patrolling in and around crowded markets and   has been stepped up. 

 On Thursday evening, vehicle checks were intensified with barricades put up every 500 metres in south Delhi. There was some panic at Patel Nagar Metro station after an abandoned bag with some electronic equipment was recovered.
 
 Anti-terror units of states, including Delhi, have been asked to act on all “actionable intelligence”, said sources. The special cell has intensified checking of guesthouses near Jama Masjid and nearby Old Delhi areas. Sleuths are keeping tab on populated areas in north Delhi where there is considerable presence of Rohingya Muslim refugees from Myanmar. Railway police and staff have been asked to maintain vigil at stations and near tracks. 
 
 Thursday morning saw frenetic activity over inputs of presence of two “terror suspects” near Delhi. However, things were calmer by afternoon with the arrest of two arms suppliers who were allegedly in touch with the Khurasan module of IS.
 
 Police are keeping a close watch on vehicles entering the city from western UP. A strict vigil is being kept at toll plazas around Delhi. Special surveillance is being mounted at temples. Traffic cops have been asked to keep a check on non-destined vehicles.
 
 Patrolling in crowded markets like Chandni Chowk and Paharganj has been intensified with police actively interacting with informers for clues. 
 
 Vigil at important installations, railway stations and airport has been stepped up and all police stations have been asked to increase patrolling in their areas. Embassies, bus terminals and Metro stations have been put under surveillance. On Thursday and Friday, senior police officers held meetings with officials of intelligence agencies to discuss security details. LG Anil Baijal also reviewed security preparedness.
 
 Central and north Delhi have been put under a heavy security blanket. Surveillance has been beefed up around Chanakyapuri, Connaught Place, India Gate and areas under the Parliament Street police station. Police are also ensuring that CCTV cameras at all places with high footfall are functional. 
 
