BHOPAL: Post GST regime, prices of food served at the Food Plaza at Habibganj and   railway stations have gone up by 7% and 13%. However, the quality of food remains a matter of concern for passengers.

 Most frequent passengers whom TOI talked said they have no issues in paying more, provided the quality of food is good. In the present shape hike in price is not justified, they said.
 
 Food Plaza at Habibganj is non- AC while that at Bhopal station is air-conditioned leading to the increase.
 
 “I am a frequent traveller, and often get down at the Bhopal railway station for food at IRCTC canteen,” said  , a private firm employee. He said he prefers having food from the restaurants outside the railway station premises as the prices are less and quality is better.
 
 Pooja Mittal, an engineering student said that the hike of Rs 13 per plate of vegetarian food is too high given the poor quality of food served by the railways. For non-vegetarians, burden on pocket would be Rs 24 per plate. “Let them first improve the quality of food on train. How can they increase the price without improving quality,” said Mittal.
 
 Old prices of veg thali was Rs 85.71 on which 5% VAT was charged and the net sale price was Rs 90, which has now risen to Rs 96 at Habibganj and Rs 103 at Bhopal railway station.
 
 The Habibganj food plaza is a non-AC food store due to which the   and CGST applied on food products is 6% separately. While the same food product is taxed at 13% at Bhopal as it is air-conditioned.
 
 Not only thali, but prices of basic snacks and tea have also gone up in the same proportion. The non-veg thali at Bhopal railway station which earlier cost Rs 200 has increased to Rs 225 at Bhopal and Rs 213 at Habibganj railway station. 
 
 Coffee rates have also increased to Rs 23 per cup which was earlier Rs 20 while price of tea has increased to Rs 17 from Rs 15.
 
 Kishan Singh Bhadoria, IRCTC food plaza supervisor at Bhopal railway station, said, “We get around 5,000 orders per day out of which around 2,000 are from our daily customers. After the GST regime was rolled out, the number of customers has gone down at least by 20%.” 
 
 “It is obvious that when prices are increased, passengers would expect better quality of food. I would request the IRCTC to improve quality of food at the station so that passengers should not be dissatisfied,” said Pradeep Singh, Bhopal station manager.
 
 BOX
 
 GST pang: Billing software yet to be updated
 
 Bhopal: A week after the roll out of GST, the food plaza at Habibganj railway station was still charging passengers at pre-GST rates as the employees find the new system complex.
 
 “Our billing is not updated, and the company which has been entrusted with the task of creating the software has sought more time,” said Kishan Singh Bhadoria, supervisor adding that the plaza was incurring losses. He added that it would take another 15 days to get the new software.
 
 PHOTO QUOTES
 
  |Student
 
 Increase in price would hit customer base of IRCTC food joints. Quality of food has always been an issue with them. Hope that the railway minister also pays attention to food quality also.
 
 Tarang Shah | Insurance Agent
 
 There no match between the price and food quality at the railways. Now with increase in prices, it is expected that the railways would improve hygiene and serve better food.
 
 Surendra Singh | Businessman
 
 The prices should be such that all sections of the people can afford the food. It is always expected that the government must ensure good quality of food to passengers at low prices.
 
 PRATAP TOMAR, PRIVATE FIRM EMPLOYEE: It has been seen that the quality of food is very poor in trains. I would not mind paying more provided the quality of food is good. The government should not have increased the prices of food, as it would impact every section, even the poor.
 
 
