CHENNAI: When writer-critic   delivered a speech about Ashokamitran, who passed away at the age of 86 last month, it turned out to be a revelation of sorts.   is celebrated for his writings and justly so, but he had many other facets to his versatile personality.

 Ashokamitran would travel across Chennai on his bicycle to discover new aspects of the city. “It was on his bicycle that Ashokamitran covered each nook and corner of the city. The innumerable rides helped him get a clear idea about the city and its people,” said Gnani, who had a long association with Ashokamitran.
 
 “Bicycles were cheaper than buses. Since Ashokamitran’s financial situation was not very good, he found the bicycle an ideal choice. The interesting part is that he never complained of any difficulties. He rather enjoyed it,” said Gnani who was speaking on “Ashokamitran: Life and Works” as part of the   Trust’s monthly lecture in the city on Saturday.
 
 Ashokamitran was always well-dressed during such bicycle rides, said Gnani. “He would tuck in his shirt every time. The full sleeves were buttoned at the wrist and the shirt and trousers were always impeccably ironed.”
 
 Gnani and Ashokamitran worked together as part of the Pareeksha Theatre Group. Not many are aware that Ashokamitran was an actor too. “He acted in my plays many times. He had a great passion for acting. Whatever roles he performed, he took it seriously,” said Gnani, after showing a video clip of his play, “Naarkaalikaarar”, staged by Pareeksha Theatre Group in 1979, in which Ashokamitran played an important role.
 
 Recollecting an incident, he said Ashokamitran treated everyone as an equal. “My son Manush Nandan made two short films based on Ashokamitran's short stories at the age of 11. The age difference between the two was 53 years. But, still, Ashokamitran changed the end of the short story on a request from the boy,” he said.
 
 Even though photography was a costly pastime in those days, Ashokamitran pursued it with diligence. “Ashokamitran was very fond of photography. He managed to buy a camera but, even after that, buying rolls of film was not easy on the wallet. So, he took photographs only on rare occasions. I am lucky that it was Ashokamitran who took photographs on my wedding day,” he said.
 
