KOLKATA: In a city that has of late got the “indifferent“ tag, two strangers stepped forward to help actor   as well as the police immediately after the high-speed accident early on April 29. One of them, an Ola driver, may even help cops with the crucial piece of the jigsaw puzzle though the police have refused to name him.

 The driver was waiting to pick up a passenger near Lake Mall. “In his rush to get model Sonika Singh Chauhan to hospital, Vikram tried to flag down a couple of autos but none of them responded,“ said  , who works at the makeshift  , a couple of feet from Lake Mall. Chandan, along with another eatery worker, Shankar, was among the first to run to the accident spot.The second good Samaritan to help out the cops was a vegetable vendor, who happened to pass by the spot a while later.
 
 The police said Shankar spotted two cops on patrol duty entering an   nearby and alerted them. By then, the Ola driver--at the risk of a complaint from the passenger, who reserved the ride--cancelled the trip and decided to take Sonika to hospital. He reportedly suggested they go to Sis humangal but Vikram didn't listen. Those at the site said Vikram wanted to take Sonika to   but the Ola driver convinced him to go to Ruby, which was nearer.
 
 The Ola driver then returned to the site within 15 minutes. By then, senior officers from Tollygunge police station had begun arriving at the spot.The driver directed them to Ruby and told them Sonika's condition was critical. “He was visibly shaken. There was blood on the car seat,“ said Chandan.After the driver alerted them, the cops realized Sonika's belongings were inside the car. The purse was brought out and two mobiles found in it. There was also some cash and two expensive cigarette packets inside.
 
 Exhausted, the driver said he was feeling unwell and wan ted to return home; but this was after he recorded his statement with police and left his name and contact number with them.
 
 Around 5am, the tow van arrived. Just as it was about to take the sedan away, a call came from the hospital that Vikram's gym bag and phone were still inside. But the police apparently refused to enter the car as there was blood all over and the vehicle was in ruins. A vegetable vendor passing by offered help: he slid inside the mangled sedan and retrieved Vikram's phone. Between 5.25am and 5.30am, the police made an outgoing call and received two incoming ones on Vikram's mobile.
 
