AHMEDABAD: Online admissions to medical, dental, and   will begin from Wednesday. Forms for online registration will be distributed through a private bank from Wednesday, and registrations will be open from Thursday.

 The state government has decided that admissions to medical and dental courses — to be conducted on the basis of National Eligibility Cum Entrance Test scores — will be centralized even for management and NRI quotas. The entire procedure will be carried out online as it was for engineering courses.
 
 The PIN distribution will begin from Wednesday and will continue till July 18. Registrations will close on July 19. Officials of the Admission Committee for Professional Undergraduate Medical Educational Courses (ACPUMEC) said that students will be required to have their documents verified at any of the 32 centres across the state.
 
 The officials said that students wanting admission on local seats for   and Ahmedabad and Surat Medical Colleges will be required to get a certificate from the dean of their colleges.
 
 The ACPUMEC said that students who were told to report personally will no longer need to come Gandhinagar. They will have to mark their choices online.
 
 The merit for medical and paramedical courses will be declared on July 23. In all, 14,556 seats are available — 3,630 for medical, 1,155 for dental, 1,850 for homoeopathy, and 1,850 for ayurveda. The remaining seats are in paramedical professional courses.
 
 The government has said that admissions to medical, dental, ayurveda, homeopathy, and naturopathy courses will be filled through a single merit list prepared with NEET marks. The government has made it clear that students who have appeared for class XII examination in Gujarat will be eligible for admission. Such students should have completed their class X examination too from Gujarat.
 
 Students seeking admission on the 10% NRI quota will have to submit a demand draft of Rs 10,000 after submitting application online. The DD will have to submitted in person at the office of ACPUMEC at the   college.
 
 33k diploma-to-degree seats may remain vacant
 
 Registration for admission to diploma to degree courses has come to an end and total 14,275 students have showed interest for available 48,000 seats. According to officials of the Admission Committee for Professional Courses (ACPC), more than 33,000 seats are likely to remain vacant. The officials said that 16,079 PINs were sold but only 14,275 students registered for the admission. \
 
