KALYAN: In yet another incident involving  , nearly five to six women ganged up and allegedly intimidated and assaulted a 54year-old co-passenger following a seat row near Kalyan railway station on Wednesday morning. The victim, a bank employee, has nail injury marks and her clothes were torn as well.

 Stating it wasn't a serious case, police registered a noncognisable offence against the unidentified accused. In an NC case, police do not have the right to arrest the accused. The victim, Charumati Velhad, is a resident of Tilak Nagar in Dombivli.Employed with a bank since the past 27 years, Velhad is currently posted at the bank's CST branch.
 
 The victim said since she found it tough to board the local at Dombivli railway station due to heavy rush, she usually took the down local to Kalyan and from there travelled by the same train to CST.
 
 On Wednesday , she boarded the train at 8.36am. “When the train reached Kalyan, some women commuters, in the age group of 25-30 years, objected to my boarding the Kalyan-bound train at Dombivli and asked me to get off.“ Velhad said when she refused to do so, the wom en started abusing and misbehaving with her. She further said, “They snatched my bag and asked me to stand, but when I refused to budge, they assaulted me and tore my clothes.“
 
 The assault stopped only after Velhad threatened to file a complaint. On reaching CST station, she approached the CST GRP who filed a noncognisable offence.
 
 According to Velhad, the same group of women had picked a fight with her on the seat issue a few days back too.
 
 When asked, senior inspector of CST GRP,   said, “As the victim did not suffer serious injuries, we registered an NC against the accused and have forwarded the case to Kalyan GRP for further probe.“
 
 Senior police inspector of the Kalyan GRP Dinkar Pingke said they would record the victim's statement again and take further action accordingly .
 
 Last Thursday , a video showing commuters assaulting another passenger over a seat had gone viral.
 
