Chandigarh: The police on Wednesday arrested three more members of a gang that used to dupe people by offering a cut to bank customers to deposit their “illicit money”, which used to be plain paper wrapped in a piece of cloth, for a fee.

 According to Sector 31 station house officer Jaswinder Kaur, “The accused used to target people from the lower segment of the society as they can be trapped easily on the promise of extra money.”
 
 The accused were identified as Aftab, Akil Banotia and Upender. The police recovered Rs 10,000 from them.
 
 On Monday, the police had arrested three persons who used to follow the same modus operandi to dupe gullible people. They were identified as Jitender Paswan, Ravinder Paswan and Simra Bilontiya.
 
 Deputy superintendent of police (south) Deepak Yadav said, “The accused hail from Bihar and have targeted people in Chandigarh and Zirakpur in the past. They had also tricked people in Delhi as well.
 
 The gang was under the police radar after an incident at Punjab National Bank’s Industrial Area Phase II branch last week.
 
 Dinesh Kumar, a driver from Ram Darbar, was duped of Rs 25,000 and his mobile phone. In his complaint, he had stated that two men had approached him and asked if they could use his account to adjust Rs 2 lakh “dirty money”. As they promised him a cut, he fell for it. They took him aside, collected his money, and passed him a bundle to hold, saying it was currency wrapped in a cloth, and then they borrowed his mobile phone to “make an urgent call”. His attention was on the bundle when the duo fled with his money and handset. When Dinesh opened the cloth, he found only a currency-sized wad of papers inside.
 
 THEY WERE DUPED
 
 May | SBI customer Bharat Yadav of Rs 10,000 cash near the Sector-30 branch
 
 April | Mohammad Vajir of Bapu Dham, of Rs 28,000 at a bank in Sector 20
 
 March 2016 | Sunil Mishra of Colony Number 4, of Rs 10,000 and mobile phone at a bank in Sector 28
 
 January 2016 | Depositor Mohammad Mustagi of Rs 50,000 at a bank in Sector 28 
 
 
