AHMEDABAD: With busting of an   and probing of its possible links with handlers of the Khorasan module which triggered a low intensity train blast in Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat DGP, P P Pandey, held an emergency meeting with senior ATS officials on Thursday afternoon. Ahmedabad police commissioner A K Singh and senior crime branch officials also attended the meeting.

  Though police officials claimed it to be a routine meeting by DGP Pandey, while he was on his way to Gandhinagar to attend the assembly session, sources said the DGP had come to the ATS office as the cops are on the verge of cracking the Rajkot timer bomb incident.
 
 “A live bomb, which could have claimed several lives was defused in the densely populated Khodiyarnagar area on 150-feet Ring Road in Rajkot about a month back. We have got some clues and suspect it to be terror act,” said a senior police official.
 
 “We are in contact with cops from other states, and will be able to apprehend the accused very soon,” he added.
 
 Sources said that Pandey also discussed the headway made in probing the ISIS module which was busted by Gujarat ATS about a fortnight ago. 
 
 “During interrogation of Waseem and Naeem Ramodiya, it came to light that during his stay in Ahmedabad, Waseem had come into contact with four other youths,” said an investigator. “We are questioning them to trace their links with ISIS, if they had any. Moreover we have also traced a youth from Maharashtra who was in regular touch with  ,” he added.
 
 According to sources, extortion and threat calls made by underworld don Ravi Pujari was also discussed during the meet. “Gujarat ATS and Ahmedabad city crime branch has been asked to trace suspected aides of Pujari hiding in Gujarat as well as in Maharashtra,” said a senior police official.
 
 “Over a period of about one year, Pujari has made more than 50 extortion calls, some which were made to Congress MLAs, including senior Congress MLA Shaktisinh Gohil. We have registered a complaint with regard to threat calls made to Gohil at city crime branch,” he added. 
 
 
 
 
 Gujarat ATS will seek further remand of ISIS suspects Waseem and Naeem Ramodiya when they are produced before the court on Friday. ATS sources said they still have to trace some suspicious contacts retrieved from the cellphones of the accused. “Moreover, we also have to analyze a lot of data recovered from their laptops,” said an ATS official. “Our teams have been dispatched to UP and MP following a low intensity blast triggered by ISIS suspects in a train. The handlers of the UP-MP module and the Gujarat module are suspected to be the same hence thorough investigation is to be done” he added.
 
 Central IB warning of ISIS terror strikes discussed
 
 After the low intensity blast in a train in MP, central agencies had issued a warning to five states including Gujarat, Maharasthra, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh. “The threat perception was discussed in the meeting with the DGP. We have put the state police on alert along with an advisory for extra vigil on the Gujarat coast,” said a senior police official.
 
