GURUGRAM:   returned to the Millennium City on Tuesday night when a 27-year-old Delhi man was gunned down by unidentified assailants in Sector 23A. 

 Police sources said the victim - Rahul Mann alias Rinku, a resident of Delhi's Alipur village - was a member of   gang and had several cases of murder and robbery against him. The needle of suspicion points towards the rival Nandu gang that had set up a   to lure him to the secluded spot.
 
 The crime took place around 11 pm. Cops said Rahul was called to the secluded spot in Sector 23A area by his "girlfriend". As soon as he reached the spot, the assailants who had been already waiting there opened fire at him. After getting five bullet shots in his chest, head, hip and stomach, he died on the spot.
 
 When cops reached the spot, Rahul's body was found lying on a kerbstone and his Santro parked on the road side. Police identified him on the basis of his driving licence. A birthday cake was also found in the car. 
 
 Rahul's father told cops his son had left home around 9 pm on Tuesday, saying he was going to Gurgaon for a friend's birthday party. "He borrowed one of his friend's Santro car and left for Gurgaon," his father said in his police complaint.
 
 This was corroborated by one of Rahul's friends who told cops that the victim went to Gurgaon to celebrate his girlfriend's birthday.
 
 "During questioning of some of the victim's friends, it has emerged that he had been in touch with a girl for the past one week through WhatsApp. Before leaving for Gurgaon, he told one of his friends that it was the birthday of his girlfriend. He also bought a cake for her and promised to return by midnight," a senior police officer said.
 
 "Rahul belonged to Rajesh Bawania gang. Bawania is lodged in Bhondsi jail. The victim was out on bail from Delhi's Rohini jail around two months ago and was working as a cab driver. We suspect the hand of rival Nandu gang behind the murder. We are trying to trace his so-called girlfriend," he added.
 
 On the basis of a complaint by Rahul's father  , an FIR has been filed under sections 302 (murder), 120-B (criminal conspiracy), 34 (common intention) of IPC and sections 25-54-59 of Arms Act at   police station.
 
 "Prima facie it seems that the victim was a member of Rajesh Bawania gang and was a criminal. It might be the result of gang war. Our teams are on the job and we hope to arrest the accused at the earliest. The angle of honey trap is also being investigated," said police commissioner Sandeep Khirwar.
 
