CHANDIGARH: While all students are enjoying studies with   beginning last week, students from the   sections (EWS) are yet to get admission. The reason continues to be the same as it was in December 2016 -non-issuance of income certificates. This is the first time such a problem has occurred in the city and has delayed admission under 25% quota for   .Since the education department had fixed April 7 as the last date for draw of lots for admission under the EWS quota, none of the schools has admitted students since the income certificates are yet to be issued to more than 50% of parents who have applied.

 Ravinder Kaur, a parent who had filed an application for the income certificate, told TOI that she had filed an application in this regard in midFebruary . The police and teh sildar came for verification but the certificate has not been received as yet. The education department stated that the delay was on part of the deputy commissioner's office since they have to issue income certifi cates. “We are waiting for issuance of EWS certificates as per directions of the home department. I think there is some procedural delay due to change in procedure of issuing income certificates,“ said direc tor school education  
 
 However, sources from the DC office said that it was the police that was not doing verification as was decided.
 
 Since the new academic session began, various schools have raised concerns with the education department.
 
 “The SDM offices had discontinued issuing income cer continued issuing income certificates for several months for internal administrative reasons. They restarted accepting applications for family income certificates at   in March but further complicated the procedure by insisting for double verifications.
 
  The entire process was botched up with the police officials refusing to carry out verifications of EWS applicants, and no family income certificates could be issued to eligible applicants for no fault on their part. We had requested the administration to accept self-declarations from EWS applicants this year, but since they failed to respond, hundreds of eligible EWS category students are out of school even though the session has already started. We are planning to approach the court soon,“ said Nitin Goyal, president, Chandigarh Parents' Association.
 
