NAGPUR:The state government will launch Mahawed — 2,065 automatic weather stations project — from the district on Sunday. The state’s agriculture department will get real time   in every 10 minutes from the project that to help in preventing from agriculture damage and also rise production.

 Chief minister   will launch the project by inaugurating the first of 2,065 automatic weather stations at village Dongargaon, 26km from here, in the district. Agriculture minister  , minister of state for agriculture Sadabhau Khot, guardian minister Chandrashekar Bawankule and others will be present.
 
 Principal secretary, agriculture department   told TOI the project will help the government in boosting the agriculture sector and also farmers of the state. “Government had executed the project on PPP model. Skymet Weather Services Limited has been appointed as PPP operator and will set up all 2,065 stations across the state. One of the stations has been erected and will be commissioned on Sunday at village Dongargaon. We expecting erection of remaining 2,064 stations by June 15,” he said.
 
 Kumar added Skymet will provide real time weather data in every 10 minutes to the agriculture department’s control room at Pune. “Department has proposed to develop advanced weather and crop advisory system at Pune. The data collected at the control room will help in research and advisory to the farmers. Department will alert farmers about heavy rainfall, pest attack weather conditions etc. Department has collected mobile numbers of farmers and will alert them by sending messages on their mobiles,” he said.
 
 Kumar also said the agriculture department saved Rs150 crore by developing the project on PPP model. “Department did not get satisfactory rates in tendering process. Therefore, project was switched over to PPP model. Skymet will erect 2,065 automatic weather stations from its own investment. Skymet will also operate and maintain the stations for seven years. Skymet has been given rights to sell the data from which it will recover the investment and maintenance cost. Thus the government developed the project without spending single penny,” he said.
 
 Kumar said agriculture department will run the project with the help of Indian Meteorological Department (IMD). “We are not having any experts in weather sector. Therefore, IMD will display the data online on its website. Agriculture department will give a link of the display on its website,” he said.
 
 Congress-NCP government had proposed the project in 2012. The project could not kick-off. Fadnavis announced the project in a programme held in the city on May 20, 2015. Fadnavis pursued the project and ensured its launch.
 
 There are 54 weather stations across the state and run by the IMD. Now, the stations will increase to a great extent.
 
 
