Ponni, a Bharatanatyam dancer who hails from Tuticorin, has performed as Lord Vishnu, Hanuman, Narasimha, Andal and many more, but the journey has not been easy for the 39-year-old transgender. From completing a three-year diploma course in Bharatanatyam at the Government Music School in   to finishing her MA in Bharatanatyam at  . “The mudras in Bharatanatyam always fascinated me and I wanted to learn them. The first time I approached a teacher to learn dance, she rejected me. I was given all kinds of reasons — ‘You need to bring your parents’, ‘We will get back to you’, etc. They even asked me if I wanted to learn so that I can be part of the movie industry. But then the principal of an independent school supported me and I started learning dance when I was in my 8th standard,” shares the dancer, who currently lives in Ambattur. 

 After she completed her diploma and arangetram, things started looking up when an NGO approached Ponni to teach Bharatanatyam to 20 transgender women in Theni. “I was very scared because I didn’t know how they would treat me and if they will like me. But they were so warm and welcoming. That is when I realised that I wanted to spread the art not just among transgenders but even among people who belong to the lower strata,” she says. With big dreams in her eyes, she moved to Chennai, and lived with Anjali, a transwoman from Vyasarpadi who she had met at the Theni workshop. “It’s almost next to impossible for a transwoman to find a house on rent. House owners tend to increase the rent — they almost double it,” laments the dancer. 
 
 Still, she adds that she was very determined to start teaching dance and get more exposure. But there were more roadblocks that Ponni had to cross, as it took time for people to accept a transwoman teaching Bharatanatyam. Her first two students were, in fact, her neighbours. “We printed pamphlets and distributed them. Seeing them, people would come home, but they’d look at me and walk away. They even had a problem with my dark complexion. I was at the brink of defeat, and it was at that time that I met Thiru Sivakumar, a dance teacher who also runs an NGO. I started learning dance from him and he is the reason why I am invited to sabhas and temple performances today. He pushed me to perform at different venues and also got me opportunities to perform at temples,” smiles Ponni, who is currently in Erode for a performance. She regularly takes weekend classes at Erode. 
 After starting with four kids, Ponni currently has 32 kids learning dance from her at Ambattur. She has successfully started her own dance school called  . “I once performed at a Vinayakar temple in our kuppam and that is when people really started appreciating my dancing skills. A lot of our neighbours started sending their kids for dance class from then on. I don’t charge any fee. They pay my rent instead or give something as a token of love. People who refused to look at me earlier started calling me to perform. The media has also helped and promoted me well,” she says. 
 
 For her performances, Ponni takes up either a mythological story or a social issue. She has touched upon subjects like dowry harassment, female feticide, poverty, women empowerment and eradicating illiteracy. From the right jewellery, salangai, to accompanying artist, Ponni says she takes care of each and everything personally. “I buy the jewellery for all the kids when we have a performance. The violinist, mridangist and nattuvangam artiste perform free at our performances. The idea is to spread the art and not see any profits out of it. I have had a tough journey and I am doing my bit to make this place a brighter and nicer place,” she signs off. 
 
 
