Amritsar: The row over the Nanakshahi calendar does not seem to end. This became evident when on the occasion of Sikhs’ New Year, community members in Europe rejected the Pal Singh Purewal-authored Nanakshahi calendar, also known as the original one, which was implemented by the SGPC under the aegis of the Akal Takht in 2003.

 Talking to TOI on Tuesday, founder president of Sikh Foundation, Switzerland, Ranjit Singh Masuta said, “Over the years we have realized that Purewal-authored calendar doesn’t represent the aspirations of the Sikh Panth and is as flawed as its amended version.” Stating that the Sikh Foundation had held a meeting of Sikh leaders of Europe on the issue ​and had decided to write to the Akal Takht to initiate fresh efforts on making Sikh’s own calendar by forming a committee of subject experts from across the world.
 
 Till recent past, the foundation had been observing Sikh religious days according to Nanakshahi calendar of 2003. When asked why they suddenly found flaws in that calendar, Masuta replied, “We have held several ​conferences on the issue with subject experts from ​across​ ​Europe. The experts pointed out at several shortcomings in the 2003 Nanakshahi calendar, so we decided to observe the Sikh religious days according to the traditional calendar.”
 
 Jagjit Singh, president of Sikhi Sewa Society, Italy, told TOI that, “No doubt, there are serious differences among groups of Sikhs over the authentication of Nanakshahi calendars of 2003 or 2010. We want that Sikhs across the world should follow only one calendar. He said that the Sikhs look towards the Akal Takht to take lead and resolve the issue once for all.
 
 Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (PSGPC) member Ramesh Singh said their committee held a function at Gurdwara Janamasthan, Nankana Sahib, and released the calendar in the presence of a large number of Sikhs from Pakistan. “Earlier, there were some differences and confusion over the two calendars but now the Sikhs of Pakistan have decided to observe all religious days according to Pal Singh Purewal-authored calendar,” he added. 
 
 When questioned whether it was not a violation of the Akal Takht directives, which had asked Sikhs to follow calendar released by the SGPC, he said, “The Akal Takht is supreme to us but the Sikhs worldwide have a consensus to follow ‘mool’ calendar,” Ramesh said.
 
 After initially launching the Nanakshahi calendar based on the solar chart in 2003, a few Sikh bodies had objected on its dates, following which a committee was constituted that suggested various amendments, which were finally implemented in 2010. This opened a Pandora’s box with majority of Sikh bodies around the globe objecting to the amendments, which were allegedly done under the RSS influence. 
 
 Pritpal Singh, coordinator of American Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee, said Sikhs in America didn’t accept the unilateral changes made in the Nanakshahi calendar. “There is a need to have a committee of experts. If anybody has any objection, one can approach it,” he said, adding that in 2010 amendments were made b​y Damdami Taksal chief Harnam Singh Dhumma and the then SGPC president, Avtar Singh Makkar, which didn’t represent the aspirations of Sikhs.
 
 Meanwhile, Dal Khalsa launched the Nanakshahi calendar as designed and prepared by Purewal. “The current ​SGPC president Kirpal Singh Bandungar was instrumental in initiating the acceptance of the Nanakshahi calendar in its original form. The Dal Khalsa will engage him and the SGPC to correct the wrong done by the institution,” said party’s spokespersons Kanwarpal Singh.
 
 The All India Sikh Students Federation (Peermohammad) also released a calendar on the first day of Nanakshahi year and appealed to Sikhs to observe the religious days and hold functions according to the almanac.
 
 
