New Delhi: The BJP-led state government on Tuesday batted for the minority community and made an unsuccessful attempt before the   to get  , built on the approach road to the   dargah, exempted from demolition. 

 Appearing for the state, additional advocate-general Nishant Katneswarkar requested a bench of Chief Justice J S Khehar and Justice D Y Chandrachud to exempt the mosque from demolition, as ordered by the   on July 3.
 
 Katneswarkar said   the shrine could cause unrest, and sought permission for the BMC to exercise its power to regularise the mosque. But the SC snubbed him and said, “The Bombay HC had ordered the removal of all encroachments on the approach road to Haji Ali dargah. The dargah trust had challenged it before us. But neither the trust nor anyone from the community sought exemption of Kinara masjid from the drive to free the approach road from encroachments. We feel that it is you (state) who does not want to carry out the Bombay HC order, which was upheld by the SC.”
 
 Katneswarkar again argued that the BMC feared a law and order problem.if the Supreme Court esituation if the structure was to demolished. 
 
 After the July 3 apex court order, the dargah committee had approached the collector with a plea to save Kinara masjd from demolition. It had cited a 2011 policy of the Maharashtra government, which permitted illegal structures built before 2009 to be saved or shifted. After the committee’s request, the state decided to move the SC seeking clarification in its July 3 order.
 
 The SC had upheld the HC order on demolition of all encroachments on the approach road and had promised that a beautiful road to the famous shrine would be built. It had directed the state and BMC to engage experts to draw up a beautification plan for the Haji Ali dargah approach road. “Get the encroachments removed. We will make a beautiful approach road to the holy shrine. We know what a sacred place it is.s But, at present, it is surrounded by filth and slush. The trust has to help in removing the encroachments,” the CJI-headed bench had said.
 
