PUNE: The lure of an   turned into a disaster for a 45-year-old  

 She lost Rs 3.4 lakh in February 2016 in an attempt to secure the gift.
 
 On Monday, the   registered a case under Sections 419, 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Information and Technology Act after she filed a complaint. 
 
 An officer from the Chatushrungi police told TOI that last February, the woman received an email from an unidentified person. “They exchanged their cellphone numbers and started chatting through a mobile messaging service,” the officer said.
 
 A few days later, he called the woman and told her that he was sending a parcel containing some personal belongings of “one Mark Kumar from abroad” as well as a gift for her. 
 
 “Later, a person claiming to be a customs officer from New Delhi contacted her and told her to pay Rs 89,500 as clearance charges for the parcel,” the officer said.
 
 The officer added that the customs officer gave her an account number of a private bank and told her to deposit money in it. 
 
 “A few days after she deposited the amount, the customs officer called her again and told her that the parcel contained $1 lakh as a gift for her. However, she was told she must pay Rs 2.5 lakh to obtain an anti-terrorism certificate. The suspect then gave her a public sector bank’s account number. The woman immediately transferred it,” the officer said.
 
 While she was waiting for the parcel, the customs officer allegedly called her again. 
 
 “This time, the officer told her that she would have to pay another Rs 5 lakh to get a certificate from the income tax department,” the officer said. As the woman had already transferred Rs 3.39 lakh, she got suspicious. “She approached the customs office in Delhi and found that there was no such officer working there,” the officer said.
 
 With rise in such incidents over the last few years, cybercrime experts have repeatedly told people, especially women and senior citizens, to beware of online applications and networking sites where users can be at a risk of becoming a victim of theft, stalking, harassment, identity theft, webcam blackmail and even phishing scams.
 
