NASHIK: Police have stepped up security across the city following Tuesday’s low-intensity blast on the Bhopal-Ujjain passenger train at Jabri railway station in Madhya Pradesh. 

 In the first-ever strike in India by the  , a module radicalised by the terrorist organisation triggered the blast that injured 10 passengers. The two state police swung into action and nabbed the terrorists, suspected to be linked with the Bhopal-Ujjain  . One of them was killed by Uttar Pradesh ATS squad.
 
 Sources in central intelligence agencies and MP and UP police confirmed that the jihadi group owes allegiance to the IS, but were not clear whether the directive to carry out the attack had come from an “online handler” of the international terrorist network currently engaged in a grim battle of survival in Iraq and Syria. 
 
 A day after the blast, the Nashik police commissionerate on Wednesday sent instructions to all 13 police stations across the city to step up vigil in their respective areas and enhance patrolling. 
 
 Deputy commissioner of police (crime) Dattatray Karale told TOI that all officials and personnel of 13 police stations have been directed to keep a special eye on crowded spots such as religious places, markets and strategic establishments. 
 
 "We would also like to appeal to the residents to immediate inform the police if they come across any stranger indulging in kind of suspicious activity,” Karale said.
 
 The   (BDDS) squad based in the city has decided to carry out random checks at all important places. Senior BDDS officials said teams with two sniffer dogs will be pressed into service for detecting any explosive at crowded places like Nashik Road railway station, the adjoining parking area, the parking lots of the Currency Note Press (CNP) and   (ISP), Muktidaham in Nashik Road, Kalaram temple in Nashik city and other important religious places and crowded localities.
 
 In the meantime. the Bhusawal division of the Central Railway has also stepped up vigil on trains and at railway stations. Acting divisional security commissioner (Bhusawal division) Rambhau Pawar said the   (RPF) has taken several measures to step up security. “We are focusing much on random inspections on trains and frisking of passengers. We are also using sniffer dogs,” the officer said.
 
 The Railways has sniffer dogs at Bhusawal, Manmad, Akola and Khandwa. Pawar said RPF officers will be deployed on trains such as Panchavati Express that pass through the division during daytime. “The nigh trains have RPF escorts generally. But given the current scenario, RPF jawans in uniform and mufti will be escorting the train from time to time,” the officer said. 
 
 A team of federal probe agency NIA on Wednesday reached Bhopal to look into the train blast case.   (NIA) may visit the site of the blast near Jabri railway station under Shajapur district, about 60 kms from Bhopal, official sources said.
 
 
