GHAZIABAD:   chief   said at a campaign rally here on Tuesday that if elected to power, her government would not erect statues or monuments.

 Apparently learning from mistakes made during her time as chief minister, Mayawati said, “If I come to power, my government will neither erect monuments nor distribute free laptops and smartphones like Samajwadi Party.”
 
 Instead, she said, direct cash incentives would be provided to the poor and weaker sections of society for expenditure on their most basic needs. “For local developmental issues of Gautam Budh Nagar,   and Hapur, we will allocate whatever sum can be earmarked from the government treasury,” she said.
 
 Addressing a jam-packed rally in a region that her party swept in the last assembly election — BSP won six out of eight seats in Noida and Ghaziabad — Mayawati exhorted her supporters to ensure BJP’s defeat in the UP election since the party is “working towards ending caste-based reservation system in the country”.
 
 Mayawati also criticised her regional rival, Samajwadi Party, for its poor track record in law and order over the past five years and said the party’s captive vote bank has already been divided between the two factions belonging to chief minister Akhilesh Yadav and his uncle Shivpal Yadav.
 
 “BJP is trying to subvert the ideology of Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar which is enshrined in the Constitution of India as it is working to end caste-based reservation and other legal rights promised to the marginalised sections of the country. On the other hand, the   is try to impose its RSS-based ideology across the country,” Mayawati said. 
 
 She said their actions in this direction could be judged from the Rohit Vemula episode as well as the Una incident. “Don’t make the mistake of voting for BJP as its coming to power would mean atrocities against the downtrodden,” she warned her supporters. She also pointed out law and order problems in the past five years to tell people to not vote for SP.
 
 Mayawati tactfully used various incidents pertaining to law and order over the past five years to buttress her point about hooliganism under SP rule to the mammoth crowd. She cited incidents including the communal riots in Muzaffarnagar, the lynching incident in Dadri, clashes between the police and encroachers in Mathura and the Bulandshahr gang rape and said she would ensure the Jungle Raj of SP ends when she comes to power.
 
 “All the henchmen of SP who are roaming free across the state will be sent behind bars. Mulayam Singh Yadav publicly humiliated his brother Shivpal out of his love for son Akhilesh. The camps of Akhilesh and Shivpal are now working at loggerheads with each other. SP’s captive vote bank has been divided into two factions,” she said.
 
 She lashed out at Congress too during the rally. She said UP has remained backward despite the fact that Congress has ruled it for 37 years post-independence.
 
 
