HYDERABAD: The   has decided to go ahead with its promise of providing  . However, as against the earlier expected 12 percent, the quota is expected to be 9 percent and will be based on   and not religion.

 BC welfare secretary   told TOI that the   headed by   has completed its field study and will submit its report to the government on Tuesday. Citing very poor economic conditions of Muslims in Telangana, the report concluded that nearly 90 per cent of the minority community is reeling under severe poverty and recommended 8 to 9 per cent reservation for them and the TRS government is slated to approve the same this week.
 
 At present, Telangana provides reservation of 15 per cent to SCs, 7.5 per cent for STs and 25 per cent for Backward Classes under the four categories of A, B, C and D. In 2007, the then Congress government headed by   enacted a law providing 4 per cent quota for eco nomically backward Muslims by creating a separate group `E' under the BCs exclusively for the minorities. Under this quota, 14 classes of Muslims residing in the united AP (other than Dudekula, Laddaf, PinjariNoorbash and Mehtar) were included in the list of Backward Classes under separate Group `E'. However, it was challenged in the court of law and the case is presently pending before the Supreme Court.
 
 The BC Commission was constituted after the Sudheer Committee's report on Muslim welfare found urgent need for steps to improve the living conditions of the minorities. The TRS government appointed BS Ramulu as BC Commission chief for report on Muslim quota. Several Muslim outfits gave their views on the proposed 12% during the public hearing.
 
 According to sources, the state government wants to include the quota plan in the the 9th Schedule of the Constitution due to the SC cap of 50% on reservations and to also avoid legal challenges. If the 9% is added to the existing quota in Telangana, it would jump to 56.5%.But the state wants to go ahead citing the extreme socioeconomic backwardness of the community.
 
 CM K Chandrashekar Rao, in his recent speech in Assembly, had said, “We will make an act, pass the same and start implementation. If the Centre does not agree to include it in the 9th Schedule, we will fight it out with the Centre“. A few TRS ministers told TOI that they would go to any extent to get the reservations implemented, including sitting on a dharna at Jantar Mantar in New Delhi.
 
