Ever since the government announced on Monday that you can refuse to pay the ‘service charge’ that restaurants add to your bill if you are unhappy with the service, it has opened the Pandora’s box. The  , which varies from 5 to 20 per cent, has been charged by many restaurants for years from their patrons. But this latest advisory has created a chasm between those who levy this charge on their customers and those who don’t. We bring you the reactions of both the sides…

 
 
 Admitting that this new diktat by the government is not correct, hotelier   makes his stand clear as he says, “This   charge was used not merely to pay regular tips to our staff, it also came in handy to pay for the wear and tear of the crockery and for the maintenance. Now I will be forced to increase the rates in the menu to ensure that I don’t suffer any loss. Moreover, it is a wrong statement on the part of the government that ‘you can refuse to pay if you don’t like the service’; it hurts the morale of the staff.”
 
 
 
 There are many restaurateurs out there, who don’t levy service charge on their guests.   belongs to this cadre. But he goes on to add, “There is a lot of confusion in people’s minds about service tax and service charge. They have to remember that service tax will still be charged because it goes in government’s kitty, whereas service charge is collected as a collective   for the staff. Since we never charged our patrons the service charge, we have nothing to worry.” On Hansles is another restaurateur who remains unaffected by this brouhaha. He says, “Our patrons never had to pay for service charge, so we don’t have to change our billing process.”
 
 
 
 As this debate heats up, restaurant owner   makes it clear that this decision to do away with service charge will hurt the poor. “When we started our signature restaurant, we didn’t add the service tax. But later, we added it because it is not possible to pay the outstation staff as much as they get in metros. The money that was collected as service charge was meant solely for the staff, now we are discussing the best possible way to do away with this charge. But the fact is that staff will suffer because many people in Nagpur are quite tight-fisted when it comes to tips,” says she.
 
 
 
 Lounge owner   says that he wants to abide by the government’s advisory and goes on to add: “We will completely do away with it, although it used to help us pay for the maintenance, electricity and breakage etc. Honestly speaking, our guests didn’t mind paying the service charge, but we are removing this aspect from the bill merely to respect the government’s guidelines.”
 
