I remember bailing on a birthday party for my spa appointment. I ended up cancelling a family dinner because I wanted to finish reading a book. I ditched my best friend’s house warming because I was feeling exhausted.

 If selfish is the first word that comes to your mind when you read this, I agree with you. I take decisions that make me happy, and if that makes me selfish, so be it. Wanting to make myself happy is my number one priority, and the last thing that people should be doing is shaming me for it.
 
 I distinctly remember the incident that got me okay with the ‘selfish' tag. I had to meet a friend who had come to town just for a day. She wanted to meet me once her work got done, and I was busy at that time. She requested that I reschedule, but I didn’t, simply because I didn’t want to. That was quite a selfish move, (something she told me later). However, the point was, I took a decision that was more comfortable for me, than for anyone else, and while, at that point, I did feel a little bad, I got over the feeling real fast.
 
 There is something about the word ‘selfish’ that is so negative you instantly want to disassociate from it. We use the word to talk about people who seem too self-involved, who don’t care about others, and who only prioritise themselves. 
 
 However, if you really think about it, I don’t understand why people expect you to put them first. Why would you? You don’t really owe them anything, do you? When you love someone, you tend to make them your first priority, and put their needs above everyone else’s. It’s only fair, then, that you put yourself first. You can’t love others while compromising your own needs. 
 
 The idea that love is only true if you forget your needs for those of the ones you love is quite ridiculous. You need to be able to care for yourself first — put yourself on the number one spot — before you do it for anyone else.
 
 For me, selfishness comes in only when you start expecting the world to put you first too. That is not fair. But you have every right to make yourself feel like a king/queen. Love yourself and stop feeling guilty each time you choose yourself over others.
 
 
 
 
