VISAKHAPATNAM: The state government will constitute a task force with officials drawn from the police, excise and drug control department for   of   and legislation in educational institutions, said HRD minister Ganta Srinivasa Rao. 

 Addressing the media after a meeting with the managements of various schools on Sunday, the minister said that the state government will also set up a helpline to counsel students and help them. “A meeting on prevention of drug abuse and measures will be conducted in   on Tuesday where managements of junior colleges, degree colleges and engineering colleges will be present. Later, a huge rally will be taken up in RK Beach to build a mass movement against drug abuse and mafia,” he said.
 
 The HRD minister further said that they do not want to see AP become another Hyderabad as far as drug usage is concerned. “We have clear instructions from chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu to ensure that the drug laws are enforced strictly,” he added.
 
 The minister said that teachers and parents should keenly monitor the behaviour of their students/wards. “Awareness programmes against drug abuse should be conducted in each schools on a regular basis. The schools should also conduct parent-teacher meetings. Parents should also limit the amount of pocket money given to their wards,” he said.
 
 “We have asked each school to recruit a counsellor. But all schools cannot afford a counsellor, so we have decided to set up a helpline with a counselling team which will serve for the entire state. Drug use is a non-bailable offence. Vizag has earned the dubious distinction of being the ganja capital of the country. As many bigwigs are involved in ganja cultivation in Visakha Agency, eradicating it from its roots is the only option to make Vizag a ganja-free district,” he added.
 
 City MLAs P Vishnu Kumar Raju, P Srinivas and V  , AU vice-chancellor Prof G Nageswara Rao, assistant excise commissioner  , district education officer G Nagamani and others were present at the meeting.
 
