NEW DELHI: Faced with a divided opinion in the 
  ,   is likely to stay neutral and wait for the TN governor’s decision on government formation.

 Congress vice-president   met state leaders on Friday, only to find a split view.
 
 While state unit chief Thirunavukkarasar wants the party to back “immediate swearing-in”, which translates to backing  , some leaders are not inclined in her favour, and have even betrayed a weakness for 
  .
 
 Besides Thirunavukkarasar, former   member EMS Natchiappan is learnt to have taken the same line. Thirunavukkarasar told TOI, “The governor should fulfil his constitutional duty, which means inviting the person whom the legislature party has elected as its leader. Congress is not bothered about individuals.”
 
 However, P Chidambaram, EVKS Elangovan and others are against showing any softness for Sasikala. Chidambaram has even gone to the extent of saying that the governor is within his rights to delay the swearing-in.
 
 A view in Congress is that Sasikala may have the backing of a majority of MLAs but the AIADMK rank and file favours Panneerselvam. Given the uncertainty, Congress is likely to stay aloof and watch the situation unfold.
 
 A Congress office-bearer said Rahul told party leaders to wait for the governor’s decision before taking a stand.
 
 According to party leaders, the eight MLAs of Congress in TN have little role in government formation but landing on the right side of the AIADMK feud could be key to the coming presidential elections. AIADMK’s solid strength in the assembly and Parliament gives it a disproportionate voice in the presidential electoral college.
 
 According to the political buzz, if   has a bad result in the 
  , realignment by a couple of regional parties can open up the top election.
 
 Given the prospect, Congress members argue that the party gains little by antagonising AIADMK if Sasikala is going to emerge victorious.
 
 But siding with her in the uncertain scenario, with a looming court verdict in a corruption case, can also prove a costly mistake.
 
