SmackDown Live commissioner   got the 'stolen' WWE World Heavyweight championship from the 'Maharaja'   before making his way to the middle of the ring to announce the newest member of the SmackDown Live rooster, the new United States Champion,  . McMahon then made Jericho's first match on SmackDown Live - a title defence against former champ  . But the number one contender for the US title at Backlash AJ Styles rekindled his fairly new rivalry by confronting Jericho. Owens got himself in the mix and it did not take much time for Styles to go after Owens. Styles was banned from ringside for the main event later. 

 
 
 
 Zayn started hot and with a pop up drop kick had Mahal outside the ring but a distraction from Samir Singh helped Mahal to take control of the proceedings by pushing Zayn into the barricade. Mahal then got a 2-count on Zayn. Mahal went for a superlex on Zayn but the Underdog from the Underground countered it and took flight only for Mahal to evade and dump Zayn with a running knee. Two count again on Zayn before the he floored Zayn with a couple of clothelines. A cross body earned Zayn his first 2-count of the match. Zayn got Mahal in position for the Helluva Kick but Samir Singh first pulled Mahal away before Sunil Singh grabbed Zayn's leg; that set up Mahal to put down Zayn with the modified Yurinagi Slam and picked up the victory 
 
  
  
 
 After interrupting The Artiste Aiden English, Dillinger was reeling early after a cheap shot by English but Dillinger got himself back quick with a flying forearm, kick combo, clothesline followed by a knee to the face before stomping English in the corner. Dillinger then got English up for his finisher the Tyebreaker - a Ushigiroshi - but hit a new finisher - a fireman's carry single knee facebreaker. 
 
  
  
 
 After SmackDown live welcoming committee of Natalya, Carmella and Tamina took out Charlotte backstage, Naomi was without a tag partner and faced Natalya and Carmella in a 2 on 1 handicap match. Naomi got the better of Carmella and had Natalya reeling as well. But Natalya came back by planting Naomi's face on the steel steps. Carmella managed to put down Naomi before Charlotte made her way to the ring, very gingerly. Naomi got the tag and cleaned the ring. But the Welcoming Committee made a comeback after Natayla's clothesline on the ring apron on Charlotte. Charlotte dogded a   from Carmella tagging Naomi and the SmackDown Live champion changed the tempo of the game and had Carmella down with the rear view. Natalaya's distraction helped her save the match and then   got up on the ring apron allowing Carmella to pick up the win with a roll. An all-out scuffle broke out in the middle after the match before it was interrupted by Becky Lynch. Lynch teased joining the Welcoming Committee before going on an assault to them. But the numbers game got to Lynch with Tamina planting the Irish Lass-kicker with a Super-Kick and the then the Welcoming Committee dismantled the first SmackDown Live women's champion to stand tall in the middle of the ring. 
 
  
  
 
 Sin Cara got his moves early on with a slingshot cross body, slingshot moonsault and suicide dive from the middle rope before Ziggler got back with a neck breaker. Ziggler went for the Fameasser but Cara dodged and showed his strength picking up Ziggler with one arm and planted him for a 2-count. Cara went for a moonsault but Ziggler got the knees up and picked up the victory with a Super-Kick. 
 
 
 
 Jericho got off the gates well with a big elbow drop on Owens followed by a standing dropkick. Jericho went after Owens' broken hand. However, Owens' got the match in control with a kick to the head of Jericho and went on an assault. Jericho made a brief comeback but Owens' still continued to hold his own with a canon ball on the barricade. Jericho went for a top rope drop kick but Owens' scouted the second one well. Jericho avoided the pop up powerbomb and then hit the Owens' with the Walls of Jericho. Owens managed to break the hold and hit a jawbreaker followed by a super-kick for a 2-count on Jericho. Owens' went for a pop up once again but Jericho countered with a hurricurana transitioned in to a second Walls of Jericho submission. Owens' again got to the rope. Owens' then got out of the ring and Jericho followed, but he ate a Super-kick followed by a snap DDT on the floor. Jericho looked hurt after the move but broke the count on two after a second Super-Kick. Jericho was not moving well but he played posom and got a 2-count with a small package. But Owens' managed to hit Jericho with the third pop-up powerbomb and won his second United States Championship. Jericho was assisted out of the ring by officials but Owens' came back again to assault Jericho. He stuck a chair in Jericho's neck and pushed him to the ring post and walked away rather pleased. 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
