GURUGRAM: In 2013,   won an award from the district administration for her work in the field of child care and rehabilitating orphaned kids. Four years later, the 65-year-old stands accused of   and promoting Christianity. The orphanage she has been running for nearly two decades,  , in Sector 4 has been shut down and its occupants, among them three teenaged girls brought up by the nun, moved to other homes. 

 Yet, officially, there are no charges yet against Baretto. 
 
 Ujjwal Niketan was shut down after successive raids by   (CWC) last November and this February. Baretto was primarily accused on two counts — “poor living conditions” at Ujjwal Niketan and breaking adoption laws in handing over two girls, added 5 and 7, to a couple from Mangalore in 2016. 
 
 CWC chairperson Shakuntala Dhull also levelled charges of child trafficking against Baretto. “Despite our repeated requests, she did not provide us details of three kids placed in this home, which has led to charges of trafficking,” said Dhull. Refuting the charges, Baretto said the CWC had got its facts wrong. “There were only two girls (placed at the home) and not three, as claimed by the CWC. There are two names of the same girl, but CWC is considering them as two different girls,” she said.
 
 So far, neither the district administration, nor police is unsure how to act against Baretto because the charges are vague. No formal case has been filed against her yet. In the meantime, a video has been doing the rounds in which the three teenaged girls who lived in Ujjwal Niketan are purportedly seen pleading not to be shifted from there. Three notes, believed to be written by the three girls threatening to end their lives if they were taken away, have also surfaced. 
 
 The girls, in their late teens, were moved to Aarushi, another orphanage, on February 23, after the November raid found Ujjwal Niketan “unliveable”. The girls had been with Baretto for over 10 years — two of them were brought to her when they were just 5 and the other at the age of 3. Asked if the girls were shifted against their wishes, Dhull said, “I am not answerable to anyone. You can write whatever you wish to. These letters are fake and perhaps they were written long back under some pressure. These girls are unable to understand what is being done to them.” Asked about the video, she added, “I don’t want to see any video as the girls appeared to be happy when I met them.” 
 
 Baretto said the allegations against her are false and she was being harassed. Referring to the kids adopted by the Mangalorean couple, she said, “These two kids were not a part of this shelter home”, and that she had only facilitated the adoption. Dhull said she could not legally do that. “As per the Juvenile Justice Act, she cannot move them without informing the CWC,” said Dhull. She also accused Baretto of “promoting Christianity” as the two Hindu kids were adopted by a Christian family. The couple from Mangalore returned the kids to the CWC last month. 
 
 Ujjwal Niketan was started in 1994 with 14 kids in a New Colony house and shifted to its current address in 2000. It had 22 children when it was shut down. Baretto, a Mangalorean who used to teach slum kids in Delhi, around Gol Dak Khana, before moving to Gurgaon, said, “I have been running this shelter for over 20 years and this what I get in return for doing good. It has all come as a shock. All three girls told me they are desperate to come back. One of them has board exams and is very distressed.” 
 
 Additional deputy commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh said, “There are some allegations against the shelter home in which the girls (the three teenagers who were shifted) were staying. We have sent a report to the state government for further action.” The SHO of Sector 5 police station said no FIR has been filed in the episode. 
 
 
