1. O Panneerselvam on Tuesday 
  , meditated for over half an hour. Later, he accused  's camp of pressurising him to step down from the chief minister post. "I am saying these facts in front of you to make things clear in public. I will continue to struggle. I will take back my resignation if people, MLAs want," Panneerselvam had said.

 2. Panneerselvam also said Sasikala and her supporters got annoyed with the success of his government on issues like 
  , mitigating of drinking water crisis in Chennai, setting right the damage caused by Vardah cyclone.
 
 3. VK Sasikala soon after the emergency meet with party MLAs, addressed a press conference. She alleged that the main opposition Dravida Munnetra Kazakham 
  against her and asserted that all the party MLAs are with her and hence there is "no problem" in her becoming the   Chief Minister.
 
 4. Panneerselvam was also removed from the post of party treasurer and would also be removed from AIADMK's primary membership, Sasikala announced.
 
 5. Soon after being removed from the post of AIADMK treasurer by party General Secretary VK Sasikala, Chief Minister O Panneerselvam said no one had the right to do so and rubbished her claims that DMK was behind his moves.
 
 6. DMK Working President MK Stalin too extended support for Panneerselvam and said that action should be taken against those who had threatened him to resign from the post of Tamil Nadu Chief Minister.
 
 7. As soon as Paneerselvam concluded his explosive press conference on Marina Beach, he had already become 
  cutting across party lines. Appreciating Paneerselvam's declaration, DMK MLA from Chepauk-Triplicane J Anbazhagan tweeted congratulated him for his bold speech while joint secretary of the AIADMK IT wing Hari Prabhakaran tweeted in support of OPS, saying that he was not afraid of being removed from his post.
 
 8. Sasikala is already waiting for the Supreme Court's verdict in the 20-year-old disproportionate assets case involving late former chief minister of Tamil Nadu J Jayalalithaa. A positive judgment will solidify  's standing as Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu, whereas a conviction will come as a blow to her run to the CM's chair. 
 
 9. Panneerselvam is in no mood to surrender as he has again lashed out at VK Sasikala in the last 12 hours. "There have been doubts about Amma's death. An investigation commission headed by a retired judge is needed to look Amma's death as it is the duty of a government to eliminate doubts of people. We will constitute an inquiry committee. The committee will submit its report to the high court, and the report will be made public," he said on Wednesday. 
 
 10. On Tuesday, veteran ADMK leader PH Pandian claimed that Sasikala's elevation was against party norms, saying she didn't have the locus standi to either be the party chief or chief minister. "Within 20 days after the demise of Jayalalithaa, party leaders were made to say that they wanted Sasikala to be the party chief and added that it was against party rules. Only cadres can elect the general secretary," Pandian had said.
 
 
 
 
 
