CHENNAI: Can V K   be lodged in a Tamil Nadu jail? Perhaps. If the Tamil Nadu government writes to the Karnataka government and if the latter agrees to the request, she could be sent to a jail in Tamil Nadu but only after being taken to and lodged at a jail in Karnataka.

 Convicted in the Rs 66.65 crore disproportionate   by the Supreme Court on Tuesday, Sasikala, her deceased brother’s wife J Ilavarasi and nephew V N Sudhagaran have to surrender before the special court in Karnataka. After the case was shifted out of Tamil Nadu on DMK general secretary K Anbazhagan’s petition in 2003, Karnataka replaced Tamil Nadu as the official prosecuting state of the case.
 
 The special court in Bengaluru, which tried the three along with the prime accused J Jayalalithaa, convicted all of them in September 2014 and awarded four years each as sentence besides imposing a total of Rs 130 crore, including Rs 100 crore on   alone, as fine. All the four spent 21 days at Parapana Agrahara jail in Bengaluru before being released on bail by the Supreme Court in October 2014.
 
 Now Sasikala and the two others will have to first surrender before the Bengaluru court and go to the jail there. The apex court has said the appeals against Jayalalithaa would abate since she had expired during the pendency of the case.
 
 However, since the highest court has passed its orders and there being no further appeal provision, save for review or curative proceedings whose success rate is negligible, Sasikala and others could move governments for transfer to a Tamil Nadu jail. Prisoner swap programme is routinely done by all governments to transfer out and take in prisoners. The three could request the Tamil Nadu government to take this route. If the Tamil Nadu government writes to the Karnataka dispensation, the latter could consider it and allow either a unilateral transfer or as a swap arrangement.
 
 But with there being no guarantee that a government friendly to Sasikala will be in place in Tami Nadu, the possibility looks remote.
 
 
