BENGALURU: A day after   in Malleswaram was closed after a wall collapsed, injuring two women, police booked the mall owner on Tuesday for alleged negligence.
Malleswaram police, who took up a suo motu complaint based on the statements made by the injured, registered a case under IPC Section 337, which deals with voluntarily causing hurt by an act endangering the life or personal safety of others. Police have not named the mall owner. “As of now, we've charged the mall owner with negligence. The BBMP will submit a report on the reason behind the collapse. If we come across apathy from the contractor or any others concerned, we will add their names to the FIR,“ a senior police officer told TOI.
 
 A person held guilty under Section 337 could be jailed for up to six months or a fine of up to Rs 500, or both.
 
 The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike has formed an expert committee to conduct an inquiry into the incident and submit a report in 15 days. BBMP commissioner   said it was found necessary to conduct the expert committee inspection to assess the stability of the building in the larger interest of public safety.“The committee members will conduct tests as per ISI norms to analyze the structural stability of the mall. Till then, the mall will remain closed and the occupancy certificate suspended,“ he added.
 
 A copy of the order, accessed by TOI, says the committee will have technical experts Radhakrishna, associate professor with  , and KS Jayasim ha, R Nagendra and MS Sudarshan from CIVIL-AID Technoclinic. The BBMP commissioner will be the chairman of the committee, while BBMP additional director (townplanning) will be the convener and member-secretary .
 
 No repair work undertaken
 
 BBMP joint commissioner (West zone) PR Palangappa, who conducted a spot inspection on Tuesday, said, “The portion of the collapsed wall will remain as it is till the expert committee conducts a spot inspection. We will not allow any repair work till then. We have told the mall authorities to ensure that enough support is given to the adjacent walls and corridors so that the structure is stable.“
 
 Sources in the BBMP said debris and concrete material kept falling on to the ground on Monday night and Tuesday morning. “The water collected in the corridors is being cleaned but seepage is still there in some parts,“ they said.
 
 Victims discharged
 
 Malleswaram police said Amarin Begum and Yashoda, who were injured in the wall collapse at Mantri Square, were discharged from  , where they were treated. “Amarin suffered scratches on her legs and hands while Yashoda's head and back were swollen. Amarin was treated as an outpatient while Yashoda was discharged on Monday night,“ police said.
 
