GUWAHATI: Over 200 trees will be felled on a 250-bigha plot of land close to the   here, which has been allotted to the 1st battalion of the National Disaster Force (NDRF), according to documents provided under an   application filed by environmental activist  .

 The plot allotted to NDRF is outside the boundary of Amsang, but the area has forest cover and is contiguous to the sanctuary, a letter provided by the Guwahati wildlife division under RTI said. "The entire landscape with the plot allotted to NDRF is used by animals including elephants of   Wildlife Sanctuary as an ideal habitat," the letter, dated January 5 this year, to   (Metro) district deputy commissioner office said.
 
 The plot is situated within the sanctuary’s eco-sensitive zone, the letter added. A total of 211 trees are going to be felled and 1,97,600 cubic metre earth-cutting will be carried out. "In the given situation, the proposal to fell large number of tree with huge quantity of earth cutting in the site is going to alter the environment adversely for the wild animals in situ and in the contiguous wildlife sanctuary," the letter stated.
 
 The letter also pointed out that about 2 km of the approach road to the allotted plot passes through the sanctuary and development of this portion of the road will attract the provisions of Forest Conservation Act, 1980. The letter further mentioned that during environment and forest minister Pramila Rani Brahma’s visit to Amsang on December 27 last year, had advised for reviewing the matter and giving allotment of land to NDRF in a different location away from the sanctuary. Under the RTI application, an order document from the Kamrup (Metro) district magistrate’s office stated that the 250 bigha plot outside Amsang cannot be termed as an ideal habitat for wildlife. The order said that the allotment of the land to NDRF would not not affect the parameter of eco-sensitive zone as a central government agency it is not expected to undertake any activities in violation of provisions contained in the draft notification of eco-sensitive zone of Amsang Wildlife Sanctuary.
 
 Choudhury’s RTI applications were filed last month when the district administration, along with forest department, launched an eviction drive in Amsang against illegal settlers. The eviction drive had to be stopped after dismantling structures in the 200-hectare area under encroachment in Amsang following resistance from the settlers.
 
