Nagpur: It was a teary-eyed affair for the members of Dawoodi Bohra community as their beloved spiritual leader, the 53rd dai al’mutlaq Syedna Mufaddal Saifuddin, bid farewell to the city and its citizens on Friday. Syedna’s historic visit to the city centred around inaugurating the new mosque in Sadar (Al Masjid Ul Burhani) and commemorating the death anniversary of Maulatena Fatema, daughter of Prophet Mohammad.  Syedna arrived in the city on February 5 to a grand welcome as over 10,000 devotees gathered at the new mosque to catch a glimpse of His Holiness. This was followed by inauguration of the new mosque. Syedna gave it the title of ‘Al Masjid Ul Burhani’ after his late father, the 52nd dai al’mutlaq Syedna Mohammad Burhanuddin. On February 6, His Holiness delivered a sermon on Maulatena Fatema. During the sermon, he appreciated Nagpurians and their city. His comment that “Muharram, which is the death anniversary of Imam Hussain could be observed in the city” was received with euphoria.  His Holiness also encouraged the members to strive for excellence in whatever field they are in. After these two major events, Syedna, in the following days of his stay, visited several families of the community at their shops and homes and established a connect with them by blessing them. Mass marriages were conducted to cut down expenses on weddings. A business trade fair was also conducted to bring together all merchants of the community so that they could catch a glimpse of Syedna and receive his blessings. Members of his family delivered a talk on importance of balancing religious and worldly affairs equally for the young Dawoodi Bohras. Syedna also visited Yavatmal, Chandrapur, Dhamangaon, Pulgaon, Wardha and Warora to give blessings to the rural folk.  Syedna and his family members departed for Mumbai, his hometown, by Shalimar Express on Friday. A short farewell function was conducted at Sadar mosque where Syedna cited the farewell speech of his late father. His Holiness also appreciated the efforts taken by the Dawoodi Bohras in making his stay a pleasant one. He prayed for the well-being of all citizens and promised to visit again. A huge crowd gathered at the mosque and Syedna prayed for the people deprived of income and for those borne with some disease. Syedna also recounted the tale of Imam Hussain and instructed his followers to never forget his martyrdom.  “It is like a family member has left the house,” said Hussain Sanawadwala, member of the community, after Syedna left for Mumbai. “The feeling of emptiness is prevalent. Maula stayed with us for ten days and blessed us. He prayed for our well-being and promised to visit us again. We are really looking forward to it,” he said.