KOLKATA: Hundreds of Kolkata Knight Riders fans from the city are heading south with flights and match tickets booked for Bangalore where   is likely to play the next two matches in the play-offs this week, albeit if they win the first match.

 Seats on most of the 12 daily flights to Bangalore are fast filling up and so are the tickets at the stadium. Gaurav Kapoor had booked tickets for Bangalore within hours of returning home from the   last Saturday. “It was a close match and we lost it by a very small margin. But it was certain that KKR will make it to the top-four. I didn’t waste time and booked the tickets to Bangalore at the earliest to get the tickets cheap and easily,” said Gaurav, who runs a garments showroom in Park Street.
 
 But not everyone acted as fast as Kapoor, and they are now shelling out more to watch their team in action. By Monday evening, ticket prices soared by around 40%-50%.
 
 KKR will play the Eliminator against   at M   stadium on Wednesday evening. The winner of the match will play at the same ground again on Friday against the winner of the first qualifier between Mumbai Indians and Rising Pune Supergiants.
 
 Bangalore-bound fans are hoping that KKR would beat David Warner-led Sunrisers Hyderabad, especially after   and Sunil Narine had played devastating knocks at the same ground during the group stage.
 
 “KKR will have an advantage over SRH. This is the ground where KKR had demolished RCB. Sunrisers is clueless since this is where their match against RCB was washed out without a ball being bowled. We are going to win,” said Keshab Chatterjee, who is cutting down his stay at home in Kolkata and is rushing back to his workplace at Bangalore with his wife on Tuesday to watch the match.
 
 Incidentally, KKR had won their second IPL trophy in 2014 at this ground beating Kings XI Punjab. The ground is much smaller than the Eden Gardens and has a seating capacity of 38,000. Tickets for the Eliminator are priced between Rs 800 and Rs 20,000.
 
 Tour operators in the city have clarified that the sudden rush are not corporate bookings but is entirely due to the possibility of KKR playing two matches there. “We generally don’t witness a rush like this for Bangalore at this time of the year when people opt to travel to cooler places like hills. There is a steady rise in ticket sales and queries at our office since Monday morning,” said  , chairman (east) of the Travel Agents’ Federation of India.
 
