MALDA/KOLKATA: Carrying illegal arms by politicians has come under criticism within the BJP family. Hours within state BJP president Dilip Ghosh trying to make out a case for him, citing a similar display of arms by Trinamool leader at   24 Parganas, Union minister of state Rao Inderjit Singh chose to differ with the supporters of the armed Ram Navami processions.

 “If someone chooses to take out a procession with illegal arms, law should take its course no matter which party he belongs to,” Singh said at Malda on Friday, sending ripples down the saffron camp. Singh’s statement sounded similar to what chief minister   said at Asansol, drawing a distinction between religious rallies and rallies led by politicians.
 
 Singh later clarified: “In some parts of the country religious processions are being taken out with swords, choppers and khukris. This is no crime, but carrying illegal arms is a crime. Government may take action against such activities.” While some of the office-bearers in Malda tried to argue that the state BJP president was not carrying “illegal” arms, a host of state BJP office-bearers confided that carrying arms by a public representative may give the party a fillip for the time being but will alienate it from the civil society in the long run.
 
 BJP national secretary in charge of Bengal Kailash Vijayvargiya, however, threw his weight behind Ghosh charged under the Arms Act. “Mamata Banerjee is taking a negative role. With many of her ministers accused in Ponzi scams, she is now trying to put up a brave front. If she sticks to the rule of law, she has to do so for all. The fact is she enforces law on BJP, but not on other communities. This is where the compulsions of her vote-bank politics come into play,” the BJP national secretary said.
 
 Whatever the defence, BJP politicians seem to have toned down the defiance. For instance, Union minister Babul Supriyo will be busy inaugurating projects at Basirhat in North 24 Parganas, giving a miss to the Ram Navami celebrations in Asansol on April 9. “The minister has government programmes at Basirhat on that day. We have requested him to be present at the celebrations at Asansol on April 11,” said BJP state spokesperson  . Asked if people will be carrying arms there, Basu said: “These celebrations are organised by the akharas. We don’t have any role in organising them.”
 
 Even the Vishwa Hindu Parishad was not very forthcoming about any armed gathering at Kolkata on April 11. “I can’t say this in advance. Several sadhus and sants will be present at the programme. We leave it to them,” said VHP spokesperson Sourish Mukherjee. 
 
 Those who had carried arms during the Ram Navami celebrations in Kolkata apart from Dilip Ghosh have also come under pressure from police.   has already started serving notices to the organisations in the city. Notices were also served at the residences of individuals asking them to appear before the police on Friday evening. 
 
