GAYA: Governor-cum-chancellor Ram Nath Kovind on Tuesday appointed Kusum Kumari, professor, department of philosophy and director of women studies department, as interim vice-chancellor (VC) of   (MU), Bodh Gaya. Kusum would assume charge on February 10 following the end of the three-year tenure of outgoing VC Md Ishtiaque.

 Ishtiaque will go back to Jamia Millia Islamia University, New Delhi, as geography professor. The appointment has been made on the basis of seniority. Kusum was promoted to the post of professor on March 21, 1991. D D Roy, Kusum’s immediate rival for the post, was promoted as professor around eight months later on November 13, 1991.
 
 The arrangement will continue till the appointment of a regular VC. The appointment process is likely to take two-three months. Candidates for the post of permanent VC, according to sources, have already been shortlisted. They will have to appear before the search committee constituted for the purpose, which in turn would be recommending three names for the post of regular VC to be appointed for a period of three years. Kusum is also an applicant for the post of regular VC.
 
 Kusum, according to university sources, is the second woman to head the university administration. In 1988, Indu Dhan was appointed as VC. She was, however, removed midway her three year term.
 
 MU is set for bifurcation and more than 50% of the 44 constituent colleges of the university will be attached with the proposed   with its headquarters near Beur in south Patna. Three of the four deficit grant minority colleges too are set to be severed with MU, leaving only MG College, Gaya with the parent university. Colleges located in Patna and Nalanda districts will be attached with Patliputra University, while colleges located in Gaya, Jehanabad, Arwal, Nawada and Aurangabad would remain in MU.
 
 Lobbying has already started for the post of Patliputra University VC. Besides the outgoing MU VC Ishtiaque, Commerce College principal Baban Yadav and MU Patna branch office in-charge   are said to be the contenders for the post of Patliputra University’s first VC. 
 
