Mumbai:   over delayed merit list and uncorrected errors in students’ scores on the first day of first-year junior college ( ) admissions has prompted the education department to consider extending the process by a day. A final decision is expected on Thursday evening.

 “We will review the situation after the 5pm deadline on Thursday and, if required, the   deadline could be extended till 12pm on July 14. The schedule ahead won’t be changed,” said B B Chavan, deputy director of education, Mumbai.
 
 On Tuesday, several colleges were inconvenienced as they received their lists late in the day and could not upload student details till late in the afternoon. On Wednesday, though, the admission process had eased out at most city colleges. “The process was smoother and we were also able to upload admission details. We were better prepared and could complete a lot of admissions. Only a few admissions are pending across streams,” said Ashok Wadia, principal, Jai Hind College, Churchgate.
 
 Similarly, V G Vaze College, Mulund, completed 947 admissions by the end of Day Two. The college was allotted a total of 1,348 students. “We are expecting around 85% of the admissions to be confirmed in this round itself. Since there is no option of provisional admission, the crowds are slightly lesser since students may be waiting for the second round,” said vice-principal Vidyadhar Joshi. 
 
 Until last year, students could secure a seat by paying just Rs 50 and wait for the next lists for a chance at a better college. But the absence of provisional admission this time round has students worried. “I want admission at N M College but am 5% short of the current cut-off. I have secured admission at Mithibai College but am not sure if I should wait because there is a chance that there would be no vacancy left in Mithibai in the second list,” said a commerce aspirant. Students applying under quotas such as handicapped complained that the information booklet did not have the cut-offs for those categories, making it difficult for them to make a selection.
 
 On Wednesday, students made a beeline for the office of the deputy director at Charni Road with requests to either change the college allotted to them or to inquire about the expected cut-offs in the second merit list, which will be announced on July 20. “Students have listed a college as their top preference but don’t want it now that it is allotted to them. Some have also applied at colleges where the cut-offs are very high and not in line with their scores,” said an official attending to student queries.
 
