One hundred and sixty players in nine teams from around the country took to the   in Gundlapochampalli recently to compete against each other in a sport called  . Also known as   around the world, the fast-paced sport, though is in a fledgling state in the country, in the last couple of years have garnered many fans in India in general and Hyderabad in particular. 
Titled  , the ultimate Frisbee tournament was organised by the Hyderabad Ultimate Frisbee Association for the past five years as a part of the on-going Ultimate Players Association of India’s ( ) regional challenger series. 
 Bengaluru-based Slipdisc clinched the title, while Pune-based Flying Spirits emerged as the runners-up. “Ultimate frisbee as a sport is growing in popularity around the world. It is a lesser known fact that India also has an active in the ultimate scene and it is growing exponentially. Ultimate, being a mix gender non-contact sport, gives a platform for women to play alongside men on the field. Ultimate is self-refereed sport and gives a lot of importance to the ‘spirit of the sport’,” says Om Prakash Kancharla, a member of the Hyderabad frisbee team, Disco Tech. 
 Talking about the frisbee scene in the city, he said, “It is not that good, but to call it non-existent will be a misnomer. There are a few teams in the city that take the sport seriously and one of them being the kids of Teach for India, which is promising.”
 Dhiraj, a member of the winning team from Bangalore, who lived in Hyderabad for a decade says, “I guess the frisbee scene in Bangalore is the best right now with 13 teams. Compared to other cities, Hyderabad is lagging behind because of the dearth of playing spaces. I mean, there are no grounds to play the game here. Moreover it is a mixed sport, and for some reason, there are not many women who are willing to take up the sport.”
 Other than being a tough sport that demands fast reflexes, stamina and a lot of agility, ultimate being a self-refereed game, also stresses on developing genuine sportsmanship of the players to maintain fair play. There is no referee in the game, all players are expected to administer and adhere to the rules of the game. That places the responsibility for fair play on every player on the field. Rules are trusted with the players and they are expected to respect them. Competition is encouraged, but not at the cost of mutual respect. 
 Thus, to encourage sportsmanship, the most spirited team is awarded the spirit award, which is, as Om prakash puts it is, “more respectful than the winning trophy.” Ashwini Menon, a member of the Mumbai team, Storm Chaser, which won the spirit award gushes, “Ours is a one year old team, so we didn’t expect to win. We just wanted to participate and enjoy the game. But winning the spirit award is indeed rewarding.” She adds, “We never lost our cool, even if it was one of our team members who lost us the game. We overlooked all negativities, reacted calmly towards any disagreement or provocation. Our main moto was to play and enjoy the game, and we did it. When we came back to Mumbai, the other teams were so proud of us.”
 
