MUMBAI: Twenty years after he eloped with a girl belonging to another religion, a   will now have to face trial for the offences of  . In the past two decades, much change has taken place in Sameer Khan’s life—he got married to the girl Deepa after he got out of jail in 1998, had two sons from the relationship and even got divorced. The original complainant—Deepa’s father—meanwhile died during pendency of the case.

 Khan recently approached the Bombay high court after he was arrested in November 2016 on the basis of a   issued against him by the magistrate’s court for not remaining present to face trial. Khan’s lawyers also pointed out that his ex-wife Deepa had filed an affidavit before the sessions court that she did not have any complaints against him.
 
 Justice Mridula Bhatkar ordered Khan’s release on bail of a personal bond of Rs 30,000 and directed the sessions judge in Pune to take up the case and expedite the hearings. “The case is 20 years old. It is to be taken up for hearing immediately. Considering the nature of offence, the facts of the case and the fact that accused was on bail for so many years, I am inclined to grant bail,” said Justice Bhatkar.
 
 The complaint was lodged at Vishrambaug police station on October 7, 1997, by Deepa’s father. Deepa was 17 years and 11 months old—one month short of turning an adult and marriageable age as per law—when she eloped with Khan. The police booked Khan for kidnap and rape. He was soon traced and arrested by the police. In August 1998, Khan managed to obtain bail and as Deepa had turned 18, they got married. The couple, who got divorced in 2004, have two school-going sons who live with Khan. 
 
 According to the prosecution, the case could not be committed to the sessions court for trial as Khan did not attend the hearings. The magistrate issued non-bailable warrants and declared him an offender. He was nabbed in November 2016. Both the magistrate as well as the sessions court refused to release him on bail, following which he approached the HC.
 
 The HC, while granting Khan bail, directed him to attend all the hearings and restrained him from leaving the country. He has also been asked to furnish to the investigation officer details of his permanent address as well as that of one or two of his relatives in Pune.
 
 
 
 
 SUCH A LONG ORDEAL
 
 Oct 1997: An FIR is lodged by Deepa’s father after she elopes with  . Deepa is 17 years and 11 months old at the time. Sameer is arrested
 
 Aug 1998: Sameer is released on bail
 
 Sept 1998: Sameer marries Deepa and the couple have two sons from the relationship
 
 2004: Sameer and Deepa get divorced
 
 Nov 2016: Sameer is arrested after the magistrate issues non- bailable warrants against him for failing to attend trial
 
 Jan 2017: HC orders Sameer’s release on bail and directs the Pune sessions court to expedite the hearing 
 
 
 
 
 
 
