AHMEDABAD: City crime branch on Saturday nabbed five persons running a   from   to avoid being tracked. After the recent crackdown on con call centres by Thane and Ahmedabad crime branch, they had changed their   This is the first time the crime branch busted a con call centre on wheels.

  Police said they have seized three cars including an SUV and two sedans. “We have also seized nine smartphones from the accused,” said a crime branch official.
 
 Cops were surprised to find that the alleged scamsters were not using laptops or computers, but were operating completely from their smartphones, by downloading “magicJack” application.
 
 “It is easily available on the internet. There are many such applications on android platforms, which are being misused by con call centre operators,” said a crime branch official. The arrested accused include Anuj Giri 25, Deepak Banvari 24, Abhishek Rajput 24, Saurabh Yadav 21 and Vivek alias Vicky Thakur 24, all residents of Vatva. Inspector  , crime branch, said they found that the accused had track record of working in different con call centres and were rendered jobless after the recent crackdown on such call centres by the police. Rajdeepsinh Zala, ACP, crime branch, said they followed a tip off and arrested the accused from Vatva area, while they were making con calls from moving cars. Crime branch officials said that during primary interrogation of the accused it came to light that they were operating on a “payday loan” script and used to get details of   from one Nikhil Ravani of Ahmedabad.
 
 The accused used to park their cars at silent locations in the night and call up victims. “They first used to blast bulk SMSs to the numbers obtained from Ravani and wait for the victim to call back. Once the victim called back, it was a confirmed lead for them,” said a crime branch official. “Expert closers Anuj and Abhishek, would then close the call successfully,” he added. “The accused used the I-Tune gift cards which they got from their victims processed through one Sujit Pandey based in the city,” said a crime branch official.
 
 Payday loan script was their bread and butter
 
 Crime branch officials said Anuj and his accomplices used to call up American citizens during middle of the week and offer them short-term loans to spend during the weekends. “For a loan of 500 dollars they would ask for 80 dollars extra and processing fee. Once the victim agreed to their condition, they would ask the victim to buy an I-Tune gift card and give them the 16-digit card number.”
 
 “The scamsters would then pass on the number to Sujit Pandey who’s task was to get the card redeemed from his contacts in China,” said a crime branch official.
 
 Ran centre under moniker ‘Smith Sudo’
 
 The accused earlier used to operate a con call centre in   near Ayyapa temple in Maninagar under the name  . “However, after the crackdown by cops, they started operating from a moving car” said a crime branch official.
 
 Used to park cars at a silent place
 
 The accused used to go out on roads at night in the cars and find a silent place without background noise, so that the victims felt the call is being made from US itself.
 
