NEW DELHI: In a surprise move, the Amethi administration has sent a letter to the district   chief requesting that Congress vice-president and Amethi MP   reschedule his proposed October 4-6 visit to the constituency.

 Calling the appeal “politically motivated”, Congress insisted that the visit would go ahead.
 
  UP chief Mahendra Pandey said his party had nothing to do with the decision.
 
 “Congress should resolve the issue by talking it out with officials in Amethi,” he said.
 
 According to the letter by district magistrate Yogesh Kumar and superintendent of police Poonam, the festivals of Durga Puja/Dussehra and Muharram extended up to October 5 in many places in Amethi and the police force was occupied with law and order duties. “There will be great inconvenience in maintaining peace and law and order during MP Rahul Gandhi’s tour.
 
 Therefore, it is requested that the tour be rescheduled on any date after October 5,” the letter said.
 
 However, Rahul’s constituency representative Chandrakant Dubey said there would be no change in the Congress vice-president’s trip. “The letter smacks of politics,” he said.
 
 Congress spokesman  , questioning the Amethi district administration’s request to Rahul Gandhi to postpone his trip, said, “All the festivals cited by the administration have ended. And did not PM Modi visit Varanasi during Navratri and Durga Puja? You cannot stop an MP from visiting his family, that is his people.”
 
 According to the Congress functionary, there was politics in the DM’s letter. “Wherever Rahul is going, he is exposing   governments. That is what they fear. BJP chief   and Union minister Smriti Irani are also visiting Amethi after a few days.”
 
 Singh said Rahul had told district administrations that they should provide minimum police force for his trips, like when he visited Gorakhpur in the wake of death of children at BRD Medical College, which also came in the middle of floods.
 
 “The Uttar Pradesh government is worried and does not want Rahul to visit Amethi, fearing he might raise issues directly related to the public. This scares the BJP,” he claimed.
 
 However, BJP dismissed the accusation. “It is the district collector who has made such a request. Officials might be busy with managing the festival season but why this uproar? It’s only about some time," UP health minister Sidharth Nath Singh said. He added that the district administration would be aware of the local situation and made the request, which should not be turned into a political issue.
 
 
