COIMBATORE: Every second student who took the Class XII state board examination in 2017 belonged to one of the science streams. While science subjects continue to remain prominent among the choices of students entering higher secondary this year, schools and experts say there is an increasing interest for commerce and arts as well. 

 The range of employment opportunities and increasing awareness about career options in the field of arts are the reasons for this shift, say experts. President of the   Private Schools Association R Visalakshi said she had been witnessing this trend since the last two years. 
 
 “Those students who are in dilemma to choose the second group - mathematics, physics, chemistry and biology - are now looking at arts and commerce as an option. Only those students who are genuinely interested in taking up the national eligibility-cum-entrance test ( ) or agriculture choose the second group,” she said. 
 
 Academicians feel that the increasing awareness about the avenues in commerce fields has made students choose commerce group in Class XI. “Even today some parents push their children to choose either first or second group that comprises mathematics and science. But with growing awareness, I have seen many parents allowing their children to opt for the group of their interest,” said the state president of Tamil Nadu High and Higher Secondary Schools Headmasters’ Association, Samy Sathiyamoorthy. 
 
 The growing need for chartered accountants, company secretaries and other professionals in the field of commerce are a reason for some students to choose commerce. “One can pursue  , company secretaryship, chartered accountancy, law, media studies, literature, fashion designing and many others. There are also many job opportunities in these fields today,” said educationists J P Gandhi. 
 
 Another factor is affordability. “A student of the science group takes up private tuitions for his school syllabus and coaching for competitive exams like JEE and NEET. The fee for such private coaching is as high as Rs1.5lakh per year,” said Gandhi. 
 
 In the last three years, the number of centums in commerce subjects has been on a rise, analysis shows. This gives aspirants a motivation to get into top arts and science colleges in the state. 
 
 Besides top colleges, candidates now also have opportunities in private deemed universities. “We started the faculty of science and humanities with 25 students 10 years ago. Today, there are 4,000 students. The course duration is three years and employment opportunities are high (98%),” said the director of faculty of science and humanities,  , R Balasubramaniam. “The highest salary package for a BCom graduate is Rs 9 lakh per annum,” he added. 
 
