PriyankaSingh@timesgroup.com

 Lucknow: After a wait of over one year, the AAI ( ) Board has given its nod to the long pending design of Chaudhary Charan Singh Airport metro station. This is the last   on the 23km North-South Corridor starting from Munshipulia to airport covering 22 stations in all. It will be an underground station around 100 metres away from the main airport building.
 
 LMRC sources told TOI, “This is a significant development for completion of first phase of metro project as we had been trying for approval for the past one year. The board has agreed to our design and would soon be dispatching its official letter to us.” Meanwhile,   Rail Corporation has already issued tender of CCS Airport Metro Station worth around Rs 300 crore last week. 
 
 Daljeet Singh, director Infrastructure and works LMRC said, “By the time we get the letter from AAI, we would have appointed contractor for the airport stretch. The last day for receiving bids is March 20. Since it is an international competitive bid and the contractor has to qualify on technical as well as financial grounds, selection and awarding of contract may take some time. We expect the work on airport metro station to begin in June.”
 
 The contract includes detailed designing and construction of about 700 metre long airport stretch, which comprises a 250-metre station and 450-metre underground ramp. Airport station will be an underground structure with two floors—concourse and platform. The station would have two entry points—one from tje international terminal (T1) and the other from domestic terminal (T3). This station will be built on about 5,000 Sq mt area. 
 
 AAI has, however, put a rider on the approval saying LMRC will have to pay some cost for permanent ownership of airport land. LMRC officials claim that in Chennai Metro, the team didn’t pay for land but agreed on revenue sharing model where whatever revenue was generated on the station’s premises through advertising or kiosks was shared with AAI. 
 
 “We had requested AAI to give us land in Lucknow on the same pattern but AAI cited a recent case of Kolkata Metro, in which they have taken cost for land and the same would be adopted in Lucknow Metro,” said an official. Earlier, AAI had turned down LMRC’s design of airport station twice, once when LMRC proposed elevated station and the second time when it wished to make the station 50 metres away from the airport for   reasons. 
 
 
