CHANDIGARH: The   (MCI) has objected to the intake of three   students in   and Hospital ( ), Sector 32, last year, asking why they cannot be ‘discharged’ as they do not qualify the  .

 The college is supposed to send the reply immediately.
 
 This is the first time a government medical college is under scanner of the MCI for admitting NRI students without abiding by its rules.
 
 “We have got the letter from the MCI. We are looking into it. We want to understand the depth of the issue. Both the academic registrar and I am new and were not present during the admissions last year,” said Dr A K Janmeja, holding the additional charge of GMCH director-principal.
 
 Sources in the MCI said the admission had raised eyebrows as the students were admitted not on the basis of any entrance exam in 2016.
 
 Last year, the medical college had conducted National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET), a common entrance exam for all students except the NRIs. It was also mentioned in the prospectus that the NRI bonafide students will be exempted from the exams and selected on the basis of Class XII exams conducted by the   (CBSE). “The Supreme Court had made NEET mandatory in all the medical colleges. However, there was an ordinance issued by the government thereafter that government medical colleges can have the flexibility of conducting NEET for all seats (general or reserved). There might be some confusion about this, leading to the MCI objection,” said a faculty member at GMCH.
 
 In 2016, it was mentioned in the NEET UG notification that all state government quota seats, where the state opts for NEET, have to be filled through it. “The retrospective effect of cancelling seats of students admitted in 2016 will not only affect these students but also those three general category students who would have got the MBBS seat that year, had these seats been converted to general category. The criteria for admission is always clearly mentioned in the admission brochure for that year. Under no circumstance should the eligibility criteria be circumvented. People responsible for scrutinizing the documents and candidates cannot afford to make any errors,” said Dr Arvind Goyal, a NEET trainer.
 
