MUMBAI: The Bombay high court on Monday rejected the pre-arrest bail plea of Congress   Jaykumar Gore, who has been accused by a woman of sending her “lewd” messages and videos on her mobile phone. 

 “Prima facie, the accused has committed an illegal offence and custodial interrogation is required to find details of cellphones used,” said Justice Mridula Bhatkar while dismissing the anticipatory bail application. A plea by Gore’s lawyers seeking time for him to surrender was refused too. “When (the alleged crime) concerns a public servant or the police, this court takes a serious view. Considering the nature of the crime, this court is not inclined to granting time,” added the judge.
 
 The woman had lodged the complaint against Gore who represents the Man constituency in   district in November 2016. According to the complaint, the woman had approached Gore concerning some work. He allegedly began to send her “vulgar and obscene” messages and images. She approached the police and filed a complaint. They registered a case against Gore under the Indian Penal Code sections for  , stalking, insulting the modesty of a woman and provisions of the stringent Information Technology Act. Gore, whose application for a pre-arrest bail was dismissed by the sessions court, moved high court.
 
 Additional public prosecutor Arfan Sait told the court that three handsets used to send messages were seized. Since the phones allegedly used by the MLA were registered under names of different persons, cops wanted to interrogate him to find out their identities. The prosecutor also said there were nine criminal cases registered against Gore in Satara. Advocate Harshad Ponda, counsel for Gore, contended that only three of the cases were pending and he was acquitted in the others. Gore’s lawyers also claimed the images would not fall under the definition of transmitting “sexually explicit” images under the IT Act. The judge rejected the plea and said the offending images need not always be direct, they could also be implied.
 
 
