AHMEDABAD: In what is explained as a way to deal with increasingly frequent assaults on police personnel, police officials resorted to the “Saurashtra” way of dealing with the problem.   police at noon on Friday tied three accused persons together and paraded them in public for an hour. 

 Police said this was to teach the accused a lesson by publicly shaming them in the area where they are a menace. Police alleged the three men were involved in an assault on four policemen, who were attempting to arrest bootlegger sisters Parsis and Marsis on February 1. 
 
  Hundreds of locals gathered on the road to watch the accused paraded through the streets with hands folded and made to do sit-ups at regular intervals. The incident was reminiscent of the public shaming of accused that used to be common some 30 years ago.
 
 Half-an-hour into the parade, family members of the men being paraded gathered at Gaekwad Haveli police station and shouted slogans against the police. The cops then made them leave the premises.
 
 Rajkot police had recently paraded several history-sheeters. Some of them have gone to court over the public humiliation they were put through.
 
 According to inspector V A Rathava of Gaekwad Haveli police station, five accused were arrested for assaulting policemen on February 1, 2017. “Of the five, Nasirkhan Pathan, Bhupendra Kahar and Ravi Kahar were paraded through the streets of Raikhad from Khamasa police chowky to where they live,” added Rathava.
 
 Rathava added that the accused worked for two bootleggers sisters, Parsis and Marsis, who are on the run. “Their accomplices Kamla alias Kali and   Pathan were also arrested,” Rathava added.
 
 On February 1, Lok Rakshak jawans Mitesh Bharwad, Anubhav Tejbahadur, Jagdish Chothabha and Surendrasinh Amrutsinh were attacked by the bootlegger sisters and their men Samir, Ravi, Lalo and Ashrafkhan when they went to arrest the sisters at Sultan Flats in Raikhad, on orders of PSI S D Kalara. The cops were beaten with their own lathis.
 
 Rathva added that the accused openly threatened cops. “They said the cops were no match for them as they had not allowed agencies like city crime branch and PCB to lay hands on them. They needed to be taught a lesson,” added Rathava.
 
 
