NEW DELHI: Prime Minister   on Monday lashed out at Akhilesh Yadav-led government in Uttar Pradesh for being anti-farmer and having failed to implement the central government's schemes meant for state farmers.

 "There is a government in Uttar Pradesh which has nothing to do with development. This government is anti-farmer. Why is it that farmers don't benefit from the Fasal Bima Yojana? Why they don't help farmers in distress," Modi said addressing an election rally at Rohaniya area of his parliamentary constituency Varanasi.
 
 PM Modi also accused the Samajwadi Party-ruled state government of discriminating when it comes to employment or implementation of schemes.
 
 "Does any honest youth get employment in Uttar Pradesh?" Modi asked the crowd, saying "There is discrimination by the government. They see who is their own and who is not. In employment, the state government is cheating the youth of the state."
 
 The Prime Minister also highlighted central government schemes, especially those for farmers, youth and women and said there was need to change the future of farmers.
 
 He urged the people to vote for the Bharatiya Janata Party for a better future for the state and to "rid it of misrule" of SP, Bahujan Samaj Party and  .
 
 "It is time to think about welfare of our youth so they prosper," Modi said.
 
 Yesterday, the Prime Minister attacked Congress, Samajwadi Party and the Bahujan Samaj Party after he concluded his roadshow. Modi also addressed a public rally in Mahatma Gandhi Kashi Vidyapith in Varanasi where he said, “Samajwadi Party, BSP and Congress Party believe in ‘kuch ka saath kuch ka vikas‘. Whereas BJP’s principle of governance is ‘sabka saath sabka vikas’.
 
 Meanwhile, Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi has called Prime Minister Narendra Modi a 'buzurg' (an old man) in the same city.
 
 Rahul, while addressing a rally on the last day of election campaign for Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls, slammed the Prime Minsiter for making false promises with the people of the state.
 
 "We will form a government of young people (in Uttar Pradesh). Age has caught up with Modi. He has become an old man. Age is showing (impact) on him," Rahul said.
 
 (With Agencies)
 
