HYDERABAD: Justice A   of the   on Tuesday directed the special investigation team of the excise department that is probing the drug scandal not to collect samples of blood, nails and hair from Tollywood actress   against her will. The quizzing too should happen only between 10 am and 5 pm and not beyond that. 

 Since she was called in as only a witness, the need for a lawyer accompanying her is not necessary and hence the plea for the presence of a lawyer was rejected. The judge also directed the excise department officials to ensure the presence of women investigators while recording the statement of the actress. "If you feel the questioning is incomplete, call her the next day instead of prolonging the quizzing session late into the night," the judge told the probe team. 
 
 The judge pronounced this order after hearing arguments in the case filed by Charmee seeking legal protection to her when facing the drug probe team on July 26. 
 
 Citing the experiences of the actors who were earlier questioned by the probe team, her counsel   expressed apprehension that the investigators may resort to forcible methods and may collect samples of her blood, hair and nails through coercion which impinges her rights, reputation and privacy and also her future career prospects.
 
 Telangana state counsel   told the court that the probe team has called her only as a witness.
 
 "If she is not interested in giving her blood samples, we will not take it from her. Yesterday, actor Navadeep refused and we did not collect samples of him. Our target is to make Hyderabad drug-free. We want to destroy the backbone of the drug supply chain and peddllers who are damaging the social fabric of the society by making bright children into drug addicts. We don't want drug menace in our state. 
 
 Crores of rupees are being infused into the trade by the drug mafia. Should we not protect our children from this mafia. We do not have anything against this actress. We will follow the law of the land while recording her statement", Sarat Kumar said.
 
 Citing the experiences of the actors who were earlier questioned by the probe team, her counsel Vishnuvardhan Reddy expressed apprehension that the investigators may resort to forcible methods and may collect samples of her blood, hair and nails through coercion which impinges her rights, reputation and privacy and also her future career prospects. 
 
 Telangana state counsel Sarat Kumar told the court that the probe team has called her only as a witness. “If she is notinterested in giving her blood samples, we will not take it from her. Yesterday, actor Navadeep refused and we did not collect samples of him. “Our targetis to make Hyderabad drug-free. We want to destroy the backbone of the drug supply chain and peddllers who are damaging the social fabric of the society by making bright children into drug addicts. 
 
 “We don’t want drug menace in our state. Crores of rupees are being infused into the trade by the drug mafia. Should we not protect our children from this mafia. “We do not have anything against this actress. We will follow the law of the land while recording her statement,” Sarat said. This drug mafia is bringing narcotic substances to schools in the form of chocolates, biscuits and cool drinks, he added. Can we allow Hyderabad to become a Mumbai, he sought to know.
 
