VADODARA: Four Amul parlours, which were running on lease on the space allocated by the   ( ). were brought down on Sunday. 

 The allocation of space in VMC gardens for the parlours had recently stirred a controversy at the corporation. 
 
 It was in January that the standing committee had decided to cancel the lease of the outlets but after VMC had failed to take any action against the parlours, the opposition in the civic body had threatened to launch an agitation. 
 
 In all, 21 such outlets were given space by the VMC at its various gardens at an annual lease of Rs 85,800 with an escalation of 10 per cent per annum. A series of other conditions were put for the parlours and Rs one lakh deposit was taken for each of these.
 
 The civic body decided to review the lease when a proposal of extending the lease of two such parlours of the Baroda Dairy at Vadiwadi and railway station areas came up. 
 
 It was also decided to terminate the current lease in wake of a series of issues including the low lease amount on prime locations. 
 
 While the lease was given in the name of providing facilities to users of gardens at several locations, the parlours were actually facing the main roads with the gardens in their rear side.
 
 Sources said that the other irregularities included the fact that no formal lease agreement was signed with the parlours and that they did not take any building permission. The parlours were to be temporary structures, but ended up being permanent constructions.
 
 On Sunday, vendors who taken the parlours on lease themselves vacated the parlours at Khanderao market, Alkapuri, Badamdibaug and at Hirakbaug in railway station area following which the structures were razed by VMC’s demolition team. 
 
 In another drive, demolition teams of VMC also cleared encroachments from the middle of the road at Delux crossroads on the Fatehgunj – Nizampura main road. 
 
 “There were 14 illegal shops on the crossroads which have been demolished,” said VMC’s director (encroachment removal and security) Dr  , adding that ten JCBs were used during the razing drive. 
 
 
