KOLKATA:  , noted economist and a professor of economics at University of California, Berkeley, took a dig at political interference in educational institutions of the state. A system, even though it sounds Utopian, should be insulated from political and bureaucratic interferences if it is striving for a complete overhaul, he felt.

 Present at an interactive session during the   bicentenary celebrations, Bardhan started speaking on higher education in India, envisioning the complete overhaul. The economist pointed out at a statement made by Bengal’s education minister   who had earlier said that the state controls teachers since they pay them salaries. “This is an absurd statement from an education minister. Political interference is a major problem for the higher education in the country,” he said.
 
 Bardhan’s statement was a continuation of several examples he had brought forward pointing at political and bureaucratic interference in the educational system. “There should be no involvement of politicians, bureaucrats or regulators in the personnel selection. Neither in the appointment of someone like a college principal or vice-chancellor, nor any college faculty. This is the key to success for the universities,” he said.
 
 Presidency University VC  , who was among the audience, took an exception. “I disagree with what you have said. It might be possible in some other university in some other state, but not in Bengal,” she said.
 
 But Bardhan stuck to his point and said that his comment is not specific to any particular state but applies to the country in general. He alleged that politicians in the state are trying to control the education system starting right from admission. “Politicians and bureaucrats should be kept away from the academic institutions. The institutions are answerable to legislators regarding their finances only,” he said. “Politicians may justify their interference, but they cannot decide on what a good degree is and what is not,” he said claiming that politicians, bureaucrats and mediocre faculty can pull down the quality of education. Bardhan also suggested there should be an independent audit of the institutions every three years.
 
 According to him, what is important is the quality of equal opportunity to everybody, but that does not mean the quality of outcome should be sacrificed. He also asked the states to focus more on institutes with more vocational skills.
 
 
