LUCKNOW: Taking a cue from  ,  , UP government has now initiated the process of forming a separate entity out of  , the   Though the exact modalities of the role of the corporation is being worked out, the process has been initiated to ensure construction and maintenance of major roads, bypass, etc. 

 The proposal came up for discussion during the review meeting by deputy chief minister and PWD Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya. Confirming that the process to form UP Road Development Corporation was on, PWD engineer-in-chief Vijay Kumar Singh said before the corporation takes shape, it would have to cleared by principal secretary PWD and the UP cabinet. 
 
 It was made clear during the review meeting that for construction of major roads and bypass, widening and strengthening of roads with the use of latest technology and equipment, process to form UP Road Development Corporation was being on. 
 
 UP Road Development Corporation would be very much on the lines of UP Industrial Development Authority, said sources and added that if everything went as per plan, the former would also come up as a construction agency and pursue for work contracts with Union Surface Transport Corporation. UP Bridge Corporation has technical expertise for constructing bridges and has also been undertaking global tenders, especially in middle-east. 
 
 The road corporation is being conceptualised on the lines of the entity in other states, a department insider told TOI. 
 
 A proposal to cut down the span for maintenance of roads under   is also being prepared, said sources and added that renovation of rural roads as of now is done after a gap of eight years from the time of its construction. As per the new proposal, however, road renovation work would be undertaken after five years. 
 
 UP government has also begun initiatives to recover Rs 619 crore under Central Road Fund for the past fiscal of 2016-17 as the amount got stuck due to non-availability of utility certificate. Yogi government would ensure funds come back to UP once the utility certificate is given to Centre.
 
 
