LUCKNOW: It is not just   that had a  . The entire campus seems to be sleeping on its safety. Taking a cue from Saturday’s fire incident, TOI conducted a reality check of different parts of the university’s premises and found that a number of   dealing with direct patient care were bereft of fully functional systems that could be used in case of a fire emergency. 

 Barely two months ago, on May 13, the sleep lab at KGMU’s physiology department had caught fire. Though it was doused well in time, a massive cloud of smoke was the signal of the incident and not the alarm. At the time of that incident, the administration had been apprised by the fire safety department to take adequate precautions against fire, given several such incidents in the past. 
 
 On Sunday, just outside Trauma Centre, the water hydrant cubicles were empty with no water system or pipe in sight. In Gandhi Ward, the fire alarms were non-functional. The fire alarm system itself was shut and the pipe attached to the wall was covered in cobwebs. 
 
 A staff member in the ward said, “The fire alarm system does not work. The work never got completed and was left midway.” 
 
 Gandhi Ward had no water sprinklers either and alarms only remained showpieces. The same was the case in Shatabdi hospital building, where fire-fighting system with the water pipe was under lock and key. There were no fire extinguishers in the long corridors of the hospital. 
 
 When TOI contacted chief fire officer AB Pandey, he said, “A normal fire alarm system in working condition should blink at an interval of every 30 to 40 seconds.” 
 
 After conducting an inspection of the campus, he said, “No fire alarm or fire safety system in   is in working condition.” Commissioner of Lucknow division Anil Garg said, “There is a definite fault in the fire safety system of KGMU.” 
 
 Water hydrants outside the paediatric surgery ward doubled as dustbins with garbage dumped inside the cubicle. The Trauma Centre building itself had its emergency channels locked. The only emergency exit was on the first floor, while the building is four-floors high. 
 
 
