The standard   at the home of my maternal grandparents in Bareilly was chunki hui matar, green peas sautéed in hing with a hint of ghee, topped with bits of fried, lightly salted cashews to add crunch and alter the mushy texture and the sweet taste of the peas.

 It was a solid, wholesome breakfast that instantly warmed us, gave us a burst of energy with carbs, good fats and some protein. I remember it with obvious nostalgia but also because the simple meal showed us two of the most important things about traditional Indian cooking. One, the idea of constructing dishes by layering contrasting flavours and textures. The other, the idea of following a seasonal diet and using ingredients specific to that time of the year and region.
 
 The latter has now got lost in the time of Masterchef-influenced plates and palates. But till about two-three decades ago, before modern food retail and the media explosion changed food habits, seasonality was at the cornerstone of our cooking and eating.
 
 Matar, fresh green peas, was a winter delicacy. The idea was to get the peas so tender that they could be sautéed whole, pod and all, and eaten in pretty much the same way that we now eat the Japanese edamame (nothing, but a fancy name for young soya bean), in fashionable restaurants. In fact, chef Manish Mehrotra of Indian Accent, arguably India’s best-known restaurant brand, in a private conversation some time ago remembered this way of sautéing garden peas that must have been common even in his Patna home and asked rhetorically why indeed could modern Indian restaurants not serve that as a snack lightly dusted with Himalayan rock salt.
 
 One of the most heartening restaurant trends at the moment seems to be the increased interest on part of India’s top and/or celebrity chefs to work with seasonal and local produce. However, mass consumers don’t have easy access to seasonal produce of a certain quality. The best, sweetest green peas, for instance, now come from Jaipur. And while restaurants may be in a position to fly these in, individual consumers are not.
 
 If availability is an issue, so are globalised palates. Many of our traditional winter greens and roots have been relegated to nostalgia. Even if we do come across things like bathua (pig weed, a cousin of the amaranth; another winter favourite of my family), or moringa/drumsticks flowers (they appear only for a few weeks at this time of the year and have been traditionally used in cuisines as varied as Sindhi and Bengali), or parsnips, the odds are that many of us may not even recognise them.
 
 One such disappearing winter classic is the Shabdeg. A complex meat stew cooked with turnips that are available in this season. The one-pot dish, traditionally cooked overnight in earthenware in makeshift earth ovens, is supposed to have originated in Kashmir. But it is also a classic in the cuisines of Avadh and Dilli due to migration and the consequent evolution of foods. Like with most of the subcontinent’s dishes, there are several versions of the shabdeg even though the basic meat-with-turnips structure remains. Some recipes add mince kofte to the dish; the old Delhi one I know adds vegetables such as carrots, parsnips and seasonal greens to the hot pot. It’s a dish that you hardly ever come across now. Even the most traditional homes today do a simpler shalgam-meat curry, similar but not quite the same. Cooking meats with local seasonal vegetables, of course, also underlines the syncretic food tradition in India.
 
 Nihari-kulcha – a winter breakfast – evolved in Shahjahanabad as a way not just to fill up the poor man’s stomach but apparently also to ward off the cold. That is why the stew is laced with the warmth- generating pepper and other spices. But the real diversity of Indian cuisines reflects in the fact that there are breakfasts from the same region, which are quite the opposite of such heartiness.
 
 
  
 
 
 Daulat ki chaat or nimish as it is called in Lucknow could easily compete for the title of the world’s lightest soufflé. It’s an ethereal dessert made only on winter mornings from the foam collected from milk, ostensibly whisked overnight. Like all stories around milk puddings in India, the milk must have been slowly cooked, thickened and whisked only on a full moon night for best results. The romance of that can only add to the taste, I suppose.
 
 When it comes to winter desserts, however, you can’t take away the halwa from the subcontinent. In fact, the generic term halwai — for dessert cook; patissier in another culture, comes from “halwa”. However much we may think of gajar ka halwa or sooji ka halwa as “originally” or “authentically” Indian, the halwa has Turkish, central Asian origins, where it referred to three types of confections originally made from wheat, vegetables or nut oils. In India, we have the semolina halwa and vegetable-based ones like gajar ka halwa that are now our pop-dishes. But some wheat-based halwas show up the link with their central Asian origins.
 
 Sohan halwa, another disappearing winter classic, ostensibly came about in Multan from where it travelled to Mughal Delhi and was famously sold at Ghantewalla, the iconic sweet shop that downed its shutters last year. Other establishments like Kipps in Bareilly (frequented by my grandparents) continue to sell stellar versions. The dense, ghee laden, nuts-studded halwa may remind you of the nougat or the torrone in Italian. The torrone is a confection of sugar, nuts and egg whites. However, it also traces its origin to the dense Turkish wheat halva. Substract the egg white, add the ghee and you get the sohan halwa; our winter link to a wider world.
 
