LUCKNOW: Barely over a month-old,   was clinging to her   when she was first taken to   on Wednesday morning.On the second visit to the   on the same day , her body was lying in her mother's lap, her death shrouded in mystery . The infant from Aliganj died within two hours of being vaccinated under routine immunisation at the women's hospital.

 Her family claimed the infant died because of the vaccine and its administering by an untrained professional, while health department officials accused the family of negligence. Health department also claimed to have sealed batches of three vaccines administered to the infant and wrote to police to conduct a post mortem to verify the cause of death.
 
 At 11.15am on Wednesday , Aradhika was brought to the hospital for first doze of oral polio virus vaccine (OPV), inactivated polio vaccine (IPV) and the pentavalent vaccine.The child's name was registered in the out patient department.
 
 “The parents had not even reached their house, when they noticed blood oozing out of the infant's nose and rushed back to the hospital. Her feet had also turned blue,“ said Gautam, the child's uncle.
 
 “When we came to the hospital at 12.45pm, doctors examined her and declared her dead. When we complained that an untrained person had vaccinated the child, they blamed us for not taking proper care,“ said Gautam.
 
 Personnel from Wazirganj police station and chief medical officer (CMO) Dr G S Bajpai were informed. “We have sealed the vaccine batch. The Adverse Effects After Immunization committee will meet on Thursday and a decision on sending the vaccine to Kasauli for lab test,“ said the CMO, adding that the death had nothing to do with the vaccine.
 
 “Seventeen other kids were given the OPV vaccines, 29 others were given the IPV and nine others were given the pentavalent on Wednesday but all are healthy . The death occurred perhaps due to `aspiration', a medical condition in which food or liquid goes down the trachea to the lungs instead of being ingested through the food pipe. They must have fed her improperly,“ he said.
 
 “The vaccine was not administered by a layman and only trained professionals conduct the process at the centre,“ he added.
 
