CHENNAI: In 'Pursuit of Justice', Robert Francis Kennedy says, “Every society gets the kind of criminal it deserves.

 What is equally true is that every community gets the kind of law enforcement it insists on.“
 
 Around 50 years and modern jurisprudence's scores of debates on crime and punishments later, truth still remains a chimera. In Chennai, however, activists and jurists remain unanimous that accused get away with relatively lighter punishment, especially in crimes against children.
 
 Since the   (Pocso) Act was promulgated in 2012, the special court in Chennai district has not sentenced a single accused, even in cases of heinous crimes, to the maximum punishment of life term. “This is in contrast to other states or district courts in Tamil Nadu, which invoke the maximum punishment for similar crimes,“ says Sherin Bosko of NGO Nakshatra, referring to a verdict of an Erode district mahila court, which in December 2016 sentenced a 36-year-old man to double life imprisonment for raping and impregnating a minor.
 
 Last week, TOI had reported a 45-year-old autorickshaw driver had got 10 years jail under Pocso for raping and impregnating his 16-year-old niece. The minor later gave birth to a boy as she was not allowed to abort under the Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act, 1971. “This was a fit case for awarding life imprisonment,“ says Bosko, adding, “The accused coming out of prison in less the 10 years can pose a threat to other children.“
 
 Lawyer   feels courts sometimes pass orders without going into the merits of a case.“Mercy and leniency in awarding sentences to child rape convicts cannot be allowed,“ he says. Sometimes police too contribute to mitigation of charges against the accused when there are delays in completion of investigation or witnesses are not provided protection, says Kannadasan. The lawyer also refers to cases where the accused have been acquitted because of the victim turning hostile. But it is not end of the road for such cases, the lawyer points out. According to the precedent established by the  , the court can revisit other evidence to frame charges against the accused. It is up to the court to dig deeper.
 
 The absence of stringent punishment could make light of gravity of the crime. “Any sentence must have a deterrent effect. The guiding principle in sentencing is that the 'punishment must fit the crime'. If the penalty awarded is not stringent enough, it may send a wrong message. It may end up being a double whammy . Mild punishment may embolden others and also not stop repeat offenders in their tracks,“ says advocate  .
 
 Advocate Sudha Ramalingam says punishment should be for reformation. “The nature of crimes reported may not have warranted life imprisonment or the accused could have also engaged better lawyers. It finally boils down to the prosecution's evidence and how well the facts are presented.“
 
