PUNE: A sessions court here has rejected the anticipatory bail plea of a businessman who allegedly robbed a prominent realtor of Rs 35 lakh and collected a Rs 3.5 crore cheque at gunpoint after barging into his house with an accomplice.

 A failed foreign investment transaction involving the use of a bank account in Singapore led to the alleged crime.
 
 On May 2, the Bombay high court granted an interim protection against the arrest of one of these suspects, who preferred an appeal against the trial court's decision to reject his pre-arrest bail plea. The high court has posted the matter for next hearing on June 6.
 
 The other suspect filed an anticipatory bail plea through lawyer  , arguing the allegations were false. However, the prosecution opposed his plea, saying that the (bail) applicant's name is mentioned in the FIR. The applicant and the co-accused divided Rs 21 lakh taken from the complainant among themselves. The Rs 3.5 crore cheque is yet to be recovered. The pistol used in the crime and the car used to reach the realtor's home is also yet to be seized. Additional sessions judge M R   referred to the police's case papers and the evidence on record, and held on May 15 that there was prima facie material for rejecting the anticipatory bail plea. “Transaction of Rs 21 lakh took place and the amount was distributed between the applicant and the co-accused,“ the court said.
 
 “There is prima facie aver ment that a pistol has been used for threatening. The applicant and the co-accused also took away the keys of the complainant's office. The cash amount, office keys and the disputed cheque are yet to be recovered.Even a foreign account of Singapore appears to be involved.To unearth the crime, presence of the applicant with the investigating officer appears to be necessary . If the applicant is insulated with the protection then investigation may not be so effective,“ the court said.
 
 Chorge told TOI, “We will move an appeal in the high court considering that the co-accused has been granted an interim protection till June 6.“
 
 Yerawada police inspector (crime)   said, “Our search for the suspect is on and we will arrest him unless he secures a protection from the HC as has happened in the case of the co-accused.“
 
