In Western countries pedestrians are considered to be the king of the road. But unfortunately that is not the case in India,” says  , DCP (Deputy Commissioner of police) Traffic. If the data revealed by the DCP Traffic is anything to go by, out of every 100 casualties in city’s road accidents, 35 to 40 per cent are pedestrians. Staggering isn’t it? Last year, as many as 469 pedestrian deaths were recorded in the city. Of these, 290 casualties took place in Cyberabad and 1,516 people were injured. In Hyderabad limits, the count stood at 179 deaths and 810 injured. It would be stating the obvious to say that Hyderabad is no country for pedestrians. 
The problem lies in the civic planning say experts and city folk lamenting about how the roads here are built without keeping in mind the safety of pedestrians. “I’m concerned about the complete lack of planning in civic infrastructure in the city. The roads are made only for the vehicles. Finding proper footpaths in the city is a luxury for pedestrians,” rues Aayush Mallik, a law student of  .
 
 
 
  As per the traffic data, there are about 6000 kilometers of footpaths across Hyderabad. But almost 90 per cent of them are not suited for walking because of the lack continuity. Especially in developing areas like Gachibowli, Madhapur and Hitec City, vendors and hawkers occupy the footpaths leaving no options for the pedestrian but to walk on the roads laden with heavy traffic.
 “Walking on small roads in the city is a nightmare. Forget about walking, the way some people park their vehicles, even two cars can’t pass through them at one go. Sometimes cars come in opposite directions without following even the basic traffic rules,” says Eswar Gudimetla, a student.
 
 
 Another problem is the encroachment of footpaths. Especially in developing areas such as Gachibowli, Madhapur and Hitec City, vendors and hawkers occupy the footpaths leaving no options for the pedestrians but to walk on the roads laden with heavy traffic.
 “Encroachment of footpaths by vendors, hawkers and vehicles being parked on the footpaths are a serious problem. And the pedestrians, who are giving carbon credits to the city, are expected to take foot over bridges. This is ridiculous,” said  , president of  .
 
 
 
 DCP Ranganath agreed that Hyderabad doesn’t have planned and functional pedestrian crossings. “Unlike in the Western countries, pedestrians cross the road at will in the city. In places like London, New York or any other city, people only cross the road using zebra crossings,” said Ranganath adding “Lack of concern for the pedestrians from those behind the wheels is another aspect to the problem”.
 Take the busy Begumpet flyover road for instance. Crossing it is a nightmare at any time of the day for the pedestrians because there is neither a zebra crossing nor a footover bridge on either side of the flyover. Highlighting the fact that city roads are also not amicable for the differently abled, Kanthi blames the government and the municipal corporation. “I think the government and the municipal corporation wants the differently-abled denizens to stay at home. Just think about the elderly and young children? How are they expected to cross roads safely without any zebra crossings and footover bridges?” asks Kanthi.
 
 
 
 To make things easier for pedestrians on city roads, the Hyderabad Traffic Police decided to construct footover bridges with lift facility taking into consideration the old and the differently-abled. But the DCP pointed out that ongoing construction of the Hyderabad Metro Rail is proving to be a major hindrance in executing their plans. “When there is a metro rail track being constructed, it is difficult to construct footover bridge alongside at such height,” said Ranganath.
 He also added that they have selected 25 places where footbridges with proper lift facilities are to be developed and have requested the   ( ) for the same. “The request is under consideration and soon it will be sanctioned,” he said.
 
 
 
 The Hyderabad Traffic Police have embarked upon a programme to create more pedestrian crossings in the city. “Recently, we have developed pedestrian crossings at Mehdipatnam with traffic signals called telecom signals; they are introduced for the first time in the city specifically to help the pedestrians. They have to cross when the signal becomes green and vehicles have to stop,” says the DCP.
 But when asked about their functionality, he quickly reveals that even the telecom signals have been unable to solve the problem as neither pedestrians nor motorists are following the rules. “We had to deploy a police constable to make sure the rules are being followed,” he added. 
 
 
 
 The traffic police are also conducting certain awareness programmes to educate the public about traffic rules and have now incorporated them in the school syllabus.
 “People have been talking about pedestrian safety for so long but no concrete steps have been taken so far. It’s good to hear phrases words such as ‘pedestrian safety’, ‘pedestrian infrastructure’ and ‘global city’. But chanting these words alone won’t help,” says Aniruth Singh, a techie from Hyderabad.
 
 
