LUDHIANA: As the Ludhiana municipal corporation has served notices seeking   from all police stations, the police department has decided to request the state government to ask the civic body to charge tax on subsidized rates.

 In the proposal, the police officials will mention why the MC should consider that the tax is to be paid from a government department to the other and the department has never charged even a single rupee while providing security during MC’s demolition drives.
 
 The police department is among the biggest property tax defaulters and it did not clear the property tax even for the single year since 2013-14 till now despite the fact that MC had served regular notices to the department.
 
 The MC has to recover the property tax for main commissioner office in mini secretariat and 28 police stations in the city. Even in the beginning of this financial year, the MC had served a notice to the police commissioner office for clearing their property dues.
 
 Deputy commissioner of police Dhruman Nimbale said, “We are going to write to the state government to give some rebate in the total tax amount. A government department should not be charged tax just like they from the public.”
 
 He said the MC is charging tax on some police stations which are not in use. “Moreover, the MC should give rebate in the tax considering that they provide police force to MC during demolition drives,” Nimbale added.
 
 Rishipal Singh, additional commissioner, MC, said, “Let the police department raise the proposal with the government and we will also examine the same. We will be able to say anything after seeing their proposal in writing.”
 
 The civic officials are also tracing the central jail authorities for the payment of property tax. Last year, the central jail had paid Rs 90 lakh property tax and almost a similar amount is due even for this year. The superintendent of property tax branch   shared that central jail authorities have demanded some time to make payments as they have demanded money from the government.
 
 Box:
 
 The police are not the only government department that has tried to avoid paying the tax. Earlier, the   and   (GLADA) have also refused to clear their tax dues. The civic officials claimed that though LIT and GLADA had enquired about the tax amount, the departments hoped MC to adjust the tax from loan, allocated for development works in the past. 
 
 
