CHENNAI:   shimmered over Grand Southern Trunk Road on Thursday as the   to 5°Celsius above normal in the city's suburbs to touch the   on record for May in 15 years.

 The Met office weather station in Meenambakkam near the airport recorded a high of 43.6°C, a peak it recorded for the month in the suburbs since May 30, 2003, when it documented a maximum of 44.6°C.
 
 The Nungambakkam weather station measured a maximum city temperature of 42.6°C, the highest for May in three years after a Met office recording of 42.8°C on May 24, 2014. The city recorded a minimum temperature of 31.6°C (4°C above normal) on Thursday, in a morning reading just before sunrise. At Meenambakkam, the minimum was 29.9°C, or 2°C above normal.
 
 The Meenambakkam and Nungambakkam weather stations usually record an average difference of 1°C in temperature. Weathermen say differing distances from the sea, and the prevalence of cooling sea breeze close to the shore, account for the variation in mercury levels, with Meenambakkam around 9km from the coast and Nungambakkam only 4km away .
 
 Regional Meteorological Centre former deputy director general Y E A Raj said   ment carried out a study 15 years ago that showed the cooling effect of the sea breeze does affect Meenambakkam, despite its distance from the coast, but only an hour after Nungambakkam experiences the phenomenon.
 
 “There could, however, be some exceptions when Meenambakkam records lower temperatures than Nungambakkam,“ he said.
 
 “Despite the sea breeze setting in at 11.45am on Thursday , 45 minutes earlier than normal, warm advection (a process in which the wind blows from a warm air region to a region of cooler air) countered its effect, causing a sharp rise in temperature,“ Raj said. The penetration of sea breeze de pends on many factors. These include the strength of the breeze, friction caused by obstructions like buildings and wind patterns. “Sea breeze can travel roughly 50km before it loses strength and dissipates,“ Raj said.
 
 Localities in western Chennai, including Avadi, and parts of Tiruvallur experienced a severe heat wave on Thursday , the Met office said.Thiruthani, which is 80km west of the city , recorded a maximum of 45°C, and Vellore 43.2°C, or 4°C above normal.
 
 Chennai and its suburbs are likely to have several hot days next week, with temperatures exceeding 40°C, the Met office said, forecasting generally cloudy skies on Friday .
 
