PUNE: The   against  , which was initiated in the wake of Mhaisal illegal abortion racket, will no longer be restricted to the Sangli district alone.

 The state government has ordered a rapid drive across the state’s rural and urban parts under district collectorate to weed out healthcare units operating without valid registration or licences. The drive will kick off from Wednesday (March 15) and conclude on April 15.
 
 TOI in its report published on March 9 had highlighted how most nursing homes in village Mhaisal and remaining rural parts of Miraj taluka in the Sangli district have been functioning illegally without any supervision and control for last many years.
 
 “We have decided to extend the ambit of the rapid survey by stretching it to the entire state. The objective is to find out every illegal nursing home, hospital, sonography or abortion centre that is running without valid licences and registrations,”  , additional director of the state family welfare bureau, state health department, said.
 
 The rapid survey will be carried out under the district collector of every district. 
 
 “In Pune district, there are 13 talukas along with two municipal corporations. Hence, we have formed 15 teams each comprising officials from revenue department, police and health department and Food and   (FDA). These teams will inspect each and every clinical establishment to identify those operating without valid registration,” Rajendra Muthe, resident deputy collector, said.
 
 As per section three of the Bombay Nursing home Registration Act 1949, it is mandatory for every hospital or nursing home to seek valid registration from the local health authority. The person who is running the hospital or nursing home without licence or registration is punishable under section six of the act that stipulates six months of imprisonment or fine which may extend up to Rs 10,000.
 
 Police and health authorities have started initiating a slew of measures to curb irregularities after the abortion racket allegedly run by homeopath Babasaheb Khidrapure was unearthed in Mhaisal village of Sangli district earlier this month. It was later found that Khidrapure was running the hospital illegally without seeking the mandatory registration.
 
 Moreover, since Maharashtra still follows the age-old Bombay Nursing Home Registration Act 1949 (BNHRA), a doctor here can run a clinic without any licence. Also, he/she can have an operation theatre and perform all sorts of small procedures on a day-care centre basis without seeking registration under any law.
 
