CHANDIGARH: The Chandigarh District Consumer Disputes   directed a prominent chain of resorts to pay Rs 10,000 as compensation for cauing mental agony, physical pain and inconvenience to a   who lost his iPhone at one of its properties in Goa in January 2016.

 The court also ordered the chain to pay another Rs 7,000 as cost of litigation. Swarn Singh, in his complaint, claimed that he became a member of the holiday club in 2014, and booked his holidays from January 19 to 21, 2016, at Emerald Palms, Goa. As per the scheduled programme, he along with his family checked in on January 19, 2016, and he was given a room. As the AC of the said room was not working, he was given another room. Next morning, the complainant tried to find his iPhone 6 and came to know that he had forgotten it in the previous room. 
 
 He immediately contacted the reception and narrated the incident. He also immediately reported a DDR at Colva police station in Goa. Police also searched the room and his luggage, and enquiry was also made from the two housekeeping boys who had cleaned the room. 
 
 Singh gave information to the resort with regard to the loss of the phone, but to no avail. Alleging that the aforesaid acts amounted to deficiency in service and unfair trade practice on part of the resort, he filed a complaint.
 
 In their reply, the chain said the complainant was alleging theft of his mobile phone without any cogent proof. It was stated that it was the duty of the complainant to take care of his belongings, and ensure that all items were transferred to the new room while shifting, despite the fact that the duty staff of the resort assisted the complainant to transfer the luggage.
 
 It said the representatives of the resort extended all cooperation to the complainant and also extended support to the police with regard to the enquiry, so there was no liability on its part. Pleading no deficiency in service or unfair trade practice, the chain of resorts prayed for dismissal of the complaint. It also pointed out that iPhone had a feature for letting the owner track it if it’s lost. 
 
 After going through records, teh commission held that “we feel that as the complainant was not at his hometown, but was enjoying holidays at their premises, the resort was duty-bound to provide him with such tracking system as suggested by them”. “When the trip was pre-scheduled and not all of a sudden, it was their duty, being service providers, to provide a proper room to the complainant and his family members primarily with proper working AC as the family was on a holiday,” it said.
 
 The commission concluded that the company had “failed to perform their duty and they misconducted by not taking any action to prevent the aforesaid incident at their premises. We are of the view that it is the duty of the resort only to engage faithful and honest employees and if any employee of the resort, who is working as an agent of the resort, commits any wrong act, then the company is vicariously liable for such acts (SIC).”
 
