Amidst the ongoing debate whether moviegoers should be reprimanded for not standing up during the National Anthem, which plays before the start of every film, it now seems that even auditoriums and venues which stage plays and other live performances are expected to follow the same. At least that’s what happened last week. Just 30 minutes before the performance of the play ' ' at the   in Bandra, the managers of the venue allegedly caused a pandemonium because they wanted director   to play the   before starting the show. Surprised by the unexpected demand, the director refused to comply because he believed it disturbed the mood of the play.

 “It makes no sense to have the National Anthem playing before live performances,” says Atul. “It’s a strong infringement on our freedom. Everyone should be given a choice whether they want to play it or not. I have nothing against our anthem. But   has very immersive performances and when you play Jana Gana Mana, it creates a nationalistic atmosphere. That’s not necessarily the mood you want to set for your play. The anthem should be played in the right context, at the right place and time. What next? Soon, you will be expected to play it in your house, when you enter office in the morning, or even before you want to make love to your wife!” he exclaims.
 
 
 
 Like Atul, many other artistes are surprised, angered and upset with this new development. Director Rahul da Cunha shares, “The whole idea is so absurd. Till last week, we weren’t even aware of this. I love our anthem and would never not stand up when it’s playing. But why should I have to show my patriotism in a theatre? I think auditorium authorities are demanding it because they are being pressured from above. Either they make it completely official with a Supreme Court ruling or not expect us to oblige at all.” Veteran theatre personality Mahabanoo Mody-Kotwal echoes his sentiments and believes that no one can arbitrarily impose a rule and expect it to be followed unless it’s a written law. “Tomorrow, the management will say, ‘Don’t wear red pants and come to watch plays.’ It’s different if the theatre group wants to play the anthem by choice. If I am asked to do that, I won’t unless it’s a law and within the purview of the Constitution. Due to such constraints, it is becoming increasingly difficult for us to do shows. Also, it disturbs the ambience. I think it’s a very politically motivated move and auditoriums are doing this just to earn brownie points with higher authorities.”
 
 Actor-director   says that unlike cinema halls, which have screens where everything from ads to the anthem can be played, stage shows don’t have that option. “During live performances, we can’t afford to have any distractions. Also, many directors have presets in their plays — where actors perform/sing even as the audience is entering the auditorium — so how can you expect us to play the anthem? It will stifle our creativity.”
 
 
 There are a few venues in the city which play the anthem before live performances. Kamlesh Mota, programme director of Bhartiya Vidya Bhavan, shares that they play it not just before dramas but also other live acts including orchestras, bhajan-kirtans and cultural programmes. “Though we haven’t received any circular from the government, we are doing it out of respect for our nation. I understand when people are coming to be entertained, we can’t forcibly ask them to stand up. But there is an advantage. It creates silence and instills discipline, which helps audiences settle down.” Producer   also propagates it. “At our shows, we have been mandatorily playing the anthem for the past one year. It’s not because we’ve been asked to, but because we want to. If anyone doesn’t want to play the anthem, they shouldn’t work in India. Get out of the country! We need to have a sense of pride.”
 
 Purnima Shah, director of Rangsharda Auditorium, says, “It takes only two minutes. In our auditorium, we have recorded the anthem, so we don’t expect theatre groups to do anything, as our staff does the needful. It’s just a request from our side. In the past, other groups have obliged. If they don’t want to be patriotic, forget it. Personally, I want to do it to promote a social cause. If you can go to a theatre and stand for the anthem, why not in an auditorium? After all, both are places for art and entertainment.”
 
 
 
 Currently, a majority of theatre artistes are unwilling to accept this practice. Director Sunil Shanbag, who is against the National Anthem being forced upon people, be it at cinema halls or auditoriums, says, “This has been going on for a while in many city theatres. But this kind of patriotism shouldn’t be forced upon us. The theatre community needs to express their resistance. So far, it has been confined to movie halls. This seems the work of overzealous theatre managers.” Atul adds, “Even if the courts decide to make this a law, we will fight back. If we sit quietly now, it will all be over.”
 
 
 Prashant Karkare, Director – Legal, Secretarial and Special Projects, NCPA, says that theatre groups can’t be held at ransom to follow the practice, because there isn’t any rule yet. “We haven’t received any circular from the government. A couple of months ago, there was an interim decision taken by the court, but that was for cinemas. We are not aware of any such thing. As of today, it is the call of the theatre group if they willingly want to play the anthem or not.”
 
 
