What if someone told you that there is a better, less painful alternative to   and a ‘sweeter’ (quite literally) one at that?   is one of the latest trends that is making its presence felt online. It is an organic method that uses natural ingredients to gently pull out body hair from the roots. Sugaring is touted to last longer than traditional waxing.

 
 
 Sugaring is an ancient Middle-Eastern method of   that goes back to 1900 BC. It is a treatment of   that uses a combination of sugar, water and lemon heated to a certain temperature to turn it into a golden, mouldable consistency. This malleable golden gel is applied in the opposite direction of hair growth and then pulled off (without the help of any strips) in the direction of hair growth with little jerks, so as to remove the hair from its roots. 
 
 
 
 Both the techniques are different. Waxing is painful because it sticks to your skin and as it pulls hair in the opposite direction of its growth it also pulls your skin and hence the pain. This method also leads to ingrown hair since the hair is pulled in the opposite direction of its growth. Also waxing cannot pull out extremely short hair. Plus, it needs strips. Sugaring is just the opposite of all this.
 
 
 
 Though Mumbai salons have not yet begun using sugaring, we found out that quite a few renowned salon brands are keen on this and are in the process of bringing it to the city. A popular dermatologist, trichologist who runs a well-known brand, says, “We are under talks with a foreign brand regarding this. We plan to introduce sugaring in Mumbai soon. It is a great technique for hair removal, especially for the extra sensitive areas in the body.” An aesthetician from a popular salon chain in the city says, “Our trainers have already learnt sugaring and we will soon be training select staff. In a few months, we will be introducing this method of hair removal especially for the bikini area.”
 
 
 
 The therapist wears a pair of gloves and then takes a table tennis ball-sized sugaring paste. It is orangish caramel in colour and is transparent. The paste is applied in the opposite direction of hair growth and then pulled off in the direction of hair growth.
 
 
 
 Heat two cups sugar, 1/8 cup water and 1/4 cup lemon juice to no more than 240 degrees Fahrenheit temperature. Keep stirring. The mixture (golden brown or dark amber) should be soft enough to use at room temperature.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
