SINGUR: A computer professional’s wife and his 81-year-old father died after their car rammed a stationary truck at Singur on   around 1.30am on Tuesday. Three persons, including the techie   (47), are fighting for their lives at a private hospital. 

 Partha was at the wheel of his Swift Dzire car, driving back home at Panihati after a family holiday at Rajgir. The spot is 1km away from where   MP Abhisek Banerjee was critically injured when a speeding truck collided head-on with his vehicle on October 18 last year. 
 
 A loud bang set off when the car hit the truck, waking up dhaba worker Biswanath Sau of Singur’s Ratanpur locality. He immediately informed the police. A night patrol team reached the spot and took all five in the car to Singur rural hospital. There, Partha’s wife Mita Banerjee, 42, was declared dead on arrival while the techie, his father Chunilal Banerjee, mother Gita (75) and daughter Swagata were taken to Calcutta Medical College Hospital in critical condition. Chunilal succumbed at dawn. The family’s Panihati neighbours rushed to the hospital and arranged to have Partha, his mother and daughter shifted to a private establishment in Kolkata.
 
 Partha, who runs three computer training schools in Rishra, Konnagar and Serampore, decided to make the best of the summer break at the institutes by taking his parents, wife and daughter on a vacation to Rajgir. After the holiday, they set out for home with Partha driving and Mita seated next to him.
 
 The family’s next-door neighbour Subhendu Chatterjee, a psychiatrist, said: “The Banerjees had tossed a joint vacation idea to my family. I could not honour that offer owing to prior engagements. Partha was a brilliant computer professional who ran Yuva computer centres at three locations. He helped many youths find work and was also very popular in our neighbourhood. I was shocked to hear the news of the   and was deeply saddened to claim the bodies of Partha’s wife and father who were keen that we accompany them on their trip to Rajgir.”
 
 Hooghly SP Sukesh Jain said: “It is evident Mita Devi bore the brunt of the impact of the car hitting the truck. We sent her’s and her father-in-law’s body for post-mortem. The three injured are critical.”
 
 
