NEW DELHI: The ministry of home affairs, which deals with India’s internal security, wants to improve everything that has been done on national security, law and order front till now and also examine and evaluate its working style, policy, organisation structure and strategic priorities so that it becomes a 21stcentury ministry.
 
 Above all, it wants to do “agencification” of organisations associated with or under  , so that they have increased capacity and efficiency and are monitored in a better way.
  
 An agencification process is usually adopted in governments for better regulation, autonomy, accountability, and credibility of the organisations.
 
 To achieve all this, the government has constituted a three member committee headed by Professor Ajay Shah of National Institute of Public Finance and Policy (NIPFP), former   chief   and former secretary in government - A K Mangotra (retired IAS officer), who will study everything about MHA including its structure, laws it implements, its finances, coordination and flow of information related to national security and law and order, and challenges country needs to be prepared for etc.
  
 The consultative committee will give its report to the government in six months after talking to all the stakeholders including MHA officials, security forces, investigation agencies under its purview and police. 
 Officials said that based on the findings of the review committee, there could be complete overhaul of functioning of MHA in the near future.
  
 “The motive is to restructure   into a unit which is ready to deal with current and emerging challenges of 21st century. We can no longer work on a model of 70s, 80s or 90s” said an official.
  
 He added that a lot of things related to daily work of MHA still move as it did 17 years ago.
  
 “Subsequently, there are many aspects related to internal security, including flow of secret/classified information, coordination with states, policies related to Jammu and Kashmir, left wing extremists (LWE) affected areas, north eastern states, banning of terror outfits/extremist groups, financial powers, cyber security, etc, which need to be dealt with according to the current scenario,” the officer added.
  
 The terms of reference of the three member committee, accessed by TOI, say that they will “Study and propose methods to increase efficiency of organisations associated with MHA, such as training centers and forensic labs with a view to enhancing their capacity and efficiency as well as enhancing the ministry’s role in facilitating the work of such organisations and monitoring them effectively (such as agencification),” it says.
  
 It adds that the committee will “examine and evaluate the organisation design of ministry of home affairs with respect to its objectives and the laws it is assigned to implement.”
 
 The committee will “study and propose mechanisms to allow senior officials of ministry to exercise better oversight of their areas of work and devote greater time to strategic priorities”, it said.
  
 It will “propose methods to increase coordination and flow of information within departments, particularly with regard to national security and law and order issues”.
 
 The committee will also study ministry’s activities that require stronger legal foundations and propose need for change, study mechanism to allow MHA to engage professional experts flexibly in areas of emergent needs such as cyber security and technological development that may pose risks to internal security, it adds.
 
