NAVI MUMBAI: Kharghar resident Punaya Ram (74) served the country as Territorial   personnel and fought the 1965 and in the 1971 war, but had to fight for 40 years to get the status of an ex-serviceman. He eventually received an ex-servicemen identity card on December 21, 2016. Gunner Punaya Ram served the 103 AD Regiment of the Territorial Army between 1964 and 1976 and after discharge from the Army joined the   (BARC). 

 However, the quest for the status of an ex-serviceman began in 1985 after the BARC refused to consider Ram's service in the Army for seniority in service at the BARC. Ram approached the 103 AD Regiment Territorial Army and also the Sainik Boards from 1985 to 2016 seeking an ex-servicemen status, but was denied the same. 
 
 "I approached the Zilla Sainik Board in Mumbai in 1991 seeking the ex-servicemen status and identity card, but the board denied the same citing that I had served the Territorial Army," said Ram. Later in 2002, he approached the Sainik Board in Bandra. Here again, they refused to grant him ex-serviceman status and stated that only canteen facilities would be provided to him.
 
 "After fighting two wars for the country, I was made to feel like a beggar," Ram points out.
 
 Ram was helped by his son Murugan Punaya (39), who sought information under RTI from various forums and wings of the Ministry of Defence and the Indian Army. After struggling at the Zilla Sainik Boards and the Kendriya Sainik Board, Ram managed to get hold of an ex-servicemen guide book written by Brigadier Sudhir Uppal which stated that a person, who was discharged from the Armed Force of Union before 1979 should be given ex-servicemen status irrespective of whether he was in the Territorial Army or the Army.
 
 Ram wrote mails to defence minister  , who referred the matter to Kendriya Sainik Board and DGR. In 2016, Kalpana Mishra, deputy director of the Directorate General of Resettlement wrote back to him stating that as per a notification issued in 1974, a person who has served the Armed Forces of the Union for a period not less than six months should be considered as ex-serviceman.
 
 Defence PRO Commander Rahul Sinha said, "The service of the personnel had to be verified and thereafter the directive was issued. Unless, he provides proof of the same, it would not be appropriate to comment."
 
