KOLKATA:   charges from   may be back  , but the  ,   and high-networth ‘preferred’ customers need not worry about it. There will be no charges on any number of transactions in private sector   counters as well as ATMs, if you belong to any one of the above categories. In government-run banks like SBI, there will be no bar on free ATM transactions if the account holder has a minimum specified balance.

 An HDFC Bank official said cash withdrawal charges from ATMs was back after January 1, but there was no changes in structure as such. “Anyway, there will be no charges on any number of transactions from ATMs for salary account holders and preferred customers,” he added.
 
 The official said only in case of cash transactions from branches there are some changes in structure. “Earlier, five over-the-counter cash transactions from branches per month were free but now it would be reduced to four. Banks used to charge Rs 100 per extra cash transaction after five in a month. Now, the charge would be Rs 150 per extra transaction,” he said.
 
 However, banking experts feel that changes in fee structure in cash transaction from branches would not affect common customers in a big way. “Very few customers now withdraw money from branches more than four times a month,” a banking expert added.
 
 Axis Bank, too, has said there will be no charges for special customers and salary account holders. “There will be charges on cash transaction from branches over a specified limit,” said an Axis Bank official. An ICICI Bank official said the bank has not changed charges of ATM or cash transaction from branches since June last year.
 
 Meanwhile, for the last three days, majority of the ATMs in the city have gone dry following a rush in cash withdrawal by the salaried class. A government-run bank official told TOI that despite regular cash-filling in ATMs, cash stock became very low in Kolkata. “In ATMs, one customer can execute eight transactions a month without paying any charge. He or she can withdraw five times free of cost from own bank ATMs and three times from other bank ATMs. But for high-networth customers and salary account holders it is unlimited,” he added. 
 
 SBI and other PSU banks are also offering sops to ‘special customers’. For SBI, if a customer has an average balance of Rs 25,000 in savings account then he or she can have any number of ATM transactions from own bank branches. For other bank ATMs, it would be three. However, if a customer has more than Rs 1 lakh average balance then the number of ATM transactions either from own bank or other banks would be free. “Account holders with balance below Rs 1,000 have to pay charges for more than five transactions per month from ATMs,” an SBI official said.
 
 
