Twelve-year-old Tanjuma Khatoon presses a button to prod her small robot into motion while Prakash (13) just claps to make his device move back and forth on a sleek marble floor. “This is not the kind of toys I am supposed to play with… I have designed it myself,” said Tanjuma, a   girl at   (GSSS), Chakkarpur.

 Tanjuma and Prakash are among around 1,200 Class VI students picked from seven government schools in Gurgaon who are learning techniques of building  . The students — selected by   — have been training under the guidance of professional trainers from Indian Stem Foundation ( ) as a part of a special course on  , which kicked off in August last year and will continue till May. ISF’s trainers visit the seven schools almost daily and teach the students the science behind robots. 
 
 “Many kids fear science and somewhat believe they won’t be able to decipher the formulas and theorems. The whole purpose of this exercise is to help them overcome this fear,” said DLF Foundation’s Gayatri Paul, the mind behind the project. “In fact, schools abroad have adopted this holistic method of teaching long ago, telling kids about new technologies in a fun way.”
 
 Anchit Kumar, robotics trainer from ISF, who teaches at Government Senior Secondary School, Chakkarpur, said the training focused on both hardware and software. “About 60% of the curriculum emphasises on designing software, while the rest of the training is about how to put together hardware. First, we teach the mechanics of building robots, and then focus on the software part.”
 
 Now, all 1,200 students will undergo 32 more sessions of rigorous practical classes before they can make robots that would be capable of tasks like telling the colour blue from red, follow a defined pathway, and crossing obstacles.
 
 “On successful completion of the course, all the children will be made to take part in a competition, where their robot-making skills will be adjudged,” says Jagmohan Yadav, trainer at Government Senior Secondary School, Sarhaul, at Sector 18. 
 
 Interestingly, most of the students are from poor backgrounds. Tanjuma’s father is a mechanic working in Gurgaon, while GSSS-Chakkarpur student Naveen Thapa’s (12) father is a sanitation staff at MGF Mall and Mohit Singh (11), who studies at GSSS-Sarhaul, is the son of a tailor.
 
 In August-end last year, following a week-long rigorous training, 27 of these students had participated in the regional Olympiad held in Noida. They had been shortlisted on the basis of their efficiency level, comprehension power and robot-making speed. Three of them had even qualified for the National Olympiad scheduled in October, but couldn’t participate as their parents could not afford the trip to Kolkata, the event’s venue.
 
 According to Yadav, the initiative is aimed at providing children with a humble background a platform to showcase their innovation and intelligence.
 
 “I want to become a scientist when I grow up. It’s really fun making robots along with studies. It gives a whole new meaning to education,” Mohit, one of the 27 who qualified for the regional Olympiad, told TOI.
 
 
