NEW DELHI: Long dubbed as dangerous stretches,   and   remain   through the day due to higher speed limits and blind spots at mouths of flyovers. Though traffic police have undertaken work on a few stretches to reduce accidents, lack of concerted efforts to correct   and putting up adequate visual alerts still make them dangerous.

 Traffic police data shows that 30 fatal accidents were reported from Ring Road and 16 from Outer Ring Road in 2015. The study for 2016 is yet to be prepared. However, cops said that they have been raising concerns about the dangerous stretches for the past two years. Nearly 43% of accidents are hit-and-run cases. Roads in Burari, Model Town, Kalkaji and Kalyanpuri were found to be the most accident-prone zones.
 
 Research by Centre for Science and Environment shows that footpaths were built on only 55% of the length surveyed and only 10% had cycle tracks. Just 10-15% of the stretches had footpaths at least 1.8m wide, which is ideal. The kerb height, which is supposed to be about 150mm, is unacceptable at almost all stretches barring small sections. A majority of accidents take place at such places.
 
 Other accident-prone areas include places witnessing high footfall, like bus stands,   stations, exchange hubs, etc.
 
 Cops said that most places on Ring Road and Outer Ring Road lack safe, systematic transport exchange facilities (Metro buses, buses, autorickshaw, e-rickshaw, etc) for passengers. There is also lack of proper and enough information about the facilities which causes random movement of people on the road.
 
 Another observation made by cops is that these stretches have a high density of two-wheelers. Stretches that have too many cuts or lack U-turns prompt two-wheeler riders to travel on the wrong carriageway. Such roads need to be redesigned for safe movement of vehicles.
 
 Teams have been formed to identify the most accident-prone zones and suggest corrective measures, including installing speed breakers, road markings, fixing cautionary and informative boards and proper lighting.
 
 
