KOLKATA: Calcutta high court ordering a   inquiry into the Narada tapes may come as a shocker to some among Trinamool, but not to  . Unfazed, the Trinamool chief tried to give a political twist to the development, wondering how the state BJP president could pre-empt the HC order weeks ago.

 “Check what state BJP president Dilip Ghosh had said 20-25 days ahead of the Uttar Pradesh assembly polls. He had said exactly what the court ordered today. The BJP leader asked to wait for the UP polls to get over for the CBI to take up the Narada inquiry. It strikes me as I think of it now because the Narada judgment was kept in reserve for all these days,” the CM said during a press meet at the state secretariat on Friday.
 
 Mamata seems to draw her confidence from her spectacular win in the 2016 assembly polls despite the BJP showcasing the Narada clips. “You will remember that the Narada video tapes were aired from the state BJP office. Yet, some of our key leaders shown in the clips, such as Sovan Chatterjee, Subrata Mukherjee and Suvendu Adhikari, won the elections with flying colours. People reposed faith in them,” she said. Having said so, Mamata touched upon the broad contours of her line of defence in what she calls the “people’s court”. “The sting was made ahead of the 2014 Lok Sabha polls and our leaders took the money as donation. They took Rs 1 lakh, 2 lakh as donation. What’s the harm in it? Even the Election Commission allows political parties and leaders to take donation up to a certain limit. Our party submits its accounts regularly,” the Trinamool chief said.
 
 Mamata’s defence of her colleagues makes it different from a sting operation in 2001 that busted then BJP president Bangaru Laxman taking bribe. None of the BJP seniors at that time had come in Laxman’s support even as he fought a lone legal battle and was sentenced to imprisonment by a Delhi court. 
 
 Going on the offensive against the BJP at the Centre, Mamata said, “People want to know how much money was spent during the course of the UP polls. I have gone through a report of the Election Commission. The amount is more than Rs 1,000 crore. Let there be an inquiry like it is happening here.” She then latched onto the popular maxim— the king can do no wrong—hinting at the sovereign immunity from suit the BJP enjoys. “The King can do no wrong, only commoners can,” she said.
 
 The Trinamool chief’s playing the persecution card to the gallery has so far helped her sail through elections in spite of several scams, such as Saradha, Rose Valley, Narada, involving her party members since 2014. The state BJP did reap some benefits in Kolkata as did the other Opposition parties, Congress and the Left. But that was not enough to turn the tables against Trinamool. 
 
 Both the   and Congress seemed glad the high court passed the order on Thursday. “I welcome the high court’s CBI inquiry order. I hope the Didi-Modi understanding doesn’t come in the way of the probe,” said CPM state secretary Surjya Kanta Mishra. Leader of the Opposition in state Assembly Abdul Mannan wanted the CM to take responsibility and step down.
 
 
