Mumbai:   takes over as chairman of   on Tuesday, leaving behind a successful legacy at   ( ) and heading out into slippery terrain at the group’s helm.

 As a leader, the 54-year-old inherits a sprawling conglomerate, many of whose key businesses face stiff challenges. For Chandra, the primary task at  , the group’s headquarters in south Mumbai, will be the appointment of key lieutenants who will help him steer the ship.
 
 In the past, the core team at Tata Sons comprised several stalwarts like J J Irani, R K Krishna Kumar and Ishaat Hussain. Chandra may cherry-pick talent from within the group, but a few outsiders too may be inducted on the main policy-making body. The erstwhile Group Executive Council (GEC), which was operated under former chairman  , has been dismantled.
 
 As Chandra scripts a strategy for the future of the entire group, he will have to factor in global trends, legacy issues, litigation, protectionism and huge debts. Some decisions may require tough calls. Just last week, Tata Motors reported a 96% decline in quarterly profit due to wider losses in the domestic business and lower sales at Jaguar Land Rover. A decision on the future of the loss-making Nano car, for one, cannot be delayed.
 
 Besides, tighter H-1B visa rules and a $940-million lawsuit concerning US-based e-medical records vendor Epic adds to concerns at TCS. Tata Motors and TCS together contributed 58% to group revenues and 89% to overall profits in fiscal 2016. A big task for Chandra will be to reduce dependence on TCS and Tata Motors and increase revenues from other businesses. New business ventures such as TataCliq and Tata Digital Health would require a big push going forward.
 
 The strategy on telecom will also test Chandra’s leadership skills even as the enterprise battles a $1.2-billion legal case with Japanese partner DoCoMo. The group’s $25-billion debt is another matter requiring his attention. His execution skills will come in handy to raise cash, refinance loans and divest non-corrosive assets.
 
 The long-distance runner may also have to devote time to give the conglomerate’s brand image a makeover following the bitter fight with Mistry.
 
 Chandra, as he put it recently, would want to “make an impact and difference” as chairman of Tata Sons. How he strikes a balance with the company’s principal shareholder,  , will be keenly observed.
 
 
