HYDERABAD: The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation’s ( ) decision to garland those who  , at a time when the number of public toilets in the city is abysmally low, has irked many residents. Shockingly, of the total 184 public toilets that have been installed, less than half are earmarked for women.

 The 47 bio-urinals installed by the civic body in 2015 are all designed for men as well. The state government’s plans to increase the number of such ‘green’ urinals, to 1000, from the existing 47 also points to a stark gender inequality. Of the total 1,000 bio-urinals, which have been planned along busy roads and intersections, only 200 are earmarked for women. 
 
 “Such a stark disparity in the number of toilets for men and women in the city is appalling. The development authorities must consider the needs of the increasing number of women on city roads. Also, the existing toilets are all lying in a neglected state. There are no dustbins or any clean water,” rued  , a resident of Begumpet. 
 
 “The GHMC has followed a 1:2 ratio, to build toilets for men and women in the city. This ratio is baseless and the authorities have simply assumed that there are fewer women out on the roads, in comparison with the number of men. The GHMC itself employs around 20,000 female staff who sweep city roads,” said urban planner Anant Maringanti.
 
 When contacted, Chief Medical Officer of the GHMC’s health and sanitation wing, P Padma, while admitting, to the lesser number of toilets available for women in the city, suggested that the toilet facilities at petrol pumps be used instead. However, a GHMC survey, the results of which were announced in October, last year, found that a clear majority, of 365 petrol pumps inspected, did not have functional toilets.
 
 “The toilets at petrol pumps are all badly maintained. Instead of asking women to use such facilities, the GHMC must work towards creating more toilets for women. The Delhi municipal corporation, for example, changed the 60:40 male female ratio for requirement of public toilets to 50:50, nearly two years ago” said  , a techie and resident of Madhapur. 
 
