MUMBAI: Sports today is no longer about a game on the field. Along with it are glitz, glamour and mega-bucks. The confluence has turned sportsmen into sporting stars and has sparked a need to skilfully manage both the players and the game.

 Rising corporate investment in sports, Indian sportspersons registering their presence in international arenas and the need to tap talent at the grassroots has led to an increased demand of personnel giving a boost to the sports management industry.
 
 “Sports in India is beginning to organize itself into a profitable industry, with many opportunities to achieve professional excellence on and off the field,” said Sharan Parikh, director Pyramid Sports, a sports management company.
 
 Experts said the industry is only expected to boom in the years to come. 
 
 “Industry estimates show that the sports sector is growing at 12% year on year. Out of the Rs 55,000 crore media spending in India, about 11% was spent on sports sponsorships. In addition to these numbers, everywhere we look around the lifestyles have undergone change and grassroots development is a major area of work,” said Abhijit Dabhade, COO of International Institute of Sports Management, which runs courses in association with Mumbai University.
 
 Beyond the regular notion of sports events and the loosely defined ‘sports management’, many niches have arisen within the sector such as sports infrastructure (working with setting up facilities), sports data (collecting and understanding data of team and individual performance, health and their trends), sports medicine, sports psychology, media as well as sports law.
 
 The industry also relies on traditional profiles such as marketing, HR, finance, information technology and many more. 
 
 “The growth is not very uniform in the industry. Once a professional has made the right contacts in the industry, sectors such as celebrity management, events and marketing are very lucrative options,” said Amol Sonvane, vice president of Ironwood Sports Management Global Academy. 
 
 (Inputs: Elizabeth Vergese)
 
