TILWARA, BARMER: If you travel by road to Tilwara at the time of  , you are bound to see   with their   riding on trucks, the breeze gently ruffling their manes. The   is named after   of the area, Rawal Mallinath. A temple dedicated to Mallinath exists at the site of the mela, which has a continuous 700-year-old history.

 “My father would tell me that Rani Rupade, Rawal Mallinath’s wife, had blessed the area and said that for the fortnight in which the animal fair is held, water would be available with just a little digging of the river bed. Actually, I don’t know how, but it is true. This is arid area, the river Luni runs dry at this time, but tents are pitched for a length of about 5 km on river bed and water is not a problem,” says Jodhpur-based lawyer Digvijay Singh whose family belongs to this area.
 
 
  
 The fair is held on the bed of river Luni, the only river that flows through these arid parts. This seasonal river originates close to Pushkar in Ajmer district, flows through these parts of Rajasthan and vanishes into the sands in Rann of Kutch. There is water in the river only for about a month each year but the bed has long been fertile.
 
 Kishan Singh of Jasol, Barmer, a government servant who has settled in his ancestral home after retirement, said, “When I was a child, we could grow vegetables on the bed of the river. Pollution from the textile dyeing units, however, has put paid to that. The river is now among the most polluted in the world.”
 
 At the site of the cattle fair, however, there is little sign of the river’s inability to provide. The tents are pitched close, and more than camels or bullocks, this year, there is an abundance of horses.
 
 Horse owners can be seen strutting around with their animals. There are races that are held in the evenings, and winners are much sought after by buyers. One seller, showing off his chestnut mare, told TOI, “She is pregnant. She will go for about Rs 5 lakh. The owner will have the little one too, after all.”
 
 Local people believe that the fair first originated when the followers of Lord Mallinath arrived from different parts of the country astride well bred horses and engaged in sale and purchase of animals. There is a shrine of Mallinath in the area. When prayers are granted, people offer little images of horses made of bronze or wood as token of thanks.
 
 Mahendra Singh Tanwar of Intach, Jodhpur, says, “At the time of the rule of Rajput kings, the royals would protect the traders. The king’s men would accompany traders and their caravans to the borders of the kingdom to ensure they were not looted.”
 
 This year the fair began on March 24. The district administration ensures that all animals are properly certified, healthy, and will be used for agricultural purposes or milk production. There were about 2,500 horses and over 1,000 camels this year.
 
