HYDERABAD: Thirty-two-year old Ramesh (name changed ) is married with two children. He was diagnosed with HIV in 2014. While life changed after his diagnosis, he was at least thankful of having a stable job at the front desk of a private hotel. But fate and prejudice intervened the day his manager saw the   card on his desk. The next day he was asked to quit. “I even attempted suicide three times. I could not find a job, finally an NGO offered me a job as counsellor,“ he said.

 Ramesh is not isolated in trauma. A survey conducted in Telangana revealed that 93% people living with   face stigma at workplaces, in their neighbourhoods and even at hospitals. This has forced several of them to travel long distances to reach   (ART) centres.
 
 The survey, carried out by city-based Helping  , began in mid-February and covered 26 ART centres. The team interviewed 561 patients across the state, 182 of whom were from Hyderabad, to find that 93% of them faced discrimination at their places of work and while accessing healthcare or getting rented accommodation in case they disclose their HIV-positive status.ART counsellors and medical experts were also interviewed.
 
 The survey also exposed exploitation by private hospitals.As many as 60% of the respondents said that private hospitals make them pay through the nose for treatment. In case they choose to go to a government hospital, they are met with hesitance. This is why most HIV patients prefer to keep their identities guarded. As many as 55% of the respondents withheld their names for fear of discrimination and only shared their ART registration number in the survey.
 
 What's worse is that 25% reported facing discrimination at ART centres too. They said they faced problems in collecting medicines and had to put up with rude behaviour of staff. The stigma is so high that 54% said they went to ART centres far away from their homes for fear of being exposed in their own neighbourhoods.Most patients also discard medicine boxes just outside ART centres to ensure they are not identified.
 
