JAISALMER: According to a study by  , 16 districts including Barmer and Jaisalmer have been identified as sensitive in regard to child marriages. During   this year, maximum   in the state came from Barmer.

 Legal services authority chairman, G K Vyas, of the Jodhpur bench of Rajasthan High Court and other judges and district administration of many districts of western Rajasthan had run an awareness campaign to stop   and it yielded good results.
 
 This time over 30 child   were stopped in Barmer and Jaisalmer districts. Maximum cases of 26 were from Barmer which were stopped due to administration’s awareness. Unicef considers 16 districts sensitive from the point of view of child marriages. The body even allotted Rs 60,000 as fuel budget.
 
 Maximum child marriages take place in Barmer and Jaisalmer districts. In these districts the maximum cases were of Bishnoi and Jat communities. Especially, in Bishnoi community after the death of any relative a feast is offered on the 12th day, and on this day many child marriages also take place.
 
 However, now with the changing times, when the children are married off and when they attain adulthood, many girls refuse to accept their child marriages. There have been a number of cases where the girls have sought court’s help to declare their marriages ‘null and void.’
 
 The Jodhpur bench started a huge awareness campaign to stop child marriage under the aegis of justice Vyas and other judges and district administration. The results have been good. This time a large number of villagers informed the control room about child marriages taking place nearby. Barmer district collector Sudhir Sharma confirming this said that this time 26 child marriages complaints were reported and were stopped by sending teams immediately.
 
 Along with SDO, women’s groups, Anganwadi workers, NGOs, patwaris, teachers, health workers and others were directed to remain vigilant. Sharma said that under Child Marriage Prevention Act 2006, all officers were bound to remain alert and should not be careless in their duties.
 
 There has been positive results and total 26 child marriages were stopped. As per information from the control room three child marriages of minor daughters of one Karna Ram at Larwan ki Beri under Sedwa police station area were stopped. Similarly, a child marriage of Bhomji Prajapat at Asotara was stopped. Child marriage at Tatadi village, three at Dhanau village, marriages of three granddaughters of upsarpanch, one at Ablia village, at Sivana and two marriages of minor girls of Chenaram and two child marriages at Jhabra in Jaisalmer were reported.
 
 
