Hyderabad: The district consumer forum has directed the Medak collector to pay a compensation of Rs 20,000 to an ex-servicemen for denying renewal of his   without a valid reason. The ex-serviceman, M Shanker, after retirement as a ‘Naik’ in the Indian Army, is working as a   at a private bank in Zaheerabad. 

 The security guard’s licence, renewed earlier by the collector, was valid till March 12, 2015. However, when he applied for renewal again, enclosing the necessary documents, the licence was not issued. “I need the licence to be renewed for my job. Despite paying the necessary fee and submission of required documents, the collector of Medak rejected my request,” he said before the forum and urged it to direct the collector to renew his arms licence and award a compensation.
 
 The collector, in a written reply, contended that the forum did not have the jurisdiction to entertain this complaint and that the petitioner should have appeared before the designated appellate authority to redress his grievance.
 
 The official further contended that Shanker had applied for the licence in his individual capacity without submitting any evidence of threat to his life instead of the bank. 
 
 During the trial, the bench noticed that citing bifurcation of Medak, the opposite party had taken a very long time to reply and said that the complainant had been treated very unfairly despite his desperate need for a job for his livelihood and in denying him the licence, his job was at stake.
 
 “The opposite party states that the company, not an individual, should apply for a licence. In this case, the bank has also addressed the authorities concerned. Moreover, the complainant is obviously employed by a security agency. If the opposite party is truly following the rules, then it should have insisted on the security agency applying on behalf of the security guard. Then we raise the pertinent question – how were the other renewals made? It was obviously given on his individual capacity as an ex-serviceman,” said the bench and directed the district collector to pay Rs 20,000 as compensation and an additional Rs 2,000 towards the cost.
 
 
