Gurgaon:   clinched the 12th leg of the Hero Women’s Professional Golf Tour, at the challenging  , after carding the day’s best round of 73.

  In her three-month-old professional career, this was Tvesa’s second win in five starts, and she’s finished no lower than 11th in the other three events. Unlike her first win, at the Eagleton Golf Resort, Bangalore, this one was way more comfortable as she romped home eight strokes clear, leaving the rest of the field fighting for second place. She clearly mastered the course conditions.
 
  “The inclement weather made the going really tough, and I really had to focus and dig deep to get the result I wanted. A small mistake could have led to a big number on the scorecard so in the end it was quite satisfying,” Tvesa said about the challenge she faced at DGC.
 
  Tvesa became the fourth player to win multiple titles this season after Vani Kapoor (3), Amandeep Drall (2) and Gursimar Badwal (2). But winning is hardly new territory for her. She enjoyed a fantastic amateur career, and has been part of the national squad since 2014 – till the time she turned pro, in July 2017.
 
  Tvesa won a number of junior and ladies championships, with the most notable being her win in the 16th leg of the Hero WPGT, at Delhi Golf Club in 2015, while still an amateur. Other notable wins include the Northern India Championship last year, Sri Lankan Amateur Championship in 2014, along with a double at the DGC Ladies Open (2012, 2014).
 
  “I got into golf because of my dad. Me and my sister used to tag along with him and that’s how I fell in love with the game and decided to pursue it seriously,” she said.
 
  Representing India for the past few years has given Tvesa the chance to rub shoulders with some of the best talent in the world. For two years, she was part of the prestigious   Cup team. And in between these two appearances, she also teed off at the World Amateur Team Championship, in 2016, all while consistently improving her scoring. “My aim now is to become a full member of the Ladies   and take my game to the next level to achieve that.
 
  “I look at the achievements of Aditi Ashok and Anirban Lahiri, and take inspiration from them,” she added.
 
 
