NEW DELHI: The   (ICJ) on Monday began hearing Indian national  's death sentence by  .

 India presented its arguments on the case first, followed by Pakistan later in the day. Both sides will get 90 minutes each.
 
 India's representative at the ICJ hearing, Deepak Mittal, described the charges against Jadhav as "concocted" and his trial as "farcical."
 
 He further argued that human rights treated as "basics" all over had been thrown to the wind by Pakistan and all requests for   to 46-year-old Jadhav had fallen on "deaf ears".
 
 "The current situation is grave and that is the reason we have sought the indulgence of the ICJ... India claims the rights of the individual and the rights of India under the Vienna Convention have been violated since the alleged arrest of Jadhav," said senior advocate   during the hearing.
 
 "India has made innumerable requests since March 2016 for consular access. Pakistan admittedly did not provide access, they have refused to communicate to the consular officers the charges against Jadhav, and the evidence and materials presented against him in the so-called trial. The denial of access to Jadhav has resulted in consular officers of India being unable to arrange legal representation for him and assure themselves of his well-being and safety," the former Solicitor General said. 
 
 The counsel for defence further said that Jadhav had been denied legal aid in Pakistan and his alleged confession to the charges against him had been exhorted while he was in military custody.
 
 "Jadhav was framed on confessional statements extracted from him when he was in Pakistan's military custody. It is clear that Jadhav has been denied of his right to seek legal counsel. There is an immediate threat to him to be executed even before a judicial decision is passed," Salve said.
 
 Urging the international court to indicate provisional measures in the Jadhav case, India enumerated four appeals: to declare the death sentence illegal; restitution fro Pakistan for being violative of international law and treaty rights; restrain Pakistan from acting in violation of the Vienna Convention and international law by giving effect to the sentence or the conviction in any manner; and directing it to release the convicted Indian National forthwith, if Pakistan is unable to annul the decision.
 
 A Pakistan military court had awarded the death sentence to Jadhav, 46, last month for espionage and subversive activities.
 
 India appealed against the death sentence on May 8 alleging violation of the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations by Pakistan after its 16 requests for consular access were denied.
 
 The next day, ICJ stayed the sentence.
 
