Chennai: Flying over the Bay of Bengal is going to be safer as Airports Authority of India (AAI) is planning to bifurcate airspace over the ocean for better monitoring of planes that fly in the area where several international and domestic routes crisscross. 

 The move is planned because the airspace that is spread over the ocean between Chennai and Port Blair is 1,200miles long and is a vital link for flights connecting south East Asia to the Middle East and Europe. More than 340 international flights fly daily along 26 international routes that crisscross domestic routes. 
 
 “The airspace will be vertically bifurcated and a separate team of   controllers will monitor the two sections so that there is efficient monitoring,” said Pradeep Kandoth, general manager air traffic management, Chennai, while talking on oceanic air traffic management at a function organised by Public Relations Society of India on Friday. 
 
 He said the bifurcation which would come into force in a few months would reduce the workload of the controllers and also would help minimise air traffic control incidents over the ocean. 
 
 After the bifurcation, AAI will look at space-based ADS-B (Automatic Dependent Surveillance - Broadcast) by which low-orbit satellites will stream information about flights to ground stations so that air traffic controllers will get a complete view of the planes over an ocean’s airspace where conventional radar cannot track planes. He said the futuristic system was yet to get approvals but was expected to be introduced in a few months. 
 
 The space-based ADS-B will also offer flexibility to pilots to optimise altitudes, fly more direct routes and avoid weather interruptions efficiently. Now, location of a plane is tracked when pilots inform about their position to the air traffic control every 20 minutes or whenever asked by the controller over the radio frequency or via text messages sent to the planes. 
 
 Kandoth also said user-preferred routes were also being planned while introduction of central air traffic flow management had helped cut down the time taken by flights to hold over a space waiting for clearance to land. “This helps airlines save on fuels and allows airport to accommodate more arrivals and departures. The airport also will introduce simultaneous use of main runway and the second runway by December.” 
 
 Chennai airport director G Chandramouli spoke on ‘Overview of Greenfield Airport Challenges’ and said, “High cost of obtaining services for air traffic control, security, customs, limited opportunities for revenue generation in the short term and medium term, no assurances from airlines to fly, competition from larger airports and rail and road transport and land acquisation are some of the challenges in building a greenfield airport.” 
 
 
