SECUNDERABAD: Financial crunch has hit the sewerage master plan in  . The master plan was proposed about a decade ago and nothing has moved forward except cost escalation. The long delay in the execution of the project is only adding to the woes of residents of dozens of colonies. They are hit by overflowing sewage at many places.

 The Transport Road at Karkhana in Secunderabad Cantonment is the worst hit. Stinking sewage water has become the daily norm in the locality . The residents of   and   are also faced with the problem. In fact, Secunderabad Cantonment does not have a proper and scientific underground drainage system.The existing lines were laid about 80 years.
 
 The Cantonment lacks a proper sewerage system. The drainage lines were laid during the British rule and no efforts have been made to replace them after the Independence. Nearly a decade ago, a consultant was appointed by the Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB) for preparation of conceptual design reports (CDRs) and sewerage master plan ( ). It was also entrusted with the task of submitting report on strengthening, extension and formulation of sewerage system to cover entire Secunderabad Cantonment area spread over 47.14 square kilometres. The consultant prepared a   (DPR) and submitted it to the Board. The cost of the project was around `195 crore. But the DPR has been gathering dust in official cupboards.
 
 When the DPR was prepared, the sewage flow in the Cantonment was 37.380 million li ters per day (MLD). The consultant prepared the DPR keeping in view the growth of population till 2041 (7.78 lakh population). It said the sewage discharge will touch 105.627 MLD by then. The consultant also suggested construction of three sewerage treatment plants (STPs).
 
 The HMWS&SB, which played a key role in the appointment of the consultant, sent the proposal to the Central government seeking financial assistance under Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission. The project was however not cleared. Since then nothing has moved on the ground causing trouble to thousands of residents.
 
 In the last one decade, there has been a rapid increase in the population in  . As many as 320 residential colonies came up in Secunderabad Cantonment. The present population in the Cantonment limits is 3.5 lakh. Still, there is no proper sewer system. Sewage is let into open nalas. The problem gets worse during rainy season.
 
 A civilian ward member said the state government should extend financial assistance to the   to reconstruct the drainage in the cantonment limits.
 
