KOLKATA: Unrest continued in Bhangor of   on Thursday too, as locals blocked road and prevented Salt Lake mayor and   Sabyasachi Dutta from entering from Bokdoba end. He was later rescued by police. Dutta had gone to pacify the agitating mob who had been protesting against the setting up of the power sub-station of Powergrid Corporation and two men were killed in firing last week.

 Dutta is trying to have discussions with the villagers and pacify them. But his attempts are not been taken very easily and for which he was prevented as roads were blocked. 
 
  leader Sarmistha Choudhury was remanded in police custody for eight days by a Baruipur court along with three others on Thursday. The counsel for Choudhury stated in the court that she had gone to Bhangor to make the locals understand the negative environmental effects of a power sub-station in the area. While public prosecutor claimed that she was involved in provoking the locals following which police were attacked and police vans were burnt and pushed into ponds. Several policemen were injured.
 
 However the defence counsel claimed that the two people were killed due to police firing and now they were trying to pass on the blame to Choudhury for the death of two. Moreover, there are allegations against the police as they have not been able to take action against a former Trinamool MLA Arabool islam whose men had forcibly grabbed land from locals at gunpoint and sold it at a soaring price to the Power Grid Corporation. Even there are claims from a section of trinamool leaders of Bhangor that Islam's men had opened fire which killed the two men including a student.
 
 The villagers on Thursday too blocked various roads and prevented entry of cars, particularly police vehicles and attempts by the administration to pacify the villagers of Bhangor is still a far cry. 
 
 Bengal CM however has asked the police not to take action against the villagers who had attacked the policemen, instead to zero in on the Naxalites who had been provocated the villagers to protest against the power sub-station.
 
