BHOPAL: The fate of   and BJP candidates in   and   assembly bypolls will be decided on Thursday. Counting of votes will start at 8am.

 The bypoll is going to be a litmus test for both Congress and BJP in the run-up to the state assembly elections next year. According to the Election Commission (EC), only five candidates are in the fray in Bandhavgarh while bypoll in Ater will decide the future of 21 candidates. The EC has made three-tier security arrangements during the counting of votes to ensure free and fair process. 
 
 Though both the main political parties had demanded repolling at 41 polling booths in Ater, the commission did not issue any orders. 
 
 The Ater bypoll is crucial because it could decide the future of Congress and BJP leaders who are lobbying for leadership for the forthcoming assembly elections. Political experts say the result will be crucial for Jyotiraditya Scindia, Congress state chief Arun Yadav and national general secretary Mohan Prakash. It will also be a test for chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan to see if there is any hint of anti-incumbency at work. 
 
 Officials said the counting for Ater bypoll will be held in Government MJS College, Bhind, while for Bandhavgarh, counting of votes will be held in District Education and Training Institute, Umaria. 
 
 The commissioner has deputed 70 employees each for counting of the two constituencies. “For Ater, 21 rounds of counting will be held, while for Bandhavgarh the counting will be over in 19 rounds,” said a senior official. The Election Commission has announced a dry day in both the constituencies on Thursday. 
 
 Apart from strict security arrangements, the commission has also installed surveillance cameras for monitoring the entire process. The main contest in Ater is between Hemant Katare of Congress and Arvind Singh Bhadoria of BJP. It’s a prestige fight. In Bandhavgarh seat, BJP’s Shivnarayan Singh is pitted against Congress’ Savitri Singh. The EC has appointed special election observer during the counting of votes for Ater after complaints of alleged tampering in EVMs. 
 
 
