AMRITSAR: Once a cornerstone of the   after the British massacred nearly 1,500 Indians on its premises on April 13, 1919, the   has been reduced to a monument to which successive governments have only paid lip service.

 Even as two Rajya Sabha MPs from Punjab, Congress's Partap Singh Bajwa and BJP's Shwet Malik, traded charges over the maintenance and development of the memorial on Tuesday, a visit to the monument a day later has revealed that most tourist initiatives started at Jallianwala Bagh have been discontinued.
 
 Lack of accountability and clarity over how funds are to be used are the biggest reasons behind this. A light and sound show, started in 2010, has been discontinued for nearly two years.The only souvenir shop on its premises is on the verge of closure.
 
 The Union ministry of cultural affairs had started the show, Son-et-Lumiere, amid much fanfare, with actor Amitabh Bachchan lending his voice to it. At that time, then defence minister A K Antony had inaugurated the show.
 
 Though TOI tried to get in touch with the secretary of the trust responsible for Jallianawala Bagh's upkeep, he was unavailable to speak.   (JBNMT) is headed by the Prime Minister as its chairperson and includes five members.
 
 The light and sound show was started to show visitors the history of the national monument.
 
 About two years ago, it was discontinued due to “technical reasons“ and hasn't been started since.An 18-minute documentary on Jallianwala Bagh, which used to be shown in a 50-seat theatre hall, was also discontinued around the same time.
 
 Tourists visiting Jalli anwala Bagh often complain of non-availability of memorial's mementos, Tshirts and other souvenirs.Only a handful of books available in the souvenir shop opened in 2011. During a visit to the national memori al, one can also see garbage littered around the Flame of Liberty and in some corners of Jallianwala Bagh, which explain its poor upkeep. Despite repeated phone calls, JBNMT secretary S K Mukherjee didn't answer.
 
 
 
 
 The Rajya Sabha showdown is not the first time that Jallianwala Bagh has come in the spotlight for management of fund. Last year, the memorial had run into controversy after   demanded a CBI probe into Rs 3.5cr going missing from a government grant given to JBNMT. Later, a reply by the Union ministry of culture to an RTI plea had revealed in March this year that Rs 12,571 were offered in the Martyrs' Well of Jallianwala Bagh over a period of 10 years.Though government claims that thousands of people visit the historic park near Golden Temple every day, the daily average for donations received in the well came to just Rs 3.5 a day for the years from 2007 to 2016. The RTI activist who filed the plea, P C Sharma, said it seemed unbelievable.
 
