NEW DELHI: The address of the placement agency from where the Jains hired Roshan, who murdered Sarita Jain and robbed the house on Tuesday, was 294-B Hauz Rani. However, when the cops reached the area, the found that the number of the houses ended at 292. Obviously, the placement agency was operating out of a non-existent address.

 This is also the story of a vast majority of placement agencies in the capital. They are ghost entities that operate through shady channels, relying on mobile phones and WhatsApp for business. Many attract enquiries through service facilitators via dubious apps on Google Play.
 
 In  , Shakarpur and Laxmi Nagar, the hub of placement agencies, most of them worked from one-room flats that had no signboards identifying them as manpower firms. The recruitment process, TOI discovered on Wednesday, is a cloak-and-dagger affair. At Laxmi Nagar, locals initially denied there were any placement agencies around. A bit of probing, however, revealed that the point of contact was a fast-food stall. After denying that he could provide a maid, the stall owner eventually agreed to finalise a deal. He identified himself as Sonu, resident of Nepal.
 
 In neighbouring Shakarpur, there are five agencies. “There is a lot of competition and we reach out to our customers through an increased online presence,” Sonu finally opened up. “It is tough to operate in Delhi than in other states, but the earnings are higher.” In Malviya Nagar, it took a lot of coaxing for a pan shop owner to point out the placement agency premises, where a man promised to call back within two days on our query about a maid. He told us that a girl from   or   could be arranged for a commission of Rs 20,000 and a salary of Rs 4,000 per month.
 
 At another firm, a man who called himself Amit would not commit to a police verification of a hired maid. However, he offered to verify the worker’s voter identity card after the commission was paid. “We have applied for a registration and are awaiting a response. Until then we have to operate secretly to avoid paying taxes,” confided Amit, before betraying himself by failing to state which government department he had sent his application to.
 
 A police officer explained that the agencies provide addresses in remote areas to deter personal meetings. “Most often people contact these agencies via Just Dial or get their numbers on ad portals or through fliers. Besides a commission of Rs 20,000-50,000, they negotiate salaries from Rs 4,000 to Rs 20,000 for the domestic helps,” the officer said.
 
 The hired person pays the agency a part of his or her salary every month. In the nebulous transactions, people seeking jobs become indebted to the placement agency. “All expenses are treated as debt owed to the agency and this is settled at arbitrary interest rates against their wages,” alleged Rishi Kanth of NGO Shakti Vahini. “This practice is designed to bind the worker to the agencies and give them complete control over their life and liberties.”
 
 Kanth said that workers often failed to receive their full salaries for months altogether. In 99% of the 121 cases studied by Shakti Vahini, the workers never received their full wages.
 
