Noida: The Election Commission’s decision to let Akhilesh Yadav use Samajwadi Party’s official ‘cycle’ symbol was greeted with jubilation by its cadre in Gautam Budh Nagar torn by the feud in the first family. But the prospect of an imminent alliance with Congress is already turning many smiling faces glum. 

 That is because of speculation that the   may not see a Samajwadi candidate at all and could be handed over to Congress. Particularly concerned are the young faces of Samajwadi Party, who were rooting for Akhilesh even when they were removed from posts of different youth organisations by Shivpal Yadav. The possibility of not having their own candidate to campaign for at all is not something they are looking forward to.
 
 In 2012, the SP had not done well in NCR despite its impressive performance across the state that saw Akhilesh storm to power in Lucknow. SP did not win any of the eight assembly seats in Gautam Budh Nagar and Ghaziabad in 2012. But neither did Congress. Yet, it could be handed the seat because of the BJP factor. 
 
 A senior SP functionary, known to be a Shivpal-baiter, told TOI the   seat would be given to Congress as BJP would give a tough fight to any opponent. Mahesh Sharma, now a Union minister, had won the Noida seat in 2012 before going on to fight the Lok Sabha election. Vimla Batham won the seat in the 2014 bypoll. 
 
 “Both candidates who are leading the BJP race for the Noida seat are strong. Vimla Batham is the sitting MLA but if home minister Rajnath Singh’s son gets a chance, he will be a formidable contender. In both cases, SP hardly stands a chance. It is most likely the decision-makers will give this seat to Congress,” he said.
 
 On Monday, BJP released a list of 149 candidates, including four constituencies in Ghaziabad and two in Gautam Budh Nagar — Dadri and Jewar. On Tuesday, TOI had reported that the names of Batham and Pankaj Singh were doing the rounds for the Noida seat.
 
 Yet, Sunil Choudhary, whose name appeared in the candidates’ list released by Akhilesh on December 29, bought a nomination form from the collectorate office on Tuesday. It was the first day of filing nomination papers for the first phase of the assembly election slated for February 11.
 
 “I will submit it as soon as the final go-ahead from the party comes,” Choudhary told TOI. Asked if the seat would be given to Congress, he said he would support the party’s decision.
 
 The Jewar seat, in the meantime, is most likely to go to Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD), which has a farmer base, and is also likely to be part of the alliance with SP and Congress. 
 
 In Dadri, the names of Sameer Bhati, a farmer businessman and former MLA from Congress is doing the rounds along with SP’s Rajkumar Bhati, who had also made it in the CM’s list.
 
