MARGAO: As the clock ticks towards the  , to be held on February 4, there is a buzz in the air as election campaign vehicles make their way through the narrowest of roads, covering every corner of the constituency,urging voters to vote for a particular candidate, while also announcing the venue and time of the candidate’s public meeting.

 But, beyond the shouting of slogans and blabbering, what grabs the attention of local residents or the odd passersby is the fact that this campaign vehicles are mounted with funnel-shaped speakers, blaring out melodious election campaign jingles in the local lingo, praising the candidate while castigating his or her political opponents.
 
 One such jingle composer is tiatrist  , who has lent her skills to write and sing a political jingle for her husband’s, Wilson (Wilmix) Mazarello, election campaign. Wilmix is contesting as an independent candidate from Velim. Sharon told TOI that she composed the tune on the keyboard and recorded it on the mobile, before uploading it on various social media forums. 
 
 Singer-lyricist-music composer Sidhanath Buyao, who recently performed at Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi’s public meeting at Mapusa, informed TOI that he had composed eight such audio-visual advertisements for Congress that were being presently aired on the radio. Buyao has also staged live musical performances in support of Congress. 
 
 Senior tiatrist Osvy Viegas confirmed that he had composed songs for the election campaigns of former chief minister Churchill Alemao, as well as former minister Jose Philip D’Souza in the 2012 polls. “Though the CDs were freely distributed to the public, creating them cost us nearly Rs 1 lakh,” Viegas said.
 
 It is not professional tiatrists, but mostly amateur artistes who undertake such works with there being over 20 small recording studios where such political songs are sung and recorded through the state. While the fees charged for creating such election campaign jingle CDs range from Rs 4,000 to Rs 50,000, the audio-visual publicity clips cost between Rs 1 lakh and Rs 5 lakh, with some artistes even rendering their services free. Ironically, despite being a pro-Marathi regional party, the MGP, too, is learnt to have wooed some tiatrists to compose such publicity songs for Goa’s oldest regional party, sources said. 
 
