NAVI MUMBAI:  , dumpers and machinery worth Rs 60 lakh were seized close to the site of the   recently.

 The revenue department has intensified its action against sand excavators after the visit of the Raigad additional collector to Mahad. Illegal operators are active in sand extraction from Kal and Savitri rivers. Cases have been registered against seven people after the seizure of equipment.
 
 Confirming his visit to Mahad on Tuesday, Raigad additional collector P D Malikner said, “Sand mafia is active in the area and preventive measures have been intensified to control the menace.” A week after vehicles were swept away in the Savitri river after the British-era bridge collapsed in Mahad last August 2016, search teams found at least half a dozen heavy-duty pumps lying on the river bed, exposing illegal   in the area. While the state government initially ruled out that the bridge collapse was the fallout of sand mining in Savitri river, locals allege unauthorized extraction is rampant in Mahad. 
 
 Villagers allege that tehsil officials did not pay heed to their complaints after which they had to approach the collector’s office. “We have registered cases under sections 379 (punishment for theft) and 34 of the Indian Penal Code,” said a police official from Mahad taluka. 
 
  Meanwhile in a raid conducted by a Vadkhal police team near Dharamtar jetty on April 12, a barge with a suction pump and large quantity of sand loaded on the vessel was seized. The barge was anchored at the jetty when the cops raided the place around 1pm on Wednesday. The quantity of the seized sand along with the barge and suction pump is estimated to cost around Rs 3 lakh. However, the people behind the dredging slipped away before the cops arrived at the jetty.
 
 The Vadkhal police registered an FIR under sections 379 of the IPC and 21 of the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957.
 
 “Illegal sand dredging continues unabated even in broad daylight as the sand mafia is apparently undeterred by police action as the perpetrators are aware that the legislation is weak as the theft of sand from the creek is a bailable offence,” said environmentalist Sumaira Abdulali of Awaaz Foundation.
 
 In March, the Raigad police had conducted three raids and arrested 17 people who were caught red-handed while carrying out illegal sand dredging in Dharamtar creek. 
 
 
