The two-day UP Mango Festival, organised by the Uttar Pradesh government, along with the   and UP Tourism, and spearheaded by Jyotsna Kaur Habibullah, was a successful affair. With over 700 varieties of mangoes on display, the festival was inaugurated by UP CM   along with politicos Dr  , Dara Singh and bureaucrats Sudhir Garg and Chander Prakash, among others.
In its fifth year, the festival had a hosts of activities centred around mangoes including a cooking competition of mango dishes and also ice creams and chocolates made with the king of fruits. 
  
  (L) Minni Dixit (R) Rita Bahuguna Joshi (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav)
 
 Stalls serving finger-licking dishes made with mangoes, handicrafts, clothing, bonsai plants and other exotic plants attracted a huge number of visitors on both days. A quiz based on mangoes had the guests wracking their brains for the correct answer. But a session of kisse and kahaniyan by dastango Himanshu Bajpai and a band performance by Aman mesmerized the audience.
  
  Kalimullah Khan, India’s Mango Man, with a mango from his orchard in   (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav)
 
 An interactive book reading by   and storytelling sessions was also a part of the festival in which stories of eminent personalities related to mangoes were recited by Himanshu Bajpai. A story writing competition was organised with youngsters writing stories of their own related to mangoes. Anything remotely related to mango and you could find it at the festival. A poetry contest titled 'aam pe shayari' had people recite 'shayari on mangoes', besides a mango eating contest that also took place in the festival, followed by live band performance. 
 Not just adults, the kids too were entertained at the festival with a contest for the best mango-based emoticon drawing organised for them titled Rasbhari Aamshala. The kids also helped promote awareness about the environment by planting the seeds after eating mangoes, promoting tree plantation. 
 By Adnaan Rizvi
  
  (L) Jyotsna Habibullah and Vipul Varshney (R) Priyanka (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav)
 
  
  (L) R V Rajpoot (R) Ruchi Jain and Manjari (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav)
 
  
  (L) Pyagya and Sugandha Srivastava (R) Diya Badgel (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav)
 
