PATNA: The   (SIT) of Patna police submitted the second chargesheet of around 8,000 pages against 18 accused, including former   ( ) secretary Parmeshwar Ram, in the   case. The chargesheet was submitted before the special vigilance court-I of judge Madhukar Kumar. 

 The SIT had submitted the first set chargesheet in the case on May 4 against Pawan Kumar, Vipin Kumar and Navneet Kumar, who were arrested while attempting to leak question papers a day before the February 5 examination for 13,120 intermediate level clerical posts. Later, the state government scrapped the five-phase examination and constituted an SIT to probe the scam in which the then BSSC chairman and senior IAS official Sudhir Kumar is also in jail.
 
 Parmeshwar, along with BSSC data entry operator Avinash Kumar, was arrested on February 8 this year after the SIT seized several admit cards and other documents of candidates in a raid on Bhootnath Road under Agamkuan police station area in Patna. 
 
 The other accused against whom chargesheet was submitted were Random Coaching Institute proprietor Ramesh Kumar alias Rameshwar, railway employee Alok Ranjan, Verma ITI proprietor Nitin Kumar alias Sanoj, AVN School manager Ramsumer Singh, its director Ramashish Singh Yadav and IT manager Mukesh Kumar, centre superintendent Gaurishankar Singh, land broker Anand Sharma, state water resources department clerk Sheel Bhadra Gupta posted at the secretariat, government teacher Atal Bihari Rai, candidate Om Prakash Gupta and touts Rishi Dev Singh, Dinesh Kumar Yadav, Anish Kumar and Guddu Kumar. "Chargesheets against 18 accused runs on more than 8,000 pages. In addition, several forensic science laboratory (FSL) reports inside sealed envelopes were also submitted by the SIT which would be opened in later stages of hearing," said vigilance special public prosecutors Vijay Kumar Sinha and Anandi Singh. 
 
  Meanwhile, an SIT team interrogated suspended IAS official Sudhir Kumar for more than an hour inside Phulwarisharif jail on Monday. Sources said Kumar was quizzed to get information before filing a final chargesheet against him. Kumar, along with some of his family members, were arrested on February 24. 
 
 
