NEW DELHI:   International School’s northern zone group head Francis Thomas, arrested in connection with the murder of a seven-year-old Class 2 student in the school premises in Gurgaon, requested the   on Wednesday to transfer the case from Sohna to Delhi.

  Thomas’s counsel K T S Tulsi said investigations into the case smacked of political bias as the school’s top managers were arrested on the direction of the Haryana education minister. He said constitutional rights of the accused were blatantly violated as Sohna and Gurgaon bar associations had passed resolutions and physically prevented legal assistance to the accused when they were produced before the trial court.
 
 Tulsi said in such a surcharged atmosphere, a fair trial appeared a remote possibility and requested the court to transfer the case outside Haryana, preferably to Saket district courts in south Delhi. “In the interim, Haryana police can be directed to ensure that the accused get assistance of lawyers,” he said.
 
 A bench headed by Chief Justice Dipak Misra said Thomas’s petition would be scheduled for hearing on Monday. “In the interim, we are not inclined to involve Haryana police in this issue. Nothing will happen till then,” the bench said. 
 
 Thomas said Pradyuman’s murder was “not only the darkest hour for the family but to the institution also”. He added, “As a security measure, close circuit cameras were placed in the corridors covering the entrance of the washroom. Precisely because of CCTV, the culprit could be identified immediately. The school management took immediate action in informing the police and provided CCTV footage leading to his arrest almost immediately.”
 
 Thomas said though he was not involved in the day to day running of  , Sohna Road, Gurgaon, he was arrested three days after the incident after the Haryana education minister directed the police to book the school’s top management under Section 75 of Juvenile Justice Act. 
 
 Section 75 provides, “Whoever, having the actual charge of, or control over, a child, assaults, abandons, abuses, exposes or wilfully neglects the child or causes or procures the child to be assaulted, abandoned, abused, exposed or neglected in a manner likely to cause such child unnecessary mental or physical suffering, shall be punished with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three years or with fine of one lakh rupees or with both.”
 
 Thomas said because of the resolutions passed by the two bar associations, his lawyers were physically prevented by local advocates from representing him when he was produced before the magistrate. Both the Constitution and criminal law mandated that an accused must be provided adequate and effective opportunity to defend himself, he said. “If an accused remains unrepresented by a lawyer, the trial court has a duty to ensure that he was provided with proper legal aid,” Thomas added.
 
 “Petitioner is not being allowed to be represented by a counsel and thus is unable to defend himself, which is a sheer violation of his constitutional rights and an utter breach of principles of natural justice,” he said.
 
 
