GHAZIPUR: Amid the much hyped battle between BSP’s Sibghatullah Ansari and BJP’s Alka Rai, a village in   is trying hard to cover its shady past. Local residents still avoid visiting Pashchim Chhor (western end) of Basuka village, the portion dominated by members of Nat community of Muslims. 

 Villagers who had shunned the community for decades, elected Razia Begum, a young Nat woman in her early 30s as Pradhan in 2015. “The historic movement could not have been achieved without support of Shri Shambu Nath Rai,” said Razia talking to TOI on phone, adding, “A lot of families started sending girls to schools. The community is also taking interest in weaving and embroidery.” She was out with her husband Shoaib to campaign for a candidate covering villages off Tarigat–Bara state highway. Razia is an important figure as she has the capability of swinging close to 1,200 Nat and 700 minority votes in her favour.
 
 The community is also trying to convince six to eight houses which are still in business, to join the mainstream society. “But they have been asked to solicit clients outside the village. They travel with troupe to perform (mujra) in other states apart from different districts in eastern UP,” said a village resident.
 
 There was a time when people used to visit for entertainment Basuka, which was infamous for nurturing tawayaf (female dancers/courtesans). Women forced their daughters into the trade and the girls grew around tabla, harmonium, ghungroo and ustaad, not knowing who their father was. For an outsider, it was difficult to access the ghetto without knowing a local.
 
 Till up to three decades back, a lot of women in Pashchim Chhor made a living as courtesan of well-heeled zamindars. It was an era of mujras. But by late 1980s and early 90s, fed up of constant harassment, many females shifted to Mumbai, Kolkata and other places as bar dancers or sex workers. Immoral trafficking act was amended in 1986 and policemen often landed at their doorstep for money. But things are changing now.
 
 Meanwhile, a man with strong views on social issues is meeting 8,500 people in Basuka, Shambu Nath Rai (75) is advocating NOTA. As a youth, Rai led from the front during the JP movement while he worked as advocate in Bihar and ensured Razia’s victory in panchayat elections. He would vote for the first time on March 8. “Parties talk about development but in reality UP election is being fought over religion or caste,” shared Rai airing his views on existing political scenario.
 
 Rai lambasted the sitting MLAs from Mohammadabad assembly segment (BSP’s Sibghatullah Ansari) and Zamania assembly segment (SP’s O P Singh) for not developing important roads. “Pregnant women have been forced to abort child due to complications. The road is so bumpy they had miscarriage while going to the hospital,” said Rai. He feels Supreme Court will take a strong view on the existing political system if significant number of voters will press NOTA. “And that is why I have decided to vote for the first time,” he said.
 
 
