HYDERABAD: It turned out to be a tense Tuesday morning for guests at the Katriya Hotel & Towers, in the heart of the city, after a stack of mattresses stored in the house-keeping area of the hotel went up in flames.

 The fire, which started on the fourth floor, soon spread to the fifth and sixth floors, causing panic among people witness to the incident. They recalled how thick smoke was seen billowing from the three floors even as guests rushed out of their rooms in panic.
 
 Out of the 225 rooms present in the hotel, 20 were damaged in the accident, stated the initial findings of the state disaster response and fire services department. It found the hotel unsafe for habitation. “The fire was of electric origin and ignited mattresses and other fabric stored in the shaft around the lift. Fourth and fifth floors saw maximum damage,“ a statement issued by the department read.
 
 Further inquiry is on to ascertain the actual worth of property gutted in the accident. Three fire tenders, rushed in from   and Secretariat, took over an hour to bring the situation under control. As part of its rescue operation, fire fighters dropped ropes from the terrace to the affected floors to reach out to guests, if any . Though no injuries or casualties were reported, about 30 people caught in the midst of the mishap later checked out and shifted into nearby hotels.
 
 “We were in a room on the sixth floor when the incident took place. Initially we were a little worried but later, once the fire was controlled, we knew we were safe. We have decided to stay on,“ said one of the guests, on condition of anonymity.
 
 Post the accident, the hotel authorities disconnected electricity supply to the building, which was restored several hours later. “We turned off the electricity to avoid fur ther dama g e,“ said an employee.
 
 The fire department said it did not have a functional fire-fighting system. In its statement, the department said that it would initiate action not against the owner of Katriya hotel. “Under Section 31 of the Andhra Pradesh Fire Service Act, 1999, prosecution is initiated against the 689 builders owners, who have failed to provide the required fire safety measures so far and pending in various civil courts," the statement said.
 
