Kolkata/Darjeeling: Mamata Banerjee on Sunday packed a surprise by picking former GNLF leader Shanta Chhetri and former Congress MLA Manas Bhuiyan – both veteran state legislators – as the party’s candidates for the forthcoming   polls on June 8.

 While the renomination of Trinamool heavyweights Derek O’Brien, Sukhendu Sekhar Roy and Dola Sen was a foregone conclusion, there was considerable speculation on the remaining two candidates who, given the party’s numerical superiority in the assembly, are sure to be elected. The West Bengal chief minister, however, chose political veterans to steer Trinamool in the Upper House, shedding her usual penchant for nominating people from diverse fields to Rajya Sabha. Banerjee dubbed it a “very good team”
 
 Speaking to TOI, Bhuiyan said: “I am in Purulia now. I am expected to return to Kolkata on Monday. I will speak to my party leadership first and then take a decision.” The decision mentioned by Bhuiyan referred to whether or not he should put in his papers as an MLA. 
 
 Bhuiyan is facing proceedings in the assembly under the anti-defection law. “A resignation, therefore, makes the proceedings redundant,” said senior lawyer Arunava Ghosh. The resignation of the six-time MLA from Sabang will vacate the West Midnapore assembly seat paving the way for a bypoll.
 
 It was Chhetri’s nomination, however, that left all stumped. According to sources, Trinamool chief Banerjee was first toying with the idea of nominating former national soccer captain and Sikkim-born Bhaichung Bhutia; Chhetri, however, tipped the scales at the last moment. 
 
 Trinamool, which has managed to gain a toehold in the Mirik municipality in the Hills, the first plains party to do so in three decades, is trying to project local leaders to take on Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (GJM). Banerjee told reporters: “I am very happy that there is now a representative from the Hills as well. People always exploit the Hills but don’t give anything in return. I am happy I have been able to give back something to the Hills”.
 
 GJM assistant general secretary Binay Tamang said: “On behalf of my party, I congratulate Shanta didi for being nominated from the hills. It is good that a Gorkha ‘cheli’ (sister) will be in Rajya Sabha. I hope when the issue of separate state is placed in the Upper House, she will support the cause. She was a three-time MLA with GNLF party, riding on the statehood demand.” 
 
 Other Gorkhas from the Hills who had served as RS MPs were Maya Devi Chhetri, Badri Narayan Pradhan, K B Chhetri, T S Gurung, Dawa Lama, R B Rai and Saman Pathak. Shanta Chhetri, the former three-time GNLF’s Kurseong MLA, had lost the 2016 assembly polls as a Trinamool candidate. She had contested the May 14 civic election from ward 7 of Kurseong municipality but lost to Shyam Sherpa, the GJM candidate. “I sincerely thank Didi for having faith in me and nominating me for the Rajya Sabha MP election. As MP, I will follow my party’s directives and also give my best to work to help people of my region,” Chhetri said.
 
 For Derek, the party’s parliamentary party leader in the Rajya Sabha, the party’s national spokesperson and appointed party vice-president, a second term only vindicated the party chief’s faith in him to steer the tricky arithmetic in the Upper House. Likewise for Roy, who is Trinamool’s deputy leader in RS the Upper House and Sen, who is the party’s trade wing state president. Banerjee dubbed it a “very good team”.
 
 (With inputs from Deep Gazmer in Darjeeling)
 
 
