MUMBAI: The SC on Friday paved the way for authorities to approve plans for redevelopment of a 32-acre   sprawl—one and half times size of Oval Maidan—in Cuffe Parade as it dismissed a special leave petition by Plymouth Constructions Pvt Ltd and its director Vikram Mittal. Plymouth had challenged a 2013 Bombay HC order which rejected its plea that stated a proposal it had submitted in 2004 was valid and ought to be considered.

 A proposal submitted in April 2012 by Precaution Properties Pvt Ltd, a wholly owned subsidiary of Shapoorji Pallonji &Co, is pending with the Slum Rehabilitation Authority (SRA). The company that belongs to  , father of  , claims to have over 80% support of the 2,700 eligible slumdwellers. If approved, it will mark the launch of Mumbai’s most valuable slum rehabilitation project in recent times. The 25% ready reckoner value for the premium on free sale component that a builder would have to pay to the state is estimated to be over Rs 700 crore. Several other developers including Loga Realty, Dyna Enterprise and Rushmina Builders too had intervened in the SC to say that their plans for the high-stake Cuffe Parade sprawl should be considered. 
 
 In HC, Plymouth’s case was that it had submitted a holistic infrastructure and slum renewal plan for the Cuffe Parade slums. But a high-power committee, in February 2010, rejected Plymouth’s plea, saying it was not in accordance with prescribed procedures. Plymouth took the battle to the SC which on October 1, 2013 allowed SRA to process pending proposal but not to pass any final orders.
 
 The Plymouth plea was listed by a bench of Justices Arun Mishra and Abdul Nazeer for final hearing on April 7. On Friday, however, a Plymouth advocate alleged before a bench of Chief Justice of India JS Khehar, DY Chandrachud and SK Kaul that the SC registry had “manipulated” the constitution of a “special bench” for the hearing. He later tendered an apology after which the bench of Justices Mishra and Nazeer heard the matter. 
 
 Plymouth’s counsel   said its proposal was submitted to the correct authority and was valid. He sought an adjournment, which the bench did not grant and proceeded to hear counsels   and Cherag Balsara for Precaution who said the Plymouth proposal was incomplete. Gopal Subramanian, former solicitor general for the HPC, said the Plymouth proposal had come to the SRA later.   appearing for SRA said the correct authority to file slum proposals was the SRA and not MMRDA.
 
