BENGALURU: Family members of  , 40, who was in a coma for more than nine months at a hospital in Saudi Arabia, will finally get to see him on Friday. 

 Notwithstanding all their efforts to woo the   to lend them a helping hand, the family could not see him or pay the bill, amounting to nearly Rs 1 crore. Abubakar is finally returning, thanks to the benevolence of the Riyadh hospital which has decided to waive his dues. He will be brought to a hospital in Bengaluru. A TOI report dated January 20 had highlighted Abubakar’s woes.
 
 Employed with a courier company in Riyadh, Abubakar slipped into coma after a road accident. Belonging to Udupi district’s Shiroor, about 10km from Bhatkal in coastal Karnataka, he remained speechless throughout his treatment. His family’s attempts to bring him back — they even approached minister of external affairs   — didn’t yield the desired results.
 
 Dr Wasim Maani, who is coordinating Abubakar’s return, told TOI from Riyadh: “After everything else failed, the CEO of Prince Mohammed Bin Abdulaziz Hospital told us we could take him back home without paying the bill.” He said the hospital decided to waive the bill after seeing the relentless efforts being made by the Indian Muslim community in Riyadh. The hospital has not responded to TOI’s query.
 
 “The family is very poor, and we have collected money to transport him to India, which will cost a little over Rs 4 lakh. He will be admitted to   in Bengaluru. An ambulance will pick him up from the airport soon after we land at 6am on Friday,” Wasim said.
 
 UP patient will also be sent back 
 
 Authorities of Prince Mohammed Bin Abdulaziz Hospital are willing to waive the dues of another patient, Mohammed Ikmal, 45, from Uttar Pradesh. He’s been in coma for nearly seven months now.
 
 “When the CEO agreed to send Abubakar home after several representations made by us, he said we must also take the responsibility of taking Ikmal back. He too comes from a poor family. We don’t have more details about him, but we have promised the hospital that we will help him. The process is likely to take a week or two,” Dr Wasim said. He said Ikmal will be taken to either Delhi or Lucknow, depending on the family’s convenience. Financial arrangements are yet to be made.
 
