PATNA: The city would wear a festive look for three days as the stage is set for the 105th   celebrations starting on Wednesday.

 Gandhi Maidan was abuzz with activities on Tuesday with hundreds of workers busy giving final touches to the stalls and pavilions of different departments of the state government. Around 40 stalls have been erected besides a stage at Gandhi Maidan for the main events, including music and dance shows.
 
 Noted singer Sunidhi Chauhan will perform on Wednesday. Malini Awasthi and Akriti Kakkar are among other artists who would regale the audience on the next two days. Cultural activities would also be organized at S K Memorial Hall during the three-day celebrations.
 
 Chief minister Nitish Kumar would launch the free Wi-Fi facility in 200 educational institutions in the state during the inaugural event on Wednesday, starting at 5pm. The Wi-Fi facility was earlier proposed to be launched on February 20, but it was postponed owing to legislative council election.
 
 Besides, Bihar State Tourism Development Corporation (BSTDC) has set up a food court with around 50 stalls, which would offer multiethnic cuisines. Even street food stalls from across the country would be there to tickle the taste buds of the visitors.
 
 The organizers have planned laser shows on all three days at Gandhi Maidan from 6:30pm. The laser show would be based on the theme of Mahatma Gandhi’s Champaran visit in 1917 and prohibition in Bihar.
 
 “All preparations for Bihar Diwas have been completed. There are 40 small stalls and around 12 pavilions, which have been allotted to different departments and agencies of the state government. CM Nitish Kumar will open the celebrations at Gandhi Maidan,” said Sanjay Singh, director at Bihar Education Project, the nodal agency for Bihar Diwas celebrations.
 
 Bihar Diwas is celebrated to commemorate the foundation day of the state. Bihar was carved out of united Bengal in 1912. Before that, Bengal, Bihar, Jharkhand and Orissa were part of the Bengal province during the British rule. The Nitish government started celebrating Bihar Diwas in 2012 to mark its centenary.
 
 Officials said entry to Gandhi Maidan would be free from all 11 gates. A parking lot for VVIPS (200 vehicles) has been earmarked on the left side of the main stage. Common people can park their vehicles inside Gandhi Maidan in front of Mona Cinema and RBI building. Considering the large gathering of people for the mega event, security measures have also been beefed up.
 
 
