CHANDIGARH: An hour-long event that was organized by the UT for awareness of consumers on World Consumer Rights Day was limited to a closed group of authorities, including UT administrator and other officials and a few members of consumer associations.

 The seminar was productive but it did not ensure public awareness about consumer rights, said a few residents.
 
 “This was just a celebration not an awareness drive. It would have been wonderful if food and supplies department had included members of   and students of colleges. Instead of organizing this seminar and wasting huge amount, the council members headed by deputy commissioner should reach out to kids of schools and students from colleges and  ,“ Said  , chairman, Youth Innovative Society.
 
 The need for some major steps was reiterated by many who attended the seminar.
 
 “The administration must be aiming at empowering the associations who further spread awareness through closed-group seminar but there is certainly need for more. The administration needs to strengthen alternate redressal system. It is duty of the administration to give due publicity to the initiative undertaken to help the consumers to take maximum benefits,“ said N K Jhingan, organizing secretary, Consumers Association.
 
 Sharing an example about an extent to which public was unaware of their rights and redressal mechanisms, he said, “For instance, the consumer helpline started by the department for helping the aggrieved customer is not known to maxi mum people, which is why it has not received great response. If we are receiving less number of complaints through helpline now, it means either customers have no complaints or do not rely on the department whether the officials are able to solve their problem or not. But the increase in number of cases consumer courts says that there are regular violations of consumer rights.“
 
 “There is a strict need to strengthen our mechanism so that every businessman or service provider has a fear in their mind that the administration has power to take severe action if he fails to deliver his best. The NGO must give some powers to deal with the complaints of consumers before going to court. It will save time and money,“ he added.
 
 Jagga said, “The seminar on the World Consumer Rights Day has set the agenda for the consumer protection in city and now there is a need to implement the agenda to make the consumers aware about each and every right they have.“
 
 Earlier, the department of food and supplies and consumer affairs and legal metrology, Chandigarh, in collaboration with Consumers Association, Chandigarh, organized a seminar at   for awareness of consumers about their rights, duties and references to the protection of the consumer interests against any kind of exploitation by the trade and industry. Lectures on consumer awareness were delivered by representatives of the association. The representatives expounded the importance of being aware about rights of consumers. They also addressed the gathering regarding food adulteration, legal provisions and remedies available to the citizens aggrieved by food adulteration.
 
