NEW DELHI: The case of the two girls who suffered burn injuries when the car they were in caught fire in Sultanpuri on Thursday took a tragic turn on Friday when both succumbed to   on their upper bodies. A day after the incident, police are yet to get to the bottom of what caused the fire and could only surmise after preliminary forensic examination that the kids might have got hold of a matchbox in the car and accidently thrown a lit match on the foam seating.

 Recalling the Thursday morning incident, Mahesh, the girls’ uncle, said, “We were all at home, and as they normally did every morning, Dipanshi and Lakshita were playing together outside. We were all getting ready to go to our factory (the family makes paper rolls) when we heard our mother, Sheela Devi, screaming.”
 
 They rushed outside to see smoke emanating from the Maruti Swift Dzire parked in the garage. The car had been purchased two years ago, ironically on Dipanshi’s birthday. “We didn’t hear the children calling out for help, so presuming that there was no one inside the car, we didn’t bother to call the cops,” said Mahesh on Friday. “We pushed the car out of the garage and began to throw water on it.”
 
 In the hubbub, no one noticed the girls inside the car until much later. “Everybody was so involved in trying to douse the fire that no one noticed Dipanshi and Lakshita were not around,” grieved Manoj, Lakshita’s father. The children’s grandmother enquired at one point about their whereabouts, but no one seemed to know where they were.
 
 A little later, the grandmother saw the feet of one of the tots amid the smoke inside the car. “We informed the cops who reached our house promptly and helped us break down the car doors. The girls were unconscious when we pulled them out,” said Manoj. 
 
 Pankaj Singh, additional DCP I (Outer), said that a police team had rushed to the house in Krishna Vihar as soon as they received a request for help. “Inside the car, we found the two girls lying conscious on their backs,” said Singh. “We took them to Safdarjung Hospital, but unfortunately, they succumbed to their injuries on Friday afternoon.”
 
 The cops said that the children had sustained 50% burns on their upper bodies. Lakshita was to have turned three in a fortnight and the family had planned a grand birthday for the youngest member of the family. 
 
 “The fire probably started after the girls found a box of matchsticks in the car. A lit match must have fallen on the seats and the foam caught fire and spread quickly,” said an officer on Friday after the car was sent for forensic examination. 
 
 
