JAIPUR: By-poll for the   assembly seat will be held on April 9, while the counting of votes will take place on April 13. The seat fell vacant after BSP legislator B L Kushwah got disqualified upon being convicted in a murder case last year.

 The   declared the by-poll date on Thursday while announcing the schedule for by-elections to three parliamentary and 12 assembly constituencies across the country. With the declaration of elections, the model code of conduct has come into force in the constituency areas that will go to polls.
 
 Notification for the Dholpur by-poll will be issued on March 14 and nominations will be accepted till March 21. Last date for withdrawal of candidatures is March 24.
 
 “Persons who were 18 years or above on January 1, 2017 and whose names were included in the voter list issued on January 16, 2017, shall be eligible to cast votes,” said  , the chief electoral officer in Rajasthan.
 
 Bhagat said voters have to carry their electronic photo-identity cards to cast votes. Electronic Voting Machines (EVMs) will be used at all the 172 polling stations—42 in urban areas and 130 in rural areas—in the Dholpur assembly constituency. The constituency has more than 1.82 lakh registered voters, including over 95,000 male voters and over 85,000 female voters.
 
 “Sensitive polling booths, if any, will be identified on the basis of administrative and police reports that we will seek on daily basis from the district magistrate and the Superintendent of Police,” said Bhagat.
 
 The Dholpur by-poll will be a prestige issue for the ruling BJP and the opposition Congress, as both parties would try to present the election outcome as a reflection of people’s opinion on the three years’ performance of the present government.
 
 The constituency is also the home turf of chief minister Vasundhara Raje and the BJP began preparing for the by-election since January this year. As a first step it inducted Shobharani, the wife of convicted ex-legislator Kushwah in February. BJP state president   and health minister Kali Charan Saraf specially went to Dholpur for the programme in which   was inducted into BJP. Sources said BJP is likely to field her as its candidate from the Dholpur seat.
 
