PUNE: Director of Carnegie India and foreign policy analyst C Raja Mohan on Friday said India needed a greater reflection on the much-anticipated technological transformations from areas like artificial intelligence (AI), robotics and synthetic biology, among others.

 “These areas are going to transform the economy and will dictate how we cope with the changes world over,” he said at the inaugural session of the third ‘Pune Dialogue on National Security – 2017’.
 
 Maintaining that there was hardly any debate on these aspects, he said, “The government, in a belated move, has appointed a committee on AI, but structurally, things are going to be much larger. India currently lacks the ability to have a dialogue and a policy on AI and cyber security. It’s time for us to address these transformations as these are the factors that can be a threat to the national security in the near future.” 
 
 On the debate over use of AI in warfare technology, Mohan said the need was also to integrate the private sector in the national defence policies.
 
 Assumptions that prevailed 25 years ago about the US, China, internet and technology have all taken a beating. “The world has moved towards a multipolar system from an unipolar one, with people within the US questioning its power,” he said, adding that the rise of China and growing assertiveness of Russia are an indicator to this.
 
 Opposition to globalization has come from the West itself, he said citing ‘Brexit’. Old institutions such as  ,   and   are all under stress. Digital technology is bound to unleash a whole new system with far-reaching impact on warfare, he added. 
 
 Mohan said, “The rise of China as the world’s second largest economy has been the most impactful event. China has capitalised on its fast growth and huge availability of capital. We can now find China replacing the US as the world leader. In the Asian sub-continent, it has presence in every country and has almost replaced India as a dominant force.”
 
 India must recognise that it is impossible to stop or curtail China, he said, adding that India must create a proper policy and framework for the relations in the subcontinent and with China.
 
 The two-day dialogue is jointly organized by the Pune International Centre ( ),   (PPF), Delhi, and the Centre for Advanced Strategic Studies, Pune. It focuses on India’s strategic position in the new world, extremist trends and the concerns about national security. 
 
 PIC president Raghunath Mashelkar said inequality and climate change are the two biggest challenges faced by the world today. “The national security has become a huge concern because of the easy access of technology to anyone across the world. Cyber threats, meddling in elections, threats to disrupt power supplies or even daily lives have become a reality. As the 21st century is known as the century of the mind, we must recognise its importance,” he said.
 
  secretary Vijay Kelkar and Air Marshal Bhushan Gokhale (retd), who is the convener of PDNS, were present.
 
