PANAJI:   believes everything happens for a reason.

 The newly-appointed Portuguese coach of the India U-17 football squad preparing for the Fifa World Cup later this year at home believes destiny has brought him to Goa, a place that he grew up hearing lovely stories about, but, unlike the rest of his family, never really had the time to visit.
 
 “My great granduncle stayed in India for 10 years somewhere in 1890s and started a career in colonial administration. At that time, he helped the English with the organisation and was based in Goa and Daman,” Luis told TOI during an exclusive interview at a plush South Goa hotel on Tuesday.
 
 Turns out, Luis’s great granduncle is General Norton de Matos, former Portuguese ambassador to the United Kingdom, governor-general of Angola and a Presidential candidate in 1949. He was also Portugal’s Minister of War during the First World War and died in 1955.
 
 “I have lot of memories about Goa because I kept hearing about this place while growing up. My father, mother, uncles have all been here and all of them tell me it’s a fantastic place. My mother in particular said Goa has a special, positive atmosphere,” said Luis, who was selected as coach after the departure of former German coach Nicolai Adam, accused of abusing the players, physically and verbally.
 
 Luis, 63, arrived in Goa on Saturday and has already kick-started training at the Trinity ground in Benaulim.
 
 “I am very happy to be here and my family is delighted too. I think it’s destiny that has chosen me (for this assignment). It’s amazing.
 
 “What I remember most about Goa is our Christmas day celebrations. At my grandfather’s house, we always ate curry (on Christmas day), even though it’s not a tradition. I cannot forget the curry; it brought tears to my eyes. It’s so spicy but fantastic,” said Luis.
 
 A former Portuguese striker, Luis started his coaching career with second divisioners Club Atletico in 1989 and it wasn’t until 2005 that he got a chance to coach a team in the top-flight of Portuguese football when he was signed up as coach by Vitoria de Setubal. He later worked as football director at Sporting Lisbon and took charge of the Guinea-Bissau national team.
 
 He was recommended for the job by Manchester United coach Jose Mourinho and Portugal’s Euro 2016 winning coach Fernando Santos.
 
