The most vibrant of all the festivals,   fills the atmosphere with fun and great enthusiasm. But the harsh colours and the chemicals present in them can leave your skin and parts such as eyes, ears and hair feeling nasty. Play safe and do not forget to take appropriate precautions before you hit the ground. In case you ingest colours or they get into your eyes or ears, don’t panic as we bring to you a few first-aid tips:

 
  If dry colour gets into your eyes, thoroughly wash your eyes as it can lead to long-term irritation. Use tap water, not too cold or hot. Continue to rinse your eyes until the colour is properly washed. If you still feel discomfort, consult a doctor immediately.
 
 
  Harsh colours may leave your skin itchy and stingy. After you're done playing with colours, take a bath with lukewarm water. After the bath, apply a moisturizer to soothe your skin. But if you experience itchiness or any other serious symptom appears like redness or rashes on the skin, consult skin specialist as soon as possible. 
 
 Since lemon contains bleaching properties, rubbing lemon on your skin also helps in getting rid of  . But after using lemon on your skin, don't forget to apply moisturizer.
 
 
 Ears are often neglected as we get busy in cleaning other body parts. We understand that it is tough to clean ears but what should you do if colours get into the ears? Oiling is the best way to clean them. Put a few drops of olive oil or lukewarm mustard oil in cotton and keep it inside your ears. Remember, the cotton swab should be placed in such a way inside the ears that it doesn’t get deep into the ear hole. 
 
 
 Gargle with water and wash off the colours that you have ingested. One precautionary method that you should take while playing Holi is not to eat anything without washing hands. While playing, people tend to eat food and snacks without cleaning their hands.
 
 
  Wash your hair with mild shampoo and use hair conditioner after washing them. Once colour gets off your hair, deep condition your hair. You may also apply hair mask after two or three days, but make sure that colour is properly removed.
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
