INDORE: The Indore bench of high court had some hard-hitting observations on police while ordering a   probe into why an FIR was not registered against   policemen accused of beating up   jawans in September 2015. In the detailed order, the court has clearly said that the “circumstances are such that police officials may not be able to conduct the investigation fairly or impartially”.

 This is one of the grounds on the basis of which the investigation was handed over to CBI. The HC noted that though the young Armymen were beaten by policemen, and their medical reports are on record, police did not investigate the case properly at all. Regarding the allegation made by police that the Army jawans were drinking in public, the court mentions in its order that “consumption of liquor at a public place (by Army jawans) is beyond imagination”.
 
 In the 24-page order, the court has pointed out that while police promptly registered three FIRs against Army officials for vandalizing the police station, no FIR was registered against police despite compelling medical evidence. The court observed that the role of police is “protection of life, liberty and property of citizens” with investigation of offences being one of its foremost duties. The aim of the investigation is to search for the truth and bring offender to the book, the HC says.
 
 The court has ordered police to hand over the case diary and all other evidence to CBI and cooperate in the investigation. “We will follow all the directions of the court and cooperate with the enquiry as ordered by the honourable high court,” DIG   said.
 
 The Army court is also waiting for the case diary and other documents. “There are two matters of investigation pending before the Army court. One is the departmental enquiry initiated by the Army against the personnel who allegedly vandalized Vijay Nagar police station. And another is the case registered by police against Army personnel, which the high court has ordered to be transferred to the Army court. In the pending departmental enquiry, the police officials have not appeared before the court of enquiry to give their statements. In the transferred case, the Army court has not yet received the case diary and related documents.” said additional solicitor general Deepak Rawal.
 
