KORAPUT: Nine girls from the  , a particularly vulnerable tribal group, residing in   district have cleared the matriculation examination, the results of which were declared last week. While five of them passed the examination with D grade, two each cleared the examination in B2 and B grades respectively. The students were studying at the special educational complex, Parsali, in Kalyansinghpur block. It was managed by the ST and   development department. 

 "Though, earlier, Dongria Kondh boys have passed matriculation examination, for the first time girls have cleared the examination and it is a proud moment for both the community and the administration," said sub-collector (Rayagada) Muralidhar Swain. Officials said the students were studying from Class I to X at the educational complex and last year all efforts were made to ensure that the students pass the matriculation examination. 
 
 "The results are very satisfactory. Every care was taken to ensure better results in the   examination. While the teacher-student ratio was maintained at the educational complex to make sure that academic activities are not hampered, special care was provided to weak students," collector (Rayagada) Guha Poonam Tapas Kumar. According to the collector, the official concerned made regular visits to the educational complex and extra classes were also taken for the benefit of the students. 
 
 Officials said to ensure that the students do not discontinue their studies, it has been decided to admit the students at Kailashpur and Siripur sevashrams (residential school meant for SC and ST students) managed by the SSD departments. "I am very happy after passing the matriculation examination and I am thankful to my parents and teachers for their guidance and constant support. I want to became an administrative officer in future," said an elated Mamita Kadraka, who passed the examination securing B2 grade. The administration will felicitate all the nine students on Wednesday. 
 
 At least 8,942 Dongria Kondh resides in 102 villages situated across the   hill.
 
