BENGALURU: With assembly elections approaching, political parties are desperately wooing an emerging vote bank -cab drivers.

 While the Congress-led government has promised to fix minimum fares to ensure drivers associated with cab aggregators like Ola and Uber earn a steady income, the JD(S) has gone a step further and assured them to roll out its new taxi app.
 
 Bengaluru is home to over 1.47 lakh  .
 
 Cashing in on the protest staged by aggrieved cabbies in February against reduced income and steep targets for incentives, the JD(S) had offered them a more lucrative option for employment at HDK Cabs -named after JD(S) state chief HD Kumaraswamy ­ by Ugadi. But the promise is yet to see the light of day.Now, the proposed HDK Cabs has been renamed Namma Tiger Cab Service. Miffed over the delay in its launch, some disgruntled drivers have joined Hi Cabs, another taxihailing service.
 
 In the past, political parties have sucessfully used popular modes of commute as a vehicle to spread their message. In its cleverly-planned election campaign in 2013, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) used autorickshaws to build on the anti-incumbency wave in New Delhi. Not only were autos plastered with their posters but drivers too struck up conversations with passengers over the failure of the then Sheila Dixit government and the hope AAP offered.
 
 A senior transport department official said: “The government wants to fix minimum fares before the assembly elections as a majority of the taxi drivers in the city are unhappy because of re duced earnings“.
 
 
 
 
 Sources said taxi drivers are unhappy as they feel the government refused to intervene in the issue even after their protests, and the main opposition party, BJP, also remained a mute spectator. With a considerable number of cab drivers in Bengaluru belonging to several districts in Karnataka, they could influence their family members and friends during the upcoming elections. Tanveer Pasha, former presi dent of Ola, TaxiForSure, Uber (OTU) Drivers and Owners Association said: “Most taxi drivers are frustrated and are even selling their cabs because of decreased earnings. Private financiers are seizing vehicles as drivers are struggling to pay EMIs“.
 
 Pasha, also the leader of JD(S)' transport wing, said the JD(S)backed Namma Tiger Cab Service will be launched by the monthend. “The app will be available for download on Google Play Store in a few days. It will safeguard the interests of drivers as well as commuters,“ he added.
 
 V J K Nair, general secretary ,   (CITU), Karnataka, said, “Most cab drivers are exploited by companies. We have extended our support to them but don't have the financial resources to compete with the companies (aggregators) by developing a mobile application.“
 
