Being a part of a social media group, they had only been online friends till they met each other for the first time for a trip recently.  ,  ,   and   — four of them from different professions — an auditor, a maternity expert, a teacher and a HR professional respectively. But they have one thing in common — their love for Kalki’s  . The discussions that they started online culminated in the trip, to trace the history of Chola kingdom as they visited the places narrated in the book, starting from Veeranam Lake in Cuddalore to Kodiyakarai, which is at the southern tip of Tamil Nadu.

 “I am surprised that my blog has found so much traction after I penned down our experiences of this four-day trip,” starts Nithya as she takes time off from her busy work schedule to share more details about their trip with us. “We thought we would never make this trip. Each of us has been busy with both our professional and personal lives. But we decided to keep aside everything else for these four days. I must say that it’s nothing, but the love for Ponniyin Selvan that brought all the four of us together. By the first half of our trip, we were sure that all of us thoroughly enjoyed each other’s company,” she says. Agreeing with her, Sripadma notes, “It’s not that we all read Ponniyin Selvan at the same time. I must have read it four or five years ago, but when this discussion started on the group, it kind of rekindled the interest in me.”
 
 Though they started discussing about the trip in February, it took a month for them to finalise the itinerary. “It was a four-day trip. We started on March 30 and we were back in Chennai on April 2. On the first day, our first stop was at Veeranam Lake and from there we went to Kadambur, Maligaimedu and also to Gangaikonda Cholapuram. Actually, Gangaikonda Cholapuram is not part of Ponniyin Selvan, but Raja Raja Chozhan’s (the main characters of the book) son, Rajendra Chozhan , had constructed a temple there, which is very similar to the Brihadeeswarar Temple (Thanjavur big temple) built by his father. At Maligaimedu, we only found the palace ruins of Rajendra Chozhan. We stayed at Kumbakonam overnight before we continued the journey the next day,” says Nithya.
 
 Next morning, they first headed to Pazhuvur. And from there to Nathan Koil which is the site of Panchavan Maadevi Pallipadai. “Those days, temples were built over the remains of a noble person and this was built by Rajendra Chozhan for his stepmother Panchavan Maadevi. Another important place we visited on the second day was Chozhan Maaligai. It is a village now, but you would find a lot of ruins in the place. The local villagers say that patta has been given to private property companies and they build houses all across the area. Also, locals say that the many archeologically important things that are buried underground, but the land owners don’t hand them over to the museum even if they find anything while digging. Pazhaiyarai was where we headed to next. There we saw one of the brick temples from the early Chola period and found the sculptures there quite unique. For example, we saw the sculpture of a naga kanyaka, the lady form of the serpent, which you don’t find in any other place. But the sad fact is that there had been several instances of theft. People would take away sculptures and sell them off for hefty prices. Though the Archeological Survey of India is quite vigilant now and ensures that such things don’t happen anymore, the damage has already been done. We also went to Darasuram, though it is not really relevant to Ponniyin Selvan. There also we found a lot of sculptures similar to the ones from the later Chola period,” she elaborates.
 
 Next day, four of them started with the Thanjavur big temple. Though not on a religious tour, they were quite keen on spending a good amount of time at the temple. Nithya says, “The inscriptions all over the temple tell you everything from important days, what offerings need to be done to the God to names of people involved in its construction. But the script of these inscriptions isn’t that easy to read as it belongs to old Tamil. We also saw Nisumba Soodhani deity, whom the Cholas worshipped before they went on war. And the final stop was at Kodiyakkarai, situated at the southern tip of Tamil Nadu. Back then, Cholas crossed over to Sri Lanka via Kodiyakkarai. Actually, in Ponniyin Selvan there is a mention about a war in Sri Lanka. Next, we’re planning a trip to Sri Lanka to see places mentioned in the book that are relevant to the Chola period. In Kodiyakkarai, there are three light houses — a brick one from Chola period, another from the British era and the current one. According to the book, the light house from the Chola period was in the sea, but now it’s very much on the beach. That night we stayed at Nagapattinam and started our journey back to Chennai only the next day.
 
 The trip, they say, has been an eye opener in many ways — in terms of changes to the environment and how temples from Chola period have stood the test of time. “In the book, the narrator talks about the fertile plains along this belt and the vastness of the Veeranam Lake. He tells us how the lake resembles an ocean. But today, there’s not even a single drop of water. However, the vastness of the lake is something that still amazes people. How temples in the area have stood the test of time is another fact that caught our attention. There could be a reason why there are more temples in the south than palaces. The locals say that when Mughals and British invaded, they destroyed the palaces, but the temples survived. They also claim that a cut on Siva lingam at Pazhaiyarai temple was made by the Mughals when they tried demolishing it, but couldn’t,” Nithya explains. 
 
 Interestingly, both Nithya and Sripadma tell us about some similarities they’ve seen in the film Bãhubali to that from Chola period. “Though we didn’t discuss about this, we all felt the same way, I guess. From the war strategies in the film to how the warriors make noise cheering when Bãhubalitakes oath as senathipathi — there are similar references in Udayar by Balakumaran on Raja Raja Chozhan building the Brihadeeswarar Temple in Thanjavur. The soldiers make similar noise banging their swords on to the shield and crying out Chozan, Chozan, Chozan... to get that energy,” says Sripadma. Nithya sums up saying, “Even the set looks similar to the Chola temples. Also, the way they worship a deity in the film is very similar to how Cholas used to do, offering prayers to Nisumba Soodhani. Though I don’t have the credentials to say that they are striking similarities, for someone who has read the books on Cholas and visited the places which they ruled, I find that the film has taken some inspirations from the Chola period.”
 
