HYDERABAD: The 75 lakh members of the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) will turn into an army of foot soldiers of the ruling party. A plan is being chalked out to have the members liaise between the people and the government. 

 More importantly, the members will have a key job for the Assembly polls scheduled to be held in 2019. Though the party leadership at the moment is confident of a smooth sailing in the next polls, it does not want partymen to be overconfident and remain in a state of inertia.
 
 Lakhs of people who have enrolled as members in the TRS will be drafted to give wide publicity at village level to various welfare schemes for the poor. In other words, the ground-level campaigning would have technically begun for the party. 
 
 When polls draw nearer, the TRS will not have to struggle too much to get its message across to the people. In fact, chief minister   himself has put the onus on the MLAs to make sure the numerous programmes of the government are publicized by them.
 
 "They will have to educate people about the government schemes that have been launched for various sections. The TRS members will also have to bring to the notice of the government if they find any lapses or if the benefits are not reaching the beneficiaries," TRS leader   said.
 
 Palla Rajeshwar Reddy, who is government whip in the   said   has a clear vision on how best the services of TRS members could be utilized.
 
 It may be mentioned here that the TRS membership had swelled to 75 lakh during the recent drive undertaken by the party. At the party's plenary at   on April 21, KCR had said with such a huge membership, TRS was one of the biggest political parties in the country.
 
 In a couple of weeks or so, the TRS members will be given a complete briefing on all the government schemes and the philosophy that drives the party and its leader, the chief minister.
 
 "Meetings with 10,000 people each day will be held in all the districts. There will be as many meetings as required to see that every member gets to understand the TRS and what it is doing for the people," Palla Rajeshwar Reddy said.
 
 Lakhs of people who have enrolled as members in the TRS will be drafted to give wide publicity at village level to various welfare schemes for the poor. In other words, the ground-level campaigning would have technically begun for the party.
 
