KOLHAPUR: The textile town of   — known for its unique blankets, towels and handloom fabrics — is all set to emerge as country’s hub for manufacturing uniforms for various institutions, informed Shri Solapur Readymade Kapad Utpadak Sangh officials on Thursday.

 Office-bearers of the organisation were in Pune to promote India's first International Uniform & Garments Exhibition that began in Solapur from January 5 and will conclude on January 7.
 
 “With adequate support from the state and central governments, Solapur can become a supplier of uniforms to the nation as the city and region has ample labour supply. With some elementary skill training they can become ready for the uniform manufacturing industry,” the officials said in a press conference.
 
 Nilesh Shah, vice president of the organization, said Solapur has close to 70 small units that manufacture uniforms and currently do a business of about Rs 600 crore — catering mainly to the school uniforms segment. “With support from central and state agencies Solapur can claim a much larger pie of the Rs 18,000 crore uniforms manufacturing business in India,” he said.
 
 The vice President (Sales & Marketing) of   MB Raghunath said Solapur is well connected by road and rail with the rest of the country and will be an ideal centre for wholesalers and retailers of uniforms to access. “The uniform industry is growing at 25-30% annually and the government can itself be a major buyer of uniforms for its departments like home department or health department,” he said.
 
 “Among various demands of the organisation are appropriate land to develop a uniform manufacturing park and skills training institute focused on skill training,” Shah said.
 
 Machinery manufacturers, suppliers of other services to uniforms industry, textiles companies and wholesalers and retailers of uniforms from countries such as Iran, Iraq, Sudan, Kenya and   are participating in the three-day exhibition.
 
 Baliram Balu Chavan, deputy textile secretary, said the state government has sanctioned a sum of Rs 18 lakh for the exhibition and allotted space for the show. “The government will be open to consider aspirations of the uniform manufacturers in Solapur if they come with a detailed proposal,” he said.
 
 
