A movie outing seems incomplete without popcorn and other snacks to munch on, but do you feel like you end up spending more on movie-time snacks than on the tickets? Last week, the Weights and Measures Department carried out a surprise inspection of   and multiplexes in Delhi and action was taken against 12 multiplexes for overcharging on eatables, including bottled water and aerated drinks, inside theatres. The move came after several MLAs complained against overpricing of food items and soft drinks inside cinema halls during the budget session. "Cinema halls are carrying out massive loot... The food items and drinks they serve inside are too expensive, costing up to 50 times of their value outside the hall," AAP MLA Mahendar Goyal had said in the session.

  However, cinema owners say that the food items in theatres are not overpriced, but similar to what is charged at any "good cafe". They also add that the profit they earn mainly comes from F&B sales, since they get only 25% of the profit from ticket sales. 
 
  
 When asked about the "overpriced" food and beverages, cinema owners say that that the prices seem high when compared to street food, but are actually cheaper than food in cafes. Yogesh Raizada, corporate head,  , tells us, "The food items in cinemas are not expensive. If you compare the price of coffee and sandwiches in a cinema hall with that of a good cafe, you will find that the food in cinema halls is cheaper. We don't charge only for the food, we also charge for the convenience and the service that we provide." The manager of a cinema hall in Delhi adds, "Those who compare the price of food items in cinema halls with street food find it overpriced."
 
  Raizada adds, "The decision to raid cinema halls is shocking. The government should take it up with the manufacturers of the packaged goods we sell. If the government thinks that the food is overpriced, they can give a notice to the manufacturers about it, and we will comply with prices they mark on the products."
 
  
  (Thinkstock Photos/ Getty Images)
 
 
  
 
 The F&B business in cinema halls has expanded in the last few years, with most multiplexes boasting of menus that include food like biryani, chicken tikkas and pizza. Cinema owners say that this is where their profit comes from. An industry insider tells us, "Without the food and beverages, there would be no movie theatre business. In India, the intervals are designed to accommodate the F&B business."
 
  Tinku Singh, group president, SRS Cinemas, says,"The profit from food and beverages is far higher than that from tickets sold. For every ticket sold, a cinema owner gets only 25% of the profit, while for food and beverages, it’s around 50%, after deducting the cost of making and taxes."
 
  Joginder Mahajan, film distributor and treasurer, Motion Pictures Association, says, "Cinemas have to split the money from ticket sales with the film production houses. If a ticket costs Rs100, Rs40 goes in entertainment tax, Rs30 will go to the film's producer and Rs15 each to the theatre and the distributor. Where is the profit in this business? However, the theatres get to keep almost all the money they make from selling food. Hence,from the business perspective, multiplexes are only partly about films."
 
 
 
 
 Many moviegoers in the city tell us that the food in cinema halls is so expensive that they have to plan how to spend their money on a movie outing. Siddharth Kumar, a freelance photographer, says, "I wish when a movie is declared tax-free, the food could also be declared tax-free. The coffee is priced at Rs100 and the cold drinks at Rs150 – the same things can be bought at a much cheaper price outside. Those who go for movies once a month can still afford to eat at the theatre, but since I am a regular, I only eat at the cinema hall when a film is tax-free and so the ticket is cheaper. I don't even buy water, and drink from the water cooler, which is usually hard to find."
 
  Gargi Sengupta, a college student, says, "Since the food is so expensive at movie halls, my friend and I split the cost – one person pays for the movie and the other for the food. We also prefer going out in groups so that we can at least divide the cost of the food. On an average, a film outing costs us Rs500 per person."
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Delhiites tell us that if it’s a family outing to the movies, the choice is between eating out at a restaurant and eating at the cinema hall. Akhil Kumar Mishra, a government employee, says, "Instead of going to a restaurant after watching the movie, we eat at the theatre only. It costs almost the same and we can't afford to do both." Ankima Sharma,a banker, says, "I try to resist eating at the theatre, but by the interval, I give up. How long can you resist when everyone around you is eating? I always end up spending almost twice as much as the tickets on the food. Everything is so expensive at cinema halls that we have started factoring in the food also when we plan a movie outing, and go to the multiplexes that have better food."
 
 
