LUCKNOW: From intricately decorated   work, delicate ‘jaali’ work, the exquisitely crafted arches or the finesse of the  , Indian and   forms of architecture blending into each other, there are innumerable houses in Lucknow that manifest heritage within and on their facade.

 Tucked in every nook and corner, at every turn of a bylane in the historic city, many such   are crumbling for paucity of funds, neglect, government apathy towards heritage and impact of weather over the years, while there are some that have been preserved with personal effort. 
 
 To celebrate grandeur of these architectural wonders of Lucknow Sanatkada festival beginning Friday is featuring a tribute titled ‘Lucknow ki Reha'ish’ or homes of Lucknow. “The concept intertwines the many stories these wonderful homes represent, contributing to the city’s special history and showcasing a sliver of its past,” said Madhavi Kuckreja, founder of the socio-cultural outfit. From heritage walks to photo galleries, qissagoi (story-telling) to launch of a special coffee table book ‘Reha’ish: At home in Lucknow’ compiled by Adity Chakravarti and edited by Nasima Aziz, Nimra Rizvi and Saleem Kidwai, the beauty of Lucknow’s homes will be the theme of the festival.
 
 With beauty comes need to make an effort for maintenance, especially in the absence of government policies allowing continuity of private ownership. “Restoration of the home began in 1995 and has continued, with over 22 rooves changed overtime,” said Sheeba Zaidi, whose father Iftikhar Ali Khan and uncle Habib Ali Khan own the 19th century   Manzil in Golaganj. 
 
 Similar is the case with  , currently owned by Saif Ehtram Alvi and his cousin Imtiaz Alvi. “Such extravagant abodes need personal maintenance and craftsmanship to match the original and that is a challenge as huge as the building,” said Saif.
 
 --------------------------------------------
 
 HOUSED IN SPLENDOUR
 
 1. KAKORI KOTHI, Khayali Ganj: Built by Claude Martin for his favourite mistress ‘Gori Bibi’ (Boulone Lise), the 18th century Old Martin House was bought by Munshi Imtiaz Ali of Kakori in 1872 from the  . A prolific lawyer, Ali was also prime minister of Bhopal from 1888-96. The circular drawing room of the kothi with rooms opening from all sides is a highlight of the kothi that according to historian Rosie Llewellyn-Jones was used as a cockpit. 
 
 2. IMAMBARA-e-NAYA MAHAL, Mansoornagar: Built in 1868, along with an Imambara and masjid, the house is owned by the family of Padma Shri Syed Ahmed Meerza Mohazzab Lakhnawi, renowned elegiac poet and celebrated figure in Urdu literature who compiled ‘Mohazzab-ul-Lugat’ a unique dictionary of Lucknow style Urdu in 14 volumes. Built for Rs 20,000 then, according to present owner Syed Ahmed Meerza Mujarrab, not even one portion of the house can be restored with that amount now. 
 
 3. KHAQAAN MANZIL, Golaganj: Built around 1837 for Khaqaan Bahu, the daughter-in-law of Nawab Mohammad Ali Shah’s second wife, Malka Jahan. The two-hall baradari and its iconic Imambara with Awadh’s typical arches, glass stained doors and immaculate chandeliers are the purely untouched part of the house giving it a historic feel. Originally divided into three parts—the men, women and guest sections—the wooden ceilings of the side rooms were decorated with oil paintings. 
 
 4. KRISHNA BHAVAN, Aminabad: It took around 40 years for the mason to complete the intricate handwork of the arches, the jaalis and the facade of the house, finalising it in 1941. With blue peacocks aligned on every arch of the house and a temple on the ground floor embodying both Mughal and Indian architecture, the house was built by current owner Ujwal Srivastava’s ancestor Mahadev of Chandapur estate near Shahjahanpur. 
 
 
