NEW DELHI: Universities across the country from now will have a “wall of heroes”, a display of portraits or photographs of 21   recipients to inspire students and inculcate feelings of nationalism.
 
  This is part of the Centre’s   (Wisdom and Warrior Campaign) and was conceived by   Tarun Vijay, who calls it “a humble attempt to inculcate patriotism in the students.”
  
  “We have reached out to 1,000 universities across the country and everyone has been very supportive. It is a positive campaign to tell the youth of the country about our real heroes, who laid down their lives for us. Nobody is above them,” Vijay told ET.
  
  HRD minister   and minister of state for defence Subhash Bhamre will launch the campaign here on Tuesday.
  
  “The   — depicting the portraits of War Warriors decorated with Param Veer Chakra for showing extraordinary courage and bravery to defend Motherland — will inspire the youth and make them feel patriotic,” Vijay said.
  
  “To start with, we will have 100 universities that will launch the campaign and show the way forward,” he added.
  
  The first set of portraits is planned to be presented to VCs from various universities such as JNU, DU, Jamia, Kerala University, Mumbai University and those in Jammu and Arunachal Pradesh.
  
  “Among the IITs, IIT-Delhi is already on board. Others, I am sure will follow,” Vijay said. Vijay said the campaign was inspired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and aimed at creating respect among students for real heroes. He said the universities could choose whichever wall they want to have the photographs on. “We have left it to them. They can display the pictures wherever it is easy for them to maintain and where they are easily seen by students and visitors.”
  
  Last year, in a series of incidents in some universities, including JNU, some students were accused of taking part in anti-national protests and raising anti-India slogans. Similarly, violent clashes had broken out in Ramjas College over an invitation to JNU student Umar Khalid, one of those who had organised an event to protest against the hanging of Parliament attack convict Afzal Guru. 
