PATNA/GAYA: The anti-terrorism squad (ATS) of Bihar and other states failed to access the email of 2008 Ahmedabad serial bomb blast accused Tausif Khan, who was taken on four-day police remand, which ended on Tuesday. Tausif, a resident of Juhupura area in Ahmedabad, was arrested along with his local companion Sana Khan from a cyber cafe in the Rajindra Ashram locality under the Civil Lines police station area at Gaya on September 13. Sarwar Khan, Tausif’s local patron and a former SIMI activist, was subsequently arrested from his Sahdeo Khap home under the Magadh University Police Station area the same night.   Though the hard disc of the computer used by Tausif and Sanna in the café was seized, police could not retrieve the data, which would provide vital information about the persons they were in touch with or the plan they were working on. Altogether 56 persons were killed and more than 200 injured in the serial blasts in Ahmedabad on July 26, 2008.    A senior IPS officer said, “Once the ATS gains access to Tausif’s emails, it will become clear with whom he was communicating or taking commands from. Police also could not find any ATM card from Tausif and search is on to know about his financial resources and bank operations.”    Gaya SSP Garima Mallick said the trio’s four-day police remanded ended on Tuesday and they were sent back to jail. “More raids are being carried out on the basis of their interrogation. Several incriminating evidences have been seized, indicating that they were threat to national security. But they did not reveal anything about their future plan,” she said.    “As of now, Tausif and two others are not required for further interrogation. The revelations made by him and other inputs gathered during the investigation will be thoroughly analysed before taking a final decision whether to seek his fresh remand or not,” the SSP said and added that no more arrests/detentions were made after Tausif’s revelations.    Police sources said Tausif and Sarwar had attended several meetings organized by SIMI (Students’ Islamic Movement of India) outside Bihar. SIMI was banned after the 9/11 attack in the USA. Sources said that the trio would be kept in separate cells in the prison for security reasons.    He said the ATS from Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh and Ahmedabad interrogated Tausif. “Two teams of Intelligence Bureau from New Delhi and one from Patna also quizzed Tausif,” sources said.    Sources said Gujarat Police would now present the production warrant issued by the Ahmedabad trial court to take him there. Having already been chargesheeted in the case, Tausif would now be facing trial in Ahmedabad.