PUNE: The dust has settled after the withdrawal of nominations and campaigning will pick up pace now leading to a fierce contest in the February 21 civic election. 

 At least 1,102 candidates will contest for   of   (PMC) after 751 aspirants withdrew their names on Tuesday, the last day. 
 
 The nomination process has divided all the parties and the loyalty factor has fallen by the wayside after parties nominated the leaders’ kin and preferred outsiders who had switched camps before the polls as candidates. 
 
 While the BJP faces a tough challenge to take along its miffed cadre and leaders, the NCP will have to fight it out without its senior leaders and corporators who are now in the BJP camp. The Congress and the   are fighting for their survival while the MNS which emerged as the second largest party in 2012 polls has to fight for survival.
 
 Parties have tried to nominate at least one strong candidate in each ward hoping that he will draw votes for the other three candidates. 
 
 The state BJP leaders were keen on the four-member ward system because as per their calculation people would vote for the BJP and not for candidates as they did during the Assembly and   elections. The party swept the Assembly elections and won all the eight seats in the city and its Lok Sabha candidate Anil Shirole registered a thumping victory, thanks to a ‘Modi wave’. 
 
 According to BJP’s strategists, by clubbing together a big chunk of population into a big ward, they had succeeded in breaking small, but strong vote banks of the other parties. The BJP is confident that candidates contesting on its symbol would get collective votes. While BJP is trying to breach NCP bastions, the ruling party in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad is completely dependent on its leader Ajit Pawar.
 
 Ajit’s Show Now: NCP leader and former deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar is single-handedly shouldering the party’s responsibility in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad with Sharad Pawar and Supriya Sule preferring to keep away.
 
 With his close aides in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad joining the BJP camp, Pawar has a tough challenge to keep the party’s flag flying in both cities. “People are aware of the BJP’s politics. It has become a party of power brokers. I am confident that Puneites will not vote for a party which will create communal tension,” Pawar said. 
 
 Though the Congress and NCP have joined hands for some seats in the city, Pawar is confident that both parties can always come together after the election. 
 
 NCP has fielded its veterans including former mayors Rajlaxmi Bhosale, Dattatraya Dhankawde and Prashant Jagtap, standing committee chairman Nilesh Nikam, Shrikant Patil, Balasaheb Bodke and other senior corporators. The party has also nominated outsiders like Bandu Gaikwad and Shyam Mankar (Congress) and Priya Gadade (MNS). 
 
 BJP In Disarray: The once confident city unit of the BJP is now a divided house. Senior party leaders who started their careers with the RSS cadre and then as BJP workers are unhappy with the party for opening its doors to Congress and NCP leaders and giving them tickets to contest the civic poll. A section of the city BJP leaders is miffed with the party promoting Rajya Sabha MP and land developer Sanjay Kakade as the party leader. Kakade was close to NCP leader Ajit Pawar and recently joined the BJP camp. Senior party leaders admit that the party will ‘pay the price’ for promoting outsiders and ignoring party workers. Many are unhappy with party leaders including Pune MP Anil Shirole promoting their kin in the civic elections. However, BJP state unit chief Raosaheb Danve is confident that the BJP will overcome all and win the  . “We have to understand that the electoral merit is as important as loyalty to the party. We need electoral merit to capture power in PMC,” he said, adding that the party will “mould” outsiders into the BJP culture.
 
 Leaderless Congress: Former chief minister Prithviraj Chavan who was assigned the responsibility of the polls is not around. Party sources said Chavan is unhappy with state unit president Ashok Chavan’s decision to join hands with NCP in Pune. Former ministers Harshawardhan Patil and Patangrao Kadam have kept themselves away from Pune politics. Right from selecting candidates to resolving internal differences, local leaders have taken the lead. “It is a fact that the party is headless and candidates are banking on their own strengths to contest these elections. There is no support from the state leaders even as the party is struggling for survival. City leaders who have no mass base are running the show,” a senior leader said. Unlike other parties, the Congress has fielded senior sitting and former corporators. 
 
 Assertive Sena: The Shiv Sena is all set to lock horns with the BJP whose leaders said it was a direct fight between the party and the NCP. The party is focusing on the mid-city area where it shares it vote bank with the BJP. “People will put faith in Shiv Sena. The party will emerge as a strong option to the corrupt NCP and BJP,” Sena city unit chief Vinayak Nimhan said. Unlike other parties, the Sena is not facing rebellion. The party is looking to gain MNS’s vote bank and its traditional votes. The party has put up a united face and activated seniors like former minister Shashikant Sutar for campaigning. 
 
 MNS Fades Out: The party which emerged as the second largest in the 2012 civic polls is now fighting for its existence. MNS won 29 seats in the 152-member house in the last polls, but its leaders are not so confident of winning many seats now. In the last five years, the party has lost its base in the city and could not find candidates in many constituencies. “It is a fact that the party is in a bad position. We are awaiting directives from our chief Raj Thackeray. Many leaders have left the party while workers are dismayed. Our candidates have filed nominations, but it would be difficult for the party to repeat its performance,” admitted a senior party leaders. Its former leader in PMC, Ravindra Dhangekar has joined the Congress while former city head Prakash Dhore is with the BJP. Many other leaders including sitting corporators are in different camps. Party leaders admit that lack of guidance and support from Mumbai has left the Pune unit gasping.
 
