BENGALURU: Trained   serving as cooks, manual workers and gardeners at the homes of senior police officers in state police will now be a thing of the past. After dilly-dallying for years, the   government has finally decided to do away with the system introduced by the British in the late 19th century through a formal notification on March 9.

 “We have formally issued a government order to end the   and replace it with followers,” said P K Garg, principal secretary, home department.
 
 According to the notification, the government has authorized different arms of the home department to directly appoint 50% of followers for their eligible officials, and extend home orderly allowance to officials to engage followers of their choice on a part-time basis. The home orderly allowances will enable the officers to engage a person of their choice to assist them in disposal of official work at their residence on a part-time basis.
 
 To claim home orderly allowance, the notification says, the officer should certify that he has utilized the allowance for the specified purpose. Officers should also certify that they haven’t utilized the service of any police constable, government orderly, and peon at their residence as home orderly.
 
 According to estimates, over 3,000 constables and head constables in the state, including 1,229 in Bengaluru, work as orderlies for senior police officers.
 
 Efforts to abolish ‘koi hai’, a legacy of British Raj, had faced stiff resistance, especially from senior IPS officers. However, abolition of this system was one of the long-pending demands of the  . Though the idea was first mooted by former DG&IGP Ajai Kumar Singh, it gained steam after constables threatened to go on mass leave last year, pressing for their various demands, including abolition of the orderly system. 
 
 Senior police officers said the move will also help the state police save around Rs 50 crore that it spends on salaries of orderly constables and head constables. According to them, the government incurs an expenditure of nearly Rs 70-80 crore a year for providing orderlies to police officers. An orderly’s average salary, including all benefits, ranges between Rs 3 lakh and Rs 3.5 lakh a year.
 
 While DGP and additional DGP get six men each,   gets four, DIG and SP three, the deputy SP two and inspectors one.
 
 Though the   Manual says that orderlies must be taken from armed units to “assist” them in their wok, it has been widely misused by senior officers, with many constables ending up as domestic help at their homes. 
 
 A senior official at the state home department said the orderlies will be phased out gradually. The process of removing them will begin from Bengaluru city, and later extended to the district headquarters. Since replacement of personnel takes time, no timeframe has been fixed, he added.
 
 Retired police officer K Pooonacha opined, "I’m glad that the government has finally taken a bold decision. This will not only boost the morale of the constabulary but also strengthen the police force. The additional constabulary can perform regular police jobs."
  
 
