PUNE: An Orwellian tool called eVidur that will send alerts about a threatening, polarizing or inflammatory comment on social media will be launched by the   (CDAC). 

 The centre will also make public an electronic repository of records called Digitalaya, a supercomputer in a box-Param Shavak DL GPU system, and another tool called Molecular Structure Generator in Cloud (Mosaic) for accurate and speedy drug research. 
 
 They will all be launched on Tuesday, CDAC's 30th foundation day. The centre was founded on Gudi Padwa, the Maharashtrian New Year. 
 
 Security agencies or the government may have to look at social media data for potential threats or feedback. " Views on political or developmental agendas, policies and initiatives help take corrective measures. The presence of anti-social elements on social media and their ability to fan religious sentiments or propaganda are like a nightmare for an agency. It is important to track comments and opinions," a statement from CDAC said. 
 
 On infringement of privacy, executive director CDAC Hemant Darbari, said, " Only information available on public platforms will be analysed. We will not be taking into account the information not shared and is private," Darbari said.
 
 The tool was used as a pilot to monitor people's reaction to the smart city project announced by Pune Municipal Corporation.
 
 Digitalaya will be used for establishment of a digital repository where digital assets are audited for safety. It is being used by 50 archivists and scholars in National Archive of India and   for the Arts.
 
 The deep learning development-Param Shavak DL GPU system is a supercomputer available between Rs 9 lakh and Rs 15 lakh and functions in rooms where computers work. 
 
 "Institutes in Odisha and Gujarat are interested in our systems.   in Pune has one of them and MIT wants the system. It will help students take up industry relevant projects and become employable," Darbari added.
 
 Mosaic is a cloud-based structure optimization tool where results are shared in the form of a few molecules favourable to drug target. It reduces the cost of clinical trials and increases the speed of research.
 
 The tool will help in drug repurposing where molecules in an FDA approved drug are analyzed to see whether the molecules can be used to fight any other disease too. 
 
 "A drug may have been made for treating cancer but may also control diabetes. So there is a need to recycle drugs, find new uses for existing drugs. This is where Mosaic comes in," Darbari added.
 
