PUNE: For a Puneite, Phulrani is one of childhood’s unforgettable memories. 

 The Peshwe Park’s   will celebrate her 61st birthday on Saturday with balloons, cakes and enthusiastic children. The party has got sixtyfive-year-old Sugandha Shirvalkar all excited. 
 
 Shirvalkar, who was then  , had inaugurated the train on April 8, 1956, and she cannot wait to revisit the whole experience which she feels is a part of her.
 
 “I was a four-year-old then. I have vague memories of that day but one thing that I clearly remember is that I was decorated with flowers. There were flowers around my neck, on my wrist, in my hair and around my ankles. They should have named me ‘Phulrani’ rather than the toy train,” she chuckled.
 
 She remembered the maiden trip when she rode in the toy train alone and then with her classmates and teachers. “I was lured by the bright colours of the toy train and awestruck by it. I was also fascinated about being the centre of attraction for that day. Now,   have gone by and I have decided to distribute 61 books among the children on Saturday to mark the occasion,” she said.
 
 Over the years, she has been visiting the train to relive her memories. As a mother she brought her young kids and now she goes there with her three granddaughters. “Though it is not the same Phulrani that I had launched, the joy of taking a ride remains the same. My granddaughters are thrilled even at the mention of it,” she added.
 
 Chugging her way through decades, on the same loops and curves, the iconic toy train glistens in the bright sunlight, her vibrant blue, red, yellow and green colours beckoning the children to take a ride with her.
 
 In 2011, the engine and bogies were changed as the old one was worn out and had mechanical problems. The changed engine was intentionally designed in the form of a steam engine. 
 
 “The idea was to let today’s generation have a glimpse of the old era. They will see bullet trains and diesel trains but a steam engine will be a rarity,” Ashok Ghorpade, chief garden superintendent,  , said.
 
 Phulrani does takes citizens down memory lane. Kaveri Salunkey (36) first visited the park when she was eight. On Friday, she revisited the park with her eight-year-old son Swaraj to feel the joy of riding the toy train. 
 
 Ramesh Jagtap (47), who operates the toy train, had first visited the park when he was seven years old and remembers all the animals that were housed in the zoo. “The popularity has definitely increased and more people want to take a ride but only those who rode the original Phulrani will know about the special feeling I am talking about,” he said.
 
 Phulrani remains a big attraction especially among the children who love the joyride. “ She earned a cool Rs 15.5 lakh this year. To attract more people to the park we are planning to start musical fountain in the Peshwe pond,” said Ghorpade.
 
