BHUBANESWAR: Unofficial results of the first-phase panchayat poll have left many   in a spot of bother after the   took an unprecedented lead in their bastions. 

 Though the   is yet to announce the results officially, sources from the ground suggests that a number of senior ministers like Debi Prasad Mishra, Pushpendra Singhdeo, Jogendra Behera, Snehangini Churia and Sudam Marndi could not ensure party's victory in their home turfs.
 
 Infighting, BJD president and chief minister   not hitting the campaign trail on a larger scale and poor election management are some of the key factors, according to BJD insiders behind the BJP'surge in the state. Inability of the ministers to resolve local issues is another factor behind the party's poor performance.
 
 In agriculture-rich Kalahandi district, the state government could not streamline the paddy procurement system as a result the farmers were forced to sell their paddy below the minimum support price, said a villager. 
 
 In Balangir, Bargarh and Mayurbhanj, the ruling party faces serious intra-party wrangling between two powerful groups which many senior leaders admit resulted party's poor show.
 
 Marathon campaign by Odia film stars in the western regions, where they are not very popular, did not work at all, said a senior leader.
 
 In Cuttack's Narasinghpur, represented by industries minister Mishra, party's drubbing is attributed to political mismanagement.
 
 "The party would go for a detail analysis if it has lost in some areas. But only one-phase of election has been completed so far and BJD candidates won in most of the seats. There are still four more phases left. The party would be at the number one position after all the phases," said party spokesperson  .
 
 Even though BJD candidates won in most of the zilla parishad zones according to unofficial reports, the growth of saffron party pushing the Congress to number three position is a matter of concern for the ruling dispensation.
 
 Naveen on Tuesday skipped office the pre-lunch session and reportedly spoke to some of the senior party leaders to work hard for the victory of party candidates in the remaining four phases.
 
 Many in the ruling party believe that the heavyweights need to be worried as popularity of leaders in the panchayat elections is always a key parameter for the party while selecting candidates for assembly polls.
 
