HYDERABAD: With the new land acquisition law having come into effect following the President's assent to the bill last week, the   government has decided to go ahead and acquire one lakh acres to complete all pending   in the state. 

 Towards that end, CM K   has instructed irrigation and revenue officials to speed up land acquisition to expedite construction of major irrigation projects. Construction at several irrigation projects had come to a grinding halt after the high court had struck down GO 123 in August 2016 resulting in a loss of over `400 crore to the government in the form of price escalation.
 
 Jubilant over the President's assent, the TRS government has prepared a road map to acquire over one lakh acres in next three months. As against the total requirement of 69,078 acres for the Kaleswaram irrigation project, the government had acquired about 23,968 acres through GO 123. Now, it has to acquire about 45,000 acres with the help of the new land acquisition law.
 
 As per an irrigation department report submitted to the CM, as many as 23 irrigation and road projects have been adversely hit due to the land acquisition hurdles. Almost all contractors have stopped working after GO 123 was cancelled by the HC. This has resulted in price escalation as none of the contractors is ready to bear the loss. The crucial   reservoir work was stopped after people in one village refused to part with their land. 
 
 For the acquisition of about 120 acres, the entire work suffered and came to a halt. Similarly, the Kalwakurty project is waiting for completion which will only be possible after acquiring about 1000 acres of land in   district.
 
 “We have asked ground level officials to speed up the land acquisition after the notification of the new law. The government has decided to appoint special deputy collectors to supervise the land acquisition in accordance with the new law,“ said a senior official of the irrigation department. 
 
 The CM has already given his approval for increasing the number of posts to ensure speedy land acquisition. Apart from these, projects on river Krishna, including Palamuru-Ranga Reddy irrigation projects require huge tracts of land.
 
