JAIPUR:   (JMC) will not impose charges of door-to-door   collection on residents for first three months. 

 Taking experience from past, the corporation has decided to levy charges only after providing the facility. JMC has proposed to earn Rs 100 crore per year from garbage collection scheme. For this, JMC is also conducting a survey of properties on which these charges will be imposed. 
 
 According to a JMC official, “As per present data, there are 6.80 lakh proprieties which come under the bracket. The data has been updated and JMC would impose garbage charges on nearly eight lakh properties.” 
 
 For door-to-door collection in municipal corporation, it is proposed that the awarded organization will levy Rs 20 for a plot size less or up to 50 square metre, Rs 80 will be charged for a plot size more than 50 square metre and up to 300 square metre. Owners who have plot size more than 300 square will have to shell out Rs 150. 
 
 For commercial shops, restaurants, sweet shops, charges will be Rs 2,509. Similarly, Rs 750 and Rs 500 will be levied on guest houses and hostels respectively. 
 
 The Pune-based firm is all set to launch door-to-door garbage collection scheme in three zones of the city. The firm has mobilised more than 100 garbage collection vehicles and earmarked land in Bhankrota for dumping. Garbage of two zones will be dumped in Bhankrota dumping station and later it would be transported to Sevapura dumping yard. 
 
 Initially, the garbage collection scheme will be started in Mansarovar, Civil Lines and Hawa Mahal (East) zones. The firm would collect approximately 360 metric tonnes garbage from these zones. For this, firm would impose charges on plot owners, said an official. 
 
 Fearing massive protest, JMC administration has decided to launch garbage collection scheme in phased manner and not in entire 91 wards of city at a time. “During mayor   tenure, JMC had started garbage collection scheme in   area. However, there was a violent protest as huge number of sanitation workers was allegedly affected. Now, the scheme would be launched in present mayor Lahoti’s ward including other zones where there are less possibilities of protest,” said an official source.
 
