NAVI MUMBAI: The   have resorted to manually regulating the flow owing to the blinkers being turned off by the   police wing. This move is believed to have reduced the traffic snarls substantially as the electronic signal system had been causing traffic jams. 

 Long queues have become the order of the day owing to rains at crowded junctions like Thane-Belapur Road, Mulund-Airoli link road, Palm Beach Road, Uran road and Sion Panvel highway. The department is deploying additional traffic cops to man the junctions. 
 
 Motorists on the crowded junctions of Ghansoli, Rabale, Mahape, Talvali, CBD circle and Kalamboli circle, Killa Gaothan intersection, sector 16 signal and Jiva circle are having to follow the cops after the electronic traffic blinkers have been turned off. 
 
 Multiple queues usually go up to 500 meters at these crowded junctions many a time crippling the traffic flow which prompted the department to enforce   signalling. Looking at the ever-increasing density of vehicles along these patches during peak hours, the traffic wing has embraced the manual pattern with the help of additional deployment.
 
 “The signal system caused a terrible jam in the recent times. This is the best way to get rid of chock-a-block. For instance, traffic at Rabale junction and T-Junction at Airoli was a nightmare and with manual signalling, snarls have reduced substantially,” said Siraj Mohite, a motorist.
 
 Mamta D’Souza, traffic police inspector, Rabale unit, said, “So far, the manual system has been successful during the decisive peak hours in the morning and evening. We used to adhere to the system during VIP movements. But nowadays we have started practising this as and when required at all these traffic prone spots during peak hours to ease traffic movement. This has proved to be the best option and a feasible alternative to  .”
 
 While technology is getting better with time, the manual system of regulating traffic is surprisingly making motorists’ lives easier during peak hours, said another motorist. 
 
 
