Nagpur: Acute manpower crunch at the regional transport offices (RTOs) in Nagpur city, east and rural notwithstanding, the state transport commissioner’s office has sent eight senior officials on deputation to other offices in the state since the last one year.

 Confirming this, a senior official from city RTO told TOI that the transport commissioner is apparently giving priority to offices in western Maharashtra, Mumbai and Thane.
 
 Citing an example, the officer said Smita Kolhe, motor vehicle inspector (MVI) from Nagpur east office, has been sent on deputation to Mumbai (central) office, while MVI Dilip Darade from rural office has been sent on deputation to Thane. Junior clerk Meera Kendre from Wardha has been sent on deputation to RTO Ratnagiri.
 
 Sources said the TC office actually neglects manpower crunch in RTOs in Vidarbha. The city and east RTOs are already facing severe manpower crunch as 67 posts are vacant since a couple of years. The only post of deputy RTO in Nagpur city office is vacant since last one year after Vijay Chavhan was transferred to Gondia.
 
 Sources said the situation is grim in the east office. While the office was created, the government did not provide the required staff. Of the sanctioned staff of 36, including one deputy RTO and assistant RTO each, 4 MVIs and three AMVI, seven posts are vacant.
 
 Bifurcating the office has actually aggravated the problem for visitors. From issuing driving licence, smart cards, to fitness certificates, each work is taking from one to four months. While the manpower strength of city office is around 74, the workload here is relatively low.
 
 The situation in the rural office also grim. Of the sanctioned four posts of assistant RTOs, only one was filled. Similarly, six posts of the 13 sanctioned posts of MVIs are vacant in this office having jurisdiction of Gondia, Bhandara, Chandrapur and Gadhchiroli.
 
 Despite having high court bench in Nagpur and with many cases being dealt every day, the posts of legal officers (motor vehicles) are vacant in both city and rural offices. Even the posts of office superintendent and senior accounts officer are vacant in both city and rural offices.
 
 
