RUDRAPUR:  , the father of 17-year-old boy   who died in the custody of   police outpost in Kashipur on February 28, has filed a complaint with the sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) and the Kashipur circle officer that some unidentified persons have been threatening to kill his other son if he did not withdraw the case.
 
  “Some unidentified persons often visit my house when the men of the family are absent and threaten the women to withdraw the case over Ziyauddin’s death or they will kill my younger son Mohammad Riyazuddin, who is 11,” Mohammad Yamin told the officials on Monday.
  
  “We are receiving threats even after the arrest of three policemen in connection with the case. The last threat came on Sunday,” Yamin told TOI.
  
  On March 29, police arrested three policemen, including outpost in-charge   and constables Balwant Singh and Birendra Kumar.
  
  Yamin further said, “No male member of the family is going out for work. We are scared and sitting at home, waiting for police to take action.”
  
  The Udham Singh Nagar police said they were taking the matter seriously, and planning to deploy an armed constable at Yamin’s house.
  
  Confirming that Ziyauddin’s relatives had made a verbal complaint in this connection, US Nagar senior superintendent of police (SSP) Sadanand Date told TOI, “We can deploy an armed constable at their house as soon as we receive a written complaint. The matter is sub-judice, and thus the department will act in accordance with the high court’s order.”
  
  The Uttarakhand high court is hearing a petition filed by Yameen, in which he claimed that he and his family members were threatened by the accused and other police personnel on duty around the time of the boy’s death.
  
  Ziyauddin’s uncle Mohammad Salim too claimed that women of the family were being threatened by some unidentified people “to withdraw the case or face consequences”.
  
  “Our struggle is for justice. We will not withdraw the case despite repeated threats. I will hold police responsible if anything happens to my family, as police are yet to arrest six culprits,” said Salim.
  
  SDM Dayanand Saraswati said, “The magisterial inquiry will be completed by Tuesday evening. In the meantime, the age certificate has been procured from the school to ascertain Ziyauddin’s age. Besides, doctors who performed postmortem have also been called for the recording of their statement. After the investigation is completed, the report will be submitted to the high court.”
