CHENNAI: Striking down   government’s 85%-15% formula for state board and CBSE students respectively for MBBS/BDS admissions lock, stock and barrel on Friday, Madras high court has charged the state government with utter non-application of mind.

 Justice  , describing the June 22 government order (GO) as ‘totally unreasonable,’ said it was the state government which should take the blame for the   of  .
 
 “I do not think that the inability of the state board students to equip themselves can be a justifiable reason to overlook the meritorious students of other boards to get admission into professional courses. It is not in dispute that the syllabus of NEET was prepared much earlier and made public as early as in the year 2010-11. It is seen that the syllabus is prepared by   and not by CBSE. Therefore, it is for the state government to take all steps to equip the students of state board to compete with the other students from the other boards, by providing all facilities and conducting coaching classes etc., all over the state. Without doing so meticulously, now the government cannot take shelter under the guise of policy decision and issue the impugned GO, thereby, undoubtedly, diluting the merits for admission,” observed Justice Ravichandrabaabu.
 
 He was passing orders on a batch of writ petitions filed by students who had studied their Plus Two under CBSE board. It was their contention that the state ought not to discriminate between students of state board and the CBSE, especially when the qualifying examination to MBBS/BDS admission was common to all. The impugned 85:15 quota denied reasonable opportunity for CBSE students to compete for admission in respect of all the seats. There cannot be reservation, amounting to discrimination, among equals, they argued.
 
 The government, on its part, said syllabus for NEET examination was in CBSE pattern and that out of top 300 seats, only 76 would go to students from state board. That is, while 28% seats would go to state board students, while 72% would go to CBSE students, it said. Bright state board students would, thus, be denied of the opportunity to study in top government medical colleges.
 
 Rejecting the arguments, Justice Ravichandrabaabu said that though NEET was meant to offer a level playing field, the state GOtried to give preference to lesser meritorious students of state board, thereby the merit is given a goby. “After conducting NEET and allowing students to take part, the state cannot change game pole after the game has started,” said the judge.
 
 Pointing that the impugned GO had been based on a proposal of additional director, without there being any discussion by the Cabinet, Justice Ravichandrabaabu said: “Reservation based on social status is one thing and reservation based on institution-wise is another thing. What is sought to be done by the impugned GO is nothing but an institutional reservation.”
 
 The state is not justified in treating other board students differently and curtailing their right to compete with state board students for all MBBS/BDS, he said, quashing the June 22 GO.
 
