The joy of being at a   has been experienced by an elite few in world football.
 
  Had India not won the bid to host the Fifa   World Cup next month, Indian footballers would have never known – in this lifetime at least -- what it’s like to be at a World Cup. India will now rub shoulders with the world’s best, and joining them will be the likes of   and  , both of whom are also debuting at a World Cup at any level.
  
  “This is India’s first World Cup and it’s a first for me too. We must all enjoy this moment,” said India coach Luis Norton de Matos, a former Portugal striker who coached in Europe and Africa and, “never in wildest dreams” thought of India as a career option.
  
  Like India, New Caledonia is also looking to sample the thrill and excitement that a World Cup provides. Officially the lowest-ranked nation in this competition – at 142 -- New Caledonia were made to work overtime to earn their ticket to India. Their qualification campaign itself was tough; narrow victories over Papua New Guinea and Vanuatu and then a draw against Tahiti. A 3-2 victory took them to the Oceania final, and the World Cup, but a 0-7 drubbing at the hands of New Zealand would have brought them back to earth
  
  “Football is very popular here, but in the eyes of the world, we don’t exist. We know that the players we are going to face at the World Cup will be the future stars of the biggest European club. It will be a wonderful experience for us and our country,” New Caledonia coach Dominique   told TOI.
  
  A former midfielder who only retired in 2014, Wacalie will need his side to punch several times above their weight, if they have to take anything more than experience from a group that also has France, Japan and Honduras.
  
  “These young Caledonian footballers will be living their dreams. It’s important for all of us to enjoy these moments, live through this competition of the highest level and then have the drive to take our game to the next level,” said Wacalie.
  
  The only debutant capable of going beyond just making up the numbers are Niger.
  
  Having lost 0-1 against two-time reigning world champions Nigeria in the first leg, nobody gave Niger much of a chance in the return leg. They however stunned their famous rivals and then made it to the semifinals, losing only on penalties to former U-17 world champions Ghana.
  
  “We are ambitious. Whatever our opponents, we keep the same course, with the same objectives. We will enjoy our very first World Cup, a historic moment, and continue our dream that will hopefully lead us to the title!” said Niger coach Tiemogo Soumaila, a former physical education teacher and hero of Nigerian football.
  
  Africa has an enviable record at the U-17 World Cup, winning twice as many trophies than any other continent. Maybe, it could be Niger’s time, even if they are only making their debut. Unlike India and New Caledonia, who
