The   (AAP) is making its debut at the 2017 assembly elections in Goa and expects to take Goa by storm when results are declared on March 11. For many, the expectations may seem far-fetched but Delhi chief minister and AAP’s national convener   explains why he has been left in no doubt that his party will sweep everyone off their feet with the results. Excerpts from an exclusive interview with TOI:

 
 
 
 The people of Goa seem to have made up their mind. There are two things: One is the arithmetic; Congress does not exist anymore, they are not even campaigning. I am told they are not doing any political rally and activities and are selling their last assets in the form of tickets. They have sold all tickets. It will be a waste if anyone votes for Congress. This elections people have strong hatred and anger against BJP, just like Congress in 2012. For the last five years, BJP has indulged in large-scale corruption, U-turns on almost every single issue and people want to teach them a lesson. BJP’s vote has also now got divided in multiple parts. In contrast, you have a team led by Elvis Gomes; it’s a neat, clean, honest and energetic team, who the people have hope (from). This is exactly what was there in Delhi. People were fed up of the existing parties and saw hope in us. There is also the achievement of the Delhi government in the last two years which has raised hopes. People want (to see) in Goa what we have done in Delhi. Something extraordinary is happening in Goa. I can sense that.
 
 
 
 Something similar should happen.
 
 
 
 I am making an appeal to the people. Don’t look at the candidates, look at the party, look at the team. This is a team of 39 people led by  . They are honest, energetic, youthful people who bring freshness to politics. Vote for them as a team. Don’t look at individual candidates. Give this whole thing a roaring majority so that they are able to deliver on all promises with confidence.
 
 
 
 Because of inflation. When you are giving old-age pension to a person, give him a respectable sum. That’s all we have done.
 
 
 
 
 This is exactly what I want to clarify. Before we formed the government in Delhi, Congress were in power for 15 years. Whenever anyone went to the Congress government, Sheila Dixit ji would say, ‘government is running into losses; there is no money’. In Goa, they are saying the same. In the last two years, we have worked so much; electricity rates are halved, water is free, schools, mohalla clinics, canteens, medicines and treatment is free. How did we get the money? We finished corruption. Money which was going into the pockets of officers and politicians is now being saved. There is no shortage of money. Goa will also not have a shortage (of money). Within two years, Goa will have a surplus budget.
 
 
 
 
 Elvis has all the free hand. I had nothing to do with the manifestos. I am only campaigning here, just like Modi ji is campaigning (for BJP). Otherwise, they are handling everything. The tickets too have been decided by Elvis’s team. I can only assure one thing: If our MLA or minister does something wrong, we will not spare him. Even if I have to use my offices, I will put pressure and take strong action. The government will work with the consent of the people. The government will not be run from the secretariat. They will ensure the safety and security of all religions.
 
 
 
 
 I have not seen the circular and cannot comment on this.
 
 Your battle against corruption has similarities to what   did 20 years ago in Goa…
 
 But he did not deliver. We delivered in Delhi. We are at stage two. Stage one was the agitation where we raised the question of corruption and put everything at stake. Stage two was when we formed the party and presented our agenda. The last two years were crucial. If we had failed in Delhi, then nobody would have accepted whatever we say. Despite all the odds and obstacles created by the central government, we have delivered so much in Delhi that in the last 15 years in Goa all the governments put together have not been able to deliver. This has raised hope. Just take four areaselectricity, water, health and education. Our work is being praised all over the world.
 
 You started as an activist and now the chief minister of Delhi. But when you take on the Prime Minister, you are still perceived as more of an activist than a chief minister…
 
 I have remained the same person at heart, at style. Power has not made any difference.
 
 
 
 
 There are times when you have to manage conflicting interests but the best way is to have a dialogue rather than impose any decision. This is what we have been trying to do and have been very successful. This is what we will do in Goa. There will be decentralisation of power; any decision that the government takes in Goa will be with the consent of the people in Goa.
 
 This is a crucial election for Manohar Parrikar as well as you in your quest to expand your reach outside Delhi…
 
 Arvind Kejriwal is not important. We don’t work like that. I am not important, the party is (also) not important. The people are important. We are here because Goa has been a victim of thoroughly corrupt politics for years. Now there is a chance and people will take charge.
 
 
 
 It looks like the Aam Aadmi Party will form the government.
 
 I can only assure one thing: If our MLA or minister does something wrong, we will not spare him. Even if I have to use my offices, I will put pressure and take strong action. The government will work with the consent of the people. The government will not be run from the secretariat. They will ensure safety, security of all religions
 
