NAGPUR: Organizing music and drama shows since 1980, Saptak is one of the most trusted cultural organization in the city. Started by ten music enthusiasts who tried to bring Pt Bhimsen Joshi for a performance in the city but had to invite   as the maestro was not available on the planned dates, Saptak has never looked back. After Sultana, the organization brought Kishori Amonkar and Pt   for performances. “In those days there were two other organizations Swar Sadhana and Mehfil which used to hold Hindustani classical music events,” said Vilas Manekar a former banker who along with another founder member Dr. Uday Gupta chatted with TOI on how the cultural scenario in the city has evolved over the past three decades.

 Excerpts from an interview ...
 
 Q. How did the city respond to your initiative?
 
 Vilas Manekar: We had organized our first two programmes at   which were ticketed shows. A good crowd turned up but nobody knew who had organized this. Most thought that it had been organized by some high-profile politician. We earned nothing out of it and needed the money to hold Bhimsen Joshi’s event on January 10, 1981 as we had his confirmation. So we took out a souvenir Santvani, which was a collection of bhajans, and could raise money. The show was organized at   where we had put up a huge pandal. We could raise Rs16,000 through ticket sales and were able to hold Joshi’s performance for three consecutive years.
 
 Q. So the city was keen to have such events and you could establish yourself with ease?
 
 Dr. Uday Gupte: It was the period when Swar Sadhana and Mehfil were on a wane. Our events were held in a pandal which used to cost a lot. But ITC used to sponsor many of our programmes which was a big help. The performance fee of the artists used to be very nominal and so we could afford the best. Most of the cultural events in the city used to happen around Ganpati festival or were private affairs held at different wadas in Mahal area.
 
 Q. But in the later years the cultural scene in the city was quite poor?
 
 VM: Yes that happened twice — once after the advent of colour television and VCRs, and the next when satellite television boomed in the late 90s. During those years we had invited Malani Rajurkar for a concert but that day Marathi film ‘Samana’ was being telecast. The turnout was very poor for the concert. That was the time when cinema halls, drama and cultural shows took a severe beating. We also used to hold three to five days music and drama festivals which used to get overwhelming response. But, later on, when event managers came on the scene and artists began to demand high fee the cost became prohibitive.
 
 Q. What revived it in later years?
 
 UG: The Kalidas festival by the district administration, Vasantrao Deshpande music festival by SCZCC and   organized by NMC revived the cultural scene. They could afford to get big artists. By the late 90s, the city had got better infrastructure in terms of good hotels, air connectivity and auditoriums.
 
 Q. Do you think the cultural scenario in the city today is thriving?
 
 UG: Yes. People today want lots of entertainment and are willing to explore different genres of art and music. We recently organized a film festival and got 500 registrations which is very handsome for a first-time event. Light music concerts are happening very frequently and get a huge audience. Now the presentations are also of high quality and technology has improved sound and light systems too. In fact now the city is short of auditoriums and venues.
 
 Q. And who are the players driving this movement?
 
 VM: It is still the government agencies who have taken it to the next level. Then there are non profit cultural organizations and lastly are the event managers who are doing it all for profit and succeeding too.
 
 Q. Are all these agencies competing or complementing each other?
 
 UG: They are complementing. The programme profile of each is different. Saptak members are also involved in many other organizations and helping them with logistics and other stuff. This has created a very healthy cultural environment which the city is enjoying. Though I would say that there is still this resource issue as local organizations can’t afford big ticket events and audience is unwilling to shell out money.
 
 Q. But the younger generation is still not seen at these events?
 
 VM: They are more for events like food festivals or stand-up acts which too have come up in the city. We had a good many youth for the film festival. This is all cyclical. We are sure to see more of the younger generation at our events in next few years.
 
