MEERUT: Expressing solidarity with Saharanpur Dalits, hundreds of community members protested against police and state government for allegedly manhandling the Saharanpur violence at the Meerut commissionary crossing and demanded speedy arrest of perpetrators of violence, especially in Shabbirpur village, where more than 80 houses were allegedly burnt by Thakurs.
 
  “We will launch a nationwide agitation, if we are repeatedly targeted,” warned agitating Dalit leaders.
  
  Puspendra Jatav, coordinator of Meerut zone for  , an organisation set up for the welfare of Dalits, told TOI, “We are being targeted everywhere in the state. Be it in Saharanpur or Sambhal or Meerut, and police instead of taking impartial stand are targeting Dalits. In fact, wherever   is in power, Dalits are at the receiving end. So, we are being compelled to organise ourselves as it is a matter of survival for us.”
  
  Another local Dalit leader Kiren Singh said, “Instead of arresting culprits in the Saharanpur violence case, police are unnecessarily victimising members of Dalit community. Many innocent people are being targeted. Despite the fact that a man of Thakur community, who died in the Shabbirpur violence because of asphyxiation, all blame was put on Dalits that they resorted to stone-pelting. This is a reflection of upper caste mindset and that needs to be changed. We cannot tolerate suppression any longer come may what.”
  
  Though the agitation was directed towards police and the state government for allegedly manhandling the Saharanpur violence, placards carried by protesters spoke volumes about general anger against BJP.
  
  Banners read as: “stop manipulating EVMs”, ‘stop hurting self-respect of our community”. If one banner highlighted the reservation issue, the other stated “those against Constitution come to senses”.
  
  Jatav said, “Attack on Dalits is one aspect, but there are several issues. Their (BJP and RSS) leaders speak against continuation of the reservations in jobs; besides EVM tampering is another issue. There are plans to make changes in Constitution as well. We cannot let this happen. We will continue our agitation. Now, we will hold another one on May 21 in Ghaziabad.”
  
  Saharanpur witnessed worst caste violence in the recent decades. In the first instance, on April 20, stone pelting left more than 12 injured when a group forcefully tried to barge into   shobha yatra in Muslim-dominated Doodhli village despite having no permission from the administration.”
  
  The impact of the clash could be felt even at the residence of Saharanpur SSP, where a mob broke furniture and destroyed property.
  
  Just a fortnight later, on May 2, Shabbirpur village saw yet another clash between Thakurs and Dalits over playing loud music in a   jayanti yatra passing through a Dalit basti. Dozens were injured, many houses were set on fire and a person lost his life.
  
  On May 9, Saharanpur city saw a major clash between Dalits and police, in which more than 12 people, including cops, were injured and 20 vehicles torched.
  
  According to Dalit community, again, attempts are being continuously made in nearby villages to disrupt harmony.
  
  “There is a pattern. Dalits are being drawn into conflict. Miscreants are deliberately vandalising portraits and statues of those leaders who are revered by the Dalit community. And all this is happening after BJP came to power in UP. BJP always disrupted harmony before the state elections. Now, municipal elections are round the corner, and they want to create disturbance. But, we will certainly not tolerate this kind of torture”, Jatav added.
