PATNA: The   (SBI) will provide 12,000 swipe (point of sale) machines by March 2017 in its Patna circle, covering Bihar and Jharkhand, to facilitate   being promoted by the Centre post demonetisation of old Rs 500 and 1,000 notes.

 That’s the allocation to the SBI’s Patna circle from the 2.5 lakh   targeted to be distributed by the largest public sector bank this financial year in view of the huge demand of POS machines across the country, sources said.
 
 The SBI’s supply of POS machines is hardly commensurate with the demand, at least in the bank’s Patna circle. PM   announced notebandi on November 8 last year, and as many as 9,000 and odd traders applied to the circle branches for POS machines in the two months till December 31, the sources said and added another 2,000-odd applications were received by the circle in the first week of January this year. 
 
 “We have since issued at least 3,000 POS machines through our branches in the Patna circle,” an SBI official said on Wednesday, preferring anonymity.
 
 Prior to demonetisation, the bank with branches even in interiors would get hardly eight to ten applications a day in the circle. “In a few branches now, around 150 to 200 POS applications pour in every day, and the number is increasing with each passing day,” said the official.
 
 According to the sources, the POS machines are imported by India’s banks from China, Taiwan and Malaysia. “Even if banks up their orders as per the increased demand in such a hugely populated country, the manufacturing firms cannot make the supply,” a retired banker told TOI.
 
 To help the firms expedite supply, the government of India even withdrew its prescription that the machines should have ISI mark, the sources said and added the POS demand-supply gap would be similarly poor, if not worse, in other public and private sector banks.
 
 Traders are becoming restive. Binay Kumar Gupta, who runs a sweetmeat shop on Boring Road in Patna, said he applied for a POS machine three weeks back. “I was first told to open a current account, which I did. I also filled a request form. I still go to the bank every day, and return empty-handed,” Gupta told this paper on Wednesday and regretted that at least 30% of his customers had to be turned away without their purchase for want of a POS machine.
 
 A current account in the bank is necessary for the bank’s POS holder because this account is linked to the machine for the money to be transferred to it from the swiped card. 
 
