MUMBAI: The city recorded the highest September rainfall at least in a decade in just 15 hours on Tuesday. The IMD's Santacruz observatory got 225.3mm from 8.30am to 11.30pm, a quantity which is in the weather category of 'extremely heavy rain' (204.5mm and above). The observatory got over 100mm in just three hours (5.30-8.30pm). 

 The BMC disaster management cell's Twitter handle, otherwise inactive, on Tuesday evening issued an advisory that there won't be extremely heavy rain on Wednesday. At 9pm, the cell tweeted, “Situation in Mumbai City & Suburb is normal..."
 
 The India Meteorological Department (IMD) had issued a heavy rain warning for September 18-19. Though the skies remained largely clear on Monday, Tuesday started with an overcast sky. From afternoon onwards, rain started picking up pace. Heavy rain was received in several areas of the city, including Dadar, Parel, Khar, Bandra and Colaba. The Colaba observatory recorded 169.6mm rain, the highest in September in a 15-hour span. This is more than what Colaba received in the same span during the August 29 flood.
 
 In the 14-hour period 8am-10pm, the BMC's automatic weather station (AWS) registered extremely heavy rain in Andheri (207.77mm) and Borivli (204.19mm).
 
 In the morning, the intensity of rain was more in the southern parts of the city, but by the evening, the pattern had shifted to the north.
 
 Flooding was witnessed in Andheri, Borivli, Sion, Vile Parle (mainly at Milan Subway), Kurla, Parel, and parts of Dadar. The city's all six pumping stations had to be put in operation (the problem of JVPD and nearby areas flooding when the Irla pump gates are opened persists).
 
 Six tree-fall complaints were received by the BMC, four from the island city and two from the eastern suburbs. A large tree crashed at the Shivaji Park Colony, Dadar.
 
 Two people were injured in a landslide in Bhandup. The BMC said boulders fell upon seven houses in the area.
 
 IMD's deputy DG (western region) KS Hosalikar said, “There was a good development of high intensity clouds over the city. There is an offshore trough along the coast as well as a low pressure area over northwest Bay of Bengal, which has caused enhanced rain activity. Loud thunder was owing to the confluence of winds coming from the sea."
 
