PATNA: The BJP on Friday thanked chief minister   for the daylong CBI raids on the premises and residence of   chief Lalu Prasad, his wife Rabri Devi and their younger son and Bihar deputy CM Tejashwi Prasad Yadav in connection with alleged irregularities committed by Lalu during his tenure as the railway minister from 2004 to 2009.

 Senior BJP functionary   said the seeds of the CBI raids were originally sowed by Nitish’s JD(U) in 2008 when the then party state president   alias Lallan Singh and its then national spokesperson Shivanand Tiwari (presently in RJD) had accused the former railway minister of amassing benami properties as quid pro quo for offering jobs to many in the railways and providing RJD tickets to some for contesting elections.
 
 Lalan and Shivanand had held a series of pressers in Patna and Delhi in August 2008 to expose the anomalies in the allotment of two IRCTC hotels to private players and the benami properties amassed by Lalu as railway minister, SuMo said. 
 
 “Lalu is a habitual offender. He did not learn any lessons from the infamous fodder scam and instead of making turnaround in the railways, he himself became a landlord...He would sell the country if he becomes the Prime Minister,” Lallan had said at a press conference on August 12, 2008.
 
 Later, former JD(U) national president Sharad Yadav and Lallan had submitted a 600-page memorandum to the then Prime Minister   seeking action against Lalu. The JD(U) had alleged that RJD MPs gifted land to Lalu family to get berths in the Union Cabinet. Those who received land from jobseekers included Lalu's wife and former CM Rabri Devi, sons Tej Pratap Yadav and Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, daughter Misa Bharti and brother-in-law Prabhunath Yadav, among others. 
 
 SuMo, who has been exposing the alleged benami properties of Lalu and family for the last three months, said many JD(U) leaders and officers in the Nitish Kumar government provided him the land related documents of RJD chief.
 
 “A number of documents, which I have shown in my press conferences, were provided to me by some JD(U) members. A few bureaucrats also provided me some documents. There are many people in the government, who are not happy with Lalu and they helped me in exposing him ,” SuMo told TOI.
 
 “All these allegations were already levelled by the JD(U). I have only come up with more documents in order to substantiate the allegations to ensure that concrete action is initiated against Lalu and his family,” SuMo said.
 
