The run up to the Independence Day is the favourite time for youngsters to fly kites. However, just as the kite-flying season is about to begin, the National Green Tribunal has imposed a nationwide ban on nylon,   and cotton manjhas coated with glass, citing a threat to life and environment. About a year ago, the government had also issued a notice, banning Chinese manjhas, but it hardly had any impact in many parts of the country, including the capital, Delhi, who continued to sell them, despite the ban. However, when we visited the kite market in Old Delhi’s Lal Kuan after the NGT ban, we were pleasantly surprised to see that no one was selling Chinese and nylon manjhas. This has been the cause for rejoice for Bareilly’s shopkeepers. Sellers at city’s Baans Mandi and Bakarganj market say that they expect a boost in the   business. And shopkeepers in both   and Delhi told us that they were neither "selling, buying, nor had any old stock of Chinese and nylon manjhas."

  
  Manjha and kite shops at Baansmandi, near Kutubkhana, Bara Bazaar (Sanjeev Gupta/ BCCL)
 
 ‘FINALLY, BAREILLY KA MANJHA PHIR SE BUSINESS KAREGA’
 
  Dilshad, a manjha seller in Bareilly’s Baans Mandi, says, "Ab toh sirf Bareilly ke manjhe ki dhoom machegi. Humaare yahan ka manjha sirf UP mein nahi balki poore country mein supply hota hai. Soon after the ban last year, we had stopped selling Chinese manjha at our shop and were selling only sada manjha. However, despite the ban, some shops continued selling Chinese manjha. It affected our business drastically and it went down by nearly 60%. People still ask for Chinese manjha but ab poore market mein woh kahin bhi available nahi hai. I’m happy that finally, Bareilly ka manjha phir se business karega."
 
  Inam Ali, a shopkeeper in Baans Mandi, who also runs a manjha manufacturing unit, says, "Soon after the ban, most manjha makers in the city have stopped manufacturing glass coated manjhas. It was quite harmful and manjha makers also get severe bruises while making it. The ban has boosted the business of Bareilly’s manjha makers as most shopkeepers have stopped selling Chinese manjha. We have had a tough competition with Chinese manjha, but it is likely to end now."
 
  WE HAVE HAD A TOUGH COMPETITION WITH CHINESE MARKET: CITY’S MANJHA MAKERS 
 
  Inam Ali, who also runs a manjha manufacturing unit, says, "Soon after the ban most manjha makers in the city have stopped manufacturing glass coated manjhas. It was quite harmful and manjha makers also get severe bruises while making it. We have had a tough competition with Chinese manjha, but it is likely to end now."
  Shabbu Miyyan, another shopkeeper, says, "Instead of crushed glass, we are now using red stone powder as a coating on cotton manjha. This stone powder with cut other strings with much ease, and the advantage is that it is not strong enough to harm humans or birds. Earlier, when Chinese manjha ruled the market, many manjha makers opted for other jobs to survive, but now, thanks to the ban, they are returning to manjha making. They are hopeful that their business will increase ahead of the Independence Day."
 
  
  Manjha and kite shops at Baansmandi, near Kutubkhana, Bara Bazaar (Sanjeev Gupta/ BCCL)
 
 BAREILLY MANJHA MAKERS BACK IN BUSINESS
 
  Alam Khan, a manjha maker, who also owns a shop in Baans Mandi, says, "Six reels of Chinese manjha cost approximately `150 while for desi manjha reels will cost nearly `350-400. Since the Chinese manjha is cheaper, some people preferred buying it, but now that’s no longer the case. Though it’s a bit early to say if our business will see an increase or not, but with Independence Day around the corner, I am hopeful that it will improve."
 
  Salim, a manjha maker from Bakarganj, says, "The NGT ban has given a new life to Bareilly’s manjha industry. Hum toh shuru se hi desi manjha banate aa rahe hain, lekin uski low demand ki wajah se bahut loss hua hai humein."
 
  Anas Ansari, another manjha maker, adds, "Since sada manjha making business wasn’t quite sustainable, I started working at construction sites. With an increase in the demand of sada manjha, I have returned back to my old business. Government should take strict measures to completely stop the production of Chinese manjha, only then will our business thrive."
 
  
  A manjha maker at work at Bakarganj area
 
 
 RATES DIFFER BUT PEOPLE HAVE NO OTHER OPTION
 
  Since Chinese manjha costs less and doesn’t break easily, the customers prefer it to the desi manjha. "Agar aap Chinese manjha ki charkhi lo toh woh aapko `80-150 mein mil jayegi, aur yeh desi manjha `250-450 tak milta hai," says Tanzeeb Hussain, a shopkeeper in Lal Kuan, Old Delhi. 
  
  Altaf Qureshi, another shopkeeper in Delhi, adds, "Chinese was surely cheaper, but it was also harmful. That is why we all are only selling cotton manjha. We haven’t faced any loss because we had no Chinese manjha in stock and since the ban had come last year as well, nobody was supplying it this year anyway.” Mohammad Junaid, another shopkeeper says, “I think it is too soon to say whether we will be suffering any loss due to the ban."
  
  NO CHINESE MANJHA, AB BAS BAREILLY KA MANJA CHALEGA: DELHI’S SHOPKEEPERS
 
  Most of the shopkeepers in Delhi said that they do not have the banned manjhas in their stock. "It has been a year that we don’t have Chinese manjha in our shops. When the Delhi government had sent a notice last year, we had stopped its sale. I don’t think there is anybody in the market who is selling those manjhas anymore. Manjhas from this market are sold across Delhi. Aur agar yahan hi nahin hai Chinese manjha toh baaki sheher mein bhi nahin hoga. The desi manjha that we have is from Bareilly and we are only selling that," says Mohammad Saqib, a shopkeeper in Lal Kuan, Old Delhi. 
 
  Bishan Singh, who owns a shop in Lal Kuan, adds, "We only have cotton manjha and sadda (coloured spool) from Bareilly, no nylon and Chinese manjha.” Liyakat Ali, another shopkeeper, says, “Woh manjha bahut kharab tha, kitna nuksan kar sakta hai. We are happy with the decision to ban Chinese and nylon manjha. Although the manjhas from Bareilly are a bit expensive, its quality is better than the Chinese one." 
 
  – Manyaekta.Gugliani@timesgroup.com, Riya.Sharma@timesgroup.com and Jyoti.Kanyal @timesgroup.com
 
 
