MADURAI: Nearly 100 varieties of bananas are on display at the three-day National   Festival 2017 being held at   and Research Institute of Tamil Nadu Agricultural University (TNAU) which began on Friday. The National Research Centre for   had displayed banana varieties brought from all over the country including  .

 As banana cultivation has turned commercial and tissue cultured varieties have taken over the banana farms, the exhibition gives an opportunity to farmers to have a glimpse of many old varieties, which disappeared from the region. For instance, Ayiramkachi (thousand fruited banana) is now mostly found in Malaysia which was cultivated in the region once and still found in Kanyakumari. There are also other traditional varieties like Matti, Semmatti (the red version of Matti), Monthan, Virupachi, Kuthivali Singan, Nazhipoovan varieties along with regular varieties one could find in the market. Some of them are good as fruits and some as vegetables.
 
 Deputy horticulture officer, K Karthigaisamy from Agastheeswaram in Kanyakumari district said most of these varieties are still cultivated in the district. “Small farmers prefer them because large-scale cultivation requires significant cost on saplings. The traditional ones are raised from banana roots,” he said. 
 
 TNAU’s Pechiaparai station has displayed ‘Poovilla Vazhai’ a variety that never blooms unlike other banana trees where fruits come out of the blossom. This plant produces fruits as bunches without flowers. “These rare ones grow wild in the hillocks. We brought them for display,” said V Krishnan, field officer of the station. 
 
 Director of National Research Centre for Banana, S Uma said that couple of varieties have disappeared over a period of time due to many factors. “We are making an effort to bring them back and carry out research. The Karumpazham variety, which disappeared from Kollimalai hillocks have been reintroduced there,” she said.
 
 An elderly farmer from Madurai, A Alagu Servai says that modern cultivation methods like tissue culture has taken away the taste of the fruit. “We used neem cakes to ward off pests and organic manure to enrich banana plantations and the taste will be too good. The ones we get in market now may fill the stomach and I wonder if they give strength to body like in the past,” he said. 
 
