KOLKATA: Filmmaker Suman Ghosh on Friday uploaded a trailer of ‘The Argumentative Indian’, his documentary on   Sen, drawing angry reactions from Central Board of Film Certification (CBFC) chairperson  . The trailer, notably, did not have any of the four words/phrases that the CBFC had wanted beeped.

 The Nobel laureate had earlier quipped that the film, thanks to the controversy, would surely find more viewers than it would have ordinarily done. On Friday, it took just minutes for the trailer to go viral. Viewers were discussing how Sen was talking about his “peculiar relationship” with the World Bank and insisting he “never liked that organisation very much”. Others were drawn to former PM Manmohan Singh’s description of Sen as a “philosopher, social scientist and social activist” and Paul Samuelson, the 1970 Nobel winner in economics, saying “ideologically he was more Left”.
 
 Soon, news of the upload caught Nihalani’s attention. He told TOI that uploading an uncertified trailer for public exhibition was a “mistake”. He also called Ghosh “manipulative” for using the controversy for publicity. Ghosh said it was “beneath his dignity” to respond to such “ridiculous comments”. 
 
 Ghosh said he was ready to engage in an argument with Nihalani if he said something “substantial”.
 
 “The Cinematograph Act clearly states that certification is required for public exhibition,” said Nihalani. “When a trailer is uploaded online, isn’t it being watched by people in buses, stations and trains? If anybody is uploading uncertified content without certification that can be viewed in public, it is a mistake.” 
 
 On being informed that uncertified films and trailers abound on social media, Nihalani said every portal has a method of “self-censorship”. 
 
 He said, however, that he was absolutely sure that it was wrong on the part of   authorities to have screened an uncertified documentary. “This is wrong, and action has to be taken. How can the hall authorities allow such uncertified content to be shown? According to the Cinematograph Act, this is not right,” he said. When TOI asked the director about this issue, he said: “We took it as a private screening. The whole world allows this. I am surprised Pahlaj Nihalani has no idea about such trends.”
 
 For those who are lashing out at CBFC for recommending the beeps in the documentary, Nihalani said it was important to understand the context in which the words were used. “People are only reading about the cuts, but don’t know the references. Do people know in what context ‘Gujarat’ was said in the documentary? It wasn’t removed to curb his freedom of expression. We are not sitting here to damage his film. If CBFC has found something that could damage the peace and harmony of the country, we have to give the suggestion and recommendations. We respect Amartya Sen. We have nothing personal against him. The film has been shown in Kolkata. It was people in Kolkata who suggested the cuts. Every committee has the right to decide that,” he said.
 
 On being told that many have objected to the fact that comments by someone as huge an intellectual as Amartya Sen were recommended for beeping, he said: “We respect Amartya Sen. But no person is big or small in the eyes of CBFC. We are taking a fee for certifying a content, depending on its length. It’s not our job to see who has made the movie or who has been featured. Our job is to give the right certification based on content.”
 
 Ghosh said: “Everyone agrees that CBFC has been ludicrous in wanting to beep out these words. I would have reacted the same way had this happened to any other Indian... At  , Amartya-da gave a lecture on India. Why should I not use his views from this lecture?”
 
 Ghosh said he had convinced two theatres — at Quest Mall and Nandan 2 — to screen them from this Friday. Nihalani, however, also came down heavily on Ghosh for announcing a release date before certification. 
 
 
