JAIPUR: After three days of questioning of an alleged   of Chennai in connection to his money transfer to UAE, which was allegedly used for IS, the sleuths of   (ATS) on Saturday said that the trader was not aware of the intent of the accused  .

 In the primary investigation so far ATS said that Haroon, the alleged trader could be made approver in connection to the case of two alleged IS sympathizers arrested by ATS in February and November 2016, respectively. 
 
 Haroon was invited by the ATS on Tuesday for questioning after he was given a notice. There were initial reports that he too would be arrested in the case. He was questioned by the sleuths of ATS till Thursday with the help of interpreter since he only knew Tamil. 
 
 “Our investigation so far suggested that he just as a   trader was into sending money to one Jameel Ahamed, another man arrested by us for connection with IS. We had to verify if he knew that the money which was nearly Rs 60,000 was used for IS work. In our interrogation it was almost clear that Haroon had no idea on the intensions of accused Mohammed Iqbal alias Travel Haq who was arrested by us in February and had actually sent the money via Haroon,” said a senior officer of ATS on Saturday.
 
 When contacted, Biju George Joseph, Inspector General of police, ATS, said, “We had moved an application in the court to get his(Haroon’s) statements recorded. In the investigation so far no case is made out against him. Court has asked him to get his statements recorded under 164CRPC on Monday. Thus, he would be used as an evidence in the case to confirm that he had sent money to one IS sympathizer on the direction of other IS sympathizer. Both the sympathizers were arrested by our team.” 
 
 It may be recalled that state ATS had arrested one Mohammed Iqbal alias Travel haq in the month of February for allegedly transferring money to one Jameel Ahmed to United Arab Emirates (UAE). During the interrogation Iqbal had stated that he had got the money transferred via Haroon. Thus, Haroon was questioned to know if he was aware of the intentions of Mohammad Iqbal alias Travel Haq and Jameel Ahmad. ATS had already arrested Jameel Ahmad in November 2016. 
 
 
