GURUGRAM: Police said on Tuesday they would continue with their investigation into the   of Class 2 student   Thakur inside   International School (Bhondsi) on September 8 till the   took over the case.

 The central agency is yet to take over the   as it is awaiting directions from the government. Pradhyumn’s father Barun, who had demanded the CBI probe and got an assurance from chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on September 15, had on Monday expressed exasperation at the delay in the handover. 
 
 Police commissioner Sandeep Khirwar said he had no doubt about the investigation done by cops. “No one can contradict the investigation done by Haryana Police. That’s how we zeroed in on the accused. I’m sure the CBI will also come to the same conclusion,” Khirwar told TOI on Tuesday. “The state government has written to the Centre for a CBI probe. We are hopeful the probe by CBI will start soon.”
 
 Ashok Kumar (42), a school bus conductor with Ryan, has been arrested for killing the boy. Police have maintained he is the only suspect in the case.
 
 Asked when the CBI would take up the case, the agency’s spokesperson Abhishek Dayal said, “We know we will get a notification from the department of personnel and training (DoPT). Whenever we get the order, we will immediately register the case and start our work.”
 
 Right now, the case file is in what is called the “middle stage”, still with the police but awaiting handover. Ravindra Kumar, spokesperson for Haryana Police, said, “This is now a matter between the Haryana government and CBI. Till the case is not handed over by us to the CBI, we will continue to investigate the case. After CBI takes over the case, Haryana police will get a letter from them to hand over Pradhyumn Thakur’s file, which we will do.”
 
 Retired IPS officer Julio Ribeiro said there is no time frame set for the police to hand over a case to CBI. “When a crime happens, the state police always takes that case. CBI has always come at the last moment. In some cases, the CBI takes over a particular case in say after 10, 15 days, one month or even one year.”
 
 Agreeing with Ribeiro, former Mumbai police chief MN Singh said, “Till a case has been taken over by CBI, the state police department remains in control of the case. “Nothing stops the investigating officer from doing his duty till the case is handed over to another agency,” added Kiran Bedi, a former police chief.
 
 
