In a clear indication that the cash crunch is easing, the value of currency notes in circulation has increased significantly over the past fortnight. The value of notes in circulation has jumped by Rs 89,467 crore in the two weeks ending January 20, data with the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) showed. This is the biggest increase in currency in circulation in value terms after the decision to demonetise high denomination notes was announced on November 8. The increase also marks the first time currency in circulation has gone up on a weekly basis for two consecutive weeks after demonetisation.

 There was a massive fall in currency available in the system after the government’s move, which sucked out nearly 86% of notes (in value terms) from the economy. The total value of the currency in circulation stood at Rs 17.74 lakh crore on November 4, RBI data showed. The value of notes available in the system plunged by nearly Rs 3.61 lakh crore in the first week after demonetisation, the highest ever fall, as people rushed to banks to deposit their old high value notes, which had become invalid. Currency in circulation nosedived by another Rs 2.39 lakh crore in the third week of November. The trend continued in December with the month seeing a nearly Rs 2.5 lakh crore fall in currency in circulation as people deposited old notes. The situation improved in the first week of January that saw the value of notes in the system fall by only Rs. 40361 crore on a weekly basis since people could no longer deposit old currency in banks amid an increase in availability of new currency notes.
 
 Despite the improvement in the last two weeks, the value of currency in circulation is still far lower than the days prior to the demonetisation. The value of notes in circulation stood at around Rs 9.63 lakh crore for the week ending January 20 which is 38.5% or about Rs 6 lakh crore lower than the same period the previous year. Currency in circulation has been growing at a fast clip over the last few years. The value of notes in circulation increased 14.9% year-on-year (y-o-y) to around Rs 16.42 lakh crore at the end of March this year, RBI data showed. In fact, the value of the currency in circulation shot up by about Rs 2 lakh crore on a year-on-year basis during November 2016. Currency in circulation as a proportion of GDP (gross domestic product) in India is the highest among emerging economies. The currency-GDP ratio stood at 10.6% at the end of March this year, the highest in 16 years. In fact, India has the highest currency-GDP ratio among BRICS (Brazil, Russia, India, China, South Africa) nations. 
 
 
 
