HYDERABAD: To accurately measure the quantity of water being supplied to each consumer and improve its revenue, the Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB) has decided to fix global system for mobile communication (GSM) technology-enabled water meters. Consumers will have to cough up the meter cost, which could range between Rs 30,000 and Rs 1.5 lakh. Initially, the GSM-based meters will be fixed for connections of one-inch and above. 

 There are 8,122 water connections of 25 mm and above, mostly commercial establishments, multi-storied buildings (MSBs), hospitals and industries, in Greater Hyderabad, according to HMWS&SB records. 
 
 “Of 8,122 water connections, nearly 2,000 water connections have automated water meters (AWMs) without GSM technology. Now, the water board has proposed to install GSM-based water meters for the remaining connections, 6,122. Through GSM-based water meters, we can view accurately estimate the quantity and pressure of water supply online. We can even get alerts if any problems in the water supply. The water board has already invited tenders for fixing the meters,” HMWS&SB chief general manager, Revenue, S Anand Swaroop told TOI. 
 
 Regarding water meters for domestic connections (15 mm and 20 mm), the official said there were 9.10 lakh domestic connections in the GHMC area, but meters were in place at only 2.30 lakh households. “A proposal to purchase water meters with Radio-Frequency IDentification (RFID) technology with water board funds and bill it the customers through their monthly bills is under active consideration,” the official said. A similar model has been adopted by the Bangalore Water Supply and Sewerage Board. 
 
 Though the water board took up a campaign on fixing water meters and even imposed penalties on customers not having meters, there was poor response to the drive and just 25,000 households got the meters fixed, the official added.
 
 The water board plans to fix the water meters with GSM technology before summer, while finish the task of domestic connections within two years, he said.
 
 
