MANALI: Bodies of two National   (NIT) students, missing since January 6, were found near the snow-covered   temple in  's Mandi district on Friday after a 40-member team and a chopper were pressed into service to rescue them. The operation was launched early morning after parents of the boys — Akshay Kumar and   — informed Mandi district police that they were missing from NIT Hamirpur campus for more than a week.

 The bodies were found at a short distance from the temple, which is situated at a height of 10,900ft. One body was identified as that of Akshay, a resident of Sujanpur in Hamirpur, from an identity card found in a bag he was carrying. The other body could not be identified but officials suspect it is of Navneet of Bilaspur.
 
 Himachal is in the grip of extreme cold weather conditions with snowfall reported from several areas. The temple area, too, is under 20-100cm snow and the temperature has hovered around minus 15 degree Celsius this week.
 
 It could not be ascertained whether the students were climbing to the temple or on their way back. Both had not informed their parents or relatives about their visit to the temple situated on a hilltop in Janjehli. According to sources, they had told a friend that they were going to Shikari Devi and parents started looking for them only when they failed to contact them for five days. The parents then visited the NIT campus and met Janjehli sub-divisional magistrate  , seeking help.
 
 Earlier reports said there were four missing NIT students, but police said they had received complaints about the two only.
 
 Mandi additional superintendent of police Khulbhushan Verma said, "We collected call details of the students. Police, with the help of local mountaineers and residents, launched a search operation on Friday morning. Two bodies were recovered and are being brought to Mandi for autopsy after which they will be handed over to the parents."
 
 Sources said a chopper had also flown to Shikari Devi area to help the rescue mission but the teams on the ground had already found the bodies.
 
 Eight youths, including seven BTech final year students of an engineering college in Punjab, had gone missing near Chanderkhani peak of Kullu after heavy snowfall in March last year. A massive search and rescue operation was launched to reach them and they were rescued after an operation lasting three days.
 
