Sanjana Sindhe

 Fests are an integral part of   life. Be it with the fashion shows, dance events, personality tests or food stalls, these occasions have something in stock for everyone. But regulars to the fest circuit will testify that no matter how diverse the crowd that comes to an event, there are certain ‘types’ of people who will be there without fail.
 The  
 These are the participants who come to events with the sole intention of winning. “Always on the look-out for empty spaces where they can squeeze in a few last-minute practice sessions, these ambitious ones are always trying to partake in as many events as possible,” says Illisha Kala, a student.
 The Missing Lot
 An undeniable part of every college fest, these are the ones who are excited about every event in town, except their own. Constantly found hanging around the stage and watching other performances with rapt attention, this bunch nearly always misses their own. No fest is complete without several announcement calls to find them.
 The  
 These people are normally found skulking around the ticket counters, waiting for a time when others push and pull their way in, only to make their way in without shelling out a penny. Known to be the most kanjoos people out there, this set is always found on the prowl for freebies and opportunities to piggyback off others’ money.
 Pompous Organizers
 Funny as it sounds, every college-going student would agree to the fact that event organizers yearn for moments when they can show off their 'crew' gear and be recognized as the ones running the show. “Whether by needlessly carrying around a walkie-talkie or by wearing the same, unwashed ‘Core Team’ shirt on all days of the fest, you just cannot miss proud organizers at fests,” says Sonali K, a fourth-year student of architecture.
 
  AND, WHEN YOU HAVE VISITORS...
 The biggest challenges at fests pop up when you have students/participants from other colleges on your  . Suddenly, the list of things to handle doubles, with accommodation, hospitality, travel and tons of extra details to manage.
 The  
 These guys insist on a hundred email confirmations, there is not dearth of back and forth mail and telephonic correspondences to ensure everything is perfect to the T. Not surprisingly, the lot in charge of this always seem super busy handling one issue or the other.
 Professional Comparers
 Some of the most hated groups in these venues are the annoyingly superior ones who don't miss out on any opportunity to compare their city's proficiency with the one they're visiting. From food to event management, these seemingly professional comparers pick apart every tiny issue they encounter, much to the dismay of those around them.
 The Miscommunicators
 "These are the worst to handle," says Purnima Chowdary, a nineteen-year-old student. “From leaving us hanging without proper confirmations 
 to last-minute cancellations, the teams that create confusion with their miscommunication are horrid,” she adds. Notorious for backing off at the eleventh hour and wreaking havoc on plans, these teams are an organizational nightmare. 
 
 
