PUNE: Coping with the trauma of   is a daunting task, more so if the victim is a child. Without proper support from the society and the government, most parents of abused children prefer to “move on.“

 A student of a city school, who was abused by a driver a few months ago, is still to recover from the trauma. The student has changed schools, and the family has moved from their residence. They have even requested the police to not bother them anymore. This, however, is not an isolated case. Many other families have approached the police to withdraw their complaints, only because of the lack of support from government and society .
 
 According to police officials and counsellors, many child sexual abuse cases get registered, but eventually, the lack of counselling or government support coupled port coupled with basic lack of awareness pushes many parents to withdraw the complaints. Sometimes, a complaint is withdrawn even as the chargesheet is being filed, said  , the coordinator of the  , which is a project of Foundation of Child Protection. The project reaches out to the complainants though the police and provides free counselling.
 
 With the government not forming any cell to provide assistance to such families in distress, it is left to groups like Muskaan to come to their aid.“We are able to help the police because we work extensively in this field. We have also provided training to poli' ce officials at nearly 38 of the 41police stations in the city,“ said Ambike.
 
 Police officials add that in the absence of a specific framework to handle, counsel and deal with such cases, most complainants do not wish to proceed with the case.
 
 A parent of a four-year-old, who was abused by the tempo driver, lodged a complaint with the school principal and sought a change in the mode of the child's transport. But she never registered a formal police complaint as they “did not want to risk our child's safety“.
 
 One police officer mentioned a case from south Pune, in which a case was registered under the   (POCSO) Act. However, since the complaint was against a relative of the child, the family refused to pursue the case.
 
 “Unless there is awareness in the society , many such incidences will either go unreported, or the cases will be later withdrawn. There must be a system that will give people the confidence to report such cases, and pursue them,“ a cop said.
 
