BAREILLY: Samajwadi Party-Congress alliance, which is relying a lot on   to strengthen its prospects, might hit a roadblock at   in Bareilly due to the presence of   (IMC), the party floated by Sunni Barelvi cleric  .
 
  The cleric enjoys popularity among among Sunni Barelvi Muslims in Bareilly because he is the grandson of Imam Ahmad Raza, popularly known as Aala Hazrat, who was the founder of Barelvi movement. Tauqeer Raza Khan’s party is expected to corner a sizeable number of minority votes, giving an indirect advantage to BJP. This was demonstrated by party's performance in the last assembly elections where IMC won only one seat but finished in third or fourth positions in eight other constituencies in Bareilly region.
  
  This time, of the nine assembly constituencies in Bareilly district, IMC has fielded candidates in five — Bareilly city, Bareilly Cantt, Bhojipura, Nawabganj, Bithri Chainpur and Faridpur. All these constituencies have a large Muslim population, who constitute 60,000 to 1.28 lakh of the voters. That is why political analyst predict that IMC will play spoilsport for SP-Congress alliance in these seats.
  
  The IMC has become infamous in the region as “vote-katua” or vote splitter ever since it contested state assembly polls in 2007. There have been allegations that “IMC contests polls as part of a strategy to help or defeat some party”.
  
  However, Khan said, “We are not contesting elections to play spoiler. Even we did not field any candidate in Baheri because there were already too many Muslim candidates of other parties. If we had jumped into the fray, it would have led to a division of minority votes, benefiting communal forces.” There are nearly 2.27 lakh Muslim voters in Baheri alone.
  
  The cleric has been emphasizing that Mulayam had accepted that his son Akhilesh‘s way of working is against Muslims and due to this, the community should not vote for SP. In the last UP assembly elections in 2012, IMC won only Bhojipura seat but its MLA Shazil Islam soon deserted the IMC and joined SP.
  
  This time around, the IMC candidates comprise rebel leaders jumping ship from other parties. These include Shaila Tahir, Mahipal Yadav, Islam Baboo, Sher Ali Zafri — all Mulayam loyalists who were denied ticket by the new SP leadership — who have joined IMC and would be contesting from their respective constituencies.
  
  This is causing considerable anxiety to SP cadre here. District party president Sublesh Yadav had been running from pillar to post to placate the rebel leaders and bring them back into party’s fold. While Subhlesh was successful to bring back Islam Baboo, efforts to win over the others is yet to bear fruit.
