Call it a strange twist of fate. Olympic gold medallist   will be representing Hyderabad when she takes on city shuttler PV Sindhu, in her backyard, at   today. Sindhu will be playing for Chennai, in what is the opening game of this season’s badminton league. And Carolina has been practising at the same academy where Sindhu cut her teeth in badminton. So does she have a strategy planned out to avenge her recent loss to Sindhu at the Badminton World Federation World Super Series in Dubai? “Every championship is different, so is every game. Sindhu and I had a face off in Olympics, so people may think that we know each other’s game. I had to give my 200 per cent to defeat her at Rio. It’s going to be a very different match today. For one, this game will be in the 11-point format so it’s going to be fast and thrilling. So we have to do things differently to get the better of each other,” says the Spanish world no 2. 
Although Marin admits to being “good friends” with Sindhu, looks like there is no love lost between the duo on the court. “We are good friends off the court. We stay in touch. But on the court everyone is an enemy. Sindhu is such a good player that you have to be at your best when you face her on court,” says the 23-year-old.
 The native of Spain’s South Western city, Huelva has notched up a number of ‘firsts’ to her name — the first Spanish shuttler to top the world rankings, the first to clinch a Grand Prix Gold title (2013) the World Championship (which she won twice in 2014 and 2015), the youngest European world champion ever, the first Spaniard and the first non-Asian to win an Olympic gold in singles. And she’s dashed Indian hopes a lot in the last couple of years. Marin defended her World Championship title by beating   in 2015 before winning her Olympic Gold medal by defeating Sindhu at the Olympic finals in Rio last August. But looks like the Indian fans have welcomed her with open arms.
 “India is an amazing country and the fans here are doubly amazing. No matter what, I have had a steady fan following in India that increased after Olympics. I am so thankful for that and I hope to get the same support from them in Hyderabad when I clash with Hyderabad’s own girl,” she says signing off.
 
 
