Visakhapatnam: Disputes among local politicians of Vizag district resulted in the   being located in Vizianagaram district instead of the earlier proposed Anakapalli.

 Two MLAs Bandaru Satyanarayana Murthy of Pendurthi and Peela Govind of Anakapalli have been fighting to ensure that the hostel is located in their respective constituency. 
 
 “The government has decided to set up the sports school in Vizianagaram. For permanent hostel building and administrative building, the detailed project report (DPR) is being prepared by the Nagarjuna University physical education wing,” district sports development officer Nagireddy Surya Rao told TOI.
 
 Initially, the regional sports school was sanctioned at Anakapalli in Sabbavaram mandal under Pendurthi constituency over 50 acres. But the authorities could not arrange for the land. They later shortlisted a parcel near AML College in Anakapalli. This resulted in a tussle between Pendurthi MLA Bandaru Satyanarayana Murthy and Anakapalli MLA Peela Govinda Satyanarayana as both wanted to set up the school in their respective constituencies. The issue was finally referred to chief minister Chandrababu Naidu, who advised the district officials to shift it to Araku, which was adopted by him. 
 
 The government is planning to start a regional sports hostel like the Hakeempet Sports School near Hyderabad in Telangana and the regional sports hostel in Kadapa.
 
 Sources said the sports school is likely to start from this academic year as the state government has given Rs 20 crore administrative sanction out of the allotted Rs 50 crore. The school would start in rented premises. The existing grounds in the Sir Vizzy Stadium on the outskirts of the town would be utilised for coaching the children. The engineering staff of the sports wing had visited Vizzy stadium which extends to 72 acres and enquired about the facilities.
 
 The children would be selected based on battery tests (physical fitness and agility) from class IV to SSC. The sanction strength of the school is 360. The government had also given clearance for appointment of coaches in various disciplines like athletics, volleyball, kho-kho, swimming, archery, weight lifting, football, kabaddi, hockey and shooting.
 
 The Sports Authority of Andhra Pradesh is also planning to conduct national camps of various sports in Vizianagaram.
 
 
