PATNA: Bihar CM  's son Nishant is four times richer than him, according to the assets details declared by the chief minister himself.

 Apart from Nitish Kumar, all other 28 ministers including RJD chief Lalu Prasad's two sons - Deputy chief minister   and Health minister   also furnished details of their movable and immovable assets.
 
 While Nitish has assets including cash, bank deposits, a Ford car, cows and calves, an exercise bicycle, a flat in Dwarka (Delhi) worth Rs 56 lakh, his son Nishant’s total assets are worth Rs 2.36 crore.
 
 In Bihar, the CM and his cabinet ministers declare their assets on the first day of each year since 2010.
 
 As per the details declared by the CM, he has a Ford car (worth Rs 11.32 lakh), a flat in Delhi's Dwarka worth Rs 40 Lakh, 10 cows and five calves (Rs 1.45 lakh), Rs 78,000 deposited in three bank accounts, an exercise cycle (Rs 18,000), cash in hand worth Rs 42,566 and a few other items. 
 
 There is, however, no increase in the worth of the assets owned by the CM or his son in the last one year. Nitish also has a loan of Rs 3.79 lakh.
 
 Nitish Kumar’s deputy in Bihar cabinet Tejaswi Prasad Yadav, on the other hand, has no vehicle but owns a number of plots around the state capital.
 Tejashwi, who is the younger son of RJD boss Lalu Prasad and former CM Rabri Devi, has a majority of plots in Danapur and Phulwarisharif locality of the greater Patna. He also owns a plot in Gardanibagh muhalla in Patna.
 
 Tejashwi’s elder brother and state’s health minister Tej Pratap Yadav has a car worth Rs 29 lakh, a motorcycle (Rs 15 lakh) and deposits in bank accounts of about Rs 3 lakh. Like his younger brother, Tej Pratap too has some plots of land in Danapur and Phulwarisharif localities.
 
 Finance minister Abdul Bari Siddiqui has a revolver, a rifle, a gun and bank deposits of around Rs 26 lakh. Siddiqui has an SUV and an old Maruti car. Similalrly, the industries, science and technology minister Jai Kumar Singh too has a revolver and a rifle.
 
 The water resources minister Rajiv Ranjan Singh alias Lallan Singh too possesses one pistol and a rifle. He has a car worth about Rs 7.30 lakh and bank deposits of around Rs 1 crore. He also owns a shop in the state capital. The Art, Culture and Youth minister Shiv Chandra Ram has 6.10 kg silver, 100 gm gold whereas his wife has 455 gm gold and 2.25 kg silver. Ram also has owns plots of land in Patna and Vaishali districts.
 
 Similarly, the rural development minister Shrawan Kumar has jewellery worth Rs 2 lakh whereas his spouse has jewellery worth Rs 5.35 lakh.
 
 
