KOPPAL: When the whole district is reeling under drought and people are experiencing the impact of the second consecutive year’s drought, the   has opened six goshalas in 20 hoblis. For the record, 629 villages and nine towns have   like cow,  .

 Mallayya Hiremath, a farmer in Itagi, told TOI: “Goshalas have been opened in one corner of the taluk. How can we take our animals there?”
 
 Veeranagouda Hakkandi, another farmer, recalled government distributing fodder a few years ago. “It was a better system; we could take care of our animals at our place itself. Now, we’re bringing fodder at Rs 4,000 per tractor load. We need to pay another Rs 4,000 for transportation,   and other expenses. It’s very difficult for ordinary farmers to spend Rs 8,000 for fodder. The government should sanction this amount to us individually,” he said.
 
 Umeshappa Sulibhavi, a farmer of Katral, wanted goshalas in all hoblis. “Though our village is about 20kms from the hobli headquarters Yelburga, we somehow send our domestic animals which are not kept for milking. However, we cannot send and bring milking animals to and from the goshala every day,” he said.
 
 Meanwhile, Ningayya Vibhutimath of Alavandi village felt lucky that his village has a goshala. “Our animals get good fodder and water there and we’re happy they’re being treated well. Currently, there are only eight workers to look after 370 livestocks. The number may go up soon. The administration should increase the number of workers,” he said.
 
 He also noted that a veterinarian posted at Hatti is looking after the  . “The post of veterinarian is vacant at Alavandi and Kavalur. The government should ensure that no post is vacant during drought,” he added.
 
 Dr Vijaykumar Unki, veterinary officer of Hatti who is looking after the Alavandi goshala, said 370 livestocks have been accommodated there. “About 200 livestocks stay there and the rest 170 come in the morning and leave in the evening. We’re getting 5-6 trucks of fodder per week and have sufficient water supply. We have requested higher officials to provide a 5hp chopper cutter,” he said.
 
 “We have opened six goshalas -- one each at Alavandi in Koppal taluk, Kalakeri in Kushtagi taluk, Kanakagiri and Venkatagiri in Gangavathi taluk and Chikkavakkalkunta and Tallur in Yelburga taluk -- from January 23. The tender for fodder supply was called in December. Each goshala gets 10-20 tonnes of fodder per week based on their requirement. Responding to farmers’ requirement, we’re opening fodder banks at Mangaluru, Hanamasagar, Hanamanal, Irkalgada, Tavargera, Bandi Harlapur and Yarehanchinal where farmers can buy fodder at Rs 2 per kg. The government buys it at Rs 6 per kg. We can increase the number of goshalas considering availability of sufficient space, water and shelter,” said Dr Shivanna, deputy director, department of animal husbandry and veterinary services, Koppal district.
 
 He said there was a system of distributing the amount directly to farmers subject to bills produced by them in 2011-12. “Following cases of misuse, fake and false bills, it was stopped. There were cases of producing bills of 5 tonnes, but buying 1 tonne and though it was bought locally, producing transport receipts of bringing it from Ballari and other distant places. We have asked the deputy commissioner to provide 7hp chopper cutters to cut fodder. The tahsildar concerned will procure them soon. Meanwhile, we have sent a proposal of Rs 38 crore to the government to buy fodder for animals from April 1 to June end in the district,” he said.
 
