He’s young and sweet no doubt. But   — the son of celebrated actor-directors Churni and   — is making his debut in a film that may catapult this first-year student of   into the league of promising talents in the industry. In that sense, he will then be hot and sweet — which is quite different.

 Ujaan, all of 18, has been snapped up by young director Pavel for  , their film on the life and times of the 19th century inventor of the sweet, Nobin Chandra Das. Pavel’s earlier film, Babar Naam Gandhiji, had won rave reviews.
 Ujaan tells us, “When I was in Class V and changed to trousers from shorts, I realised I had to fit in somewhere. It was intimidating, but the first activities that I got involved in were elocution and dramatics. When I started taking part in dramatics, I got to know Indrasish Lahiri, who was in JU when my parents were there. They would do theatre together. He was an English teacher in my school and I joined the drama team he ran. Since then, I am doing theatre.” Ujaan says it’s because of Lahiri, his parents and school that he has come this far.
 
 “They groomed me for school theatre and then I started doing musicals under Chandan Sen and Katy Lai Roy. In college, I joined Mad About Drama and am currently part of the production Babai Weds Mamon — a Wes Anderson-style play. It’s a dark comedy about an alcoholic getting married to a woman who gives birth to one dead baby after another. I play Mamon’s brother, who is very crazy, filmi, dramatic,” he tells us.
 So, how did Rosogolla, the film, come about? “When I was in Class X, I did a musical called Smike, which Shibu mama (  Mukherjee) had seen. He had said then that he would cast me some day. When my mother told me the other day to take his call, I knew what was coming. But I had no clue it was the lead role,” he says.
 
 Aware of the highs and lows of a career in movies, Ujaan says academics to him is no less important. “I want to become a teacher; it will give me the time to work on my talents. My parents were both teachers.” To debut in a film that has a huge cultural significance in Bengal is a dream come true for the young actor. “It’s a beautiful plot. My character is struck by the wonder of invention and is lost in his own world. That apart, the film depicts his platonic yet childishly sweet romance with his bride, Khirodmoni,” he adds. 
 Churni says, “He was inclined towards the arts as a child — he would act, sing and draw, but I saw them as extracurricular activities. As parents, Kaushik and I never pushed him into anything. When the offer came from Shibu, I was truly surprised. I just hope Ujaan lives up to his expectations and stays like the way he has always been.”
 
 Pavel is no less impressed by the actor. “I had youngsters coming to me for the role. I would think how to turn them into Nobin Chandra Das. When I first saw Ujaan, I realised this is my Nobin. His simplicity, coupled with his innocence, is his USP,” he says. The shooting schedule of Rosogolla, the production of which is helmed by   and Shiboprosad, will be locked in keeping with Ujaan’s exam dates in Jadavpur University.
 
 
