VARANASI: A three-member committee constituted by the district magistrate to probe into Varuna Corridor, a project launched by the  , has recommended quality test of the ongoing work by a team of technical experts.

 After chief minister   took stock of   Front Development Project in Lucknow last week, the Varanasi district administration also swung into action to check the progress of Varuna Corridor, a project for river front development and channelization of river Varuna.
 
 DM Y R Mishra constituted a three-member team of the officials of PWD and Housing Development Board under ADM (administration) Munindranath Upadhyaya on March 24. After taking stock of the ongoing work of the project, Upadhyaya submitted his report to the district magistrate. 
 
 When TOI contacted Upadhyaya, he disclosed that the report has been submitted to the district magistrate.
 
 In his report, Upadhyaya mentioned that the project had already failed to meet the deadline of its completion, which was January 2017. Till date, he disclosed, out of 11.30 km area of the project the work of channelization has been completed in only 6.55 km, bank retainment with Geo material in 2.5 km, laying pipeline to intercept sewage discharge in 7.5 km, footpath construction in 665 mt and stone railing works in about 700 mt area only. 
 
 Out of the five proposed ghats, the ADM said, work has been started on three only. Now the agencies concerned have fixed June end as the new deadline to complete 65% work of the project.
 
 Upadhyaya said that as the nature of the work in different patches of the project is uncommon, there is a need for checking the quality of material and work by a team of technical experts.
 
 The project was proposed by the last government in January 2016. After sanctioning a budget in April 2016, the UP Project Corporation and irrigation department started the project of Rs 201.65 crores with an aim to complete it in January 2017. However, the agencies failed to meet the deadline. 
 
 Later, the then chief minister Akhilesh Yadav announced dedication of the project from Lok Bhawan in Lucknow before the promulgation of model code of conduct for the 2017 assembly polls.
 
 Incidentally, a fire was reported in the rolls of Geo net mysteriously on Holi day. Divisional commissioner Nitin Ramesh Gokarn had ordered a probe into the fire.
 
