Opinion polls in France before the presidential election on April 23 are revealing a crazy roller coaster ride. The Centre is split down the middle and under siege from both the radical Left and the far Right, the faux Socialists are caving in after Hollande's disastrous presidency and an incredible third of populace is angrily saying they won't   at all.

 All are agreed that this is one of the most unpredictable, scandal-ridden and unnerving elections in recent memory . France has a lower economic growth rate than the  , unemployment is at 10%, double that of   and UK, and a recent report by charity Secours Catholique says that poverty increased by 2.7% between 2015 and 2016. There is deep economic discontent with unemployment tagged as the most important issue.
 
 All this is reflecting in the fragmented polls.
 
 Most polls report that  , who split from the Republicans to float his own party, is in a dead heat with Marine Le Pen, the feisty far right leader contesting on a reformed but still anti-Islamic, jingoistic platform. The official Republican candidate Francois Fillon has been dragged down by scandals of him paying money to get his wife and relatives jobs with no work.
 
 France has a two round presidential election system.In the first round, to be held on April 23, 11 candidates are in fray . If nobody gets over 50%, then a second round will be held on May 7 where only the top two will be fighting.
 
 Chances are that it will be Macron versus Le Pen and all polls show Macron beating her handsomely. But there is a twist in the tale. While Macron and Le Pen have polled a steady 23-25% votes in surveys, the radical Left candidate Jean-Luc Melenchon has spectacularly risen from just 12% a month ago to 18% recently. One poll even showed him edging past a stagnant Fillon to third place.
 
 “A seasoned performer who has mellowed over the years and now presents a paternal image, Melechon has picked up support from those disillusioned with Hamon and mobilised new young voters. His mastery of the latest digital techniques has impressed the public and commentators alike,“ Alistair Cole, professor of political science at the Sciences Po, University of Lyon told TOI.
 
 But what is not being given enough attention to is that over a third of those asked to reveal their preferences in opinion polls are saying that they will either not vote or that they will cast protestspoilt votes. The high incidence of undecided voters reflects unease about the choice of candidates, says Cole.
 
 “Macron's stance is neither left nor right which is attractive to many ­ but he is untried and untested, hence his potential support, while very high, is fragile.Melenchon is getting support on the left (and beyond the left) on account of his repositioning as a national patriot, determined to defend France against internal and external enemies. But he scares many with his commitment to quit the Euro-zone and probably the EU in the event of victory,“ Cole said.
 
  
 
