PATNA: Have you planned an early vacation taking a cue from Patna DM Sanjay Kumar Agarwal’s order to schools to shut for summer holidays from May 14? Hold on, some of the city schools have planned to conduct remedial and special classes even after May 14 and the district administration is okay with it.

 St Michael’s High School plans to run remedial classes for at least a week. “Remedial classes are meant for students of classes VI to X, who are not good at studies. These classes help them prepare important subjects like science, mathematics and social science for examinations,” vice-principal Fr Christu Savarirajan said, adding the remedial classes would be held from 8am to 9am.
 
 A few other schools will conduct special classes for students belonging to classes X and XII, who have to write the Board examinations in 2018. These classes are meant to complete the syllabus in time and give ample time to students for revisions.
 
 A Notre Dame Academy official said early summer vacation would create problem for students as well as teachers. “As it is, the classes this year were delayed due to the postponement of CBSE exam. Senior teachers were busy evaluating answer books,” the official said and added the special classes would go on for a week or two, depending on the need.
 
 According to Gyan Niketan vice-principal S M Jha, preoccupation of teachers with evaluation of answer books, late session and early dismissals due to heatwave conditions are among the reasons why schools feel the need to conduct special or extra classes during the summer vacation. 
 
 “These classes are important as most of the syllabus could not be covered in classrooms,” said Jha on Wednesday.
 
 Baldwin School principal Rajiv Ranjan Sinha nodded. “Senior students need special classes. We will soon decide whether we will hold our 10-day special classes at the start of the vacation or towards the end,” he said.
 
 The DM, who has ordered schools to close from April 14 for summer vacation, told this reporter the administration would not prevent special or remedial classes since they are in the interest of needy students. “If schools approach us for permission to hold special or remedial classes, we will allow them,” said Agarwal. 
 
 
