 has said that the state government is planning to set up plants for generating oxygen through air at hospitals with 100 to 300 beds. In an exclusive interview with Priyangi Agarwal, Singh also said the government will not open any CHC/PHC across UP this year and will focus on improving the existing services by allotting more funds. Edited excerpts:
 
 
 
 We are improving the current system. We are also planning to constitute plants for generating oxygen through air at hospitals with 100 to 300 beds.
  
 
 
 There are two things – Japanese Encephalitis (JE) and Acute Encephalitis Syndrome (AES). For JE, the vaccination is available and our government created a history in August by vaccinating 93 lakh children in the state. There is no vaccination available for AES across the world. The only prevention is when the children have high fever, they should be immediately treated and that’s exactly we have done. We have strengthened the Paediatric Intensive Care Units (PICUs). After providing a week-long training to paramedical and doctors, we appointed them in Gorakhpur and Basti. Hence, there has been drop of 8% in admission of AES cases at BRD College. We will strengthen the PHCs in 38 districts of UP, where JE and AES cases are reported.
  
 
 
 
 Such cases were reported as the previous government had not made the payments for fuel, but we have cleared all the payments. You haven’t heard of such cases in past some weeks. 
  
 
 .
 
 It hasn’t come to my knowledge. We will take note of it.
  
 
 
 
 We are not going to open any new PHC or CHC this year. Our priority is to improve the condition of existing PHCs and CHCs by providing doctors and enhancing the facilities with the releases of more funds.
  
 
 
 
 When I took the charge as health minister, there was vacancy of 7,800 doctors in the state. As we have increased retirement age of doctors, the state got 1,000 doctors. Besides, we have appointed 2,065 doctors after conducting interviews. We have instructed Ayush doctors to treat patients at PHCs. Besides, I met Asia-Pacific head of World Bank on Friday to improve the state of 175 district hospitals of UP. 
 
