HYDERABAD:  , which has been the bedrock of the  , has been a cradle of public movements even before the historic Arts Building became functional. One such agitation was to protest a ban on singing   on the campus.

 The year was 1938 and the magnificent building of the Arts College was just getting finishing touches. The university was still located at its interim campus in Basheerbagh and the Nizam government was preparing to shift it to the present campus at Tarnaka-Adikmet.
 
 A group of students began singing Vande Mataram during the prayer hour, much to the chagrin of the university authorities. The irritation of the authorities stemmed from the fact that the Nizam was a “faithful ally of the British government” and they did not want any sort of protest against the British rule to take shape on the campus. Through an order on November 28, 1938, singing of the patriotic song was banned on campus.
 
 The agitation against the order picked up soon and spread out of Hyderabad to other places under the Nizam Dominion. But the heat was intense at the varsity. According to newspaper archives, around 350 students of OU were suspended as they went on strike as part of what came to be known as the Vande Mataram movement. In all, as many as 2,000 students in various towns, including Warangal, were barred from educational institutions.
 
 A fact less known is that P V  , who would go on to become the chief minister of undivided Andhra Pradesh and then the Prime Minister of India, was one among the suspended students from Osmania University.
 
 Senior leaders of the time intervened on behalf of the students and requested authorities of various universities to accommodate the students to save their academic year. While many institutions refused, Nagpur University welcomed them. There, these students formed the Vande Mataram Students’ Union.
 
 About a year after the ban on the song, the new Arts College building was inaugurated by Nizam VII Mir Osman Ali Khan in December 1939. But within eight months of this, the campus was on the boil again, reveals archival data. On August 26, 1940, seven students of the varsity refused to buy tickets while travelling from Jamia Osmania railway station to Nampally railway station. The railway authorities — Nizam’s Guaranteed State Railway — booked cases of ticketless travel and handed them over to the police. Upon their arrest, several students gathered outside the police station and the residence of the vice-chancellor demanding the release of the students. The protest soon took a violent turn. The relative peace that returned to the campus after this incident continued till 1969, when a full-blown separate Telangana agitation took the university by storm.
 
 
