NEW DELHI: Refusing to back off in the political slugfest over “nationalism”, junior home minister Kiren Rijiju on Wednesday tweeted a video of a serving Army jawan criticising those who allegedly batted for terrorists like Afzal Guru and Maoists or flagburners while the armed forces put their lives on the line. 

 As the heated debate on   and nationalism post the violence at Ramjas College and the video post of Delhi University student   Kaur shows no signs of abating, Rijiju hit out at BJP’s opponents using the jawan’s video in which he criticised anti-India slogans at the protests. The jawan, identified as Shriram Gorde of 9th battalion of Maratha Light Infantry, can be seen addressing a large crowd and describing people who “live in India but shout slogans of Bharat Murdabad” as a bigger threat than terrorists. He is posted in Jamnagar. 
 
 Along with the video, Rijiju tweeted: “Pain runs deeper than the ocean. Very sad that our jawans are forced to speak with heavy heart.” His obvious targets were the Left, Congress and student groups who have backed Gurmehar's criticism of BJP-aligned ABVP and threats against her. Gorde told TOI that he has been posted in Uri sector once during his 13 years of service in the Army but not in the camp that was attacked on September 18. “I and many like me have been fighting in the Army for so many years. When our people support the enemy, it hurts,” he said. 
 
 
  
 
 Asked how he managed to speak at a Katha event and address such a large gathering, Gorde said, “I have been going to Rashtriya Katha Shivir for the past two years. I approached the organisers if I can go on stage and speak my mind. I did and everybody sitting there agreed with me.” 
 
 But does this constitute a violation of Army discipline? “The Army is looking into the matter. The soldier in question had been deputed with others for the ‘Know your Army’ campaign for Rashtriya Katha Shivir organised by some veterans. It’s a common practice. He did not approach the media or know that his statement would be recorded and go viral,” said an officer. 
 
 In the 1.46 minute video, which Gorde claims was shot at the Katha Shivir at Pransla, 100km away from Rajkot in Gujarat, he slams students who sympathised with 2001 Parliament attack convict Afzal Guru or 1993 Mumbai blasts convict Yakub Memon. Referring to the JNU protest last year, Gorde says, “We (soldiers) don’t feel sad to see Afzal Guru being hanged. But we are sad to see people chant slogans that “Afzal hum sharminda hai, tere qatil zinda hai“. 
 
 Gorde can also be seen expressing unhappiness over criticism of the Indian army’s surgical strikes on September 29, 2016 on terror launch pads in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir as reprisals for the September 18 terrorist attack at army’s Uri camp.
 
