NEW DELHI:   (SP) founder   is on his way to Delhi to meet Election Commission (EC) officials following Sunday's split in the party ahead of crucial state polls later this year. 

 The SP's election symbol, the cycle, is the issue Mulayam will discuss with the EC. 
  too is back from London and is 
  to the EC for a meeting scheduled for 2pm. 
 
 "The Samajwadi Party's election symbol is my signature," said Mulayam, indicating he isn't going to let go of it easily. 
 
 Mulayam's brother Shivpal arrived in the Capital earlier today and expressed his allegiance for his brother who's called 'netaji' by most people. 
 
 "Netaji is currently party president and will remain so in the future too. I will be with netaji until my dying breath," Shivpal said upon his arrival in Delhi.
 
 Uttar Pradesh 
  - Mulayam's son - 
  , dislodging his father as Samajwadi Party president and installing himself as the boss at an "emergency convention" of the party.
 
 In the meanwhile, Amar Singh, whom many blame for the split in the SP, told the media today that he too is with Mulayam all the way through. "I am with Mulayam Singh Yadav and can even become a 'Khalnayak' for him,"   said. 'Khalnayak' means villain.
 
  Mulayam, who's 77, said today he's in perfectly good health amid reports of blood pressure problems following a gruelling weekend that culminated in his son Akhilesh revolting against him and his uncle Shivpal, to cause the SP to split. 
 
 "I am not unwell at all, I am completely healthy," Mulayam said. He further praised the media for "always standing by him." "The media has always stood by me. I haven't done anything wrong or corrupt. If there have been allegations, the Supreme Court has absolved me," Mulayam said, according to ANI.
 
 In other developments today, Uttar Pradesh chief minister   called a meeting of SP lawmakers, scheduled for 11 am. And   said earlier today that a convention scheduled for January 5 has been postponed. Shivpal further asked SP workers to prepare for the assembly polls in their respective constituencies.
 
 
 
 
 
 
