Ayesha Begum, 25, gave birth to a baby boy within minutes of walking into Mila Chowdhuri Para camp in Teknaf in Bangladesh’s Cox’s Bazar province. She was in an advanced stage of pregnancy when everyone alive in her village in Myanmar’s Rakhine province was forced to flee. 

 As Ayesha struggled through the hilly terrain and jungle tracts, she constantly worried about the fate of the life she carried in her womb. Now, 11 days after a healthy boy has been delivered, the worries have not ceased. Like her, the child has been condemned to a stateless existence.
 
 Not just her baby, an estimated 80,000 unborn children face the same fate. That is how many pregnant   women are believed to have crossed into   from   since August 25. “On an average, we have been performing two deliveries and attending to 65 mothers in advanced stage of pregnancy,” said Tania Akhter, a midwife working at the United Nations Population Fund ( )’s sub-center at Balukhali, Ukhia.
 
 While Bangladesh has extended support to over 4 lakh Rohingya refugees, the country has refused to grant citizenship to children born to them. Constitution experts in Bangladesh reasoned that the country’s Citizenship Act, 1951, does not have the provision of citizenship based on birth. 
 
 
 “We are going by the Citizenship Act which mandates that if parents are of foreign origin or they are in Bangladesh for diplomatic purposes, their children will not be granted citizenship by birth,” said Bangladesh I&B minister  . “We have therefore demanded that Rohingya refugees be repatriated to Myanmar and given citizenship by the country. This can only be done through a tripartite initiative of United Nations, Myanmar and Bangladesh,” he added.
 
 That though appears unlikely in the near future as the refugees are so traumatised by the situation back home that they can’t even imagine returning to Myanmar. Nur Begum, 28, who gave birth to a girl, is unwilling to risk her life and that of her child on the promise of citizenship.
 
 Tasnuba Nourin, a doctor working with the International Organisation for Migration who has been attending to patients at the Mila Chowdhuri Para camp and delivered Ayesha’s son, is, however, more worried about the immediate needs of the mother and child — nutrition. 
 
 “Lactating mothers require iron & folic acid supplements. So they need a balanced diet after giving birth Add to that the anxiety of the mother and vulnerability of the newborn to infections,” Samir Kumar Howlader, national programme officer (health) of IOMsaid.
 
 
