HYDERABAD: Wednesday was a memorable day for   and   as the doubles shuttlers got engaged to play the biggest match of their life.

 But for Sikki, last Sunday was also an unforgettable day as she defeated her fiancé in the mixed doubles final and won her maiden Grand Prix Gold title. Sikki, partnering Pranaav Jerry Chopra inflicted a straight game defeat to Sumeeth and   in the final. And Sikki said that when it comes to   there is no love lost.
 
 Interestingly, on the same day Sikki and Ashwini lost to Olympic silver medallists Kamilla Rytter Juhl and Christinna Pedersen in the women’s doubles final. This was also Sikki’s first silver in a GP Gold tournament.
 
 A lot seems to be happening for the 23-year-old, who despite possessing enough talent did not get a big break so far in her career. Things started moving in the right direction for Sikki after double Olympian Ashwini decided to pair up with the Hyderabadi girl. Ashwini achieved a lot in women’s doubles along with  . The duo are the only Indian pair to win the Commonwealth Games Gold and a bronze at the World Championships. But after  , doubles coach Kim Tan Her decided to form a new pair and Ashwini agreed to partner with Sikki.
 
 It turned out be one of the biggest career decision for Sikki. “I was thrilled when Ashwini wanted to play with me. She is already a big player and has been looking for a younger partner. I am also looking for partner and thanks to our coach it worked out,” said Sikki.
 
 The duo started competing from last November. They did well at the Scottish Open, Welsh International before excelling at the Syed Modi Grand Prix Gold last Sunday.
 
 Sikki did not have any special feelings playing against her future life partner Sumeeth or doubles partner Ashwini on Sunday. “I was just like another match for me. The day before they defeated top seeded Danish pair so we planned on how to stop them. I don’t remember how many points I have earned by hitting at Sumeeth. Once he is on the other side of the court he is just like any other opponent for me,” said Sikki adding that after the match Sumeeth teased her a bit. “He teased me like you beat me but we are professionals and so I did not think much about our relationship before or after the match,” she added.
 
 Sikki is all praise for her senior partner. “Ashwini is a great partner and helps me a lot on how I should approach the match. She is very helpful and is happy with the way that our partnership is progressing,” she said.
 
 The duo will play in the Asian Mixed Team Championship to be held in Vietnam from February 14 and are gearing up for the All England Championship next month.
 
