CHANDIGARH: Freebies is not what they want. They want free education. Giving away mobile phones and fancy gadgets won’t lure them. They want real issues to be taken up by the new government that comes to power in Punjab. A young and well-informed lot, 30 people under the age of 30, got together not only to raise questions but also to give answers on their expectations from the new government ahead of the Punjab assembly elections on February 4 at a TOI event held at Chandigarh University in Mohali on Tuesday. 

 The youngsters talked extensively how drugs, unemployment and agrarian crisis are correlated. Industry is where the youth want the new government to focus upon. They seek a minimum support price (MSP) for each and every crop and implementation of the Swaminathan report so that the income of farmers increases. 
 
 The opinion of youngsters on drugs stand divided. While some feel that drug menace is not limited to Punjab only and politicization of the issue has brought the state infamy, others feel villages show the real picture. 
 
 Nirjog Mann from Panjab University says, “If you want to see how grave the situation is, you should visit the villages of Punjab. I have seen a lot of people in the last few months saying that drugs are not a problem. They are lying. Political parties are trying to fool us that they can ban drugs. If they can ban it, does that not mean people on rehabilitation without drugs will die? If we openly talk about it, only then the problem will be solved.” 
 
 For Bikramjeet Singh of Chandigarh University, drugs is about three things: time, availability and choice. “The major problem is that there is no skill and when there is no skill, there are no jobs and when they don’t have jobs, they have ample time, and then they do drugs,” says Bikram. So, he says there is a need to strengthen skill development among youth in Punjab. 
 
 These 30 under 30 strongly feel that Punjab should focus on industry since it can help solve the problem of unemployment and drugs as well. The youth want to know where will political parties generate jobs from when the industry in Punjab is in a shambles. Which sector will the parties create jobs from is what the youngsters think should be the question. 
 
 An alternative that these youngsters suggest to tackle unemployment is upgrading sports infrastructure and aligning the youth towards sports. Bikram says the youth of Punjab is not getting into sports and they are not being provided with right resources. Ranwant Singh, an international hockey player, says that there is a dire need to upgrade sports infrastructure in Punjab. One student says that an Olympic-level stadium in Ludhiana is lying abandoned and there are no coaches and amenities being provided at the stadium. These youngsters feel that drugs can be managed through sports. 
 
 The youngsters also feel strongly about the suffering of farmers in Punjab. One of the students of Chandigarh University in audience says before waiving off debts, the state needs to look into the reasons behind these huge debts. These debts are due to failed policies of the state government and spurious pesticides, he adds.
 
 While some believe that the farmers who compete with others to give swanky cars to their daughters in weddings should not be waived off their debts, others believe that debts for farmers who are not repeat offenders should be written off. 
 
 Arjun Singh Sekhon from PEC University says waiving off debts for farmers looks good on manifestos. “What we can do is look for alternatives rather than waiving-off farmer loans. Implementation of policies like Bharat Nirman programme can be done to resolve the problems, he adds.
 
 For startups, while some of these young people feel the education system does not train them, others feel agriculture-based startups will be more successful in a state like Punjab. “If we want to introduce the culture of startups in Punjab, the government should introduce single-window clearance,” says Upinder from Panjab University. 
 
 These youngsters also want the new government to return to basics of electricity, water and roads. “Water crisis is an issue which is going to trouble our state in the future. Also, none of the manifestos talk about the power crisis that we have in Punjab,” says Rasleen Kaur of Panjab University. 
 
 WHAT THE AUDIENCE WANTS
 
 We don’t care who forms the government, but common man needs change 
 
 Free education is the key, if they give us free education, we can handle it all 
 
 We want good roads so that number of road accidents reduce significantly
 
 Political parties should have it in their agenda to educate farmers about how to double their income
 
 Need back-end support from banks and policies to favour start-ups in Punjab
 
 Rural educated people need to be provided vocational training so that they can get employment. A simple BA won’t help them get jobs
 
 If we want to address the problem of drugs in Punjab, we have to see where does it come from
 
 About the event
 
 The Times of India joined hands with Chandigarh University and decided to go to young voters of the state and ask them what their expectations are from the new Punjab government that will be formed on March 11. TOI asked a bunch of 30 people below the age of 30 to draft a “Below 30 Manifesto” for the state. The participants for the discussion were students from Chandigarh University, Panjab University, and PEC University of Technology. This was an apolitical programme with the intention of creating a manifesto of the people.
 
