The residents of   society in Noida Sector 78 were preparing for a usual morning on Wednesday, but little did they know that a mob, armed with sticks and stones, was marching towards them. The mob attacked the society, believing that a 30-year-old woman   - who works in the society as a domestic help - had been held captive and thrashed by one of the families in the society, accusing her of theft. The violence, which started around 6am, ended at 11am after the police intervened. Zohra was later found in another house in the same society.

  During the three-hour siege of Mahagun Moderne, which is home to over 2,000 families, the mob pelted the society wall and guards’ enclosure with stones and concrete chunks. Some of them even forced their way in and vandalised the flat of merchant navy officer Mitul Sethi, where Zohra was believed to be held captive. 
 
  
  
 
  While it is yet to be established if she had stolen money at the Sethis' house, Noida Police has detained over 50 people involved in stone pelting at the society. We spoke to a few residents about the ordeal and they say they are still in a state of shock.
 
 
 
 After pelting stones, the crowd had gathered on the road, blocking the movement of traffic on both sides. Residents of the society say that they were trapped in their apartments for hours and were scared that the crowd might enter their homes and vandalise their property. 
 
 
  
  The angry mob entered the society and vandalised the property 
 
  Varun Dubey, who stays in the society, recalls, "The mob broke glasses and damaged the common property of the society. They broke the main gate and entered the society. They were so furious that we thought that they will enter our homes. Around 40 guards and four cops tried to prevent them from entering the society, but since they were in hundreds, the guards were outnumbered."
 
 
  
  
 
  He adds, "Most of the kids in our society had to skip school. Their school buses were waiting at a distance from the society, but seeing the situation had gotten worse, they left the spot. It was my first day at this firm I have joined in Sector 64. I had to report at 9.30am, but I could manage to reach office only by 12.30pm."
 
 
  
  An angry mob gathered at the front gate of the Mahagun Moderne society in Noida
 
 
 
 Shashwat Ghai, a student at Amity University who stays in the nearby Princely Estate, says, "I had left my place with my friends at 9.45am. I was at   when I saw the chaos there. I didn’t realise for a long time that the road had been blocked by a mob. I tried to drive past the other side but they had blocked that too. It was just a normal morning for me and I thought the jam would clear in 15-20 minutes. But the mob came and started banging on the cars. Thankfully, the police came and controlled the situation."
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  (BCCL/ Priyanka Narula)
 
  
 Nrpendra Mishra, a resident of Mahagun Moderne, tells us, "My brother was supposed to go for his coaching classes, but he had to skip them. I too had to take leave from my office. The crowd was pelting stones incessantly and we couldn’t step out of the society. Darr tha ki kahin car na tod dein humari."
 
  
 Sameer Awasthi, who was stuck in traffic in front of the society, says, "I have been trying to look for a job since several months now. Finally, I got an interview call from a firm. But the moment I reached Sector 78, I saw an angry mob blocking the road. I was stuck there for two hours and had to take a detour to my destination."
 
 
 
