MUMBAI: It's late Tuesday afternoon and it's raining cats and dogs. There's a football match going on at Fr. Agnel's Ground in Navi Mumbai. The players look tired playing on the rain-soaked pitch and just want to finish the match and get home. Looking on from the stands is 17-year-old  . He's wearing an India jersey which has his name on it. He's here to attend his college's (Fr. Agnel) training session after the match.

 Despite only four of his teammates being present, he is still enthusiastic about getting ready. His friends tell him that the practice session is going to be called off, but he's still waiting for the coach. He loves the game that much. “I just want to train,” he says. 
 
 Just a little over a year ago, he was a regular feature in the Indian team that will soon take part in the   U-17 World Cup. Gaston's love for football came naturally. His dad Michael played the sport professionally and always encouraged his son to take up the sport. Seeing his speed, agility and ability to deliver pinpoint crosses into the box, his school coach decided to play him as a wingback.
 
 In 2013, Gaston was selected to train at the Indian youth academy. He was however dropped in 2014 and told to work on his attitude. That was the time when India were awarded the rights to host the U-17 World Cup and his age-group players were the ones eligible to play the tournament.
 
 While he was distraught at getting dropped, it didn't stop him from training. Soon he was selected to represent the youth team of  . In April 2015, India U-17 coach   held trials at the Cooperage Stadium in Colaba and Gaston made the cut. In July, Gaston travelled with the team to Germany, Iran and Spain. It was during the last leg of the tour where he pulled his groin and had to be sidelined. He recovered in Jan 2016 and was immediately called up by coach Adam.
 
 Things were going well for Gas ton and he was selected to represent India in the 2016 U-16 AFC Championships which were held in Goa in September. But there was something troubling him. His shin was hurting, but he dismissed it as just a niggle. He shouldn't have. Further tests revealed that he had a stress fracture and that meant he would be out for two months. When he went back home, his mother insisted on him having a MRI scan. The results were heartbreaking. It was confirmed that it wasn't a stress fracture, but a tumour. Thankfully, it was benign and all he needed was Radiofrequency Ablation (RFA).
 
 He got that done in the first week of October and was recovering well. The only problem was that the team was doing well without him. The coach though never lost faith in him. Finally, in January 2017, he got a call asking him to return to the squad on the 30th of that month.
 
 Things took a dramatic turn on the 22nd of the month, when news emerged that the players had revolted against the coach and he was to be fired. With his ouster, Gaston's dreams of playing in that team too faded. The new coach Luis Norton de Matos said he wanted a change of system and wanted to hold trials again.
 
 Gaston took part in the trials but never made the cut. He came back to Mumbai to continue his education. He plays for Union Bank of India in the MDFA league, but he would rather be playing for India in the Under-17 World Cup.
 
