THIRUVANANTHAPURAM:   sent to those who had made handsome deposits at local cooperatives in every nook and corner of the state is not a Kerala-specific phenomenon. Similar operations, to unearth black money, have been going on in India, said sources in the   (I-T) department.

 As part of the 'clean money' initiative ­ launched immediately after the demonetisation move on November 8 last year ­ the department has embarked on data mining to retrieve the details of all major money transactions across financial organizations in India. Data mining includes collecting details of those involved in money transactions, along with the trail of the transactions, from end to end.Office of the director general (systems) under I-T department has updated its software and all such transactions that have been made, including cooperative banks, have been accessed by the department.
 
 “Cooperative banks mandatorily have to submit all their deposits as well as transaction details to the Reserve Bank (RBI), which is invariably shared with the I-T department,” said a top I-T department source, adding that more notices would be issued in the coming days to those involved in all such transactions. Though a lower limit for money transactions ­ which will be scrutinized by I-T sleuths ­ has not been fixed, all transactions above Rs 2 lakh are being scrutinized as the Centre has fixed the same amount as the limit above which transactions cannot be done using liquid cash.
 
 I-T sources said that many people believe that they can escape I-T sleuths if they deposit their money in cooperative banks, which is a wrong perception.
 
 “Those who do so end up paying more tax. In addition to penalty, they have to face prosecution," an I-T official said.
 
 He cited an example to explain the same. Suppose a person sells his land that he had bought for Rs 25 lakh, a few years ago, for Rs 75 lakh. If he discloses the entire sum involved in the transaction, he is liable to pay only 20% as capital gains tax on the profit he makes, that too after discounting the inflation index calculated for the number of years during which he had held the land with him.
 
 On the other hand, if he hides the remaining Rs 50 lakh, it will be invariably traced by I-T department and he will have to pay 33% tax, in addition to a stiff penalty and face prosecution. In 99% cases, the person will end up in jail.
 
 Sections 276 (c) and 276 (c) (c) of the I-T Act state that a person, in all probability, would get rigorous imprisonment for seven years. In addition, as per the section 269 ST of the I-T Act, any transaction made in cash above Rs 2 lakh is banned, and those involved will have to pay a sum equivalent to the transacted amount as penalty.
 
