NAGPUR: The Mudliyar household at Ramteke nagar in   turned into a   for an economically weak couple and their one-and-half year old daughter after court dropped charges of rape and kidnapping against 23-year-old man paving way for a ‘they lived happily ever after’ ending.

 On record, it was a trial for getting an accused punished for forcibly whisking a 15-year-old minor for marrying her but in reality, various pillars of criminal justice system joined hands behind the curtains to ensure a family was not shattered. 
 
 The jubilant moment came for the Mudliyars on Wednesday when District and additional sessions judge VC Barde, also special judge for cases under  , 2012, acquitted Manish of the charges levelled against him by Ajni police through a FIR launched on March 13 in 2013. The offences of rape, kidnapping and other charges were registered against Manish after his former girlfriend-turned-wife’s mother had approached the cops complaining that her daughter Suhani (name changed) was lured away by the culprit. 
 
 Manish and Suhani, who stayed at the same neighbourhood, eloped after developing affair between them. They went to Gujarat where Manish and Suhani tied knots before giving birth to their only daughter in October in 2013. A year after the birth of their daughter, Manish and his wife returned to city before facilitating their arrest by Ajni police.
 
 The humanitarian episode kicked off after the Ajni cops witnessed the agony of the couple and their daughter as they were about to be separated for completing legal formalities. As serious offences were registered, Manish was sent to jail. It was reliably learnt that some cops contacted Advocate Sameer Sonwane, a Pro-vidarbha activist, to legally assist the man. Sonwane, who fought the entire case without any professional fee, helped Manish get bail after 15 days. Addl public prosecurtor Deepak Kohle too took the case with emotional approach after learning about the facts.
 
 It was also reliably learnt that some senior judicial officials also ensured that the priority of the family and its requirements were preferred rather than evidences on records thus facilitating the acquittal. 
 
 Sonwane said the rape survivor was admitted to school after few years of age and so she was shown as minor in the school records by mistake of her mother. “The biological age in which the girl had eloped was when she was actually adult but records reflected something else which was projected during the trial,” he said. The girl’s mother too later accepted the daughter’s choice and helped in the acquittal.
 
 
