PANAJI: In the last five years, nothing much has changed in  . There is shortage of water and job opportunities, market spaces are cramped, drains overflow, there is no strong sewerage drainage network, and the infamous   slum in Chimbel continues to be an eyesore.

 In 2012, when Goa went to polls to choose its representatives at the state assembly, Atanasio ‘Babush’ Monserrate had promised to develop St Cruz as good as Taleigao. Monserrate was the Taleigao MLA for 10 years before he decided to shift to St Cruz, and his work spoke for him — wide roads and rapid development, which amongst others was the envy of neighbouring St Cruz, and the people hoped their village would transform for the better.
 
 St Cruz, though, still remains the same.
 
 In Monserrate’s favour, it could be said that he was “out of power” and remained helpless, but not many are willing to buy that argument. He was inaccessible as well, making infrequent trips to his offices in St Cruz and Chimbel, but his supporters show reams of notebooks that detail how much he helped his constituents financially to clear medical bills and buy schoolbooks.
 
 This time around Babush is contesting from Panaji — his third constituency in as many elections — but he remains an important factor. 
 
 The Congress candidate from St Cruz, Antonio Fernandes, better known as Tony, is known to be a close associate of the   and was hand-picked by the man himself in his not-so-tacit understanding with the Congress.
 
 “The key to this election is to understand whether Babush is a liability (for Tony) or an asset,” said one keen observer from St Cruz.
 
 Tony, former sarpanch of St Cruz (his wife now holds the position) is a low-profile politician, who holds significant influence in his home village of St Cruz. His biggest trump card, though, is the Congress ticket, and he should be reasonably confident that the voters will vote in the party again, just like they have done in the last six elections since 1989.
 
 Tony, though, needs to exert influence beyond his village and, crucially, in the slum of Indiranagar, which commands close to 5,000 votes. It is here that Babush’s role — besides muscle and money power — will be vital.
 
 “If Babush roams around here for two days, or nights, he can swing it (vote) in his favour,” said one government official from the locality.
 
 For any candidate to emerge triumphant, it is important to capture Chimbel, particularly Indiranagar, which consists of more than half of the over 9,000 votes in the village. During the last assembly elections in 2012, Congress secured 3,171 votes from Chimbel, enough for Babush to turn the tables on his rivals.
 
 It is precisely for this reason that the   (AAP) decided to bring Delhi chief minister and AAP national convener   and star campaigner Kumar Vishwas to the slum area for a public meeting. It’s an area that AAP candidate Joe Gomes has spent a lot of time explaining the party’s ideology to the voters, but whether Joe’s explanation and Kejriwal’s appeal cuts ice, remains to be seen.
 
 What is for certain is that independent candidate Rodolfo Fernandes will count on his benefactors in Indiranagar to sail through. Rodolfo finished second in 2012 elections pulling 6,308 votes as an independent candidate after his mother and former MLA, Victoria Fernandes, was denied a ticket. 
 
 Rodolfo was hoping for a Congress ticket this time around and, observers say, would have sailed through comfortably with the hand symbol to count upon.
 
 BJP has nominated Hemant Golatkar as its candidate. Golatkar has remained active in the constituency for some time now, helping constituents with several government schemes, but he will have to hope that MGP candidate Prakash Naik — a strong contender — doesn’t do too much damage if the party has to win this seat for the first time.
 
 The closest that BJP got to winning this seat was in 2002 when Anil Hoble, in a triumphant rally, almost reached his residence in Merces after ‘winning’ the election. Victoria promptly sought recounting and emerged triumphant with 40 votes.
 
