GURGAON:   has dismissed the   against the administrator and members of a  , in which some members had posted allegedly  , after a year-long legal battle.

 The WhatsApp group was formed by home buyers of a  , to discuss issues related to delay in possession. The discussions led to accusations and exchange of “objectionable words”. This landed the group administrator and other members in legal trouble, when a defamation case was filed against them. 
 
 In an earlier order in the same case, issued in December 2016, Justice Rajiv Sahai Endlaw had observed that administrators of WhatsApp, Telegram and similar social networking services cannot be held guilty of defamation, if group members post libellous or obscene messages. On May 5, the same judge dismissed the petition, directing members to refrain from using objectionable language on such platforms.
 
 The defamation case was filed by architect Ashish Bhalla in May 2016, seeking an injunction before Delhi high court against “defamatory posts” on the WhatsApp group of home buyers of projects in Manesar and Gurgaon by AN Buildwell Private Limited. Bhalla had contended he himself was locked in litigation with the builder since 2014, that he was neither a promoter nor shareholder of the company, and had submitted proof of actions of vested interests that had misguided the customers.
 
 Appearing for Bhalla, Shaunak Kashyap submitted they did not want to press damages against the defendant, as they were sympathetic towards customer concerns. 
 
 Anil Sharda, a home buyer, said, “I’m happy the court realised we (home buyers) have not committed any offence.” He said having invested their life’s savings but still waiting for their homes, the home buyers had merely vented their frustration. 
 
 The court had earlier given clean chit to group administrator. “I’m unable to understand how the administrator can be held liable for defamation for statements made by a member. To make an administrator of an online platform liable for defamation would be like making the manufacturer of newsprint, on which defamatory statements are published, liable for defamation,” the court had observed in December 2016.
 
