NAVI MUMBAI: Residents are upset about the lack of civic action against illegal hoarding and posters along the roads. The   garden department is not bothered about illegal advertisements being nailed and stapled to trees along city roads, public gardens and recreation areas. This is evident even when NMMC is trying to beautify the city for the FIFA Under 17 World Cup to be held at Dr D Y Patil Sports Stadium in Nerul from October 6-28.

  Trees along   and Ghansoli node have been specially affected. Residents complain that NMMC is not adhering to the high court order on removal of defacement and initiating action against the culprits. 
 
 “The custodian of the trees—the civic garden wing is least bothered of its upkeep. Besides, NMMC is also incurring losses in revenue from these illegal advertisements,” said a Ghansoli resident, Amar Gurang. 
 
 Such defacement has not been confined to Thane-Belapur Road and Palm   butis visible at almost all internal roads across the city. 
 
 Even the sprawling gardens and waterfront corridors have not been spared by the miscreants who have hammered nails to the trees to hang advertisements or cutouts. The scenic Sagar Vihar, Mini Seashore in Vashi and Sarovar Vihar in Belapur and Nerul lake along Palm Beach road have undergone large-scale defacement.
 
  Anil Sankpal, a naturalist, said, “These advertisements and banners are making the cityscape ugly. In addition to traffic junctions and road sides, the miscreants have targeted the trees by sticking bills free of charge. This could cause serious damage to the trees. At a time when the civic body is creating green patches and beautifying the landscape for the junior World Cup, these hoardings stuck to trees project an ugly image.”
 
 Additional municipal commissioner, Ankush Chavan said that the defacement will be removed soon.
 
 “We have received complaints. All ward officers have been instructed to initiate action to adhere to high court orders,” said Tushar Pawar, deputy municipal commissioner and head of NMMC garden department.
 
 
