Stress, tension and   have become commonplace these days. Everyone is running behind their targets, forgetting to take care of their health in their busy schedules. Research suggests that stress is a contributing factor for high BP. Yoga is an ideal way to deal with it. 15-20 minutes of breathing exercise is excellent for your heart health. Yoga therapy is a multifunctional exercise with numerous benefits. Not only does yoga reduce high BP but it has also been demonstrated to effectively reduce blood glucose level, cholesterol level, and body weight. Yoga researchers demonstrate that yoga works because it modulates the physiological system of the body, specifically its effect on the heart rate.
 
  Study published in  , 2016, evaluated the effects of yoga on blood pressure (BP). Patients were randomized to Yoga, Blood Pressure Education Program [BPEP]), or a combined program (COMBO). At baseline and at 12 and 24 weeks, ambulatory blood pressure was measured. Data are presented for all enrolled patients (n=137) and for completers only (n=90). Systolic blood pressure (SBP) and diastolic blood pressure (DBP) were significantly decreased within all groups at 12 and 24 weeks for enrolled patients and completers. Systolic blood pressure was significantly reduced in the yoga and COMBO groups as compared with the BPEP group at 12 weeks in all enrolled and completers. BP lowering with yoga, however, was similar to that achieved with lifestyle measures.
  
  Many case reports, population-based surveys as well as clinical trials indicate that yoga is a relatively safe intervention that is not associated with more adverse events than other forms of physical activity. Yoga can thus be considered a safe and effective intervention for managing hypertension.
  
  Consult your expert yoga therapist for details.
  
  
 
  1. Holist Nurs Pract. 2012 May-Jun;26(3):137-41. doi: 10.1097/HNP.0b013e31824ef647.
  2. J Clin Hypertens (Greenwich). 2016 Aug;18(8):809-16. doi: 10.1111/jch.l2772. Epub 2016 Jan 15.
  
  
 
  Dr. K. Chockalingam, MBBS, MD, DM (Cardio), Consultant Interventional Cardiologist, Royal Care Super Speciality Hospital, Coimbatore, Tamilnadu.
  E-mail: kclingam@gmail.com
  
  
 The views and opinions expressed by the Doctors are their independent professional judgment and we do not take any responsibility for the accuracy of their views. This should not be considered as a substitute for Physician's advice. Please consult your treating Physician for more details.
  
  
