NEW DELHI: Physical fitness of IPS probationers is something that the Modi government is not willing to compromise on anymore. Two young officers who were sacked last year for failing to clear the 'swimming' and 'cross-country race" tests as part of the IPS foundation course, were reinstated last month after they, on being allowed a second chance, managed to clear the two key physical fitness papers.

 Similarly, while one 2015 batch IPS probationer having weight issues has been issued show-cause notice for failing to pass the "cross country race" test, two probationers from the 2016 batch, one of whom was found overweight and another showed a high blood sugar level, had to make do with a provisional medical fitness certificate. The two were asked to work on reducing their body mass index and blood sugar to permissible levels before being declared "medically fit" for confirmation as IPS officers.
 
 Kusum Punia, a 2010 batch IPS officer belonging to   cadre, was discharged from service last year, even as she was on probation, for failing to clear two of the 14-15 papers that make up the basic course for IPS probationers at the National Police Academy. Sources said Punia was sacked as she did not respond to repeated pleas and multiple opportunities to take the two tests.
 
 Another 2011 batch IPS probationer from the   cadre,  , was sacked along with Punia last year for not clearing the mandatory cross-country test paper.
 
 However, after they filed a plea seeking a second chance, Union home minister Rajnath Singh, taking a compassionate view in the light of their humble family background, allowed them to be reinstated but on the condition that they clear the remaining papers of NPA course. Both Punia and Gautam reappeared for the said papers and having passed them, will now be confirmed as IPS officers.
 
 Sources said the initial action against Punia and Gautam has sent a strong message among IPS probationers who tend to take their foundation course at NPA lightly. "The probationers now realise that they will have to face the implications if they fail to clear all the papers in the course," said a senior officer of the home ministry, which is the cadre-controlling authority for IPS officers.
 
 A 2015 batch IPS officer of   cadre, meanwhile, has been slapped a show-cause notice on why he should not be discharged from service for failing to clear the cross-country test paper, which is mandatory for confirmation as an IPS officer. Sources said though he has appeared for the test more than once, he could not clear it as he has weight issues and collapses while running.
 
 At least two IPS probationers from the 2016 batch at NPA had to wait before being declared medically fit ahead of confirmation. While one of them was found to have a body mass index of 32.15, way above the internationally acceptable standard, another was found to have a high sugar content in his blood. 
 
 Both were given time to cut their BMI and blood sugar level and made to reappear for a second medical test after a few months. It was only after they satisfied the maximum BMI and sugar level criteria that they were declared medically fit, paving the way for their confirmation.
 
 "The underlying principle behind insisting on physical fitness of IPS probationers is that they should be ready to meet the high fitness levels demanded by a career in the police services," said an officer. (ENDS)
 
