LUCKNOW: Edged out of the pre-poll alliance between Congress and  , Ajit Singh’s Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) has become a new magnet for rebel candidates denied tickets from  . So far, nearly 20 rebels have gravitated towards the   after being dumped by their parent parties. 

 Among others, Bhagwan Sharma alias Guddu Pandit was given a ticket from Bulandshahr and his brother Mukesh Sharma from Shikarpur. The two left SP to join RLD. The party also fielded Swami Pravaktanand from Barkera in Pilibhit. Pravaktanand had contested the 2012 polls from the same seat on a BJP ticket. This time, however, BJP refused him a ticket.
 
 The movement of rebels has also allowed the RLD to spread its wings outside its traditional votebase of West UP’s Jat belt and into Eastern UP, where the party has traditionally performed poorly, often forfeiting its deposits. Till Wednesday evening, RLD had released seven candidate lists of 132 candidates, with party leaders suggesting more might follow in case more ‘winnable’ candidates could be identified. 
 
 Responding to a query about RLD’s decision to test waters in constituencies it has never contested from before, RLD national spokesperson Anil Dubey said, “In 2007, RLD had fielded 250 candidates. This time also, a lot of candidates have approached us asking to be allowed to contest on our symbol. Our focus is on identifying winning candidates for all 403 assembly seats.”
 
 RLD has been through a tumultuous January, first getting elbowed out of the SP-Congress alliance, and then, by the Nitish Kumar-led   (United), which announced its decision to pull out of the electoral fray in poll-bound UP. Though the leaders had maintained they will contest the UP polls in an alliance with the Nationalist   (NCP), JD (Secular) and the Mahaan Dal, both NCP and JD(S) have remained ambivalent on this. RJD leader Lalu Prasad and JD(U) president Nitish Kumar, in fact, are not expected to campaign for the SP-Congress alliance in UP.
 
 RLD had won nine seats in the 2012 UP elections, when it had contested 46 seats in alliance with the Congress. All these nine seats are scheduled to go for polls on February 11 — the first phase of elections. Despite getting pushed into a corner in the pre-poll scenario, the RLD’s aggressive fielding of candidates is seen as the party’s attempts to remain relevant electorally. With current political configurations looking uncertain, RLD, even if it repeats its 2012 poll performance, may still be key to post poll negotiations.
 
