MUMBAI: The Mandarin Oriental in Singapore was not the first choice for the venue. It was Shangri La.
 
  But the construction work at main lobby of the Orchard Road property has made it into a pile of concrete and highly inconvenient.
  
  This was no leisure trip for Ratan   or for his trusted deputy,   CFO Ishaat Hussain. It was serious business -- one that staked the corporate reputation of India’s largest conglomerate as well as that of the country.
  
  The clock was also ticking and it was weeks before Natarajan Chandrasekaran was to take charge at the corner office. Ever since he took charge as the interim chairman of the Tata Group and thereby became its chief arbiter entrusted to end 2 years of a high decibel public acrimony, Tata deep down was eager to find a resolution before the change of guard.
  
  So as he entered the Harbour View Suite 1 on Level 5 on a pleasant morning of 3rd of February to greet Kazuhiro Yoshizawa, CEO and President of   and his senior leadership, Tata was hell bent on hitting home run.
  
  It helped that the ice was already broken. Both sides had grown closer since their last informal face to face meeting on December 3rd in Tokyo. Tata was especially “touched” that Yoshizawa spared time on a Saturday to meet and figure out realistic pathways to a total resolution. The mail correspondence and phone calls had started even earlier with Yoshizawa himself reaching out to Tata last September introducing himself after taking charge of the storied Japanese corporation that June from Ryuji Yamada.
  
  Tata too on his part had also openly expressed his despair to see a “wonderful relationship getting jeopardised” and a wonderful alliance disintegrate. What had hurt him most was the impasse erode the goodwill between two leading organisations with ascribed motives and actions that impinge on their corporate value systems.
  
  But why did the relationship reach its nadir?
  
  
 
  In 2009, NTT Docomo bought 26.5% stake in Tata Teleservices for about Rs 12,740 crore. The two agreed that if Tata Tele failed in financial and market performance Tatas would need to give Docomo an exit buy buying back   at half the investment value or finding a buyer at higher than that.
  
  The venture stuttered and the Japanese wanted to cash out. But in May 2013 Tata Tele’s equity value had fallen below half the invested value and Reserve Bank of India objected to buyback under foreign exchange norms. Docomo filed for arbitration and won a $1.2 billion (Rs 7,250 crore) award in June 2016 when Tata Sons did not pay the promised amount. However, Tatas, under Mistry, continued to maintain it was bound by the country’s public policies and was not ready to make any “illegal payments” and fiercely objected to award enforcement in local courts.
  
  
 
  
 
  “From his first letter way back in September Tata has been vocal about honouring the commitment that he gave to his Japanese telecom partner within the prevailing laws of both the countries,” said an official close to him on condition of anonymity. “Docomo has publicly acknowledged that.”
  
  Across informed corporate circles, it is widely believed that Cyrus Mistry’s mishandling of the Docomo dialogue had further compounded the breach of trust between him and his former boss and played a key factor that precipitated the boardroom coup of October 24th that saw his unceremonious sacking from the Tata top job.
  
  So how did both JV partners decide to dial truce after being at each other’s cross hairs for most of 2016? What went on behind closed doors in the corridors of power in New Delhi, Tokyo, Singapore and even Mumbai that finally salvaged the situation from turning into a full blown corporate and diplomatic impasse that had even cast a shadow on Tata’s sprawling global empire?
  
  ET spoke to close to a dozen officials on both sides to get a ringside view of the negotiations and strategy that finally saw both sides join forces last Tuesday when they filed a joint petition at Delhi High Court to settle the dispute over the $1.17 billion due to the Japanese telco as a compensation for exiting the joint venture, Tata Teleservices.
  
  Spokespersons from both sides declined to comment on specifics of the negotiations.
  
  
  “The joint approach is indeed the outcome of consultations. As we have already said on February 28, the agreement is in the larger national interest of preserving a fair investment environment in India, and in accordance with the Tata group’s long-standing record of adherence to contractual commitments,” a Tata spokesperson told ET.
  
  Shifting from the stand taken by the former Tata Sons chairman Cyrus Mistry that any pay out involving a pre-fixed pricing arrangement was in violation of India’s forex laws, Tatas decided to withdraw its earlier objections to the enforcement of the London arbitration award which had ordered Tatas to pay up, here in India.
  
  “The agreement is a significant step towards resolution of this dispute,” NTT Docomo said in their statement that even mentioned Tata’s efforts.
  
  
 
  “Everything changed with the new administration,” said another official close to Docomo. After this point Docomo also stopped worrying about political and regulatory pressure. “It was really a difference of the direction being given by the leader because pretty much everyone else handling the matter at the moment remains the same,” another official added.
  
  Even if Tata, said sources close to him, wanted an honourable solution, he wanted Mistry to steer the conversation. Back in September, he told Yoshizawa that being no longer directly or indirectly involved with the business activities, he needed to update himself “so as not to cross wires.”
  
  A month earlier, when Docomo sought to attach Tatas JLR and Tata Steel Europe’s assets to recover pending dues, he himself took Mistry to meet the Japanese ambassador Kenji Hiramatsu in Mumbai to seek diplomatic intervention and reinitiate a conversation.
  
  That helped as days later Mistry and other Tata Sons representatives did meet Toshika Nakamura, Senior Vice President of NTT Docomo along with other officials in Singapore – a first since the Japanese side went to arbitration in January 2015 – to build a framework to continue discussions.
  
  But assurances aside, the stalemate persisted.
  
  Sources close to Docomo reiterate that nerves really soothed when Tata himself wrote to a mail to Yoshizawa on October 27th, exactly three days after taking charge to clear any misgivings, reassuring him that a way out was topmost in his agenda. He even suggested approaching the Indian government jointly to “re-establish faith and trust.”
  
  In the past, the Japanese had repeatedly requested for such joint representations only to be rebuffed by, what they claimed, “half baked, unilateral” Tata responses. When the RBI rejected the honouring of the award claims, Docomo blamed its Indian partner for wrongly wording its case to regulator. The Tata group had responded with an equally strongly worded statement suggesting it would continue to fight the enforcement as long as it contradicted the Indian policy.
  
  “Since October there have been meetings at the highest political and diplomatic levels at both countries to seek their blessings.   had distracted our bureaucrats and RBI officials in November but those discussions again picked momentum in the New Year,” said an official in the know.
  
  Since the two groups had decided to sit on the same side of the table, compromises were also easier to make. As Docomo had earlier offered Tata agreed that as long as proceedings to seize the group’s assets in the US and UK were deferred it would make joint representation in Indian courts to honour the award. Earlier Tatas had said it wouldn’t do so without complete withdrawal of the proceedings overseas. “Why would we close that (international enforcement) option out without proof that the other side is playing ball?” quipped a   source close to the Japanese side.
  
  
 
  Conscious of the sensitivities involved Tata trusted Hussain more than anyone to lead the negotiations along with him, said Tata Group officials. They were backed by Farokh Subedar, Tata Sons COO, Bharat Vasani, Group General Counsel and Srinath Narasimhan, Managing Director of Tata Teleservices on operational matters. The last three were common from Mistry’s A team. “Like Tata, Hussain was deeply involved in the original negotiations of 2009 and the only common link. There was a feeling that the matter was stuck due to overzealous lawyers from both sides. The two principals decided to end that by taking matters into their own hands,” said an old Tata official.
  
  Hussain personally was spearheading the minuties to translate the bigger objectives into an actionable and executionable plan through calls and emails. As recently as January 24th, he wrote an emergency mail to Nakayama when media reports quoting Mistry’s NCLT filings said Tata himself had suggested suing Docomo for defamation for tarnishing the Tata Group corporate image. Clarifying that those statements were “wholly inaccurate and out of context,” Hussain wrote that this was purportedly based on so called minutes of a meeting held in July 30th 2016, but in reality those minutes did not even reach him.
  
  Both sides had toyed with several proposals before zeroing in on one.
  
  It was initially suggested that the Tatas would pay the liabilities based on the fair market value of TTSL shares at Rs 23.34/share and settle in rupees which would then be reinvested by Docomo in India in other projects ensuring that foreign exchange does not leave Indian shores. But Docomo would reserve the freedom of the usage of money remaining within India without any restrictions and would receive a guarantee that it would be able to remit to Japan after a certain period of time. Docomo also did not want the Tatas to mention specific intended usage in any of its communications with the government authorities and would secure government approvals. Alternatively, the entire sum would be deposited in an international bank. Against the rupee collateral the bank in turn would pay Docomo an equivalent dollar amount in another country.
  
  Meanwhile, increasing acceptance of international arbitration awards in India and the recent orders passed by Judge S Muralidhar who is also chairing the Tata Docomo matter gave both sides enough confidence to decide a common representation as their best option of resolution. Given the funds are already vested with the courts, any direction to its disbursement given by the judge would be above any intervention from the RBI.
  
  RBI can also approve an exemption as the pay out to Docomo isn’t a return on an investment but a  . NTT Docomo will not make profits on the initial investment. It cannot be equated with other equity transactions in which sale prices are pre-fixed to assure returns. The London arbitration court had ruled that Docomo’s investments were not debt masquerading as equity.
  
  Tata Teleservices Ltd (TTSL) can also be recapitalised. According to people aware of the matter, Tata Sons, through a board resolution last September, had already cleared a proposal to infuse Rs 10,000 crore into TTSL. That investment could boost the   or face value of the company. Following such a recapitalisation exercise, a fresh valuation of the company is likely to be made and the Japanese partner would get paid for its 26% stake based on that.
  
  In the end Tata Sons board was relieved when the joint strategy was discussed on February 21st, the same one which saw Chandrasekaran take over. By then Tata had even briefed Chandra.
  
  With a smooth transition being smooth, everyone was eager to move ahead.
  
