CHANDIGARH: Observing there was "overwhelming evidence" against Gurugram's former   (CJM) Ravneet Garg and his parents in the dowry death case of his wife Geetanjali, the   on Monday rejected his bail plea.

 Denying bail to the suspended judge, the HC ordered the trial court "to frame charges against the accused within a month and conclude recording of evidence in six months."
 
 Observing that Ravneet's release may lead to tampering of case evidence, Justice A B Chaudhari observed it could be done in a number of ways, including tendering an apology, touching the feet of the witnesses, and so on and so forth. "This is usually done in such type of cases since the witnesses are mostly relatives and close friends. It is, therefore, risky to release the petitioner on regular bail. The only option, in my opinion, is to expedite the trial," observed Justice Chaudhari.
 
 Seeking bail, Ravneet had argued that Haryana Police had not found his role in the crime during the course of investigations. The brother and parents of Geetanjali did not make any grievance at any point of time about the demand of dowry, as alleged, nor any complaint was filed during the period of over five years of marriage with any police station or any relative, Ravneet argued.
 
 Apposing his plea, CBI argued that the petitioner's father was a retired district judge and the presiding officer of a tribunal at present. It said the petitioner was a civil judge in the subordinate judiciary. The CBI also submitted that all accused were influential and fair trial would be affected if he was released on bail. After hearing the arguments, Justice Chaudhari observed, "I have gone through all statements. I find there is overwhelming evidence against the petitioner and his parents for commission of offence".
 
 Ravneet was arrested by the CBI in September 2016, after almost three years of the incident. He was arrested on the basis of report of his polygraph test conducted in 2014. He was posted as Gurugram CJM in July 2013, when his wife was found dead with bullet injuries in the city's Police Lines area.
 
 In the charge sheet filed by CBI on December 9, 2016, Ravneet and his parents were charged with causing the death for dowry. CBI has been probing the case since August 8, 2013, when it had taken over the case, which was earlier registered by Gurgaon police under sections 302 (murder) and 34 (common intent) of the IPC and the Arms Act.
 
