Running a marathon has now become a fitness trend. But one needs to be aware of the impending risk of heart ailments [cardiovascular diseases (CVD)] that excessive exercise like marathon might trigger. People might get their medical test right before entering a marathon. But not all are aware about the threat of masked   that can trigger a series of cardiovascular changes during excessive exercise. 

 Increasing number of people are becoming fitness freaks. Running a marathon is a trend that people are picking up fast to achieve the “Be fit” goal. But one cannot overlook the risk of   that at times comes as a free package with excessive exercise forms such as marathon. People who bear a high risk of CVD due to marathon must be identified. Identifying marathoners with masked hypertension might aid this identification process. 
 
 
 Masked hypertension is a condition where the blood pressure recordings for a patient are in a normal range when in clinic. Yet, such patients have elevated BP while doing simple day-to-day activities. Needless to mention such patients might land up being victims of heart disease and marathon might just aggravate their condition predisposing them to cardiovascular diseases much earlier. A study published in the journal 
  investigated if exercise characteristics could be used as a novel indicator of masked hypertension. 
 
 Five hundred and seventy one middle-aged recreational male marathoners were categorized into   (HBPG) or a normal blood pressure group (NBPG). The HBPG participants had a significantly higher systolic as well as diastolic BP as compared to the NBPG participants. Hemodynamic response, cardiac events, and the personal exercise characteristics for all study participants were recorded using a graded exercise test. 
 
 The high blood pressure group participants had a significantly longer and higher marathon history, exercise intensity, and shorter marathon completion duration as compared to the NBPG participants (
  < 0.05, all). 
 
 Hypertensive individuals exhibit excessive exercise characteristics than individuals with normal BP. So amongst individuals who have high BP during rest as well as exercise, the exercise characteristics could serve as a novel indicator for detecting masked hypertension.
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
