MADURAI: Union minister of   and earth sciences, Dr   said that science and technology should address concerns of the common man and alleviate sufferings of the marginalised. He was speaking at an event organised in CSIR’s Central Electro Chemical Research Institute, Karaikudi in Sivaganga district on Saturday. 

 The visionaries of the country had established several laboratories and research institutes after Independence. He also spoke about the charity of philanthropist   who contributed 300 acres of land and Rs50lakh then to construct the research institute. “The memory of these great people should inspire us to do great things in life,” he said. 
 
 In those initial days, Indian scientists and researchers did not have adequate infrastructure. But today, labs are well-equipped with sophisticated technologies. Using these facilities, science and technology should make an impact on the common man, he said.
 
 He touched on the efforts of the ministry of earth sciences to send SMS to farmers. Around 20 million farmers receive these short messages from ministry about weather forecast and plan their cultivation accordingly. “We have to refocus and redirect out attention to improve the lives of the marginalised,” he said. The present government is keen on supporting these ventures and Prime Minister Modi has a great vision to promote these kinds of ideas and innovations which impact the masses, he added.
 
 After the event, he inaugurated a 3 D metal printing lab, a unique facility developed by CECRI, which will be useful to print diverse sets of sub-components like medical implants and bipolar plates for fuel cells. Speaking to the media, Harsh Vardhan said that India’s science and technology infrastructure is not inferior to any country in the world. The country collaborates with 80 nations in science and technology and 40 of them are major collaborations with developed countries like US, Canada, Japan, South Korea and Israel. “We are on a par with these countries,” he said. 
 
 The minister also visited   and interacted with incubate companies intending to initiate start-ups with CSIR – CECRI’s technologies. 
 
