MOHALI: The theory of Mohali police regarding smuggling of 160 kg gold has fallen flat as officials at Hamirpur's AJ Gold and   has told the police that the gold belonged to the refinery. However, with this names of three owners of   have also been included in the FIR. 

 The arrested accused, namely Rakesh Kumar, Vijay Kumar and Surjit Singh, all residents of Hamirpur, have been sent to five-day police remand.
 
 Mohali senior superintendent of police   said, "The arrested accused are employees of AJ Refinery at Hamirpur. They were arrested as they were carrying the gold and did not have any documents related to it. They also didn't reveal anything about the gold at the barrier on Punjab-Haryana border," the SSP said, adding that the accused raised more suspicion as the registration number of the vehicle in documents was different from the number plate.
 
 Chahal added that when the three accused were stopped at the naka and asked about the contents in the bags, they were not able to give a satisfactory reply. They did not claim that the bags contained gold. 
 
 Senior officials of the income tax department and local excise and taxation officials are also investigating the matter. 
 
 The SSP said, "The accused came from Delhi but it is not sure whether they were coming international airport or other place and the gold transported was imported from South Africa or Ghana as claimed by the accused. They don't have relevant documents regarding gold or any bill or custom documents." 
 
 He added, "The crucial things is the mode of payment and how they did it. Whether it was to hide defunct currency or there is any other issue is yet to be found,"
 
 The accused have also been interrogated by officials of the I-T and excise departments. A case under sections 420 and 120-B of the IPC has been registered against them at Sohana police station.
 
 On Tuesday, three men from Himachal Pradesh were arrested for allegedly smuggling 160kg raw gold near   village of Mohali.
 
 DSP city   and Sohana SHO Pawan Kumar deployed at a check point near Bankarpur village had stopped a white-coloured Hyundai Creta which had halted thrice as it approached the naka.
 
 On checking the vehicle, they saw many bags on the rear seat of the car, which, the men in the vehicle claimed were their luggage and some construction material.
 
 Police found bags filled with raw gold.
 
 The accused were apprehended as they were unable to produce any valid license or bills for gold purchase.
 
 About 90 kg of gold can be extracted from the recovered material and its estimated value is around Rs 21-25 crore.
 
 Accused were coming from Delhi and were shipping gold to Hamirpur.
 
 The Mohali SSP on Tuesday evening had told media that, "The accused were smuggling the gold for something big. More people are involved in the case. We are verifying the background and details provided by the accused."
 
 Another car had transported same amount of gold earlier also without paying any tax and the police is looking for CCTV footage to find people involved.
 
