MYSURU: These things can happen only in our  . A city resident had applied for a site in the city on June 1, 1988. But her family is expected to receive the site nearly 29 years after the submission of the application, that too after the intervention of the city consumer court. What makes this story heart touching is that the woman applicant who had applied for the site is no more to see the site she had applied.

 On June 1, 1988, JK Nagaveni, a teacher by profession had applied for a site with then   (CITB), the urban body engaged in allotment of sites. When Mysore Urban Development Authority (MUDA) was formed in the year 1990, she renewed her application. Though the allotments were made to the various other beneficiaries, JK Nagaveni could not get the site on the seniority basis. Subsequently, on February 25, 2001, MUDA allotted her a site bearing no 1595, situated at Hanchy and Sathagally B Zone. But she couldn't able to get the possession of the site as MUDA didn't send her intimation letter to make the payments and register the site in her name. Surprisingly, Nagaveni didn't inform about this issue to any of her relatives including children. On the other hand, MUDA allocates the same site to others.
 
 But the whole issue takes an interesting turn after 26 years. J K Nagaveni passes away on December 20, 2008. As she didn't inform about this site issue to her two children the whole issue gets buried. But in March 2014, when her two children J K Sheshagiri Rao and J K Sushma, both residents of Ramakrishnanagar of the city were checking the old trunks, they found the site allotment letter in one of the trunks. When they approached the MUDA seeking the details about this site which they never saw, they come to know that allotment made to JK Nagaveni was cancelled as she didn't pay the required amount.
 
 Sheshagiri Rao and JK Sushma who suspected some kind of foul play in the whole episode files an RTI application with MUDA seeking details about the site. For their surprise, they found that their mother could not able to pay the required amount as MUDA had sent the intimation letter to wrong address and postal department returned the letter stating addressee not found. Immediately they requested the MUDA to rectify their mistake by granting an alternative site. But MUDA officers declined to allot an alternative site.
 
 Upset by this decision, Sheshagiri Rao and Sushma moves to city consumer redressal forum seeking justice. Now consumer forum has directed the MUDA to allot an alternative site with in 60 days failing which MUDA has to pay Rs.100 as compensation per day. It also directed the MUDA to pay Rs.25,000 as the compensation for deficiency in the service.
 
 When contacted   M Mahesh informed that authority will look into the issue and forum order.
 
