BENGALURU: Friday's strike that halted   and hit thousands of commuters has exposed  's inability to act quickly during crises. It has also pointed to gaps in BMRC's grievance redressal system and its alleged apathy towards employees.

 The scuffle between a Karnataka State Industrial Security Force (KSISF) constable and a  , which led to a protest and subsequent assault of KSISF personnel on Thursday -only a trigger for Friday's stir -was largely a result of built-up frustration among staffers.
 
 
 
 While the management says all matters will be resolved internally, employees claim the former has been consistently ignoring their concerns and “is even the cause for several of them.“ “Over 30 complaints against the KSISF have not been addressed. There are several other concerns the management has failed to look into over one and a half years,“ said a BMRC employee and officebearer of its union.
 
 From lack of drinking water facilities at some Metro stations to missing attendance capturing systems, a host of grievances have not been redressed, say staffers.Suryanarayana Murthy, vicepresident, BMRC employees' union said: “We took up the matter with the labour commissioner, who first suggested that it be resolved through an arbitration process. With the management not agreeing, the matter is now before a tribunal, which will soon begin hearing it.“
 
 He said women employees of BMRC -all of whom do the night shift from 9.30pm to 6.30am -don't have access to creche facilities. They are also deprived of night shift allowances or other allowances that must be paid to them as per the rules.
 
 
 
 
 “Attendance is another major concer n. Before the last stretch of Phase I was launched, there were 32 biometric log-in machines, one at each station, but in the last one year or so, the number has come down to eight. Now employees of all these 32 stations must mark attendance at only eight stations, which is causing a lot of inconvenience.Even if a worker has reached well within his shift timing and is delayed in marking the attendance because of a long queue, he loses salary for half a day,“ Murthy rued.
 
 Employees say they have no access to food or transport during night shifts. “Earlier, the management procured water in canters but the practice was discontinued after purifiers were introduced.But most of the purifiers are defunct and we have no water,“ the office-bearer said.
 
 Murthy also complained of working hours being imposed in violation of rules and the management refusing to adhere to Standing Orders -it has sought exemption from the state government. It has also refused to recognize the employees' union, he said.
 
 “They say BMRC has no workmen (based on the salaries paid) and that all of them are officers. However, a Supreme Court order says unless an employee has the power to grant or deny leave, transfer staff or take disciplinary action, he is not an officer. Also, all train operators are workmen. The management is clearly not interested in employee welfare,“ Murthy said.
 
 
 
 
 It's unfortunate that Metro staffers had to boycott work to voice their disgruntlement. Had the management lent them a patient ear and redressed their problems much earlier, it would have saved commuters both time and unforeseen misery. However, protesters too cannot be absolved of blame as thousands of Bengalureans, for whom Namma Metro is a lifeline, were hit by the disruption.Though BMRC claims to have arrived at a truce with the staffers, a lot more needs to be done. Employees are the backbone of any organization and deserve to get their due. The incident should serve as a lesson for the corporation, which needs to be better prepared to tackle such situations.
 
