NEW DELHI: Two days after four touts were arrested in connection with a  , police rescued two men from Bihar, who were lured to sell their organs for Rs 4 lakh each, in south Delhi on Saturday. 

  prepared for the transplant process were seized from them. Cops suspect that the kingpin of the racket is from Hyderabad. 
 
 Meanwhile, two doctors from the south Delhi hospital, where the kidney racket was busted, were questioned by the crime branch. 
 
 Interrogation of Rahul Sahoo and three other touts revealed that they had donated their organs, after which they were inducted into the gang to bring in fresh customers.
 
 “A team led by DCP Madhur Verma and ACP Sanjay Sehrawat are trying to track the entire racket, which has been operating from different cities. Some documents seized from the accused are being scanned to get further leads,” said Praveer Ranjan, joint commissioner, crime. 
 
 Sahoo claimed that he was lured into selling his kidney by a person from Hyderabad three years ago while he was working in a hospital. He, in turn, had convinced five more people to “donate” their kidneys. Each receiver would have to pay Rs 35-40 lakh. The donor would be paid 10% of the amount while the rest would be distributed among touts and staff members of the hospital, who would facilitate the operations.
 
 Sahoo claimed that donors would also be taken to hospitals in Sri Lanka under different names. In 2015, the laws governing organ donation were made more stringent and their business was shifted to Delhi, Mumbai and Kolkata. 
 
 Police said that two donors rescued on Saturday— Shehzad and Rajender— had approached Sahoo’s agents, seeking to earn fast bucks. He had helped them prepare forged documents and was waiting for a date for transplant. Police are, however, yet to question any of the receivers. 
 
 Sahoo disclosed that one of his agents had travelled to Iran with a donor recently, a claim which is being verified by cops.
 
 Meanwhile, the documents submitted in the names of the donors have been seized from the hospital on Friday to trace the receivers. 
 
 Police teams have been sent to Kolkata and Hyderabad for more leads. 
 
