KOCHI: Scaling the   or splashing through the drive-in beaches on a   would no longer be a luxury that only the elite can afford. 

 The dream bikes will be made available at cheap rates for traversing the extreme topographies of Kerala through Caferides, a motorbike tourism initiative in Kochi authorized by the   department.
 
 "There are all kinds of terrains in Kerala which lays a perfect scenario for the flourishing of motorbike tourism. The initiative is going set a precedent," said U V Jose, director, Kerala Tourism.
 
 Initially, the high-end motorbike rental service, whose first showroom is launched at Padivattom in the city, will provide Harley Davidson and Royal Enfield bikes with along with safety gears on hourly charges for local as well as foreign tourists.
 
 "Premium helmets, full protection jackets and gloves are among the safety gears that the service will provide. Another highlight of the service is the action camera that we provide which will help bikers to film their adventurous rides," said Alok Nath, co-owner of Caferides.
 
 However, he added that the rented bikes cannot be taken for rash-driving or testing its power as would be assumed by many.
 
 "There are GPS and speed monitoring systems installed in the bikes that are given for rent which will send us an alert message if the renter crosses 80km/hour speed. We'll then issue warnings to customers. If more than 3 alerts are received, a fine will be deducted from the Rs 5,000 we collect as a security deposit while renting out the bikes," Alok said.
 
 RTO Sadiq Ali said as long as riders maintain decorum on road and use the bikes sensibly, there would be no issues. Additionally, only license holders above the age of 21 will be eligible to rent the bikes. "A rally of 150-200 bikes will be flagged off next month to give motorbike tourism, the first-of-its-kind in the state, an official launch. As soon as the first branch in Kochi gets into the groove, we are planning to set up outlets at Varkala near Thiruvananthapuram and at Kozhikode," Alok added.
 
