
 
  With a vibrant bird population, rows of palm trees, a varied landscape and a football ground of international standards, Nagoa, in  , has much to offer a visitor. Admeasuring 518 hectares, Nagoa is surrounded by the villages of Cansaulim, Verna and Cortalim, and houses a population of 3,783 persons, of which, 2,387 are voters.
 
  According to some, this village derives its name from the  , worshippers of Lord Shiva and Mahamaya, who resided in this land a thousand years ago. Archaeological records also suggest that a  , along with a satellite group of temples, existed here centuries ago.
 
  “Culturally rich, Nagoa has been home to achievers who are highly-educated and successful in their respective fields. Its residents have, till date, lived like a family. The people enjoy a very good bond, both with the church and with the temple,” says Laxman Revonkar, resident of Pirni and retired teacher of Our Lady of Succour High School.
 
  Nagoa was initially grouped with the Verna panchayat when the panchayat system was introduced in Goa in 1963. It got its own village panchayat on November 19, 1997.
 
  The wards of Nagoa include Castel, Pirni, Santbolem/Jina, Sonarvaddo, Mazilvaddo, Pimpalvaddo 1 and Pimpalvaddo 2.
  The village is home to the 1963-established Pax of Nagoa Sports Club, which has been promoting young footballers of the village in the age groups of 14 and 16.
 
  Nagoa’s football ground hosts inter-village matches, Goa Football Association activities, while top football teams such as FC Goa and Salgaocar FC also practice on the ground.
  
  
 
  The comunidade system was very well developed in Nagoa. Land was allotted according to the skills of the people. Much of the land for Verna industrial estate and the entire area of the railway station actually belongs to Nagoa
  John Phillip Pereira | resident
  
  Due to the efforts by, both, past and present leaders, the village is self-sufficient and has all up-to-date amenities such as a library, gymnasium, home for the aged, senior citizens club, football ground, etc.
  Jackson Gonsalves | resident
  
  
  
  
 
  The migrant population has put tremendous strain on Nagoa’s infrastructure, especially on the health and security front. Dengue deaths have occurred in Mount Mary colony, an area where migrants are residing in. They have been a cause of concern on the law and order front, because crimes have taken place in the village.
  Franky Vales | sarpanch
  
  
  
 was Regedor (village head) during the Portuguese era
  
  
 was attorney general of Goa and chief justice of the Goa high court during the Portuguese era
  
  
 was a freedom fighter, speaker of the Goa legislative assembly (1979-1984), advocate, writer and poet
  
  
 was general physician, poet and writer. His name appears in the ecyclopedia of Brazil, Luso Brasileira
  
  
 was a Portuguese primary school teacher in the 1950s
  
  
 was a retired postmaster and also served as an attorney for two decades in the Nagoa Comunidade
  
  
 was a tiatrist
  
  
 was founder-owner of Royal Foods
  
  
 was an industrialist. He was also owner of a football club
  
  
 is a noted academician at Pilar Society
  
  
 is an air force officer and former principal of Government Multipurpose School, Borda-Margao
  
  
 is a retired footballer and national-level scrabble champion in 2012
  
  
 was a defender who played for India (1989) and also donned colours for Salgaocar SC, Dempo SC, Vasco SC, etc
  
  
 is a noted dentist
  
  
 is an English writer
  
  
  
  
 
  Villagers were served by the Nossa Senhora de Socorro e Bom Sucesso chapel till 1973, after which, it was elevated to a parish church
  
  
 
  Situated at Mazilvaddo, it is over 450-years-old and is part of the Solar Machado house, which is among the few houses in Goa that had stables for horses.
  
  
 
  A few metres away from the Shree Naguesh Mahamaya Sansthan, is a heritage pillar. It is believed to be either a part of the Mahalaxmi temple or another ancient temple.
  
  
 
  This temple, dedicated to Ishwar (Nagesh Mahamaya) - Lord Shiva, took 15 years to build and was inaugurated on May 16, 2014.
  
  
 
  This building, situated at Mazilvaddo, has been the centre for the functioning of Nagoa’s land ownership rights. The building also served as a government primary school before 1961 and for a few years after it.
  
  
 
  The school completed its golden jubilee in 2015. Villagers remember the invaluable contribution of late Fr Bruno Diniz, founder and its principal from 1965 to 1994.
  
  
 
  This 200-year-old ancestral house at Mazilvaddo belongs to the  . Since 1962, it is being run by the Sisters of St Joseph of
  Cluny and provides shelter to 66 aged persons.
  
  
 
  This 300-year-old ancestral house is among the elegant homes of Nagoa. Other noted ones include the da Gama house, Solar Machado house, etc.
  
