NAGPUR: After incessant rains in the last seven days, potholes have cropped up on many major and also internal roads posing threat to citizens. So much so that one in every three tar roads in the city is in bad condition.

 Unfortunately, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) and the state public works department (PWD) are yet to begin survey for identifying potholes. The only silver lining is that the civic body has roped in Road Jetpatcher machine for repairing bad surface layer on the roads since the last few days.
 
 The condition of roads that were proposed to be converted into concrete cement roads is the worst. Cases in point are Ring Road,   road, Ajni railway station road, North Ambazari Road etc. The roads witnessing works due to Metro rail, Pardi flyover etc too are in a bad shape.
 
 The state PWD has started concrete cement road work between Chhatrapati square and Hingna T-point. The remaining part of the road from Narendra Nagar to Dighori to Gomti Hotel to Jaripatka is full of potholes.
 
 Driving on the inner ring road stretch between Gomti Hotel square and Kalamna APMC market is testing skills of the motorists. “Due to construction of a flyover, the complete patch on either sides of the road has turned into a death trap,” said motorists. Paramjeet Singh Kalsi, a resident of east Nagpur and a transporter, has approached Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari and NHAI’s head office in Delhi about this patch full of crators.
 
 The PWD has no plans to repair the potholes on the stretch where work is not going on. The work will take some more time.
 
 Corporator Kamlesh Chaudhary said all the major roads, even in Civil Lines, are in a bad condition. “The condition is so severe that the surface layer of the road between Ambazari garden and University Campus square is invisible in some parts. The stretch between Futala lake and Japanese garden, Gittikhadan-Katol Road, Sadar police station-VCA stadium etc are in very bad condition. All these roads come under the NMC and nothing is being done to repair potholes. The NMC should engage teams to identify potholes and repair it on daily basis,” he said.
 
 Corporator Abha Pande said the condition of internal roads too is worst. “The roads in residential areas like Khairipura, Lalganj, Maskasath and some others in Central and East Nagpur have not been repaired for years now. No attention is paid to the complaints lodged by us. Citizens throng our office daily expecting much from us. But we are feeling helpless due to the NMC’s negligence towards the crucial issue,” she said.
 
 Even squares like Manas chowk where thousands of people pass everyday are not an exception. Big potholes have developed on the square for the last one month, but no one is paying attention.
 
 NCP corporator Duneshwar Pethe expressed concern over pothole-ridden roads in east Nagpur. According to him, the internal roads in Deshpande Layout, Hiwri Nagar, LIG Colony, Shastri Nagar, Kumbhar Toli and Garoba Maidan have developed craters. Accidents have become a routine due to poorly maintained roads, he claimed.
 
 Besides, complaints also poured in from residents about pothole-ridden roads. To name a few, WHC roadm especially in front of the CP office, Kushi Nagar, Baba  ,  , Vaishali Nagar, the patch beween Patankar Chowk and rural police headquarters, Samta Nagar to Ekta Nagar stretch, Dhamma Jyoti Nagar, Sonawane Layout, Nari Telephone exchange road and Bank Colony are full of potholes.
 
 An NMC official told TOI that the survey will be done in August after more rains, and repairing works from September. “We have started repairing some roads with Road Jetpatcher,” he said.
 
 The NMC had proposed to launch a free helpline to receive complaints five years ago, but it never became operational.
 
