AURANGABAD: The   (EOW) of the city police registered a case against 84 customers for misusing   (UPI) mobile application and   of Rs 6.7 crore. 

 These suspects had made multiple transactions from the accounts of   and duped other customers. An offence was been registered after the EOW carried out a discreet probe.
 
 Authorities said the bank and customers, who committed the mischief, were given a chance to sort out the issue amicably. But, since they could not resolve the issue, the city police have gone ahead and registered an offence.
 
 A senior police officer said the bank has filed a case against 84 customers, having accounts with its different branches. Deputy zonal manager, Bank of Maharashtra, Ravindra Dattatraya Sonje formally lodged a complaint with the MIDC Cidco police station against 84 people, accusing them of misusing the UPI application from the mobile phones of their friends — customers of different branches of the bank — and usurping Rs 6.7 crore from their accounts between November 30, 2016 and March 11, 2017.
 
 The EOW along with the cybercrime branch of the city police conducted an inquiry into the matter and found that more than 1,000 customers of the bank were duped to the tune Rs 9.5 crore during the last few months.
 
 Commissioner of police Amitesh Kumar told reporters that 1,214 customers lost a total of Rs 9.44 crore. While 797 victims were from the city, others were from different parts of the district. 
 
 “Police have sought a record of every transaction made by the victims and suspects from the bank. The suspects borrowed mobile phones from the victims in some cases and SIM cards in other cases, which were registered with the bank, and applied for loans up to Rs 1 lakh. Once the amount was disbursed and credited to their saving accounts, the suspects immediately transferred the amount to their account using the mobile application. The victims include students, public servants, private employees and well-educated persons having working knowledge of technology,” said the top cop.
 
 Kumar said that many suspects have already been traced. “They (suspects) were summoned to my office last week. I told them to return the money to the account holder, and failing to abide will result in criminal charges. Several suspects have already returned the money to the victims,” he said.
 
