GHAZIABAD: A gang of men allegedly took away an SUV from a used car outlet in   on Sunday after taking an employee hostage at gunpoint. The crime took place around 10.30am on the CISF-Vasundhara main Road in Indirapuram. However, the outlet employees and the police had different versions of the event.

 According to the employees of  , from where the SUV was stolen, a group of five men arrived in a white-coloured Swift Dzire around 10am and fled with a Mahindra Scorpio after threatening an office boy at gunpoint. However, according to police, the prospective customers duped the office boys by taking the SUV on a   and fled.
 
 Only two office boys were present in the outlet at the time of the crime. The men demanded to be shown a Scorpio SUV which they wanted to purchase. The outlet keeps all its vehicles in the basement parking lot of Jaipuria Mall, located across the road, every night. One of the office boys, Akbar (18), asked the men to be seated in the outlet’s lobby and fetched a black-colored Scorpio from the mall’s parking lot. Another office boy, Yamul, stayed back with the visitors in the lobby.
 
 “When I returned with the SUV, the men demanded to take a test drive. Three men entered the Scorpio, which I had parked on the edge of the main road, just in front of our outlet. I said I would accompany them for the test drive. Two of the men sat in the front, while I sat behind with another,” Akbar, one of the office boys, told TOI.
 
 Akbar said the person in the driver’s seat and the one next to him pulled out guns before starting the vehicle. The men allegedly asked Akbar to get down, but he refused. He called up his employer Naresh, instead, on his mobile phone.“Akbar told me the men were trying to take away the SUV. He handed over the phone to one of the men. The man told me, ‘Gaadi lekar jaa rahey hain, bas!’ The call was disconnected after that,”   said.
 
 According to Akbar,The men allegedly made Akbar deboard and fled in the direction of NH-24, which is barely 500m away from the outlet.
 
 Meanwhile, the remaining two men allegedly managed to evade the other office boy, and fled in the Dzire in which they had arrived towards NH-24 as well.
 
 On the basis of a complaint filed by Naresh, an FIR was registered against unidentified persons under Section 406 (breach of trust) IPC at Indirapuram police station.
 
 “Investigations have revealed that there were four men in all who had arrived at the outlet. The men went on a test drive. When they did not return after one hour, the boys informed their employer. They cooked up the story to save their skin from their employer. We have registered a case. CCTV footages of the area will be examined to determine the exact sequence of events,” said Indirapuram SHO Sunil Kumar Dubey.
 
