KOLKATA: For the past couple of weeks, Tamils in the city have not been their usual self. They seemed absent-minded, hesitant and unsure. All that changed on Tuesday morning when their fervent prayers were answered. VK Sasikala’s attempt to ‘usurp Tamil pride’ had been rebuffed. 

 “We Tamils have always been proud of our identity and wear it on our sleeves. That changed with Sasikala’s attempt to grab power, chief minister O Panneerselvam’s meek abdication followed by belated rebellion and then Sasikala confining all MLAs in a resort to prevent a switchover to the OPS camp. The drama being played out has been so despicable that I have at times wished I didn’t belong to  . Thankfully, the Supreme Court restored our pride,” said GV  , unable to hide his relief over Sasikala’s indictment and 10-year political exile.
 
 Usually reticent about their political identity, the city’s Tamils openly celebrated the apex court verdict and heaped scorn on someone who was on the cusp of being anointed the CM. “It does not matter if one is an AIADMK or a DMK supporter. Everyone, other than a handful of MLAs over whom she wields control, is happy she won’t be in power,” said Calcutta South India Club functionary  .
 
 While there is unequivocal relief in the community, there is apprehension over what will happen next as Sasikala had not been taken into custody yet. “You can’t ever trust her. She had successfully got herself perched at J Jayalalithaa’s Poes Garden residence and controlled her not only in life but even in death,” said Subramaniam.
 
 As suspension over the Tamil Nadu CM’s post continues, Tamils here have no doubt that Sasikala’s attempt to rule the state through remote control will be foiled as her grip over MLAs loses strength once she is behind bars. Radhakrishnan believes Tamils have had a close shave. Had Sasikala become CM, he thinks she would have entrenched herself. Jayalalithaa, too, wasn’t very popular at the time she came to power by dislodging Janaki Ramachandran. 
 
 “If Jayalalithaa had managed to turn the tide in her favour, Sasikala would have been as well. Tamils here feel lucky that her overarching ambition has finally been nipped,” he said when a plan was still being hatched at a five-star resort where Sasikala remained huddled with the 100-plus legislators till late on Tuesday despite the SC order to surrender immediately.
 
 
