NEW DELHI: The spate of decisions of the   has triggered worries among   (IRS) officers under the   (CBEC), who feel their relevance will diminish once the ambitious tax reform measure is implemented later this year.

 IRS officers under CBEC have been protesting against decisions of the GST council. They have also expressed concern over the Goods &   Network (GSTN), the entity set up to handle the IT systems of GST. The IRS officers say this function should be handed over to the CBEC which has the expertise to handle the mammoth data and maintain its secrecy.
 
 “There is a myth and misconception that we are against GST,” said SK Sinha, vice-president of IRS officers’ association. He detailed the work done by the IRS cadre to ensure smooth implementation of GST. Sinha said there should be a distinction between the central cadre who come to the service through the UPSC system and those in state services. There is also a view among CBEC officers that issues linked to GST should not be handed over only to “generalists” and those with specialist knowledge should be persisted with. 
 
 In an unusual move, CBEC chairman Najib Shah raised the issue of discontent in the IRS cadre with finance minister   at the Customs Day function on Friday evening.
 
 “Sir, I would be failing in my duty if I did not make a mention of some degree of disquiet in the service about the decision taken in the GST. There are fears about the role of the service having been reduced. These fears have been accentuated because of the pending HR issues. While the board is seeking to redress these concerns we would seek your indulgence sir for resolution,” Shah said in his speech.
 
 Jaitley responded swiftly to Shah’s concerns and assured the taxmen that they had nothing to worry and implementation of GST will usher in several new opportunities.
 
 “The kind of disquiet in the service and the kind of personal pressure I see on you should itself reduce as there is no real occasion for fear or this kind of sense of insecurity for anyone in the service. That opportunities that are available to people in service as a matter of policy, as a matter of constitutional guarantee, are all protected, except that the nature of activity will itself have to change,” the finance minister said.
 
 “And I can only assure you that there is no reason for disquiet. You should go and have a comfortable sleep tonight,” Jaitley said while assuring the tax officials.
 
 IRS officers defended Shah’s action saying he was articulating the views of the department. “The chairman flagged the issue of discontent. Why not,” Sinha said, adding that the association is likely to approach the finance minister to articulate their concerns after the budget is presented on February 1.
 
 
