LUCKNOW: Two days after Aditya Nath Yogi and his 46 ministers assumed charge, the “Anti Romeo Squads” – the much talked-abut promise in the party’s poll manifesto swung into action across the  . From Gorakhpur to Ghaziabad and Lucknow to Lalitpur, squads drawn from the city   fanned out to check markets, malls,  ,  , coaching centres and other spots to check incidents of eve-teasing.

 In Lucknow, two youths were arrested when they failed to explain the reason for their presence in front of a girls’ school. Besides, five people were detained and over 900 spots were checked in the city.DGP Javeed Ahmed said instructions have been issued to chalk out a specific dedicated drill to “reclaim” public places from hooligans and anti-social elements and generate a feeling of security among the people in general and women in particular. “Police and administrative authorities have been asked to ensure that ruffians don’t go unchecked,” Ahmed said.
 
  “The police chiefs of all 11   under the Lucknow zone have been directed to constitute squads to be deployed at vulnerable points,” said IG, Lukcnow Zone, A Satish Ganesh. This apart, the squads will also check consumption of liquor at public places as it often leads to instances of eve-teasing, he said.
 
 In districts, police teams were deployed at shopping malls, markets, bus and tempo stops and similar locations to check the menace. Cops in plain clothes were deployed to check youngsters passing time in groups at street corners and roadside stalls. “The idea is not only to enhance the security of women but to create an atmosphere where people, particularly women and girls, feel more secure,” IG A Satish Ganesh told TOI. 
 
 Apart from the anti-Romeo Squad, special attention is being paid to launch dedicated drives against mafias and listed criminals who had jumped bails or are wanted in criminal cases. Principal Secretary (home) Debashish Panda and DGP Ahmad had, at a meeting of all district magistrates and superintendents of police from across the state through video conferencing on Monday, directed the officers to launch dedicated drives to check incidents like cow slaughter and incidents which could lead to disruption of communal harmony and also warned senior officials of penal action in case of lapses.
 
 To begin with each of the squad would be headed by a sub-inspector and will have two constables along with two lady cops. In major cities every police station will have four or more squads depending upon the deployment requirements. The squads will be deployed at schools and colleges in the morning and day time when schools get over. Thereafter, they will stay mobile at malls and market places.
 
 In the smaller towns similar arrangements will be in place depending upon the need and every circle officer will supervise their deployment of such squads from all the three police station that come under his circle, said IG A Satish Ganesh.
 
