People are dependent on technology and have forgotten to keep track of their physical activity. WHO defines   as any bodily movement produced by skeletal muscles that require energy expenditure – including activities undertaken while working, playing, carrying out household chores, travelling, and engaging in recreational pursuits. The term "physical activity" should not be confused with "exercise". People are less active due to technology and availability of mass transportation. The problems and consequences from our overweight society are sobering. However, we can all make changes. 

 Regular physical activity offers important health benefits, including reduced risk for premature death,  , ischemic stroke and type2 diabetes. National Guidelines for   recommends at least 150 minutes of moderate-intensity aerobic activity for adults in a week, at least 75 minutes of vigorous-intensity aerobic activity, or an equivalent combination for substantial health benefits. Inadequate physical activity can place a health burden that result in higher health expenditure. Studies have consistently shown that obese persons have higher health care expenditures than normal weight persons. One pathway by which physical activity may influence health care expenditures is through its role in weight management. 
 
 By nature humans are not made to be physically inactive.   is a major risk factor for numerous worldwide diseases and millions of premature deaths each year. Studies have shown that long-lived species are more efficient in cellular maintenance than short-lived species, suggesting that enhancement of the body’s maintenance systems may slow the aging process. Since aging results from the accumulation of cellular damage, interventions in poor lifestyles may prevent damage, promote repair, and thereby increase life expectancy. In fact, about two thirds of the major causes of death are, to a significant degree, lifestyle-related. 
 
 Both, society in general and individuals can take action to increase physical activity. Ways to increase physical activity are walking, cycling and other forms of active transportation are accessible and safe for all; implement labor and workplace policies encourage physical activity; schools should have safe spaces and facilities for students to spend their free time actively; quality physical education supports children to develop behavior patterns that will keep them physically active throughout their lives; and sports and recreation facilities provide opportunities for everyone to do sports.
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
