CHENNAI: Two weeks after the   (NCPCR) asked the   to investigate allegations of abuse in an  , 38 of the total 43 children sheltered by the institution were shifted to the nearest registered home. Five of them returned to their families. The move came following a direction from the child welfare committee in Tiruvallur.

 In reaction to an investigation by TOI on unregistered homes last week, the director of social defence has asked all district child protection officers to search the premises of homes that have been closed, even temporarily, and to present the children before the respective child welfare committees. So far, around 350 homes, housing about 21,000 children, have been shut.
 
 The commission had written to the state following a report compiled by Change India Centre for advocacy and research, which alleged that several children living in the home, Balagurukulam in Murugambedu, Ambattur, were abused and trafficked.
 
 Officials in the directorate of social defence said a team was sent to investigate. “The home seemed to have all the facilities required. The children, too, had no complaints,” said Senthil, the district child protection officer (DCPO). He said the children were produced before the Child Welfare Committee on Friday as the orphanage's provisional registration had expired a week ago. “They have been temporarily shifted to a home in Thirunindravur till their application for fresh registration is processed," he said.
 
 “While the DCPO attributed the transfer of children to the pending registration, another officer who inspected the facility said sanitation on the premise was poor.Children take time to open up,” he said, a view that was echoed by a CWC member TOI spoke to. 
 
 The home also didn't have records of the children at the time of inspection, he said. When TOI called up the institution as a donor, one of the organisation's trustees, Sumathy Ranjith answered, saying the children had just gone home for vacation. “But you can still donate. Our account details are available in our website,” she said. She denied allegations of abuse, saying they were claims by people with “vested interests”.
 
 A Narayanan of Change India, who compiled a report based on Balagurukulam's records say several children had also gone missing from the home. “When we compare the name list of children obtained from various sources for the years 2005, 2006, 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2017 there are missing links and whereabouts of many children are not known,” he said.
 
