Kolkata:  , Nobel laureate and author of ‘The Argumentative Indian’, led the chorus of angry voices that questioned the   board’s intent and interest in demanding the wipeout of words like “cow”, “Gujarat”, “Hindu India” and “Hindutva view of India” from a documentary film revolving around conversations between Sen and Kaushik Basu, chief economic adviser in the UPA-2 regime.

 Expressing astonishment at the Central Board of Film Certification finding anything controversial in an innocuous film, Sen said it settled a key question in his mind: whether bodies like the censor board appointed by the central government acted in the interest of the nation and the people or in the interest of the ruling party and the ruling government. “I think this particular incident offers a fairly clear answer,” he told a private television channel on Wednesday.
 
 The   objections were met with disbelief and outrage by the likes of poet Sankha Ghosh, actor Soumitra Chattopadhyay and author Nabaneeta Dev Sen, who came down heavily on the board for its “attack on freedom of expression”.
 
 Chief minister  , too, joined the angry voices. “Every single voice of the opposition is being muzzled. Now, Dr Amartya Sen. If somebody of his stature cannot express himself freely, what hope does the common citizen have!” she tweeted. 
 
 Sen himself remarked that the CBFC’s actions were a ref-lection of the authoritarian reg-ime that currently ruled the country. “It (the censorship) tells you that the country is in the hands of an authoritarian regime, which is pursuing its own view of what is good for the country,” Sen said. 
 
 The regime wants to use these bodies (CBFC) that are meant to be bodies of the state rather than the government to act in the interset of the government and the ruling party running the government. It tells you about the way democracy is being interpreted by the party in the ruling group,” he said.
 
 Many here view the CBFC’s actions as being part of the centre’s proxy war against Sen, who has been extremely criticial of demonetisation and has often taken on prime minister Narendra Modi for the Gujarat riots that happened during his tenure as chief minister. ‘Argumentative Indian’ director Suman Ghosh himself did not rule out the Sen’s presence in the documentary as being one of the reasons for the CBFC’s hypersensitivity.
 
 CBFC officials, though, brushed aside such suggestions. “We have not refused certification to the documentary. The examining committee has approved the documentary for ‘U’ certification with some amendments. It was conveyed to the director immediately after the screening. According to the prevailing system, the examination committee’s recommendations along with its reports are automatically referred online to the CBFC chairperson. Certification is issued after his approval. If the director doesn’t agree with the certification and the recommendations, he can always go to the revising committee,” a CBFC insider said.
 
 Ghosh intends to appeal to the revising committee. “I think the CBFC has been given a list of words that should not be used in any content in a film. If I was asked to beep cow, Gujarat, Hindu and Hindutwa, director Anik Dutta was asked to beep the word ‘Ram’ when it surfaced in the dialogues of ‘Meghnadbadh Rahashya’. I will clearly not accept these recommendations and will approach the revising committee,” he said. If still dissatisfied, the filmmaker can approach the Film Certification Appellate Tribunal.
 
 CBFC CEO Anurag Srivastava on Wednesday evening raked up a fresh controversy by questioning how the documentary had been screened in Nandan before it was certified. The director argued that tickets were not sold and so it could be considered a private show and not a public screening. But Srivastava differed: “It is a clear violation of law. Even if it’s unpaid, it is still public exhibition. I will talk to the chairperson about this.”
 
 Poet Srijato, who watched the documentary at Nandan 3 on Monday, said the CBFC move was an attempt to curb freedom of expression. “I consider it to be an important film. Everyone must watch it. Amartya Sen's comments come from years of experience and vast knowledge,” Srijato said.
 
 Former   MP Krishna Bose, who was also present at the screening, said references to the Gujarat riots, ban on cow slaughter and the BJP’s Hindutva agenda may appear unwarranted for some but they were facts that could not be deleted from history. “We may disagree with the views but still we need to listen to them. Had CBFC not objected and drawn attention to them, it may not have created such a stir,” she said.
 
 The Nobel laureate himself, on a lighter note, remarked that he had wondered whether anyone would consider seeing the film as not many would be interested in him. But that was before the CBFC made the film more interesting by raising the objections, he said. “I am grateful to it (the CBFC) for that,” he added.
 
 Actor George Baker, a CBFC member who was a BJP candidate from Howrah in the last assembly polls, said he had great respect for Sen but was against the misuse of intelligence and intellect. “There are some touchy subjects in Bengal. We claim to be apolitical but do things with a political agenda. It seems a publicity stunt to me, an attempt to ride piggyback on censorship issues. Monday’s screening at Nandan 3 was illegal since it did not have a censor certificate. Those who talk about freedom of expression are taking the liberty to break rules,” he said.
 
