
 
  
 
  
  UP election was a big game changer in many ways. Decisive mandates are always good for markets as it gives a clear direction. Investors believe that this could have a ruboff effect and have an impact even on the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, which is good enough time for rolling out all economic policies by the current regime.
  
  
 
  
  India has a high savings rate of 31%, which in the past would go into  ,   and fixed income. The investor interest in these three asset classes are on a decline and they want to put more money into equity.The money, which went into banks on account of  , is not being withdrawn and is being used productively adding to the investi ble pool. The flows in the  , insurance and pension schemes continue to be robust and that continues to fuel the market. In the past, FPIs were the drivers of the market and domestic investors were considered to be the followers. Now, the trend has reversed and this trend is here to stay. The Indian markets have performed very well and this is motivating a lot of individuals to come to the market in a big way, and that is why you see these   getting subscribed multi-times.
  
  
 
  
  Emerging markets have performed well including their currencies. Among all the emerging markets, India stands out because of its  , political stability, highquality companies and management.The interest of FPIs in India continues to be high. Last year, we saw an inflow of close to $8.5 billion. With new tax regime kicking in, we may see flows getting moderate in the near term. But on an average, we could see around $12 billion-$15 billion of FPI inflows happening very easily in India.
  
  
 
  
  We see a more vibrant and sustainable market, backed by strong policy measures. In FY17, around 80 deals have happened (in overall equity market) for about $7.5 billion. Bulk of the activity in   was harvesting by PE investors. On an average, in the last four years, PE investors put $8 billion annually in the country. This continues to be a good time for them to take some money off the table. We'd like to see some large industrial houses come forward and raise money. With the   (Real Estate Investment Trusts) and InvITs ( ) on the way, it will provide investors an opportunity to own paper with underlying high-quality asset.
  
  
 
  
  We can see it happening towards the end of FY18. For that, it is important that the first half of FY18 is played out in the right direction. If policy measures continue and there is no major disruption in the world, you should see delta in earnings kicking in by the end of the year. Going ahead, we see sector after sector being revived and they will start contributing to earnings growth. For example, last year it was oil-marketing companies, which turned around and how. This year we have witnessed strong turnaround in chemicals, sugar and metals and their handsome contributions would be visible. If the trend continues for another year, almost all sectors one by one will be out of woods.
  
  
 
  
  The key challenge is that larger nations are trying to become more inward looking, which could have a huge impact on other trading countries. The second   is US policies on some of the large exporting sectors like IT, Healthcare along with the impact of rate hikes on emerging markets. The third risk is that of disintegration of EU. While Europe seems quiet now, they have their own set of problems which surface periodically along with impact of elections in Germany and France. 
