When you go to watch a film that stars Ganesh, you are guaranteed of certain things — a good dose of comedy, drama, romance and fun. In today’s release,  , produced by SV Productions, rest assured that you will get to see the Golden Star do all this, but there’s more. Ganesh dons the khaki onscreen for the first time in this film, but don’t expect to see him play a policeman the way you are used to seeing in films. For he plays ACP Surya, an intense  , who, although packs in powerful punches, also has all the characteristics that Ganesh is known and loved for.
“I am excited about playing a cop — it’s something that I’ve wanted to do for a while. But I don’t feel any kind of pressure, since I was confident that I would perform well. I used to essay serious roles when I did plays in college, but after Mungaru Male, I started getting soft and emotional characters. It’s great to do family films, but I don’t believe in having a certain image. As an actor, I want to try different things, and that’s good for business as well, since the audience expects an artiste to do different things, all while retaining the things they are best known for. We kept that in mind while molding corrupt ACP officer Surya’s character. So, Pataki has drama, fun, action, emotions and thrilling elements. Emotions are very important in action thrillers — the audience has to feel a connect with the movie and they should feel that Surya needs to hit a certain character in the film. That’s when a film is meaningful,” says Ganesh, about his character in the film. Although it is the remake of the Telugu hit  , director and writer   has ensured that Pataki is an original take. 
 “We have changed 50% of the script, because it wasn’t possible to give Ganesh a complete action makeover. Usually, when it comes to remakes, people change 5%-6% of the script, but we have used the original just as a base and changed it to suit the nativity. The first half of Pataas and Pataki are completely different. Sadhu Kokila’s character of a transgender is not there in the original, but in this film, we can’t do without him. We have added essences like emotions and comedy to suit Kannada sensibilities,” says Manju.
 The impact of the movie will be such, says Ganesh, that when people leave the theatre after watching the film, they will all feel like they are ACP Surya, aping his walking style, dialogue delivery and, especially, the way he says “police”. Still not convinced about watching it? Ganesh tells you why you need to change your mind. “There are many firsts for me in this film. Apart from playing a cop, this is also the first time that audiences will see me in such an intense character, with high-voltage dialogues and action sequences. It is a complete family entertainer, and the combination of   and me, playing DIG and ACP, respectively, is one to look out for, as is the screenplay that is fast-paced. This film has all the elements that one looks for in a Ganesh film, plus extra elements to look out for,” he signs off.
 
 
