HYDERABAD:  ,  , whose 50th death anniversary falls on Friday, is perhaps the only Indian princely ruler, who is equally admired and despised. Mir Osman Ali Khan, the longest serving  , passed away five decades ago on February 24, 1967.

 The controversy surrounding his regime notwithstanding, the state government had published an 'extraordinary' issue of The   (GO Ms No.172 dated February 24, 1967)) to announce the demise of the Nizam, who guided the destiny of Hyderabad, the biggest princely state during the British regime. Not many know the tricolour was flown at half-mast and all government offices remained closed as a mark of respect to the departed Nizam the next day when the funeral took place. Then chief secretary KN Anantaraman also issued an obituary on behalf of the state government highlighting the “artistic temperament“ and “concrete achievements“ of the Nizam.
 
 Incidentally, Mir Osman Ali Khan was one of the icons during the separate Telangana agitation. He, is however, forgotten after the formation of Telangana state. The ruling TRS leadership hailed him as the builder of modern Hyderabad and came out with documentaries explaining how Hyderabad of the Nizam's times was ahead of other major cities in the world.
 
 “But on his 50th death anniversary that falls on Friday, the Nizam receives a raw deal,“ observes city historian Dr Mohammad Safiullah. He says, “The Deccan Heritage Trust, which he heads, will come out with a DVD showing the contributions of the late leader to Hyderabad and India, including his donation of 7,000 kg of gold to the Indian government to fight against Pakistan.“
 
 The present day government may not want to associate with the observance of the 50th death anniversary . But when the Nizam died, the then government issued an official obituary extolling the unparalleled services of Osman Ali Khan, who also served as the Raj Pramukh (governor).
 
 “The Nizam took great interest in preserving ancient monuments. The conserva tion of Ajanta paintings ranks as one of the greatest achievements of archaeology. He introduced several progressive changes in the administration... took momentous step of separating the judiciary from the executive...“ the state government (GO Ms No.173 dated February 24, 1967) said in Gazette recalling the contribution of Osman Ali Khan. “He kept up the tradition of the house of Asaf Jah to observe absolute impartiality in matters pertaining to religions of different communities in the Dominions.“
 
 According to Nizam Museum documents, “The streets and pavements of the city were littered with the pieces of broken glass bangles as an incalculable number of women broke their bangles in mourning as is the Telangana custom on the death of a close relative.“
 
