NAGPUR: The widening of four-km-long stretch between new Katol Naka square and   is nowadays posing threat to motorists and commuters due to rising number of accidents. Reason: The company, RPS Infrastructure, which has been given the contract for widening the road, has not followed any rules and instructions issued by city traffic police before the start of the work. The delay in executing the work is also adding to people’s woes.

 The company has not taken the necessary NOC (no objection certificate) also from the traffic police department before the start of the work.
 
 A couple of months ago, commissioner of police (Nagpur city) K Venkatesh has issued standing instructions to all contractors for carrying out any road works. According to the instructions, a contractor should furnish within seven days on receipt of the work order a programme schedule supported with bar-chart indicating the date of actual start of the work, the monthly progress expected to be achieved and anticipated completion date of the work. 
 
 The contractor should take necessary precautions for the safety of traffic during construction by erecting strong vertical posts, GI sheets barricading, fencing, signboards, blinkers, flasher boards, rotaries, directive signboards, red flags etc on the site where the work is on progress.
 
 The firm, according to sources, neither obtained any permission from the traffic police branch for the work nor following any safety norms at the site. Also, openings are found at many places in the construction area which were not sealed. Road users said that no barrier or caution tape is present in the construction area.
 
 Though the work progressed well when it began five months ago, it is now inching sluggishly much to the agony of road users. “In the absence of police personnel or diversion boards, accidents on the patch between   and Ayyappa temple have become a regular feature,” Ajeet Singh, a resident of Palotti Nagar, said. 
 
 “Since the blue metal used for laying the base gets uprooted by speeding heavy vehicles and lies scattered on the road, accidents involving two-wheelers has become common,” Yogesh Jadhav, a resident of Raj Nagar, said.
 
 Also, road users said, construction materials are placed along the roads which are not visible during the night hours. There are no reflective stickers or caution boards on the site at many places, they said.
 
 They wanted the work area to be completely sealed off so that vehicles do not enter it, leading to untoward incidents. “The contractor has to ensure the safety of the workers and also the road users,” they said.
 
 With work expected to continue for the next couple of months, the demand for safety measures on road grows.
 
 Even the state’s public works department to ensure that a contractor erects the site/work information signboards on site as per Indian Road   rule 67. Even the   has similar rules and regulations for the contractors but the government agency is turning a blind eye when contractors violate them. 
 
 Raj Narayan Jaiswal of RPS Infrastructure refused to comment stating he was out of station.
 
