PARSONS GREEN: The members of the ‘Chalbaaz’ crew, in London for the shoot, passed through Parsons Green station on Thursday — the site where an IED blast left 22 injured with flash burns, grazes and scrapes on Friday morning.

 Director Joydeep Mukherjee, who had a two-day break from shooting, had an eerie feeling of déjà vu on Friday. “I had reached London a day after the Westminister attack to do a recce. The Manchester attack happened just before I was leaving for the London shoot of ‘Tui Shudhu Amar’. Now, this explosion. On Thursday afternoon, I had crossed the same station when I went to Wimbledon,” said Mukherjee, now back in his hotel in Slough.
 
 But actor Subhashree Ganguly remained unfazed. On Thursday, she, along with make-up artists Noor Alam and Sayantan Dhali, had also crossed the same tube station before going shopping on  . “Such incidents don’t scare me. I will not let this impact my life,” Ganguly said.
 
 Locals there seemed to share her feelings.   against terror, they tried their best to get back to normal life, even opening their doors to those in need of assistance. Sri Lankan general physician Susan Leslie, who lives just five minutes from the station, has put up a sign at her door, offering the use of charging ports and toilets. “It was my daughter Holy’s idea to let everyone in. On a sheet of paper, she wrote ‘Toilets + Charging Ports. Feel Free to Use Them’. We can’t allow terrorists to defeat us,” she said.
 
 It was a similar scene at Maraim Boudarga’s household. Her husband Jason Wischhoff has a Mumbai connection on his mother’s side. “We have two boys and a girl and they go to the Marie D’Orliac school. The kids were already in class and Jason was walking in front of the tube station when the blast happened. Thankfully, he reached home safely. Soon, we received an email from the school saying that our kids were safe too. As of now, the entire area is cordoned off. But when the school closes at 3pm, I will go down to pick up my children,” she said, concerned about what would happen to her friend   who was asked to evacuate from her house. 
 
 Though around noon the area near Fulham Fire Station looked desolate, by late afternoon, buses and taxis had started plying and everything in Fulham was functional. 
 
