BATHINDA: The   (PSPCL) on Monday snapped three connections in the name of the family of   from  , who is the daughter-in-law of former chief minister  . The family owed more than Rs 27 lakh to the corporation. 

 "The PSPCL had asked the family of Karan to pay the dues of over Rs 27 lakh by Monday, but after waiting the entire day their three connections were disconnected. The family owed Rs 18.6 lakh against a connection to a stud farm, Rs 8.16 lakh for a dairy and Rs 88,000 against another commercial connection. All these connections were at Sarainaga village in Muktsar," said PSPCL's Bariwala SDO Sanjay Kumar. 
 
 On the other hand Karan claimed that, "I am not fully aware of the pending dues. I only know that our family has approached the consumer disputes redressal forum as the bill is highly inflationary and the erratic power supply caused a loss of nearly Rs 35 lakh to the family in its business venture. The family is committed to paying all dues." 
 
 She had shown Rs 7.62 lakh as dues payable to the PSPCL in her affidavit while filing nomination papers for the February 4 assembly elections from Muktsar assembly. 
 
 Apart from her, the authorities have given time till Tuesday to SAD youth leader Kanwarjit Singh Barkandi, who had contested elections on SAD ticket from Muktsar, to pay the dues of Rs 3.70 lakh or face disconnection. The family of another Akali leader on Monday partly paid the payment to avoid disconnection.
 
 Muktsar city SDO Kuldeep Raj said, "Rs 3.70 lakh are pending against an office maintained by Barkandi. The staff of SAD leader has assured us that they will pay (the dues) by Tuesday." 
 
 Abul Khurana SDO Amandeep Singh said that, "The family of late Akali leader Amrik Singh Tarmala on Monday made part payment of Rs 1.80 lakh of the nearly Rs 4 lakh pending against their name. They have assured to pay the rest in a week". 
 
 Last week, the PSCPL had tightened the grip around those persons, including SAD leader Dyal Singh Kolianwali's son Parminder Singh and some other politicians, who had defaulted in paying power dues in Muktsar district. Sources said the corporation has dues of nearly Rs 500 crore towards various departments of the state government across the state. 
 
 
