PUNE: Eight-year-old   had heard from his   that the Army can lay a   a river in an hour, but it was only on Thursday that he saw it with his own eyes. 

 The experience left him feeling awestruck. “It is so huge!” was all Sachin could bring himself to say. 
 
 The youngster, who was with his father, was merely one among the many visitors on the opening day of the Bharatiya Vigyan Sammelan and Expo at Fergusson College grounds. They were just treated to a demonstration of Sarvatra, a multi-span mobile bridging system, by Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) personnel.
 
 Sarvatra is a 75m-long multi-span mobile bridging system. It comprises five scissor bridges made of an aluminum alloy. Each bridge is 15m wide, and is mounted on a mobile platform. Each platform can be driven from either end. A microprocessor-based control system is utilised to deploy and operationalize the entire system in less than two-and-half hours.
 
 On the first day of the expo, many exhibitors from various fields were on hand to display their latest innovations. Exhibitors included the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR), institutions like the CIMAP, Lucknow, and the Bhabha Atomic Research Centre, and academic partners like SP College and Deccan Education Society. 
 
 Several small start-ups also brought to the table newly-developed mobile applications and innovations, with functions ranging from measuring key vitals in the human body to academic evaluations and consequent rewards. 
 
 But almost all the attention, after the expo was inaugurated by academician Vijay Bhatkar, was focused on the formidable presence of DRDO, and their products in use by the Armed Forces. They also displayed projects that are under development. There were the latest, indigenously developed assault rifles, a flexible pistol-holder augmented with a camera to facilitate better surveillance, scaled-downed models as well as actual launchers for the flagship rockets of the Armed Forces — such as the BrahMos, or the Akash. 
 
 Another major draw was a collection of robots which can detect and even defuse explosives in crowded areas, all of which the DRDO claims have been indigenously designed and developed.
 
 “This is incredible.!” exclaimed engineering student Pooja Jain. “I knew the DRDO was going to be there, but I never expected the actual products to be on put display,” added Pooja, who was there with her friends.
 
 Private concerns like   and   also brought their products designed for the use of the Armed Forces, like launchers for Howitzers of various calibre.
 
 Almost all the items on display wowed the crowd, with the DRDO’s mobile shelter receiving visitors as soon as the expo began.
 
 “How can this small a structure accommodate eight people and be unharmed in the event of a nuclear attack?” wondered Samir Mohammad, an engineer. 
 
 The expo will wind down this Sunday. 
 
