PUNE: The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Monday put to rest the hopes for an early   in Kerala as in Andamans.

 The IMD officials expect a normal   onset date over Kerala because of an anti-cyclone over the west coast, hindering its further movement. A K Sahai, climate research and services, IMD, Pune, told TOI that an anticyclone in the lower levels over the Arabian Sea was hindering the further advancement of monsoon towards the west coast and Kerala.
 
 “Extended range forecasts show that the anti-cyclone is expected to dissipate by May-end, leading to strengthening of the westerlies. This will translate in to a normal monsoon onset date over Kerala,” said Sahai.
 
 Monsoon normally reaches Kerala on June 1. A late or early onset by a day or two is considered normal.
 
 The southwest monsoon had advanced into some parts of southeast Bay of Bengal, Nicobar Islands, entire south   and parts of north Andaman Sea on May 14, a day prior to its onset date here. But there was no progress in monsoon on Monday. Scientists believe it is due to the persisting anticyclone over the Arabian Sea.
 
 On how monsoon is expected to fare this year, Sahai said with models showing weakening of El Nino conditions and strengthening of IOD (Indian Ocean Dipole) conditions during monsoon 2017, hopes for rains close to 100% of the 50-year average are becoming more plausible. 
 
 The IMD had earlier forecast this year’s monsoon rains at 96% of the long period average.
 
 A K Srivastava, senior scientist and head of climate monitoring and analysis group at IMD, Pune, said the normal monsoon onset date over Andaman is around May 15, and that over Port Blair is May 20. “This time, monsoon arrived over Andaman a day early as weather conditions over that part changed rapidly, heralding the onset of monsoon,” he said.
 
 D S Pai, head, climate prediction, climate research division, IMD, Pune, said there was no relationship between the date of monsoon arrival over Andaman and its arrival in Kerala or the quantum of rainfall. 
 
 “There have been seasons in the past when monsoon arrived early over Andaman but reached Kerala on time,” he said.
 
