BENGALURU: The  , conducted by the   ( ), ran into trouble in  , Goa on Tuesday after one of the four teams in the semifinal was accused of having fielded overage players.

 “We have got a confirmation that the birth certificates submitted by a few players of the  , Bengaluru were not in order,” sources in the AIFF told TOI.
 
 They said a Delhi-based team lodged a complaint that Ozone FC had fielded overage players, prompting AIFF to verify the documents. “We received specific inputs against five players. These players had produced birth certificates issued by the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP). Following this, the tournament organizers cross-checked the details with BBMP officials who said they hadn’t issued these certificates,” the sources added.
 
 Meanwhile, Ozone club officials produced a Karnataka High Court order on Tuesday which restrained the committee from debarring Ozone from playing the Y-League semifinals for the Nike Premier Cup.
 
 “The order asked AIFF not take any action against Ozone based on the certificates produced by the players. Since there was no time for AIFF to appeal against the order, the committee decided to allow Ozone to play in the semifinal against Shillong Lajong FC. If they win the match, the committee will meet again to decide further,” AIFF sources added.
 
 They also said that four Bengaluru-based players of Conscient Football team, Delhi were found overage. “Those players had also produced birth certificates issued by BBMP,” sources said.
 
 If the disciplinary committee had found Ozone guilty they would have had to forfeit the semifinal by a 3-0 margin.
 
 Ozone boys had entered the semifinals after a superb show in the qualifying round and group stages of the 16-team finals. In their six matches in the qualifiers, Ozone pumped in 36 goals without conceding any.
 
 Three of the top-scorers in the league are also from Ozone. While Ajay Alex leads the pack with 13 goals in 9 matches, Ignatius John is fifth with 8 goals in 8 appearances and Umashankar seventh with 7 strikes in 7 matches.
 
 Ozone officials called it a malicious campaign to defame the club. “One of the players they have found overage is an India international who is a product of the AIFF academy. None of these players are guilty and we will pursue this at the highest level to ensure that we play in the tournament.”
 
 Meanwhile, experts wondered why the Federation didn’t conduct medical tests on all players before the start of the tournament to weed out any overage players. “The only did random tests picking one or two players from each team,” a team official said.
 
 Bengaluru FC vs Minerva FC
 
 In Wednesday’s second semifinal, Bengaluru FC will take on defending champions Minerva FC. BFC advanced with a 1-0 win against Red Star FC in their last league match. BFC colts topped Group C with seven points from three games
 
 
