NOIDA: The district court has ordered an  ,   and a brother of former chief minister  , for allegedly cheating a homebuyer couple in Noida.

 According to sources, the court had on May 1 directed the police to carry out an investigation and submit an action taken report within seven days. The police, which received the order on Friday, would soon lodge the FIR, they said.
 
 According to D K Sharma, counsel for petitioner Manju Sharma, his client was conned into paying Rs 13.7 lakh for a property located in Sector 150 of Noida. “My client, Manju Sharma, a resident of   Grand, lives with her husband in Greater Noida. After retirement, they were looking for a flat. In 2014, they met one Deepak Gupta, who introduced himself as a business partner of Anand Kumar. Gupta then introduced them to one Rajeev Sharma, who had been described as a consultant with Noida Authority,” Sharma said.
 
 “The Sharmas were promised a flat in Elixir Windz project in Sector 150, Noida, at a low price. On May 2, 2014, the couple also met Kumar. Feeling confident about the credentials of the developers, my client then agreed to invest Rs 53.48 lakh. They paid Rs 8 lakh by cheque and Rs 5.70 in cash. The possession was promised in three years. However, when they made a site visit in April 2017, they found that no construction had been started in the project,” the lawyer said. “We also found out that the plot had been allotted by Noida Authority to another developer,” he added. “When my clients asked them to refund the money on April 13, 2017, they were threatened. A complaint was lodged at Surajpur police station regarding the fraud by the developer but the police did not do anything. My client then sought judicial reprieve and submitted an application under Section 156(3) of the CrPC in the district court. The court has directed that an FIR be lodged under sections 420, 468, 471, 504 and 506 of the IPC,” he explained.
 
 The Noida Authority, meanwhile, said that they would assist the police in their investigations and provide all details regarding the project.
 
 Officials of the project, Elixir Windz, confirmed that their developer is Rajeev Sharma. They, however, denied any involvement of Anand Kumar and said they did not know who he is.Last month, Mayawati had appointed her brother Anand Kumar as BSP’s national vice-president. Kumar and wife are alleged to have several corporate interests and are on the board of directors of at least 10 companies, which own assets worth hundreds of crores.
 
 
