PANAJI: Months after the garbage treatment plant on the   plateau started generating electricity from biogas generated from the waste, the government is yet to push ahead the files to approve the export of surplus power to the  . The resultant delay is leading to biogas, capable of generating power to a quantum of 375KW being burnt away every month. 

 As per plant officials, the electricity department officials had visited the plant and the exporting of surplus power was supposed to begin by March. But officials are now stating that the surplus power reaching the state grids may take some more time. 
 
 “The plant is generating around 873KW of power per month for its own consumption from the biogas created from biodegradable waste. Surplus power of 375KW is also being generated every month. We are waiting for government’s approval to export the power to the electricity department,”  , managing director of Goa State Infrastructure Development Corporation Limited ( ) said, adding that the plant has been generating the surplus power for the past seven months. 
 
 Another senior official from GSIDC affirmed that a draft power purchase agreement was done with the electricity department and the protection system is yet to be finalized. 
 
 “The plant generated 1, 64,766 cubic meter of biogas in January and 1, 46,980 cubic meters in February. Power needed for plant operations is being met within this output. Since there is no mechanism to export the power right now, we are flaring surplus biogas,” the official shared. 
 
 Senior officials from the Goa electricity department stated that the delay is from their side. 
 
 “The department didn't receive any proposal from them (GSIDC). After reading reports in the press the department contacted them and asked for their technical details. From our side we have already referred them for a power purchase agreement. The proposal's feasibility will have to be seen and an agreement will have to be signed and rates will have to be approved by the   (JERC). Infrastructure will have to be stepped up. The cost will have to be worked out and it will have to be tendered.”
 
 
