KOCHI: For the past two years, the girl believed that the person who had been   her was a man. On Friday, she realized that the tormentor is a woman, almost double her age. 

  Police arrested 26-year-old   alias Chinavi alias Sanisha, who allegedly employed a   to exploit her neighbour's daughter, aged 15.
 
 The incident came to light when an older sibling of the girl found a letter, purportedly written by the woman, hidden in one of the books of the minor. The letter reportedly detailed the   performed on the girl, police said. The older sibling confided the matter to the family, who contacted Childline. Police said Childline reported Sini to them.
 
 Police and Childline said they were sceptical about how the girl assumed that her abuser was a man all along, but explain it by saying that a combination of factors - the woman's 'manly' appearance, the minor girl's own sexual ignorance and her traumatised state during the two years of forced sex - could have made her credulous.
 
 The woman allegedly threatened the girl into submission, police said. She reportedly shot the   while the latter was changing clothes, and threatened that it would be uploaded on to the social media.
 
 Threatened, the girl succumbed to the woman's whims. Sini allegedly made a sex toy using clothes, plastic and balloon, strapped it on her waist and violated the minor several times over the past two years.
 
 The child was tortured whenever she refused to cooperate, police said.
 
 The accused was living with her brother and sister-in-law, police said, adding that the girl was abused at Sini's house, when others were not around.
 
 Throughout the past two years, the girl was under the impression that Sini, who occasionally worked as a saleswoman in city shops, was a man.
 
  Police took Sini to the General Hospital, Ernakulam, where a gender determination test confirmed her to be a woman.
 
 Sini has been charged under Section 377 (unnatural sex) and relevant sections of the Pocso (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences) Act.
 
 Relevant sections of Kerala Police Act and IT Act were also invoked, since the accused had made video recordings of the girl.
 
 
 
 
