AHMEDABAD: A deputy superintendent of police (DSP) who had earlier investigated the rape of a minor girl, stated before a local court that he did not know about the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act.

 DSP Dharmendra Desai, 48, is currently posted in the state  . On Wednesday, when cross-examined by the defence counsel, Desai told a POCSO court: “I do not know when the POCSO Act was introduced. I do not know the full form of POCSO. 
 
 What is aggravated, penetrative sexual assault? Replying to this question, I answer that I do not know about that. I do not know about provisions of punishment in Section 3 and 4 of POCSO Act.”
 
 The statement was made before the POCSO court in connection with the rape case involving a minor girl registered with Nikol police station in the city.
 
 Desai, who had conducted the investigation, also stated during cross-examination that he did not verify the date of birth of the minor girl with the birth registration officer. Desai was also ignorant of amendments in the law against rape.
 
 “I cannot say anything about the changes in sections of Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) but I can speak about them after seeing the records. I do now know if there have been any amendments in the law dealing with rape,” Desai said during cross-examination.
 
 Desai also stated that although he knew that DNA test should be conducted in a rape case, he had not conduct the DNA test of the accused or of the minor girl. “I did not recommend a DNA test in a list of samples sent to   for analysis,” the DSP told the court.
 
 A minor girl was allegedly raped by a youth known to her and her family on June 18, 2015. A complaint was lodged with Nikol police station on July 1, 2015 when Desai was a senior police inspector.
 
 
 
 
 A senior police officer claiming ignorance of amendments in rape laws and the basic details of a crucial law related to child sexual abuse is a matter of grave concern. The state police department should take a serious view of such an alarming lack of awareness and conduct regular sensitization and education workshops for its officials so that they remain up-to-date with the law and secure justice for the victims.
 
 
 
