BENGALURU: Increasing push for   notwithstanding,   seems to be hampering the ambitious initiative to make   in  . 

 The   (NOFN) scheme, launched by the Centre in 2013, aimed at providing broadband connectivity of 100Mbps bandwidth to ensure e-governance and other e-services at panchayats. However, given the state of electricity, internet connectivity and other related infrastructure in the state, the initiative looks more like a pipe dream.
 
 Rural development and Panchayati Raj minister H K Patil said 4,737 of the total 6,022 gram panchayats have been provided with broadband internet connectivity to offer public services online. 
 
 While these figures look impressive, little is said about how many kilometres of this optic fibre is actually functional or how many gram panchayats are actually utilizing this connectivity to access internet. After almost four years, even the pilot locations are not fully functional and in areas where there’s internet, common people are yet to derive any benefit as it is very slow. 
 
 JD(S) leader Madhu Bangarappa said there has been no connectivity in most of the gram panchayats in his constituencies which comprise Soraba, Talguppa and Anavatti. “Villagers are forced to travel to gram panchayats where network is available, thus defeating the very purpose of the concept,” he added.
 
 While the state government plans to provide Wi-Fi connection in all the districts, doubts have been raised over its implementation in all the panchayats. “Internet connection is necessary to offer various services in these panchayats. I don’t understand why the government announces such scheme if they can’t deliver,’’ Bangarappa said.
 
 “While both the state and central governments are pushing for online services and cashless transactions, especially since the Digital India initiative, they have to ensure that the information is accessible to the people. Connectivity can bridge this gap and provide access to not just the internet but also to food, health, education, jobs, rights and opportunities,” said B Karamakar of Belagavi-based Rural Welfare Foundation.
 
 
