BHOPAL: A 17-year-old girl was dragged into a car in one of the most happening residential localities of Bhopal on Sunday and   for over an hour as she was driven up and down the same road that thousands of commuters take every day. And all this in clear daylight.

 By the time she was dumped near Om Nagar, she was so much shock and pain that she could not string together a coherent sentence for over two hours. Even now, she is so traumatized that she hasn’t been able to explain all that happened to her. Police have registered a  , and are conducting investigations to see if more serious charges need to be added.
 
 This is the second such incident in just four days. On February 16, three men tried to drag a woman into a vehicle in Govindpura, but she fought back so hard that they left her and fled.
 
 On Sunday, the teenager was walking down Kolar Road near a well-known residential complex when a car screeched to a stop beside her and a man sitting in the rear seat dragged her in. There was another man in the front seat. The duo and the driver took turns to assault her as the car was driven down the busy road and the lanes and bylanes where dozens of swanky residential complexes have come up in the last couple of years.
 
 She said she kept fighting all the while, until the kidnappers gave up and pushed her out in Om Nagar around 1pm, some 6km from where she was kidnapped. Her clothes were tattered and she could barely make it to her feet. A passerby stopped to help her and put her through to her father.
 
 The family took her to police, but she was so traumatized that she couldn’t say anything. For close to two hours, police tried to understand what had happened and then took her for a medical examination. She is still in shock.
 
 Police said there is a CCTV close to the spot where she was kidnapped. They have examined it and are identifying the car. The survivor has told police that she did not knew any of the tormentors and that they looked around 25 years of age.
 
 The crime has shocked Kolar area. In the earlier the incident in Govindpura, a 24-year-old woman was taking a walk in the evening when three people came by in a   vehicle and tried to kidnap her. She fought back hard. Just then her brother was passing by and the attackers decided to flee. 
 
