GURUGRAM: The first long weekend of the year is around the corner, and a good number of NCR residents are taking advantage of an official holiday,   on Thursday, and tagging a leave on Friday, to stretch their weekend to four days.

 So, where are people travelling to, and what are they going to be doing, during the first extended break of 2017?
 
 According to   – COO of Gurgaon-based Yatra.com – long weekends translate into short  . “The Republic Day long weekend is a very popular time for people to head out for a mini break and this is a trend we have seen over the past few years,” he said.
 
 Most are keen on fleeing the Delhi winter, with sunny locales like Goa, Kerala and Rajasthan topping vacationers’ wish lists. But adventure tourism is catching on amongst metro folk. “These destinations continue to attract the bulk of tourists from across the country, but places like Rishikesh and Coorg are becoming popular amongst those seeking to  ,” Dhall added. Meanwhile, away from India, Thailand and Dubai remain all-time favourites (as do Indonesia and Sri Lanka). 
 
 For Gurgaonites happy to stay back, there are outdoors events on Sunday, each with ecology as a theme. The Aravali Trail Blazers are organising the latest ‘Intelenet Trail-a-thon’, an in-the-lap-of-nature experience that seeks to celebrate the beauty of the Aravalis.
 
 “We know all about the Aravalis that surround Gurgaon, however what lies inside of them still remains a secret for most NCR residents,” said Umesh Gupta, one of the event’s organisers. The   will commence in   and travel all the way to the Damdama basin before turning back, passing through scrub and forest, and terrain both verdant and arid.
 
 There are runs according to the skill and experience of the participant (7km, 14km, 28km and 56km), while for the endurance men and women, there is a half-day (12-hour) run. Altogether, 1,200 runners are expected to take part, up from 750 last year and 350 in 2015, and each will be following the Trail-a-thon’s motto of ‘Run, reclaim and revive the Aravalis’.
 
 Meanwhile, the ‘Green Wheels Bike Festival’ is a day out for families, a fest that endeavours to promote a culture of cycling amongst city residents. It will also feature the Duathlon, a run for juniors.
 
 Plenty, then, to keep kids and grown-ups occupied over the weekend – even if you’re not heading out of town. 
 
