“I have become more handsome, patient and peaceful after taking up farming,” said actor-turned-farmer   to a packed audience in Coimbatore. The   actor was in the city recently to partake in a congregation of farmers, where he waxed eloquent about gardening and farming. Prakash Raj turned to   around three years ago and since then the actor has not only taken his part-time occupation seriously, but, has also been taking up the cause of farmers with gusto.

 Speaking on the occasion, Prakash Raj said, “When I took up farming, a number of people asked me why? I explained to them that agriculture was a way of life. One needs to have a constant connect with nature, just as we share an imitable bond with our family. We have been de-silting lakes and other water bodies, but, I believe we need to desilt our inner self. After I became an actor, I always wondered that I didn’t have a connection with soil. I soon bought a piece of land for myself. I realized later that you don’t need to know everything about farming, before getting into it. You learn with experience. I have now started earning by selling my veggies and it gives me immense satisfaction.”
 
 He emphasized on the fact that it’s time we human beings co-existed with nature instead of looking for material gains. “There is a lot of talk about saving nature, but let me tell you, nature doesn’t need any saving. It’s we human beings, who need to be saved. Just like the earth survived without dinosaurs, it can survive without human beings, too. We are dependent on nature, so let’s behave. Also, it’s time we learnt to co-exist with nature. We cannot be proud of ourselves for being an actor. We are just a result of recyclable matter, after all. In fact, even our birth and death is not in our control."
 
 But, how can someone in the city maintain a relationship with a farmer? "Here’s an example. If you live in an apartment that has around 300- 400 houses, why not adopt a village in the outskirts and buy all your veggies from there. On weekends, you can take your children and show how farming is done. This way you can build the bridge between farming and your family. Embrace nature and take up farming as a responsibility and a movement. 
 
