HYDERABAD: Eight years ago, Andhra Pradesh was united and there was no strong Telangana state movement. Determined to give a fillip to the movement through Gandhian methods, TRS leader K Chandrasekhar Rao proceeded to launch an indefinite hunger strike at Siddipet but was arrested by the cops while he was on his way to the venue from   on November 29, 2009. 

 The arrest of   was unacceptable to 23-year-old student Kasoju Srikanth Chary, who had done his physiotherapy from a college at Tarnaka and headed to LB Nagar to protest the detention of his leader. Srikanth hailed from   village of Mothkur mandal in   and had been actively participating in the movement for a separate Telangana state. 
 
 KCR had launched the agitation in 2001 and till then, there were protests and demonstrations bot no dramatic or drastic actions. What Srikanth Chary did on November 29 sent a chilling message to the Centre about the seriousness of the people of Telangana to achieve a separate statehood.
 
 Srikanth doused himself in kerosene and set himself ablaze. Having suffered critical injuries, he died on December 3, 2009. His body was taken in a huge procession to the Martyr's Memorial at Gun Park near   for people to pay their respects and later taken to his native village for the last rites.
 
 On June 2, 2017, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao will first head to the Martyr's Memorial to pay respects to not only Srikanth Chary, but all those who laid down their lives for the Telangana cause. 
 
 Srikanth Chary's suicide resulted in a domino effect, with many giving up their lives for the cause. Despite repeated pleas from the TRS leadership, the suicides continued with many leaving suicide notes saying they were taking their lives to achieve Telangana.
 
 After the TRS came to power in the 2014 elections, it came up with a list of 459 people who ended their lives. Subsequently, another 36 names were added. An amount of 10 lakh each was given as compensation for the families of those who laid down their lives. 
 
 Come this state formation day, in all the 31 districts of Telangana, homage will be paid to the martyrs. In the erstwhile 10 districts of the state, memorials were constructed as per specifications given by the state government. However, these are yet to be constructed in the newly formed districts. At these places, collectors have been asked to put up temporary memorials where homage could be paid by ministers, legislators, MPs, collectors, government officials and the people. 
 
