Ahmedabad: Known as the motivator, recruiter, and bomb-maker, Yasin Bhatkal — of the banned terror outfit Indian Mujahideen — was flown to Ahmedabad from Delhi on Friday morning by a special Border Security Force (BSF) plane amid tight security. Bhatkal’s associate Ashadullah Akhtar alias Haddi was brought along with him to Ahmedabad.

 
 Crime branch sources said both were accused in the July 2008 serial blasts case. “We have been trying to get Bhatkal and Haddi on a transfer warrant since their arrest in August 2013 from Raxual, near the Indo-Nepal border in Nepal,” said a senior crime branch official. “But as Section 268 of the Code of Criminal Procedure — which does not allow the shifting of an accused — was imposed on them, we could not bring them here. Now, after two-and-a-half years, we have their custody.”
 
 
 According to crime branch sources, assistant commissioner of police, B C Solanki and inspector S L Chaudhary of the crime branch had flown to Delhi about five days ago to take the custody of Bhatkal and Haddi. “We got their custody late on Thursday night from Tihar Jail in Delhi,” the crime branch official said. According to the crime branch, Bhatkal was the key conspirator in the blasts along with Riyaz and Iqbal Bhatkal who are apparently in Pakistan at present.
 
 “Bhatkal had come to Ahmedabad in July 2008 and had stayed at a rented premises in Danilimda along with other accused. The bombs were made on the same premises,” a crime branch source said. A senior crime branch official said that it was Bhatkal who had made bombs to be planted in Ahmedabad and Surat. The official went on to add that Bhatkal wanted to experiment with timer chips in bombs to be planted in Surat while he used simple analogue clocks as timers in 20 bombs which exploded at 20 places in Ahmedabad, killing 56 and injuring more than 240.
 
 Crime branch officials said that Bhatkal, who is allegedly involved in more than 10 bomb blasts across the country, went technically wrong in making 29 bombs which were planted in Surat. The bombs did not explode.
 
 ‘Bada Sajid died fighting for IS’
 
 Senior crime branch officials confirmed that IM operative Bada Sajid had died while fighting for ISIS in Syria. “IM’s Indian commander Atif Amin and Chota Sajid were killed in an encounter with officials of the Delhi special cell at Batla house in Delhi,” a crime branch official said. “Another IM operative, Kali Siddiqui, is also believed to be dead.”
 
 ‘Bhatkal involved in Mumbai, Delhi blasts’ 
 
 A senior crime branch official said that after being sentenced to the gallows, along with four others, Bhatkal had confessed to cops of being involved in Mumbai train blasts and Sarojininagar blasts of Delhi. “However, we suspect that Bhatkal — sentenced to death in the Hyderabad blasts case of February 2013 — is trying to protect his accomplices by taking the blame,” a crime branch official said.
 
 Etymology of ‘Haddi’ 
 
 Crime branch sources said Ashadullah was nicknamed Haddi (Bone) because his father was bone-setter in Azamgarh, Uttar Pradesh. 
 
 
