CHENNAI: As agencies including the Enforcement Directorate ( ) and   ( ) turn up the heat on   for money laundering and possible terror links, a school in Chennai that the controversial Islamic preacher opened now faces the prospect of closing down in April, at the end of this academic year, due to a lack of funds.

 Officials of the   (IIS), Injambakkam, are hoping against hope that a minority trust will offer to take charge of the school’s finances and management.
 
 After the ED and NIA, which is probing possible links between Naik and Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (IS), put the controversial televangelist under the scanner in July 2016, his now-proscribed Islamic Research Foundation (IRF) detached itself from the 13-year old school and cut funding to the institution, IIS vice-principal Raadia Mukadam said.
 
 The school authorities have since then used students’ school fees for daily operations.
 
 “There are 80 children in classes from nursery to Class X,” Mukadam said. “Our priority is to ensure these children complete the academic year.”
 
 “If a minority institution or an NGO takes charge of the school, it will be a more secular institution,” he said. “We want to open our doors to teachers and students of all faiths.”
 
 But Muslim philanthropists and activists don’t think there will be any takers for a school under the government scanner. “I don’t think anyone will [want] to take over the school in these circumstances,” Manithaneya Makkal Katchi leader M H Jawahirullah said.
 
 IIS, on East Coast Road, follows the International General Certificate of Secondary Education developed by University of Cambridge, UK, officials said. The school gives 60% weightage to academics and 40% to learning Arabic and memorising the Quran.
 
 But students also have to learn English, Hindi, Urdu Tamil and Arabic. Other subjects include maths, physics, biology, chemistry, business studies and information & communications technology. Karate and swimming are part of the curriculum. The school has students from the US, UK, Dubai, Saudi Arabia, South Africa and across India.
 
 ED had last week attached assets of Naik’s Islamic Research Foundation (IRF) worth Rs18.37 crore. The school building, also on the list, is valued at Rs 7.05 crore.
 
 Indian security agencies started separate investigations of Naik’s activities after a suspect in an attack on a Dhaka café last July said the televangelist’s speeches inspired him.
 
 
