NAGPUR: It was a delightful experience for the dynamic editorial body of ‘School Buzz’ from  , which interacted with reporters and got to know how a newspaper works, on Monday.

 The editorial body was accompanied by the school principal, teachers and parents during its visit to TOI office on West High Court Road. The editors also received certificates from TOI on the occasion.
 
 The pattern of Buzz is such that is covers all aspects ranging from science to sports. It develops life skills, management techniques and coordination,” the students said.
 
 The activity has made students more responsible said, principal Zeenat Syed. She said, “They have become much more aware and inclined towards reading. They follow up   editions of all schools and admire their work. Having participated in School Buzz for the third time, I have seen tremendous improvement in kids with every passing year.”
 
 Children have got a platform to showcase their talent and express themselves, she said.
 
 The page coordinator and teacher Shreesha Nair said that every Monday, students are excited for School Buzz. She said, “The quality of writing is refined. Students are being transformed into leaders. I noticed a group of Std X students guiding their juniors. There was absolutely no dominance in their methods of directing. That is commendable.”
 
 “Students want to be associated with this activity every year,” Nair added.
 
 Assistant editor   learnt a lot from other’s point of view. He said, “Ideas coming from fellow schoolmates broadened my vision and helped me form an opinion. Conducting a survey indeed made me feel like an editor.”
 
 Ishita Saoji, who interviewed a small kid, realized that scooping out information is a tough challenge. She said, “We have to match a person’s thinking level while interviewing him. It needs skills, which I developed through Buzz.”
 
 Amit Sarkar, father of Smiti Sarkar, observed his daughter’s enhanced verbal skills. He said, “Smiti was an introvert, but has now started interacting more after School Buzz. She gained confidence and reads newspaper more often.”
 
 Priyanka Awasthi revealed that her daughter Saumya is thinking of a career in journalism now. She appreciated TOI’s efforts to provide an exposure to school kids.
 
 Sahil’s mother Anamika Choubey felt immensely proud to see her son’s picture in the paper. She said, “Our family friend called up on the day the edition was published. My happiness knew know bounds. Sahil is inspired to pursue a career in journalism.”
 
