PUDUCHERRY:   has slipped drastically in the national rankings from 13th rank in the academic year 2014-15 to 37th rank in 2015-16, as per the findings of the National institutional ranking framework (NIRF) released by the Union human resources development ministry on April 3.

 NIRF has broadly evolved five parameters – ‘Teaching, learning and resources’, ‘Research and professional practices’, ‘Graduation outcomes’, ‘Outreach and inclusivity’ and ‘Perception’ - to rank various universities and institutions in the country.
 
 Pondicherry University scored poorly in all the vital parameters, slipping to 37th position. The main parameter, ‘Teaching, learning and resources’ fell significantly from 70.64 in 2016 to a mere 44.07 in 2017 while other parameters ‘Research and professional practices’ fell from 79.93 in 2016 to 26.33 in 2017, ‘graduation outcomes’ from 97.9 in 2016 to 72.73 in 2017 and ‘perception’ from 80 in 2016 to 4.67 in 2017.
 
 A cross-section of academicians were of the opinion that vacancies of key positions like vice-chancellor, registrar, controller of examination, finance officer, three statutory posts of directors and deans for the last two years have led to the deterioration of academic standards and administrative and financial affairs in the university. 
 
 Presently, these key posts have been filled up on a temporary basis with Anisa B Khan as vice-chancellor in-charge, M Ramachandran as registrar in-charge, K Tharanikkarasu as controller of examination in-charge and Malabika Deo as finance officer in-charge, leading to an inordinate delay in the decision-making in academic, research, administrative and financial fronts.
 
 “Procuring teaching and learning resources have taken a backseat in the last two years. There was an inordinate delay in purchase of text books, e-contents, laboratory equipment, chemicals, consumables and glassware and other miscellaneous items required for academic and research activities. The university administration also failed to introduce innovative teaching methodologies,” said a professor on conditions of anonymity.
 
 Similarly the project cell, which assists the researchers and faculty members in establishing contact with the funding agencies like UGC, ICSSIR and DAE among other agencies has become defunct leading to sharp decline in the number of research projects undertaken. 
 
 The percentage of students passing out has also come down. “The rate of enrollment of students from other states, particularly girl students, came down drastically after the university administration failed to provide adequate hostel facilities and ensure safety of girl students in the campus,” said a faculty member.
 
 Only 337 students in the central university, which receives huge funds, got placement through campus interviews in 2015-16 while 253 students were selected for higher studies. There are roughly 4,000 students pursuing postgraduate, postgraduate integrated and PhD programmes in the university. Similarly only 215 of the total 1,136 publications (Web of science) were declared among the top 25% of the highly-cited papers and 336 publications of the total 1,474 publications (Scopus) were rated among the top 25% of cited papers.
 
 The image of the university was tarnished after being embroiled in a series of controversies including plagiarism charges against Chandra Krishnamurthy, who was sacked from vice-chancellor post by the Union HRD ministry and controversies over the university magazine, Widerstand’ for its reported anti-BJP content and legal tussles over the appointment of top posts including vice-chancellor and registrar leading to the overall perception, which was at 80 in 2014-15 hit a rock bottom of 4.67 in 2015-16. 
 
 The slip in ranking was yet another blow to the Pondicherry University, which was already declared as one of the 11 non-performing universities in the country. The University grants commission too has cut its funding by Rs 2 crore for 2016-17 for not following the rules and regulations in appointments, promotions, fixing pay scales and other academic and administrative matters as stipulated by the Union government.
 
 
