THANE: With an intention to be self equipped in the time of an emergency, the administration has plans to train local residents who could help alleviate the situation before help arrives at any of the distress calls in the city. 

 Volunteers from the high-rises as also working class boroughs would be identified and imparted training in emergency response and urgent rescue work in the event of any unforeseen disaster in the area, a civic bureaucrat said.
 
 The efforts, he claimed, were to build an extensive network of citizen volunteers who would partner with the administration and would be a great assistance to mitigate the risks in the initial period.
 
 The officials from the disaster management cell of the TMC will conduct workshops in the premises of the housing complexes to equip the volunteers with basic training on their response, communication with the authorities and small measures to deal with medical emergencies.
 
 The women folk will be informed on the dos and donts in a situation of a possible gas leaks, short circuits, slab collapses.
 
 Residents, especially, women, end up waiting to call the rescue teams or their relatives which often takes up time. The idea is to empower them with the skills to tackle such emergencies even before help arrives. However, with major roads blocked in the city due to several civic works going on, the response time to such disasters often is late. Such delays to attend rescue calls not only escalates the magnitude of the disaster at the spot but also causes considerable panic among local residents.
 
 An informative session was conducted by the disaster management cell and the fire brigade for residents of Runwal Plaza in Vartak Nagar last weekend wherein residents were given tips in handling disasters like gas leaks, short circuits, slab collapses etc.
 
 Officials attending such rescue calls say there needs to be basic sensitization about handling such incidents like what to use when there is a blaze. “The dousing mechanism for an electricity-related fire is different from one that is ignited due to a gas leak or a stray lighted matchstick and that is what needs to be ingrained in the residents. Also, certain restrictions like not using lifts during fire or switching off mains of gas lines needs to be imparted to residents which will be conveyed through interactive sessions,” said an official.
 
 “We want residents to volunteer in times of distress and ensure the panic is reduced at the site. We are appealing residents to reach us to arrange such informative sessions in their respective enclaves,” says Santosh Kadam, chief of the regional disaster management cell at Thane.
 
 Over 2,000 calls of disasters have been recorded till last month including short circuits, slab collapse, LPG gas leakages from various parts of the city. A cursory glance through rescue calls reveals that nearly 40 calls of short-circuit, 13 gas leakage, part of structure collapse, etc in residential colonies.
 
 
