NAGPUR: The Naxalites have come out openly in favour of their alleged think-thank and ideologue, former Delhi University professor GN Saibaba and five others (including Hem Mishra and Prashant Rahi), by announcing a Bharat bandh on March 29. Four were sentenced to life by the Gadchiroli sessions court on March 7 for anti-national activities while another got 10 years in jail.

 As a result, the security forces have kicked off their ‘strategic preparations’, including inter-state coordinations, after banners and pamphlets of Naxals pertaining to the anti-capitalist week (March 23-29) were spotted in south Gadchiroli’s Bhamragadh and Koti areas last week. The week commemorates the martyrdom of Bhagat Singh, Sukhdev and Rajguru and this time will end with a protest on the Saibaba issue.
 
 Following the conviction of Saibaba and others, the   front organizations have resorted to agitations in different cities with one being led by his wife SAI Vasanta in Delhi. Protests were organized at JNU too. The frontal organizations have been projecting Mishra as a cultural activist, and Saibaba as human and tribal right campaigner. 
 
 The security forces’ propaganda wings too have activated its machineries and are accusing Saibaba as the mastermind behind several sabotage and Naxal violence. They pinned the blame on Saibaba for 72 incidents which took place when he was out on bail. 
 
 The police have shown the involvement of the so-called human rights activists to many diabolical activities including kidnapping and murder of tribals, innocent civilians, arson and inflicting losses to the tune of several crores to government and private properties hindering development. 
 
 One of the issues for the strike is also to call for mass struggle to defeat the ‘operation green hunt’ launched to flush out the rebels from the hinterlands. The Naxalites have also reiterated their old demand of labelling the inmates of various jails, associated to their movement, as political prisoners. 
 
 Pointing out to the harsh conditions of the jails, the Naxalites have also raised the issue of their “comrades” being repeatedly arrested from the jail gates after getting bail as another key issue for the nationwide protest.
 
 Shivaji Bokde, the   operations (ANO), said the deployments of security forces would be done across the affected regions and key corridors would be plugged. “The supporters of the Naxalites would be under scanner,” he said. 
 
  said the rebels try to block roads by felling trees. “But we are geared to thwart them,” he said.
 
 
