Much before   became Gurugram, the first Gurugrammers arrived here, a clean, green place then, a short drive away from south Delhi. Some came from Delhi, some from far-off states. This was a growing tribe of professionals, moving to this Delhi suburb that was fast becoming a corporate hub and a melting pot of identities and culture. It would take a while before a new identity would get forged, a   identity that we see today. But what was it like in those early days? And who were the first Gurugrammers? In the eleventh part of our weekly series, TOI turns the spotlight on the early settlers 

  Mehra’s family was one of the first to be allotted a residential property in New Gurgaon. “My parents asked me not to waste my hard-earned money on paying rent in Delhi!” When he arrived here as a bachelor in 1991, Asim’s self-confessed “nest”, which he shared with two other friends, had a board outside proclaiming, ‘No entry without booze’. Not exactly Tarzan living, but close enough to the “jungle life”.   embraced the challenges of those early years, enthusiastically discovering Gurgaon anew all the time. 
 
 “The city felt like I was watching a baby grow every day.” His own children have grown up here, and, after initial reluctance, wife   found her comfort level. It’s been some journey (which Asim enjoyed reliving).
 
 
 
 
 Asim: It was the year 1991, when a huge nilgai crossed my path, in the wee hours of the morning. A little further, I could see a herd of deer. And when I reached my destination, I am greeted by a snake crossing the boundary wall. It was amazing, this wilderness – and this would be my home from now on.
 
 
 
 
 There were hardly any kirana shops. Whatever few there were had limited items and would charge a little extra. We happily paid, knowing the long drive back to habitation. There was one very good eating joint, a dhaba called Uma – excellent grub served with lots of love. We were one of the few regulars there. And apart from the buses of the DLF shuttle service, there was hardly any means of transport. The state buses had their own timings and would drop us at NH-8. So either your legs would carry you to your destination or some happy soul would do so, in whatever vehicle they had. This pushed me into buying a bike.
 
 
 
 
 Our friends never wanted to visit us. Their only reply would be, “Who wants to come so far to your farmhouse?” Today, nobody misses a chance to be here. Back then, the most common visitors were snakes, deer, scorpions, wild buffalo, jackals, peacocks, mongoose, and lots of bats at night — and spotting leopards wasn’t very rare.
 
 
 
 
 My parents didn’t have any problem adjusting, probably because in the past they had lived in places like these — dad was stationed in the remotest of places in Andhra Pradesh and Maharashtra (moreover, what you cook yourself tastes the best!). This was the first property they bought, and they loved it.
 
 
 
 
 Priya would only accept my marriage proposal on condition that I shift to Delhi. I accepted all her demands other than this. But my powers of persuasion worked!. Still, those early weeks and months were difficult for her. There were days at a time without electricity or water supply — and nights filled with the howl of a wolf.
 
 
 
 
 My daughter would have seen more deer than cows, amongst children of her age. We stayed in DLF-I till 2005, when we moved to another remote place for more adventures — to Orchid Garden, in Sector 54, almost at the fag-end of New Gurgaon.
 
 Today, we dwell in a place within reach of the lush green ranges of the Aravalis. We go for walks with our children to the rocky hills, and still sometimes catch sight of what was once so regular to my eyes — nilgai, jackals, peacocks, deer, snakes, etc.
 
 From ‘urban village’ to Millennium City
 
 Years passed, and I could see a small suburb growing into a city which people all over India would talk about. Who would ever have guessed that an urban village would blossom into one of the best cities of the country?
 
 Undoubtedly, the journey from Gurgaon to Gurugram has been full of adventure, anecdotes and memories.
 
 
