NEW DELHI: Epicuria at the Nehru Place   station was the only true   hub on the Delhi Metro that recalled the sprawling dining areas at railway station across the world, such as at Kyoto Station in Japan and Breeze Station in Taipei. After smaller variants with a few stalls were replicated at some stations,   station has become the latest full-fledged food destination. Palate of Delhi, or POD, recently opened at the metro station and can seat 275 people. There 14 outlets of popular Indian and international fast food and quick-serving chains, parking for 300 cars in the basement and plans to add more restaurants soon.

 Jaideep Bhandari, the brain behind the venture, said food hubs at railways stations are popular across the globe and it was time Delhi got such a dining sprawl. “Dhaula Kuan, Chanakyapuri and Satya Niketan have a large young population but few quality dining options that are affordable,” said Bhandari. “We wanted to provide a dining experience that was a notch above the usual canteen or food court.”
 
 After an agreement with   in May last year, the space for POD was readied by December. Though the restaurant areas are still under construction, the food court has started attracting almost 500 diners every day. Bhandari said commuters on the Airport Express Line, South Campus students and people driving past Dhaula Kuan and looking for a quick bite have been the pioneering customers.
 
 With DMRC working on a travelator to connect Dhaula Kuan and South Campus stations, Bhandari calculates that almost 2,000 people will be able to frequent POD every day after it becomes fully operational.
 
 The current food court is easily accessible from the main road, with a side road allowing entry from behind the station. It has five spaces called Work Pods, which are brightly illuminated dining areas with the establishment’s name cleverly syncing with the term for work stations in corporate culture. The pod walls bear graffiti of famous personalities.
 
 Since the food hub is expected to run there for the next two decades, Bhandari felt it was important not to cut corners. “We realised the need to provide a truly global ambience to sustain and run Palate of Delhi,” he said. “So we roped in architects and artists who have previously worked on projects to create world class spaces.”
 
