On Wednesday, Delhiites got a chance to witness the hidden talents of the paramilitary forces. The third phase of Oorja CAPFs Under 19 Football Talent Hunt Tournament 2017 kicked off in the city with a match between the girls' team of Maharashtra and Manipur. Apart from the players, the jawans of BSF and CRPF also showed off their bhangra and musical skills. But it was the Sashastra Seema Bal’s dog squad that stole the show with its football and basketball matches. While in the football match, the four-legged soldiers pulled off cool headbutts, in the basketball match, the players needed a lot of cajoling to let go of the ball and score a basket! The third phase of Oorja will see 12 matches being played by the state teams.

 
  
  
 
 
  
 Sports minister  , the chief guest at the event, also tried playing some football. "I am a basketball player, but these days, I am learning football because wherever I go for the Oorja event, I have to kick the ball," he said.
 
  Remember Alia Bhatt's character in ' '? She is a hockey player who works in a brick kiln to fulfil her dreams. The players in this tournament also have similar, inspiring backgrounds. Renuka Mishra, the organiser of the Oorja Talent Hunt, told us, "Finding football talent in a span of just six months was a difficult task, but with the cooperation of the forces, we were able to find talents in areas we didn’t expect. There is a girl in the Punjab team who works in a brick kiln and saves money to play football. We also met a football coach in Varanasi who used his own land to create a football field and now gives football coaching to children for free. There were so many inspiring stories, so much passion for football that we were in surprised."
 
  
  TO LET GO OR NOT TO LET GO: This player is having second thoughts about scoring a basket - is it worth giving up the ball? (BCCL/ Ranjit Kumar)
 
  
 The jawans of   (BSF) also cheered the girls' team from Maharashtra and Manipur by doing some bhangra right before their match. LM Sharma, a school teacher who came to watch the match, told us, "I have seen BSF jawans doing Bhangra in movies, but it was for the first time when I saw them doing it in real." Another hit among the audience was the SSB’s dog squad showing off their basketball and football skills, which they especially trained for, before the opening ceremony.
 
  
  RR Bhatnagar, DG, CRPF
 
 
  After the game, the friendly dogs also showed their daredevilry by jumping across fire-lit rings like it was just another task! Shubhasish Singh, a college student said, "We came to see the football match, but this was a bonus. I was really impressed with the basketball and football skills of the dogs and how one dog wasn’t ready to let go of the ball and the others surrounded him to snatch it away."
 
  
  Sushil Kumar
 
 
 
 
  
  Sports minister Vijay Goel meeting the players of the two teams
 
 
 
  
  SOME BHANGRA-SHANGRA: BSF jawans cheering teams from Maharashtra and Manipur before their match (BCCL)
 
 
  
  PAWSITIVELY INTO THE GAME: SSB's dog squad showing off their sport skills
 
 
 
  
  THE BALL'S MINE! Players from the Maharashtra and Manipur team during a match
 
 
 
  
  The Oorja mascot
 
 
 
