CHANDIGARH/GURGAON: The man who sang in praise of Narendra Modi and earned his place in the inner circle of chief minister   was ousted from the Haryana CM’s office on Saturday, days after his public remarks about “large-scale corruption” at the state’s golden jubilee fest in Gurgaon last November. 

 Jai Bhagwan (Rocky) Mittal, who sang the Modi Amritwani during the Lok Sabha and general elections in 2014, was one of the lead singers at the function in Gurgaon that marked the launch of the state’s golden Jubilee celebrations and was also attended by the PM. Mitta was appointed publicity   to   last September.
 
 “Haryana government has dispensed with the services of Mr Jai Bhagwan Mittal alias   as publicity adviser (audio/visual) and to assist the government with Swaran Jayanti celebrations, with immediate effect,” read the order released by the state government on Saturday afternoon.
 
 In Gurgaon last Thursday, Mittal had claimed a senior IAS officer who was in charge of organising the golden jubilee celebrations, gave contracts to people known to him. “Over Rs 11 crore was splurged on organising the event. This event could have been organised in less than Rs 6 crore,” he had said.
 
 Mittal had also claimed Khattar was being misled by some senior IAS officers and they were not allowing him to take the right decisions. “A list of corrupt officials is being prepared by the state information and public relations department,” he had said. 
 
 Sources told TOI the state’s senior BJP leadership took note of his comments and slapped a show-cause notice on Mittal. “The BJP leadership in Haryana summoned Mittal and asked him why he was issuing such baseless statements and that, too, against his own government. It is believed the CM also met him and sought an explanation, after which it was decided to remove him from the post of publicity adviser,” a source said.
 
 The opposition claimed Mittal was sacked as he tried to expose corruption in the BJP government. “Corruption is there at all levels in the government and whoever tries to expose it will be shown the door,” said Karan Singh Dalal, Congress MLA from Palwal. “Removing him from his post alone will not do. It has to probed how he managed to get a red beacon-fitted vehicle. A corruption case should also be lodged against him and all others who were involved in this,” he added.
 
 Mittal was using a red beacon-fitted vehicle when he came to Gurgaon last Thursday. Asked why, he had said he did not know he wasn’t entitled to one.
 
 A senior official in the CMO said, “The government has zero tolerance for such persons. He had been part of the government as well as the CMO. If there was any issue, he should have had brought it up at the organization level or the government level or with the vigilance or intelligence wing. Secondly, you are indulging in wrongdoing especially at the time when government is on a mission of clean governance.‘’
 
 Despite repeated attempts, Mittal remained inaccessible and the messages sent to his number and social media accounts remained unanswered.
 
 
