Panaji:   approaches the Fifa U-17 World Cup with a bittersweet feeling.
 
  The goalkeeping coach of the Indian team is “super excited” that he is part of the coaching staff for the biggest football tournament in the subcontinent, and probably a defining moment in the history of Indian football. But with no Goan player for company, he remains the odd one out.
  
  “If we had Goan players in the team, it would have been great,” said Aguiar, who has been part of the Indian coaching staff for more than four years.
  
  A former goalkeeper of repute who donned colours for big clubs in Goa like Dempo Sports Club,   and Churchill Brothers, the Divar-based coach was happily bidding away his time at the Sports Authority of Goa (SAG) where he was employed as coach. But a chance recommendation five years ago brought him face to face with the then U-16 coach Colin Toal, and, like they say, the rest is history.
  
  “I worked with Toal for about a month and half, and he liked my work,” remembered Aguiar.
  
  Toal, also India’s technical director then, asked Aguiar to join the coaching staff, but there was a slight hitch, even though he was more than willing. He was still employed with the SAG as coach and needed special permission – leave rather – to take up the new assignment.
  
  “I was granted four-years leave by the government to join the All India Football Federation (AIFF). It’s been a memorable journey,” said Aguiar, who only recently celebrated his 50th birthday.
  
  The memorable journey could have been so easily cut short, and tragically before the Fifa U-17 World Cup. Aguiar’s four year leave ended late last year and he needed special permission from the government to continue with AIFF till October 31, three days after the conclusion of the historic World Cup.
  
  “Once the World Cup ends, I will have to re-join the SAG. The AIFF may want to continue with my services even beyond the World Cup which will then leave me with a choice to make,” said Aguiar, who will have to quit his ‘secure’ government job and take a plunge into the unpredictable world of professional football.
  
  For now, though, that’s the last thing on his mind.
  
  “It’s a big achievement to be coaching the team at the highest level in this age-group. But the challenge is also huge. Everyone knows how difficult it is for goalkeepers; one mistake and they are crucified,” he said.
  
  Aguiar has been a pretty good goalkeeper himself and can relate to those under the horizontal bar quite easily. Players like Dheeraj Singh, Mohammad Nawaz and Tamal Naskar has hugely benefitted since being part of the World Cup squad, while others like Prabsukhan Gill and Canada-based Sunny Dhaliwal, who joined the squad more recently, are also certain to reap the benefits.
  
  Once the World Cup ends, Aguiar will be left at the crossroads. But for now, he can’t afford to take his eyes off the ‘goal’.
