ALLAHABAD: The Allahabad   on Monday asked the UP DGP to suggest the name of the best investigating officer in the state to whom probe into SHIATS assault case may be transferred.

 Hearing a petition filed by  , a security officer of SHIATS, a division bench comprising Chief Justice   and Justice   again directed the police to place before it a list of all criminal cases pending against   and other accused, details of offences and case crime number along with provisions of law under which FIRs have been filed against them by the next date of hearing on February 15.
 
 Former parliamentarian Atiq Ahmad is one of the accused in SHIATS attack case.
 
 It was alleged in the petition that police were not investigating the case properly. Moreover, the petitioner had approached the district authorities to provide security to him but nothing was done.
 
 During hearing on Monday, the investigating officer (IO) informed the court that so far two accused in this case were arrested while notices were sent to others to appear before the police under section 160 of CrPC. 
 
 Taking serious note of the statement, the court said that the IO is not capable enough to investigate the matter as he did nothing except for sending notices to the accused under section 160 CrPC, which empowers police to ensure attendance of witnesses and not accused.
 
 On December 14, Atiq Ahmad, along with his henchmen, allegedly barged into the compound of Sam Higginbottom Institute of Agriculture, Technology and Sciences (SHIATS) in   of Allahabad and assaulted the staff and management officials of the institute for debarring two students from examination for using unfair means.
 
 On February 10, the high court had summoned criminal history of Atiq Ahmad and also directed SP Allahabad to arrest all the accused in the case. 
 
 Following the order, the police arrested Atiq Ahmad on February 11. He was produced before the remand magistrate, who remanded him to 14 days judicial custody and he was sent to jail. 
 
 The next hearing on remand matter will be held on February 25.
 
