This may seem like a scene straight out of a film inspired by  . But look closer and you will meet a group of Pune’s IT engineers who get together for   sessions on most weekends. Quiz them on this and they say it is their form of poetry — a way to express themselves. 

 Paras Mehta, an IT engineer and one of the key members of the group reveals, “We usually jam on weekends between 3 pm and 7 pm. Sometimes we decide to spend the night at Ravet bridge at Akurdi and jam the night away. We have boombox and mic to help us with the beat and cypher. Our in-house beat producers often do live beat cyphers.” 
 Paras, who moved to Pune a couple of years ago adds, “Some of my friends got together and we took to social media to connect with other like-minded artistes. The community that first started with just two members now has more than 30 artistes.”
 
 The community which has engineers, IT professionals and students have christened themselves as Pune Hip Hop Renaissance. They get together and   about current affairs, social and cultural issues. What sets these city- based rappers apart, is their pursuit for originality, and an eagerness to create a clean, slang-free identity. “Rap is all about consciousness and self-expression. It’s about bringing out the rebel in you. It’s a misconceived notion that rapping is about slang and racism,” says Ajay Ghone, a founding member of the group, and a  .
 
 
 The members are cautious and ensure they do not use cuss words. They believe that rapping is about aggression, but by using witty lyrics. “A year ago, I did not have a job, so my lyrics were about my struggles with life. Now I write about the glory, making the best of my life and the consequences of repression. I use a lot of metaphors and similes in my lyrics to keep them flowing. We want people to respect our art and try to come up with interesting subjects so that people can relate to it,” says Ajay. 
 
  
  
 
 According to Ajay, the perfect battle is when you can defeat the opponents with clever lyrics. “I mostly use words that have multiple meanings,” he adds.
 Paras who raps in Hindi, English and Gujarati says he jots down verses whenever they come to his mind. “I was once sitting in an exam hall, and all I could think of was composing a song. The urge was so strong that I started writing down the lyrics behind the question paper,” he recalls. The group which is active and wants to create ripples in the city says, “Hip Hop allows us to speak our mind and describe what we see around us. This is something that neither indie nor Bollywood has managed to do.”
 
 
 
 Battle rap remains a relatively new term for the commercial audience. “Mumbai is the capital of hip hop, and Pune is still warming up to the idea of this culture. People are more inclined towards pop and rock music, but I am confident that we are heading in the right direction,” Paras adds. Right now, their focus is on bringing a hip-hop revolution in the city.
 
