Today, Mumbaikars will witness the Republic Day parade in all its glory at the iconic   and like every year, there will be flag-hoisting ceremonies held across numerous landmarks, educational institutions and housing societies. But that’s not all, there’s more that the city’s offering to make the occasion special. Here’s a lowdown...
set out on a historic clue hunt...
 
 Put on your thinking cap and head to a Republic Day-themed clue hunt. All you need to do is brush up on your history lessons before going on one of these excursions. Says Craig Fonseca, an organiser of one such hunt, “The treasure hunt will have questions and puzzles, which will be based on India’s freedom struggle. Participants have to meet at one place in the city, where they will be handed clues. As they solve them one by one, it will take them on a historic journey across landmarks and monuments, which have significance in India’s Independence Movement. These include places like the famous café in Kala Ghoda where Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar wrote the Constitution or the Gateway of India in  , a monument from where the last British troops sailed out in 1948.” The hunts can last anytime between two to three hours. What’s interesting is that these won’t just test your clue-solving abilities, but will also help you learn a lot about our freedom movement.
 
 
 From midnight onwards till the weekend, you can celebrate the day by going on a two-wheeler trail. Various cycling and motorbiking groups are encouraging people to join them on a ride from one end of Mumbai to another. Akshay Thakker, the co-founder of a cycling trail, shares that you don’t even need to own a two-wheeler; all you have to do is register and you will be provided with a cycle. “People from Mumbai and even Pune are joining in on this special trail. We have a dress code — all white — and have to ensure that the National Flag is on the cycle. Some trails start at midnight from   and halt at different places before they reach their destination. During the halts, we huddle around and have music sessions, where we sing patriotic songs.” 
 
 You can do the same with motorbikes. Sushil Kulkarni, a member of the group, which entered the Guinness Book of World Records last year for having more than 800 bikers attending the Republic Day trail, said, “This time, we are starting from  . The trail will last upto 13 km, at the end of which we will hoist the flag at the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation. Minimum riding gear (helmet and jacket) is mandatory.” Most of these groups have various themes — from paying tributes to soldiers at the border, to taking up more civic causes like wearing helmets while riding. 
 
 
 Every year, after flag hoisting ceremonies, the streets of Mumbai are strewn with tiny paper flags. Most often, these discarded tricolours land up in the garbage. Many schools have student groups who go out on the streets in the evening and pick them up, so that they can dispose them properly. This year, there are several groups with whom you can volunteer to collect these forgotten flags. Sharmeen Zaveri, whose NGO is organising one such march from  , says, “Anyone can join in, as this is a free activity. From railway stations and markets to streets outside schools, colleges and government offices, we choose locations where we know there will be many cast-off flags. The number of flags usually vary between 200 and 300. Apart from keeping the streets clean, our main aim is to sensitise citizens and make them more respectful towards the tricolour.”
 
 
 If you’re an animal lover, head to Marine Drive, where a city-based shelter is going to hold a demonstration for animal rights. Attendees will form a human and pet chain! Animal parents can share their experiences and issues faced by them, so that they can spread the message to bring amendments in the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act in order to make offences under it non-bailable.
 
 
 After the grand parade was held last year at Marine Drive, this year, the ceremony will take place at its original destination — Shivaji Park. You can watch it live on the bypass road, as soldiers march through checkpoints in the city. Maharashtra CM Devendra Fadnavis, the Ministry of Defence and many   personalities will be a part of it. Apart from an interesting show of vintage cars, there will also be a Maharashtra cultural festival.
 
 
