NEW DELHI: A meeting called by the SC-mandated Environment Pollution Control Authority on a countrywide rollout of BS-IV norms by April 1 saw plenty of fireworks on Friday with the   raising the issue of inventory of non-BS-IV vehicles.

 SIAM claimed it has an expected pending inventory of about 7.5 lakh two-wheelers, 75,000 commercial vehicles (trucks and buses), 45,000 three-wheelers and 20,000 passenger vehicles as on April 1, 2017.  , at a meeting held in October 2016, had directed that vehicle manufacturers exhaust their stock of non-BS-IV vehicles before April 1.
 
 SIAM’s executive director KK Gandhi (technical), however, on Friday said: “It’s impossible for us to meet this April 1 deadline because of market forces and the impact of demonetisation. We cannot do anything about the pending inventory. The IIT-Kanpur’s emissions inventory shows diesel vehicles are responsible for only 2% of emissions.”
 
 Gandhi added that the “law of the land says that the industry will manufacture only BS-IV-compliant vehicles April 1, 2017, onwards; you (EPCA) changed the rule in October.” He was referring to an August 19, 2015, notification of the ministry of transport, which mainly said that only BS-IV-compliant vehicles will be manufactured from April 1, but didn’t comment on whether the registration of non-BS-IV vehicles would be allowed after that. Gandhi said the pending vehicles would have to be “scrapped” if EPCA didn’t allow them to be sold. EPCA responded by saying that the industry was eyeing a “scrappage policy” to boost sales.
 
 EPCA once again directed NCR governments to ensure that no non-BS-IV vehicle be allowed to be registered from April 1.
 
 “You have 75,000 trucks left. This is unacceptable. Do you know that moving to BS-IV can give us a reduction of 80% in PM emissions from these vehicles? You should have ramped down production since you were told in advance. Is EPCA now going to stand for automobile manufacturers’ profits?” asked Sunita Narain, a member of EPCA. Bhure Lal, head of  , said: “We gave you six months’ notice. That’s substantial.”
 
 A Delhi government official who was at the meeting claimed the transport department had tried to procure 4,000 “clean buses” but manufacturers had, instead, suggested that they buy BS-III buses. “They had placed tenders for DTC buses but there were issues with rates. I think they wanted the buses at the same rates as the previous order. The commercial negotiation didn’t work out,” Gandhi later told reporters.
 
 EPCA members said at the current rate of sales, manufacturers can sell their 20,000 passenger vehicles and 7.5 lakh two-wheelers in a month or so. But for three-wheelers and commercial vehicles, EPCA will hold a meeting with manufacturers to discuss the breakup of pending inventory.
 
 Under section 5 of the environment protection Act, EPCA has the powers to issue orders on violation of various environmental standards. Incidentally, Vishnu Mathur, Director General of SIAM is also a member of EPCA.
 
 
