Nagpur: In order to simplify the process of applying online for learning and permanent driving licence, the city RTO will now only accept fees through debit or credit cards and net banking. Confirming this, Nagpur city RTO Sharad Jichkar told TOI that this became possible after all RTOs in Maharashtra implemented the new software Sarathi 4.0, which is the state transport department’s initiative to make the process transparent and citizen-friendly. Jichkar said the department has introduced complete cashless service in leaners’ licence and permanent licence section. “We have stopped accepting fees manually,” the RTO said.  However, the new system may present some problems for those who either don’t possess ATM cards or do not have net banking facility. Many applicants — especially from economically poor backgrounds — complained about the online payment system. “I don’t have a bank account, so I could not appear for the learner’s licence test,” said Atul Kolarkar (name changed). A similar story was narrated by many applicants. However, a few of them approached the touts openly operating from inside the RTO premises, as they were providing the service of online payments for both PDL and LL. TOI found that the touts too have upgraded their systems to extend online payment services too. “For this purpose, we charge between Rs200 and Rs500,” admitted one of the agents on the RTO premises in Giripeth. A senior RTO official told TOI, “We were getting regular complaints from people that they are facing problems in paying the fees online as they did not have ATM cards or are not able to make payments using net banking.” There were demands to make the online or netbanking payment optional, and many applicants also pointed out that the other regional transport offices — deputy RTO east and rural office — have not made it mandatory.  Jichkar, however, claimed that introduction of the new system has not affected working atmosphere in the office. The compulsory online payment system was launched on July 10. Under the new system, until Monday (July 17), RTO has received online payment from 2,422 applicants for both permanent and learner’s licence tests, while it has issued 558 and 430 permanent and learners’ licences in seven days, an RTO official said. Jichkar said soon all cash counters in the office will be closed and only online payments will be accepted. This will definitely eradicate agents from the office, he said.