MADURAI: Nine tourists including five women and three children who were having a joyride on a   after it was caught in tidal waves and capsized near Manapad shore in   district on Sunday. Fishermen managed to pull out 20 people who were drowning in the sea but nine of them died later. Search is on for two or three more people who were believed to have been on the boat.

 Around 5.30 pm, a group of tourists visiting Manapad beach undertook a trip on a fibre fishing boat belonging to local fishermen. They had come to the beach after attending a temple festival nearby. It was customary of tourists visiting the coast to persuade local fishermen to take them out on a pleasure trip in the sea. Though fishing boats are not allowed to undertake joyrides, the practice has been continuing on the sly resulting in accidents and loss of lives.
 
 Shortly after the group left in a fibre boat, the boat was caught in a tidal wave and capsized. Though local fishermen rushed in on their boats after hearing the screams of tourists, many drowned. The fishermen managed to pull out 20 people of which nine succumbed later. Local fishermen along with marine police and fire & rescue department personnel are on a search mission.
 
 W Prathiban, a fisherman and former councilor from Manapad, said that the accident occurred very near to the shore but the fishermen could not reach the spot at once. “There are sand dunes in between and it took some time for us to reach the spot and rescue the drowning tourists. There were fishing nets in the boat as well and some got caught in them and drowned”, he said.
 
 Prathiban said that using fibre boats for joy rides was banned by authorities but tourists visiting the beach insisted on taking out a ride without realising the danger. “We have also warned our fishermen not to take them into sea but they give in after tourists persuade them”, he quipped.
 
 District collector M Ravikumar visited the Tiruchendur government hospital and consoled the survivors and relatives of those who passed away. At the accident spot at Manapad, he said that fishing boats were not meant for tourism purposes. "It is a clear violation of rules and the boat owner will be penalised for taking tourists inside the sea," he said. Tuticorin superintendent of police Ashwin M Kotnis said that they suspected that 22 to 23 people might have gone on the joy ride. Preliminary investigation revealed that the victims belonged to three families and one from Trichy. Others were natives of Tattarmadam in Tuticorin district but settled in Madurai, he said.
 
 The victims pulled out of sea were taken to Tiruchendur government hospital and police and officials are trying to identify the dead bodies. The injured are being treated at the government hospital and private hospitals nearby. The police have requested the coast guard to deploy a vessel for rescue operations which was expected to join rescue operations later in the night.
 
 Among the victims, the woman from Trichy was the wife of a BHEL employee. Karthik, working at stores department in BHEL, had gone there along with his wife and a son. He lost his wife in the tragedy. 
 
 
