PUNE: Bruised and battered, but not broken. This perfectly sums up the state of the   in  , which has managed to complete   on 92% of the normal   despite all the hardships since the   

 Till December 23 this year, the rabi sowing in the state had crossed the 50.21 lakh hectare-mark, which was significantly high than the 44.55 lakh hectare area cultivated till December 21 last year. This feat, however, did not come easy. 
 
 After a good monsoon this year, things were looking up for the farming community in the state. However, the demonetisation announcement poured cold water on this optimism, leaving the entire community to fend for itself with hardly any cash in hand.
 
 Farmers TOI spoke to said when push came to shove, they had no option but to borrow money or pawn jewellery to buy seeds. Some even resorted to higher credit amounts to buy the essentials to complete the sowing. 
 
 Purushottam Mangte Patil, who owns a 16-acre farm and is the head of a farmers' group in Balapur taluka of Akola, said, "We had to complete the sowing irrespective of the cash crunch. Some farmers borrowed money for seeds and other requirements, while others took refuge in higher credit amounts to finish the sowing. Cash is still in short supply as the harvested crop is selling at throwaway prices in the markets," he said.
 
 Patil said before the cash crunch, he would sell a quintal of soyabeans and some other pulses at Rs 2,800 against the prevailing rate of Rs 2,000 to Rs 2,400. "Also, we get the amount in cheque, which takes another eight days to encash at cooperative banks in villages. Even after the encashment, we can withdraw only paltry amount from our bank accounts," he added.
 
 Mahesh Shelke, a farmer with over two-acre farm in Narayangaon, Junnar, said, "Some farmers pawned jewellery to arrange money for seeds and other necessities, while others used the seeds that they had saved from the earlier produce. Sowing has been better than last year due to the good rainfall. But problems unleashed by the demonetisation move continue as harvested crops are increasingly being sold by farmers at lesser rates."
 
 In a huge contrast, officials from the state agriculture department tried to paint a rosy picture, claiming that the effects of the demonetisation on sowing have dissipated. "Besides buying seeds on credit basis, many farmers also use 60% of their own seeds and get the remaining from merchants. Hence, the demonetisation move has not impacted the rabi sowing," an official from department said.
 
 The normal area for rabi crops in state over 54 lakh hectare. Though the pace of rabi sowing has increased over the last 50 days, the area sown this year is still less than normal. 
 
 Another official from department said rabi sowing this year has still been better than the last year, when drought conditions had affected sowing.
 
 
