Puducherry: The   and family welfare ministry has directed all States and   to hold second round of counselling for admission to all   and   in government and   and   between May 11 and 20.

 Under secretary (health and family welfare) Pradip Kumar Pal in a circular dated May 11 to all the principal secretaries of states and Union territories said the directorate general of health services has completed the first and second phase of all India counselling and allotted postgraduate medical and dental seats. 
 
 The directorate will revert vacant seats, if any, to the states and Union territories after May 9 as the Supreme Court has not granted approved to hold third round of counselling.
 
 Pal directed the States and Union territories to hold the second round combined counselling between May 11 and 20. The last date of joining for the second round is May 27. However the last date of admission is May 31, he said.
 
 In case any seats are lying vacant after second round of State/UT counselling, a mop up round of combined counselling must be held to ensure that all postgraduate seats are filled before May 31, he said.
 
 The Centralized admission committee (Centac) of Union territory of Puducherry conducted the first phase of counselling from May 4, which was stopped abruptly citing ‘court orders’. Thirty-eight candidates were offered seats under   in private institutions and three candidates in the lone government medical college on May 4. The committee resumed the first phase of counselling on May 11 during which 35 students were offered seats under government quota.
 
 The committee conducted the first phase of counselling for admission under management quota from 11am on May 11 and on May 12. Forty-one students were allotted seats under management quota on May 11 and 76 students on May 12. Eighty-six seats under government quota and 39 seats under management quota are lying vacant in three private medical colleges and four deemed universities in the Union territory.
 
 Meanwhile Pondicherry state students’ and parents’ welfare association president V Balasubramanian and a section of students, who were allotted postgraduate medical seats under government quota in private institutions, submitted memorandums to lt governor Kiran Bedi, chief minister V Narayanasamy, Union health and family welfare ministry and Medical council of India urging them to ensure their admission at the private institutions. 
 
 They charged that the private institutions has demanded exorbitant fees to admit them. The fees committee has not fixed the fees for postgraduate medical programmes in the Union territory.
 
 The students also urged the government to ensure filling up of the vacant 86 seats under government quota in private institutions. 
 
 It might be recalled that the Union ministry directed all States and Union territories to hold combined counselling through designated authority for admission to all postgraduate medical and dental courses in all medical and dental colleges in the States and Union territories including private colleges and deemed universities from the academic year 2017-18. This is the first time a combined counselling for all postgraduate medical and dental courses is being conducted by the respective States and Union territories.
 
