MUMBAI: The top domestic players of the country, as expected, called for the discontinuation of neutral venues for   when they met at the Board of Control for Cricket in India's ( ) captains-cum-coaches conclave here on Tuesday.

 A majority of players at the conclave want the return of the home-and-away system, which was done away with last year to prevent tampering of wickets. "Most players complained about how it involved too much travelling. It was also pointed out that there was zero local interest in neutral games, in both the media and the public, which denied the Ranji players much-needed publicity," said a board official.
 
 "There were views supporting both formats. Instead of making a calculation of how many people were on which side, the points made to substantiate a certain position have been collated and will be brought to the working committee and the general body," BCCI's acting secretary Amitabh Chaudhary told the media. Even as issues were hotly debated,  , the head of the technical committee of BCCI, was conspicuous by his absence.
 
 While the likes of  ,  ,  ,  ,   and Pankaj Singh put forth their views on the functioning of domestic cricket, Ganguly was missing in action. Amongst the board officials present were acting president CK Khanna, Chaudhary and game development managers Ratnakar Shetty and MV Sridhar. The Committee of Administrators (COA) was represented by Ramchandra Guha.
 
 "It would've helped if Sourav was there, as he would've listened to the issues the players face first-hand. As a technical committee head, it's important for him to get a direct feedback from the players. He could've joined the meeting via skype," a top BCCI official told TOI.
 
 Incidentally, Ganguly is also the president of the Cricket Association of Bengal (CAB). It couldn't be confirmed if the 44-year-old had already informed about his inability to attend this meeting. Suggestions from the conclave are forwarded to the technical committee, which discusses them before tabling it in the board's working committee, which takes the final call.
 
 
 
 
 The issue of raising the match fees of Ranji players, which was brought up by veteran off-spinner   in a letter to India coach  , was also raised at the conclave. Currently, the players receive Rs 90,000 per match in the Ranji Trophy, which means they can earn up to Rs 6 lakh during a season (lasting five-six months).
 
 In comparison, many players earn crores by playing for 45 days in the IPL. It was pointed out that domestic players in Australia and England earn substantially more, enough to make a living out of playing at the domestic level.
 
 
 
 
 The standard of umpiring which has been poor throughout the domestic season, including the IPL, was heavily criticised by the players. While leading Gujarat in the Irani Cup, Parthiv Patel had lamented about the same set of umpires who were making mistakes continuously, coming back to officiate in important domestic games.
 
 It remains to be seen what the board, which has stoutly defended its umpires in the past, does to improve the situation. "We had discontinued the practice of the captains giving their report on the umpires because then, the losing captain would mostly give a bad rating to the officials. But we may have to revive it now," said an official.
 
