HYDERABAD: Describing   as an assault on the people, former Union finance minister   on Sunday said the move failed to serve its objectives, starting from eradicating black money, fake currency and putting an end to corruption or terrorist funding.

 “Centre demonetised 2,400 crore notes. The capacity of all four printing facilities, if they work round-the-clock for every month is 300 crore. So, to print 2,400 crore notes it will take eight months," he said.
 
 Summing up the Nov 8 move as a case of 'khoda pahar, nikli chuhiya' (much ado about nothing), he said that Modi government's move from demonetisation to 'remonetisation' was not `notebandi' but 'notebadli'. “I think it's a terrible decision, illconceived, terribly implemented, with horrendous consequences. I think this would have been foretold by anyone who knows about money and monetary policy if Prime Minister   had bothered to consult,“ he said, adding that no major country has demonetised its currency in the last 50 years."
 
 To kill black money or corruption, the government has to kill the demand, not the currency, the former FM said during the second anniversary celebrations of a leading Telugu daily in the city. If you look at the new notes is it written anywhere that they are not valid for giving bribe?" Chidambaram quipped, adding, “The person taking bribe in old notes will now do so in the new currency." “Everyday, crores of people have been forced to stand in queues to take out their own money. Thousands of farmers have been affected, every commodity price crashed. There are 45 crore people in this country who depend on daily income,“ he said, adding that Centre's Nov 8 move to ban 1,000 and 500 notes inflicted misery on the common people of this country.
 
 Citing seizure of new notes across the country, he asked, “How did the new 2,000 bundles reach wrong hands? How did they get the new currency notes? It is the biggest scam of 2016. Ordinary people could not get their own money." Referring to the initial support that the PM received, he said that he was willing to concede that a very large proportion of the people still would like to believe that demonetisation would work but everyone, within the next four months, would come face to face with reality.
 
 Further explaining his stand against demonetisation, he said: “80 per cent transactions in Germany and Austria is cash-based, in Australia it is 60 per cent, Canada 56 per cent and US 46 per cent and PM Modi says India will go 100 per cent cashless!"
 
