SECUNDERABAD: Water woes of the Secunderabad Cantonment residents may soon be a thing of the past with the government mulling constituting a committee to conduct a detailed study of area’s water supply and   as well as prepare proposals for providing alternate water supply.

 This assurance was give by cinematography minister Talasani Srinivasa Rao, who along with excise minister T Padma Rao attended a high level meeting convened by the   (SCB) on Monday to resolve the ongoing water crisis. 
 
 Officials of Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply & Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB), SCB water wing and eight SCB ward members also attended the meeting. The minister said the committee, which will comprise officials from HMWS&SB, SCB and ward members, will have to submit its report within a month of being formed. He also assured the residents that they would take the matter up with MA&UD minister  .
 
 “We discussed issues like the need to increase the water supply as the number of connections have gone up from 15,000 to 30,000, implementation of water tariff on par with what is charged by   and improvement of the water supply infrastructure,” SCB vice president J Ramakrishna told mediapersons, adding that though the number of connections have doubled, HMWS&SB continues to supply only 50 lakh gallons of water per day (LGPD), resulting in water supplied once in five days.
 
 “We demanded that HMWS&SB supply another 40 LGPD to take the total water supply to 90 LGPD. There is a need to create infrastructure like service reservoirs and lay trunk mains to improve water supply to the cantonment as the existing network is not enough to meet the demand,” Ramakrishna said. The   issue was also discussed and SCB will work with GHMC to keep the lake free from pollution, he added. “The water board will examine the proposal for additional supply to the cantonment and a decision will be taken after meeting with SCB,” HMWS&SB general manager, (Marredpally), D Sudarshan told TOI.
 
 Some tense moments were also witnessed after some Mudfort locals thronged the SCB office to protest the water problem and even halted excise minister’s convoy, seeking a resolution. 
 
