BHOPAL: City of lakes and   (step-wells) is facing a severe crisis of potable water, especially during onset of summers in the last few years. Thanks to Bhopal Municipal Corporation’s lackadaisical attitude towards these traditional sources of water.

 Summers brings with it water crisis in several localities that depends on underground water sources.
 
 The 14th century traditional Bawdis (step-wells) that were a significant ground water source and improved the water table in the city are in a state of neglect.
 
 There are around 15 bawdis of different sizes, across the city.
 
 “These bawdis were developed to improve water catchment area around palaces and other monuments,” said Ritu Sharma of Sanidhya, an NGO working towards restoration of these step-wells.
 
 Cleaning of seven Bawdis are completed so far, while the others would be taken up soon. She expected the civic body to come forward for the restoration process.
 
 Ritu said, “Efforts are being taken to create awareness about bawdis among people of Bhopal.”
 
 Historical evidences suggest most bawdis were constructed during the time of Sultan Gyas Shah Khilji. These step-wells, which were functional till the British time, have now been turned into dumping grounds.
 
 The 15 bawdis in the city were identified by the research scholars under guidance of assistant professor Vishakha Kawathekar, head, Centre for Cultural Knowledge Systems, & Programme Coordinator, M. Arch (Conservation) School of Planning and Architecture, Bhopal.
 
 Kawathekar’s research found most of the bawdis are situated in old Bhopal areas including Sindhi Colony, Badabagh, Model School, Moti Talab, Naveen Colony, Navbahar Colony to name a few.
 
 “But they are in a miserable condition,” said she, adding, “This is due to private ownership, poor maintenance, wear and tear of time, vandalism, closing of catchment areas, the growth of plants on them, contaminated water accumulation resulting in the increase in diseases like Malaria. In fact, in their research, they found that few Bawdis are used as garbage disposal and carpentry workshop.”
 
 Zulfeqar Ali, superintending archaeologist, Archaeological Survey of India, Bhopal gave reasons for pathetic condition of Bawdis. He said, “As water pipes and pumps were laid in modern times, people’s dependency on bawdis came down, and they stopped maintaining them also.” When asked about ASI’s neglect in preserving them, he said, ASI only preserves and maintains bawdis that come under heritage monuments like the bawdis present in Chanderi in Ashoknagar district.
 
 When asked about measure being taken to protect bawdis in Chanderi, Ali said no significant effort is being taken to conserve step-wells. None of the 15 bawdis come under ASI.
 
 A R Pawar, project manager, Water Supply Project JNNURM, BMC said, “BMC look after water supply demand through the installation of pipelines instead of working towards restoration or reconstruction of old wells or Bawdis.” 
 
