AURANGABAD: The effect of the derailment of the Nanded-Tirupati special train continued to be felt on Wednesday. A couple of trains were cancelled, while another ran on a shorter route. 

 On Tuesday night, over 400 passengers had a close shave when the engine of the Nanded-Tirupati special train derailed due to obstruction faced by trespassing of a two-wheeler between Mudkhed and Shivangaon stations on Nanded-Nizamabad section of Hyderabad division. While no injuries were reported, the special train was brought back to Nanded and pressed into service via   route. 
 
 In view of the derailment, the South Central Railway announced   of the Adilabad-Nanded-Adilabad (17409/10) Express train on Wednesday. The popular daily express passes through Kinwat, Bodhadi Bujrug, Sahasrakund, Himayatnagar, Hadgaon Road, Bhokar, and Mudkhed stations.
 
 The Dharmabad Manmad Marathwada Express (17688) was partially cancelled between Dharmabad and Nanded on Wednesday. Passengers boarding the train from Dharmabad, Karkheli, Umri and Mudkhed stations faced inconvenience due to the partial cancellation. Earlier, Nanded-Hyderabad passenger that departed at 11.30pm was cancelled on Tuesday. 
 
 The   had initially announced that seven trains would get affected due to derailment, but further communication at around 1am on Wednesday said that only these trains would be impacted.
 
 Shakeel Ahmed, public relations officer with South Central Railway, a two-wheeler rider was trying to cross over the track. Realising that the train was approaching, the rider abandoned the vehicle on the track. “We recovered mangled remains of the two-wheeler that had trespassed the track. The two-wheeler rider managed to escape from the spot. We have found out the chassis number of the vehicle and a probe is on to locate the rider,” he said.
 
 Rajesh Shinde, public relations officer with Nanded division, said the main railway track of the affected route was restored by 9am on Wednesday, while the work of loop line (lesser important lines) was still on till evening. “In the wake of the derailment, Railway authorities have appealed to public at large not to engage in trespassing on railway tracks. Trespassing on track is not only risky to the trespasser but could jeopardise lives of scores of passengers,” Shinde said.
 
