NASHIK: With the alliance proposal to Shiv   failing to yield any positive results, The   ( ) has decided to declare its list of candidates for the February 21 civic polls on Wednesday.

 The MNS had earlier announced that the list would be declared on January 30 and 31, but later withheld it hoping that there would be an alliance with the Sena.
 
 On the other hand, the Bharatiya Janata Party ( ) will also be declaring its candidates on Wednesday, while Sena is still keeping its cards close to its chest and is yet to say when the list of candidates would be declared.
 
 “We have submitted our report to party chief Uddhav Thackeray. He will declare the candidates any time. Currently, he is in Goa for campaigning,” Sena city chief Ajay Boraste said.
 
 The BJP that was to declare its list of candidates on Tuesday postponed it for another day. The list of candidates is expected to be declared on Wednesday by guardian minister Girish Mahajan.
 
 Party leader and spokesperson of MNS Avinash Abhyankar said, “We will be declaring our list on Wednesday. The declaration of the candidates will be in phases.”
 
 Meanwhile, 12 BJP workers formally joined Sena on Tuesday in Mumbai in the presence of Sena Sampark Pramukh of Nashik Ajay Chaudhary. These staunch supporters of BJP corporator and MLA Balasaheb Sanap from his prabhag 3 have been his backbone from his initial days of political career.
 
 On the other hand, sitting BJP corporator Jyoti Gangurde and general secretary of BJP Yuva Morcha, Nashik City Somnath Bodke joined MNS on Monday.
 
 The Shiv Sena had on Sunday said it will declare the first list of candidates for civic polls in a day or two and will field candidates in all the 122 seats. On the other hand, the MNS said it will contest all the seats and the list of candidates is expected in a day or two.
 
 During the last elections to the NMC, Shiv Sena had won 19 seats, while MNS had won 40 seats. But 28 corporators have left MNS and joined Shiv Sena or BJP during the past year. At present, the party has a strength of 12 corportors, while 24 corporators from other parties have joined Shiv Sena. BJP had won 14 seats in the last election. But, 19 corporators from MNS, NCP and Congress have joined the BJP after the elections. 
 
 
