From being a garment exporter who would stalk   with the hope of being spotted as an actor to heading a show creatively and calling the shots at a channel,   has come a long way. And now, he has made his debut as a producer with ' '. 

 He says, “I have worked on the various aspects of making a show, and in the end, it’s all about putting your creativity to best use in the role assigned to you. My experience has made me more understanding towards the functioning of television. I don’t disregard the channel’s suggestions. I understand both sides as I have dealt with pressure on both the sides.”
 Though Sandiip understands the rigours of TV and how important ratings are, he is clear that creativity can’t be compromised. “It’s not wrong to emphasise on ratings; you can’t separate creativity from business. A producer would be lying if he said that ratings didn’t matter to him. However, we need to make new content as we are competing with the international market as well. It’s an ideal situation to excel,” he elaborates.
 
 Talking about choosing an unconventional concept — the story revolves around an overweight couple — for his production debut, Sandiip says, “I wanted my show to make people sit up and take notice. It may have the quintessential elements of a daily soap — sasural, maaika, a girl and a boy — but it still stands out. One of the biggest issues today is of body shaming. We are so blinded by physical appearances that we have forgotten to see the person within. I identify with Piyush (the male lead) because I have been like that. That’s my learning from working with Ekta (Kapoor) for 14 years. She has always taught me to think different and better the craft.”
 Following a positive feedback to his maiden production, Sandiip is now working on a few concepts. He says, “All my shows will be socially relevant because I feel it’s also a service to the society. At the same time, I also want them to be commercially sensible.” 
 
 An actor at heart, Sandiip has played some unconventional roles — a eunuch politician and priest in ' ' and ' ', respectively. Ask him about it and he replies, “I would like to act in films, as I love to see myself on the big screen. I enjoy it more because I know that my kitchen is being taken care of by TV. Acting in films is more of a passion.”
 Being a TV producer, he can easily cast himself in his show. However, the producer says, “I don’t want to push myself just because it’s my show. 
 I will cast myself only when I know there is nobody else who can do it 
 better than me.”
 
