Chants of Rohit, Rohit...!  , Revanth...! reverberated across the arrival lounge of Shamshabad airport as the status for the Mumbai-Hyderabad flight turned from ‘Expected’ to ‘arrived’ on Wednesday afternoon. The motley crew of cheerleaders — armed with banners, posters, dhol, nagara, bouquets and garlands — comprised of friends, family members and a handful of fans of the   Season 9 finalists, PVNS   and  . 
The city boys, who’ve been doing exceptionally well at the reality show, haven’t been home in three long months. Needless to say, the excitement among their waiting family members was palpable. But even after the boys stepped out into the waiting area, their parents had to wait for a good 30 minutes to get a glimpse of them. Young fans, mostly college-goers, had pounced upon the singers with requests for selfies, autographs and hugs. And the rising ‘stars’ obliged every single request. “I can’t tell you how great it feels to see him do so well; now that he made it to the Top 3, I hope and pray he wins,” said a moist-eyed Sita Subbalakshmi, Revanth’s mother, while waiting to give him a hearty hug. “Though he is here for just a day-and-a-half, I’ve plans to pamper him with his favourite food — fried potatoes and gulab jamuns,” she told us.
 While Revanth was whisked away to a press conference, Rohit, who was greeted with a warm hug by his mother Sudha, got into a waiting car and headed to his Vidyanagar residence. 
 “It feels so good to be back home after three long months. I did miss my family and friends and want to spend as much time as possible with them today...” Rohit told us before driving away. Meanwhile, in the gallis of Vidyanagar, a lot of folks, including a cop, were seen enquiring, ‘singer Rohit illu ekkada...?’ The house, of course, was locked, since Rohit’s entire family had gone to the airport to receive him, but a handful of people were already seen waiting to welcome their neighbourhood hero home. “Minister Hanumanth Rao bhi aare...” someone was heard saying, excitedly. 
 More drama awaited Revanth at the   residence of his uncle where his relatives and friends were waiting for him. As his car rolled in, the band-baaja began, even as his friends began dancing. “It feels like I’m getting married and this is my baraat...” said Revant, who also joined in the dancing.
 Both the Hyderabadi boys managed to win praise, and votes, not just from the Indian janta in general, but also from celebrities. “It feels great that so many people, including   sir and  , have been supporting me. I’m flattered! I thank everyone who’ve been voting for me and I wish they continue to do so,” said Revanth.
 
