It’s no mean feat being a baby. After all, crying, feeding, burping, pooping and generally being cute all day long can surely be taxing and perhaps, even a tad bit stressful! 

 No wonder, parents are now sending their little ones to ‘baby spas’. As bizarre as they sound, the hydrotherapies, relaxing massages and other treatments they offer help calm and rejuvenate tiny tots. Though internationally baby spas aren’t new, they have now once again come into focus. Last week, the cuteness quotient on the internet went up a few notches higher when pictures of infants wearing swim diapers, bobbing in big bath tubs and getting back rubs went viral, after two Indians opened a   in  . The concept, which is gaining popularity across the globe, has also come to  .
 
 
 While the city has exclusive ‘kids spas’, which offer services like facials, pedicures, manicures, massages, hairstyling and nail art to tweens, parents are now enrolling their younger ones at centres, which cater to infants, right from one month onwards up to three years. A typical baby spa comprises aqua therapy, which aims to boost the baby’s overall development from the time of their birth, massages that stimulate the brain and help in physical development and aquatic physical therapy in a pool by physiotherapists. 
 According to Dr Priyanka Bhoir, who runs one such spa in the city, babies have a natural affinity to water and that’s why the concept of having a spa for them isn’t ludicrous. “When a baby is in the mother’s womb, it is surrounded by amniotic fluid. So, as soon as babies get into the pool’s warm water, they relate it to being in their mother’s belly, which makes them feel secure. This calms them down and is therapeutic.” 
 
 
 While critics may dismiss such a spa as vain, doctors believe that it helps in the holistic health of the child. “Usually, infants are always on the ground and don’t have much scope to do any activity and exercise their muscles. But in water, they have mobility. Muscular and skeletal strength is increased through the water’s gentle resistance. Also, it helps enhance milestones in the life of the child. We’ve had babies, who weren’t able to crawl, but after a few sessions, they are able to do it. So, baby spas are beyond pampering,” adds Dr Bhoir. 
 Dr Deepak Ugre, a city-based paediatrician, agrees that water therapy at an early age can be beneficial. “It helps babies sleep better. The movement in water also helps in audio-visual coordination.” Research has shown that kids, who are exposed to water activities at an early age, are smarter than others kids. Almost 90 per cent of the brain develops during the first three years. He does give a warning about baby ‘massages’ though, “While water therapy is great for young kids, one must be careful about the kind of   the baby is subjected to. For instance, a traditional massage is more vigorous and can be harmful to the baby. One must concentrate more on touch therapy, which is gentler.”
 
 
 First-time parents are often apprehensive about infants doing activities, especially in water. No matter how young the child is, he/she will be able to stay afloat in water, because of special neck  , that help in supporting the baby. Also, unlike regular pools, the tubs have negligent amount of chlorine.
 
 
 Parents can also get into the pool with their little ones. There is a security factor when babies see their mother or father next to them in the water. It boosts their confidence. Parents get to enjoy an activity with their newborn in a relaxed environment. Even mothers are encouraged to do a spa session; after all, a happy mother results in a happy baby. Kavya Varma, who took her six-month old boy for a spa session, shares, “It was one of the best bonding experiences we’ve had. I was apprehensive about how he would feel, but he completely took to the water and was kicking happily in the pool. I was surprised he didn’t cry or create a fuss. In fact, he had much peaceful sleep that night. I even enjoyed meeting other parents and exchanging notes with them.” 
 
  
  
 
