GURUGRAM: A day after finance minister Arun Jaitley in his Budget speech highlighted the government’s plan to eliminate leprosy by 2018, health authorities kickstarted a nationwide anti-leprosy drive from Gurugram on Thursday to eradicate the crippling disease across the country.

 The Sparsh Leprosy Awareness Campaign (SLAC) was launched from Gurgaon under the   (NLEP) to detect the disease early on to not just ‘eliminate’ it, but ‘eradicate’ it as well.
 
 Under the campaign, nationwide gram sabhas will be organised with allied sectors of the health department. Gurgaon has around 48 of the 600 leprosy patients in the state. “We are doing our best to spread awareness about the disease at the grassroots level because if detected at an early stage, it can be treated. But in later stages, the disease does permanent damage to the body and it is difficult to treat deformed body parts. We are seeking help from various departments like rural development, panchayats, rural development, urban development, women and child development and social justice and empowerment to make the drive a success,” said Dr Vijay Kumar, district nodal officer (leprosy) and Gurgaon’s deputy chief medical officer.
 
 Leprosy was eliminated from India in 2005. The country, however, continues to be home to 57% of the world’s leprosy patients, figures shared by the government showed. The confusion lies in the use of official jargon. Though NLEP aimed at ‘eradication’ of leprosy, it had only succeed in ‘eliminating’ it. According to the  , while ‘eradication’ means complete removal of the disease, ‘elimination’ as a public health problem means to decrease the prevalence rate to less than one case per 10,000 people from random population at the national level.
 
 Elimination was achieved in India in December 2005. But since then new cases continue to be detected across the country. In 2005-06, around 1,61,457 cases were detected across India. A decade later in 2015-16, the figure has dipped to 1,27,334. Unfortunately, cases of visible deformity at the time of leprosy diagnosis have gone up from 3,015 in 2005-06 to 5,851 in 2015-16, which clearly suggests that cases are being detected late.
 
 The visible deformity includes deterioration of the skin and limbs, and visual impairment.
 
 
