M G Ramachandran, the matinee idol-turned-chief minister, met his cabinet for the first time in 1977, he is believed to have asked, “Has anyone here endured poverty in childhood?” The entire hall had fallen silent and   went on to say: “Naan pattini kidantha vayirukku sonthakaran (I have starved).” The young MGR had even sold ice in front of a school to help his family, and he knew what he was talking about. MGR’s welfare schemes for starving schoolchildren and the oppressed classes, and his thrust on technology and agricultural economy — all have earned praise. But behind his success remained a team of trusted ministers and officials, smart men who were educated and whom the chief minister gave full sway.

 “MGR had the knack of assessing a person and then delegating responsibilities. No health minister in the state had as much power I had during MGR’s regime,” recalled former health and family welfare minister Dr H V Hande. “I had powers to decide on appointment of deans, the director of medical health, etc. Once I took a proposal to MGR, he asked me to take back the file. Later he said it is only due to confidence reposed in each and every minister that the portfolio was allocated and he had full faith in the minister,” said Hande.
 
 When a section of officials cited lack of funds to run welfare schemes and suggested the lifting of prohibition to raise revenue, MGR had opposed the idea. But later he was convinced by the bureaucracy as illicit liquor had killed many by then.
 
 “The officials said we can make an earning and run nutritious meal programme for children. MGR agreed reluctantly. The welfare scheme became a model for the entire country,” recalled C Ponnaiyan, who remained in MGR cabinets until the ex-CM’s demise.
 
 After a tour of Japan, MGR sought to open more engineering and polytechnic colleges in the state. When his chief secretary V Karthikeyan pointed at a thinner state purse, MGR made way for self-financing colleges. Rural economy was given a thrust, cottage industries were given a fillip, last-mile connectivity was strengthened and agriculture produce was permitted in buses. A mere petition to the CM was enough to revoke the ban against pillion riding in bicycles. “MGR’s government was responsive to the aspirations of the people. It was participatory and fulfilled the needs of the people,” said Panruti S Ramachandran, one of MGR’s lieutenants.
 
 Not just officials in secretariat, MGR banked on his MLAs and sought to decentralise administration down to the village level. “He trusted MLAs with a special fund of `50 lakh that could be used for local needs. I used the fund for building schools and improving education in my constituency. Others used it for drinking water facilities and roads,” said G Viswanathan, founder-chancellor of  , who became a legislator in 1980. “He abolished governance by village munsifs and placed village administrative officers in their place. These appointments were carried out by district collectors and improved revenue collection,” he said.
 
 Although ministers and bureaucrats had a free run, MGR kept watch lest they veered off course. He took personal interest in the noon-meal scheme and irrigation projects. “He had the loyalty of film distributors and theatre owners in every district. They would give him reports on the local issues and erring politicians and bureaucrats,” said Viswanathan.
 
 Praising MGR as a good administrator,   chief S Thirunavukkarasar recalled the creation of revenue districts for better administration and to help people meet the collector. “Large districts like Ramanathapuram and Madurai were divided (Sivaganga, Virudhunagar, Thanjavur) for better revenue administration and to enable people to meet the collector,” he said.
 
 But even as the officials called the shots, MGR’s charisma went beyond winning polls. He met D Devaraj Urs, Ramakrishna Hegde and R Gundu Rao for the Cauvery talks, and got N T Rama Rao to unveil Telugu Ganga Project for Chennai’s drinking water needs. “It was only due to the personal relationship between MGR and NTR that Chennai got the drinking water scheme,” said Hande.
 
 
 
 
 
 
