BENGALURU: In a cramped room in the heart of the city, Karuna C (name changed) is entering data into a computer and typing letters. A computer operator in a   revenue office, Karuna handles salary slips of all employees of the civic agency. Ironically, she and dozens of other   working with her haven’t been paid salary for the past two months.

 Karuna is among 500-odd computer operators hired by two agencies to which the BBMP has outsourced recruitment for data entry and other computer operations. In fact, Karuna’s agency owes her more than six months’ salary.
 
 “Last year, we protested outside the BBMP office, but nothing came of it. We are still not being paid regularly. Computer operators working in Shivajinagar, Shantinagar, Rajajinagar, Rajarajeshwari Nagar, Chickpet, Chamrajpet and Gandhinagar have not been paid for the past two months,” she said.
 
 Citing the ‘equal work, equal pay’ judgment of the  , Karuna said: “The minimum salary we are eligible for is Rs 13,300, but some of us are still paid half that amount.” At present, Karuna is being paid Rs 7,000 a month, a little more than half this minimum wage.
 
 Karuna’s grouse that they are paid a fraction of what the permanent employees get despite working harder than them is understandable. Most computer operators often work till 8-8.30 at night. Those living in places like Yelahanka, Devanahalli and other faroff areas face many issues while commuting at this hour. 
 
 Karuna says she is fortunate that her husband is in a job that fetches him regular wages, but many of her colleagues have to deal with abusive husbands who treat their spouses as good as the money they bring home.
 
 Suhasini (name changed), another woman computer operator, has been in this profession for 10 years. Hired by a private agency, she says she hasn’t received salary for the past two months. “We are the ones who handle the pay slips of all BBMP employees. While they get their salaries at the end of each month, we get ours months later. Most of the BBMP staff members do nothing; we do all the work but get paid a pittance,” she rued.
 
 A graduate, Suhasini says they aren’t even respected by their colleagues. “Contract pourakarmikas too make more money than we do,” she said.
 
 “No company is willing to take up this contract with the BBMP as it is so irregular with payments,” Suhasini pointed out.
 
 “We are supposed to be paid Rs 13,365 a month, but we don’t even receive that much. We are usually paid once in two or three months. Additionally, the salary is delayed because we get it through other agencies. While the Rs 13,356 is the minimum wage, I’ve been getting only Rs 11,300 a month,” said Thanujakshi K M, president of the BBMP computer operators union.
 
 “How are we supposed to live on so little money in a city as expensive as Bengaluru,” she wondered.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 “We have paid all salaries till February, and in some zones, we have also paid salaries for March. As the process has been decentralized now, the payments are made zone-wise. We raise the bills and the BBMP clears them. Only after that can payments be made. However, the BBMP hasn’t cleared the bills for March yet. As for April, we still haven’t received the attendance reports of the operators from the BBMP, and we need those to raise the bills,” said Jai Krishna, who works in the HR department of one of the companies that this work has been outsourced to. 
 
 The BBMP, on the other hand, maintained that they have paid all the bills. “We have been making payments to these agencies on a regular basis as per the agreed terms and conditions,” said M K Gunashekar, chairman of the BBMP standing committee on taxation and finance.
 
 “This work has been outsourced to contractors. If they haven’t been paid, then I’ll look into the matter,” said BBMP commissioner N Manjunath Prasad.
 
 
