KOLKATA: A probe into the   of   as valid   has thrown up the names of  , the executives of which allegedly have direct links with the gang, whose reach spreads from Burrabazar to Belur. Lalbazar is likely to summon the executive officials shortly. 

 Members of the anti-rowdy squad claimed the members of the gang—it has been active for the past eight years—would charge different sales agents differently, depending on the particular medicine’s market sales records and the date of expiry. “Among the four cartons seized, some medicines were found to have expired last year, while a particular batch was three years too old. We are questioning printing press owner Pawan Jhunjunwala and wholesaler Niresh Sarogi to trace the routes taken to push the expired drugs back into the market,” said an officer, adding the two accused had been remanded in police custody till March 18. “We are finding out their roles and connections,” said JCP (crime) Vishal Garg.
 
 Investigating officers said several chemists complained they were not reimbursed for the expired medicines when returned to manufacturers. “Medical representatives coax us into buying products but if they are not sold, we get back only 20% of the cost price,” an ARS officer said quoting a distributor. The police claimed to “recover the costs” that the accused apparently took to selling expired medicines after illegally printing wrong dates on them. 
 
 Among the haul were antibiotics from the Meropenem and Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium groups. “Meropenem is a high-end antibiotic used to treat infections that have become multi-drug-resistant. Medicines with lapsed expiry date lose their efficacy. So, when such an antibiotic stops working, chances of the infection to intensify increase, endangering the patient’s life,” said Dr Ahsan Ahmed, critical care expert. Amoxicillin is also an antibiotic used as a first-line drug, while Clavulanate Potassium is a combination drug with Amoxicillin.
 
 The legislation doesn’t specify penalties for chemists stocking such medicines and does not put the onus of safe disposal on manufacturers. The drugs controller of Bengal will now ask chemists to maintain batch-wise record of expired drugs being disposed. Chemists have also been told to issue bills to customers that will include the medicine name, quantity, cost, batch number and expiry date. “This is the practice in other cities, such as Chennai,” an official said.
 
 
