LUCKNOW: Inspecting development work undertaken during the Akhilesh-led state government,   Aditya Nath Yogi on Monday expressed dismay over completion of only 60% work at   against an expenditure of over Rs 1,400 crore out of the estimated budget of Rs 1,500 crore. The CM also expressed surprise that a requirement of further Rs 1,500 crore had been sought to complete the project. He directed officials to look into the possibility of the riverfront being linked to   of the Union government as the same would help in reducing the cost on the state exchequer.

 As Yogi inspected the riverfront in the morning, also present were deputy chief minister  , who was Lucknow mayor when the project was undertaken, Cabinet minister for urban development Suresh Khanna, irrigation minister Dharmpal Singh, cabinet ministers Rita Bahuguna Joshi, Ashutosh Tandon and Brijesh Pathak and minister of state (independent charge) Swati Singh. 
 
 The chief minister also expressed disappointment over the work being left to the mercy of contractors and coming up fountains, etc at the site which could have been installed later. He directed officials to increase the diaphragm wall until Kala Kothi and warned officials against wastage of funds. 
 
 He also directed officials to expedite construction of inter-safety drains to tap effluent flowing into the river from the various nullahs and ordered for it to be completed before May. He expressed dismay that despite National Green Tribunal’s directives, not much had been done in the direction of stopping effluent flowing from the nullah into the river. 
 
 Raising questions on the preparedness of officials for the project, the chief minister said they should have calculated the actual expense and checked the sources from where money was to be allocated before beginning the project. 
 
 Earlier, to complete the project, Jal Nigam has sought Rs 750 crore to increase the capacity of Bharwar STP and to link inter-safety drains till Bharwar STP. Similarly, irrigation department requires Rs 900 crore more to complete the project. 
 
