MELBOURNE: “Thanks, mom,“Denis Istomin said, looking across the Rod Laver Arena at his box.   raised and coached the 30-year-old, but more importantly believed in him when he broke his leg in a car accident 15-years ago, leaving him wrecked in a hospital bed for three months and out of the sport for two years.“We do a good job,“ he finished, choking.

 Istomina, the only teacher the  's wildcard entrant ever knew, simply nodded. The Uzbek, ranked 117, who speaks two languages Russian and English, used a third with great authority in the second round on Thursday, pounding 17 aces that first rattled and then broke through the watertight defenses of the six-time champion here  .
 
 Istomin, who paired his fluorescent eyeglass frames with a striking headband, giving him an over-the-top appearance, produced tennis that matched the look, pulling off a 7-6 (10-8), 5-7, 2-6, 7-6 (7-5), 6-4 win over the second seed in 4 hours 48 minutes.
 
 The 29-year-old Serb, who battled back from a set down, fighting off set points in the second set before taking a two-sets-to-one lead, had chances to get ahead again in the fourth set. In the end, Djokovic, who won seven points more than Istomin (193-186), slipped on his strength, the big points. Istomin, who broke early in the decider, in the fifth game with a flashing down-the-line two-hander, won more points in the fifth set. 28 to his opponent's count of 26. The margins in matches as close as this are small and can often be missed. “Denis played better in the clutch moments,“ Djokovic said. “He served well, precise.“
 
 Istomin said he was hopeful coming into the contest. “If you don't think you have a chance then no reason to come on court. I'm also working hard, trying to do my best,“ he said. A former top-40 player, Istomin, said, at the start of the year, had anyone told him he'd beat Djokovic, he'd have thought them `crazy'. “For me was impossible to think about that I can hold Djokovic for five-sets physically and mentally ,“ he said.
 
 It wasn't the intense, involved Djokovic on court in the second round. He tried, he pushed, he dug deep, but didn't find the fire. So much so that after the 16-minute opening game the Serb suggested that they should play the tie-break straight away.
 
 “It's one of these days when you don't feel that great on the court, don't have much rhythm, and the player you're playing against is feeling the ball,“ the 29-yearold said. “In the third set I felt comfortable. I had a breakpoint opening fourth set, missed an easy forehand, that's where the match turned.“
 
 When asked where he had lost the match, mentally or physically, Djokovic replied, “I don't think it was physical. We both looked okay . It was just in the game of tennis, one guy beats the other guy. That's all I can say .“ Pressed to reveal his take-away from the loss, the second seed said, “Take my bags and I go home. Lessons are learnt every single day, not just when you lose.“
 
 In other men's second round matches, 14-time major winner Rafael Nadal beat Marcos Baghdatis 6-3, 6-1, 6-3; third seeded Milos Raonic, who has been under the weather soldiered on, beating Luxembourg's Giles Muller 6-3, 6-4, 7-6 (7-4); sixth-seeded Gael Monfils put out Alexandr Dolgopolov 6-3, 6-4, 1-6, 6-0; 11th seed David Goffin beat Radek Stepanek 6-4, 6-0, 6-3; 15th seed Grigor Dimitrov moved past Korea's Hyeon Chung 1-6, 6-4, 6-4, 6-4.
 
 
