THANE: The sheer disparity in provision of basic facilities such as average supply of water, clear roads and foothpaths, civic healthcare infrastructure, decent educational amenities, public transportation and recreational infrastructure, seems to have made the Rabodi-Saket area, in old Thane city, a ward in complete contrast.

 Comprising a mix of all economic segments, including the high and middle economic enclaves of Saket area and Vrindavan societies and the lower economic section comprising of Rabodi and nearby settlements, ward number 10 is a picture in contrast when it comes to civic work.
 
 While Vrindavan and Saket areas boast of well-maintained roads with encroachment-free footpaths and road safety signs, good water supply, well connected and frequent bus services, Rabodi and K-villa areas are ridden with unauthorized structures, narrow congested lanes, encroachments that go beyond the footpaths, if any, and heavy dependency on tankers and borewells.
 
 “Bus connectivity from Vrindavan bus stop to the station is really good. We walk to that depot daily and take a bus from there to go to work. The internal roads in our area are very bad and even riding a bike involves a lot of manoeuvering around people, food carts, vegetable and clothes vendors, and so on,” said Azim Shaikh, a Rabodi resident.
 
 While the sewage lines of the societies in the ward are well-integrated with the civic sewage line, the three big nullahs and mediocre solid waste management system has hampered the sanitation level of the pocket, which is demarcated by the Jail nullah on one side and Thane creek on another.
 
 “Despite the regular waste collection and segregation by the ghanta-gadi, the residents living around the nullahs have a habit of dumping their garbage in and around it and clogging it. Things get worse in the monsoon as the area gets filled with the waste water,” said Sanjay Shinde, a Vrindavan Society resident.
 
 Although this belt, which houses over 51,000 people, lacks a public health centre, residents avail the facility from the one that lies around 100 meters away in the next ward.
 
 Replete with decent classrooms, separate clean toilets for girls and boys and massive playgrounds, the five schools in Rabodi area only need a library to earn the tag of ideal schools.
 
 Meanwhile, the four gardens here seem to have earned this tag of perfection as they are all well-maintained with good seating spaces, garbage bins, proper water supply and open gyms.
 
 
