RAIPUR: A day after   raised the issue of Panama papers to link Chhattisgarh  , his son and   Abhishek Singh reiterated his position that he doesn’t have any foreign bank accounts.

 BJP MP Abhishek Singh, who represent Rajnandgaon Lok Sabha constituency in Chhattisgarh, issued a statement on Sunday clarifying his stand after Congress Vice-president said at a public meeting in Bastar Prime Minister Narendra Modi is silent on his own party men whose names figured in Panama papers. Gandhi had alleged that no action is being taken against Chhattisgarh chief minister and his relatives on Panama leaks issue even through a prime minister in a supposedly less democratic country like Pakistan had to bow out of office after his relatives’ names figured in Panama papers.
 
 “I had clarified earlier also that I don’t have any  . Even today, I am asserting that the allegations against me are untrue and politically motivated”, he said adding "I am reiterating once again that I don’t have any foreign accounts”.
 
 “As far as investigations are concerned, it is well known that the centre had already set up a special investigation team (SIT) to probe issues pertaining to black money and foreign accounts on the directions of the Supreme Court”, he added.
 
 In April last year, Congress had demanded resignation of chief minister Raman Singh, alleging that the government had ignored International Consortium of Investigative Journalists (ICIJ) leaks of offshore investment in the past that claimed about his son’s ownership of assets in the British Virgin Islands.
 
 After Congress raised the issue last year, BJP lawmaker had categorically denied the allegations describing it as false, mischievous and politically motivated. “I held no investment or share in any foreign company”, he had stated.
 
 After Pakistan Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif had to quit over Panama papers, Congress had mounted an attack on the ruling BJP at the centre and in Chhattisgarh, demanding resignation of chief minister Raman Singh using the same yardstick. Since then, Congress has been maintaining that investigation cannot be selective and opportunistic as Prime Minister Narendra Modi had launched a campaign against RJD chief Lalu Prasad Yadav and other leaders on corruption issue. 
 
