Now, it’s official that   has been renamed as Maharashtra Open and the tournament will be held in Pune, next year. Many tennis professionals, who have been regulars at this event over the last 21 years, are clearly disappointed. Social media has been buzzing with people voicing their ire, disbelief, displeasure and also hope that the event will come back to the city sooner or later. Some of them, including players who have been a part of Chennai Open, talk to us... 

 
 Chennai has always been a really good hunting ground for me. Not only the Chennai Open, I have even played national tournaments in the city. Since it is also very close to my hometown, Bangalore, I always enjoyed coming and playing at Chennai Open. Even when I played singles, I qualified twice and played against  . It was such a great honour for me to play against a Grand Slam winner at home. Of course, the most special moment at Chennai Open came early this year when I won the doubles title with Jeevan Nedunchezhiyan. The event is surely going to be missed. It has been held in Chennai for such a long time! However, we should be happy that it will be happening in Pune next year, and has not been taken out of the country. 
 
 
 
 Just like many others from the city, I am very attached to the tournament. In fact, it was one of the reasons why I pursued tennis at a professional level. I made a huge connect with the sport through that event. Even there are very special memories of playing in hometown during Chennai Open. For me, one of the best years in Chennai Open was 2009, when I got a wild card entry. The second-round win in the tournament was probably the biggest win of my career at that point of time, beating former World No 1 and former Chennai Open champion, Carlos Moya. And later, I even went on to play the finals that year. It’s certainly disappointing to lose something that’s kind of ingrained into Chennai’s culture and is also an event of such magnitude in which many world-class players participated over the years. I hope that the people of Chennai realise that they miss the event and go the extra mile to bring it back to the city.
 
 
 
 So many good memories flood to my mind when I think about the last 21 years of Chennai Open in the city. It used to be like a thiruvizha in Chennai. It feels really sad to see the event being shifted to another city. Chennai Open and the top class players who would visit the city every year were an inspiration to many young players from Chennai and that undoubtedly made the city best in tennis in India. I still remember, how crowded the entire place was when Boris Becker came for Chennai Open more than a decade ago. People thronged the stadium to catch a glimpse of him. Last December, after the Vardah cyclone, the stadium was in such a bad state, but all of us took so much effort to clean up the mess and got the stadium in a good condition within 15 or 20 days. And that made it possible to have Chennai Open in January. When we had the event even after such a situation, it is disappointing to see it taken out of the city for financial reasons. 
 
 
 
 Ever since I started playing tennis, this had been the main tennis event in the city. I’ve not really played in Chennai Open, but couple of the players whom I coach have played in the qualifiers in the last few years. Of late, there have been several players from Chennai who play tennis at a professional level. This move is definitely a disappointment for many of them. As it will be taken off the city, they will be denied the chance of getting wild card entries into the qualifiers. Also, it’s going to be an upsetting thing for many aspiring kids. Because generally, some of the big players give training sessions to many such kids during the tournament. In fact, coaches like me would benefit a lot just by watching other coaches and how they train the players. All that’s going to be missed terribly. On the other, by having it in Pune, it will also help develop the sport in another part of the country. 
 
 
 
 This was our only chance of watching an ATP event live. It was a great chance for players like me to practise and even spend time off the court with many top-ranked players. We will miss all that, once it is moved to Pune. Being a player, there isn’t any point simply going for a tournament to watch it. We would benefit out of it only we if get to practise with those top ranked players who come for it. But it will be difficult now as they would give preference to their local players to practise with those top-ranked players in the tournament. Also, we won't get wild card entries to qualifiers like previous years as such entries will again go to players from Maharashtra. 
 
 
 
