BENGALURU: The   to two assembly segments in  , results for which will come out on Thursday, have gained an importance far beyond the actual, with both the ruling   and the opposition   perceiving it as a test of their actual ground strength for the 2018 state assembly poll.
 
  BJP state president B S   camped for 27 days at the two constituencies — Nanjangud and Gundlupet — making an all-out effort to wrest these seats from the Congress. The BJP has never won in these constituencies and have a poor presence in the Old Mysuru region, considered the fiefdom of CM  .
  
  “We will win both seats with a margin of 25,000 votes,” Yeddyurappa told ET. Observers say even if they win one constituency or even dent the Congress’s vote banks, that is a positive measure of the BJP’s increasing acceptance in the state. “We will have much better chances of making our 150-plus goal (out of 224 constituencies) if we win here now,” a senior BJP leader told ET, adding: “It will reopen our southern gateway.”
  
  A win here will also strengthen Yeddyurappa’s bid for the CM’s post and quell internal rebellion in the party as he has been the face of the campaign.
  
  Similarly, Siddaramaiah’s prestige and his capability to bring in votes for the Congress is tested in these polls, as the Dalits and the other backward castes, his support base, form a large part of the electorate here.
  
  It is not easy for the BJP as there is big support for Siddaramaiah. He is treated as a family member and people ranging from old women to young men thronged his street-corner meetings and road shows. The surprising element, however, is that Yeddyurappa, who was not particularly known in the region, was taken out in processions in villages, not just by his community the Lingayats, but also by the Dalits.
  
  While some of this support has been ascribed to the BJP candidate in Nanjangud, Dalit leader V Srinivas Prasad, community members like Manjula in Devanooru village left work and family commitments just to go see Yeddyurappa.
  
  “If this translates into votes and a   is formed, it will help the BJP prospects in at least 20-22 constituencies in the Old Mysuru region,” a political observer told ET.
  
  Aware of the seriousness, all Dalit leaders including KPCC state president G Parameshwara worked hard on the ground. “We will still get the Dalit vote,” a Congress leader said, but admitted that it would not be intact like earlier.
  
  Yeddyurappa told ET that these elections were special as the people were refusing money and facing up to muscle power to vote for his party. 
