GURUGRAM: While people across the city are waiting for MCG to start   repair work in their areas, residents of societies like  , Omaxe Nile and Orchid Petals, and people working in Spaze IT Park in Sector 49, are waiting for the corporation to finish   work on their neighbourhood roads which was begun almost a year back.

 According to Sector 49 residents, the condition of the road starting from CD Chowk towards Fazilpur village is currently worse than what it was before the repair work started almost a year back. PWD minister   inaugurated the project last year and assured residents it would be over in a month. 
 
 Work had started after demand for widening the road was raised by residents. This is an important sector road, which starts from CD Chowk near Omaxe Mall on   road, and connects societies like Uppal Southend and Orchid Petals, and a few IT parks, mostly occupied by start-ups.
 
 “The condition of the road has worsened, it is half-made which makes commute on it really dangerous, especially with a senior citizen,” said Siddhartha Nagpal, an HR manager living in Orchid Petals society. He added that a few months ago, when his wife was pregnant, every time she had to take the route, both of them would keep their fingers crossed. 
 
 “I understand it takes time for approvals, but the initial work, like removing trees and shifting electric lines, was completed almost six months ago. Why the delay now?” asked  , a retired army officer who lives in the area. He added that since the patch was widened, it is also being illegally used as a parking lot, creating more chaos on the road. 
 
 Residents from the neighbouring societies and employees of the IT parks said they have approached the authorities several times, but had to return without any satisfactory answers. “We formed a delegation and visited the MCG office last month, but we were told the work is in progress,” said Aditya Dua, who runs his own HR consultancy firm in Spaze IT Park. 
 
 MCG joint commissioner Rohit Yadav said, “The delay happened due to a few hindrances. Firstly, the case on diverting the road through the forest area took six months. Tender and execution of tree felling took a further three months. After this, DHBVN took two months to shift nearby low-tension power lines. By this time, winter had set in. Bitumen roads are not made in winter.” 
 
 He added, “Finally, enhancing the carpeting of the road from the allotted 60% to the entire length took some more time. Overall, involvement of other departments, lack of coordination and poor planning has left this road in such a bad shape. But we have taken note of it and are committed to completing it within the next 45 days, by March. It will be followed up with storm drains on both sides, three-metre-wide pedestrian paths on both sides and street lights — works which won’t affect the laid road. And work will start in a few days.”
 
 
