MUMBAI: Ever since he bought a Mercedes last month, Oswin D’souza has not eaten at his favourite   stall on  . “I’m too embarrassed to park my car there,” explains D’souza, resident of a gated community on JVLR. Though he has been craving vada-pao, D'souza also fears that that it might be the only version of   to survive in Mumbai if the state government implements its  .

 The policy states that only those with domicile certificates would qualify for hawking licences. For domicile, a person must have resided in Maharashtra for at least 15 years. To D'souza, this BJP-Shiv Sena government’s decision, ahead of the Mumbai civic polls, smacks of “regionalism”. “It sounds like a move to woo locals,” he says. He also fears this will hit the poor who subsist on street food the hardest. “If the policy is implemented overnight like demonetisation, they'll go hungry,” he says. 
 
 Hawkers are distraught while residents' associations feel the move will help regulate hawking. 
 
 “The problem in India is that hawking is unregulated so it is important to have caps on licenses,” says Indrani Malkani, managing trustee of V Citizens Action Network (V-CAN), a not-for-profit network. Citing an ALM initiative that integrated local hawkers into the neighbourhood of Malabar Hill's Little Gibbs road in 2000, Malkani says ground realities must be taken into consideration while implementing such policies. “Insisting on a domicile certificate will also give a check in the light of terrorism,” says Malkani, adding that hawkers can then serve as the “eyes and ears of the police”. 
 
 The policy will help the city’s roads breathe, feels Anandini Thakoor of Khar Residents’ Association. “Linking Road is chock-a-block with cars on one side and stalls on the other,” says Thakoor. 
 
 However,  , president, Samanvay Hawkers Union in Thane, says, “This policy is another way of harassing vendors.” He points out that the policy isn't logical given that many of the rules under the Street Vendors Regulation Act of 2014 have not yet been implemented properly by the civic body. “As per that Act, biometric surveys must be conducted to mark hawking zones and a vendors' rehabilitation committee must be formed but both haven't been undertaken,” says Ghanshani.
 
 
