After the critically acclaimed Njan Steve Lopez where he played a dark hero,   will be seen in a light-hearted romance next, Basheerinte Premalekhanam. In a quick chat, the actor talks about choosing a romance as his second film, how his illustrious family never interferes in his choices and more. 

 
 
 Actually after Njan Steve Lopez, I had committed to two films, out of which one got shelved. The other got postponed a bit. I listened to a lot of stories in between, all of which had dark subjects, which had similarities with Steve Lopez. But when I listened to the story of Basheerinte Premalekhanam I felt it to be a cute film, opposite to that of Njan Steve Lopez. It's a very small film, a feel-good one which you can watch and leave with a smile on your face. That's what attracted me to it. Vaikom Muhammad Basheer's book is an important character in this movie, that's all, the story is not the same.
 
 
 
 No. Basheer is a happy-go-lucky fellow, the other extreme of Steve actually. Steve never smiles even once in the movie while Basheer can never be seen without a smile on his face. During the first few days of Steve Lopez I would dramatise a bit but director Rajeev Ravi would say, 'no drama is needed, keep it subtle'. But for Basheer I was asked to be more expressive, more open.
 
 
 
 
 To be honest it was funny. I felt weird looking at myself during the look test. I don't comb my hair usually and don't ever grow a moustache. But I had to do both for the look test and later in the movie. In fact it was while I was feeling all weird that I met my co-star Sana Althaf for the first time. She had acted with Fahadh in a film but I had never interacted with her. So my introduction was ' Hi, horrible first impression. But later I grew comfortable with the look and got used to it. Sana and I became friendly as well.
 Except the look, everything else was fine. The shirts I wore had prints like in the 80s, that's all. The director, Aneesh Anwar, had instructed us that we don't need to go hard core on the Malabar slang, except for a few words like Ngalu for 'you'.
 
 
 
 
 My dad never used to interfere in Shanu (Fahadh)'s work and that is how he is with me too. All that dad tells me is that if I think a film is okay I should do it. If it's a hit, good, or else I will learn something.
 
 We speak about cinema at home but never about our work. In fact it was Nazriya who asked me to take up Basheerinte Premalekhanam. I discussed the story with her first and she told me that she found it cute. We are all aware of what movie someone is doing, that's all. At times Fahadh gives an outline of the movie he is doing.
 
 
 
 I'm the one who watches all the films on day one in theatre. Even if a film is bad I would still go watch it to see what's so bad about it. Dad might watch a film once the crowds go down but Fahadh watches very few movies. I think Maheshinte Prathikaaram was the last film which we all watched together. I had watched it on day one while Nazriya went a little later, with her friends. And one day, all of us suddenly decided to watch the movie and went together.
 
 
 
 I'm very serious about films. I have never thought of doing anything else, I can never do a 9-5 job. Cinema has always been my passion; not just acting but cinema as a whole. I have a long term desire, to own a production company but as of now I don't have the capacity for it. But whatever I do, cinema will be the centre of it. 
 
 
 
 
 As an actor, it doesn't matter to me what kind of films I do ' offbeat or commercial ' as long as they're good films. It might be easier for me to do a carefree character since I'm such a person in real. But I'm a great fan of thrillers and would love to do an edge-of-the-seat thriller.
 I have another film coming up, a romcom, but it's not ready to be announced yet. 
 
