AURANGABAD: Maharashtra governor   appealed to the police to adopt technology to overcome the   and underlined the need for more effective steps to  .

 He said that policing is one of the toughest jobs and the police have to rely on technology not only to prevent and detect cyber crimes, but also to overcome the staff crunch. He added that the issue of police housing has been solved as the state government has sanctioned a scheme of constructing 1 lakh houses for them in Maharashtra. 
 
 “They work under stress and more than common people. Therefore, many police personnel face health problems. It is our collective duty to keep them healthy and organise such sport events,” he said at the closing ceremony of the 29th Maharashtra State Police Games (MSPG) held here.
 
 Mumbai city police with their performance in various sports disciplines bagged the MSPG general championship in the men’s and women’s category. The first runners up position among men was bagged by  , followed by Kolhapur range, while among women, Kolhapur range turned out to be the first runner up, followed by training directorate. Later, the MSPG flag was handed over to the Navi Mumbai, which will host the next MSPG.
 
 Speaking at the ceremony, the governor expressed his concern over the poor ratio of policemen to citizens in the state and stressed on the need to increase the number of policemen in the state. He said that there is a need to improve infra for the policemen in the state.
 
 State director general of police Satish Mathur said the week-long sports event set as many as eight new records in the disciplines of 100 metres running races. 
 
 Jaishri Borge of Kolhapur range, improved her last year’s record of completing 1,500 metres in 4:37:01 and covered the same distance in a span of 4:34:04. She walked away with the title of best athlete in women’s category, while Vipin Dhavle, also of Kolhapur range, bagged the title of best athlete in men’s category. Dhavle beat last years best athlete Akhil Patel of Jalna police, for winning 100 metres race.
 
 In the hammer throw, Nizamuddin set a new record of 46.39 metres by breaking the previous years record of 45.65 metres that was set by Prashant Chavan of Konkan range.
 
 In the firing competition held for the senior police officers on Thursday morning at Padegaon based police firing range, Sangli superintendent of police Datta Shinde has once again bagged the first position with highest points. This is the third consecutive event where Shinde beat his counterparts.
 
 In the week-long sports event held in the city, SRPF range bagged gold, followed Kolhapur range and bronze by Railway range. In football, Nagpur city bagged gold, silver by Konkan range and bronze by Kolhapur range. Men from the Mumbai city police bagged gold in handball, weight lifting, swimming, judo, cross country and volleyball, while their women counterparts bagged gold in judo and weight lifting.
 
 Award for kabbadi in men’s category was bagged by SRPF range and in women’s category, it went to Konkan range. Amravati range women team bagged gold in volleyball. Men representing Kolhapur range bagged gold in basketball, while women representing Amravati range bagged gold in basketball. 
 
