While his debut film,   got him noticed, it was his third film, Mozhi that was Radha Mohan’s breakthrough in the industry. That film made him a brand name for low-key emotional films laced with humour. And this is the reason why his upcoming film, Brindavanam, starring Arulnithi,   and  , has generated expectations.

 Given that Arulnithi is playing a hearing-and-speech-impaired person, just like his protagonist of Mozhi, there have been comparisons with that film, but   says that is the only common element between the two films. “This is a completely different story and has got nothing to do with Mozhi,” he adds. This is also why he is not calling it a sequel. “I did not even want to title it as Mozhi 2 because that would be misguiding my audience. This is more like how a director does two cop films that are unrelated to one another,” he quips.
 
 Brindavanam, he reveals, deals with a barber in Ooty, who lives all by himself. His only pastime is watching the comedies of actor Vivekh, of whom he is a great fan. “Even though he cannot hear, he understands the humour by lip-reading. So, what if he happens to meet Vivekh, who has come to Ooty on personal work? And what if a celebrity like Vivekh helps out this stranger in his romance, with a girl who is from the same town, and makes a difference in his life?”
 
 Vivekh is someone whose comedy is more dialogue-oriented than slapstick and given the hero’s disability, did he write the role with Vivekh in mind? “I just wrote the role for a comedian, but Vivekh was the one I approached after writing it. He is a really good actor, who can also do roles other than comic ones, and we have been talking about doing a film together. He was very happy to take this up as a challenge. He will be the surprise package for the audience,” the director promises.
 
 As for Arulnithi, he says he had initially pitched a different story, but the actor liked this one very much. “He has so far played rough-and-tough roles, but there is an innocence about him, and that has worked well for this role,” he says. As he did with Mozhi, Radha Mohan got a sign language instructor to conduct a workshop with the actor for a month before they went to shoot. Even Tanya, who he describes as “enthusiastic”, came to rehearse every day. “I took both my actors to the set only after they were fully prepared. That is how we were able to finish the film in 45 days in a single schedule,” he says.
 
 But making a film has become easy these days, feels Radha Mohan. “You can make a film under Rs 2-2.5 crore. But marketing it has become very difficult. From getting the right release date to getting enough screens, everything has become a challenge,” he adds. He gives the example of his last film, Uppu Karuvadu, which, despite the positive reviews, could not perform well at the box office because it was released just days before the 2015 Chennai floods. This is why making films within a budget is very important, he adds. “Earlier, people used to ask what your story is, now they ask what your budget is. So, you have to be conscious of the budget. There is no point in making a film with a high budget and then ruing later.”
 
 Even though he has been making films for over 10 years and has managed to become a brand of sorts, he hasn’t worked with big stars in the industry. Is this a conscious decision? He explains, “In today’s circumstances, if there is an expectation for my film even though it doesn’t have a big star, then, I should try to retain that respect that audiences have for me. That said, I cast based on what the character requires. Even in Payanam, Nagarjuna played a character; the film did not revolve around him. If I think a character needs a big star, I will approach them.”
 
 Ask him if he has ever approached a big star and he reveals there were talks some time ago with Dhanush, though things did not fall in place then. But he adds, “Doing a film with a big star is not a joke. It is a very big risk, the stakes are really high, and it needs a different aptitude. Just like how not everyone can make a comedy or a family drama, not everyone can do a mass masala movie. You really need to know how to project a star, and how to use his image. Even if your small film doesn’t do well at the box office, you still get a name. But if you fail with a star film, it will hurt your reputation. That is why I really respect the filmmakers who have given successful film with big stars.”
 
 When Mozhi released in 2007, there were hardly any female-centric films being made in Kollywood. But today, the scenario has changed quite a bit, and Radha Mohan is very happy about it. Given that Jyotika has made her comeback and is acting in such female-centric films, has he discussed any ideas with her? “With Jo, there is no need to discuss. Many are asking me why we aren’t doing Mozhi 2, but that story reached its conclusion, so there is no point hanging around it. I’d love to do a different story with Jo. But, if we were to team up again, it has to be a really interesting project, especially because there will be a lot of expectations,” he signs off. 
 
