After playing Ashoka in the show  , actor   is keen to start his career afresh on the silver screen. The Allahabad-born actor now wants to play lead in a show. “I would rather wait for two-three years to take the plunge rather than work on projects now and get stuck with the child actor tag. No matter how significant the role is, I will be a child actor, a tag which I don't want to earn,“ says the actor who was in Varanasi recently as chief guest at a local school.

 Siddharth, who will soon visit Allahabad, his hometown, to appear for his class XI exams, also has a huge female following. “ A lot of girls write on my Facebook page appreciating my work and some of them even profess love. Some have even gone to the extent of proposing to me, but that has mainly happened on phone which luckily my mother handles,“ he says with a laugh.
 
 
  
 The actor who has been to Varanasi earlier too, says, “This visit was special as I went to Kashi Vishwanath temple for darshan. There was a certain magnetic feel to the place. I did not ask for any special wish but just prayed to have enough strength to continue as lots of people give up their struggle when they don't get the desired results. Varanasi is an experience which remains with you forever. I had the privilege of staying in the city for a long spell during the shooting of the teleserial Mahakumbh,Ek Rahasya, Ek Kahani and enjoyed every moment of it . As a part of the shoot, I had taken several dips in the Ganga, which made some of the crew members joke and tell me that `tumhare saare paap dhul jayenge'. Apart from the spiritual aspect the food in Banaras is amazing.You cannot beat the taste of kachori-jalebi and the Banarasi paan,“ he says.
 
 Siddharth, who recently essayed the role of young Shivaji in the on-going teleshow Peshwa Bajirao, says that life post Ashoka has changed drastically for him. “Post Chakravartin Ashoka, life has changed considerably so I don't want to settle for anything less. After such a good stint on television, I would like to be launched in films with a good banner. I was really delighted when all the big stars including Salman Khan sir, appreciated my work so now I will look for an opportunity where I can showcase my talent.Especially my sporting talent as I am a gold medallist in gymnastics in the national sub junior category. Recently I saw   sir's latest film and I really liked it and wish a film on gymnastics be made. We have a great achiever   in the field of gymnastics, who could be an inspiration. Even I want to take up gymnastics further and perhaps win a gold in the Olympic Games. Despite the hectic schedule, I practice four to five hours every day,“ says Siddharth.
 
 
 
  
 
