MEERUT: With 23 wildlife sanctuaries spread across an area of over 5,000 square kilometres, the demand for a separate wildlife department has been growing in Uttar Pradesh. While the state forest department currently takes care of the entire region, it is often seen struggling with situations arising due to the erratic behavior of animals.

  For instance, a week ago, a crocodile slithered into a village at night and managed to get inside a house in Rajaram village on the banks of Ganga in Bijnor district. While no one was hurt as the aquatic reptile was captured in time, the forest department was quick to send a letter to the higher-ups to maintain adequate amount of water in the river to prevent straying of crocodiles into the neighbouring villages.
  
  Now, the World Wildlife Fund (WWF), which has been associated with the forest department for the conservation of turtles and aquatic reptiles, has defended its project. “The government must seriously work towards setting up a separate wildlife department as forest department may have the much-needed expertise to save and conserve jungles, it is not completely equipped to deal with wildlife. That requires an altogether different kind of knowledge and expertise. Most importantly, you need to figure out the behavioral pattern of animals,” said  , coordinator, aquatic biodiversity,  .
  
  With incidents of man-animal conflict on the rise, the need for a specialized department to deal with the state’s vast wildlife is being felt like never before. There have been instances of leopards attacking domestic animals after straying into villages.
  
  Mukesh Kumar, chief conservator of forests, west UP zone, told TOI, “We have always felt the need for a wildlife department as in the long run, we have elaborate plans to develop the entire zone into a tourist hotspot where people can come and enjoy wildlife, apart from the scenic beauty spread all across river Ganga. In fact, we have already sent a proposal to the government to develop a wildlife department with its sub-offices in different areas of Meerut, Saharanpur and Moradabad zones.”
  Officials said   wildlife sanctuary is the largest in the state with a total area of 2,073 square kilometers.
