NASHIK:   has been struggling to erase the harrowing memories of the last days his 75-year-old father, Sukhdev, spent at the regional referral hospital at Nashik six months back. 

 His father, who was suffering from cancer, was referred to the hospital that did not have doctors or operational radiotherapy equipment meant to treat the ailing patient. Even more traumatic was the experience the family went through after his father was operated upon. None of the doctors turned up at the hospital on the days his father was advised follow-up check-ups.
 
 “It was an agonising experience. We would constantly request the nurses and ward boys to examine my father when he would writhe in pain. But our pleas always fell on deaf ears. The doctor concerned came in only once a day to check on my father, after which he was left to the mercy of the support staff,” recalled Ramesh. 
 
 Ramesh’s is not an isolated case. Hundreds of hapless families, especially from the economically-weaker sections of the society, make multiple rounds of the hospital but are deprived of proper healthcare. 
 
 Opened with much fanfare in 2008, the super specialty government hospital in Nashik is in dire need of attention. Meant to offer healthcare to patients from rural Nashik and adjoining districts of Nandurbar, Dhule, Jalgaon, the hospital lacks proper infrastructure and staff to provide advanced treatment.
 
 At present, treatment facilities at the 100-bed hospital are available only for patients suffering from cancer, renal and cardiac ailments. While there is only a 50-bed facility for  , there are 30 beds for renal patients and only 20 beds for cancer patients.
 
 A visit to the hospital revealed that patients and relatives make a beeline outside the office of the medical superintendent to make their complaints heard. The hospital staff said the relatives of a patient are often found requesting the medical superintendent to accommodate the patient as taking the ailing patient back home and returning on a future date becomes an uphill task.
 
 Radiotherapy machine lying defunct: In the sprawling premises, most of the wards are locked and the modern equipment is lying defunct. Even the room where cancer patients are given radiotherapy is locked as the machine is not working. 
 
 Senior hospital officials said efforts are under way to get the machine repaired at the earliest. The state government has entered into an agreement with a private agency that would take care of all machineries in the government hospitals across the state—at primary health centres, rural hospitals, district and sub district hospital and the referral hospitals,
 
 The company concerned has also done the mapping of all the machines and would soon initiate the work. If any machine in the hospital is not repaired in a given time-frame, like a ventilator has to be repaired in 72 hours, then the company concerned will have to pay a fine. “The radiotherapy machine at our hospital was initially not included in the set of machines that the private company shall repair under the agreement. However, it has now been added and will get repaired soon,” said officials.
 
 Vacant posts a concern 
 
 for authorities: P N Guthe, the medical superintendent of the regional referral hospital, said the hospital doctors and staff are giving their best to provide quality treatment to the patients. 
 
 But he admitted that there is a dire need for more beds as the flow of patients is constantly increasing and additional manpower is required. “The hospital gets patients not only from Nashik, Jalgaon, Dhule, Nandurbar and Ahmednagar districts but also from Marathwada and Vidarbha. At times, however, it becomes difficult to admit patients. There is shortage of medical officers and paramedical staff,” he said. 
 
 The hospital management has sent a proposal to the government for the expansion of the hospital so that kidney transplants can take place. Moreover, it has requested the government to have staff and infrastructure to start neurology and paediatric treatments.
 
 “Our efforts are under way to get the radiotherapy machine repaired at the earliest. However, we rely more on chemotherapy for cancer patients. Chemotherapy is largely used for cancer patients than giving radio therapy treatment, considering that patients at an advanced stage of cancer come to us to treatment. The radiotherapy machine is needed when the caner is in the first or second stage,” Guthe said. 
 
 Demand for expansion of services: District health officials admitted to TOI that specialised treatment for neurology, gastroenteritis, neonatology are still not available at the hospital. Patients needing specialised treatment for these ailments have to be sent to Mumbai.
 
 “There are two major highways and few state highways passing through Nashik. We get a lot of persons injured in accidents, but are unable to send them for neurological treatment to the referral hospital as it does not have any neurosurgeons,” sources at the district civil hospital said.
 
 According to health officials, a referral hospital must have a gastrosurgeon or a gastroenterologist as government hospitals get a large number of patients suffering from problems related to gall bladder, pancreas, colon, liver or other intestinal problems.
 
 “The government should also take efforts to start providing treatment of plastic surgery at the referral hospital. A large number of patients who suffer from burn injuries need plastic surgery,” sources added. 
 
 Government plans facility 
 
 overhaul: Earlier this month, the state set the ball rolling to start a post-graduate medical college at the referral hospital. On January 11, the state health department gave its nod for funds to modernise equipment at the hospital so that PG courses can be taught at the health hub.
 
 The Maharashtra university of health science (MUHS) has already submitted the proposal to start the college with help from Nashik's referral hospital and civil hospital together.
 
 In addition to this, the state government has also granted permission to the hospital to start procuring state-of-the-art medical equipment to upgrade its existing super-specialty facilities.
 
 The state health department initiated the College of Physicians & Surgeons of Mumbai (CPS) diploma courses at the referral hospital last year.
 
