THANE: After facing constant   of filthy sewage water in their societies even during a drizzle for over a decade, residents of Kalwa’s low-lying Dattawadi area may finally get a nullah soon to solve the problem. Due to the sewage water being collected, a number of infections and diseases were on the rise in the area.

 The Kalwa ward office had sent a team of officials to survey the area and gauge the extent of the issue. The officials will prepare a detailed report on the solution for the same and will begin work at the earliest.
 
 Since 2005, residents of   and many other societies in the area have been facing water logging, which has led to damage of property and vehicles.
 
 Due to this, many residents have taken ill as the polluted, stagnant water is a breeding ground for mosquitoes. So, residents here have complained of suffering from dengue, malaria, leptospirosis, diarrhoea and so on. “Over the years, we have had to wade through knee deep sewage water even if there has been just a drizzle as the drainage water flowing in between the railway tracks and our compound would come gushing in and flood the place. This water would not only flood our societies and damage our cars, but also enter our homes and ruin our valuables. There has also been instances of residents falling ill because of various disease,” said P  , a 65-year-old resident.
 
 Fed up with this menace, P R Khedekar, chairman of the society, wrote a letter to the TMC on August 1.
 
 Khedekar informed the civic body that the main reason for this accumulation of filthy waste water in their society is lack of a nullah between the buildings and railway tracks. The presence of a drainage would act as a passageway for the waste water to flow away from the buildings.
 
 On September 8, the Kalwa ward office sent a team of officials to inspect the area. “The situation is bad. Construction of a nullah is the need of the hour. I am compiling a report, which will be presented before my superiors,” said Deepak Ahire, deputy chief sanitary inspector at Kalwa ward.
 
 Speaking about the plan to mitigate this issue, Vijay Jadhav, the head of the Kalwa Ward, said, “I had sent my team to investigate the issue last week and am awaiting the report. As soon as I receive it, we will do everything possible to resolve the citizens’ grievances at the earliest.”
 
 
