NAGPUR: When   is the buzzword in the country, the coveted Maharashtra State   (MSBB) seems to have gone defunct. The board has not met in 14 months. The last meeting was held on November 9, 2015. It is expected that at least one meeting should be held every three months.

 Vilas Bardekar, a retired IFS officer who was appointed chairman and draws an honorarium of over Rs80,000, is hardly seen at Nagpur-based headquarters of the board. Talking to TOI, Bardekar claimed the board works were going on as planned. 
 
 The board is also functioning without its requisite strength and file for appointment of members is pending in mantralaya for 11 months. Bardekar stated the board had expert members and recommendation of appointing new members had been made. “We will talk in details when we meet in Nagpur,” he added.
 
 However, sources said MSBB chairman's presence in Nagpur office is like a guest doing injustice to the biodiversity rich Vidarbha. MSBB was constituted on January 2, 2012, under the chairmanship of Dr Erach Bharucha in which MLA Vijay Khadse and Kishor Rithe and SR Yadav from   were members for three years. The board’s tenure expired on January 2, 2015. 
 
 Due to elections in 2014, the political members were terminated from the board and two subject experts — Rithe and Yadav-- continued further. The process to appoint a new chairman started in April 2015 and Bardekar was appointed in October 2015. The process of appointing new members was also started in February 2016 but is now stuck.
 
 Recognizing need for continuous engagement and constant dialogue with people as well as strengthening institutional framework as an important element in the effective implementation of the Biological Diversity Act (BDA) is the main focus of the board. According to sources, there is no review of biodiversity management committees (BMCs), which are to be set up at gram panchayat, tehsil, district and corporation levels to conserve biodiversity in respective areas.
 
 Though around 8,000 such BMCs have been formed, they remain mostly on paper. “There is no training of officials and people. In the last one year not a single training session has been held and officials and stakeholders at large don’t even know what the Biodiversity Act is all about,” said sources.
 
 MSBB spent two years developing a course module. The job was entrusted to a Jalgaon-based college, which handed over just three pages as course material. An Amravati-based NGO was ready to develop course content free of cost but it was never asked to go ahead. The state government has given much significance to the biodiversity board by appointing an APCCF rank official as member-secretary but it has failed to become proactive.
 
