KOLKATA:  , the   arrested on Friday from a central  , had produced a   before the appointment committe of   in 2004. His appointment in the OPD was cleared by the hospital management. His appointment letter was signed by current CEO of the hospital, Dr Pradip Tondon.

 A team of CID sleuths came across this information when they visited Belle Vue clinic on Saturday to inspect the circumstances under which Pandey was granted an appointment. “We spoke to Dr Tandon and recorded his statement. At present, we need to go through the records. If required, we might question him later,” said an officer who is leading the Special Investigation Team’s probe into the fake doctors’ network in the state. 
 
 Repeated calls to Tandon by TOI went unanswered. On Friday, Tondon had told TOI that the hospital was conducting an internal inquiry. 
 
 Records from Belle Vue revealed that Pandey was appointed at the OPD on May 1, 2004. “We have found that the registration number he used as a Unani practioner at Belle Vue and the one he was using on his prescription do not match. Hence, we will need to verify if he is even a Unani practioner. So far, we have not found any mala fide intention on the part of Belle Velle. It might be negligence or a mistake, and it is too early to arrive at a conclusion,” said ADG (CID) Rajesh Kumar.
 
 While Pandey insisted during interrogation that he was a Unani practitioner, he has claimed in his social networking site profile to have studied at Xinjiang Medical University. He introduces himself as an allergist and ‘asthmologist’. The visiting card he handed out to patients - from whom he charged as much as Rs 1000 - said he had an MBBS and MD (FIA) degrees from the UK. 
 
 “He defended his right to subscribe allopathic medicines despite having a Unani degree citing a Supreme Court ruling but could not explain why he claimed to have an MBBS degree in his visiting cards,” claimed a CID officer.
 
 A local Bidhannagar court on Saturday sent Pandey to CID custody for nine days.
 
 CID sources said the Belle Vue authorities have been asked to prepare a report on how Pandey managed to remain attached to the clinic for over 13 years. “We have given them some time to draft their response,” explained an officer.
 
 In a related development, the Patuli police on Friday busted a gang that arranged MBBS degrees for as low as Rs 1.5 lakh. Three women running the racket were arrested. They ran an office from Baghajatin’s Ananapally and even arranged LLB and HS degrees for as little as Rs 50,000 and Rs 15,000 each.
 
 The CID, meanwhile, continued questioning the mastermind of the fake marksheet racket who used to provide degrees through a fake medical education board. According to the CID – which arrested Ramesh Chandra Baidya (52) as soon as he stepped out of an Indigo flight from Chennai at Kolkata airport on Thursday – he would demand payments depending on the financial status of his “students”. While an MD degree could be bought for Rs 20 lakh, an MBBS degree came for Rs 8-12 lakh.
 
 According to CID officers, Baidya posed as the secretary of the Alternative Medical Council Calcutta located at Barasat. He had amassed huge wealth and had built himself a palatial home at Noapara near Barasat. “He was in the business for the past three decades. Besides students from Bengal and the neighbouring states, we have documentary evidence to show that students from the US, Italy, Russia, Sri Lanka, Nepal and Bangladesh received “medals” for being “excellent” in studies from this centre in lieu of money,” said Rajesh Kumar, ADG (CID). 
 
