This March marks 50 years of Dravidian rule, since C N Annadurai took charge as chief minister on March 6, 1967. It is also a landmark of sorts for the Tamil film industry which was a tool for propagating  .

 Much has changed in the film industry that was ruled by stars like   and   in 1967. The leading man is no more the conventionally good-looking do-gooder who treats women with respect. The leading man is no more in charge.
 
 Speaking at a recent event marking the 50 years of Dravidian rule on Monday, Tamil film director Karu Pazhaniappan recounted how power changed hands from the hero to the creator over the last fifty years. “Film directors do not run behind stars for their dates anymore. The directors creators are asserting control through content that mirrors society.“
 
 “There is a misconception today that cinema is a route to politics. Actors like M G Ramachandran, Sivaji,  ,   and writers like Jayakan than were already part of politics when they entered films,“ Pazhaniappan said.
 
 In the 1960s, the Tamil film hero was a man of values who embodied Dravidian ideals. While MGR and Sivaji dominated the silver screen, directors like Balachander and C V Sridhar emerged in the shadows.
 
 In view of his political aspirations, MGR built his onscreen image with care.MGR did not believe in straining too much as an actor, but Sivaji went to great lengths to make the audience laugh and cry through his acting. MGR was concerned about the message and chose scenes that would arouse applause.
 
 The 1970s saw black and white films giving way to colour films and the dualtrack audio system to the six-track stereo sound. After becoming chief minister, MGR gave up acting and the vacuum brought in fresh faces like   and Kamal Haasan who would go on to rule the industry over the next decade.
 
 The era also saw the emergence of directors like Balu Mahendra, J Mahendran, Bharathiraja and K Bhag yaraj. “Rajinikanth laid the foundation for today's leading man who bears negative shades. It was Parthiban who solidified that image through `Pudhiya Paadhai,“ Pazhaniappan said. Parthiban acted under his own direction in that film that featured a ruffian who is reformed by a woman he rapes.
 
 Actors like Ramarajan who delivered a hit in `Karagattakaran' tried to follow the image set by MGR but his attempts were greeted with jeers. R Parthiban said, “I am currently trying to make a film for children but I am apprehensive about the business aspect. The children still seem to be drawn to the larger-than-life image portrayed by actors like Ajith and Vijay. We still have a long way to go.“
 
