At first glance,   would come across as a man in a dress, stubble, cropped hair et al. 

 But Alok, and many others like them, who are part of a global movement which is slowly making waves in India too, are, no, not transmen or women, but people who just wish to do away with the concept of gender altogether.
 
 “Being a gender non-conforming person means that I don’t fit into the society’s pre-conceived ideas of ‘man’ or ‘woman’. I am neither, I am just myself!” says Alok, also a poet, who was in Kochi recently for a performance. Since language plays an important part in stamping gender identities, people like Alok don’t wish to be referred to as ‘he’ or ‘she’ but as ‘they’, in the absence of a singular for the pronoun.
 
 Gender identity, they say, is so deeply entrenched in our minds that we never stop a moment to think about why we behave in a certain manner, or are made to do so. “I would say that people are born without genders, but that we become gendered without our consent due to society’s expectations and norms. Gender is not something natural, it is enforced and policed,” says Alok.
 
 And the process begins the moment a baby is born, according to Delphina, an activist, who also doesn’t wish to confirm to either gender. “Doctors look at one particular body part of the baby, and there, its gender is stamped for life! When something as arbitrary as your blood group doesn’t decide your range of socialisation or your employment opportunities, why should gender decide it? And the next thing you know, parents start policing boys if they show a liking for Barbie or a girl for liking guns.”
 
 So how did they arrive at their ideas of gender? “I don’t think there was a particular moment where I ‘knew,’ it was more about a series of scenarios and interactions where gender kept on failing me. As a kid I would insist on wearing all of the clothes that my sister wore – not necessarily because I wanted to be a girl, but because I didn’t want to be a boy,” says Alok, while Delphina says they never understood why they were expected to be aggressive because of a certain body part. “If you are biologically a man, almost all dominant cultures around the world expect you to be aggressive, to take the lead, and assume they have greater privilege. Society also expects those who are biologically women to be submissive, not to be proactive in deciding what to do, and to have lesser privilege. I never felt I had to identify with one or the other.”
 
 At the same time, being gender non-confirming doesn’t mean that they are denying the existence of gender, they say. “Gender is very much a social reality whether I like it or not. I’m not saying we want a society where biological differences don’t exist and everyone is transgender. It’s about giving people the freedom to choose what they want to do. Gender in its current form should not exist. Why does my driving licence or income tax papers want my gender; am I going to drive or pay taxes with those body parts? It is as silly as caste or skin colour and should be done away with,” says Delphina.
 Expectedly, it has not been an easy journey for any of them to live in a world where one’s gender influences every moment of one’s life. “People stare at me, call me different anti-queer and anti-trans slurs, take photos of me without my consent, and laugh at me,” says Alok, who resides in the US.
 
 Another gender non-conformist, Angad, a student who wears kohl and nose studs, says, “Gender is still very much binary to most people. Not a day goes by that I’m not made to feel like a circus animal with many asking me why I am such an attention seeker. It's something that continues to mess with my self-confidence, but it is either this, or the closet. And I’m not planning to go back in there.” 
 
 But none of that is deterring them from following what they believe in. “I explain that I’m just as unabashedly myself as circumstances permit, and I feel the need to be transgender and visible. It is only visibility that brings exposure, and eventually normalisation,” says Angad.
 And while many might brand the idea of not conforming to gender a ‘first-world fad’, the phenomenon could be more common than we think; only many don’t acknowledge it, even to themselves. Angad says, “We aren’t taught about sex legitimately until it’s far too late, let alone gender and sexuality. It’s an absolute mess. Naturally, millions of people out there probably feel different, but they don’t know how to comprehend it.”
 
