Prachi Arya

 Like every year, this year too the various Durga Puja pandals decorated across the city are worth a dekko. While some sport a theme, others take one’s breath away with their themed decor. At the the Cantonment Puja pandal, you are greeted by a 55 feet high  , while at the   pandal, a temple atop a boat makes one look at it in awe. LT goes pandal hopping to tell you more about them...
 
 Model Town welcomes Durga on a boat
 A huge boat made of carved wood has been created at the Mitro Sango committee in   as the pandal this year. The boat depicting the goddess’ vaahan is 50 feet long with a temple on it to lend it a Bengali touch. "The temple too is 60 feet in height. The entrance to the pandal is through the boat," shares VK Tewari, the general secretary of the committee. "We had specially invited carpenters from Kolkata to construct a boat-like theme for us," he adds.
 
 Eiffel tower at   puja greets visitors
 What’s new at the Cantonment pandal is the 55-feet high Eiffel Tower that’s been made at its entrance. Visible from a considerable distance, the tower is attracting huge crowds at the pandal this year. "Marking 65 years of the samiti, we decided to do something different this year," shares SN Pal, president of the Cantonment Puja and Sewa Samiti. He further adds, "The tower, made of LED lights, denotes freedom that people have of travelling these days. It is in a way also to promote tourism."
 
  
  An Eiffel Tower made of LED lights at the Cantonment Durga Puja pandal in Sadar (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal) 
 
 Dancers from Kolkata to entertain at the H.A.L. Durga Puja pandal
 In a bid to be unique and different, the Sri Sri Puja Samiti that organises Durga Puja at HAL decided to invite dance troupes from Kolkata to add to the cultural events during the puja celebrations. "We are celebrating this festival since the past 36 years, and this year we have the famous Kolkata dhaks to play at the puja. We have also invited artistes, the pandits and dance troupes from Kolkata for the puja celebrations at our pandal," says Rambali, president of the samiti.
 
  
  The Durga idol at HAL where the pandal has been decorated by artistes from Kolakata (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal) 
 
 Ancient temples of Kolkata recreated at   Puja Pandal
 The Banga Bharti Samiti has been organising Durga Puja at Bhootnath for the past 39 years. This year, the samiti decided to do something different and recreated ancient temples of Kolkata in their pandal design. "The theme and decoration is based on the oldest temples of Kolkata. The main motive to have this theme for our puja pandal this year was to revive old Bengali traditions and culture. The decorations have been done with LED lights to give a modern and real effect to the theme," said Vidyut Mazumdar, secretary of the committee.
 
  
  Swachh Bharat Abhiyan theme at   (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal) 
 
 Swachh Bharat Abhiyan theme at Shivaji Park
 The Sanskritik Sammilani at Shivaji Park is celebrating 24 years of Durga Puja this year. Situated at  , the theme for Durga Puja pandal is Swachh Bharat Abhiyan where decorations have been done with thermocol to gel with the theme. "This year we are providing free WiFi to all our visitors at the pandal," informs Joy Chatterjee, the secretary of the puja committee. Chatterjee further adds, "We chose this theme because there is a lot of focus on the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan and people are conscious about it. We have also planned several cultural programmes centred around the theme."
 
 
