We are a product of genes that we have inherited from our parents, their parents and other ancestors. While we endeavor to climb out of the shadow of the people who came before us, we cannot change our genetic destiny. For example, if a person is born with blue eyes, he or she cannot change their colour as it is hard wired in the genes. Similarly, several health conditions are also a result of genetic coding, an example of which is hypercholesterolemia (high cholesterol). Some people with a diagnosis of   do not respond to traditional statin therapy for reasons that are as yet unknown. However, a new technique has been developed that would enable doctors to identify a genetic basis for high cholesterol in patients with a family history of the disease.
 
  The genetic testing method, called LipidSeq, was developed at Western University's Schulich School of Medicine & Dentistry. The technique intends to economically identify the genetic links of high cholesterol, without having to look through the entire genetic code. In a study conducted in 313 patients with high cholesterol,   identified a genetic mutation in 64% of the patients: 54% had a single gene mutation, while 13% had mutations in multiple genes, indicating that several corrupted genes were inherited together in those patients. The results of the study also revealed that higher cholesterol levels were more likely to be a consequence of genetic mutations. This method is a revolutionary new way of diagnosing high cholesterol, and will ensure a better standard of care for patients who are likely to have genetic hypercholesterolemia. Since such patients will probably not respond well to conventional treatment methods, alternative therapies may be a better approach.
  
  
  
 
  1. Wang J, Dron JS, Ban MR, et al., Arterioscler Thromb Vasc Biol. 2016 Dec;36(12):2439-2445.
  
  
 
  Dr. Nirmal R. Kolte, MBBS, MD (Medicine), DM (Cardiology), FSCAI, Interventional Cardiologist, Pulse Heart Clinic, Panchavati, Nashik.
  
 : koltenirmal@gmail.com
  
  
  The views and opinions expressed by the Doctors are their independent professional judgment and we do not take any responsibility for the accuracy of their views. This should not be considered as a substitute for Physician's advice. Please consult your treating Physician for more details.
  
  
