CHANDIGARH: A petition has been filed before the   high court, seeking the prosecution of four   personnel who were posted in   when 32 members of a Sikh family were killed at   during the riots in November 1984, .

 The four cops against whom FIR for murder, framing incorrect records and other criminal charges has been demanded, include then Rewari superintendent of police (SP) Satender Kumar, then Jatusana deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Ram Bhaj, then Jatusana station house officer (SHO) Ram Kishore and head constable Ram Kumar.
 
 The matter, which is expected to be heard by May 15, reached the court in the wake of a petition filed by Manwinder Singh, a resident of Ludhiana district, who had had also taken up the matter before the commission of inquiry headed by  that had probed the issue.
 
 The petitioner has sought prosecution of four cops on the basis of the recommendations of Justice Garg Commission that has “revealed the culpability of cops” in the incident. He has referred to the report (para C, page 116) in which the commission had found that entire investigation was carried out in a “slipshod manner.” 
 
 The petitioner also referred to page 110 of the inquiry commission report, regarding role of law enforcement agency in which it has been held that “lack of fear of police was also one of the causes for the happening of such a tragic incident”. Further, while referring to page 117 of the report, the petitioner submitted that “these cops, during the investigation, have contradicted each other in their sworn evidence submitted before commission”.
 
 The petitioner has also stated that record revealed two persons, Rajbir Singh and Rampal, were arrested in relation to the incident but both were discharged as the case was untraced and no evidence could be collected by cops.
 
 The carnage happened on November 2, 1984, after the assassination of then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi. An armed mob had murdered 32 persons and virtually wiped out the entire village. When the incident was brought to light in 2011, the Haryana government had set-up an inquiry commission headed by former high court judge, Justice T P Garg.
 
