NAGPUR: The   ( ) has come out with a clarification to clear confusion on award of doctorate of philosophy ( ) degree. The confusion was created after   made it mandatory for aspirants to take three years leave from office for pursuing the degree. It had asked them to bring a certificate from employer that the company would be granting three years leave for completing the degree.

 In its gazette, notified on July 11 last year, regarding minimum qualifications for appointment of teachers and other academic staff in universities and colleges and measures for the maintenance of standards in higher education, 2010 (Fourth Amendment), the apex body mentioned that the PhD should be in regular mode.
 
 Pro-VC Pramod Yeole had justified NU’s decision to impose the condition, citing this UGC gazette. He had told TOI that PhD was a full-time degree and therefore the candidates need to dedicate entire time for the studies and research.
 
 However, the decision left a majority of candidates in lurch as their employers categorically declined to grant them such a long leave. They approached chancellor of Karad-based Krishna   (Deemed University), Dr Vedprakash Mishra with the grievances.
 
 He then wrote to the UGC seeking its clarification on the issue. “The imposition perhaps must have been on rationale that ‘part time’ PhD programme is not a permissible modality of procurement of the doctoral degree. The condition imposed by NU, is neither tenable nor permissible. The denial of legitimate right was arbitrary and inconsistent with the binding regulations notified by UGC,” he had written in a letter to the UGC.
 
 In reply, the apex body published a detailed clarification through a public notice on March 17, stating that it had considered the issue in its meeting and made necessary amendments. UGC secretary Prof Jaspal Singh Sandhu admitted that they were receiving queries from various stakeholders/universities seeking clarification with regard to definition of the word ‘regular mode’.
 
 “PhDs which are pursued either full time or part time, will be treated as degrees awarded through regular mode provided these are in conformity with the existing statutes/bylaws/ordinances etc, of the degree awarding university. However, the PhD acquired under distance mode is not permitted,” the UGC notification mentioned.
 
 Vice chancellor SP Kane stated that they received the notification though a mail and they wouldn’t be imposing the new condition on the candidates. He however stated that they were yet to get its copy officially from the UGC and would take another couple of days for it to reach NU.
 
 With a view to curb plagiarism in PhD degrees, NU came out with tougher norms by replacing its older version of PhD entrance test (PET) with new one having PET-I and PET-II which thoroughly checks candidates’ knowledge in particular subject. It had also started online registration for the aspirants, who cleared both PETs from December last year. 
 
