ALWAR: Already facing the ire of locals for not being able to save the life of 50-year-old   who was thrashed to death by people who suspected he was taking cows for slaughtering, the   is now facing anger of locals for its investigation. Locals and some religious organisations on Monday alleged that police is dragging innocents in this case. 

 Janta Sena, a local organisation in Behror held a protest against Alwar police on Monday and questioned the police investigation so far. "It appears that under political pressure the police is trying to implicate innocents in this case. If the police will not take proper action and book the real culprits behind the act, we will take our protests up to Delhi," said Baljeet Yadav head of Janta Sena on Monday.
 
 Yadav added that police were also intimidating some youths and their families and asking them to pay between Rs 5 and Rs 15 lakh, else their names would be added in the FIR.
 
 "We have also sent a memorandum to chief minister Vasundhara Raje. Those six named in the FIR were not present on the spot and had helped police to take the seized cows to the cow shelter," Yadav alleged.
 
 He further stated that six names were added in the FIR under heavy political pressure by the police.
 
 Azmat, who too was thrashed along with 14 others including Pehlu, is critical. He too opined that police have not arrested the actual culprits behind the incident. "Our statements have not been taken on record so far. Neither Haryana government nor Rajasthan government has announced any kind of compensation for us," said Azmat.
 
 District secretary CPM, Raheesa too alleged that the police is trying to save the six arrested accused. "Those who were named in the FIR are of the reputed families of Behror thus police were not arresting them," she added.
 
 When contacted, Rahul Prakash, superintendent of police, Alwar, said, "Our teams are working to arrest the accused. We have already constituted three teams and are studying the video footage of the case. Apart from the six named whoever is seen in the video and caught would be arrested."
 
 After the death of Pehlu Khan on April, 4 police had named six persons in the FIR and lodged the same case of murder against 200 people in this case.
 
