MOHALI: The problem of   has reached dangerous proportions throughout  , one of the fastest growing towns in the  .

 The problem is severe in some parts of town including Lohgarh, where wires hang as low as two feet from the ground.
 
 Residents informed that kids often hung on to wires while playing without knowing that their lives is at stake. Forced to live in a constant fear, they have criticized the   administration for not taking any corrective measure.
 
 Lohgarh residents said they had been submitting several complaints on loose wires for the past many years, but the situation has only worsened. “The authorities are simply waiting for the some tragedy to happen and then they might do something it,” they said.
 
 Gurmeet Singh, a resident of Lohgarh, said, “Wires hanging from the electricity transformer are going to kill someone if the administration does not act quickly. The wires are so low that people can dry their clothes on them. Some residents even do such things, but the administration seems to be least bothered.”
 
 The problem has also aggravated since the onset of monsoon. Live and loose wires hanging from electricity poles on roads, particularly in localities of the town, have become a major threat.
 
 The TOI took stock of the situation in different areas of Zirakpur and detected the problem of loose wires almost everywhere. Electricity meters were installed in the open and their naked wires could be touched by even a kid.
 
 Even the electricity junction boxes of street lights and electricity meters lacked lids, which again poses a serious threat to lives of residents.
 
 The situation in villages is worse as compared to private societies. People chain their cycles, rehris and even auto-rickshaws with high-voltage electricity poles in streets.
 
 There are no safety switches, instruction boards or warning signs. Residents alleged live and loose wires can be seen everywhere except in the VIP areas.
 
 Derabassi MLA N K Sharma said, “We will soon start the work under which all the electricity cables will go underground. We have passed the agenda of the same, and tenders will be floated soon.”
 
 Pawan Singh, a resident of Lohgarh, said the live electricity wires hanging loose from the poles are a big threat to the lives. The situation is going to get worse with the population rising and the department of electricity turning a blind eye, he added.
 
 He said, “We have been living here for the past many years, but no one has ever bothered to cover or remove these naked wires.”
 
 
