Vadodara: The Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) has issued a show cause notice to a senior engineer after grave irregularities came to light over affordable housing schemes in the city. The VMC has spent more than Rs 58crore on these schemes without necessary concurrence from the standing committee of the civic body. Additional city engineer F J Charpot got the notice after irregularities came to light regarding the phase III of the housing blocks that have come up under the Basic Services for the Urban Poor (BSUP) scheme under the Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission (JnNURM) and the Rajiv Aavas Yojana (RAY).  The specifications of amenities provided under the scheme were changed and additional work was done only with an in principle approval from the municipal commissioner. No final nod for making the expenses was taken. As many as 4,096 houses were to be constructed in the BSUP phase III at Kalali and Sayajipura. Altering the original plan of having four-storey structures it was decided to construct five-storey structures at these sites. These increased the cost of construction significantly. The specifications of frames and fixtures in doors and windows of the houses were also changed. The area to be covered with wall tiles in bathrooms and toilet was also altered. Besides changes in specifications increasing cost, additional cost was also incurred by resorting to landfilling at the site. Against an original tender of Rs 104crore, the project cost went up to Rs 138crore as the contractor could not begin work in time and another agency had to be given the work. But with alterations an additional expense of Rs 58crore was incurred taking the total project cost to Rs 196crore. In the RAY schemes it had come to light that the pile foundations made for the project were beyond specifications and had led to extremely high costs. While the difference is yet to be worked out, it is expected to increase the costs of houses significantly and the beneficiaries may not be able to bear it. VMC commissioner Dr Vinod Rao said that the notice was issued after a committee appointed to probe the matter submitted its report. “As of now it is a case of irregularity and we cannot call it a scam,” he said.