LONDON: At 37, Venus is the oldest player left in the women's draw. On Monday, she'll play the youngest in 19-year-old   of Croatia in what promises to be an explosive fourth-round meeting at  .

 The American, however, said she won't be thinking of age when she's on the court. Rather, as the only former winner still left in the draw, she'll use the experience to counter young energy.
 
 Venus, playing her 20th tournament at SW19, a venue where she's enjoyed most success, came into the grasscourt major under a cloud of darkness. Early last month, she was involved in a car crash that killed a septuagenarian not far from her gated community home. Police had said she was to blame initially, but new evidence that emerged late last week saw investigating authorities say she had legally entered the Florida intersection.
 
 The American, a five-time champion here who had broken down in tears in an early media briefing at Wimbledon, has had to work for her wins. She, however, appears to be more in control on and off the court now.
 
 Venus would look to carry that momentum on the court in her clash against the 29thranked Konjuh, who she has never faced before.
 
 "I just try to play the best I can. I've played three matches now and had zero breathing room in any of them. My opponents played well, served well, competed well at all moments. I've had to step it up. I imagine that's going to continue. All I can do is try to be my best," Venus said.
 
 Should she survive the Konjuh challenge, Venus could face the French Open winner  , 20, in the quarterfinals.
 
 Venus put her longevity down to love of the game. "I love doing this," she said. "You have to. It's a lot of work, a lot of pressure. It's not easy. Just love."
 
 
 
  kept her act going at Wimbledon, staying alive in both the doubles and mixed-doubles draws.
 
 Sania and Croatia's Ivan Dodig, seeded fourth, scored a 7-6 (7-5), 6-2 win over the Japanese pairing of   and   late on Saturday to move into the third round.
 
  and Canada's Gabriela Dabrowski, the French Open winners, will play the Croatian pairing of Ana Konjuh and   in the third round.
 
