LUCKNOW: The 500m stretch between Mawaiyya and Charbagh is a nightmare for commuters as it remains choked throughout the day because of Uttar Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation ( ) buses being parked haphazardly from   till  .

 The   is a vital link between the airport and Charbagh railway station.The traffic department said that the prime cause of the problem is inadequate parking space in the UPSRTC-run  . Though hundreds of buses operate daily from there, it has parking space for only 60. As a result, the buses are parked on the road leaving little space for other vehicles. Commuters complained that it takes over 45 minutes to cross the stretch which in normal circumstances can be covered in just 10 minutes.They added that no policemen are there to manage the traffic. “I live in Mawaiyya and commute daily from Charbagh to Kanpur for business. It takes me 50 minutes to cover the distance due to the traffic jam,“ said Madhav Das Gupta, who was se en stuck near Durgapuri.
 
 “Even though I have to take a detour of 3km, I take the route from Mawaiyya towards the railway yard and pass through Cantt and KKC trisection to reach Ravindralaya from Durgapuri to avoid the unbearable situation,“ said Altamash Khan, a daily commuter from Durgapuri to Charbagh Superintendent of traffic, Ravi Shankar Nim, said, “We have issued challans several times and also written to UPSRTC to shift their buses elsewhere. We have also deployed three extra traffic constables to tackle the situation.“ “We have shortlisted three parking lots for the buses. The problem will end once the lots become operational. The project is pending because of financial issues,“ said UPSRTC regional manager, AK Singh.
 
 Times View
 
 New UPSRTC parking lots N will take time as the project has been delayed due to financial constraints, but he corporation cannot shelve its responsibility. For the time being, it can at least direct bus drivers to park vehicles on road side in a manner that they don't affect regular traffic. Sufficient time gaps between arrival and departure of buses can also avoid congestion.
 
