CHANDIGARH: The   is not only a very agile climber but has the capacity to create quite a commotion in its pursuit of squirrel cubs high up on mango tree! On Sunday afternoon, one such specimen snaked up a tree to nests at 25 feet and proceeded to raid them but was spotted by the family of professor Anil   residing on the Panjab University campus. The snake was finally “rescued” but not before the fire brigade, the university’s security staff under their chief, Vikram Singh, and two snake-rescue personnel spent four hours wracking their brains and testing their limbs to snare the wily serpent that can scale trees like a superfast parasitic vine or ivy.

 Though the Rat snake is a non-venomous species and preying on the nesting young of squirrels and birds is its natural right, city folks get nervous and demand the snake’s removal (also known as “rescue”) or simply bludgeon it to death. The Rat snake can grow to 10 feet and it can look very intimidating though it seldom inflicts its non-venomous bite on humans. It is far too keen to get away from humans and keep a safe distance! 
 
 “We spotted the snake going up the mango tree on our back boundary. We tried to chase it away but it would climb back. So, we asked for help as we very scared. Even though I know Rat snakes are non-venomous but such reptiles create a scare in the family,” professor Kumar of the University Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences and residing at E1/18, Sector 14, PU campus, told  . 
 
 “The snake had climbed the tree and could not be seen. When I climbed up, there was a dense growth of branches and leaves, among which were squirrel nests. So, it was decided to hack the branch with the nests. When the branch fell down, we still could not find the snake. I knew that it was holed up in one of the nests, as the snake will gobble all the squirrel cubs one by one before leaving the nest. I removed the branches and leaves from the branch, which had been cut, and shook the nest. The snake suddenly emerged from the nest and made a dash for it and I was able to catch it,” said the Tricity’s veteran snake-rescue personnel,  .
 
 The snake was later rehabilitated in Chandigarh’s peripheral jungles. Rat snakes have surfaced frequently at PU due to abundance of greenery and adjoining jungles and nallahs. The Rat snake is known to climb down wells and prey on birds nesting in the cavities of the walls. Chicks of the Rose-ringed parakeet also fall victim to Rat snakes, and to even Spectacled cobras, who keep a watch for bird parents attending to chicks in nests in tree holes and on branches.
 
