MUMBAI: Residents living in the vicinity of   temple,  , woke to the sorry sight of decades-old trees having been reduced to stumps at Sane Guruji Udyan Friday. Large drilling machines and cranes stood victoriously over logs of wood strewn inside the park. Several trees that are reportedly over a hundred years old, including a sturdy banyan, have been felled for the construction of Metro III that will run from Colaba to SEEPZ. Sane Guruji garden, a green verdant haven, has transformed into a bald brown patch.

 Engineer Pradnya Morje lives in   overlooking the park. She says, "My heart skipped a beat at the shocking sight Friday. We have grown up playing in this garden which had scores of robust Indian varieties of trees. Our childhood was nurtured in their shade. I studied at Convent Girls' high school and my friends and I played here because our school did not have a playground." She provided before and after pictures which showed the stark denudation.
 
 Another resident Santosh Bhonkar says, "This location is a silence zone given the presence of Siddhivinayak temple,   and Rachana Sansad school of architecture. Yet tree cutting work continues from early morning till late in the night. No sound barriers have been installed either."
 
 Deforestation has been under way sporadically. On May 21 one set of trees that were over 100 years old was felled near Siddhivinayak at the edge of the plot. On February 11, the residents of Prabhadevi had been delighted to read that the Bombay high court had stayed the felling of trees along the metro route. That very night though the axe came down on.Sane Guruji Udyan. Later, the HC vacated the stay and now felling action is in full swing.
 
 Morje says, "Why can the trees not be skirted or replanted? The BMC in fact transplanted two peepul trees in this very garden 20 years ago and they are thriving. London city has a 2,000 year old Roman Wall just outside Tower Hall underground metro station which still stands tall while we in Mumbai are on a rampage to bring down everything that comes in the Metro's way. The engineers and planners of the project must go back to the drawing board and find the right balance. Otherwise in the quest of modernism we will end up uprooting our roots and our identity as Mumbaikars."
 
