In what could be the first instance of Indian students appearing for board exams in another country, a Mumbai   and her teammate from Nagpur took their Std X   exams on Friday in Berlin, Germany where they were playing a tournament.
 
   , 15, from Ryan International (ICSE),  , and  , 16, from  , Nagpur wrote the English paper at the   in Berlin from 9 am to 11 am (Berlin time), three hours before their second-round match in the  .
  
  The fact that they could appear for exams in another Continent was good enough a reason to celebrate for Simran and Ritika, even though the pair, ranked number one in the country in under-17 category, failed to win the match.
  
  Till a couple of days ago, the girls were not sure whether they will be able to appear for the exams, and that also weighed heavily on their parents’ mind, who were reluctant to send them to Germany for the tournament.
  
  However, management of both the schools, the Council for the  , officials from the  , and the Indian diplomats pulled off a remarkable co-ordination to ensure the question papers reached the Indian Embassy in Berlin in time and the two didn’t miss out on an academic year.
  
  The council’s chief executive and secretary Gerry Arathoon told Mumbai Mirror that this was in keeping with its philosophy of giving priority to students’ interests. “It is a proud moment for the schools and the council that these two girls are representing India in an international sports tournament. The examination schedules for this year were changed due to the elections and they would have lost an entire year because their first paper was clashing with their tournament. Hence we arranged to send the question paper to the Indian Embassy in Berlin,” Arathoon said.
  
  When asked whether this was the first instance of Indian students appearing for the exams abroad, he recalled students taking exams in hospitals, but not in another country. Ritika and Simran are scheduled to return to India over the weekend and will appear for the second paper in their respective centres on March 15.
  
  Simran’s parents Aman and Poonam Singhi admitted they were unsure of sending her to Germany because of the exam schedule clashing with the tournament, and said they were “most grateful to the school and the Council”.
  
  “It’s a huge tournament but we were not sure whether to send our child because of the danger of losing an academic year. We are extremely happy about the support now being extended to young sportspersons,” Simran’s father Aman said. “We would like to thank Madam Grace Pinto, MD of the Ryan Group, the school principal, Snehal Pinto, the ICSE and the Badminton Association of India for making sure our daughter could appear for the exam all the way in Berlin,” he said.
  
  Ritika’s father Rahul Thaker was also overwhelmed by the support provided to his daughter. “The school director, Nisha Saraf, and principal Kenneth Mendonsa deserve credit for facilitating the permissions. Also, the district, state and national badminton federations were prompt in completing the paperwork that enabled the girls to appear for the exams,” he said from Nagpur.
  
  “The test was important to Simran and her parents and so, we tried our best to make it happen. Fortunately, we live in a nation where nothing is impossible. Thanks to the Council (ICSE), the Badminton Federation and embassy officials at Berlin, she was able to appear for the exam and also represent our nation,” said Snehal Pinto.
