ALLAHABAD: Drawing a lesson from Ryan murder of Gurugram, the secondary education department ( ) has directed the 24,342 government, aided and unaided schools affiliated to the Board to install   cameras outside school washrooms to ensure security and safety of over 35 lakh students.

 Besides, the students have also been barred from carrying smart phones to school and will be informed about the dangers of the ‘deadly’ online   and ‘hukka bars’ mushrooming in cities all over the state. The schools have also been instructed to install CCTV cameras in every nook and corner of the campus to keep an eye on unwanted activities.
 
 In a letter issued by Board’s deputy director Mohd Ibrahim on September 12, the district inspector of schools (DIoS) have been asked to implement the directions for the overall safety of students.
 
 “The state government had earlier asked the UP Board to make it mandatory for schools seeking recognition to install cameras for the surveillance of teachers. Now students’ security aspects will be given priority,” said district inspector of schools R N  . The Board had even made amendments in decades-old regulations to ensure that application of the educational institutions applying for recognition without adhering to the CCTV norms get rejected.
 
 Vishwakarma said following reports of students falling prey to online Blue Whale Challenge game, the new norms also mandate the schools to conduct awareness campaigns and tell the students about the loss of lives and psychological impact that the game is having on kids.
 
 “The directions aim at stopping children from playing Blue Whale Challenge game,” said Vishwakarma.
 
 A blanket ban has also been put on bringing smartphones by students to schools. “The head of schools have been asked to discourage and check students from bringing such phones with them,” he added.
 
 “Furthermore, taking cognizance of students getting addicted to ‘hukkas’ in the mushrooming of ‘hukka bars’ in cities, we will also conduct programmes to make students aware about the dangers of consuming tobacco,” the DIoS told TOI.
 
 
