AHMEDABAD: People who want their pets, especially dogs, to mate will have to register themselves as ‘breeders’ of the animal as only registered breeders will be allowed to breed animals. The draft Prevention Of Cruelty to Animals (Dog Breeding and Marketing) Rules-2016 states that anyone who wants his dog to breed will have to register with the state board which will be under the  .

 A person who registers as a ‘breeder’, will have to give details of where the pet was purchased and also provide the animal’s micro-chip number. Sources said the chip will be supplied by the state board which will source the same from the Animal Welfare Board of India. The new draft law further states that a breeder shall not allow his animals to breed unless he has pre-screened people on waiting list keen to adopt the puppies.
 
 Sources said that according to the draft act, the breeder should furnish buyer details in writing, details of feeding, dates of inoculations and of de-worming of the puppies as also the name and address of the veterinary practitioner who had attended to the puppies.
 
 The breeder should keep track of all the pups and monitor the health of dogs sold or given by him for at least one year, the draft law says. However, those pups which are not rehabilitated in six months will have to be given to an animal welfare organization recognized by the state board.
 
 NGOs and dog lovers, however, call the proposed law a ‘toothless act’ as backyard breeding was rampant in the state and country. The new law will lead to harassment of individuals as any person who is appointed a volunteer can enter the premises of a person and ask for details.
 
 Harmesh Bhatt, who runs  , said that this is something not warranted. 
 
 “If a person decides to go in for breeding his pet, he will have to identify new owners first and promise more people as he will be unaware of the litter size,” he said. 
 
 “Further, for certain breeds like pomeranians, the cost of the micro-chip will be more than the cost of the dog. This would make buying of pets unaffordable for dog lovers,” Bhatt said.
 
 Echoing a similar view, Richa Singh Choudhuri, a voluntary animal rescuer, said the draft bill does not address the problem of backyard breeders, that is, people illegally go for forceful mating of dogs and do not follow any norms. “Moreover, what is important is to introduce stricter penalties as a paltry fine of Rs 50 allows abusers to get away with such cruelty,” she said.
 
 “It is good to find laws being introduced to mandate registration of breeders and specifying the age of adoption of puppies. But the draft law still lacks measures to curb illegal breading which is even undertaken by pet shops and also recommended by veterinary doctors,” Choudhary said.
 
 Nitin Goswami, secretary of Ahmedabad canine club, said the draft law addresses cruelty against pets but if the police or the state board rescues the animal, it is sent to the shelter home where they are kept in the most inhumane and unhygienic conditions. “So far, cruelty was dealt with by the police but now anyone who is appointed by the state board will be taking action and harassing pet lovers,” Goswami said.
 
 
