MUMBAI: “Time is the most precious thing in the whole universe and you may get everything like money, fame or property back but can never get that youth or time back,” said a bench of Justice V M Kanade and Justice A S Gadkari of the   on Wednesday even as they dismissed an appeal against a wife’s withdrawal of consent to a joint divorce plea.

 The bench, lamented that lives get wasted in long-drawn matrimonial litigation. It observed how there were many appeals from family court orders pending in the high court where young couples, locked out of each other’s lives are however locked in prolonged court proceedings. The court was hearing an appeal filed by a Parsi husband against his Parsi wife challenging an order passed last year by the family court disallowing their mutual consent plea for divorce after the wife withdrew her consent. 
 
 His case argued by advocate Armaity Khushrushahi was that the marriage of 2008, solemnized under the Special Marriage Act, had irretrievably broken down and he is unable to start a family as the wife despite taking almost Rs 15 lakh of his “hard-earned” money under the consent terms filed in 2015, had backed out of the mutual consent divorce.
 
 “We feel it is unfortunate. So many such cases come in appeal, where marriages are irretrievably broken down. So many family court appeals are pending for years,” Justice Kanade said. Dictating the order, he said, “Article 142 of the Constitution vests residuary power in the Supreme Court allowing it to mould a relief, which cannot be granted under statutory law, in the interest of justice.”
 
 “In view of so many appeals from the family court pending, the question is whether the high courts can exercise the same power as is vested in the SC under Article 142. The answer is in the negative. The SC had held that neither the HC nor the trial court has the power to do so,” said the court adding, “The SC ruling is binding on the high court, but a question can be posed before the SC to consider the ground reality.’’
 
 The HC dismissed the appeal holding that the wife had every right to withdraw her consent in view of the law laid down by the SC in 2011, as cited by wife’s court-appointed counsel Shyam Mehta, that a spouse can withdraw the consent at any time till the consent decree is granted six months after filing a joint divorce petition.
 
 
