MUMBAI: ‘Fling my ashes in the Western Ghats/They’ve always seemed like home. May the leopards develop a taste for poetry/The crows and kites learn to/Modulate their voices’, reads a verse from one of the last few poems by 76-year-old Eunice de   — noted poet, English literature teacher, critic and novelist.   passed away at her Vakola residence on Saturday. 

 Such verses, dripping with her astringent, economical wit, now linger as afterlife for fellow poets, writers and exstudents of St Xavier’s College on whom this silver-choker-sporting, sarcasmdrenched teacher left an enduring spell of decimating one-liners and enriching literary insights. Shocked by news of her demise, many poets and students alike wrote 140-character eulogies on social media suffixed with lines culled from her acidic first book of poems ‘Fix’ and her nuanced last collection, ‘Learn From the Almond Leaf.’
 
 De Souza, born in Pune in 1940, wrote five collections of poems and two novels and edited several anthologies. With a masters from Marquette University, Wisconsin, US, and a doctoral degree from the University of Mumbai, she was head of department of English at St Xavier’s for 30 years. Her writings were chiefly preoccupied with love, the oppression of women, and the Goan Catholic community of suburban Mumbai. “There was a time when the Catholic community was considered a separate unit from Bombay, and De Souza’s role in establishing the group as part of Bombay’s social fabric cannot be underplayed,” says writer Kiran Nagarkar about the poet known for using colloquial Bandra English in her poems such as the popular ‘De Souza Prabhu’, in which she tells the story of a ‘Brahmin Catholic’.
 
 A line from a poem she wrote after meeting some poets is etched in poet Ranjit Hoskote’s memory: “Best to meet them in poems.”
 
 “She was an inspiring and powerful influence,” says Hoskote, who read her retellings of the Akbar and Birbal series as a child. “Her poems had a liberating influence on women. They spoke about predicaments and there was a certain politics to the tone,” he says.
 
 In her students de Souza inspired both reverence and terror. “My friends who were her students used to call her ‘Kali, the mother Goddess’,” recalls Hoskote. Her go-to accessory was a silver choker that fellow makeup-shunning feminists would criticize her for adorning. “She’d warn her women students against going down conventional paths,” says  , a student from the ’92 batch whom de Souza introduced to ‘modernist’ writing.
 
 “Once I disagreed with her opinion on a film and she told me I thought too much of myself,” says  , who went on to top the board exams in English by scoring 78 on 100, a score that elicited a reluctant compliment from de Souza: “It’s not really high, but it’s good.”
 
 Her one-liners on distracted students, such as “Are you here or are you having a mystical experience?”, were treated as collector’s items in class.
 
 “She made us look beyond textbooks,” says Parveez Shaikh, a screenplay writer. “Whether you were her student or not, you knew what she stood for,” says filmmaker Paromita Vohra.
 
