MALAPPURAM: More than 13 lakh voters, including 1.14 lakh first timers, are expected to exercise their franchise in the   to the   Lok Sabha constituency on Wednesday.

 P K Kunhalikutty of the Indian Union Muslim League, M B Faizal of CPM and N Sreeprakash of the BJP are the main contenders for the seat, which fell vacant after the February 1 death of E Ahamed, former Union minister and   leader.
 
 Six independent candidates are also in the fray. As many as 13,12,693 voters would be casting their votes in 1100 polling stations.
 
 The election commission has made elaborate arrangements to avoid any incident of failure of electronic voting machines (EVMs) in polling stations.
 
 The special arrangements were made in view of the mass failure of EVMs during the previous local body election in the district. The voting process had turned into a harrowing experience for thousands of voters in various parts of the district, after electronic voting machines(EMV) malfunctioned in more than 150 polling booths across the district. Repolling was then conducted in 100 stations.
 
 A total of 1175 control and ballot units have been provided for polling in addition to the reserve machines. Fourteen technical engineers have also been deployed in various regions to address technical issues in a time bound manner.
 
 As many as 2,300 security officials have been deployed to ensure a smooth and fair polling.
 
 The distribution of voting machines and other polling material was held in seven distribution centres in Malappuram on Tuesday. After the voting process, the sealed voting machines would be shifted to the counting centre at   in Malappuram. The counting would be held on April 17.
 
 In the 2014   polls, Ahamed had won the seat by a margin of 1,94,739 votes against CPM’s P K Sainaba. 
 
 UDF sought votes to protect secularism and strengthen secular forces at the national level while LDF attacked BJP on various issues. 
 
  BJP highlighted the achievements the NDA government at the Centre and the "anti-people" policies of Kerala government. 
 
