CHENNAI: A major fire raged for more than six hours at the   on Friday evening, alarming firefighters who struggled to contain the spread.   at the spot said that the   gathered after   had caught fire. An official said that the fire was caused due to release of methane gas from the garbage atop which the tree waste had been dumped.

 As many as 17 firefighting vehicles, including Metrowater tankers (each containing 9,000 litres), were pressed into service. Residents said the fire started around 5pm. “There is severe smoke and all of us are suffering with burning sensations in our throat,“ said Ganesan Perumal, who resides opposite the toxic landfill. “We have never seen anything like this in more than five years as burning garbage in the dump yard was banned.“
 
 Firefighters found it difficult to navigate to the source of the fire amid the piles of garbage in the landfill spread over 200 acres. “Workers tried to douse the fire but it kept spreading and we are continuously pressing more services,“ said fire and rescue services joint director M Shahul Hameed monitoring from the spot.
 
 Residents say a foul smell, more intense than usual, had been wafting from the landfill for more than a week.
 
 Last month, TOI reported that residents of Kodungaiyur and Perungudi were worried about the risk of fires erupting in the dump yards where the debris of trees felled across the city by cyclone Vardah on December 12, 2016, had been dumped.
 
 From December to January , 153 fires were reported across the city in temporary dumping spots for tree debris.
 
 The corporation had auctioned off the wood, but the logs rendered non-saleable had been packed off to landfills. “We could not auction off the leaves, twigs and logs which had no sale value,“ said corporation deputy commissioner (works) K S Kandasamy. Commissioner D Karthikeyan, regional deputy commissioner (north) Praveen Nair and other senior officials were present at the spot late in the night.
 
 —Divya Chandrababu
 
 
