MUMBAI: Amid  ,   has slowed down to less than 5kmph on several stretches, shows a   done for TOI, which tracks vehicular flow at 50 of the busiest spots in the city using  . The worst stretches included Goregaon-Mulund Link Road, LBS Marg and Jacob Circle on Tuesday.   on these routes was equally snail-paced on Monday.

 The other stretches that saw slow-moving traffic included Aarey Check Naka, Hill Road and Linking Road in Bandra, Behraum Baug in Jogeshwari, Milan Subway in Santacruz and Old Hanuman Road in Kalbadevi, where the average speed was less than 7kmph. 
 
 Experts warn that stretches on the arterial Western Express Highway (WEH) and Link Road where metro work is on, are likely to witness major snarls for the next few years. They suggest checks on use of vehicles by way of congestion charges, heavy parking fees and high taxes on purchase of second vehicles.
 
 The stretch between Savarkar flyover and Grand Sarovar Premiere on Goregaon-Mulund Link Road (GMLR) saw slowest moving traffic in the city at 2kmph on Tuesday. It was as slow on Monday. 
 
 When asked about the jams —a normal feature during monsoon—joint commissioner of police (traffic) Amitesh Kumar admitted that Monday’s downpour hit vehicular movement, especially on the western corridor and WEH. “We have taken special measures now to handle traffic on WEH, which has helped improve the speed from Tuesday.” 
 
 Transport expert Jagdeep Desai said poor management of heavy vehicles was the major issue affecting traffic. “There is absolutely no lane discipline on WEH or on other arterial roads. If heavy vehicles ply only on the extreme left lane, this can ensure better speed of vehicles. Also, breaks in dividers at every little distance affect movement as few vehicles try to take a U-turn.” Traffic engineering expert Trupti Amritwar said getting rid of haphazard parking along roads was the key to reducing congestion. 
 
 Waterlogging added to the chaos. Malad subway and SV Road at Malad were flooded as early as 7.30am. Link Road saw bumper-to-bumper traffic on Marve Road to Mith Chowky. 
 
  Potholes on Kherwadi flyover north-bound slowed traffic on WEH. Andheri subway was waterlogged in the morning and was shut for traffic. The stretch near the J B Nagar metro station was waterlogged. “Around 4.30pm, snarls had already begun on the north-bound of WEH. It took me half an hour to drive from Mahim Causeway to Kalanagar,” said Bhavna Shah, a teacher. 
 
 Broken-down vehicles obstructed traffic at Sion Hospital bridge, Anand Nagar toll plaza south-bound, Cotton Green on Eastern Freeway, Shreyas junction at Ghatkopar, Jagannath Shankar Seth bridge and Byculla bridge south-bound. (Inputs by Nitasha Natu)
 
 
