PUNE: Maharashtra will showcase the life and times of   in its tableau titled ‘Swaraj Rath’ during the   parade on Rajpath in Delhi this year.

 Officials at the directorate of cultural affairs told TOI that the tableau was getting the final touches and they hoped it would emerge as the winner, just like 2015. The state did not participate last year. 
 
 “The year coincides with the 160th birth anniversary of the freedom fighter, so the state government decided the tableau should be themed after him. The year also marks the 100th year of Tilak’s famous slogan ‘Swaraj is my birth right and I shall have it’. We are making all attempts to ensure our tableau is well received and wins the first position,” an official from the directorate said.
 
 A total of 23 tableaux — seventeen by states and Union territories and six by various government departments — will be on display at the 68th Republic Day event.
 
 The front portion of Maharashtra’s tableau has a statue of the freedom fighter writing on his desk. The portion behind this depicts the printing of newspapers ‘Mahratta’ and ‘Kesari,’ both of which were started by Tilak. 
 
 “Apart from this, Tilak started the Ganeshotsav and   in a bid to bring about social awakening and unity. This is also portrayed in this portion of the tableau. Not many people know that he (Tilak) was also a penchant of good health and was fond of wrestling and ‘Mallakhamba’ (a traditional Indian sport in which a gymnast performs with a vertical pole or rope). Both sports are also reproduced by artists,” the official added.
 
 Apart from being an ardent freedom fighter, Tilak was a powerful orator, social reformer and a journalist. The bottom part of the tableau will portray these qualities, besides his struggle for freedom. 
 
 “The front of the bottom part of the tableau has another statue of Tilak arguing in court. As he was jailed for six years, a part of the tableau is a scene of a prison cell with Tilak reading. Artistes will sing and dance to a devotional song on Lord Ganesha around the tableau. The cost of the tableau cannot be divulged, but we are sure it will be impressive and win laurels for the state,” another official said.
 
 The official also said Puneites would find a connection with him through the tableau as   studied in Deccan College. 
 
 It has been prepared by Mumbai-based artist Chandrashekhar More, who had also prepared a tableau of the annual Wari to Pandharpur pilgrimage in 2015. 
 
 It had won the first prize. “We hope to repeat the feat,” the official said.
 
