Coimbatore: In a case of revenge killing, a four-member gang hacked to death two men, one of them a murder case accused out on bail, in broad daylight at Selvapuram here on Friday afternoon. All the four have surrendered before the Selvapuram police.

 The deceased were identified as S Selvam alias Selvaraj, 38, and Anandh, an auto driver, both from Selvapuram North.
 
 Selvaraj was arrested this June for the murder of G Vindhokumar, 36, and lodged at the Coimbatore Central Prison. He came out on conditional bail three days ago and was chatting with his friend Anandh at Selvapuram on Friday afternoon when four friends of Vinodhkumar surrounded the duo and attacked them with sickles.
 
 In an attempt to escape, Anandh started his autorickshaw and Selvaraj got into it. The gang followed the duo in two motorcycles and started to assault Selvaraj. Anandh then stopped the auto and jumped off it along with Selvaraj. The four followed the duo and hacked Anandh to death near a public toilet. They caught Selvaraj at the ground floor of an apartment, attacked him severely and left him bleeding profusely.
 
 The locals informed the Selvapuram police, who took Selvaraj to the Coimbatore Medial College and Hospital (CMCH), where he died without responding to the treatment. Police also sent Anandh’s body to the CMCH for postmortem.
 
 The four, identified as Babu, 22, S Surya, 20, N Mohanraj, 20, and R Surya, 20, all hailing from Devendra Street at Selvapuram, meanwhile, surrendered before the Selvapuram police. The police have taken them to Peelamedu (crime) police station for questioning.
 
 On June 2, G Vinodhkumar, of Sivaram Nagar in Sungam, was hacked to death by a Selvaraj and T Raja alias Gundu Raja, 38, of North Housing Unit in Selvapuram.
 
 Vinodhkumar, who was engaged in real estate, money laundering business and two-wheeler consultancy, had some money dispute with Raja, with whose wife he was in a relationship. Vinodhkumar had taken some photographs of her and threatened her to post the same on social media. The woman informed Raja about this. Menawhile, Vinodhkumar hatched a conspiracy to attack Raja with the help of his friends. When Raja came to know about this, he with the help of Selvaraj murdered Vinodhkumar and surrendered before the Selvapuram police.
 
 Vinodhkumar was also a murder accused - he had murdered his father-in-law Rajaram Mohan with the help of a gang.
 
 
