JAIPUR: Sixty lakh students, 3.5 lakh teachers and 65,000 state schools will participate in the cleanliness drive to mark the birth anniversary of the father of nation Mahatma Gandhi on October 2.

 The state education department has decided to celebrate the birth anniversary by directing government school teachers and students to clean up their respective schools. The move is claimed to be the biggest exercise in the state to promote Prime Ministers Narendra Modi’s ambitious Swachh Bharat Abhiyan.
 
 Under the campaign, students will clean their classes, porch and participate in a plantation drive - all aimed at evoking a sense of cleanliness among students. The drive will be followed by the discussion on Gandhi and personal hygiene.
 
 “This is the best way to commemorate the birth anniversary of   and to fulfil the vision of PM Modi,” said  , state education minister, who cleared that this is a symbolic drive to create awareness about the cleanliness and personal hygiene. The drive is not restricted to clean classes and surroundings but students will be told the importance of cleaning hands before eating, cutting nails and getting haircut at regular intervals. The minister added that   has bagged the third position in   by the HRD ministry across the country and such campaigns will bring us closer to the first position next year.
 
 The duration of the drive depends on the school principals to decide on the basis of student strength and area of the school. The cleanliness drive will be done by the upper primary, secondary and senior secondary students. The primary school students will be asked to observe the drive. The schools have also been asked to tell students to explain the importance of clean drive activities to parents. The officials are very cautious about the campaign and directed the schools to keep the affair symbolic. “No student or teacher will be forced to participate nor is this going to be an intensive cleaning exercise. The campaign in based on the concept of ‘shram-daan’ and willingness for a cleaner and healthier society,’’ said the minister.
 
 Rajasthan is among the few students which had claimed to have 100 functional toilets in all schools.
 
