HYDERABAD: Union minister Bandaru Dattatreya on Friday asked the Telangana and AP governments to contain `pub culture' in the two states and linked this to rising incidents of drug abuse. He said the problem of drug addiction was increasing, particularly in Hyderabad and Visakhapatnam.

 “I appeal to the chief ministers of Telangana and AP to control pub culture,“ Dattatreya said. He also warned the two state governments, saying, “Do not interfere with the investigations by the police and other agencies into the cases. This will allow criminals pushing drugs in the states to escape.“
 
 Dattatreya was speaking to reporters at the Dilkusha   next to the Raj Bhavan after he met with Narcotics Control Bureau deputy superintendent   to discuss issues related to drug abuse. He also said it was time for the two states to set up special AntiDrugs Task Force which should be allowed to function independently and be free of pressure. “I will also speak with Union home minister Rajnath Singh, Union finance minister Arun Jaitley on the issue of drugs and measures to control the menace. Drug abuse is dangerous to internal security and the disturbing trend of youth getting addicted to drugs must be arrested. The Centre and states should share any information they have on drug rackets,“ he said.
 
 The TDP for its part levelled serious charges against the Telangana government over the conduct of the probe into the drugs racket so far. Speaking to reporters after meeting with chief secretary SP Singh and sub mitting a memorandum to him on this issue, Telangana TDP working president A Revanth Reddy alleged that the state government was trying to water down the probe to protect some influential persons in the Telugu film industry.
 
 He said doubts have risen over reported move of director (enforcement) prohibition & excise Akun Sabharwal to go on leave at a crucial juncture of probe.“Even if an official of his standing wants to go on leave, it is for the government to say no. Unless there is pressure on him to water down the case, there is no need for the officer to volunteer information that there was no pressure on him,“ Revanth Reddy said.
 
