NAGPUR: The final day of the Rashtriya Mohd   Utsav ended with the announcent of the winners of the contest and felicitation of dignitaries at Sai hall, Shankar Nagar, on the occasion of Rafi’s death anniversary on Monday. Noted playback   Roopkumar Rathod was the chief guest on the occasion.

 Speaking on the occasion, Akashvani National broadcaster Dr Girish Gandhi said, “Rafi was an example of humility, who always considered himself a student. Marathi ghazals are no less intense, and in them, the hero-heroine try to understand each other. Moreover, organizer of the festival, Mohammed Salim, is an example of Hindu-Muslim unity,” said Gandhi.
 
 Dr Kamal Sharma, another Akashvani National broadcaster, said he is a small artist but feels elated to see Roopkumar at the event. “Till now, no one has organized this kind of festival in the city in the name of Rafi,” he said, adding, “Rafi’s songs could make you laugh and at the same time make you crying also.”
 
 Singer Kalyani Deshmukh too has a Rafi connection. “In my home, it was forbidden to watch   other than classical on television. We didn’t have radio. But when my father spoke of music, he often referred to Rafi. Today, I dedicate my award to him.” She then sang the bhajan, ‘Tere bharose hai Nandlala.’
 
 Roopkumar and Kalyani, later, were felicitated with Mohammad Rafi Samman Puraskar. Roopkumar also sang four lines from Rafi’s song, ‘Pukarta chala hun main’, and assured to visit the city to perform.
 
 The singing competition had three categories — child, youth and elderly –which were won by Shriya Mendhe, Mangesh Dehpande and Prashant Khot, respectively. The function was followed by a musical programme of Rafi’s songs, helmed by Mohammed Salim, Mohammed Munaf, Vilas Dange, Vinod Dubey, Uzma Sheikh, Aniket Joshi, Dr Ravi Wankhede, Varsha and Mumtaz. It showcased some of the most popular hits such as ‘Aaj mausam bada beimaan’, ‘Oh meri mehbooba’, ‘Aaja teri yaad aayi’, ‘Main galliyon ka raja’ and others.
 
 Saiyyad Shireen compèred the programme. Organizer Kumar Kale, corporator Pragati Patil, businessman Dipak Nilawar, former MLC Datta Meghe, politician Chandrashekhar Chikhle also were present on the occasion. Dr Sudhir Babulkar was honoured at the function. 
 
 
