MORADABAD: A group of nearly 50 women allegedly ransacked a   and set it on fire here on Wednesday afternoon. Five persons were arrested soon after the incident, while a BJP  , who led the mob, has been named in the FIR and is on the run, according to the police.
 
  The incident happened at   area of Moradabad. The mob was allegedly led by BJP councillor from Katghar locality, Sonu Sharma.
  
  Members of the crowd alleged that they had complained to local police several times about the nuisance created by the presence of the liquor shops, but had got no response. They then decided to vandalise the shop.
  
  "The area is populated with low-income families. Most men spend their incomes on alcohol. They beat their wives and children. Alcohol has ruined their lives,” Permwati, one of the women in the mob.
  
  “We kept trying to make the police act, but they did not,” said Ram Pyari, also in the crowd.
  
  The mob, chanting slogans, gathered outside the liquor shop and ransacked its contents. They then set fire to it. Tension prevailed in the area for several hours. Local residents also alleged that the shop had no licence.
  
  Police arrived and managed to control the crowd. An FIR has been lodged under sections related to rioting, arson and property damage. Five persons were arrested and identified as Chandarpal Singh, Bittu Verma, Sanju Saini, Kaki Johari and Narayan. None of the women in the mob were arrested.
  
  Police also named councillor Sharma as the main instigator behind the violence. “Sharma escaped from the spot. Police officers have raided his house and other locations and are trying to track him down,” said Moradabad senior superintendent of police  .
  
  After the incident, police ordered liquor shops across the city to be shut down.
  
  “Heavy police force has been deployed in the area. All the women who were caught on video vandalizing the shop will shortly be identified and arrested,” Tiwari added.
  
  Meanwhile, Samajwadi party leader Azam Khan has demanded that   be shut down. “BJP workers are instigating arson in liquor shops. This is not a solution. The state government should also shut down distilleries and breweries, just like they closed abattoirs,” he said.
  
