Pune: In separate incidents, conmen diverted the attention of car drivers and stole valuables worth Rs1.75 lakh on Saturday.

 Two of the three thefts happened in Camp, while the third was reported on Fergusson College Road.
 
 Prakalp Gunjal (47), an employee of a Ranjangon-based multi-national firm, had gone to Appa Balwant Chowk to buy books along with his two colleagues. “After buying the books, we went to East Street in Camp to have some snacks,” Gunjal told TOI.
 
 Gunjal said he and his colleagues left their laptop bags in the car. “I told my driver to park the car and have some snacks,” Gunjal said.
 
 While the driver was looking for a parking space, someone knocked on the window and told him that his notes had fallen on the road. “When the driver looked out, he saw a few Rs10 notes lying on the road. He alighted to pick up the notes and returned to the car,” Gunjal said.
 
 When the driver looked back, he found the laptop bags missing. He immediately got down and tried to trace the person in vain. He then informed Gunjal about the incident, who lodged a police complaint.
 
 In the evening, the Cantonment police realized that only the laptop bags had been abandoned in Deccan. The value of the three stolen laptops and two cellphones collectively is around Rs 64,000.
 
 Thief flees with laptop
 
 About an hour after the Camp incident, a bag containing a laptop worth Rs 61,000 was stolen from a car on the busy Fergusson College Road. The driver of the car Sandip Pashte lodged a complaint with the Deccan Gymkhana police.
 
 Assistant police inspector Amol Devkar told TOI that on Saturday around 1.30pm Pashte went to Fergusson College Road with his employer. His employer got down in front of a restaurant, while Pashte remained in the car. “One person came to him and told him to move his car. While Pashte was busy manoeuvring the car, the suspect opened the vehicle’s door and fled with the laptop bag kept on the rear seat,” Devkar said.
 
 The police are checking CCTV footages from the area to trace the suspects.
 
 
