GREATER NOIDA: The   between  , buyers and Greater Noida Authority will begin from May 24 with the focus on the  , which has to deliver more than 20,000 units across five projects,   officials said.

 With builders in Greater Noida having assured Amit Mohan Prasad, chief executive officer, GNIDA, of handing over 25,000 residential units by December 2017, the next step in the implementation of the delivery will be the tripartite meetings at which each group housing project will be reviewed. 
 
 Developers will submit a road map for the handover of residential units to the homebuyers.
 
 According to officials, a meeting was held with Credai and other developers to break the impasse between the homebuyers and builders on May 6, 2017. 
 
 “At the time the status of about 16 group housing projects was reviewed by the CEO,” said Janardan, additional CEO, GNIDA.
 
 “In that meeting, builders were asked to submit a detailed report of each project including number of units, number of bookings, likely possession date, whether they have applied for the Project Settlement Policy which is effective till June 15, 2017, etc,” Janardan said.
 
  “Following the meeting, we have now scheduled tripartite meetings,” he said. “On the agenda are various issues being faced by the homebuyers including delayed possession, broken promises, lack of amenities, sub-standard faulty construction by developers, etc,” he said.
 
 Officials said that every Wednesday between 4pm and 5pm, starting from next week, they will meet buyers of Amrapali projects. 
 
 “We will review Amrapali Smart City on May 24, Amrapali Dream Valley on May 31, Amrapali Leisure Valley Developers on June 7, Amrapali Leisure Valley on June 14 and Amrapali Centurian Park on June 21,” a GNIDA official said.
 
 “Every Tuesday, starting May 2, we started reviewing other group housing projects.” the official said. 
 
 “We met Shubhkamna Builtech on May 2 and Shubhkamna Buildwell on May 16. We are scheduled to meet builders of Earth Towne on May 23 and New Way homes on May 30,” he added.
 
 “We will examine each project in detail and find ways to resolve problems including providing support from GNIDA,” he said, adding that if builders failed to keep their promises, strict action would be on the cards against them.
 
 
