BAREILLY: A   whose husband abandoned her after just three months of marriage reached the   on Friday morning, poured kerosene on herself and tried to set herself afire before being prevented by witnesses. The girl alleged that her in-laws had forced her into prostitution and, when she protested, her husband gave her triple talaq. DM   asked the   to look into the matter and take strict action against the accused.
 
  Head constable in local intelligence unit (LIU)   said the woman accompanied by her mother arrived the DM office around 9:50 am. Their behavior aroused suspicion and the woman constable followed them. The duo stopped and the girl took out a can from a bag and poured kerosene on herself. “I rushed to them, snatched the can from her and raised an alarm. However, the girl had already emptied about half of the contents in the 5-litre kerosene can on herself. Within minutes, the cops were there and took the girl and her mother to the nearby hand pump to wash off the oil.”
  
  Police then took them to DM Pinky Jowel in whose presence, the girl narrated her ordeal and how she and her mother had been running from local police station to inspector general office, Bareilly zone but to no avail.
  
  The girl’s mother said, “Since my girl has been abandoned by her husband, we have been running from one office to another but police have neither lodged an FIR nor taken any action against the accused. We have met the SSP, the DIG and IG but didn’t get justice so far.”
  
  The rape survivor and talaq victim told TOI, “I got married to Taufiq of Maheshpura on November 19, 2016. Barely two weeks had passed when my husband and mother-in-law forced me into prostitution. I protested but failed. I was raped several times. Finally, after three months of my marriage, when I refused to comply with their wishes anymore. My husband thrashed me badly and abandoned me. Now, he has given me triple talaq. We approached the police but for the past three months, we have been running from pillar to post. Disappointed with police apathy, I decided to end my life at the DM office to highlight how the poor and helpless women are treated by police.”
  
  After listening to them, the DM instructed the SSP to lodge a complaint and take immediate action against the accused. The women were sent to CB Ganj police station under police protection.
