CALANGUTE: Beach shack operators along the Calangute, Candolim and   beach stretch have come up with innovative ways to battle competition and draw the tourists to their outlets and ensure that they stay for long. The big TV screens that shacks at   and Baga sport during   and premier football league matches are a prime example of this, and serve to attract the desi tourists, who frequent the stretch in large numbers.
 
  “When matches are screened domestic tourist spend long hours at shacks eating and drinking,” shack operator said.
  
  General secretary,   (SOWS),   said that the competition between shack operators is so stiff that each turns to inventive ways to attract the crowds.
  
  Additionally, beach shacks operators also provide their guests with locker facilities at a charge, thus stepping in to address a demand where the tourism department failed. The facility is provided at most shacks at Calangute and a manager at one of the shacks there, on conditions of anonymity, shared that they charge Rs 50 an hour for a locker. At some shacks lockers are complimentary.
  
  “A tourist wants to keep his belongings somewhere safe when going for a swim, and guests come inquiring. So we have lockers for them,” the manger said and added that there have been several instances in the past of tourists getting robbed of their belongings while they have been taking a swim.
  
  Moreover, where in the past free Wi-Fi was the only perk provided to guests, today, in the face of intense competition, tourists are even provided with deckbeds and a shower facility, all on the house! The later is the latest big tourist lure, and shacks at prime location, like those close to the beach entrance, all have showers installed.
  
  “There is the possibility that the guest using my deckbed will order a drink, if not food,” said a beach shack operator at Baga, who doesn’t charge tourists for using deckbeds.
  
  Another shack operator, who also let out deckbeds for free, said that while he is not in favour of doing so, he had no other choice as the neighbouring shacks were not charging for the deckbeds, and had more guests that he did.
  
  The tourism department charges us separate fees for the deckbeds, so giving them out for free does not make business sense he said, and added “Before the season starts all operators agree not to give out deckbeds for free, but the assurance is forgotten once the season takes off.”
