CHANDIGARH:   submitted by   of Panjab University ahead of their   were found objectionable by Panjab University's health centre here on Tuesday.

  Of these seven certificates, five are from the same doctor. One medical certificate is from a doctor in Ambala. While the certificate said the student had been given eight weeks of bed rest for backache, when the chief medical officer (CMO) verified the case from the doctor, he clarified he had given only three weeks, sources told TOI. 
 
 Six students are from the department of evening studies and one is from the economics department. Sources said an emergency meeting of the medical board was convened at the PU health centre on Tuesday to review the seven certificates. The health centre will now write to dean university instructions (DUI) Prof   to look into the matter, said sources.
 
 Four of the seven certificates have been tampered with and the number of days has been changed from two to five days, said sources. They aded that there are certain cases where the doctor had written "PUO", which is ascrtained only after 21 days of clinical examination. When one of the doctors from the health centre called up to know about this particular case where the doctor had written PUO, the doctor did not even know the correct term for the abbreviation. He said that it stood for pyrexia under observation, instead of pyrexia of unknown origin, sources told TOI. 
 
 Sources said the medical board raised objections that a number of medical certificates came from the same doctor with the same disease. The health centre has also received medical certificates from the same doctor who had issued a fake certificate last year too. One student has been given bed rest of 20 days for viral fever. "We can give 20 days of rest for viral fever (non-specific). The university can send me these medical certificates for verification," said the doctor, who has issued them.
 
 When contacted, PU chief medical officer Dr   said there were three doctors, including a surgeon, orthopaedician and a medical specialist, who review these certificates and then these are countersigned by the CMO. To check fake medical certificates, a pabel had been formed by the varsity. The committee had issued show-cause notices to the students who had submitted fake medical certificates in the last semester to make up for the minimum attendance of 75%. 
 
