THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The  , who was arrested a few days ago for the rape and consequent suicide of 10-year-old girl at  , has raped the elder sister of the deceased too, it is learnt. 

 The special investigation team probing the case has filed a report before the district principal sessions court informing that another case has been registered in this regard under relevant sections of rape under IPC and POCSO. The team also secured the custody of the accused for five days for further probe.
 
 According to sources in the probe team, the second case was registered after getting clear statement from the girl, who is currently in a shelter home. Though she had been giving contradictory statements earlier, she has now given a clear statement to the cops. The cops considered this as the positive result of the counselling sessions she had been undergoing at the hands of expert clinical psychologists.
 
 The officer said that the wife of the accused too is under surveillance as they suspect that she too was in connivance with the accused. ''Her role in the crimes would also be probed," the officer said.
 
 Meanwhile, the police have also launched a reinvestigation into the case in which the two girls' father was earlier accused of sexually abusing them. This was after the father filed a complaint alleging that the case was framed by his father-in-law to expel him from the family so that he could indulge in his criminal activities without any fear. The father was arrested and remanded in 2015 in connection with that case. A charge sheet was filed before the court and the trial in the case is pending.
 
 ''A thorough investigation will be done this time. The investigation officer of that case as well as all the officers who were part of that probe will be interrogated," the officer said.
 
 Meanwhile on Wednesday, a former neighbour of the accused filed a complaint before the Kollam Rural SP claiming that the accused was behind the untimely death of her 14-year-old son in 2010. The complainant said that though both families were in good terms initially, the accused and his son started asking for sexual favours, which she refused. One day, her son, Kichu, was found hanging in the house. She alleged that following the old man's arrest, she now have reasons to believe that his crooked mind could be behind her son's death too. The SP has forwarded the complaint to   DSP B Krishnakumar for probing.
 
