GANDHINAGAR:   has ordered formal departmental inquiry against senior IAS officer   for alleged   that had occurred when he was posted in Gujarat Industries Development Corporation (GIDC).

 Manoj Aggarwal, who is now development commissioner, was then managing director (MD), GIDC.
 
 In the context of the alleged irregularities in land allotment, the state government has also cautioned then chairman, GIDC, and then additional chief secretary (ACS), industry and mines, Arvind Agrawal to be more careful in future regarding policy matters.
 
 If sources are to be believed, the CM has asked Arvind Agarwal to report to the chief secretary before taking any policy decision even in his current posting. Agarwal is at present ACS, forest and environment department.
 
 In October 2016, Rupani had ordered an inquiry by former chief secretary and former vigilance commissioner Manjula Subramaniam against both the IAS officers.
 
 In an official statement, the state government has said: “It is worth mentioning here that a complaint was received by the CM against the above senior officers of GIDC regarding their malpractices in land allocation. In this context, he (Rupani) had appointed former chief secretary and senior IAS officer Dr Manjula Subramaniam on October 15, 2016, to conduct an independent investigation in these two matters.”
 
 The statement goes on to say: “Furthermore, Manjula Subramaniam submitted her investigation report to the state government on April 16, 2017 in the cases of land allocation to M/s NSP Infrastructure Pvt Ltd, Ichchhapor, Surat; and Gujarat Hydrocarbon and Power SEZ Ltd, Vilayat GIDC, district Bharuch under Union Government’s scheme of integrated textile park.”
 
 According to the official statement, after a detailed study of the investigation report, Rupani had decided to issue an advisory note to then ACS, industry department (Arvind Agarwal) to be more careful in future regarding such policy matters.
 
 “The CM had also ordered departmental investigation according to rules against then managing director of GIDC (Manoj Aggarwal),” the official statement says.
 
 According to sources, the state government may appoint some serving or retired IAS officer to conduct a departmental inquiry against Manoj Aggarwal.
 
