GHAZIABAD:   (12), who disappeared from her home in Shakti Khand-3,  , on February 13 and was found in   in Kangra, Himachal Pradesh, two days later, told TOI on Friday that whe 

 Very important quote of Archie Yadav:-
 
 "After my mother left to get my elder sister, I was all alone at home when I heard a knock on the front door. When I went to see, a woman who was tall, slender and was wearing a pink saree was standing at the door. She called me closer to the door and as soon as I started talking to her and looked into her eyes, I found myself losing self control. She then asked me to open the door, but since the door was locked, she pointed at the key kept on a table inside the house and asked me to use that to open the door. I did the same, I don't know why. Then I came out, and locked the door. When I was climbing down the stairs, that woman was slower and I started running away. But for some reason I started running in the opposite direction as to where my mother was. On the road I met another woman, who was standing by the car and asked me why was I running. I told her that a woman is following me and I need my mother, so she offered to help and told me that she would take me to my mother. Before I could realise she put a cloth over my mouth and then I woke up in the train."
 
 Note:- Further information could not be obtained as Archie's caretakers discouraged her to continue talking to me on the phone on account of being stressed about the incident.
 
 Archie is still in the Dharamshala child care home. The process of transferring the child back home will hopefully be completed tomorrow morning, according to Achiie’s uncle, who is in Dharamshala with her parents.
 
 Archie Yadav's disappearance, the 12-year-old girl who went missing from her home in Shakti Khand-3, Indirapuram, on February 13 and was found in Kangra, Himachal Pradesh, on Thursday is directly coinciding with the disappearance of three minor sisters, who went missing from their Posonda home on February 15 afternoon.
 
 The connection belongs to the possibility of two women allegedly hypnotising the victims from the outside of their homes and thus influencing them to go with them, as told by the kin of the victims in both the cases. 
 
 After a news conference held at the Indirapuram police station on Friday evening, the police confirmed that among the changing versions narrated by Archie about her experience, one of the version talks about a woman approaching her front door that afternoon, hypnotising her and thus taking her along with her. 
 
 Archie's parents, one uncle and two representatives of Ghaziabad Police had left around 12 am last night to fetch her from an NGO from Dharamshala and only met her around 2 pm on Friday. When asked about how did she reach Palampur Bus Stand, Sunil Yadav, her uncle said, "She is under a lot of stress and started crying after meeting her mother. We have been asked to not pressurise her with our questions, but she did say that a woman came to her front door that afternoon and after talking to her for a minute, she hypnotised her and asked her to come out, lock the house and follow her in her car where another woman was waiting for her. Who apparently took her to Pathankot in a train."
 
 "She said that in Pathankot she manage to escape, and then reached Palampur in a mini-train and was looking for a bus to get back to Ghaziabad before being found by the Palampur police," he added.
 
 However, police maintains that this version is one out of many other versions that Archie has allegedly shared with the Palampur Police. "She also said that she went to Kangra with two courier boys. She also said that she could not complete some work pertaining to school which is why she was tensed. She also gave these multiple versions before the judge in Kangra," said SP (City) Salmantaj Patil.
 
 Similarly, in the second case, three sisters identified as Heena (14), Meena (13) and Saniya (10) daughters of labourers went missing from their home in Pasonda on the afternoon of February 15, after a similar incident and remain untraceable till date. "After my daughter's went missing, we raised the matter with our neighbours. One of them said that they saw that afternoon that two women, who were extremely shabbily dressed in dirty clothes approached their house and spoke to the three of their daughters. Soon after which, all the three sisters were seen following the two women outside of the village," said Abdul Hassan, father of the missing sisters. 
 
 However, when asked about the same to the police, SHO Sahibabad Dhirendra Singh Yadav said, "I do not believe that the girls were hypnotised by anyone. The place where they live is very crowded, being taken away like that infront of so many people in impossible. These are poor people, they can say anything."
 
 However, an F.I.R under Section 364 (  or abducting in order to murder) of the IPC has been registered in the Sahibabad Police Station. 
 
 Despite of all the contradictory information, the truth about these 'women' remain a mystery.
 
 
