A   appearing for the   who had gone to pick a   from his   was   after he asked them to move their car parked outside the restaurant at airport road in Hansol. According to a complaint filed by restaurant manager Kirit Joshi (47) with Sardarnagar police, Nihar (17), nephew of Knife & Fork restaurant owner Viren Ghamande had come to pick food from the eatery around 9.45 pm on Thursday.

 
 
 At the time, a customer came in to complain that someone had parked a car behind his vehicle. Nihar went out to request the car occupants to move their car. But two of the five seated inside stepped out and started punching the boy. When he ran into the food joint, the duo followed him and the three others joined them in hitting and kicking the 17-year-old. Despite the manager intervening, they beat Nihar black and blue. They left after picking up a mobile phone lying at the reception, but not before threatening that they would set afire the restaurant with them inside.
 
 After they left, Joshi called up the owner and together they checked the CCTV footage. Ghamande recognised one of the attackers as Babu Thakur, resident of Shanti Nivas in Hansol. They informed the Sardarnagar police and an offence was registered against Thakur and four others. According to Investigation Officer L G Kharadi, “The accused are on the run. We will also conduct their medical test as they seem to be habitual drinkers. The boy is a minor, so whatever action needs to be taken under the Juvenile Justice Act will be taken. We have collected CCTV footage which clearly shows the boy being beaten up.”
 
 Ghamande said, “Thakur is known for creating trouble in the area. For a simple act of removing the car, he and his accomplices beat up my nephew.” Nihar, a student of G D High School in Sardarnagar, grimaced in pain as he told Mirror, “I just told them to move the car and they beat me up. I was more concerned about my exam as I was caught up in procedure till 4 am. My entire body is paining and in this condition I had to appear for the Science paper. I had to stop writing at intervals as the pain was unbearable.”
 
