GURUGRAM: The health department confirmed the first case of   in Gurgaon this year after a 22-year-old man from Sector 46 tested positive for the disease on Friday. 

 The patient, according to a senior health official, has been suffering from fever for last five days, and now is being treated for dengue after his blood samples were tested positive for the mosquito-borne disease.
 
 The patient was admitted to Aryan   on Old Railway Road. Doctors at the hospital had sent the patient’s blood samples to the district health department for the dengue tests on Thursday. On Friday, test showed positive results.
 
 The patient, according to hospital sources, is in a stable condition and has been   from the hospital.
 
 So far, over 44 suspected cases of dengue have been reported in Gurgaon this year. 
 
 Also, 30 people have been tested positive for malaria so far in the city.
 
 Following this, the health department put its officials and other employees on alert. “According to the norms, fogging and spraying of anti-larvae medicine were carried out in 50 houses close to the patient’s home this weekend. We are taking all preventive measures in an attempt to prevent the disease from spreading,” said Dr SS  , district malaria officer.
 
 In June, 6,761 houses were inspected in Gurgaon by a team of health officials and  . The team inspected houses and other buildings and identified 238 sites where mosquitoes are found to be breeding.
 
 In most cases, mosquito larvae are found to be breeding in air coolers, said a senior health official. While people try and keep their surroundings clean, they often forget to clean coolers very frequently, and thus allowing mosquitoes to breed inside their bedrooms.
 
 As many as 20 teams have been formed by MCG for spreading public awareness and carrying out sensitisation drives.
 
 The health department has identified the areas where suspected or confirmed cases of dengue and malaria have been reported.
 
 The team inspects houses to spot larvae, and takes required actions such as throwing away stagnant water with larvae or adding tamifoss in tanks from where water can’t be thrown away. Mosquito larvae are found to be breeding in places like elevator ducts, lotus ponds, defrost trays in refrigerators, money plants vases, overhead water tanks and parking lots also.
 
 Children till five years of age and pregnant women are most vulnerable to the disease. The symptoms include fever, headache, muscle, joint pains and skin rashes.
 
