MYSURU/HASSAN: More than 10 people including four staff of Belur civic body took ill following a   gas leak at a   early Tuesday and were rushed to Belur taluk hospital. Some were later shifted to   district   and are out of danger.

 Four employees of the Belur Town Municipality — Shankar, Lokesh, Nagaraj and Kariyappa — and six others living in the vicinity fell sick after the gas leak that didn’t affect tourists visiting Belur, home to the popular Hoysala period Chennakeshava Temple. Water supply remained normal as the civic body deputed additional men to man the treatment plant, officials said.
 
 The treatment plant at   sources water from Yagachi dam for supply to Belur, 38km from Hassan. Water chlorination, a process of adding chlorine to water to kill bacteria and other microbes, is done to prevent the spread of waterborne diseases, mainly dysentery.
 
 The gas cylinder containing the toxic chemical was changed late Sunday after it had gone dry. Officials suspect the staff didn’t fix the control knob properly while changing the cylinder. Around 2.30 am, the plant staff noticed the gas leak and tried to contain it. They also alerted senior officials following which the civic body’s executive officer   rushed to the spot. When efforts to contain the gas leak failed, the authorities alerted police and fire personnel. People living in the vicinity of the plant were woken up and moved to a safer place.
 
 Some staff and villagers, however, complained of uneasiness in breathing and nausea. There was no first aid kit or any equipment to tackle gas leak. The staff were not trained to deal with such emergencies.
 
 The gas leak was contained in two hours as it was small and happened in open area, authorities said.
 
 Belur MLA Y N Rudregowda, Sakleshpur assistant commissioner Shivaraj and DHO Dr Venkatesh visited the spot. 
 
 The DHO pointed to the absence of first aid kits at the plant while Shivaraj assured to extend financial aid to buy equipment necessary to tackle such situations.
 
