Udupi: Home minister G Parameshwara said police personnel will get monthly allowance of Rs 2,000 along with their February salary. 

 Speaking after inaugurating the   Police Station at Gangolli on Friday, the home minister said the monthly allowance, though, announced in November 2016, was not released due to some reasons. However, all police personnel will get it including arrears along with February salary, he added.
 
 The state government had announced a monthly allowance of Rs 2,000 for police personnel upto the rank of sub-inspector with effect from September 1, 2016.
 
  “Police work under difficult circumstances. Therefore, the state government is providing them maximum facilities including uniform, conveyance, risk allowance and so on,” he added.
 
 Explaining the need for setting up a coastal security police station, the home minister, said the state has a 350km-long coastal line. Apart from fishing, lot of other activities, mainly illegal ones, happen here which need to be stopped. “After the Mumbai terror attack, we have to be more cautious in gaurding the coastline to prevent such terror attacks in future. That is the reason a full-fledged station is set up.”
 
 He said the cops attached to this station will have a different uniform. “We are also seeking a helicopter from the Centre for patrolling,” the home minister added. 
 
 He said promotions in the ranks of police department will be made time-bound. “Around 11,000 policemen will be promoted within a year. The service period for a constable to get promotion as head constable will be reduced to 10 years from the existing 22 years. If there no posts available, then he or she will be given salary and perks of a head constable,” he added.
 
 He said in the last three years, the government has recruited 20,000 constables, of which 16,000 have already joined the force. To provide housing facility for police personnel, the department has set aside Rs 1,818 crore and 11,000 houses have already been built, he added.
 
 The home minister said a women’s police station will be set up at Kundapur soon. “The government is also mulling recruiting more women in police force. At present, the force has just 5% women police and it will be increased to 20%,” he added.
 
 
