HYDERABAD:
 Ever wondered why you feel hotter than it is supposed to be?
Here's why. As per a study, the country's average heat index has shown a significant decadal increase over 60 years, growning at a rate of 0.56 degree Celsius and 0.32 degree Celsius in summer and monsoon.
 Heat index is a measure of stress that humans face due to increased heat and humidity. The higher the heat index, the hotter one feels, since sweat does not readily evaporate and cool the skin.
 
 The study was jointly conducted by the   (IMD) and the   (IITM). Out of the 25 big cities analyzed, 17 were found with an average summer heat index in the 'very hot' category. These include Hyderabad, Visakhapatnam, Mumbai, Pune, Kolkata, Ahmedabad, Coimbatore and Nagpur. Prolonged exposure or physical activity in such weather conditions can lead to heat cramps, exhaustion or even heat stroke.
 
 Heat cramps are a result of dehydration and loss of electrolyte balance in the body. Dr   told TOI that such conditions can also make a person prone to viral infections.
 
 Researchers advise administrative authorities to take precautionary measures in heat stress-prone regions so that lives, especially of poor people, can be saved.
 
 A K Jaswal, who recently retired from the IMD and was the lead researcher in the study, published in the 'Journal of Climate Change', told TOI that cities with a moderately to strongly increasing heat index are mainly concentrated in the  , central India and along the western and southeastern coasts. Many show a decadal increase of 1-3 degrees.
 
 For the monsoon, the longterm average heat index indicates that 18 cities are in the very hot' category, including Hyderabad, New Delhi, Chennai, Kolkata, Ahmedabad, Lucknow, Varanasi and Amritsar.
 
 The study found that 10 cities show a significant increasing trend in the monsoon, including Hyderabad, Mumbai, New Delhi, Lucknow, Gwalior, Varanasi, Nagpur, Madurai, Coimbatore, and Tiruchirapalli. “Mega cities are densely packed with people, buildings, factories and vehicles. Heat released into the atmosphere gets trapped, implying that the ambient temperature is often higher than the immediate surroundings,“ said Jaswal.
 
 He said that an interesting regional phenomenon is the stilling of winds in India.“Wind helps evaporate sweat and cools the body. Spatially, the trend of heat index increase is significant across the country, suggesting a substantial rise in human discomfort and illness aggravated by climate change,“ he said.
 
 The study used monthly average maximum temperatures and relative humidity records from 283 surface meteorological stations in India to analyze the heat index during the summer months of March to May and monsoon months of June to September over the past 60 years--from 1951 to 2010.
 
 “An increasing heat index indicates high levels of discomfort in both seasons, which is primarily due to an increase in humidity in summer and an increase in the maximum temperature during the monsoon. Spatial distribution of heat index indicates greater chances of heat related illnesses in India, more prominently in the southeast coast in summer and over northwest India in the monsoon,“ said Jaswal.
 
 Consultant physician   said, “Heat strokes are seen in places where temperature rise is extreme, such as cities like Nagpur. But, during times of hot weather conditions, people should keep themselves hydrated, especially those with renal stones. Heat cramps or heat exhaustion can occur when a person is exposed to severely hot weather conditions for a prolonged period of time.“
 
