MAPUSA: Goa Forward Party (GFP) has taken a strong stand on the threat perception faced by its MLA and water resources minister Vinod   allegedly from the drug mafia even as the police department is awaiting additional inputs to beef up security cover for the Siolim MLA.

 “Palyekar is a minister in the government. He has consistently taken a stand against drugs in his constituency. He may have, for obvious reasons, ruffled feathers. The threat perception must be taken seriously,”   and town and country planning minister   said.
 
 On the government’s stand on the issue, Sardesai said, “The chief minister is also right...there’s a police committee that reviews such issues. They will decide accordingly.”
 
 Palyekar had told the media three days ago that he is facing a threat to his life. He had accordingly informed chief minister   and chief secretary Dharmendra Sharma who is also the home secretary.
 
 Palyekar said that he has given up his morning walks as he feared he was being stalked following strong statements against the drug mafia. Palyekar is of the view that in keeping with ‘Goem, Goenkar and Goenkarponnn’, the scourge of drugs has to be eliminated. 
 
 His statement was seen as giving a negative image of the government to the world, sources said, adding that the opposition was taking full mileage from it. 
 
 Sources said that in view of his initiative, drugs pushers are lying low in his constituency.
 
 GFP’s Siolim block has stood firmly by the statements made by its MLA that he faces a life threat from the drug mafia who are upset over his anti-drugs initiatives.
 
  “No other MLA or minister has raised the drugs issue, there are threats to our MLA as the drug mafia doesn’t want action. Siolim block GFP is with Palyekar. Parrikar should help him in his anti-drugs campaign,” Sagar Lingudkar of the GFP told reporters on Thursday. Parrikar on Wednesday had said that the Goa Police have taken all measures to ensure adequate safety to Palyekar. 
 
 The security review committee met two days ago and have called for fresh inputs. “Depending on the inputs, a decision will be made accordingly. Whatever security arrangement has been provided appears adequate for now,” said DIG Vimal Gupta. 
 
 Lingudkar said that recently two youths died in Anjuna because of an alleged drug overdose. “Police should find the source of drugs. We feel proud that, of the 40 legislators, Palyekar has stood up against the drug trade. We encourage him in his fight against drugs,” Lingudkar said.
 
 Umakant Korgaonkar of GFP said that if required they will take to the streets to support Palyekar. Sharing a similar view, Anilkumar Nagvekar of GFP said that the decision to take stern action against the drug trade is justified and the drug mafia is upset over the decision. 
 
