BENGALURU:  ,  , was eagerly looking forward to January 22. For, it was the day he'd meet his grandson after long. But fate had other plans. On his way to Beng alur u, the 65-year-old fell off a  , and the lower half of his left arm was severed at the elbow.

 Subbanna was rushed to Bowring &   along with his severed arm, where he was given first aid. He was then referred to  's Pradhan Mantri Swasthya Suraksha Yojana (PMSSY) unit for further treatment.
 
 At PMSSY, the sexagenarian underwent a 12-hour-long forearm replantation surgery, the first of its kind at a government hospital in Karnataka. In three weeks, Subbanna got back his limb, and will soon be able to move his hand and fingers normally, thanks to a team of eight doctors from the plastic surgery, orthopaedic and anaesthesia departments of the hospital.
 
 Said Dr Smitha Segu, associate professor and head of plastic surgery department, Victoria Hospital: “The patient was lucky as he was brought to the hospital within the   following the accident; we were able to make all preparations and start the replantation procedure within six hours from the time of the mishap.“
 
 “Also, the amputated arm was brought to us with much care, something the public should be aware of in case there is a similar situation. The amputated part has to be thoroughly w a s h e d , w r ap p e d i n a moist gauze or cloth or plastic, packed in a dry plastic cover and put in another plastic cover filled with crushed ice or chilled b water,“ she explained.
 
 Doctors who were part d of the team pointed out t that the procedure ref quired experience, skill t and infrastructure, and i PMSSY unit provided all r that. A similar procedure b at private set-ups would have cost at least Rs 6 lakh. l In Subbanna's case, a porb tion of the cost was covered h under free gover nment a health schemes, and the a remaining was waived off t by the hospital.
 
 “According to statistics, depression is a major factor in patients who have to face any kind of amputation. Replantation surgeries help restore body integrity and self-esteem. Subbanna has to undergo a few more procedures to get his limb and finger movements back to normal. We hope he'll recover completely in a year's time,“ said Dr Amaresh Biradar, also a plastic surgeon.
 
