NEW DELHI: After thumping win in UP and Uttarakhand and cobbling up majority support in Manipur and Goa in the recent round of assembly polls, BJP is now working on regions from where it can make new gains for the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. This will see BJP’s first national executive meet in Bhubaneswar after 20 years. 

 The choice of venue for the next meet also follows BJP’s impressive win in panchayat polls in Odisha where it was once a junior partner of the ruling BJD. With rival Congress almost extinct, BJP is trying to emerge as the next alternative in the state. The party’s two-day national executive meeting will be held on April 15 and 16 with Prime Minister Narendra   in attendance on both days. Top BJP leaders, led by party chief Amit Shah, will be in Bhubaneswar for three days, beginning with the meeting of office bearers on April 14. 
 
 The meet is likely to highlight the party’s “garib kalyan” or pro-poor agenda led by the Modi government at the Centre. In the recent panchayat elections, BJP’s best showing came from the backward district of Kalahandi and Mayurbhanj, which is also home to the tribals in the state, as also from Bargarh known for its paddy cultivation. 
 
 “The results prove that the Modi government’s pro-poor and pro-farmer policies have worked well and have been well received by the poor,” said BJP general secretary Arun Singh, who is incharge of the state. Winning 34 of the 36 seats in Kalahandi, BJP polled 49% votes in the area, while ruling BJD got 25% and Congress 19%. It got 47.85% votes in Bargarh, with BJD trailing with 35% and Congress down to 13%. “From zero, we have just formed eight zila parishads now,” said Singh. 
 
 Union Petroleum Minister Dharmendra Pradhan, who hails from the state, said in Bhubaneswar on Saturday, “The PM will come to Odisha to thank the people for their unprecedented support to BJP in the recent panchayat polls.” 
 
 It is not yet decided whether the PM will address a rally in Bhubaneswar, though a show of strength is usually part of the schedule. Apart from senior party leaders L K Advani and MM Joshi, Union ministers Rajnath Singh, Arun Jaitley, Sushma Swaraj, Venkaiah Naidu and chief ministers of all BJP-ruled states will attend the meeting.
 
