Hyderabad: With a sluggish year now in the rear view mirror, Japanese auto giant   India Limited (HCIL) has set its sights on strengthening its brand positioning as a ‘premium’ player and improving sales volumes this year, HCIL president and CEO Yoichiro Ueno said here on Friday. “It is important to grow volumes. However, the priority is to reinforce the brand. While the current market volume and growth is good, we believe real motorisation or real expansion of the market will be seen in the middle of 2020-2030. We believe that it is more important to establish a foundation for that period rather than chasing volumes now. It is important to maintain a certain level of presence… this year we will increase market share … not aggressively but moderately,” he explained. While the company is working towards building a ‘premium’ image, it wants to maintain its presence in the entry segment too where it has vehicles like Brio, Amaze and Jazz. In the premium segment, it has models like Honda City 2017 and WR-V. “Since the last year.. the SUV segment has been registering a fast growth. There is enquiry for larger SUVs and maybe HR-V can be one of the options. It is above 4-metre and is more expensive… we are assessing if we can have a reasonable pricing for this model,” he added.

 On the impact of the impending GST on the auto sector, he said the company is still in the wait and watch mode as the tax rates have not been finalised yet. Ueno pointed out that many consumers might postpone their purchases for the next few months to see how the GST pans out for the sector.
 
 While he did not comment on the likely impact of GST on the prices of its models, he did confirm that the company may have a relook at the pricing if volumes shoot up. Honda sold over 1.6 lakh units last fiscal and expects to grow in the range of 7-8% this fiscal. HCIL has a network presence of 345 facilities across 230 cities in the country. The company has two manufacturing facilities at Greater Noida in UP and Tapukara in Rajasthan with a total capacity of 3 lakh units per annum. It has invested over Rs 8,600 crore in its Indian operations and employs over 9,800 people in the country.
 
 The company is betting big on the Indian market as it is the fifth largest passenger car market in the world behind Germany and is this year expected to overtake Germany. In fact, the Indian car market is expected to ride past Japan in five years and become the third largest after China and the US, he added. On being asked about the introduction of electric vehicles in the Indian market, he said it will take some time before the segment takes off as the cost of these vehicles is almost double that of regular vehicles. India also has constraints in terms of infrastructure required for e-vehicles, he added.
 
 
