BHOPAL: If you get into a squabble in Madhya Pradesh, better guard your nose. It’s hardly laughing matter — at least six persons have had their noses chopped or chewed off in just 11 days. The latest victims are from   district — a Dalit, whose   was hacked with an axe by upper caste people, and an elderly woman who was attacked by a robber.

 The earlier victims include a Bhopal girl, who had her nose bitten by a mugger, a teacher and a schoolgirl who paid for having an alleged affair, and a train ticket examiner who had a squabble with a junior.
 
 Asked why there is a spurt in chopping off noses, sociology professor of Barkatulla University, S N Choudhary, reminded of the social taboo of ‘naak katana’ (humiliation, loss of face). Harking back to an era when it was impossible to sew back a nose, it was the ultimate punishment for adultery across cultures and was practised by ancient Romans, Greeks and Arab civilisations. The taboo is deeply embedded in Indian society. “It is like adding insult to injury — an attack on the prestige and dignity of a person. Remember, Lakshman had chopped off the nose of Ravana’s sister Surpanakha in Ramayana,” said prof Choudhary.
 
 Chhatarpur’s Narbad Ahirwar’s only fault, however, was that he was born to a Scheduled Caste family. An old enmity with some upper caste people in Badamalhara village came back to haunt him on Saturday when four of them cut his nose with an axe. Ahirwar screamed for help but his voice was drowned out by the din in the local the Shivaratri fair. The suspects — Hakim Singh, Hardev Singh, Majboot Singh Ramsingh and Morpal Singh — are on the run, said police. They have been booked under IPC Section 326 (causing injury) and the Prevention of SC-ST Atrocities Act. 
 
 In a bizarre coincidence, 55-year-old Kastoori bai of nearby Bhagwa village suffered the same fate the same day. A robber barged into her house when she was alone but she fought back and shouted for help. In anger, the robber cut off her nose with a knife.
 
 On February 14, a young executive in Bhopal faced the same injury at the hands of a robber. She was walking home near   when a snatcher grabbed her phone. She fought back, but he responded by biting her nose so badly that she had to be operated on immediately to sew it back. On February 19, irked over an affair of a girl with her teacher, her parents cut off the couple’s noses in Sidhi district. While the teachers’ nose was completely severed, the girl escaped with cuts.
 
 On February 23, a TTE chewed up the nose of the chief ticket examiner of Katni station, Manoj Sharma. He had just entered his office after duty when TTE Narendra Kumar Meena got into an argument with him Sharma and allegedly bit off his nose. 
 
