CHANDIGARH: To register their vociferous protest against the decision of the   to shelve the Dadupur-Nalvi canal project, Haryana   heavyweights on Sunday held rallies in the state. Former CM Bhupinder Singh Hoods chaired the Kisan Mazdoor Rally at Ballabhgarh while   chief spokesperson and Kaithal MLA Randeep Surjewala had a field day in Yamunanagar. The CLP leader, Kiran Choudhary, and Haryana Congress president Ashok Tanwar addressed a   in Panipat.

 Addressing the gathering at the grain market of Ballabhgarh, Hooda called for a united fight against ‘anti-people government’, saying that the condition of farmers was worse than those in pre-Independence era as they were being forced to sell their crops below the MSP. The former chief minister said that the policies of the   government in the state and the Centre had pushed people into acute financial distress. He said that the size of the gathering at the panchayat was an indicator of the fact that the people of the state were deeply anguished by their policies and the government would collapse like a house of cards, even before the end of their term.
 
 Rohak MP Deepender Hooda elaborated upon the frustration among youth. “They could just provide handful of jobs in Haryana,” he said. In Kaithal, Surjewala accused the government of betraying farmers. “Dadupur-Nalvi Canal Project is the life line of northern Haryana and the Congress would ensure its revival and completion on coming to power. Haryana’s BJP government has bartered the interests of farmers and time has come to raise a decisive battle for justice to uproot the Khattar government from Haryana,” said Surjewala.
 
 Farmers from Kurukshetra, Yamunanagar and Ambala converged at the dharna site to register their protest against the decision of Khattar government. A number of senior party leaders, including senior ministers and legislators, joined the protest.
 
 In Panipat, Kiran elaborated upon the schemes related to Dalit students and women withdrawn by the Khattar government. Taking a dig at the chief minister, Choudhary categorically said that, “Even Dalit MLAs of their own party are not getting adequate respect. One can imagine the condition of Dalits. Congress is the only party which can protect the interests of all 36 communities,” she said.
 
