BENGALURU: Pushpa Singh, a resident of Bhoopasandra whose children study in Sindhi College, is a relieved mother. For, the much-awaited skywalk at   is finally ready and her kids don’t have to cross the busy road risking their lives. Though the facility awaits a formal inauguration, pedestrians have already begun using it.

 “I was scared because my son used to cross the road on his way to and from college. Now my daughter has also got admission in the same institution. My husband would drop and fetch her from college because we didn’t want her to face any danger. Now we have no reason to worry as they can use the skywalk,” she told TOI.
 
 Pushpa’s fear was not unfounded. The junction on Ballari Road — at the mouth of the elevated expressway to Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) — is a deathtrap, especially for pedestrians. Despite having a pelican light in place, the junction has witnessed instances of speeding vehicles mowing down helpless pedestrians.
 
 In one such incident, a speeding tanker ploughed into college student  , 19, and pillion rider Anand Sampangiramaiah, 25, on February 25, 2015, sparking off massive protests by locals and students. The protesters unanimously demanded a skywalk at the junction.
 
 Two years and three months later, the pedestrian facility is in place. Escalators are likely to be installed. Hari Kannaiah, resident of  , said, “This is good news for the residents of Hebbal and surrounding areas. The junction has seen many accidents and a skywalk is a must. Students of the schools and colleges in the vicinity can heave a sigh of relief. An escalator or lift must be installed for senior citizens.”
 
 “Traffic movement from KIA to the city is still a problem until BDA widens the Hebbal flyover by adding one more lane,” said Rajesh B, a resident of Kodigehalli.
 
 Box: NHAI takes up road widening
 
 Work on the skywalk was held up because of the delay in acquiring land from Karnataka Industrial Areas Development Board (KIADB) and a defence establishment.  , the project’s custodian, has taken up road widening work around the junction, leading towards the Hebbal flyover. As part of the contract, the highway authority has to build a wall to secure the defence land and widen the service roads at the ends of the skywalk.
 
