MUMBAI: Two   employees of an   cash replenishment agency were arrested last week for stealing Rs 28.7 lakh from a state-run bank’s   kiosk.

 The duo allegedly used two sets of keys —manual and digital—to open the lower part of the ATM machine where   is stored. The heist came to light on March 14 when the agency learned that the ATM near   in Goregaon (East) was out of cash without any recorded withdrawal. 
 
 One of the two accused allegedly splurged Rs 7 lakh or 50% of his share of the stolen cash on a Goa trip with friends. Cops recovered Rs 21.7 from him.
 
 Cops suspected it was an insider job as the ATM had not been tampered with. Cash was loaded into the machine on March 10, a day before the Holi weekend. The agency learned of the crime on March 14. After an internal inquiry did not bear fruit, it registered a case on March 15 with Vanrai police who kept the case under wraps to ensure the accused—Jagdish Patel (35) and his accomplice Ritesh Barge (30)—did not get a hint that they were being watched. Patel was laid off last December after the agency was taken over by another. He had allegedly carried out a recce on March 7 at the unmanned ATM. Barge had left the agency two years ago.
 
 The duo, well aware of CCTV cameras, wore masks before entering the ATM around 2.25am on March 10. “Patel did not hand over the manual key to the company nor share the digital code when he was laid off. The duo carried the cash in a sack and fled on a bike,” said Kirankumar Chavan, DCP (Zone XII).
 
 Chavan formed a team of assistant police commissioner Dyaneshwar Jawalkar, Vanrai senior inspector Jyotsana Rasam, assistant inspector Dattatray Gund, sub-inspectors Prashant Sable, Maitranand Khandare and Pramod Wagh and others. Patel was nabbed in Oshiwara on March 16. He shared Barge’s location who was caught on March 18 in Sindhudurg. 
 
 Investigators zeroed in on Patel and Barge while browsing employee records. The duo has been booked under IPC Section 380 (theft). They are remanded to police custody till March 21. 
 
