MANALI: Superstition mingled with rumours of   already rife in the area made the local administration order digging in a field of   village of   to be stopped on Saturday night. The administration also instructed the land owner to carry out any construction activities after first taking their permission and then too only during daytime.

 A police officer told TOI that residents of Thunag had complained that one Sohan Lal, who owns agriculture land near Kothi village, was indulging in witchcraft. They claimed that they feared he could be planning to make human sacrifice.
 
 Based on these complains, police had raided Sohan’s house last month. The cops there had discovered that the man had dug a deep tunnel in one of the rooms of his house. Villagers told police that Sohan brings many occult practitioner to his house and field.
 
 On Sunday, Janjehli sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Ashwani Kumar said he and a police team had reached Sohan’s field on Saturday late evening after some people called himabout a dispute between locals and labourers digging the pits there.
 
 “The land owner produced an agreement with a contractor and said he is building a homestay there. But, the deep pits with tunnel like L-shape were not looking like foundation for any pillar,” the SDM said, adding that villagers were unwilling to accept his explanations.
 
 Ashwani said that the case took a further turn with story was linked to treasure hunt. “We got to know that there are old tales about buried treasure in the area. A legend is popular in the area that a big battle was fought at this place in ancient times. There is a possibility that the person is trying to find that treasure for a long time and has sought help of tantriks and shamans as well.”
 
 “Although he is doing everything on his owned land, given the rage among the people we have instructed him to inform police whenever he carries out construction work. Moreover, he has been told to do any such work only in daytime.”
 
 Villagers were especially piqued as the incident came within days of the video of a teenaged girl having gone viral. In the video, the girl was seen saying that she was sold off by her father to a tantrik for human sacrifice. The girl belonged to Gohar area.
 
 However, police later booked a man under the   Justice Act for recording the video. Police suspected that father of the girl is outsider who had shifted to Gohar recently and the video was possibly made to harass him.
 
 The situation was already charged up due to the video. On Saturday night, villagers manhandled the land owner and caught seven labourers digging the pits, before calling the police.
 
