KOLKATA: A doctor has lodged a police complaint against two private hospitals in south Kolkata, accusing them of   that has led his 19-month-old daughter to be in a persistent vegetative state. The complaint also questioned what prevented the hospitals from declaring her brain dead.

 The hospitals, however, say they have become “unwitting victims” in the affair, insisting the   against them was registered after “serious differences cropped up between the girl’s parents over her future and other issues”.
 
 The condition of the girl, now on ventilator at her doctor parents’ home at  , and her parents—who seem to be looking at their and their daughter’s future very differently—have prompted us not to disclose their identity. The hospitals’ identity, too, is not being disclosed, primarily to protect the family’s privacy.
 
 The girl was first taken to hospital in August last year, when she was merely 13 months old, after she choked on some semi-solid food, being fed by her nanny. The parents, who were doctors at different hospitals, were away at work and the nanny reportedly called them up to tell them the child had lost consciousness. The girl’s mother returned home and took her to the hospital she worked in, one of the two establishments against which the FIR was registered on August 27, 2016.
 
 After a month’s stay at the hospital, the child was shifted to another facility—the second one names in the FIR —in September after her condition did not improve, cops from the east Jadavpur police station said. “The girl was at the second hospital for close to two months before she was taken home in November 2016. This was after the hospital declared it could do nothing more,” an officer said. “The complaint was lodged here on March 7 and we drew up an FIR on March 12, after a preliminary investigation. We will now call hospital officials for questioning. The complaint asks what prevents the hospitals from declaring the girl brain dead.”
 
 Officials of both hospitals said the girl was in “persistent vegetative state” and that her recovery chance was “negligible” though she could survive in this state “for several years more”. 
 
 
