HYDERABAD: Only 10 percent people out of   with hypertension in Hyderabad and   know that they are suffering from  . This could lead to a massive increase in cardiovascular diseases in the country, warned health experts. 

 Interacting with the media on the occasion of World Hypertension Day on Wednesday, hypertension specialist Dr C   said that awareness is key to prevent complications. A large population with uncontrolled hypertension despite medication is a serious concern as untreated hypertension can lead to stroke, heart failure and premature heart attack. "If not treated, it can lead to problems like kidney failure and paralysis," he said. BP should be checked even in schools, colleges and IT firms, he added. 
 
 BP should to be treated indefinitely. "BP medicines are not like antibiotics. Patients cannot stop them. If BP is being noticed in a person for the first time, it should be tracked carefully," they said.
 
  Most people have misunderstood that medicines can be stopped after the BP is controlled. In some patients, high BP could be as a result of "secondary' hypertension like thyroid, gland disease, adrenal grand problem. 
 
 Hypertension also manifests differently in different people. It is observed that BP in some people goes high when they are at a doctor's place or in hospital but normal outside. It is denoted as white coat hypertension. 
 
 In some people, the situation is reverse and it's called reverse white coat hypertension or masked hypertension. This can be diagnosed by the measuring 24-hour blood pressure (at work and home) with an automatic machine. If BP in the the heart increases, patients will be at a higher risk.
 
  BP during pregnancy can be extremely dangerous for both the mother and the foetus. Excessive alcohol use and pain relievers also can cause high BP. Unlike other ailments, hypertension does not manifest quite early.
 
  A majority of people suffering from hypertension realise only when things become complicated. Ironically, even the people, who are aware that they are suffering from hypertension, do not seek medical help. Hypertension can be controlled quite easily. 
 
 One should always keep a tab on one's blood pressure and if any abnormality is observed he or she should consult a doctor for medical advice and help.
 
