
 NAGPUR: Government Medical Colleges (GMCs) until about 15-20 years back were the most prestigious hospitals in the health sector. Since   had not developed then, GMCs were the most well equipped hospitals in terms of infrastructure, equipment, medicines and doctors. The quality of doctors was such that it attracted the elite as well.
 
 And though the   (MARD) was there then too, the problems were more of administrative type like stipend and not security. And hence there were rarely any attacks on the resident doctors as patients were the most satisfied lot as they got the best of the treatment. In past two decades government has completely withdrawn from investment in public sector and hence the issue of mistrust on doctors has arisen.
 
 Dr Anil Laddhad, a senior ophthalmologist was MARD secretary at GMCH in 1984. He tells that medicines were ample, equipment was the latest, security was always there in casualty. Strikes never happened for security. They happened only for stipend. “Once the strike lasted for 15 days. But now students have to strike for bad hostel premises, food, water etc. That time there was harmony at each level. If there was any issue against any doctor the dean would protect him in public and later punish him in private,” said Laddhad.
 
 Dr Y S Deshpande, surgeon tells that he was a MARD office bearer in 1982-83 but security was never an issue then. “Now people’s expectations have increased because they see better facilities and equipment in private sector. But every issues was resolved soon by the authorities,” he said.
 
 Dr  , medical director OCHRI, was general secretary at IGGMC. “I in fact led a state wide stir which lasted for one month. But there were never issue of security and especially any assaults. The dean would be there at every place in crisis and would solve each issue. Even the police who came for MLC cases was very pally. We carried an aura and were respected everywhere. Because GMCS had every possible treatment. There was no critical care in private. Maximum deaths so happened in GMCs but relatives never held doctors responsible for it as they knew they were getting the best,” said Marar.
 
 Dr Saurabh Varshney, cardiac surgeon was in MARD in 2001 as an official. He says that things were completely different then. All big names of doctors were with GMC. Now the atmosphere is totally different. There are no equipment. And hence residents have to face the wrath as they have to communicate with patients. It is surprising that the deans don’t meet the residents. “Now despite the 2010 court order on assault on doctors, authorities and government don’t take any action. Not a single person has been convicted so far against assault on doctor. When judiciary cannot gets its orders implemented which include security to residents what can general public or doctors expect?,” said Varshney.
 
