KOLKATA: Almost half-a-century ago, he had launched his passion on a rainy evening at Christ the King church. Less than fifty were in attendance as Neil O’Brien conducted the city’s first quiz contest with around 15 school students — an event that went largely unnoticed. But thanks to O’Brien’s tireless efforts, his towering presence and mastery over a new form of entertainment-cum-sport, quizzing gradually turned into Kolkata’s new craze. And O’Brien remained its face not only in the city but across the country till he passed away last year. On Wednesday evening, family, friends, colleagues and quizzards remembered him at an event titled “Neil O’Brien: Nostalgia, Quiz and More” at the venue where he had been quizzing since 1970 – the Dalhousie Institute. The occasion was his 83rd birth anniversary.

 While O’Brien is most widely remembered for his association with quiz, he was also an eminent educationalist, an MP and a leader of the city’s Anglo-Indian community. Being multi-faceted, he strode the quizzing stage like a Colossus for over four decades and never really retired from quizzing, felt his contemporaries. The evening was aptly flagged off with a short question-and-answer session for the audience. “Or else, he would ask ‘where’s the quiz? quipped his son Barry O’Brien, who conducted the show.
 
 It was followed by two enlightening sessions in which his colleagues and quizzards recalled his insistence on punctuality, meticulous preparation before every contest, his fatherly love for young participants and his penchant for taking a swig in between the riveting rounds of quiz that he conducted in his inimitable style. “He indulged young participants like me. Loved it when someone got the answers right. But he was a bad loser. Once, his team lost to mine while I was a student. He was livid and didn’t take it in the right spirit initially. But then he celebrated with us,” said  , a quizzard.  , a quizzing colleague recalled how he would walk up to his table and pinch his cheeks if he got an answer right.
 
 ADG (Security)  , who had been quizzing with O’   since the Eighties, said he was awestruck when he first took part in a quiz conducted by O’ Brien. “Having grown up in Delhi, I had heard him on radio. It was almost unbelievable to be personally quizzed by him,” said the IPS officer. 
 
 But behind a stern exterior, magnetic presence and disciplined planner, lived a man who loved life and enjoyed his whisky, said Barry O’Brien. “My mother wouldn’t allow him a swig till at least the second half of a show. So, he would keep asking how many rounds were left for the first half to get over. Then, he would rush and take a sip.”
 
