Chandigarh: From additional   cameras to checking bags of all visitors, and recruiting trained guards are some of the steps that Tricity schools have taken up in the wake of the murder of the seven-year-old student in Gurugram school. 

 “We have added more CCTV cameras, especially in front of the washrooms and in another block. We are trying to ensure that no male teachers or staff members go towards the junior block. We are also making another washroom outside near the field for the female attendant’s and male drivers. Further we checking the bags of all the people who enter the campus,” informed principal, Mount Carmel School, Sector 47 Chandigarh, Iona Brendish.
 
 Director Hallmark Public School Panchkula, Jivtesh Garg ha also been focusing on proper functioning of CCTV cameras to ensure the safety of the students. He added, “Police verification of all the support staff, drivers and conductors is being done and we have started issuing a visitor pass to all the visitors inside the school premises.”
 
 “We are planning to issue differently coloured identity cards to different categories of staff so that small children with the help of the color can identify who they are dealing with and can know who is to be approached in case of an emergency,” she added.
 
 Director AKSIPS Schools Jasdeep Kalra shared, “We have started orientation programme for all class 4 employees and guards. We have started a pass system for visitors for not only during school hours but also for evening activities. Proper trained guards are being deployed. We are ensuring that all CCTV cameras and GPS are functional. We further plan to appoint a trained security manager, who is a retired army person. Also a letter is being written to local police station for deputing a beat constable for our schools.”
 
 Government schools too are working towards implementing the guidelines issued by the UT education department. Some of the schools are taking further initiatives like demanding more cameras. Principal of government model senior secondary school shared that the school has sensitized the class IV staff and are getting police verification of all class IV staff done. The school has further asked the teachers to leave after dispersal by giving a school-vacant report and written remarks.
 
 
