Mohanlal’s latest movie   has hit the theatres after a long wait due to the standoff between the theatre owners and producers. The movie, which is directed by   and scripted by M Sindhuraj, promises to be a family entertainer. 
Inspired by VJ James’ short story Pranayopanishad, the movie has  ,  ,  , Srinda Arhaan and Alencier Ley as part of the cast. Here we list five reasons why the movie is a must watch:
 
 
 
 Mohanlal and Meena’s previous outing Drishyam resulted in one of Mollywood’s biggest box office draws. The duo have an amazing chemistry when they team up for a family movie. As Ulahannan and wife Annieamma in the latest movie, the two actors are sure to charm their way into the hearts of the audience.
 
 
 
 Mohanlal’s middle class protagonists have always struck a chord with the audience – be it in T P Balagopalan MA or Rasathantram or Thanmatra. Director Jibu Jacob had said that the movie will have a few scenes inspired from Sathyan Anthikad’s movies and we are sure the actor’s mannerisms would remind the fans of the same.
 
 
 The film will have a fresh combo of Anoop Menon and Mohanlal. The duo, who had earlier teamed up in Kanal, will play buddies in Munthirivallikal Thalirkumbol. Also, the latest film has Anoop Menon in a comic role that many have drawn parallels to Mukesh’s characters in their previous movies. The movie also has Alencier Ley and Kalabhavan Shajon completing the friends’ circle.
 
 
 
 Apart from the stellar cast, the film is peppered with cameos from several actors. Rahul Madhav will be playing Meena’s brother while Neha Saxena, Suresh Krishna, Joy Mathew and Suraj Venjaramoodu will be seen in critical roles that take the movie forward.
 
 
 While Vellimoonga was a political satire, this film is touted to be a take on modern relationships with themes of infidelity, love after marriage etc being portrayed brilliantly. The director has already proved his knack for keeping audience entertained while serving a meaningful message through his movies. Munthirivallikal Thalirkumbol could prove to be no different. 
 
