KOLKATA: Necessity, they say, is the mother of invention.

 Faced with the relentless onslaught of fake news on social media, the officer-in-charge of a police station in   and local residents have come together to form a virtual “resistance group” to monitor content on social   and report inflammatory material.
 
 Resistance groups — called “RG parties” in local parlance — have long been a part of the city and Bengal, primarily to patrol neighbourhoods at night to thwart robberies. “But the bigger threat comes from social media now,” a Barrackpore Commissionerate police officer said. “So we thought why not have an ‘RG party’ on social media?” he added.
 
 The group, called “Cyber RG Party”, will keep a hawk’s eye on posts on social media with content that has the potential to provoke communal tension. Cops say the idea occurred to them after they studied the pattern of violence in Baduria a fortnight back and saw how fast inflammatory content spread, thanks to social media, especially WhatsApp posts, to adjoining areas.
 
 “The Baduria trouble started from a Facebook post, which went viral very fast. But, if we are able to locate such posts early, then preventing their spread should not be difficult,” a Jagaddal police station officer said. 
 
 Jagaddal is in North 24 Parganas, a few kilometres north of Barrackpore, the same district where Baduria and Basirhat are located.
 
 Officials say the Jagaddal model of   resistance may be replicated elsewhere in Bengal if it proves successful in combating the online menace.
 
 The first step in Jagaddal was to gather a few enthusiasts who were internet-savvy and regulars on social networking sites. “Youngsters are quite active in cyber space and are ideal to keep tabs on these developments. So we have formed a core team packed with youngsters. They will eventually rope in other friends and spread the network,” group convenor Amit Kumar Shaw said.
 
 Kakinada resident Tauqeer Kamar has seen how communally sensitive posts and fake news create tension. “There are comments and photos that are posted on social networking sites from fake IDs. We will try to find out the persons behind such posts and will try to convince them to withdraw them. We will also try to talk to people who share such posts ,” Kamar, another member of the team, said. The core team met under the guidance of Jagaddal police station officer-in-charge Sanjiv Chakraborty last week to chalk out the nitty-gritty of the project.
 
 “They will have to inform police once they spot such posts. Police can initiate a case against offenders under Indian Penal Code Sections 153A, 295A and 505 for promoting enmity between groups on religious grounds, deliberate attempts to outrage religious feelings and spreading rumours/statements causing fear or alarm in public,” cyber lawyer and member of the core team Bivas Chatterjee said.
 
 “The idea is to involve locals and citizens. We have also opened helplines and distributed pamphlets so that people can inform us immediately,” North 24-Parganas superintendent of police C Sudhakar said.
 
 Cops have already created Facebook pages and email IDs where people can intimate cops about offensive posts. “The group has started distributing pamphlets and we have already seen responses from people. We will not divulge the identity of persons who inform us,” an official from the Barrackpore Commissionerate said.
 
 
