Bengaluru: It’s a distressing experience for near and dear ones to watch those they love slowly lose control of their mind.   – a chronic disorder that is an umbrella term for a set of mental diseases including Alzheimer’s – is a widespread condition in the country, and healthcare experts believe that it is vital to sensitise the public about the troubles that the afflicted patients go through.

 For nearly two years, 55-year-old Anupama G, a market coordinator in a city-based firm suffered sleepless nights, as she watched her husband, Suresh Babu, 57, slowly lose his memory. Suresh also started displaying changes in his personality, and his reasoning skills waned – all signs of dementia. Anupama’s sense of helplessness gave way to despair after Suresh started growing increasingly violent, and when he could no longer control his bodily functions such as urination. This was 10 years ago. 
 
 Anupama said that, for nearly seven years, she didn’t know whom to consult to treat her husband. “My husband was diagnosed with dementia seven years after he first started showing signs. Doctors couldn’t recognise the symptoms initially. Also, I couldn’t find a trained caregiver who could look after him when I left for work. Despite increasing number of dementia cases in India, the state and central governments has shown little interest to help out patients, either financially or by means of opening caregiving centres,” said Anupama, who finally managed to find a trained caregiver three years ago for Suresh from the Nightingales Medical Trust (NMT), one of the two support centres for dementia in Bengaluru – the other being the National Institute of Mental Health and Neuro Sciences (NIMHANS).
 
 Despite the widespread prevalence of the disorder in the country – World Alzheimer’s Report published in 2015, there are 4.1 million people afflicted by the problem – there are few institutes in the country that provide formal training for individuals to become caregivers. Paucity of caregivers has had another undesired side-effect – increase in depression and guilt-related disorders among family members of dementia patients.
 
 Anupama said that many of their relatives refused to help her in what was a troubling period, owing to the stigma attached to the illness. “I was all alone, and did not know how to take care of a grown-up who was behaving like a two-year-old. I slowly sank into depression,” she said.
 
 Sruthi Srinivasan, psychologist and care manager at Nightingale’s Centre for Ageing and Alzheimer’s, said, “Family members often don the role of caregivers for dementia patients. Dementia alters behaviour. As a result, caregivers need to adjust their home so as to make it suitable for the patient. Several caregiving skills are needed to communicate with dementia patients, and cope with their behaviour. These can be acquired only through formal training.”
 
 Centre manager at NMT’s Dementia Day Care, Susan Jaison listed some of the major concerns that untrained caregivers had to contend with while dealing with dementia patients. “Loss, grief, stigma, financial difficulties, isolation, stress and tension are some of the major setbacks,” she added.
 
 ‘Govt needs to treat dementia as a healthcare priority’
 
 To tackle the problem of shortage of trained caregivers, government must include formal training for dementia patients as a compulsory subject in the medical curriculum. Besides the theoretical aspects of dementia and the associated disorders, medical and paramedical staff need to be made aware of non-pharmacological interventions and their importance. The government needs to treat dementia as a healthcare priority. Setting up active ageing centres, in collaboration with voluntary organisations to work towards reducing the chances of contracting dementia, training personnel at primary health centres and funding research and training programmes to help deal with dementia patients.
 
 - Dr Radha S Murthy | Managing Trustee at Nightingales Medical Trust
 
 
