CHENNAI: Prime Minister  's two-day visit to   has evoked hardly any opposition from Tamil Nadu   Since the 2009  , politicians in the state have not spared an opportunity to oppose the visit of any Indian leader to Lanka or allow any Lankan leader or even a cricket player to visit Tamil Nadu.

 Even in March, superstar Rajinikanth was prevented from visiting Lanka. But this time, there has been no opposition or any protest on the streets against the visit of Modi. Apart from a statement from DMK working president M K Stalin asking Modi to use his influence to secure the release of fishermen in Lankan prison along with their boats, no other party leader has re leased any statement opposing the visit.
 
 Analysts say that the ruling AIADMK is riven with factionalism and has no time to look into other issues. MDMK chief Vaiko, the vociferous supporter of LTTE is in prison and other smaller parties are silent.
 
 “Over a period at least the big parties have matured and they must be feeling that by just opposing a visit not cut much ice will be cut with Eelam Tamils. During this visit Modi is not signing any big MoUs. The other reason is many of the fringe outfits must be apprehensive of action by intelligence agencies and income tax if they raise their voice against Modi.Thus many of these outfits are silent,“ said a political analyst not willing to be named.
 
 In the past, AIADMK government under J Jayalalithaa passed a resolution in the Tamil Nadu assembly condemning the proposed visit of Prime Minister Manmohan Singh to the Commonwealth Heads of Governments meeting in Sri Lanka. Finally due to intense pressure from political parties in Tamil Nadu, Singh cancelled his visit to the island nation.
 
 The visit of the Prime Minister comes at a time the fishermen issue is not settled but Lankan experts feel that the ground reality has changed in recent times for the two Dravidian parties to raise a banner of protest. “The NDA government recently sponsored a resolution in support of Tamils in UNHCR and in Sri Lanka itself, the Tamil National Alliance under R Sampanthan is the opposition party. Thus the rights of Tamils are being safeguarded better than before,“ south Asia military specialist Col (retd) R Hariharan told TOI.
 
 In the North and  , the situation has improved with land being returned by Army to the civilians. Thus if the Lankan Tamils are settling down, they may not heed to constant protests from political parties here, said Hariharan.
 
