PIMPRI CHINCHWAD:   is growing at a fast pace and has received the maximum number of building permission. The area is close to the   (IT) Park in Hinjewadi. 

 Other areas which have witnessed a boom in construction activity are Rahatni, Ravet and Punawale villages, which are near the IT Park. Some of the other areas which have witnessed huge construction activity on the other side of Pimpri Chinchwad are Chikhli and Moshi. This is evident from the annual income of the building permission department of Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) in 2016-17.
 
 The areas of Sangvi, Pimple Saudagar, Pimple Nilakh and Wakad witnessed fast development in the past decade due to their proximity to Hinjewadi IT Park as thousands of IT professionals bought flats in these villages (fringe areas). While the building permission department in Pimple Saudagar has earned an annual income of Rs 14.39 crore, it has earned Rs 70.68 crore in Wakad.
 
 The fringe areas of Rahatni, Ravet and Punawale, which are also close to the Hinjewadi IT Park, are witnessing a boom in construction activity as the once agricultural and open land is being transformed into a concrete jungle with the new housing and commercial projects. Ravet is the second   fringe area in the city as the department has earned the second highest income of Rs 29.97 crore. Punawale is a little behind with the building permission department earning an annual income of Rs 23.82 crore this fiscal. Rahatni, which is adjacent to Pimple Saudagar, has also witnessed rapid development with the department earning an annual income of Rs 22.84 crore.
 
 Chikhli, located near Talawade IT Park and also the industrial belt of Pimpri, Chinchwad and Bhosari, has also witnessed large-scale development activity with the building department earning an annual income of Rs 28.24 crore. Moshi, located along Indrayani river, has also witnessed rapid development, as the   highway passes through it. Moreover, it is situated close to the industrial belt of Pimpri, Chinchwad and Bhosari.
 
 Ayubkhan Pathan, joint city engineer, said, “The market rates of flats and land in Chikhli and Moshi are less compared to other areas of Pimpri Chinchwad city. As a result, people wanting to buy cheaper homes are zeroing in on this place. Here large areas of greenfield are available for development.”
 
 The building permissions department has achieved the annual target of Rs 320 crore for 2016-17 by allotting over 1,200 building permissions.
 
