A retired couple from Billimora has refused to take government help of Rs 2 lakh that was announced for  . They have written to the  , saying they can afford their treatment and would not want to put any  .

   , 65, and his wife  , 60, from Billimora were on the ill-fated bus that was attacked by terrorists on July 10. “We were seated in the fourth row from the front when the terrorists attacked us. We were lucky enough to escape with minor injuries.
 
 The state government had sent an officer to our house offering an ex-gratia amount of Rs 2 lakh. But we requested the officer to strike out our name from the list and gave a written refusal to accept the amount,” said Natvarbhai, who retired from Syndicate Bank as an officer. His wife Sushilaben, too, was previously an employee of the State Bank India. “We were not grievously hurt and did not require that money for treatment. Moreover, we are well-off to take care of ourselves if any problem arises in future. We both receive our pension. Our son works with Air India as an international pilot. Why should we accept government assistance?” He added.
 
 Natvarbhai, who has also worked with the Delhi-Chakla branch of the bank in Ahmedabad, also thanked the government for having done enough for them. “They provided us all the medical help and even sent us back home by air. It is our moral responsibility not to burden the government by taking the money offered when we don’t require it,” he said. The death toll in the ill-fated Amarnath Yatra bus attack rose to eight as one of the injured was declared dead at aSrinagar Hospital on Saturday night. The bus was attacked by terrorists near Batangoo in Anantnag on July 10 evening, killing seven and injuring 18.
 
 
 
 
 According to the police spokesperson, Lalliben Patel (47), succumbed to injuries at Sher-e-Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences, Soura (SKIMS) hospital in Srinagar. Police had earlier claimed that the attack was carried out jointly by Lashkar- e-Taiba and Hizbul Mujahiddin. Pakistani terrorist Abu Ismail led a group of four to five terrorists on two motorbikes and opened fire on the unarmed pilgrims. The police have also constituted a Special Investigation Team (SIT) to probe the terror attack.
 
 So far, more than 1.5 lakh pilgrims have visited the cave shrine located in the mountainous region of south Kashmir. The 40-day long pilgrimage will conclude on August 7. As many as 21,000 paramilitary personnel in addition to state police forces have been deployed for security of the pilgrimage routes. The number of paramilitary personnel deployed this year is 9,500 more than last year.
 
