CHENNAI The Supreme Court’s stay on the counselling process for institutes that admit students based on Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) scores, has caused a stir within the student community across the country. The SC move comes due to an issue concerning awarding of  . The move has put a strain on students who depend solely on the JEE-Advanced exam which grants admissions into IITs, NITs and other centrally funded technical institutes.

 Acting on a petition which challenged the 11 marks which were awarded as grace this year, the SC on Friday called for a hiatus on counselling, halting the seat allocation process. The petitioner had submitted that the 3 misprinted questions only appeared in Hindi medium papers, but grace marks were awarded to all. Nearly 30,000 students who got admitted in the first round of counselling face an uncertainty now. 
 
 Students in the city had mixed reactions. Raghul Humayun, for instance, was quite tensed about the proceedings. Although securing a chemical engineering seat in   Madras, Humayun had set his eyes on the IIT Bombay counselling, which had his preferred course -- Energy engineering. Now, with the stalling of the counselling process, he is unsure of what would happen. 
 
 Aditya Vavre, another student, said he would wait it out. “Everyone’s marks will come down if the bonus marks are removed, so the rankings might not be affected,” he said. He says he isn’t planning to pursue anything else, though the computer science engineering seat he bagged at IIT Bombay now hangs in the balance by SC’s decision. 
 
 But, some students like U Gautham, who made it in the top 50 in the country, feel unaffected by the scenario. “Even if fresh rankings are issued, I don’t think I will lose my rank,” he says. He says his score were not affected by the addition of bonus marks, as he had attempted almost all questions correctly. “I am pretty confident I will get a computer science seat in IIT Madras if counselling were to happen again,” he said.
 
 But teachers insist that this could be a game changer for thousands of students on the fence. “There are middle level students for whom every mark is crucial for admission into the course of their choice. This decision will impact them,” said Rajesh Rajasekhar, who coaches students for JEE. 
 
