Superheroes are lauded for their superhuman capabilities. They fight crime, save the planet and get sacrificial at the drop of their hat. But they are also as human as one can possibly be. They get angry like us, have mood swings just like us, love like us and emote like us too. They are constantly battling their own issues, decisions and they also make mistakes. They are funny, sometimes corny and most often are also egotistical and arrogant like us.
 
  In fact, when you look within your group of friends there is always a chance that every friend in your group bares uncanny resemble to the traits that we relate our superheroes too.
  
  Read on to see the character traits we have picked of each superhero from the recent multi-superhero movie ‘Captain America: Civil War’, that will premiere on television this Sunday, May 14th at 1 PM and 9 PM on   and  , and see which one of your friends embodies which superhero!
  
  1. 
 
  
  
 
  
  Have you even seen Tony Stark keep quiet? Definitely not. He is like that friend who can never win the “Whoever stays quiet the longest, wins” game
  
  2. 
 
  
  
 
  
  Iron man is like that friend of yours who wants to know everything and if you don’t want to tell him, well bad luck, because he probably already knows.
  
  3. 
 
  
  
 
  
  Who doesn’t agree with the fact that Captain America is absolutely perfect? But he is like that humble friend who refuses to agree with how amazing they are. All they’ll say is “Me? Nah.”
  
  4. 
 
  
  
 
  
  We all have some friends in our life with whom we became friends only because of the mutual hatred we share for a person, just like the Avengers who only unite because of their hatred for Loki or when Iron Man and Black Panther come together only because of their hatred for Bucky #SquadGoals
  
  5. 
 
  
  
 
  
  Every group has one friend who is torn between his best friend and the person who is the right. No matter whose side he chooses, he is the traitor. But is he? Is Hawkeye the traitor if he chooses to be on the righteous Captain America’s side as opposed to Black Widow being on Iron Man’s? Well, a best friend is a best friend after all – they are inseparable and so are Hawkeye and Black Widow who eventually switches teams to be on Cap’s side!
  
  6. 
 
  
  
 
  
  Are we ready to fight yet? Did she say something to you? Me Smash! Did she wink at you? Me Smash! Did she offend you? Me Smash! Did she breathe? Me Smash!
  
  
  7. 
 
  
  
 
  
  We all have that one friend who seems like he has working since decades and yet looks fresh and pumped up like never before. The one who can work all the time and still has the energy to come back home, clean it up, go out with friends, come back home again and cook! They, my friends, are have to have been a part of Captain America’s lineage! There is simply no other explanation.
  
  8. 
 
  
  
 
  
  You may sometimes wonder, “Where does all that alcohol go?” Bet your friend was trained by Thor on excelsior! In case you are wondering what that is, it is not a drink for mortals but only meant for those on Asgard. Remember when Stan Lee drank it and immediately fell off the chair – that!
  
  9. 
 
  
  
 
  
  Just the way you would love to see Hulk and Thor in every Marvel movie, you would also love to meet that one friend who is funny and charming but doesn’t attend class every day. You are more likely to find him doing his own thing, hanging by the corridor or at the college canteen.
  
  10. 
 
  
  We all have that one friend who really knows how to make an entrance and we can’t help but be charmed, blown away or simply just excited – much like Spidey’s entrance in  . We all knew he was coming but his entrance made us want to jump off our seats and break off in a choreographed dance, out of joy!
  
  11. 
 
  
  
 
  
  Pulling off a flawless look can be really hard even at the beginning of the day. So how do you maintain that perfect look at the end of the day and not look scruffy, tired and drained out? Well, Black Widow knows how to do it and so does your friend.
  
  Get your friends together and watch Captain America: Civil War on television, for the first time ever, May 14th at 1 PM and 9 PM on Star Movies and Star Movies HD.
