Panaji:   goalkeeper   has been drafted into the Indian squad for the Fifa Under-17 World Cup after he managed to procure an Indian passport.
 
  The imposing 6 feet 5 inch goalkeeper who has played for youth teams of MLS side Toronto FC was scouted through the All India   Federation’s innovative online portal. He attended a 10-day trial in Goa early this year and impressed Portuguese coach Luis Norton de  . But it was not until Thursday when he got hold of his passport that his dream of playing in the World Cup seemed closer to realisation.
  
  “Sunny has got his passport and will join the team in Mexico. It was a (lengthy) process but I am thankful to (AIFF) president  , the sports ministry and the home ministry who made this possible,”   general secretary Kushal Das told TOI on Thursday.
  
  Sunny becomes the second PIO to be drafted into the Indian squad for the biggest football tournament on Indian soil. However, unlike US-based   who only has an Indian passport, Sunny is understood to have both Canadian and Indian passports.
  
  According to AIFF sources, the law allows minors to have multiple citizenships, but once a minor turns 18, he must make a choice within six months whether he wants to retain Indian or foreign citizenship.
  
  The goalkeeper is on the radar of several Major League Soccer (MLS) clubs after he recently trialled with DC United and Chicago Fire. He was previously with the Toronto FC Academy.
  
  “Sunny is a good find for the team. He has the talent to make it big. His height and imposing figure is a big advantage in a tournament like the World Cup but he still needs to work hard to break into the starting eleven,” said a member of the India Under-17 coaching staff.
  
  The India under-17 team currently has four goalkeepers with Manipuri lad Dheeraj Singh understood to be the number one choice for Matos for the moment. Sunny’s inclusion means other goalkeepers like Prabhsukhan Singh Gill, Mohammad Nawaz and Tamal Naskar will have to be on their toes.
  
  In fact, at least one Indian goalkeeper could be left out of the trip to Mexico later this week as the original plan to include three goalkeepers on the flight to Mexico will possibly be altered.
  
  The Indian team will leave for Mexico later this week and are scheduled to play three important friendlies against Mexico (August 3), Colombia (August 4) and Chile (August 6).
  
  The squad is preparing the Fifa Under-17 World Cup in October to be held in six venues across the country. India will be based in Delhi and have been grouped with United States, Colombia and Ghana.
