BHOPAL: A horror story has found a fairy-tale ending. Five youths who were arrested for the ‘gang-rape’ of a minor girl on a   have not only found a groom for her but also performed the   in Bhopal a few weeks ago.

 The five stepped in to “give away” the teenager’s hand because it was her father who had raped her and she didn’t want him anywhere near on her “happiest day”, said a police officer. The girl’s father is now in jail custody.
 
 The bride, who was 17 when she filed the rape complaint against them, has married the relative of one of the men she had accused. “He is a farmer and had no hesitation in marrying her although she is a rape survivor,” said a police officer. “The girl has submitted an affidavit in court that Zahid Khan, Bharat Singh Meena, Bhure, Raju, Guru Charan Bhargava and Bhure Khanall are innocent and that she was forced by her father to file a false complaint against them over a personal enmity. All five are out on bail,” said a police officer.
 
 News of the alleged gangrape had made the headlines a few months ago, as did their acquittal and the girl’s rape complaint against her father. 
 
 Investigating officer of the case, H C Ladiya, the thana in-charge of Berasia, told TOI that she was accompanied by her father when she came to lodge the FIR in May last year. “The way she narrated the sequence of gang rape, no one could doubt her. She was even taken to the spot where the alleged gang rape took place. We got all five arrested within four days and sent them to jail. Five months later, she called us to say she was raped by her father. He, too, was arrested,” said Ladiya.
 
 Neighbours helped her get in touch with a lawyer and she gave an affidavit so that the accused could be released on bail. After coming out of jail, they said that they do not hold any grudge against her and understand the predicament she was in.
 
 With her mother dead, her father in jail and her brother moving out in frustration, she was left all alone. So the five youths decided to find her a groom and get her married. “The girl is now happy,” said Ladiya.
 
