KOCHI:   are in a   The hearing and   13-year-old boy would be   river Periyar on Thursday. He has already successfully completed trials along the 700m wide stretch of the river between Aluva Manappuram and Adwaithasramam. 

 Adhith, son of   of Vattekkunnam near Edappally, approached Saji Valassery who has imparted training to many. "First I felt it was very difficult as I had to communicate and give instructions to the boy through gestures. But, he picked up the lessons quickly," Saji said.
 
 It took just 24 days training for the boy to swim across the river. "In the last one week, the boy used to stay afloat in the water in an area whether the depth is more than 30 feet for two hours on end," he said.
 
 Saji, who volunteers his service for the cause, has already trained more than 1,200 children and 90 adults. "My father V Thomas Mani was my trainer. Under his guidance acquired the skills at an age of five. Later, both us would swim across river Periyar together,'' Saji recalls his childhood.
 
 " My father was in British Indian Army. He was the winner of Madras Swimming Championship in 1946. The cup he got is still with us. When we were young we could not recognize its value. So, we used to play with it and it got damaged," he says.
 
 In 2010, Saji imparted training to his daughter Merin Saji and son Jerin Saji. "Two kids of my friend also were there for learning. My daughter who was 12 year-old then swam across the river that year itself while son crossed the river at the age of 8 in 2011. Jerin has won first prize in the state school swimming championship in 2015 while Merin wonthe third prize," he said.
 
 In 2014, Saji trained Krishna S Kamath, seven-year-old girl with congential spine disorders and she swam across the river.
 
  In 2015, Navaneeth M S, an 12-year-old boy lacking eyesight also swam across the river under his guidance. The next year, it was a five-and-a-half-year old girl Nivetha who crossed the river as his disciple.
 
  In 2017,  , a man who can't move his right hand and an employee of Aluva Taluk office, to cross the river. Malu Sheika, 20-year-old-woman, swam across 8km-long Vembanad lake near Muhamma. According to Saji, he would continue to impart training free of cost until there are needy.
 
 
