NAGPUR: The   (AIIMS) which is supposed to start at   (GMCH) on temporary basis will not begin from 2017-18 academic sessions. The admission process for AIIMS has already started and only the seven regular AIIMS centres are being displayed in the process while Nagpur is nowhere in the list. 

 The central government was sure of beginning AIIMS from 2018-19 session. However, efforts to get the ball rolling from 2017-18 itself were still being made by the state government and union minister  . 
 
 In December, Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER) wrote a letter to the centre for giving consent to operate AIIMS at GMCH on temporary basis. In the same letter, DMER had also made a request to centre to begin AIIMS from 2017-18 academic sessions and assured all compliances.
 
 Director of Pt Deendayal Upadhyay Institute of Medical Sciences and Human Resources Dr Viral Kamdar, who is involved with the project, said, “Since the list of institute is already out there is a minimum chance that   will begin from the upcoming session.”
 
 Kamdar, who is advisor to Gadkari, said, “We are still trying. If at all things work for us and it is decided to begin AIIMS from 2017-18 session, a supplementary list might be released for any newly added AIIMS centre.”
 
 In November 2016, the centre had rejected ESIC hospital, which was earlier proposed to begin AIIMS on temporary basis. In a letter, the centre had shown interest in starting AIIMS at GMCH on temporary basis. It was then decided that a team from centre will visit GMCH during January and check all the requirements to begin AIIMS. 
 
 However, with just a few days to end in January, the team has still not visited the site. Kamdar told there are still vague chances that the team might visit in the first week of February, following which a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) will be signed between centre and GMCH.
 
 Various types of formalities like appointment of staff, upgradation of infrastructure at GMCH at par with AIIMS will be done after the execution of MoU between AIIMS and GMCH.
 
