RAJKOT: The family members of Altaf  , a native of Dhoraji town near Rajkot, who was arrested in Mumbai for allegedly working for Pakistan spy agency  , claim he is innocent and alleged has been framed in a conspiracy by the government.

 Qureshi, 37, was arrested late on Wednesday night from the   area in South Mumbai, in a joint operation by the anti- terrorist squads of Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra. This morning, police also arrested his aide, Javed Iqbal, from the   building at Agripada in Mumbai. Qureshi, booked under the Official Secrets Act, allegedly passed on information about the Indian Army’s movements to officers in the Pakistan High Commission and also to the ISI, police officials said.
 
 On learning of his arrest, Qureshi’s younger brother Munaf told mediapersons in Dhoraji, that he is a simple man who could never be part of such activities.
 
 “Altaf left for Mumbai four years ago, in search of better employment opportunities. He left behind his three-year-old daughter, wife and other family members in Dhoraji,” said Munaf, who earns his livelihood as painter in Dhoraji.
 
 “We can’t believe that Altaf can be an ISI operative and receive huge sums of money from the ISI. We are a very poor family and everybody can see it. He has been framed,” Munaf said. “If such claims are true, efforts must be made to nab all those who are linked with the ISI,” he added.
 
 “This is a conspiracy by the government, to frame innocent people like Altaf who come from poor backgrounds. If he was connected to the ISI, where are the others working for it? Why only Altaf? How is it possible that only he was working for the ISI,” Munaf asked.
 
 Altaf’s mother, Zarinabanu, also vouched for her son’s innocence, saying he couldn’t do anything like what he has been accused of.
 
 “My son is innocent. He can never indulge in such activities. It seems like someone has framed him. He is a very simple person,” a tearful Zarinabanu told mediapersons, outside their small house in the Vohravad area of Dhoraji.
 
