PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: A plan for the development and rejuvenation of the Pavana and Indrayani rivers passing through   is in the offing. 

 While it will take a year for the private consultant to prepare a feasibility study for both the rivers, the actual implementation of the planned works will start in five years. The environment department of the   has invited bids from private consultants. 
 
 The feasibility study will include surveys and satellite images would be taken after which a base map and a detailed project report will be prepared.
 
 The consultant would have to prepare presentations through 3D walkthroughs, and include river development concepts such as heritage conservation, cultural use, greenery, beautification, and landscaping depending on the characteristics of the rivers. 
 
 Former municipal commissioner Dinesh Waghmare while presenting the annual budget for 2017-18, said the   front development project has been listed in the Smart City project. 
 
 Pimpri Chinchwad has been included in the Smart City list last December just before the municipal elections. Waghmare said in the initial phase, Rs 150 crore has been allocated for riverfront development, which will include landscaping, plantation of trees along the river banks, jogging and cycle tracks. 
 
 The civic body had submitted a detailed project report five years ago about Pavana riverfront development to the Union environment ministry. However, the plan could not be implemented due to a funds crunch.
 
 For the Pavana and Indrayani rivers, a detailed project report shall be prepared. It includes flood mitigation plan, pollution prevention, streamlining of river embankments, retaining walls, detailed road designs, ramps and ghats. Under the flood mitigation plan, hydraulic studies are to be carried out to examine the possibilities of flood risk, inundation and to carry out mitigation measures. For the rivers, studies will have to be carried out if any rehabilitation of houses is to be carried out. 
 
 Sanjay Kulkarni, executive engineer, environment department, PCMC said, “The civic body wants to make Pavana and Indrayani rivers pollution free and free flowing. As a result we will be appointing a project management consultant to prepare the report. He will study the river and nullahs joining it at various points. He will study the flow of water from the nullahs into the rivers. He will suggest measures for cleaning the river and making it pollution free.”
 
 Public consultations with resident welfare associations, experts in various fields, various forums and elected representatives will have to be carried out to create awareness and develop consensus about the project. The consultant should support the municipal corporation for appointment of various architects for implementation of various sub projects. One of the objectives is to form a special purpose vehicle for management of river projects, and establish means of generating funds to make it financially self-sustainable. 
 
 
