CHENNAI: Even as a TOI report on mass death of cattle in Salem district due to drought and shortage of water and fodder sent shock waves and became a subject matter of a PIL in   on Thursday, district authorities went into complete denial mode and said no cattle deaths or famine had been reported in the district. 

 TOI article titled 'Over 500 cows, bulls die in 25 days in Salem' was mentioned before a   of Justice   and Justice   by Congress lawyer   in the morning. Moved by the photographs showing the plight of cattle, the bench agreed to hear it as an urgent case. In the evening it issued notices to authorities, and directed them to furnish details of the deaths by Friday.
 
 The district administration, however, issued a press statement in the evening saying joint director of animal husbandry Loganathan had been deputed by district collector V Sampath to visit the affected regions, study the issue and file a report. In his report later, Loganathan said his team had not seen any carcasses and decomposed cows in any village, including Gobinatham, Govindapadi, Jamburuttipattu, Alambadi and Yemanur.
 
 "We have visited Govindapadi, Karaikkadu, Settipatty, Kathiripatty and Palar check post. We have not seen any such cow death incidents in the area," Loganathan said. He also said villagers in these villages confirmed that their cows had not died in recent days.
 
 In the morning, bringing the TOI report and a similar documentary telecast in a Tamil news channel to court's notice, Suryaprakasam said it was his fundamental duty to take all necessary measures within his means to protect all living creatures as mandated by Article 51(A) of the Constitution.
 
 Citing the example of Karnataka, Suryaprakasam said the neighbouring state had anticipated the severe drought, and so opened several thousand of goshalas to provide free fodder and plenty of drinking water to cattle. By easing the sufferings of farmers and the heads of cattle, Karnataka saved several thousand animals from certain death.
 
 If no meaningful action is taken by   government authorities urgently, it will cause untold hardship to the farming community, which is a loss to the nation also, Suryaprakasam argued.
 
 He said it was heart-wrenching to observe poor farmers committing suicides unable to bear the bear cross losses caused by severe drought, or being left with no means to provide water and fodder to their cattle. They allowing their cattle to die on its own, he said.
 
 The official statement, however, said animal husbandry department had set up a fodder depot and made water available at all veterinary hospitals across the district. Awareness is being created among farmers on maintenance of cattle, it said.
 
