KOTTAYAM: Posters displaying excerpts from Eva Ensler's episodic play "The  " divided a college here, besides triggering clashes between the members of two students unions. 

 The posters even forced women teachers and girl students to take over the stage during the college day function and issue a boycott call.
 
 The clashes later spread out of the campus, leaving several KSU activists injured. Later in the evening, two SFI leaders, including the district president, were hacked outside the   premises.
 
 The series of incidents began with the SFI-led students' union of KE College at Mannanam celebrating the International Women's Day on Wednesday. As part of the celebrations, the union reportedly translated extracts from "The Vagina Monologues," and displayed them on the campus.
 
 The translator, however, went overboard and used derogatory Malayalam terms to refer to the vagina. Several women teachers and girl students found the texts and accompanying illustrations insulting rather than celebrating womanhood.
 
 Besides excerpts from the play, a few other posters-in English and Malayalam-also had derogatory texts, which could not be published here.
 
 While the protesting teachers, students and even the posters claimed that the SFI-led union was behind the obscene texts, the college management said it was not aware of those who had put up the posters.
 
 The protesters, including the college's women's forum, raised the issue with the management on Wednesday.
 
 "The words which were prominently displayed in the posters are those which one cannot speak in a family," said  , convenor of the women's forum. "If you check these words in the 'Shabdatharavaly' (Malayalam dictionary) they are termed as obscene," she added.
 
 Paul further said that it was illegal to display such texts where minors frequent. The college has students as young as 17. After the issue was raised, college principal Fr  , on Wednesday, held talks with students' union chairman Nidhin Sunny.
 
 "The chairman agreed to seek pardon for the act in his address at the college day function on Friday. He, however, went back on his word, and even as the guests of honour, the cast of a Malayalam movie, looked, women teachers and students took over the stage. The teachers then called for a boycott of the function," Paul said. Meanwhile, on Friday morning, the KSU and   activists took out a protest rally to the college, and later marched to the police station for lodging a complaint. The march was allegedly prevented and attacked by SFI activists at Mannanam town, which left several KSU workers injured.
 
 Later in the day, some unidentified men attacked SFI activists, who were standing in front of the MG University campus. The injured included SFI district president K M Arun. SFI alleged that a KSU contracted gang was behind the attack.
 
