NAGPUR: The 5GB data recovered from the computer hard disk of alleged forged  , 68-year-old Vinay Bhatia, could open a pandora’s box by exposing the nexus between private agents and nazul department. Though the arrest of Bhatia on Thursday came after district administration took the initiative, some cops feel an insider in the nazul department was working with him.

 Bhatia, working as a private agent at the collector office for several years, is learnt to have represented several top doctors, hospitals and business houses, to help them renew their nazul leases and sort out other issues related to the collector office. Sources at nazul department said Bhatia had been charging handsome amounts to represent people and get their work done in the nazul department.
 
 Police sources said Bhatia had complained to collector Sachin Kurve that officials of nazul department were harassing citizens and demanding monetary favours. The collector office is learnt to have called up a doctor, whom Bhatia represented, to inquire whether he was harassed by any officials of nazul department. The doctor is learnt to have said that he was not harassed by anyone, as mentioned by Bhatia. After this, collector Kurve asked nazul department officials and police to conduct a joint search at Bhatia’s residence and office.
 
 Bajaj Nagar police swung into action earlier this week, following a complaint by nazul tehsildar Vinita Lanjewar, and conducted a search at the Laxmi Nagar office of Bhatia. Police, in the presence of revenue team, seized two seals of returning officer from  , one of city survey officer and another of returning officer of  . The joint team also came across an original nazul register of 2008-09 and some other fake documents.
 
 Bhatia was arrested and had been remanded to police custody till Saturday. Police are yet to take a decision on extending his custody remand. Police sources said that Bhatia claims to have got the seals and registers from the garbage bin in the collector office.
 
 Apart from the documents, the joint team had seized the computer hard disk from the office of Bhatia. On Friday, Bajaj Nagar police summoned a digital forensic expert to recover data from the computer hard disk. A person associated with the probe said the data would be sent to nazul department in digitized form to compare with the records kept with them. “It is only after comparing the data recovered from Bhatia’s computer and records, and the original at nazul, would the real position come to fore regarding bogus leases and other certificates issued to organizations or individuals,” he said.
 
  said she would now ensure that agents are not allowed to represent others. “The property holders must appear with identification proof for any work at nazul department now,” she said. “We are also going to be more alert regarding documentation and registers,” she said. The tehsildar also expressed shock that Bhatia was in possession of original nazul register of 2008-09.
 
