There was a time when the  ,   and telegrams took place twice a day, in the morning and evening. Now, consider yourself lucky if you get it even once a day and that too when you are not asleep. Staff crunch and ever expanding civic limits of Ahmedabad is putting a severe pressure on the   to make timely delivery of mail. A postman usually makes 250 deliveries a day but in certain post offices of Ahmedabad he has to slog 16 hours, even on holidays, to make 1,000 deliveries because there are not enough like him.

 The problem is particularly compounded in Science City Road locality where mail is often delivered after midnight. Chief Post master General (CPMG) Sitaram Meena said, “As of now we have a shortage of 30-40%. The shortage is not in rural areas and is concentrated in urban areas, especially in Ahmedabad and Surat. The population of these two cities in on the rise but our staff strength is not able to keep up with it.
 
 “We had conducted departmental exams to recruit more staff. However, we had some issues with the test as candidates resorted to cheating and copying. So we will conduct the exams next month, again. We are also planning to outsource work to local couriers so as to mitigate the delays.” Gujarat Postal Staff Secretary and   Working President R D Purohit said, “In all post offices across Gujarat at least 3-4 posts are vacant and the excess work load has to be borne by limited staff. A single postman can make a maximum of 250 deliveries in a day which include ordinary post, registered post and money orders.
 
 These include about 50-60 deliveries against signature. At some places a single post man has to make over 1,000 deliveries in a day, which is four times the normal work. “Our staffers work 16 hours a day and even work on holidays. This apart, three of our postmen died on duty recently after suffering a massive heart attack. We have written to the Central Labour Commission informing them about the acute staff shortage we face.” “The Labour Commission issued a notification after which the postal department arranged a recruitment exam. However, many complaints cheating and copying were received and the results were declared null and void.
 
 The next exam will be held in February. The- re is major staff shortage in post offices bordering Ahmedabad such as Sola HC, Bodakdev, Vastral, Ranip. Nikol, Chandlodia, Chandkheda, Navrangpura, Ghatlodia.” Postmaster of Sola HC post office M P Dodiya, said, “We have 6 postmen working in our post office and we are short of two. Here one staffer does two men’s job. Some of our postmen work from 9 am in the morning till 1am in the night, every day.” Sola HC post office postman I K Bodana said, “I make a lot of deliveries each day in the Science City area which takes a lot of time, sometimes as late as 1 in the night. Still the pressure of pending work is always high which cannot be ignored, else it will pile up.”
 
 Ghotladia post man R H Patel said, “We have a strength of 20 instead of the required 24 postmen. Next month one of our staff members will retire. This spikes our workload, notwithstanding the overtime we put in.” B K Valania, a retired 60-year-old postman, gives voluntary service. Talking to Mirror, he said: “Shahibaug post office has 34 positions for postmen. However, at present only 21 are on job. Rest of the positions have been lying vacant since people retired. I have been associated with this profession 35 years and am giving voluntary service so that the mail delivery work does not suffer.” Meanwhile people living in Science City area claim they are fed up with the poor service of the local postmen.
 
