MUMBAI: March 31 was a special day for Mumbai resident Vidhula Bhatt as her son Viraj took, for the first time, a circuitous flight from Varanasi to Kolkata to Bengaluru. Viraj isn’t a teenager, but all of 29 years old. What is different about him is the fact that he has   and is among the few with the disorder who has a steady job. “He works with SAP India in Bengaluru and his seniors are happy with his work,” said Vidhula.

 Autism is a neurological disorder characterised by uneven development and poor social skills, among others. So while Viraj is a self-taught computer geek, he had trouble picking up lessons at school.
 
 On the occasion of World   Day on Sunday, a press release by Forum For Autism ( ), a parents’ support group, said they are working to create job opportunities for young adults with autism.
 
 “FFA has been engaging with various organisations such as Kshitij, Anchorage, Arpan, Sols Arc, Together Foundation, Yellow Chilli restaurants to ensure opportunities for young adults beyond their schooling years,” it said. As autism is a spectrum disorder (some persons have very high IQ and are called savants), FFA members have worked towards creating jobs in international companies like J P Morgan, SAP and HPCL. “JP Morgan has offered internships to two Mumbai youngsters with autism. After training, they stand a chance of getting absorbed in the company,” said Chitra Iyer of FFA.
 
 In the West, companies like Microsoft employ autistic persons; some firms say they are focused, committed and less likely to leave after learning the job. So what has brought about this change? Parul Kumtha, a parent and FFA founder, believes it is opportunity to study that has helped. “Previously, our children could never complete a degree as they were never offered concessions. But now concessions are offered right up to degree level,” she said.
 
 Merry Barua of Action for Autism, however, said there is a still a long way to go. “In the West, companies have a policy to hire autistic persons, but the same company here won’t do that,” she said.
 
