LUDHIANA: A four time   medalist, one silver in the  , 8 gold medals in  , Priyanka has it all but even then she finds no support from the government for her treatment of cancer and getting sponsors to participate in national championships.

 Last year in May, 16-year-old Priyanaka, while giving her test for the Black bet felt some fatigues along with vomit. After getting the blood test done she found that she is diagnosed with blood cancer as her white blood cells were high. But she was determined to fight back despite poverty being one of the major hindrances.
 
 Her both parents are factory labour’s, and her father is mostly drunk and doesn't cares about the family. Priyanka is second youngest among all her seven sisters and hopes to take herself forward in this field.
 
 Talking to Priyanka about the same she says, “I was broken and shattered when I was diagnosed with cancer and a lot of counseling was done each day and I was determined to fight it back.”
 
 According to the doctors, her cancer was in primary stage when she underwent a blood test which revealed that the production of the white blood cells in her body was above one lakh.
 
 For her treatment, her coach Charanjit Kumar has been running with her from pillar to post for her treatment and collecting funds. He says, “For her treatment we just got CM fund of Rs.1.5 lakh. Finally, Helping Hand NGO supported us and got her 10 radiation therapy for free while the rest of the money was arranged by family by selling the plot for Rs70k and rest by taking loans from people. He further says, “It’s really sad that a girl who has reached this level has no support and there have been times when she had to miss her national championship because of lack of funds and no sponsorship.”
 
 Currently, Priyanka has completed her intensive treatment of 8 months which included 10 rounds of radiation therapy and 10 rounds of chemotherapy.
 
 While talking to Priyanka she says, “I am trained in 3 forms of martial arts which are taekwondo, choikwang do, and karate. If I was not diagnosed with cancer then I would have gone for boxing too. I was determined to fight back the cancer but it was a tough journey and I was not even sure if I will survive or not. When I lost all my hair, I thought it was better to die rather than living like this. Now, I will be resuming my training from June.
 
 Charanjit Kumar, who is a trainer in SGP College for   and SGP senior secondary school said, “Priyanaka started learning karate in class 4th. For the past 3 months we have applied for the PM fund but we were not getting any response. Currently Priyanka is not playing but has learned self-defensive techniques. Last she played was in April 2016.”
 
 
 
 
 
 2012- Gold medal in state karate championship
 
 2012- Gold medal in state championship in October
 
 2013- Gold medal in state championship in May
 
 2013- Gold in North India karate championship in Oct
 
 2013- Gold medal in state Choikwang do in Oct
 
 2013- Two gold medals in state Taekwondo in Nov
 
 2014- Gold in state karate championship in July
 
 2014- 1 silver, 1 gold in national karate championship in Oct
 
 2015- Gold medal in state championship in May
 
 2015- 3 gold in national karate championship in Dec
 
 2016- Gold in state karate championship in April
 
 2016- Passed test in Punjab karate federation recognized in May
 
 
 
 
 Rs 1.5 lakh from CM fund
 
 * Radiation therapy free of cost supported by NGO.
 
 * 2.50 lakh spent by family including swing of plot for Rs70k.
 
 
