Trichy: The department of family welfare in Trichy has identified 937 couples with more than two children who come under high order birth category (HOB) in six taluks in the district. Department sources say what has hampered its efforts to propagate birth control measures is the fact that non-scalpel vasectomy (NSV) for men remains a taboo among people in both urban and rural Trichy. 

 A false belief that they will turn impotent due to the minor surgery is what has prompted the men to shy away from the contraceptive measure for a long time now. Despite working towards reducing population in the country, the unawareness of the people about contraceptive measures due to illiteracy and other factors continued to pose hurdles. Officials said that the department was tired of attempting to convince men to undergo NSV for fertility control. It managed to persuade 52 men of HOB to undergo NSV in 2016-17 whereas the number of women who went for tubectomy, a permanent measure, stood at 10,564 in the same year. A total of 15,716 women used intrauterine contraceptive device (IUCD), a temporary measure. 
 
 Both men and women were obsessed with the false belief that men will lose their virility after undergoing NSV. It was a matter of willingness of the eligible men to take up NSV which could not be achieved through compulsion by the health department, the officials said. “The false belief about NSV is deep-rooted in our society. Health department has been trying to explain that there will be no side-effects or changes in sexual activity of the men. The only effect that NSV will have is on preventing reproduction by interrupting the release of sperm,” said deputy director of health services Dr I Raveendran to TOI. 
 
 In several cases, women also did not want to undergo contraceptive measures due to pressure from family and husband thus forcing the officials to look for men to undergo NSV. However, the women themselves prevented their husbands from taking up NSV. “It is still hard to convince the men. Yet, we are making continuous efforts,” said deputy director of health services (DDHS), family welfare, Dr Elizabeth Rani. 
 
 
