NAGPUR:In another goof up,   distributed wrong question paper to final-year students of   (BSc annual pattern) during their exam on March 21. The blunder forced the university to postpone the exam of Statistics Paper-I by over a month. The paper has been rescheduled to April 27.

 Surprisingly, the exam section’s move to upload the notification regarding the postponing of exam on its website in back date raises questions whether it is trying to hush up the issue. The notification is dated March 21, the exam day, while the upload date mentioned is March 27.
 
 On Wednesday, director, Board of Examinations and Evaluations, Neeraj Khaty didn’t respond to TOI calls. 
 
 Vice chancellor SP Kane admitted that BSc final-year students were given wrong question papers. “Yes, it did happen. It is a batch of 14 students of yearly pattern. It was their last attempt in the old pattern. Their final-year batch has already passed out. They have Statistics Paper-I and Paper-II. After online delivery, the papers were printed at the exam centre and distributed to students. But the students soon pointed out that it wasn’t the question paper scheduled for that day.”
 
 He added that actually Statistics Paper-II was printed and distributed, which was scheduled for a later date. “A complaint was made and it was decided to postpone the exam. The Paper-II was reset and conducted as per schedule. Only, Paper-I will be re-conducted,” he said. 
 
 On the goof up, Kane said the mistake took place at the moderation level and so the issue will be investigated. “The action will be taken as per the gravity of the mistake.”
 
 On November 30, 2016, about 100 students appearing for LLM first semester examinations at Dhanwate National College (DNC) had received a shock when they were handed over the wrong question paper. When some students pointed out the mistake, they were given the new set.
 
 On February 1, TOI had reported how LLB (3 years) first semester papers were evaluated as per new rules while the students answered papers as per the old marking rules.
 
 
