NEW DELHI: The   has   245 buses over the past two days during a safety drive in the wake of the recent murder of a student at Ryan International School in Gurgaon. But schools claimed that the move had harmed the students most. 

 Several drivers, schools pointed out, have refused to report to duty due to fear of transport department officials. With mid-term exams round the corner, this uncertainty over transport has been troubling the parents, they claimed. The transport department has been checking school bus conductors for their credentials. According to S K Bhattacharya of Action Committee of Unaided Recognised Private Schools, the department should have given the schools a five-seven day notice. “Action must be taken against whoever doesn’t comply. But such sudden actions create a panic among parents every day and trouble the children and the school management too,” said Bhattacharya, the president of Bal Bharti School. 
 
 Manit Jain, director of The Heritage schools, agreed. He said instead of impounding buses, the department should inform schools. A bus of The Heritage, Rohini, was impounded on Wednesday “on grounds that the conductor was not carrying his original driving licence with him”.
 
 “This amounts to harassment. Many conductors carry a colour photocopy. Officials can always keep the driver’s licence and ask the conductor to produce the original later, or ask the school authorities to be more careful,” he suggested.
 
 According to Bhattacharya, 90% of the schools have licensed conductors. “But sometimes a substitute has to be sent, and it gets difficult to check everybody.” 
 
 Bharat Arora, the director of Mount Abu School, said that as per the CBSE guidelines, a teacher and a female attendant were always present in a bus. “But the problem is that the   have been clubbed with DTC buses for transport rules. While DTC conductors have more on their hands, school bus conductors just help in petty jobs like manoeuvring the vehicle.” 
 
 Bhattacharya suggested that the government meet the private schools to draft a plan to make them responsible for the vehicles. 
 
 
