NAGPUR: The Nagpur   have been taking a number of measures to curb the   in the city, it remains a menace for them nevertheless.

 In the first two months this year itself, the traffic police have already booked 3,851 motorists and drivers for riding or driving under the influence of liquor. This figure roughly translates to 62 errant motorists per day and about three drunken drivers per hour.
 
 “Every week, we book more than 400 cases. Despite all the measures, the menace of drunken driving has not declined,” deputy commissioner of police Smartna Patil said.
 
 But now with an aim to bringing down this figure, the traffic police have started organizing counselling sessions for those who were caught driving under the influence of liquor. On Monday, the department organized its second counselling session for the violators.
 
 According to Patil, the main reason for the large number of cases is the attitude of people towards their own and others’ safety. Nearly 200 persons, caught for drunken driving last week, were summoned to attend the counselling session. During the session, she told them to quit the habit of driving vehicles under the influence of alcohol.
 
 She told them to think about their family before driving the vehicles after consuming alcohol. She also explained the dangers of the practice of drunken driving which she said could claim innocent lives.
 
 Traffic police in association with city-based NGOs Janaakrosh and Maitri Parivar, associated with substance abuse rehabilitation, has started a project called, ‘counselling for drunk and drive’, this month for all offenders held for driving under the influence of alcohol.
 
 “We have counselled more than 500 drunken driving offenders this month so far. Most of them are from economically and socially weak backgrounds like vegetable vendors and auto drivers,” the DCP said.
 
 As a stern warning to those caught in drunken driving, Patil said, “Don’t get caught for drinking and driving, you may land in jail. It will lead to problems for you and your family too. Government employees may even lose jobs if convicted. No passport will be issued if drunken driving conviction information is suppressed during application.”
 
 Deputy RTO Ravindra Bhuyar also counselled the offenders on Monday. He made it clear to everybody booked for the offence that repeat of it would lead to cancellation of driving licence. First time offender will face suspension of driving licence for a period of minimum 30 days to 90 days, he said.
 
