NOIDA/GHAZIABAD: An analysis of poll affidavits submitted by candidates for the first phase of assembly elections in UP, scheduled for February 11, has revealed that nine of the top 10 richest candidates in the fray in   are from Ghaziabad. 

 The analysis has also revealed that the top five candidates with maximum criminal cases against them are also from Ghaziabad.
 
 The Association for Democratic Reforms ( ), an Ahmedabad-based non-political group working in the field of electoral reforms, which conducted the analysis, released the report on Saturday.
 
  turncoat Sudhan Rawat, a realtor, who is contesting on a BSP ticket from Muradnagar seat of Ghaziabad, is the richest candidate in the fray in NCR. Rawat, who has total assets worth Rs 33.30 crore, is ranked the 10th richest candidate among those contesting in the first phase of  . The list is topped by Nazir Ahamad of Congress, who is contesting from the Agra South assembly constituency. Ahamad has total assets worth over Rs 211 crore. The only candidate from GB Nagar who figures in this list is Sunil Chaudhary of Samajwadi Party, who is contesting from the Noida assembly constituency for the second time in a row.
 
 Nand Kishor Gujjar, former BJP district president of Ghaziabad, who is contesting from the Loni assembly seat of Ghaziabad, has the maximum number of criminal cases against him. Gujjar, who runs a social organisation called Azgar Sena, has been named an accused in five cases. While charges were framed against him in three of these, he is yet to be convicted in any of them.
 
 Though NCR boasts of a number of crorepati candidates, at least three of them have not furnished their income tax return certificates along with their poll affidavits. They include Zakir Ali of BSP, who is contesting from Loni and has total assets worth over Rs 18 crore, and Wahab Chaudhary, also of BSP, who is contesting from Modi Nagar and has total assets worth over Rs 7.72 crore. Prem Singh of Rashtriya Janhit Sangharsh Party, who is contesting from the Noida assembly seat, has assets of over Rs 5.30 crore. However, Singh, too, hasn’t furnished his income tax return certificate.
 
 Modinagar assembly seat in Ghaziabad has the maximum number of five candidates with criminal cases against them. Three candidates each from Dadri and Loni are also named as accused in various criminal cases.
 
 
