Beijing: China has opted for the lowest economic growth target in over a quarter century, pegging it at 6.5% in 2017, which will be a tad lower than last year, as it seeks to rebalance its strategy by addressing debt concerns.

 Gross domestic product ( ) grew 6.7%, the slowest in 26 years, but within the government’s target of 6.5-7%. There has been a deceleration in China’s growth, which was in double digits till 2010, and is impacting overall global growth.
 
 A 6.5% growth rate during 2017 will mean that India will remain the fastest growing major economy in the world with the   projecting 7.2% expansion during 2017-18. It had cut the forecast for the current financial year to 6.6%, a shade lower than China’s 6.7%, due to the expected impact of demonetisation.   estimates, however, suggest that growth has not been significantly dented due to scrapping of old Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 notes and the economy is expected to grow by 7.1% in 2016-17.
 
 In China’s case, the government has sought to rework the growth model from an export-led strategy to one that involves some tough decisions to strengthen its financial system. In January, IMF’s   had identified a severe slowdown in China as one of the risks to global economic recovery.
 
 Chinese premier   gave himself some difficult and politically sensitive tasks of reducing steel and coal production — which will result in heavy job losses in China and impact global commodity prices.
 
 He ordered steelmakers to reduce steel production by an additional 50 million tonnes in 2017 after local manufacturers were forced to accept a production cut of 65 million last year. The government is also asking coal mines to decrease production by an additional 150 million tonnes this year over and above the production cut of 290 million tonnes effected in 2016.
 
 But he has few alternatives in a situation because overcapacity in certain industries and high inventory of millions of unsold houses are beating down economic growth. The government will also cut high inventories in the property sector, which is weighed down by millions of unsold houses. “As overcapacity is cut, we must provide assistance to laid-off workers,” Li promised.
 
 At the same time he promised reforms by opening up the market wider for foreign investors, and announced a slew of measures to cut government fees and taxes in a bid to push domestic funds into productive uses.
 
 “The developments both in and outside of China require that we are ready to face more complicated and graver situations,” he said, while presenting the government’s work report, which is the Chinese equivalent to budgetary proposals. He pointed out that global growth remained sluggish, while de-globalisation and protectionism were gathering pace.
 
 China has been the target of bitter criticism from European Union over dumping of steel by Chinese producers who allegedly offer cut-throat prices with the help of government subsidy, while throttling steelmakers in Europe. The decision to cut steel capacity is also part of Beijing’s efforts to assuage feelings in the EU, which is its biggest trade partner.
 
 Overcapacity in several industries has also led to a massive quantity of bad and doubtful debts with banks and bond-issuing provincial governments. Given the unresolved debts, Li said his government was alert to the dangers of financial risks and was making strenuous efforts to create a solid “firewall” against financial instability.
 
 “We will apply a full range of monetary policy instruments, maintain basic stability in liquidity, see that market interest rates remain at an appropriate level, and improve the transmission mechanism of monetary policy,” Li said.
 
 China will restructure unprofitable and resource-guzzling “zombie” enterprises with surplus capacities, he said. Ownership reform will be completed in 100 state-owned enterprises by 2017 end. The effort involves encouraging new investments from private industry into state companies, and distancing them from intense control by government departments.
 
 On Sunday, the   ( ) said it would shut or stop construction of coal-fired power plants with capacity of more than 50 million kilowatts.
 
 The government aims to create more than 11 million new urban jobs this year, even as employment pressure grows. “This year’s target for urban job creation is 1 million more than last year, underlining the greater importance we are attaching to employment,” Li said.
 
 
