MYSURU: Day one of the threeweek long immunization drive against measles-rubella saw a few parents rushing to schools here following rumours that some children had fallen ill and were hospitalized after being vaccinated in Mysuru and   districts.

 The panic among some of the parents was similar to that during the initial days of pulse polio campaign a decade ago.
 
 Anxious parents rushed to schools and took their children away fearing they will be vaccinated.
 
 The health authorities soon clarified that no schoolkid was hospitalized after taking the vaccine.
 
 After messages received on social media platforms by people in Mysuru on Tuesday , especially those living in Shanthinagar, Ghosianagar and Kyathmaranahalli, flared rumours that the vaccine will affect child health and that there were different vaccines for different communities, many parents didn't send their kids to school.
 
 Later, when the messages were brought to the notice of district health officer Dr Ba savaraj, he along with Dr Siraj Ahmed, held a meeting with the local elected representatives at Kyathmaranahalli PHC for almost an hour.After the DHO dismissed the rumours and assured the parents they agreed to get their children vaccinated after two days only after examining the health condition of the kids already vaccinated.
 
 Dr Basavaraj along with other health officials visited a few Urdu schools in the area and explained how crucial the vaccine was.
 
 “Apart from a minor confusion, vaccination drive was smooth in most places. There are 7, 95,788 children in the age group of 9 months to 15 years in the district. About 722 staff on the vaccination job will be monitored by 236 staff members. The three-week vaccination campaign will end on February 28,“ said Dr Basavaraj adding that the staff members were trained one and half months ago. “In the first week, the drive will continue in schools. In the next two weeks, it will be reach all hospitals, public health centres and anganawadis,“ he added.
 
 Rumours that a child had died after vaccination led some parents in Chamarajanagar rushing to schools. Many even contacted DHO Dr  .“No untoward incident has been reported in the district,“ he said.
 
 
 
 
 Dr Ashok, the district coordinator for the vaccination drive in   where 55,383 children were administered MR vaccine on the first day, urged parents not to panic and confirmed that the vaccine was safe and WHO-approved.He said auto-disposal syringes were being used. “In India, 90% of children receive the first dose of MMR under the universal immunization programme but only 50% receive the booster dose.About 15% of vaccinated kids don't develop immunity from the first dose, so unless all the children are fully immunized, an outbreak is likely,“ he said.
 
