NEW DELHI: With the series already a lost cause, England picked Kolkata's Eden Gardens as the venue to break their victory drought in India since that dreadful World T20 final as they beat the hosts in a nail-biter by five runs on Sunday. India needed 16 runs from the final over in chase of 322.   blasted the first two balls for a six and a four but   kept his cool to have him out caught for 90 (75b) and eventually hold India to 316/9. 

 India won the series 2-1 and England found a much needed confidence before the three-match T20I series beginning next week.
 
 It was at this venue where   was left holding his head after conceding six fours to hand West Indies WT20 trophy. For two deliveries on Sunday, it seemed the dreadful night had returned to haunt  's team but this time, they managed to end on the winning side and thus recorded their first victory on the tour having already lost a five-match Test series 0-4 last year. 
 
 England posted their third successive 300 plus total after being sent in and yet again India were devoid of a solid start meaning the middle order was exposed much earlier to their liking. It was a dead rubber alright but   must have looked to iron out the only flaw in his team, when it comes to batting, seems to have – a dependable opening pair. Ajinkya Rahane (1) replaced Shikhar Dhawan in the playing XI and at the opener's slot but failed. David Willey let slip a swinging delivery between his defenses to clatter the stumps. India lost an early wicket in yet another big chase. KL Rahul (11) too disappointed when his attempt to play a non-existent pull resulted in a top-edge after he had raised hopes with a six and four.
 
 At 37/2 in six overs, it fell to captain Kohli and the middle order to take control of the chase. With last match centurion Yuvraj Singh in tow, Kohli went about his business passing a nervy phase during which he was beaten and dropped on 35. The relatively livelier and bowling friendly track made it a tad difficult for the Indian pair to get into their grooves quickly with the England bowlers finally finding the discipline that eluded them in the first two matches. 
 
 However, a little deviation in line or length resulted in punishment - Kohli unfurling his trademark whiplashes down the leg side and majestic cover drives to settle nerves. With a couple, he reached his half-century that was peppered with eight fours. But this was a pitch that suited England's bowling and Stokes was the beneficiary when Kohli edged one to wicketkeeper Jos Buttler at 55. 
 
 That brought Yuvraj and MS Dhoni together, the stars of India's recovery in Cuttack. Six overs later, Moeen Ali lured Yuvraj into a flick that flew to Billings at midwicket boundary which ended his promising knock at 45. By 32nd over, England had also knocked down Dhoni and with a cushion of 148 runs to defend, they were the favourites. 
 
 But Jadhav and Pandya gave England another scare as they engineered an excellent recovery to raise a century stand for the sixth wicket, hitting half-centuries apiece. It was two consecutive fours off Woakes from Jadhav that signaled the revival in the 39th over. Pandya, who was wildly swinging his bat for nothing before, managed a top-edge in the next over that flew over third man for a six. Between 39th and 45th over, the duo wiped out 66 runs off the target and the equation became a manageable 47 off 30.
 
 But such has been the template of the series that a straightforward win has been hard to come by. So, Pandya was cleaned up by Ben Stokes for 56 and Ravindra Jadeja dazzled with two fours in a row before departing. Jadhav exploded at the end but it wasn't enough as his tilt at clearing the ropes off the penultimate delivery was cut short by Billings at deep point.
 
 This was after a late surge led by Stokes and ably supported by Woakes powered England to 321/8. Stokes scored a quickfire 57*, his second fifty in three ODIs and Woakes struck a 19-ball 34 to negate India's timely strikes which once threatened England's hopes of a big total. 
 
 With the pitch slightly on the greener side, it was expected to assist the bowlers early on and the India new ball pair of Bhuvneshwar Kumar and Pandya got enough movement to plant doubt in the mind of England openers. With each swing and a miss, a wicket looked an increased possibility but bowlers strayed often to hand timely release as well. Despite   and his new opening partner Sam Billings successfully laid a solid foundation worth 98 runs with the former hitting his third successive half-century of the series.
 
 Roy was the first to get past the ropes, a flick off Bhuvneshwar and a crisp drive past mid-on fielder proving the excellent form he's in. Billings, replacing injured Alex Hales, took 10 deliveries before getting his name on the scoresheet with two brilliant fours either side of the wicket in three balls. Jasprit Bumrah bowled seven dot balls in a row to keep the pressure on but Billings broke the deadlock with a crushing drive off for four to get off the mark. 
 
 England sailed through and Roy completed his eighth fifty parking Jadeja into the stands for a six. But post the drinks break, India crawled back with Billings (35) reverse-sweeping Jadeja straight into the hands of short third man fielder to throw away a strong start. In his next over, Jadeja proved his stranglehold over Roy, beating him in length with the ball crashing onto the stumps - the third time he fell to the left-armer this series. He made 65 and his departure allowed Indian spinners to settle into a rhythm.
 
 Bumarh was a bit unlucky as edges fell short of the slip fielder and flew past the 'keeper for fours. Then India failed to reverse a not out decision against Eoin Morgan, off his bowling. The closest he came to claim a wicket was when Bairstow's upper-cut went straight to the third man but replay showed Bumrah had bowled a front foot no ball. To rub salt on his wounds, Morgan sent the next delivery soaring over the ropes for a six.
 
 Morgan and   steered the innings forward at a steady pace and were not averse from going for expansive shots when they saw a hint of an opportunity. 
 
 Unfortunately for Morgan, who carried his excellent form from Cuttack to Kolkata with two fours and three sixes, he flicked one from Pandya to be caught for 43 – a lucky break for India and Pandya as he broke the partnership that had resulted in 84 runs at run-a-ball. Buttler failed again to be out for 11 but there was no respite for India. Bairstow, who successfully reversed a caught behind decision, went on to complete a strokeful fifty before becoming Pandya's third victim.
 
 Stokes and Woakes then combined for a late flourish, taking advantage of unmanned boundaries for easy fours. Bhuvneshwar bowled an expensive second spell to leak 35 runs in three overs. 26 of those went to Stokes who raced to a 34-ball fifty. Woakes' handy cameo in a 73-run partnership in just 6.4 overs helped England finish with yet another 300 plus total.
 
 
 316/9 (Jadhav 90, Pandya 56, Kohli 55; Stokes 3/63) lost to 
 321/8 (Roy 65, Stokes 57*, Bairstow 56; Pandya 3/49, Jadeja 2/62) by 5 runs
 
