PUNE: The Sahakarnagar police on Tuesday arrested a 24-year-old security guard for robbing a 16-year-old student of Rs 5,000 while he had gone for a stroll on   hill with his friend.

 The suspect Ajinkya Mene, a resident of  , posed as a policeman and threatened the young boy and girl that he would inform their parents before robbing them. 
 
 Despite the threat, the student informed his parents about the robbery and contacted the police immediately. When the police team visited the spot as part of their investigation, Mene was found doing his duty on the hillock. 
 
 “We took Mene into custody. He was produced before the court and remanded in judicial custody. He had been working as a private security guard on the hillock for the past few years,” said Vinayak Koli, assistant inspector of the Sahakarnagar police. The police are yet to find out who employed Mene as he was sent to judicial custody immediately after the arrest.
 
 Koli said the complainant is a first-year college student. His friend is also from the same college. On Sunday, around 7.30pm, they had gone to Taljai hill. “They were sitting near the deserted bungalow on the hillock and were clicking photos when the suspect Mene arrived at the spot,” he said.
 
 Mene told the youngsters that he was a policeman and started asking them what they were doing on the hill at night. “The suspect told them that the area where they were sitting comes under a ‘Red Zone’ and they were not supposed to sit there. Mene demanded Rs 5,000 and threatened the two that he would tell their parents about them,” Koli added.
 
 According to the officer, the student tried to bargain with Mene while the girl called a fellow student to inform him about the threat. The friend immediately rushed to the hillock, said Koli.
 
 The student told Mene that he would drop the girl to her hostel and bring cash. “The suspect agreed but he told the student that his friend will remain with him till he returned with the cash,” the officer added. However, when the student returned to the hillock, he did not find his friend or Mene at the spot.
 
 
  
 
 Around 11pm, the student received a call from his friend asking him to rush to the hill with the money. “After reaching the spot, the student was shocked to notice his girlfriend there,” Koli said. Mene had allegedly forced the friend to call her back on the hill thinking they had fooled him. “Eventually, the student gave Mene the cash and they returned to their respective places,” Koli added.
 
 
 
 
 The youngsters did not share details about the incident with anybody. “However, while they were discussing the incident over the phone, the parents of one of the students overheard them and advised them to lodge a complaint,” Koli said. 
 
 While inspecting the spot, the police team found Mene in the vicinity and immediately arrested him. The police are yet to recover the cash from Mene.
 
 
