THANE: The urban sprawl of Mumbra and Diva could possibly derail the annual revenue targets set by the property   department as home owners in this part of the city seem to have turned a deaf ear to the numerous sops and appeals by the   Municipal Corporation ( ). 

 The civic body is facing a huge backlog of   taxes from this part of the city with nearly 73 per cent or around Rs 79 crore revenue yet to be recovered of the desired target of Rs 108 crore. The TMC has just 10 more days to recover the dues before the fiscal ends keeping officials worried if it could impact their plans for registering a healthy recovery across the other administrative wards.
 
 TMC commissione Sanjeev Jaiswal took a revision of revenue generation departments recently and found the   department to be lagging in income generation. The TMC earned Rs 321.65 crore until now that is nearly 66 per cent of the total Rs 485 crore revised tentative target for the department.
 
 In stark contrast, developed areas with major middle-class settlements including Vartak Nagar, Lokmanya Nagar and Naupada have sustained the civic coffers with regular tax payments. Among these, the Vartak Nagar administrative wards seem to have shored in around 94 per cent or nearly Rs 49.2 crore of its targets while the rest have also matched with regular payments of their respective taxes.
 
 Experts and activists have expressed surprise at the low earnings from the Mumbra and Diva belts and attributed the same to the neglect shown by the civic body towards their development. The suburbs that have noted a sudden and haphazard growth over the last few years apparently still face a scarcity of basic amenities reportedly making residents less inclined to pay their taxes.
 
 The city has well developed civic facilities with adequate amenities like theatres, gardens, malls while the distant suburbs still yearn for these facilities. The lack of amenities like proper water supply, market places, roads, drainage and hordes of illegal structures is ailing these suburbs like Diva and Mumbra for the last few years, said experts. The TMC, however, has plans to start the development at Diva. 
 
 “The suburbs of Mumbra and Diva have got nothing in terms of infrastructure. Residents face immense pressure due to scarcity of water even today despite the reservoirs having adequate water. Why is the administration mum over this,” questioned Adesh Bhagat, civic activist from Diva.
 
 Civic officials said the administration has made no discrimination between the suburbs and the lake city till now. Speaking about the poor recovery from the suburbs, officials admitted the recovery was less here but said they will be intensifying their drives over the next week to shore up the balance amount.
 
 
