Manali: The word ‘tourism’ has started to echo in Janjehli valley in Mandi district with residents of many villages of this beautiful but least seen vale promoting “Destination Janjehli” campaign to promote it on global tourism map. They hope that this would bring employment opportunities for them.

 Unlike other parts of Himachal, Janjehli, 65 km from Mandi, has almost no tourist movement. Lush green valleys and peaks covered with snow have potential to draw tourists. The villagers, with help of local administration, have now initiated a programme to convert the entire sub-division into a tourist hub. A large number of homestays, travel agents and tourism-based associations are being registered and local youth are being given training in related activities.
 
 Janjehli SDM Ashwani Kumar said more and more residents were joining the campaign. “People here don’t have much employment options. Some villagers grow fruits but people have very less agriculture land. The region has good tourism potential and it can help earn livelihood for many families. These days, we are busy giving a final shape to the tourism project, which shall be submitted before the government,” he said. 
 
 Ashwani believes that public cooperation will help improve the local infrastructure. “We are starting with installing symmetrical signages and hoardings everywhere in Janjehli. Locals are ready for this. We shall have all signages made with wooden carvings. We shall organize Janjehli tourism festival this summer so that the entire nation gets to know about this hidden valley. We shall invite travel agents and organize kite festival, mountain bike event, cultural events, fashion shows and many other events.”
 
 The vast area has nearly 15 guesthouses and homestays, which seem insufficient. “We are motivating villagers to register their houses as homestays. Currently, we have five more applications. The region does not have any travel agency. A few youths are showing interest in learning and opening travel agencies here. We are registering various associations to promote only eco-friendly tourism,” Ashwani added.
 
 Janjehli has many beautiful slopes and trekking routes. Adventure tourism in the valley is also being promoted by administration with help of locals. These days skiing courses are being undertaken on the slopes near the Shikari Devi temple. At an altitude of 11,000ft, it is a famous pilgrimage and is also the only place in Himachal from where all 10 districts can be seen, except for Chamba and Lahaul-Spiti.
 
 
