CHENNAI: Ask any Bengali about the `pujo gondho' (smell of puja) and one will see an instantaneous twinkle of happiness in his or her eyes. In Chennai, the lingering smell of   phool (night jasmine) and the arrival of the goddess seem to have equally mesmerised the Tamil community.

 As various Bengali associations gear up of the four-day carnival, Tamils in the city too are getting ready for a slice of the fest.
 
 Sarayan Ganesan, 50, a visitor to the SMCA Durga puja pandal for the past 14 years, says she remains spellbound by the evening aarti and the beauty of the Bengali women in their red-bordered saris. “For people like us who haven't visited Kolkata during the pujo, this is a great replica. And we enjoy it to our heart's content, “ she says.
 
 The  , which will celebrate its 84th year of puja, extends the celebrations to the local community. 
 
 According to Moloy Roy, the secretary, the celebration here is home ly and inclusive. “We have observed that with years, more Tamils have become part of this revelry ,“ he says. He adds that they are also crazy about rasgulla, luchi (puri) and aloor dum (a spicy potato gravy). “They throng these stalls and the food gets over in no time, “ he says.
 
 It is not only the food that has won over the Tamil community; the rituals keep them as much in awe. “Apart from enjoying the khichudi bhog, we have many Tamils who come forward to help us in or ganising the pujo, “ says  , an executive member of South Madras Cultural Association (SMCA), Besant Nagar.
 
 Like the other associations, Dakshini society , Anna Nagar, too has seen a rise in the participation of Tamils over the last 23 years.“Our USP is the diversity in our menu and the cultural programme we organise. It has drawn the praise of our Tamil friends,“ says a proud Vikram Pal Chaudhary , 35, the vice-president of the society .
 
 Bengalis love their meat and fish, and their consumption during pujo only goes up. One cannot imagine the lunch of Navami and   without a sumptuous dish of fish or mutton.
 
 “Our inclusion of meat in the pujo feast does leave some of our Tamil friends puzzled, “ smiles Raja Mukherjee, 44, the founding member of  , which will celebrate its 4th Durga pujo this year. “But we have a large number of Tamil participants sharing their enthusiasm and the spirit for the festival, “ he adds.
 
