Panaji: With the Indian Ocean warming, the   has seen severe depletion of oxygen rich  , sparking concern among scientists and researchers that fish breeding cycles could get affected.

 Scientists of National Institute of Oceanography ( ) and National Centre for Antarctic and Ocean Research ( ) have pointed out that the Arabian Sea has the world’s thickest oxygen minimum zone (OMZ) depthwise, which is highly vulnerable to changes in the Indian monsoon wind.
 
 OMZ refers to the stretch of seawater where oxygen levels are at the lowest. This zone occurs at depths of about 200m to 1,000m, depending on local circumstances.
 
 According to scientists, as the top layer of water in the ocean heats up due to global warming, cooler water brought by under currents from the polar region is prevented from rising.
 
 “You have to realize that the water at the lower depths is coming from Antarctica. This cold water, which is rich in nutrients, is oxygenated water. If this is suppressed at the depths, and not circulated, then it results is no ventilation in the upper layers of the ocean, which is when fish mortality happens due to lack of oxygen,” said director of NCAOR, M Ravichandran.
 
 Cold water can hold more dissolved oxygen than warm water, and fresh water can hold more dissolved oxygen than salt water. So the warmer and saltier the water, the less dissolved oxygen it contains.
 
 The Arabian Sea, encompasses the northwestern sector of the Indian Ocean and covers a total area of around 3,862,000 sq km.
 
 “The OMZ of the Arabian Sea is the thickest of the three oceanic OMZ. The upper few hundred meters of this zone are nearly depleted of oxygen, but non-sulfidic, and still support animal life, possibly as a result of periodic infusion of oxygen,” says a study on OMZ of the Arabian Sea by K Banse, S W A Naqvi, P V Narvekar, J R Postel, and D A Jayakumar.
 
 Scientists from NIO, NCAOR and other institutes are studying ocean warming and the oxygen content in the water to understand if the phenomenon is cyclical and natural or a recent occurrence due to climate change.
 
 “We have an ocean drilling programme where we drill up to two kilometres into the ocean floor to see what the scenario was in the past millions of years and to see how it has changed now,” Ravichandran said.
 
 
