A Hyderabad court on Tuesday cancelled the anticipatory bail of Bollywood producer Karim   and directed him to surrender before the   police before March 22 in the rape case slapped on him by a 25-year-old Delhi-based woman.

 A source revealed to Mirror that   Commissionerate officials are considering serving a notice on Morani in a day or two asking him to surrender before them. However, he still has the chance to approach the High Court seeking anticipatory bail or some other relief.
 
 Rachakonda Police Commissioner   told Mirror, "The anticipatory bail has been cancelled and Morani should surrender before us by March 22. We are waiting for the order copy to reach us before we decide our future course." 
 
 Morani's spokesperson had already refuted the victim's charge terming it as "false and bogus".
 
 The woman, an MBA graduate with interest in films, lodged a complaint with Rachakonda Police Commissioner in the third week of January alleging that Morani had first drugged her and then violated her sexually. He later continued to exploit her by threatening to post her nude photos online if she complained to the police. The complainant said she had met Morani at the wedding of his relative, who was her friend, in December 2014. The trouble began for her in 2015 when he allegedly called her for a party in Mumbai and continued till 2016, for over one-and-a-half years.
 
 Based on her complaint, the Hayathnagar police registered a case against Morani under Indian Penal Code (IPC) Sections 376 (rape), 342 (wrongful confinement), 506 (criminal intimidation), 493 (cohabitation caused by a man deceitfully inducing a belief of lawful marriage), 417 (cheating) and Section 354C of the Criminal Law Amendment Act (popularly known as Nirbhaya Act).
 
 Even as the police were conducting preliminary enquiry, Morani secured anticipatory bail from a local court on January 30. The court while granting him the anticipatory bail, directed, "In the event of the arrest of the petitioner (Morani), he shall be released on bail on his executing personal bond of Rs 50,000 with two sureties. The petitioner shall cooperate with the investigating agency and be present before the court whenever required for further investigation."
 
 The investigators who claim to have successfully gathered evidence against Morani, had filed a petition before the   district Fourth Additional District Court seeking cancellation of the anticipatory bail, as they had "concrete evidence" against him.
 
 The victim produced the WhatsApp chat, text messages and emails between Morani and her as evidence in support of her complaint. The police verified the call detail record (CDR) and confirmed that Morani was at a famous film studio on the outskirts of Hyderabad during the period when the girl said he had summoned her to be with him.
 
