Reis Magos: Newly-elected sarpanch of Reis Magos panchayat Shailendra Parulekar has said that his first priority will be to undertake the development of a market complex for the local fishing community. The market complex in the village is in a pathetic condition. The structure is weak and on the verge of collapse. It was also noticed that fish, vegetable and fruit vendors were all selling their wares in a precarious condition under one roof which is also on the verge of collapse. TOI observed that there is a serious parking problem with not much space available for the locals who visit the market to park their vehicles. Parulekar told TOI that he had asked the panchayat members for development plans they plan to undertake in their wards. “We have submitted our development plans to our local MLA Jayesh Salgaonkar and our first priority will be to undertake the development of the market complex,” said Parulekar. “We have acquired a place which is owned by the village comunidade for setting up of the market complex and the processing of the papers is on,” he said. “Right now, our first priority is to only develop the market complex as the existing market is very congested and there is not much space. As a result, the fisherwomen have to sell their fish on the road thus creating a traffic problem,” said Parulekar. Speaking on the issue of the blatant hill cutting undertaken for the purpose of construction of mega projects, the newly-elected sarpanch said that the owners had taken technical permissions. “The panchayat has received a number of complaints from local residents and we will conduct site inspections,” he said. On his development plans, Parulekar said that his second priority will be to develop a playground on the land belonging to the panchayat located near the Shri Krishna temple. “Chief minister Manohar Parrikar told us to utilize funds from the sports authority of Goa (SAG). We will develop the ground using funds from the SAG,” he said, adding that people should give him time to undertake his plans with the support of the local MLA.