MUMBAI: The Pakistan Cricket Board ( ), which has sought damages and compensation to the tune of Rs 447 crore from the Board of Control for Cricket in India ( ) for not honouring the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) to play six bilateral series between 2014 and 2023, has been in several discussions with the game's governing body for 'special funding' to sustain itself financially.

 This comes to light even as India's recent struggle to seek its share of revenue from the   (ICC) hasn't been completely muted yet. Pak's MoU for bilateral series was signed in 2014, the same year when the ICC's revenue model was revamped and India's revenue compensation hiked as part of the 'Big Three' model. TOI is in possession of the paper presented at the   that discusses the details of the "special funding".
 
 Giles Clarke, the president of the England and Wales Cricket Board ( ) presented the paper on his visit to Pakistan some time back "which provided an overview of the significant security investment, reforms and planning that has been ongoing in the hope of international cricket returning to Pakistan."
 
 The PCB reiterated that the losses suffered by them as a result of both playing international cricket in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and cancelation of bilateral matches with India were significant.
 
 The paper says: "The PCB had previously requested a special fund from ICC due to the extra expenditure it has had and will continue to incur while the gradual process of returning cricket to Pakistan was ongoing. (Shaharyar) Khan wished to place on record that the PCB was trying to help itself but that it needed the encouragement of the ICC in both playing terms and financially to be able to sustain the losses suffered over the years".
 
 The paper adds that while "Clarke noted there was a long way to go before considering the return of international cricket to Pakistan; however, it was his view that supporting the improvement of the security environment was the best way to achieve this objective."
 
 To that, "Khan noted his appreciation for the report and agreed that the first and most important step for Pakistan is the   final in Lahore to which he invited all directors to attend with security advisors. He hoped Pakistan would be able to thereafter host other events for teams (including Associate Members, Under 19's, women's and emerging players) and ICC technical meetings".
 
 The question that hasn't been raised yet at the ICC's meetings is that if the PCB has taken a hit because of no cricket with India, so has the Indian cricket board and its home broadcaster. "There can't be an apples and oranges solution to what we clearly understand is not a bilateral issue. It's a call that only the governments can take," a source in the know of things said. 
 
