KOLKATA: A week before the Centre convenes a meeting of chief ministers of all 10 naxal-affected states on May 8, chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday took to social media to highlight the state's success in anti-Maoist operations which has resulted in a whopping 328 Left Wing Extremeists shunning arms -- 111, this year alone. The statistics reeled out by the chief minister appears to be a gentle nudge to the Centre which appears grapppling with its anti-naxal operations specially in Chattisgarh's Maoist hotbed. 

 The chief minister said, "Our Government issued notification for the surrender and rehabilitation of Naxalites with incentives, providing gainful employment and entrepreneurial opportunities to surrendered Naxalites, so that they become a part of mainstream. So far, in West Bengal 328 Left Wing Extremists have surrendered. This includes 111   in 2017 (till date). 205 surrenderees have already been enrolled as Special Home Guards. Now, 11 more surrenderees are being enrolled as Special Home Guards and another 9 cases are in process. Thus, total of 225 surrenderees will be enrolled for employment till date. Apart from employment, surrendering Maoists get financial incentives as well as assistance for housing, medical and child education, as per norms set up by the government." According to the state sources, the high-on-rhetoric stance by the Centre needs a complete overhaul if it needs to deal with the situation affectively.
 
 The chief minister's statement coincided with the Centre mulling to develop a unified command with the help of state police. In a recent letter the Centre has asked the state home department to send a feasibility report by the end of this month. Sources indicated the Centre is not only mulling to create a pool of officers who will share intelligence and if neccesary, manpower, to deal with emerging situations. The letter hints at convergence and uni-dimentional approach across states to deal with the menace. Bengal which has reported no civilian death due to Left Wing Extremism since 2011 remains a key to the proposed stucture. 
 
 Though there is nearly 100 battalion (100000 personnel) of Central forces including Cobra, SSB and Naga Company in the five worst hit states like Chhattishgarh, Jharkhand, Bihar, Odhisha and West Bengal but the Sukma attack laid bare that the ultras outnumbered the personnel.
 
 To make up the shortfall of central forces the union ministry of home affairs decided to create a pool from the state police that will work in close coordination not only with the central forces but also with their counterparts in other states. Primarily it will try and implement the design in five states four of which are worst affected and if successful it will be replicated in other maoist hit areas. Last month DGP, West Bengal Surajit Kar Purkayastha had a meeting with the DGPs of other maoist affected states and the issue of a ‘unified command’ was likely discussed there.
 
 According to a state home department official the central government will arrange for their training. “Apart from the physical training they will be given lessons in deciphering code language and decoding telephonic conversation. In many cases in recent times the joint forces failed to understand the telephonic conversation or decipher letters because the communication is made in local language. The central government wants local police to become part of the operation and this will give more effectiveness to the anti-maoist operation”.
 
 Though chief minister Mamata Banerjee is yet to take a call on this issue but state government officials fear that the central government might take this opportunity to drain out central forces from West Bengal. “Right now we have only six battalion of forces but the centre has been putting pressure to withdraw the forces as there has been no incident of maoist violence in the last three years. They might take this opportunity and shift the central forces to some other state,” a senior state home department official said.
 
