CHENNAI: Frowning upon schoolchildren being compelled to attend the centenary celebrations of former chief minister  , being organised by the   government across the state, the Madras high court on Wednesday barred any mobilisation of children for such events.

 A division bench of Justices S Vaidyanathan and R Subramanian passed the interim order on a plea moved by A   of Change India seeking a ban on mobilising school students for public meetings. Soon after the court passed the interim order, the state government, through the deputy secretary of the school education department, filed a counter affidavit claiming that it was actually organising motivational training programmes for schoolchildren to help them handle the pressure and anxiety associated with studies at present.
 
 "The September 30 programme is purely for the benefit upliftment of schoolchildren," P Sekar, deputy secretary of school education department, said in the affidavit. In the affidavit, deputy secretary of school education department P Sekar said, "The September 30 programme is only a measure involving the Live Life education foundation to motivate schoolchildren to attain good standards which is purely for the benefit upliftment of government school children.This session is organised in the morning whereas the government function as part of the MGR centenary celebration is scheduled in the evening."
 
 "Moreover, the programme is not compulsory and school students participate voluntarily . Hence it is just and necessary to vacate the interim order," he added.
 
 The government also sought an urgent special sitting by the bench on Thursday as the high court was set to be closed for the navaratri holidays. Considering the urgency , the bench agreed to take up the plea for hearing at 10.30am on Thursday .
 
 Earlier, the petitioner wanted the court to direct the government to prepare draft guidelines to be followed by the school education department, police and schools whenever children are made to participate in public functions, rallies and campaigns at venues outside their institutions.
 
 To prove his case, Narayanan cited the news report `Schools force students to attend MGR function, blame govt', which was published in TOI on August 30. The report had said that, on the government's instructions, students of many government and private schools in Kancheepuram district were forced to attend an MGR centenary event at VGP grounds in  .
 
 "As per the news report, many parents and teachers expressed displeasure at the misuse of schoolchildren by the school education department," he said.
 
 Several representations made by his organisation to the government were only met with indifference and belligerence, he added. Pointing out that a grand public meeting was being planned in   on September 30, the petitioner said there was every likelihood that thousands of innocent schoolchildren would be put to a lot of inconvenience and harm by bringing them to the venue, merely to satisfy the ego of the organisers.
 
