MUMBAI: Two weeks after a te en was thrown out of a moving train for resis ting a robber in Virar, an uni dentified man snatched two cellphones from a woman travelling in the ladies compartment and jumped out of the moving train at Nalasopara on Saturday night.

 Aarti Salian (32), a resident of Vasai, was returning from work in   on September 23. As she could not alight at   she travelled up to Nalasopara and got onto platform 2 to board another train to Vasai. Salian boarded the first-class ladies compartment of the Churchgate-bound fast train at 9.55pm.There were two other women in the compartment. Salian sat with her back facing the door.Just when the train started, an unidentified man entered the compartment, snatched her two cellphones and jumped out of the moving train.
 
 Salian, who had not seen the man, except that he was in his 20s and dressed in a black T-shirt, too jumped out of the moving train in a bid to catch him. While the thief jumped onto the east side of the tracks and disappeared in the darkness, Salian landed on the platform with minor bruises to her right elbow.
 
 She filed a complaint with the   (GRP) on Monday . Salian told TOI that she got into the compartment and took out the phones to call up home. “Before I could realize anything, this man snatched both my phones and jumped out.As the train was slow I too jumped out. While he fled I fell on the platform,“ said Salian, who works for a beauty parlour. She took the next train and reached home. Police filed a case of theft (IPC 379) and criminal force (IPC 356) against the suspect. Police said they examined the closed circuit television (CCTVs installed on the platform.
 
 Salian said she got into the train at Nalasopara on seeing two other women in the compartment. She said she did not find any police on the platform. Salian said as women travel from work late cops should be posted inside coaches and on platforms from 8 pm onwards. The ladies coaches are manned by railway police and home guards between 10pm to 6am.
 
 Meanwhile, police have made no breakthrough in the Virar case. While Komal Chavan (19) is recuperating after undergoing shoulder surgery , the accused who was seen on CCTV remains at large. Chavan was thrown out of the train at around 9.55pm, in Virar, after she refused to give the accused money .
 
