NASHIK:   will in a way come of age this Sunday as the annual event is set to see a fit and agile 104-year-old man from Malegaon matching the footsteps of hundreds of young fitness freaks.

 Dagdu Bhamre is gearing up for his maiden participation in this year’s Mumbai Marathon and will run the run 5-km Dream Run along with his 63-year-old son-in-law, Subhash Amrutkar (Wani).
 
 Bhamre, who used to work as a ‘munim’ (accountant) with a local businessman, still leads a healthy lifestyle and his eating habits have kept him fit. It was his son-in-law, a Mumbai resident, who inspired him to take part in the event.
 
 The grand old man from Malegaon celebrated his 103rd birthday on January 8 this year. It was during the birthday celebrations at Vikroli in Mumbai when Amrutkar inspired him to take part in the Mumbai Marathon.
 
 “He visits Mumbai every January 8 and we celebrate his birthday in a grand way. Seeing his fitness, I just asked him if he could run 4-5 km. His instant response a confident ‘yes’. I immediately asked him why doesn’t he take part in this Mumbai Marathon, which is a very popular event,” Amrutkar told TOI.
 
 Amrutkar said though Bhamre does not have much idea about marathon, he is all excited to take part in the event. “We showed him some photographs of the previous editions of the event. He said he would be able to do it with ease. We got ourselves registered through Prabhat Mitra Mandal Senior Citizens’ Club, of which we both are members,” he said.
 
 Bhamre, who has studied till Class VII, worked as a “munim” till the age of 80 for   — an agent of Ravalgaon sugar factory. Even at this age, he starts his day quite early in the morning.
 
 “I go out for a long-distance walk every day at 6am. After having bath and breakfast, I visit all temples in and around on foot, which again makes up for 1-1.5 km. After lunch, I again go out for a short walk. The day ends with snacks in the evening followed by light dinner at 8pm. I again go out for a walk. Throughout the day, I walk for around 4-5km,” said Bhamre.
 
 He added: “My bones are strong and I walk a lot everyday. I am still as active as a youth. Even when I am at home, I keep myself busy doing something or other. And while walking, I move my hands continuously for exercises”.
 
 A vegetarian, Bhamre has full-course meals every day. He has no teeth, but his gums are strong enough to eat practically everything. He has reading glasses that he uses for reading newspapers and religious texts. But even at this age, he has no other eyesight problem.
 
 Three of his sons are settled in Nashik and one each stays in Malegaon, Dhule and Ulhasnagar. He travels all the way to these places on his own to meet them. “As a child, I used to play kho kho and all other traditional outdoor games such as ‘aatya paatya’. We used to walk and exercise a lot,” said the man who refused to take up a teaching job after passing his seventh standard and took up the job of a munim as it fetched more money. 
 
 “I am excited about the marathon. I am used to a lot of walking and do not use any walking stick. The mind has to be healthy and strong and under any circumstances, one has to be joyful,” said Bhamre. 
 
 Of late, the city has been witness to several marathons. In September., last year, the   was held for the first time across the scenic Trimbakeshwar area. Soon after, the Striders Nashik City Run was organised, followed by Maratha Vidya Prasarak Marathon. 
 
 In the third week of January, the pioneer of marathons in the city, the Nashik Run was organised for all individuals to promote good health and discipline. Marathons like Zendurance Nashik Spirit Run in February, Indian Medical Association Marathon, Nashik 21k Integrity Excellence Progress Marathon and other runs by the Rotary club are held time and again in the city.
 
