NAGPUR: Eight women have taken up challenge by contesting against all men in the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) elections slated on February 21. Though women candidates and party leaders cite women empowerment behind choosing female over male in these seats, actually parties have adjusted them to balance caste votes.

 Of total 151 seats, 76 are reserved for women and 75 for men from which women can also contest.   has fielded four women candidates — Parineeta Fuke, Swati Akhatkar, Sadhana Barde and Vandana Bhagat in men seats. Thus, the saffron party has 80 women candidates and 71 men candidates in fray.
 
 Congress has pitched three women candidates — Saraswati Salame, Sayyada Begum Nizamuddin Ansari and   against men. Thus, the secular party has fielded 79 female and 72 male.
 
 NCP has given chance to one women candidate —   from men seat. Thus, the party has 77 women and 74 male in fray.
 
 Interestingly, two of eight women — Parineeta and Sujata are contesting from ward no. 13 but in different seats. Parineeta is contesting from OBC while Sujata from SC seat. Parineeta is wife of BJP MLC   and Sujata is spouse of NCP MLC Prakash Gajbhiye.
 
 Wards represented by Fuke and Gajbhiye are merged into ward no. 13 so the two big leaders from West Nagpur decided to regain the seats by contesting their spouses. BJP is said to be very weak in this ward and got strength with Fuke roping in his wife. Similar is the case with NCP.
 
 Obviously, Fuke and Gajbhiye are the virtual candidates.
 
 Parineeta told TOI that she decided to contest only to continue good work done by her husband Fuke. “My husband got elected two times as independent and worked for people’s cause. Wards represented by him have developed a lot. People from these areas demanded me to contest as replacement of him so am in fray,” she said.
 
 Naresh, husband of Sadhana Barde, got ticket from BJP to contest but roped in his wife. “Party gave ticket to my wife due to women reservation in 2012 elections. She has taken too much interest in serving for people and done a commendable job. Therefore, I decided to continue her,” he said.
 
 Congress city president Vikas Thakre said motive behind giving three more seats to women than men was basically empowering the fairer sex. “Congress always uplifted women. Our two women candidates — Salame and Dhurve are strong among ST. People from the areas have wished the two to contest so the decision was taken,” he said.
 
 
