 
 believes in lowering the tax burden to get people to spend and save more. In a chat with 
 , he discusses key aspects of his fourth  . Excerpts:

 
 
 When the non-compliant evade taxes, the burden of taxes has to be borne by the compliant. With 
  , many non-compliant will become compliant. The more vulnerable among the compliant need help. I've identified two sections. One is the MSME, where there's an incentive for those with turnover of up to Rs 50 crore. Second is the small taxpayer.   has added to the cost of living. Many of them are either small working-class people or in service. I thought they should pay 5% instead of 10%. So, with a little investment, there's little or negligible tax that those below Rs 5 lakh have to pay. The corresponding advantage for the higher tax brackets will be Rs 12,500. I'm attracting non-filers to become filers. Across the board, every personal I-T payer gets relief, he has more money to spend.
 
 
 
 That's my object - it's a significant measure in that direction.
 
 
 
 These are not salaried people. They are high-earning professionals. Those above Rs 1 crore also pay a surcharge. A lower surcharge for this category is called for. It's a revenue-generating measure and good equity that the wealthier pay more in terms of percentage than the less wealthy.
 
 
 
 It was huge. A lot of it got into the banking system. Further transactions will hopefully not be in cash. Therefore, direct and indirect taxes will go up. The increase in personal I-T this year is partly attributable to this. The 18 lakh people with high deposits, who've been detected by  , will have to make good on their tax dues. This is only the first phase (of scrutiny).
 
 
 
 
 In this government, efficiency and expenditure co-exist. The PM is a hard taskmaster. In two years, we've spent more than what he budgeted.
 
 
 
 We'll do it during the year. As it is, 90% of clearances are on the automatic route. Some alternative mechanism can be in place. In many cases, it can be the parent ministry that deals with a particular investment. Today you have to go through two ministries and both follow the same set of considerations.
 
 
 
 
 We have put a system in place and the railways really has to run on a pattern indicated in the Budget.
 
