INDORE: A 23-year-old upcoming model of the city died under mysterious circumstances after spending the night with her boyfriend and some other friends at his home in Krishna Paradise building in Rau on Thursday.

 The matter came to fore on Friday when her parents were informed about the death and they insisted on a post-mortem examination. The preliminary autopsy report concluded from injuries marks and internal damage that she was murdered.
 
 Anamika Dubey, resident of Scheme number 114, Niranjanpur, was rushed to the hospital where she died during treatment in the afternoon.
 
 Anamika had been staying with her boyfriend Dheeraj Sharma, resident of Gwalior at his rented flat in Rau for the past two days. Dheeraj later told the police that he was in a relationship with Anamika since past two years.
 
 He claimed that on Thursday morning, she started vomiting following which he went to a physician and asked him to write down some tablets for his friend while explaining her condition. The doctor, however, asked him to bring the patient.
 
 As soon as Dheeraj reached home, Anamika’s condition deteriorated further. He took her to Choithram hospital with the help of his friends where she was declared brought dead by the doctors. 
 
 Dheeraj informed Anamika’s parents about the matter who reached the hospital immediately.
 
 They were shocked by the incident and informed police about the matter after which the body was sent for post mortem examination.
 
 The short post mortem reports have revealed that the girl received internal injuries on her private parts and she had also been thrashed.
 
 It also came to fore that Anamika’s father had recently undergone open heart bypass surgery a week ago. She had been working at a BPO where she met Dheeraj two years ago.
 
 Anamika’s friends claimed on condition of anonymity that her family was conservative and it is not possible that she must have spent the night at her friend’s place.
 
 “We are investigating the matter and the family members and friends of the girl are being interrogated. Her body was also handed over to the family after post mortem examination,” said Rakesh Singh, ASP.
 
