Amrut   rose from humble beginnings to become Goa’s leading constitutional expert and an outspoken social activist. 

 He developed distinct left leanings very early on, probably following his days at Pune where he had the opportunity of engaging in debates with the intelligentsia of the time.
 
 As a youth from the same town, and later a close friend and ally, I was impressed with his achievements and legal brilliance (he was the first person from Bicholim to secure the Master of Law degree). What always pained me was that people failed to recognise his brilliance and grit, possible because of his humble origins.
 
 In 1977, his career took a political turn, literally, with the MGP choosing him as their Panaji candidate for the Lok Sabha elections. He won with a big margin. However, he soon ruffled feather with his radical socialism through which he also espoused the cause of the bahujan samaj. When he spoke out against the mocasso system followed in Satari in the Lok Sabha, a displeased top MGP leader summoned him back to Goa and dealt with him in a harsh manner. After that Kansar faced difficult times, but no matter what, he stood by his principles.
 
 At the end of his term, in 1980, after he returned to Goa, he began speaking on public platforms about mining pollution in Bicholim. There were consequences to face, and he bore them silently.
 
  The reality of the political landscape with all its hypocritical talks of uplifting the bhaujan samaj, saddened him. For a man like him, who never forgot his humble background, such dichotomy was disturbing. What was a bigger blow was that the bahujan samaj itself did not recognise his contributions.
 
 Through all this he continued with his law practice and publishing his fortnightly magazine, Sarita at his own press. And despite all the rancour that came his way he did not stop raising issues, frequently participating in programmes of the Rashtra Seva Dal. Even after he became a high court lawyer he wanted to restructure his political career. He had a toehold in the Congress, but old animosities proved obstacles. 
 
 In our interactions, he often rallied against the deep-rooted caste system which he felt worked against him. Though he was hailed as a constitutional expert, he felt that when it came to appointing him as advocate general, they turned their back on him. Ironically, today a politician has referred to him as the godfather of the bahujan samaj.
 
 He was an expert in Portuguese laws, common civil code, temple laws, and mundkarial and tenancy laws. He fought two battles for the people in Poriem and Madkai and won it for them. The tragic fact of our society is that a person of humble origins has to struggle to establish himself. It is unfortunate that this brilliant lawyer did not get his due. 
 
 (As told to Paul Fernandes)
 
 
