AHMEDABAD: It prima facie appeared to be a case of suicide but was found by   of Gandhinagar district to be a gruesome honour killing. Manorji Thakore, 26, a resident of Nikol and a horse trainer at Ranjipur village in Gandhinagar, was found hanging from a tree in the early hours of May 3. 

 Thakore’s postmortem pointed to antemortem head injuries and strangulation. Adalaj police arrested six persons, including the father of the girl Thakore had been in love with for about four months.
 
 According to police sources, among those arrested are the girl’s father Sangramji Thakore; his brother, Shaileshji Thakore; Kalaji Thakore; Harshadji Thakore; Ravji Thakore and Kushalji Thakore. “The interrogation of the accused is under way to find if any other accused were involved,” said a senior police official.
 
 Gandhinagar superintendent of police, Virendrasingh Yadav, said Thakore, a married man and father of two sons — a five-year-old and a 10-month-old — was a horse trainer.
 
 “Thakore trained horses at Ranjipura village in Gandhinagar district. There he met Tejal, alias Mittal, the daughter of Sangramji Thakore and fell in love with her,” added Yadav. Mittal’s family on finding out about the affair with a married man, were annoyed and wanted her to break off the relationship with Thakore. “They also fixed her marriage with another person. The wedding was to take place on May 8,” Yadav added.
 
 Investigators said that Mittal’s father apprehended that if Thakore learned of their plans to have Mittal marry another man, he would disrupt the wedding.
 
 “Hence, Sangramji and his brother Shaileshji and the other accused hatched a conspiracy to kill Thakore. On the night of May 2, they called Thakore to Ranjipur. The accused first beat him with sticks and they strangled him to death. To make it appear like suicide, they hung the body by the neck from a tree. The next morning, they pretended to discover the body and also brought it down from the tree,” added an investigator.
 
 Inspector of Adalaj police station, K K Pandya, said had they first registered a case of accidental death and sent the body for an autopsy to  .
 
 “The postmortem revealed that Thakore had head injuries and had been strangled to death before his body was hung from the tree. Further investigation revealed Thakore’s affair with Mittal, which frowned on by her family. Vigorous questioning broke the accused and they confessed to the crime,” added a senior police official.
 
 
 
 
 Meanwhile, Thakore’s brother and the complainant,  , said his brother used a smartphone on which he had a social media account while the phone found at the scene of the crime was a simple one. “Thakore had told his wife Kinjal that he has all the proof. Manorji had told us that Mittal had sent him a recording, urging his wife to permit their marriage and she was ready to do anything. The recording is gone along with the phone,” said Shambhuji.
 
