LUCKNOW: In UP, where two phases of elections are over, there’s an elephant in the room that nobody is talking about.

 It’s the staggering rate of joblessness and underemployment, especially among the youth. The share of the working age population without jobs in UP is 7.4%, says a Labour Bureau report released last year. 
 
 This works out to 1.12 crore people looking for jobs, if extended to this year. The all India rate was estimated at 2.5%. A couple of recent incidents brought out this grim situation. In September 2015, the 
  , including 2.22 lakh engineers and 255 PhD holders, for 368 posts of peons at the secretariat. When municipal corporations sought to appoint 40,000 sanitation workers in 2016, over 18 lakh applied. 
 
 
  
 
 Several opinion polls have thrown up jobs as one of the top issues troubling people.   had swept the 2014 polls in UP largely on the promise of creating jobs. “None of the three major parties vying for the state have a coherent job-creation strategy, whether in manufacturing or in the services sector. They’re offering sops, but the job situation is way beyond that,” says economist Ravi Srivastava, a JNU professor who’s been following the election campaign. 
 
 Agriculture remains the mainstay for income, but as it turns more and more unviable with input costs increasing, lakhs have abandoned farming in the past decade. But industrial or service sectors aren’t growing sufficiently to absorb this overflow.
 
 Besides lack of jobs, underemployment and poor quality of jobs are equally distressing in UP, Srivastava says. Many educated youngsters are now available for work but they get poorly paid jobs that don’t match their skills or training. According to the Labour Bureau report, 59% of those employed in UP earn less than Rs 7,500 per month. 
 
 This includes 30% who earn less than Rs 5,000 per month. Just 56% of the employed work round the year while 37% for six to 11 months a year when they are available for 12-monthly work, the report says. Another shocking finding is that about 85% of those employed have no written job contract and only 20% get paid leave. About 30% of workers are on a casual or contract basis and 15% earn regular wages or salaries. The rest 55% are self-employed, largely as farmers or shopkeepers. Nearly 14% of graduates and 13% post-graduates in the state are unemployed, as many are unable to find work matching their skills, education or work experience. Over the years, different belts of industrial activity have deindustrialised, like the ones near Bareilly, Kanpur,  , Varanasi, says Srivastav, who was formerly member secretary of the unorganised sector commission. 
 
 "Other states, like  , have paid attention to developing and modernising clusters of traditional industries, as in Kancheepuram. But UP’s traditional industries like carpet-weaving in Bhadohi, flower essence in Kannauj, brass in Moradabad, are facing a severe crisis. The recent notebandi has hit these sectors particularly hard,” Srivastava says.
 
