New Delhi: On the last day of filing nominations, BJP was struggling to finalise its candidates, taking out three lists on Monday itself. Sources said there were arguments between Delhi BJP chief Manoj Tiwari and other MPs. Party members said west Delhi MP Parvesh Sahib Singh Verma, south Delhi MP Ramesh Bidhuri and east Delhi’s Maheish Girri were dissatisfied over the selection of candidates.

 On Monday, the party released the lists in the afternoon to prevent rebels from filing papers as independents. “There was disagreement on 10 wards; as a result, the names were released very late. The protests were over the first list,” claimed a senior party member. Poonam Tyagi, a BJP worker from Najafgarh, however, said: “The party had said it will conduct a survey. But the kind of people it has fielded shows that they did nothing.” 
 
 Another group, from Maujpur, alleged that tickets were “sold”.
 
 The party has given tickets to northwest Delhi MP Udit Raj’s nephew, Vijay Raj, and Union science and technology minister Harsh Vardhan’s OSD Gulshan Virmani’s wife, Veena. Also, Sunita Kaushik, a resident of Inderpuri’s Gas Godown, at whose house Tiwari spent a night during his stay in slums in December, has got a ticket. “She complained that politicians don’t listen to people. I told her to contest the election and become a politician so that she can help people,” said Tiwari.
 
 Some party members said the senior leadership had not kept the voter profile in mind. For instance, BJP has fielded Bipin Bihari, its poorvanchal wing president, from Patparganj. “There is a very small section of poorvanchali vote here,” said a party functionary. 
 
 The decision to field wives and relatives of office-bearers has not gone down well with workers either. The party has given ticket to Chanchal Joshi, who is the wife of Mayur Vihar district president, and Aparna Goel, wife of the mandal president in IP Extension. Tiwari had earlier said that the maximum age of candidates would be 45 years. But the party has fielded Col (retd) Oberoi from Rajouri Garden and Tilak Raj Kataria from Shalimar Bagh (south). Party workers said while Kataria was in his 60s, Oberoi was more than 70 years old.
 
 The party has fielded seven state unit office-bearers. Jai Prakash (vice-president) will contest from Sadar Bazaar, whereas secretary Preeti Aggarwal will contest from Rohini F. Tickets have also gone to some who had lost elections in the past. For instance, Nandani Sharma, who lost the 2012 municipal poll and the 2013 MLA election, has got a ticket from Malviya Nagar.
 
