AMARAVATI: The   on Monday breached the fortress of Jaganmohan Reddy-led   in Kadapa district by winning the MLC seat from the local bodies' constituency. The ruling party made a clean sweep in the   as it bagged the hotly- contested   also.

 The TDP's victory in Kadapa is significant as it is a stronghold of leader of opposition  . Chief minister and TDP president   termed the victory “historic“. Ironically, the YSRC enjoyed the majority in the three local bodies constituencies, but TDP succeeded in luring a good number of electors to its side. The results were declared within three hours of counting in the morning.
 
 TDP candidate Mareddy Ravindranath Reddy alias B Tech Ravi left the YSRC camp shell-shocked when he won the Kadapa seat by 34 votes. He secured 433 votes as against YSRC candidate YS Viveka nanda Reddy's 399. Tension was palpable at the counting centre as the scales were tilting from one side to the other with each round of counting. Viveka took early lead, but Ravi surpassed him in the next two rounds. “This victory is very sweet for TDP as it ends a near fourdecade-long dominance of YSR family in Kadapa,“ a political analyst pointed out.
 
 The result in Nellore brought no less cheer for TDP when party nominee Vakati Narayana Reddy trounced YSR Congress opponent Anam Vijaykumar Reddy with a margin of 87 votes. As anticipated, nearly 50 voters who spent a fortnight in a TDP 'camp' are believed to have exercised their franchise in favour of the YSR Congress nominee. Initially, the TDP expected a majority of over 125-130 votes keeping in view of the electors it had in its fold. “But a majority of the electors kept their faith in the leadership of Chandrababu Naidu and voted for the TDP candidate,“ municipal administration minister P Narayana said. While Vakati got 465 votes, Anam secured 378.
 
 The result of Kurnool was on the expected lines as TDP's Silpa Chakrapani Reddy romped home by defeating YSRC's Gauru Venkata Reddy by 64 votes. The TDP expected more than a 100-vote majority , but the death of Nandyal legislator Bhuma Nagi Reddy changed the equation. “We were prepared for cross voting, but in the end our strategies worked,“ said Chakrapani Reddy . Sources said 35-40 voters might have voted for the YSRCP candidate.
 
 
 
 
 Throwing a challenge to YSRC president Jaganmohan Reddy, Chandrababu Naidu said their next target is Pulivendula even as he made a thundering claim in the Legislative Assembly that he is going to be the CM of Andhra Pradesh again.He said the Kadapa MLC election result will repeat in 2019 also. “We are not going to stop here. We are going to script a new history,“ said a beaming chief minister. “The election results have indicated the public mood on the government's performance. We are not contented with the development achieved so far. We will do more,“ he asserted.
 
