GURUGRAM: After the administration, the uncertainty surrounding Ryan International School has started affecting jittery parents. While the administration and   ( ) are leaving no stone unturned to ensure safety guidelines are implemented on the school’s numerous campuses, parents are doing their bit to ensure their children are safe at school. More importantly, that the schools survive, thereby protecting their children’s future.

 Parents from different branches of Ryan International in Gurgaon held two meetings, one in Leisure Valley Park on Sunday morning, the other in a park in Sector 15 on Monday. The meetings were aimed at chalking out parents’ roles in implementation of safety and security norms in the school’s branches.
 
 Collectively, parents have decided they will appoint volunteers to visit the schools on Saturdays to check whether the safety guidelines issued by CBSE and the state government are being followed. “Sub-divisional magistrate Bharat Bhushan Gogia has given the schools time till end of this month, after which we’ll visit the branches to check the implementation of various guidelines, such as installation of CCTV cameras in school campuses and buses,” said Pritam Sharma, who has two children, one studying in Ryan International Sector 31, the other in the branch in Sector 40. The schools haven’t been alerted about this plan yet, though.
 
 Some parent volunteers are also currently visiting the schools during the day to see things are in place. However, they believe such measures will not be feasible in the long run. A check can be kept through students instead, by simply making them aware of safety provisions.
 
 “While we have already submitted our agenda to the SDM some days back, and CBSE has also issued guidelines, we’re too panic stricken to discuss safety issues as of now. Hence, we’ve decided to do whatever we can to ensure our own kids’ safety and security,” said Shailesh Lokhande, a parent of a student in the Sector 31 branch.
 
 He added till now parents had been passively following up on the implementation of security and safety guidelines in the school. But now on, they will adopt a proactive stance and constantly work with the school management and government agencies for safer premises.
 
 Another reason for parents taking things in their hands is the lack of trust in the school management, especially in the wake of a series of “unfortunate” events.
 
  “Four lives have been lost across Ryan schools in the NCR in the last two years. We can’t leave safety of our kids on someone else any more. Also, I believe, their safety is as much our responsibility as that of the school,” said a parent who didn’t wish to be named.
 
 Parents had earlier submitted a 17-point agenda to the SDM, which highlighted issues such as CCTV camera installation, female attendants outside toilets in primary wings, meetings with parent committees and sessions on “good touch, bad touch”.
 
 
