MADURAI: Once thick with indigenous vegetation, especially lush   and meadows, the flora of the   hills have changed since 1970s thanks to the industrial planting of eucalyptus, wattle and pine trees. While this endangered the native trees, some species predominantly three of them have stood the test of time.

 Kela Maram (Chionanthus ramiflorus) is assessed to be about 300 years old, Thani Maram (Terminalia bellerica) about 200 years old, and Kona Maram (Celtis tetranda) is believed to be about 150 years old were documented recently by an avid conservationist in the Kodaikanal Wildlife Sanctuary.
 
 Retired deputy conservator of forests and president of Society for Conservation of Nature, V Sundararaju stumbled on these trees while documenting some of the oldest species in the region. The sanctuary , spread in Western Ghats, is known for luxuriant flora and interesting fauna. It is bestowed with a variety of forests such as dry deciduous, semi-evergreen, evergreen, grassland and Shola forests.
 
 Shola forests found here act as the overhead tank of the region supplying water not only to residents in the hills but those living in the foothills. “We could call these century-old trees inside forests as living organic monuments. The conservation of the trees and the forests is very much essential“, said Sun dararaju.
 
 M Michael of   and Environment (VOYCE) at Kodaikanal said that green meadows and indigenous trees in the valleys constituted the actual landscape of Kodaikanal once.“Industrial tree planting has destroyed the natural Shola forests in Kodaikanal and it is good to know that we still have such old trees in the sanctuary area“, he said.
 
 Sundararaju said that the younger generation should be sensitized about these old and rare trees in Kodaikanal creating a sense of conservation. There are many such rare and important trees that are to be identified and provided with suitable boards containing details like the scientific name, vernacular name, family , commercial uses and medicinal uses and status as per IUCN ( ).
 
 “These valuable trees have to be labelled with necessary details. In places where the tourists relax while they travel to Kodaikanal, suitable hoardings can be erected.These should have information pertaining to the precious trees identified there with the idea of creating awareness among the public in order to conserve the trees and the forests“, he added.
 
