BENGALURU: Dubbing himself a soldier for the   (GOPIO), motivational speaker and author   on Thursday emphasised the relevance and importance of the three P skills — people skills, persuasive skills and prioritising skills.

 Addressing PIOs from more than 60 countries on the occasion, Khera opined that the reservation policy in the country needed to change. “Reservation should not be based on caste, but education and economy. GOPIO should work with the government, and press for these changes,” said Khera.
 
 GOPIO upset at not being represented at Pravasi Bharatiya Diwas
 
 Minister of state for external affairs  , Rajya Sabha MP   and former Supreme Court judge Gopala Gowda were some of the dignitaries who were in attendance at the inaugural ceremony of the global convention of the Global Organisation of   (GOPIO) on Thursday in Bengaluru.
 
 GOPIO members expressed their displeasure at not being represented at the Pravasi Bharatiya Diwas (PBD), which is being held in the city from January 7 to 9.
 
 President of GOPIO Niraj Bakshi told Akbar that the body had essayed a vital role in helping the government devise the idea of PBD. “We have requested the government to allow our members to speak on this occasion, since we will be able to present the problems faced by the diaspora in a more convincing manner. However, a former GOPIO president, who was impeached, has been selected to speak at PBD. We hope we will be represented in the coming events,” Bakshi added.
 
 Akbar said that he had received a complaint in this regard, and would look into the same. Highlighting the significant role that global Indians had played in strengthening international relations, Akbar said, “Once, we had the song, ‘Mera joota hai Japani’. India no longer buys shoes from Japan. We are, in fact, in talks with Japan to build high-speed railway corridors. Nor is India buying Lal Topis (Red hats) from Russia. Instead, we are strengthening our defence, space and nuclear ties with Russia, besides becoming a major defence partner for America. This has materialised largely because of the global Indians in these countries,” Akbar said.
 
 Rajeev Chandrasekhar said that non-residential Indians (NRIs) were a powerful asset to the country. “The process of institutionalising the NRI and PIO communities is a long one. Many problems they are faced with today are very old. However, the principle of ‘leaving no Indian behind’, which the Centre has espoused is starting to yield results,” Chandrasekhar added.
 
 Justice Gopala Gowda too called for empowering the Indian diaspora, which, he said, would, in turn bolster the country.
 
