BENGALURU: The battle between two senior BJP leaders   and   has escalated, with the appointment of former Congress leader V Srinivas Prasad, who lost the Nanjangud bypolls on a BJP ticket, as vice-president of the party’s state unit.

 The appointment comes after the party's central leadership sacked four office-bearers, two each from the warring factions headed by Yeddyurappa and Eshwarappa.
 
 The appointment of Prasad irked the Eshwarappa camp as he belongs to the Yeddyurappa camp, though Eshwarappa welcomed his appointment in public. Prasad, dropped from chief minister Siddaramaiah’s cabinet, quit the Congress to join the BJP. His defeat in the byelection was seen as a major embarrassment for Yeddyurappa.
 
 “Prasad has been given party duties, though he had announced his retirement from electoral politics after his defeat in the bypolls. How can he inspire when the cadre morale is at an all time-low?’’ askeda BJP leader.
 
 What enraged the Eshwarappa camp more is the appointment of former Congress corporator P Nagaraj and two of Prasad’s confidants – K R Mohan Kumar and C Basave Gowda -- as special invitees to the BJP’s state executive committee meeting in Mysuru on May 6 and 7. By appointing Nagaraj of the Kuruba community to which Eshwarappa belongs, Yeddyurappa apparently wanted to send a message.
 
 But Yeddyurappa’s supporters claimed Prasad’s appointment had nothing to do with Eshwarappa but their leader wanted to make full use of Prasad’s standing as a dalit leader to strengthen the saffron party’s clout among the scheduled castes and scheduled tribes in the state, particularly in the Old Mysuru region.
 
 Interestingly, while Prasad and three others were appointed on Tuesday, the Eshwrappa camp has been busy sharing a letter signed by Yeddyurappa appointing Prasad on April 26 itself, a day before the four office-bearers were sacked. “It shows that Yeddyurappa has been taking unilateral decisions without heeding the diktat of party president Amit Shah. We’re not going to take this lying down,’’ said a senior leader and Eshwarappa supporter.
 
 With Yeddyurappa appointing most of his supporters in key posts, the Eshwarappa camp has decided to defy the BJP leadership’s orders to stay away from the activities of Sangolli Rayanna Brigade (SRB) and participate in the executive committee meeting in Raichur on May 8.
 
 Eshwarappa, who is in Raichur to oversee preparations for the Brigade meet, said he has Shah’s consent for organising backward community and dalit rallies under the SRB banner. However, he has reportedly changed his mind and decided to attend the meeting in Mysuru.
 
