All routes to reconciliation have shut down for estranged TV couple   and Vahbiz Dorabjee. After failing to resolve their marital differences over the past one year, the two have now decided to take the final step — divorce. In an informal chat with BT, Vahbiz confirmed the news. She also opened up about her marriage of three years and her future plans. 
Excerpts:
 
 
 
 No. Vivian is a closed chapter and we have both moved on. There is nothing to be said about our relationship now. Of course, I’ll be cordial with him if we bump into each other, but that’s about it; the marriage is over. We are both very busy with our work and our careers are our priority now.
 
 
 
 I have known Vivian for six years. I dated him for three years and have been married to him for three years. After we got married, I decided to give time to my husband and marriage rather than spend long hours at work. So, it was a conscious decision to not focus on my career at that time. There was no question of feeling demotivated because I was Vivian’s biggest support at that point. The fact that we are not together has nothing to do with his career or mine. When you are married, you don’t feel insecure about your husband’s success; you will actually be proud of it.
 
 
 
 I am nobody to comment on Pankit’s marriage. We are just business partners; the rest is a figment of imagination born in people’s small minds. Here I am ,trying to put the past behind, going through a painful time because my marriage has not worked out, shaking myself every morning and focussing on work, and people are trying to link me with other guys. Just because I am social and friendly, people link me with almost every guy I talk to. We talk of women empowerment and freedom, but the truth is, our society is narrow-minded. Secondly, I don’t think this is the time to look for another man. It will take a lifetime for me to forget Vivian. I have loved him a lot, nobody can replace him. 
 
 
 
 Not at all. I turned entrepreneur because I felt that I had the flair for networking and event management. Secondly, I also feel that an actor’s life is quite unstable. When a show gets over, there could be a huge gap before the next one. Also, actors face rejections everyday and it can be very depressing. During such times, it’s best to have a back-up plan.
 
 
 
 This is an exciting time to be on TV. As a person, I am very content and have no complaints. My suggestion is that roles should not be written only keeping in mind girls aged between 16 and 18. There are many young actresses who are slightly older, but don’t lack talent. 
 
 
  
 
 
