MUMBAI: Boosted by strong foreign fund buying in recent weeks, the BSE   on Monday closed at a new all time high of 29,910 points, up 290 points on the day as heavyweights like Reliance, L&T, ICICI Bank and HDFC rallied.

 The   on the NSE also closed at a new all-time peak at 9,238 points, up 64 points from its Friday close. The sensex is now just 115 points away from its all-time peak, touched during intra-day trades on March 4, 2015. The day's session also pushed investors' wealth, as measured by BSE's market capitalisation, to a new high at Rs 122.1lakh crore.
 
 Since BJP got strong mandate in state elections in March, foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) have been strong buyers in India. “Lot of FPIs were under-invested in India since demonetisation and US election results (both in early November). With confidence in the Indian economy coming back because of the strong governance, FPIs are buying in to India again,“ said Dharmesh Mehta, MD, Axis Capital. 
 
 “Globally, money is again flowing back into emerging markets,“ he said. Institutional dealers also sa id that the lack of good in vestment destinations for foreign fund managers is also prompting them to invest in India, which is currently one of the best performing markets. The recent appreciation of the rupee against major currencies and the government's push to roll out GST in a time-bound manner are also fuelling the Indian rush among FPIs.
 
 In March, FPIs have pum ped in about Rs 31,000 crore ($4.8 billion) into equities, making it the best month ever for foreign fund inflows in rupee terms. The previous best was exactly a year ago when in March 2016 these funds had net bought stocks worth Rs 21,143 crore, official data showed. In terms of dollar inflows, with a nte inflow figure of $5.3 billion, October 2007 is still the best month.
 
 Compared to the March figures, in February FPIs had net bought stocks worth Rs 9,900 crore and in January they had recorded a net outflow of nearly Rs 1,200 crore. 
 
