MADURAI: Soon, all the trees on the 47-acre   of The   in the heart of the city will carry   which can be scanned using   to get all information on them. The department of Immunology and Microbiology of the college is gearing up to extract the DNA sequences of all plant species and turn them into unique QR codes. 

 A tree will have a plate fixed on it carrying the QR code which will have details of its species and uses among other things which are known through DNA sequencing. QR code is a machine-readable code comprising an array of black and white squares which can be scanned in a few clicks on a specially designed android app. 
 
 According to experts, DNA sequencing is an emerging technology which will help conserve various species. People who are well-informed about the species and their uses would tend to protect them. Digitisation of the species will help them to know the uses and importance of a particular species easily. Moreover, digitising the DNA sequence will also help to recreate a plant species if it turns extinct one day. 
 
 A three-day workshop titled “DNA Barcode – Digital Green Campus” conducted with the support of EXONN Technologies, a Chennai-based bio-tech startup was inaugurated on Thursday with around 40 students, mostly of post-graduation streams, taking part. 
 
 “To start with, 20 species from the campus are to be digitised. The DNA sequence of the species will be extracted from the species through its leaves. The extracted sequence would be converted into QR codes and uploaded in the android app already created for this purpose. The app named as TAC-DBS will be launched at the end of the workshop,” said J Subburaj, scientific officer from EXONN Technologies. 
 
 Head of the department of Immunology and Microbiology M Andrew Pradeep said that specialists from bio-informatics, biology and information technology were working together in the workshop. “Our college would be the first in southern TN to become a digitised green campus. The sequence will be uploaded in the National Centre for Biotechnology Information under the subhead of the college name. The information will be available for all,” he said. 
 
 Andrew Pradeep said that a large number of species have already been lost and DNA sequencing was the way out to avert loss of data on others. A species could be recreated using the recombinant DNA technology in the event of it becoming extinct.
 
