VISAKHAPATNAM: With Toshiba’s US nuclear unit Westinghouse   filing for bankruptcy on Wednesday, the future of the Kovvada nuclear power project for which the company was to supply six AP 1000 reactors is uncertain but local officials were hopeful that the project will materialise. 

 NPCIL sources said the bankruptcy may limit Westinghouse's operations in the US, but it will not affect plans for setting up the 6,600 MW   in Ranasthalam mandal of Srikakulam district. NPCIL sources said the company is holding negotiations with Westinghouse on the price of the contract.
 
 A senior NPCIL official said the government is spending around Rs 1,200 crore for land acquisition as well as relief and rehabilitation for setting up the nuclear power plant at Kovvada. “So far, nobody has put their foot down stating that the project won’t happen. The bankruptcy filing doesn’t appear to affect the plan for supplying reactors to India. The project will go on and even this has been mentioned in Parliament," the official said, adding that the techno-commercial offer has been provided by Westinghouse to   (NPCIL) for which negotiations are underway. At the same time, the official said currently, NPCIL is undertaking the environmental impact assessment for the project. He also said basic studies and surveys required for the project are being carried out.
 
 However, former union energy secretary EAS Sarma said, "The   were initially meant for Gujarat, but was moved to AP as the people opposed the nuclear power plant there. Now Westinghouse has filed for bankruptcy before the US regulator. The question is should a bankrupt company be allowed to set up reactors in Kovvada. It will take them 15-20 years to complete the project and if you take away land, farmers and fishermen will be without livelihood. The government is not helping the people of Kovvada or the Indian economy by bringing this project, instead they appear to be more interested in bailing out Westinghouse. The company may raise some money showcasing this project and it will contribute to their profits."
 
 Furthermore, he said, "If it’s a bankrupt company, they will compromise on safety features. In the Civil Liability Law, in case of an accident, the company will only bear a liability of Rs 2,000 crore whereas the remaining liability will be on the tax payers of the country."
 
 So far, nobody has put their foot down stating that the project won’t happen. The bankruptcy filing doesn’t appear to affect the plan for supplying reactors to India. The project will go on and even this has been mentioned in Parliament.
 
