RAJKOT: Nerves may have got the better of debutant   in the first innings but when Mumbai needed to chase down the target of 251 for an outright win in their   semi-final against   at the Saurashtra Cricket Association ground here, Shaw was confidence personified.

 The 17-year-old resumed his innings on three on the final morning of the five-day affair, and he not only went on to get his maiden century but also helped Mumbai win the match by six wickets. Shaw became only the second Mumbai batsman to score a century on Ranji Trophy debut after   (260 vs Haryana, 199394), who was, co-incidentally, commentating on the match. 
 
 The final day, which was delayed by about 45 minutes due to fog, began with Mumbai needing 246 runs to win with ten wickets in hand. And if Tamil Nadu were expecting the heavy fog cover to change the way the wicket behaved, they were wrong. The wicket, dead as a pancake, offered nothing to the bowlers and the odd ball that kept low, was negotiated well by the Mumbai openers - Shaw and Praful Waghela.
 
 Shaw was a delight to watch. Aggressive by nature, Shaw did well to leave alone enough deliveries in the channel. He was also creative with his strokeplay, as he accumulated runs on either side of the wicket and maintained a strike rate of around 65 throughout his innings. Waghela, meanwhile, kept on encouraging him. His experience held Shaw in good stead.
 
 Waghela and Shaw added 90 runs for the first wicket, before the former fell for 36. Shreyas Iyer then walked in, appearing to have recovered from the stomach bug that struck him in the first innings. In no time, he found his rhythm. Flowing drives started fetching quick runs for Iyer and Mumbai.
 
 With two batsmen in an aggressive mood occupying the crease, batting was at its best. Before one knew it, the duo had added 91 runs for the second wicket. But like previous knocks, Iyer perished playing a nothing shot, castled by TN allrounder   for 40. But with the score reading 181-2, a win had become a formality for Mumbai.
 
 "I am delighted to have scored my maiden hundred. It would have been better had I scored it in the first innings though," Shaw said. Analysing his innings, Shaw said: "I knew I had missed out in the first innings but I was not thinking about that. I wanted to do well and I decided to just focus on my batting and not think about anything else. I had decided that I will play my shots and approach the match like any other match.
 
