AURANGABAD: The   of the Bombay high court has set aside the capital punishment awarded to a 32-year-old man for murdering his wife in 2014 and commuted his sentence to 30 years of imprisonment. 

 The court acquitting three others in the case.
 
 On the intervening night of July 24 and 25 in 2014, Nitin  , who worked as a driver, murdered his wife, Pranitha, by stabbing her 21 times at the staff quarters of the Dhule-based Agricultural College. After Gaikwad did not report to duty, college employees went to their residence to check on them and found the door locked from inside. On breaking open the door, they found Gaikwad and his wife in a pool of blood. Police also recovered a suspected suicide note by him, blaming Pranitha’s father for taking a loan of Rs 7 lakh from him and not returning it. The two had been married for a couple of months before the incident.
 
 On November 10, 2016, a lower court awarded the death sentence to Gaikwad, while his mother and two brothers were convicted for dowry harassment. They were sentenced to one month of rigorous imprisonment.
 
 While commuting the death sentence, the division bench comprising Justice S S Shinde and Justice K K Sonawne ruled that Gaikwad had pre-planned the murder and struck with extreme brutality. The circumstances on record show the murder was diabolical, cold-blooded and cruel, they said. They also said the accused had no regard for human life, or feelings of humanity or compassion for the woman.
 
 It further added that there were a few mitigating circumstances in favour of Gaikwad. Their neighbour, a witness during his cross-examination, had said the relationship between Gaikwad and Pranita was cordial. Another crucial witness, Pranitha’s father, had said that she wanted to stay with Gaikwad.
 
 The division bench, citing parameters applied by the   and also the absence of criminal antecedents/past criminal record of the accused and the age of the accused, set aside the capital punishment.
 
 Lawyer  , representing the four accused in the case, said, “The allegations about cruelty against the accused were too vague and generalized.”
 
 The lawyer also said that the judges gave the benefit of doubt to the other three accused in the case as it was on record that none of them were residing with the couple on the day of the incident. They were residing at Rahuri.
 
 The lawyer also said police failed to probe the elements of the suspected suicide note.
 
