New Delhi: It took a mere eight hours for police of south-east Delhi to nab two of the five men suspected to have killed 53-year-old Sarita Jain while carrying out a robbery in Lajpat Nagar IV on Tuesday. The arrest of the mastermind, Roshan, employed as a domestic help by the victim, and one of his accomplices, Shesh Narain, on Wednesday brought the investigation to a quick conclusion.

 “Gold and diamond jewellery and cash worth around Rs 23 lakh have been recovered,” said RP Upadhyay, joint commissioner of police. “Roshan earlier sold momos and committed the crime to make quick money and to fulfil his desire to buy an Audi car.”
 
 Roshan and Narain were taken in from Atta in Noida. Three other men, Beni Prasad, Arvind and Sonu, are on the run and police are on their pursuit. The cops will also take action against the owner of the placement agency from which Roshan was sent to the woman’s house.
 
 The crime had been discovered a little after 3pm on Tuesday when transporter Manak Lal returned home to find the house locked. Opening the door with his spare key, Lal found the other help, Rajan, gagged and tied in the living room. After freeing him, the duo discovered the body of Jain in the bedroom.
 
 “When we reached the house, we found almirahs in various rooms had been ransacked. In the bedroom, the body of the woman lay on the bed with the mouth, face, neck and legs taped up. We interviewed the woman’s husband, Manak Lal, for clues,” said Romil Baaniya, DCP (Southeast).
 
 Police suspected the role of Roshan in the crime since he had gone missing. Led by ACPs K P Singh and Satish Kain, 150 cops were divided into five teams under inspectors Ved Prakash, Love Attrey, Sanjeev, Rajender and   and they set up vigil at probable escape points such as the airport, bus terminals and railway stations.
 
 While the family members had no contact details about Roshan, one of them recalled that Roshan was on Facebook under the name of Balram. “We accessed his page and got his photographs, phone numbers and a list of his friends,” disclosed Baaniya. “Alongside the thorough questioning of almost 100 people, we also mounted technical surveillance on Roshan.”
 
 The cops also tracked the owner of the placement agency, who provided further details about Roshan. It transpired that the suspect had called up the agency owner, who lives in  , soon after the crime to collect pending payments.
 
 Roshan has admitted to the murder and robbery and named Narain, Prasad, Arvind and Sonu as his associates. After their crime, the men went to  , where they divided the booty among themselves.
 
