BENGALURU: Eyeing a long-term solution for Karnataka's agriculture concerns, the   is giving special importance to boosting agriculture productivity.

 After back-to-back droughts in the past three years, the focus has shifted on drought-resistant crops and cropping pattern using biotechnology. Considering that about 74% of the cultivable land in the state is under semiarid region and prone to repeated droughts, causing crop losses up to 60%, the government is looking at answers from biotechnology for resolving long-term farming concerns.
 
 “There is an urgent need for adoption of technologies such as phenomics to address this abiotic stress in tandem with other established technologies such as genomics, molecular breeding and other relevant ones,“ the policy says. The government will be looking at allowing agriculture biotechnology firms to either lease farm lands or make right investments in purchasing them.
 
 As per the biotechnology policy initiative 2017-2022, the government has said it will “allow owning or leasing of land by bio-agriculture   for performing field trials and other agriculture-related activities“.
 
 While the land requirements may vary from case to case, depending upon the extent of field trials, the government has thrown caution to the wind by saying it will be “streamlining“ and “capping“ the extent of land which will be allowed for purchase or lease by biotechnology companies.
 
 IT-BT minister Priyank Kharge said there was an increased demand in the agri-biotech sector with traction being received for experimentation in resolving the long-term agriculture concerns. “Recently, at the Elevate 100 programme of the department, of the 28 biotechnology firms nearly eight to nine companies dealt purely with agriculture biotechnology . And with increased awareness of organic farming, biotechnology will play a crucial role in providing chemical-free variety of farming,“ he said.
 
 Apart from field trials for building crop resistance, Kharge said there was a lot of demand from biotechnology companies to acquire land for manufacturing sector, wherein startups were looking at testing agriculture equipment. The policy also envisages increasing the productivity of the agriculture sector in Karnataka. The state is also looking at biotechnology for making its vast coastal tract of about 1.6 lakh hectares viable for farming, which at present is unsuitable for cultivation of crops owing to high salinity .
 
 
 
 Support agri-biotech incubation centre at University of Agricultural Sciences, Dharwad. Rs 6.5 crore investment in the first phase to establish incubation centre Establishsupport Technology Business Incubator with focus on agri and agri-allied fields in institutions such as UAS UHS UAHSS Collaboration with other departments (agriculture, horticulture, sericulture) to set up a centralized and cost-effective testing facility in a public system Funding provided to K Bio Venture by   (Rs 5 crore) will solely be used to support agri-biotech ventures in Karnataka
 
