UDUPI:   will release a special postal cover with cancellation covers on Vijaynath Shenoy and the Heritage Village commemorating World Heritage Day which falls on April 18.

 The department took the decision to honour Shenoy's contribution to Indian heritage. The cover may include his image and four structures from he Heritage Village and the trust logo on the cancellation cover.
 
 Shenoy, a heritage conservationist, antique collector and creator of the   in Manipal, passed away on March 9. Vijaynath, who could not bear to see the decay of heritage structures, would restore them. The Hasta Shilpa Heritage Village at Manipal was one of his projects and restored around 26 structures.
 
 Jayram Shetty, additional postal superintendent, said, “This year’s theme for the International Day for Monuments and Sites (World Heritage Day) is ‘Cultural Heritage and Sustainable Tourism’. Vijaynath Shenoy's Hasta Shilpa Heritage village fits the theme perfectly. The trust has applied for the cover, including cancellation cover. As a procedure, a minimum of 2,000 cards have to be printed, of which 1,000 will be distributed to the All India Philatelic Bureau. Cancellation cards will have philatelic value.”
 
 He added, “The institution can use it as a memento. The price of the special cover varies on the day of release and venues. On Sunday, the price is high. However, Heritage Dday falls on Tuesday and hence, the price is less. If the Hasta Shilpa Trust so wishes, it can have a special stamp by paying Rs 300 with ID proof and picture of Shenoy. 'My stamp' value will be Rs 20 per stamp and normal stamp will be Rs 5. 'My stamp' will have one side national logo and another side picture of the person. Corporates do have picture on both sides. As it is costly to print, the minimum order is 5,000 and the cost is Rs 15 lakh.”
 
 In a rare branding exercise with a private entity, India Post will bring out a limited edition of the special cover, a philatelist’s delight. “A limited number of such special covers and stamps, brought out to commemorate occasions, are considered very valuable by collectors. Further, if the trust so wishes, it can send a proposal to the postal department to have a postal stamp on Vijaynath Shenoy,” he added.
 
 
