NEW DELHI: A 15-year-old boy from   died due to multi-organ failure following a minor twist in the ankle. He did not have any history of serious illness, family members said.

 The boy,  , was playing football on July 10 when he twisted his ankle. He was rushed to the   where the doctors put a plaster on the injured leg because there was swelling and pain.
 
 A day later, when the pain persisted, Vishal was rushed to the hospital again and doctors prescribed painkillers.
 
  When the pain still persisted, the boy’s blood test was done. It showed that the Total Leukocyte Count (TLC) — an indicator of infection — was little above the normal range (11,800), Dr Ranbir Singh, medical director of the NDMC hospital, told TOI. He said that antibiotics were then added to the prescription to avoid any complication. 
 
 However, on July 13, the boy was rushed to the hospital again with severe infection, low blood pressure and no pulse. “We do not know how he reached that stage,” Dr Singh said.
 
 The NDMC hospital resuscitated Vishal and referred him to Safdarjung Hospital where he was admitted in ICU. 
 
 “The boy was in septic shock when he came to our hospital. Infection had spread to all organs. We put him on ventilator support and gave broad spectrum antibiotic but it didn’t help. He succumbed on Tuesday morning,” said Dr J C Suri, professor and head of pulmonary medicine.
 
 It is suspected that the boy suffered internal injury and infection that remained untreated and spread further to the body leading to the fatality.  , the Vishal’s father, said he did not have any previous illness and he was physically fit.
 
  “I do not know how he became so serious,” said Baswal, a waiter by profession.
 
 Baswal, a resident of Sanjay camp in Chanakyapuri, got his son admitted to Sanskriti School through EWS quota. 
 
 “He was a bright child. We are so devastated to know about his sudden death. There has been some medical negligence and proper investigation is needed to fix culpability,” father of one of Vishal’s classmates, said.
 
 “If there is persistent fever after an injury, blood investigations are a must to detect infection. Also, timely treatment is required to ensure it doesn’t spread to other organs,” said a doctor.
 
 
