GREATER NOIDA: Over 120 buyers of  , a mixed land use project protested outside the company office in   on Sunday. Insisting on meeting the five project directors, the buyers said that they will not return from the spot, till they meet all the five project directors.

 According to the project directors, only one of the directors Manoj Chaudhary met them and asked them to come inside the builder’s site office.
 
 “We were hesitant to go inside. Last time, one of the directors Vikas Bhagat had alleged that the protesters were called to the spot after a payment of Rs 250. We were apprehensive in the beginning but later we entered the  . Only one director Manoj Choudhary met us and said that the project is stalled because Vikas Bhagat, one of the directors of the company had apparently siphoned off some money from the project to other projects,” said Prashant Yadav, one of the buyers who invested in the   private Limited project in 25 acres of Noida Extension.
 
 As the buyers insisted that all five directors of the project, Manoj Choudhary, Sanjay Choudhary, Anil Sutar, Vikas Bhagat and Sameer Sutar meet them, they called up Anil Sutar and Vikas Bhagat and asked them to confront them all.
 
 “We called them but Vikas Bhagat and Anil Sutar refused to meet us. Anil Sutar said that Vikas Bhagat will talk to us as he himself does have the background of the project as he has been a silent stake-holder for the past four years and has been made director only in December. Vikas Bhagat said that there was no prior appointment taken by the buyers for the meeting,” Yadav said.
 
 The buyers have booked commercial spaces in two 17-floor buildings, a tower and villas at the site and said that the project has come to a complete standstill over last one and half years.
 
 When contacted, Manoj Choudhary said that they have got an audit of the project conducted in February and got the report on April 18. "It was clear that construction deals were offered to one particular company in which the director is the wife of Vikas Bhagat. It was a mutual decision to stop operations of Vikas Bhagat as director since December. I never commented on his direct role,” he said.
 
 Anil Sutar said that he will not comment on the role of Vikas Bhagat as he has not seen the audit report so far.
 
 Vikas Bhagat meanwhile said that the allegations are incorrect and are being levelled against him because Manoj Choudhary wants to overtake the project. “I hold only 20 per cent of shares and Manoj Choudhary and his brother hold 50 per cent of shares. He wants to take over the project,” he said.
 
