MADURAI: Sri Meenakshi Sundareswarar temple has been adjudged the cleanest temple in the country under Swachhta Hi Seva programme, the best among ten iconic places in the country selected under the  . 

 Dedicated to Meenakshi, a form of Parvati, and her consort Sundareswar, a form of Shiva, the temple was adjudged the Best Swachh Iconic Place from a formidable list of contenders which included the  , Ajmer Sharif Dargah, the Golden Temple, Tirupathi temple and Sri Vaishno Devi temple. Madurai district collector   and corporation commissioner Aneesh Sekhar will collect the award at a function being organized by the ministry of drinking water and sanitation, the convening ministry for Swachh Bharath Mission, in New Delhi on Monday. The function will be held to mark Gandhi Jayanthi and the culmination of the Swachhta Hi Seva.
 
 In the last couple of years, there has been a concerted effort to keep the temple clean and plastic-free. In all, 60 employees on contract work round-the-clock to keep the premises clean while about 300 volunteers also pitch in with their efforts every month. Corporates like TVS and Thiagarajar Mills in Madurai send their staff for regular cleanup activities in the temple. Joint commissioner of the temple,  , said that they ensured that the workers were given the best equipment like mopping machine, water air gun and hydraulic ladder which made cleaning the edifice easy. 
 
 Though there was an order to slap a spot fine of Rs 50 on anybody who littered the temple, "we have never had the need to do so because the clean environment of the temple itself deters people from littering it," he said. After the temple made it to the first list of 10 out of the 100 iconic places selected in the country, the Madurai corporation swung into action while the district administration also paid special attention to it. Plastic was banned in the one kilometre radius of the temple from January 1 and regular inspections conducted. 
 
 Corporate social responsibility (CSR) activities were streamlined with sanitation and cleanliness of the temple and its surroundings taken up under Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd’s (BPCL) Rs 11.65 crore funds. Aimed at making the temple attractive to tourists and also clean, self-flushing e-toilets were installed around the temple. As dust from manual sweeping can be a menace, the streets around the temple are cleaned with only mechanical hand sweeping machines. 
 
 Dumper bins from which waste is removed by big vehicles can spoil the outer appearance of the premises. Hence, they were replaced by the more attractive compactor bins which can be lifted by smaller vehicles. Besides these, twin bins paved the way for on-site segregation of biodegradable and non-biodegradable waste. Acquisition of water ATMs operating through reverse osmosis is in the tender stage now while battery vehicles are also to be reintroduced to transport tourists and visitors to the temple.
 
 Corporation assistant health officer   said that waste was being collected only after segregation at source in the house, hotels and business establishments around the temple. They were also exploring the possibilities of installing the temple’s own sewage treatment plant (STP) so that water from the temple could be recycled and used for watering the parks and gardens around it.
 
