GANDHINAGAR/KOZHIKODE: A Muslim woman gram panchayat president was allegedly prevented from entering the venue of ‘Swachh Shakti 2017’, the all India convention of woman sarpanchs addressed by Prime Minister   at Gandhinagar on Wednesday. 

 The convention was attended by 6,000   from across the country.
 
 The Muslim sarpanch alleged that she was stopped because she was wearing a black ‘mafta’ or headscarf. 
 
 “The police said the black mafta will not be allowed into the hall,” alleged Sheherbanath, president of the Muppainad gram panchayat in Wayanad, Kerala. “I was forced to remove the headscarf and hand it over to the security personnel at the venue. I attended the function without the mafta.” 
 
 Sheherbanath, who is a member of the IUML, said the police later returned the headscarf after strong protests from the Kerala delegation. The panchayat president was a part of the 100-member delegation from Kerala that had gone to Gandhinagar to attend the Swachh Shakti programme, jointly organized by Gujarat and central government.
 
 In a Facebook post, Kayakkodi panchayat president Aswathi K T, who also attended the programme, said: “We registered a strong protest when the police refused to let Sheherbanath in wearing the black headscarf. We took up the issue with the SP and finally the headscarf was returned. Why should we celebrate Women’s Day when an elected representative is not allowed to wear a dress of her choice?"
 
 The Muslim Youth League president of Kerala, P K Firos, claimed that the incident was a challenge to the Constitution. In a statement issued in Kozhikode, he said that it was a serious matter that the incident had taken place where the Prime Minister was present.
 
 Shashidharan Pillai, Kerala state coordinator of Suchitwa Mission, said that three women were stopped and asked to step aside for security check despite them being already checked while entering the Mahatma Mandir premises. Two women were from Kasargod district while another was from Wayanad.
 
 “The three women were upset at the suggestion of a double security check and insisted that other women too should also be asked to undergo the same process,” Pillai said. “Kerala team's coordinator Kripa Warrier intervened and identified the women. The women nevertheless were checked for security purpose and allowed to attend the event.”
 
 Virendra Singh Yadav, SP, Gandhinagar, said that there was no other intention but to match the women with their ID cards. “The women’s faces could not be clearly identified because of the attire. The Kerala women were checked by a woman constable and a woman officer in a ladies' enclosure to match their identities with their I-cards. It was just a security procedure as is followed at airports,” Yadav said.
 
 Senior Gujarat police officials said the security team was high-strung due to the recent terror threats. As this event was being attended by the PM, they did not want to take any risk.
 
