MUMBAI: For the first time in over 25 years, the   ( ) has allowed a city builder,  , to utilise transfer of development rights ( ) anywhere in Mumbai including the  .

 TDR was strictly prohibited in the island city and could only be used for construction purposes in the suburbs. But a new state government policy introduced last November opened up its use anywhere, including prime localities in south Mumbai where property prices are some of the highest in the world.
 
 “Lodha is the first beneficiary under the revised TDR policy,” said civic sources, adding the government wanted to compensate land owners just like under the Land Acquisition Act.
 
 Lodha surrendered over an acre (4,500 sq m) from its 17.5 acres Shreeniwas Mills property in Lower Parel to the state housing authority (Mhada) free of cost for housing mill workers. As compensation under the new policy, the builder received around 12,000 sq m from the BMC’s development plan department. The builder can use this additional construction rights to build in any area (for instance, Cuffe Parade, Malabar Hill) or sell the entire stock to a third party.
 
 Lodha Group MD, Abhishek Lodha, said they were yet to decide whether to utilise the TDR on another plot or sell it altogether. “We will not be using the TDR on the Shreeniwas Mills property,” he said. Lodha is building a residential skyscraper on this defunct mill land.
 
 Under the new policy, if the government acquires a private land free of cost and without any encumbrances, the owner of such a plot in the island city will be entitled to a TDR 2.5 times the area surrendered and a maximum of two times the area surrendered in the suburbs.
 
 TDR is a vital tool for builders because it allows them construction rights over and above the normal construction (FSI) that is currently permitted when they construct or redevelop buildings. TDR is generated when the developer/owner surrenders land to the government and agrees to rehouse slum dwellers or project-affected persons free of cost. In turn, a TDR certificate is issued that gives him additional construction rights. Till now TDR was to be used only in the suburbs but only to the north of the plot he has surrendered.
 
 Builders say no redevelopment project is feasible or financially viable without it. But town planners and citizen activists have opposed this development tool since years. Its rampant use has led to old bungalows and low-rise buildings abutting narrow roads in Bandra, Khar and Juhu to be demolished and replaced by skyscrapers. This further burdened the already creaking civic infrastructure and resulted in unplanned growth. Despite the tremendous load that TDR has brought to these localities the BMC has failed to augment drainage, road space and open spaces.
 
 With TDR now allowed in the island city, experts fear this could further burden the infrastructure in areas between Colaba to Sion and Mahim.
 
 “TDR has never been used in a planned manner. Market forces have always determined where it can be used. There has never been a study to find out if the infrastructure could support this additional construction,’’ said an architect, not wishing to be named.
 
 
