AURANGABAD: BJP and   corporators locked horns on Saturday during the general body meeting over water supply line that is allegedly being built in Satara Parisar to favour an influential Sena leader.

 BJP corporator   said the municipal administration displayed amazing efficiency in implementing the project only to favour the political leader hinting at west Aurangabad MLA Sanjay Shirsat, who owns a housing block in the area. 
 
 According to Shinde, the proposal to lay the water supply line was introduced in the agenda at the general body meet held in March 2017 at the last minute and was passed without the knowledge of the corporators. 
 
 Interestingly, it was proposed by Sena corporator Siddhant Shirsat, son of Sanjay Shirsat. 
 
 “The proposal was passed within no time and the authorities started executing the work. The authorities have completed the process of inviting bids and also allotted the contract to an agency at a cost which is 37% above the estimated cost,” he said. 
 
 While the general body was debating over the burning issue of water scarcity, Shinde said the municipal administration preferred laying the new pipeline in the Satara Parisar especially meant for a premium class under-construction housing scheme. “It is a new locality where more than 50% of the plots are vacant, but the civic body started working on the project. If the authorities could have shown efficiency for similar projects in other localities, the city would have not faced water scarcity,” he said. 
 
 Normally, the municipal administration takes more than six months in tender process and delays the execution. 
 
 Shinde further said that even as the city is falling short of water, authorities are busy offering new connections to influential people. 
 
 However, Shiv Sena corporators including Raju Vaidya and   strongly opposed the allegations. They said that Shinde’s allegations were baseless. “Shinde should not drag the name of political leaders who are working relentlessly for the welfare of the society,” Vaidya said. 
 
 When contacted  , executive engineer and in-charge of water supply, said, “The administration is executing the projects as per the direction of the general body. We have the approval of the general body and thus there is nothing wrong in executing the project,” he said. 
 
 Meanwhile, mayor Bapu Ghadamode, said, “The administration should check feasibility of the project and take appropriate decision.” 
 
