CHENNAI: Twenty-six-year-old S Devaraj from Korattur broke his hip and had the left ankle severed after he fell from the fast local on Thursday morning. Deep bruises on his face told of the hit he sustained while coming in contact with ballasts on the railway tracks. 

 Although Devaraj is out of danger now, the first generation graduate from a family of construction workers is staring at a bleak future. He has been the sole breadwinner for his family.
 
 "He is a hard-working boy who earns Rs15,000 per month. He contributes Rs 10,000 to the family," said his father K Subramaniam, a construction worker. Beside him, Devaraj’s sister stood fighting back tears. "Last month we were told by an astrologer that his time was not good. Because of that he was living at his sister’s place in Tambaram," said Subramaniam. Fate, it seems, caught up with Devaraj.
 
 At the casualty ward of Rajiv Gandhi Government  , where five of the injured are being treated, Madhusudhanan lay wrapped in a blanket. He fell from the train and badly injured his left hand and leg. One of his relatives said the train did not stop although a commuter pulled the emergency chain. "The train was not that crowded as it used to be on other days. The commuters paid the price for the mistake of one man who seems to have dangled far out causing his bag to get snagged on a pole," he said.
 
 Before the tragedy came to light, the scene at St Thomas Mount railway station turned chaotic after commuters waiting at the platform realised that a few people had fallen onto the tracks from the fast local train that whizzed past at 9.15am. Panicked passengers on the train waved their hands and shouted to tell that some fellow commuters had fallen off the running train. Some had tried to pull the emergency chain, but it had snapped.
 
 "It came to a halt in Guindy, its scheduled stop. The train was packed and most of the people did not know how the whole incident took place," said Poornima, a commuter.
 
 Personnel from the Railway Police Force had a tough time pushing back the crowd that thronged the accident site to catch a glimpse of the bodies. But for residents of Thiruvalluvar Nagar and Jeevan Nagar located on either side of the tracks, the deaths are nothing new. They are familiar with the screams and shudders born out of urban helplessness.
 
