NASHIK: The city recorded a maximum   of 40.3 degree celsius (4 degrees above normal) on Monday — highest temperature in the month of   in 13 years. The minimum temperature too rose to 19.6C, 2 degrees above normal. 

 The met office has warned of a   wave for the next two days over north Maharashtra. “The temperatures are rising and the trend could continue for the next few days,” the Indian   (IMD) said in a statement on Monday.
 
 The heat wave is expected in isolated places in north Maharashtra, Vidarbha and other areas, the IMD said, adding that the temperatures are likely to soar higher by about a degree during the period.
 
 “The weather is expected to remain dry till March 31, even as the heat wave is likely to affect some parts of north Maharashtra till March 29. In addition to this, the minimum temperature is also likely to increase to 21C during this period,” an IMD official said.
 
 “Although the temperature in Nashik has touched 40.3C just 0.1 degree short of the all-time high for the month of March, there are all the chances that the month could be the warmest in the history of Nashik after the IMD warning,” an official from the district collectorate said.
 
 “The temperature could cross the 42-C mark in view of the radiation from concrete structures and emissions from vehicles. Since the weather stations are located in secluded areas with vegetation around, the actual temperature in the city is higher than what is officially recorded,” Sanjay Hatekar, an engineer by profession, said.
 
 Bhira recorded 43.5C to top the chart in the state, followed by Akola (42.8C) and Malegaon (42.4C).
 
 Citizens are having a tough time with the heat though. “It was blistering hot for the second consecutive day today (after Sunday). It is hardly possible to move out in the afternoon. But, we don’t have the luxury to stay back as many people like us have to go to a factory for the job,” said Jay Surve, a resident of   and working in a company in Satpur. 
 
 The ones taking the best opportunity out of the heat are vendors who sell cane juice on the road. “On an average I sell about 150 glasses till afternoon. On Monday, we sold at least sold 200 glasses of cane juice,” said Hanumant Sonawane, a resident of Beed district who has set up a cane juice stall in the city.
 
