 addas in the city are seeing fewer customers these past few weeks, as people are lining up for beverages that help beat the heat. Sugarcane juice hawkers and nariyal pani walas are back on the streets and many have set up shop outside colleges. Thanks to this, the otherwise packed chai gumtis, now wear a desserted look in the afternoons, when the temperature is at its peak. MBA student Mallika Soni, from EMRC College, says, “Our lunch break is from 
  and after three back to back lectures in the morning, we crave something cold. Watermelon and orange juice have become my beverage of choice these days.” Udit Prajapati, who accompanies Mallika for juice shares, “Almost 10-12   have come up in a 200 metre radious of the campus. We are exploring them and keeping the heat at bay.”

  
  
 
 
 And it’s not just fruit juice that’s in demand now. Chaach or buttermilk, another sumer favourite, is also finding plenty of takers. Rohit Kabra, an MBA Finance student of IIPS College says, “The college canteen provides chaas in tetra packs and I choose that over juice. It keeps me hydrated and since it is available in a tetra pack there’s no worry about hygiene as well. Soda-shikanji is another option that many people go for.”
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Sugarcane juice walas can be spotted at every nook and corner of the city. Aman Agrawal, a BBA student of Indore Public School College, shares, “There are almost five makeshift sugarcane juice stalls around our college. Since it’s easily available and costs only `10, we make two trips a day to these stalls.” Besides sugarcane juice, nariyal pani is also a hot favourite among youngsters. Anushi Jain, an under-grad student of Prestige College adds, “A nice canopy has been erected near our college where nariyal pani is served. We spend time there post college hours. I prefer nariyal pani over other beverages available at roadside stalls because you don’t have to bother about cleanliness or whether the fruits are fresh, like you would at a juice stall.”
 
 Picture Courtesy: Aayush Joshi
 
