MELBOURNE/KOTTAYAM: Within the span of a week, another Indian was subjected to a 
  in Australia, raising serious concerns regarding the safety of lakhs of Indians residing there. 33-year-old Li Max Joy, a Malayali taxi-driver, was assaulted by a group of Australians in the early hours on Saturday. The worse was to follow, as the local police did their best to discourage him from pursuing with a police case.

 Speaking to TOI from Hobart in Tasmania, Joy said, "I will stand till my last breath to make sure they will be punished under the Australian law." Hailing from Puthuppally near Kottayam, he has been living and working in Hobart for eight years. He is a qualified automobile engineer who attends nursing classes during the week, and drives the taxi cab he owns during weekends. His wife and child also stay with him.
 
 Recalling the most horrifying experience of his life, Li said that he was assaulted by three youngsters on the premises of a McDonald's restaurant around 5am on March 25. "On my way back home I had dropped in at the eatery to use the toilet. I dropped my plan to have a coffee as I saw a group of youngsters arguing with the store manager. As I went to my car and took out my jacket from the boot of the car, the group of four boys and a girl came out. The youngster walking in front was continuously abusing the store manager and when he saw me started shouting at me saying "You black Indian ...". Even before I could realise what was happening, the person punched me on my face twice. The others joined him and I lost count of the punches I received. Though I ran into the store, one of them held on to my shirt and was continuously punching," said Li.
 
  
  
 
 
 Li thanked the store manager for saving his life, as he called the nearest police station and spoke in a loud voice so that the attackers could realise that the police will arrive soon. Li tried to take some snaps of the attackers while the gang was leaving. As they saw this they returned and punched him again. The cops soon arrived at the spot and took down the details from Li.
 
 Li ended up in the emergency department of the Royal Hobart Hospital with bleeding wounds. Scans and X-rays were carried out to see if he had suffered any internal injuries.
 
  
  
 Meanwhile, on Sunday morning around 6.45am he received a phone call from the police station asking him to report at the station at 9am for photographs and other formalities regarding the case. "I waited there for around one hour and there was neither a cameraman nor were they interested in attending to my case," said Li. He called up the control room of the police department and shared his agony. "I told them that I am a victim and do not treat me as a criminal," he said. "In an hour, the cops attended to me and I am now waiting for the results of further action," he said.
 
 He added that the racial mood in Tasmania is changing and assaults and ethnic slurs are becoming common. "Last week I was waiting for a fare when a primary-school-aged boy put water in his mouth and then came over to the car window and spit it out on me," Li said. The youth shouted, "You black Indian why not you go back to your country." 
 
 He said the increasing racial hostility could stem from "the Donald Trump effect". "The racial mood is definitely changing. It is continuous now. Many other drivers have been abused but not everyone reports it to the police."
  
 He says that the video footage of the assault on him with clear visuals of those who assaulted him are available in the CCTV of the McDonald’s. "I have no right to get hold of that or see it. It is the police who have to act," says Li. "If I remain silent such cases will only increase." He has also sent a detailed email to External Affairs Minister Sushma Swaraj.
  
  
  , a priest hailing from Thamarassery, was stabbed in front of horrified worshippers while delivering mass at a church in Australia last Sunday. The man had allegedly yelled, "You are Indian, a Hindu or Muslim, you cannot say mass, I will kill you," while stabbing the priest.
 
 The priest had escaped with minor injuries.
 
 
