KOLKATA: So what happens to the match? 

 This status update of a   enthusiast on Saturday afternoon reflected the anxiety of a city prepared to see its home team play its last match on the home ground this IPL. The rain brought relief from the stifling heat but   fans did not look very upbeat.
 
 “This may jeopardise KKR’s chances of finishing in the top two. They need to play the match and win it,” said Vishal Gulati, a KKR fan.
 
 Rising Pune Supergiant’s loss to Delhi Daredevils on Friday gave an edge to KKR to finish in the top two spot. But the victory of   over Gujarat Lions did create a little uncertainty. The silver lining though was the net run rate, which was in favour of Gambhir & Company.
 
 Several fans from different parts of the city and its suburbs were on their way to the Eden Gardens to watch the match when a thunderstorm kicked off a dust storm, which was followed by a downpour. “I hope the match does not get cancelled. I so want to see KKR thrash MI and finish in the top two,” said Suraj Pachisia, another KKR supporter.
 
 Several fans voiced their concerns over the non-performing middle order of the team. “Though   and   are back, the middle order has not performed to its potential. The likes of Pathan and Yadav have not fired in crucial matches and that may have cost us a few matches,” said Afzal Shah, a Class XII student. Fans were pinning their hopes on  , who played a big role when KKR won IPL in 2014. “He has been consistent in the middle order. Hope he carries on with his form,” said Afzal.
 
 The fans were relieved when the covers started coming off around 7.30pm. A loud cheer went around the ground. “These are encouraging signs. It seems match will start on time. A truncated match could have gone either way,” said Akash Ghosh, a second-year student of Asutosh College.
 
 “KKR should focus on finishing in the top two. If they beat Mumbai, depending on the margin of victory, they could top the table. If they lose, to finish in the top two they will need Sunrisers and Pune to lose their final games but I’d rather not be in that situation,” said Nitish Kajaria of Alipore, who was headed to the stadium at 7pm. 
 
 DJ Kunal at the console summed up the mood inside the ground. “It is electrifying in here. Though fans were a little apprehensive early in the evening, the mode changed as soon as the covers were taken off. The stands came to life. It is going to be a very big evening,” said Kunal.
 
 
