Placement   on   seem to have found a new meaning. With congratulatory messages on   through Insta posts and Snapchats, the party time is not just restricted to online space. From dunking students in a puddle pool, hiring dhol groups to pool parties, youngsters are going that extra mile to ensure that this indeed is a special moment in their lives.

 
 
 
 Ayushi Manwadiya, an MBA Finance student of International Institute of Professional Studies, reveals the celebratory mood on campus. “Each time students are informed that they have been selected, the campus comes alive with music and naach gaana. I recently got placed with a bank and my friends called the dhol wala inside the campus and we danced till dusk. I had to treat them since all of us were in a great mood,” says Ayushi. Priyanka Saluja from the same college who has been religiously updating her posts on social media congratulating her friends and batch mates adds, “Whenever we get the news of one of the boys being selected, we hold their hands and legs and swing them up in the air. These moments of celebrating together will be etched in our memory forever. ”
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 Every college has its own way of celebrating  . For students of Institute of Management Studies, DAVV getting placed means getting dunked, literally! Animesh Tiwari, an MBA marketing final year student of IMS explains, “We have a water body near the idol of Saraswati Maa in the campus. It is half-a-decade old ritual to dunk the students inside the 
 (as we call it) if he/she gets placed. The faculties also co-operate in being part of this celebration.” Kanha Rai, first year student, adds, “It’s quite an amazing feeling to see our seniors have so much fun. The other seniors pour water on the ones inside the 
 .
 We hope when we get our placements we get to enjoy as much.”
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 Some students have organised pool parties to celebrate the biggest moment in their lives. Yash Pagare, a student of Educational Multimedia Research Centre (EMRC) who has recently got placed with a television channel says, “The authorities in our college are strict. We are not allowed to organise a dance session after the placements are announced. My placement is due around Holi and we have plans of organising a  .”
 Sahir Kingrani, from IIPS college who got placed with an MNC adds, “We celebrated with a pool party and an elaborate cake with the initials of the company as the icing.
 
  
