AHMEDABAD: SG Road and Vastrapur have emerged as   in the city. These roads figure among the top five accident spots in Ahmedabad that consist of nearly 20% of the total road accidents reported in the city in a year, according to a recent research by EMRI 108. 

 The EMRI identifies the ambulance location. One ambulance approximately serves to five km radius in urban areas. 
 
 On the basis of that, road stretches such as Panjrapol to Vastrapur, Underpass to Pakwan crossroads on SG Road, Ashram Road,   to Gurukul and   to Paldi bus stand are some of the roads reporting a high rate of accidents.
 
 Jashvant Prajapati, COO, EMRI Gujarat, said that the silver lining of the find is a gradual reduction of accidents on some of the stretches. Bodakdev remained the top ambulance location addressing road traffic accident (RTA) cases in both 2015 and 2016. However last year, it reported 48 less cases.
 
 “Overall, we have seen that 60 to 70% cases involve two-wheelers. Probability of the accidents with multi-casualties is high during night time where vehicle’s speed plays a major part. In 90% of the RTA cases, the patients were hospitalized for major or minor injuries,” said Prajapati.
 
 But why the areas in the western city parts? Experts cite reasons such as a dense vehicular population and more awareness about calling ambulance in the case of accidents.
 
 “But there are other factors as well. One can see that there are many smaller lanes merging to the main road in many of the areas in top five. The accidents occur when drivers from either main road or lane don’t pay heed to the other or are going fast. Our tendency to take long turns also become one of the causes of accidents,” said  , a city-based road safety expert.
 
 Traffic branch officials said that the decision to keep three traffic police stations functioning was to ensure that the accidents on the stretches of SG Road, SP Ring Road and other with high accident rates can be investigated properly.
 
 “According to our analysis, the number of fatal accidents is high in the city periphery. The city limits report comparatively lower number of police cases in road accidents,” said a senior traffic branch official.
 
