PUNE:   burning on Ahmednagar Road in the early hours on Thurday rendered many residents of Yerawada, Vishrantwadi, Ahmednagar Road, Dhanori and surrounding areas powerless.

 Four cables of the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL), located in a trench on Ahmednagar Road, were burnt around 3am, disrupting power supply for nearly 19 hours in some pockets.
 
 The fire brigade was called in to douse the fire, after which MSEDCL engineers started the task of repairing the damaged cables. While power was restored phase-wise in pockets of Ahmednagar Road, Yerawada and Vishrantwadi by 9am on Thursday, people in and around Ganesh Vihar, Jakat Naka, Shree Hans Garden and   suffered the outage till as late as 10pm on Thursday.
 
 One of the affected residents of the area,   said, “We have an inverter at home but appliances like the fridge don’t work on backup, so there is risk of spoilage. MSEDCL staff are efficient, but the wiring and cables are not. In fact, we suffer power cuts almost everyday. High-tension wires are still not underground. Short-circuits are common here because of strong breeze.”
 
 Ashwin Pawar, chairman of Siddharth Modern Homes in Vimannagar, who was also affected, said, “The heat is unbearable and not everyone owns an invertor at home. I was told by a family that their fridge conked off because of a sudden surge in power. What’s worse is that it gets difficult to register complaints on MSEDCL’s call centre as they don’t pick up the phone at all.”
 
 Another resident of the area said, “I was out driving early on Thursday and the area around Yerawada up to Sangamwadi was pitch dark. It was difficult to see anything.”
 
 A spokesperson for the power distribution company said, “The disruption happened because of a major fire. We are still examining the exact sequence of events that led to our cables getting damaged. We restored power to most areas through backfeeding on an alternate supply line till our engineers repaired the burnt cables.”
 
