Jaipur, March 14 (IANS) Jawahar Kala Kendra (JKK) in the Pink City is all set to play host to the second edition of its performing arts festival, Navras and bring together some ethereal elements from the art, culture and music space under one roof. 

 Spanning over a period of nine days from March 18-26, the festival will present a series of rich and diverse productions of theatre, contemporary dance and sufi, classical, pop and fusion music. The idea is to give the audiences a chance to experience the arts and its impact in a range of spectacular spaces within the JKK premises. 
 
 "JKK is proud to present a variety of nationally acclaimed performances in art, music, dance and theatre to audiences in Jaipur. If Navras means to have new experiences, then it is our endeavor that the audiences in Jaipur enrich themselves in experiencing theatre, dance and music in new and diverse ways," said Pooja Sood, Director General of JKK. 
 
 The festival will open with a performance by noted singer Shubha Mudgal and her band Koshish. Equally at ease with popular music and fusion projects, Shubha Mudgal is one of India's acclaimed vocalists who has specialised in Hindustani classical music. 
 
 The days that follow will witness many artistic presentations including dance productions -Ganapati by Adishakti and Timeless by Aditi Mangaldas Dance Company; theatre productions - Kaumudi by Abhishek Majumdar and White Rabbit Red Rabbit by Nassim Soleimanpour; and music - sufi Kalam by Zila Khan and classical by Shruti Sadolikar and Vidya Shah. 
 
 The festival will also witness the premier of "Phool Kesula Phool," a theatre production commissioned by JKK and directed by Rajasthan's bright talent Rajendra Panchal. JKK will also be presenting "Tilchatteyki Diary," a play for children that was commissioned last summer. 
 
 In an attempt to introduce audiences to alternative viewing strategies, several experimental productions have also been invited to Navras. 
 
 There will also be an exhibition, "Women on Record" curated and designed by photographer Parthiv Shah on March 26. The exhibition will run in the Museum Galleries 2 and 3 till the end of April. 
 
 The culmination of Navras will also see the opening of the exhibition, "The Theatre of Alkazi" curated by Amal Allana and designed by Nissar Allana, on March 27, as part of the Rajasthan Divas Celebrations and also World Theatre Day. The exhibition will continue till the end of April in The Contemporary, JKK Museum Galleries. The exhibition is being supported by the Department of Tourism, Government of Rajasthan. 
 
 
