NEW DELHI: If you feel that the police are slow in handling your case, then they seem to have a valid reason for it.   had recently argued before lieutenant governor   that the slow progress in solving cases was due to lack of adequate number of  . Since 2012, while the cases being registered have gone up by 260%, the number of IOs has increased by only 12%.

 The police have, however, got a breather as the Union home ministry sanctioned more than 4,000 posts for investigating officers (IO) last year to take some load off the overburdened cops. The decision was taken after getting approval from the department of expenditure and finance ministry and has been made operational in two phases in 2016-17 and 2017-18.
 
 According to standard practice, IOs at police stations or specialised units have to complete investigations within 30 days of a case being registered and prepare the chargesheet. Each IO, usually of the rank of sub-inspector or inspector, is burdened with over 50 cases at a time. They either have to compromise on the probe quality or delay it for some time to clear out backlogs.
 
 Officers agree that the practice not only exhausts a policeman, but leads to extra hours of work, some stretching for days. “In incidents like murders and robberies, the IO has to work for hours to gather evidence physically leaving out all other probes he is engaged in,” said a police officer.
 
 In the   of December 2012, the investigators contacted external agencies to collate evidence of dentures and blood samples within a month to prepare a watertight chargesheet, which led to a landmark judgment. As per the plan, 635 graduate constables have undergone specialised training to investigate petty cases. Around 1,640 constables and head constables have been promoted under the special grade scheme and trained to handle cases.
 
 A total of 15,000 policemen have been trained in specialised courses, like scientific investigations, law of extradition and important case studies. DCPs and ACPs have also been trained to monitor the quality of the investigations.
 
 However, cops say that investigators require specialised support from external agencies. Cops have proposed setting up of 17 posts of assistant legal advisors and permission to investigators to seek help from chartered accountants, cyber experts and engineers. The police commissioner can be empowered to employ specialists for each case.
 
 
