KOLKATA: Probing into the  , the   has asked   to explain the amount she received from the   during the period she was employed by the Sudipta Sen-run company . The agency has sought more clarification after they stumbled upon “some mismatches“ in the documents Sen has already provided. The CBI is also looking for any apparent mismatch for payments made to   MPs Arpita Ghosh and Satabdi Roy .

 A few months ago, Aparna was asked to submit documents regarding the payments she received from the Saradha group. While she submitted the papers, officials stumbled upon some mismatches and have asked her to clarify. “We are looking into the expenditures of the group and tallying them with the amount she was getting from Saradha,“ said a CBI of ficial.
 
 Aparna could not be reached for a comment.
 
 Aparna joined the Saradha Group as an editor of the Ponzi group's women's magazine `Paroma'. She edited the magazine from December, 2011till April, 2013 -a year before the Saradha bubble burst. She was quizzed by the ED in August 2014 after the central agency started looking into the roles of those named in Sudipta's purpor ted letter to CBI. Aparna was interrogated on if she had any other role in the group's functioning while officiating the post of magazine editor.
 
 According to sources in the central agency , Aparna was getting a salary of Rs 7 lakh per month while she was editing the magazine.
 
 Meanwhile, in the Rose Valley Ponzi muddle, ED on Thursday opposed the bail plea of Shibamay Dutta at a special CBI court. He was arrested in September, 2015. Opposing the bail plea, ED lawyer Bhaskar Bannerjee argued Dutta, a former managing director of the company , was the person in charge of the affairs when the Rose Valley group issued debentures.Present at the court of Chinmay Chattopadhyay , Dutta's lawyer Biplab Goswami argued the debentures were issued within the group companies and that did not violate section 11 ( c ) of the Sebi Act. Later, the company had also paid Rs 10 lakh as penalty for that.
 
