KOLKATA: Leakage of water is likely to have caused the blast in the 20-tonne   at Metal & Steel Factory (MSF), Ishapore, on Saturday. The accident claimed two lives and left seven others injured. Water is used as a coolant in electric arc furnaces. In case water, in sufficient quantities, leaks into a  , a violent steam explosion is triggered. Though sources claimed that this was what caused the accident, the high-power fact finding team is yet to submit its report to the   (OFB).

 "It was an accident that occurred at the   at MSF. This was a modern furnace that was commissioned a year ago. Falguni Banerjee and Bablu Majumdar suffered nearly 90% burns and passed away on Sunday. Of the remaining seven, three are contractual workers and the remaining four permanent employees. They are recovering," a senior OFB official said.
 
 Accidents such as these are not uncommon in electric arc furnaces across the world, particularly at plants where their capacity is pushed to the limit. According to a source, things like minor leaks in the water "tube panels" are sometimes ignored. According to a section of OFB employees, basic safety norms were not followed and the furnace may not have been given the mandatory safety recess required. All furnaces are supposed to be rested for some time after a few hours of operations. Employees claimed that safety norms are sometimes ignored at this time of the year while meeting targets by March 31. The All India Defence Employees Federation (AIDEF) has written to the DGOF and chairman, OFB, urging him to instruct all units to follow safety norms stringently.
 
 MSF came into being in 1872 as part of the Gun & Shell Factory, Cossipore. Today, it meets demands of ferrous and non-ferrous material of all ordnance factories in the country. Keeping in mind the demand for metals of high strength coupled with superior toughness, MSF underwent modernisation at a cost of Rs 36.84 crore between 2009-10 and 2012-13. Employees, however, maintain that a lot still needs to be done to ensure safety.
 
