PATNA
  The crisis in the Grand Alliance deepened further on Friday when a senior   functionary said his party would wait for chief minister   to sack his deputy,  , over the FIR lodged by the CBI against   Prasad and other members of his family. This has fuelled speculation about the nature of the RJD’s response to any possible sacking of Tejashwi.
 
  “RJD decided to wait and see what Nitish does before Lalu went to Ranchi to appear before the CBI court in fodder scam cases on Thursday. Lalu, along with some key aides and senior RJD members, decided that they should wait for Nitish’s action,” an RJD functionary said on condition of anonymity. The RJD leader added that his organization was of the view that if Tejashwi steps down on his own, it would demoralize the party rank and file. It may lead to a general perception that Lalu and his family have accepted the allegations of corruption. It may tantamount to bowing under BJP pressure.
  
  “If Tejashwi is dropped, all 11 RJD ministers will also quit the government but the party will continue to support the government from outside. This will keep the alliance intact,” the leader said. He hoped that such a move would help Tejashwi earn sympathy of the people and the RJD would not be accused of breaking the alliance.
  
  The RJD leader hoped that such a move would help Tejashwi earn sympathy of the people and the RJD would not be accused of breaking the alliance.Lalu keeps saying he will protect the Mahagathbandhan in Bihar at any cost to fight the BJP and RSS as break-up with Nitish will severely damage the prospects of a grand alliance of all opposition parties at national level for 2019 general elections. Meanwhile, Congress president   Gandhi is in touch with both Lalu and Nitish to convince them not to take any extreme step, which could adversely affect the ruling alliance in Bihar.
  
  Sources said Bihar Congress president and education minister Ashok Choudhary also met Nitish in the afternoon. Nitish is expected to travel to New Delhi next week to address JD(U) workers.
  
  Amid the growing tension, Tejashwi ridiculed the reports of his resignation on Friday. “Bhunja khao, Mast raho,” Tejashwi tweeted in the afternoon after a local television channel flashed that the deputy CM had decided to quit. “Some media in the name of ‘utpaati (destructive) sources’ is running one-point programme of BJP ... I feel like laughing at it loudly,” Tejashwi said.
  
  The row over Tejashwi’s resignation started with an FIR lodged by the CBI on July 5 in which he has been accused of being part owner in the Lara (Lalu-Rabri) Projects LLP, which was allegedly transferred three acres of land near Saguna Mor in Patna in return for awarding contracts to run IRCTC-run hotels when his father Lalu was the railway minister.
