VISAKHAPATNAM: Even as AP director general of police (DGP) N Sambasiva Rao recently claimed that the Maoist numbers have dwindled specially after the major   at   in   area in Odisha in October last year, the CPI   are reportedly planning to set up a ‘Janatana Sarkar’ in the Andhra-Odisha Border.

 A   is a   set up by the Maoists who provide the people with facilities in education, health, security and other segments. For the benefit of the people, the banned outfit is also planning to set up hospitals in tribal pockets. 
 
 Despite losing ground in places like Palnadu and the South Andhra districts like Krishna and West Godavari in the last two decades, Maoists have till date managed to retain their hold in the AOB districts like East Godavari and Visakhapatnam. 
 
 According to sources, members of the division committee and red guerrillas have been continuously conducting meetings in the AOB villages. They are now telling people to send their wards to schools to be set up by them shortly and also bring the patients to hospitals set up by them, they added. 
 
 With the Maoists regrouping, security forces are on a high alert. “There are reports that new cadre has landed in the AOB. Maoists had already deployed some of the senior cadre from the Dandakaranya region in Chhattisgarh to AOB to recuperate from the losses of Ramaguda encounter,” a senior police officer told TOI 
 
 The sources said senior Maoist leader Jitender Reddy alias Krishna was recently seen in the Visakha agency. He may have been sent to the district to coordinate with the cadres and the public to rebuild the movement. Krishna was himself a former secretary of Galikonda Area Committee and has good knowledge of the agency areas. Along with him, Kakuri Pandanna, who was a former commander of Ramakrishna alias RK’s protection team, is also helping in regrouping in the area. 
 
 The Maoists have already appointed senior cadre Ajay as secretary of the Srikakulam-Koraput Division committee after the death of former secretary Chamala Krishnayya alias Daya in the Ramaguda encounter. 
 
 An expert in anti-naxal operations said Maoists are now practising Tactical Counter Offensive Campaign (TCOC). They have also deployed a single-man action team in AOB areas. Usually, action teams have three or more people, he added.
 
 
