Ghaziabad: Seeking clarity on how to go about paying the Ghaziabad Development Authority’s (GDA)  , residents of   condemned the GDA over the lack of Ganga water supply, the choking of the   and the bad condition of the roads.

 A case in point is Gaur Valerio, a residential society in Ahimsa Khand 2 in Indirapuram. Rajeev Munshi, a resident of Gaur Valerio, told TOI that the society’s RWA received a water and sewer charges bill for Rs 26 lakh in February whose payment is to be made by March 31.
 
 Munshi said the bill for the earlier arrears of Rs 18.6 lakh was issued to the society’s builder in 2016, at a time when the RWA did not exist. The builder apparently did not bother to pay the bill or to inform the RWA after it was formed a little after the earlier bill was issued.
 
 “This year the GDA has issued us a bill of Rs 26 lakh although we do not receive Ganga Jal supply and the sewerage system often gets choked. Why do we need to pay for non-existent services,” Munshi asked.
 
 Like Munshi, thousands of residents of group housing societies in Indirapuram face the serious problem with regard to GDA water and sewerage maintenance charges.
 
 The GDA is yet to hand over Indirapuram to the Ghaziabad Municipal Corporation (GMC) for maintenance, which is set to happen only after the Master Plan of the area is properly executed by the GDA. Till then, GDA will undertake all maintenance work in the area.
 
 In March 2014, the GDA was challenged by the Federation of AOAs at the Allahabad high court over the arbitrary manner in which the charges were being collected from residential societies. Subsequenlty, the case went to the Supreme Court.
 
 When asked, Chakresh Jain, executive engineer of GDA, said that GDA starts charging for maintenance the moment a plot is allotted to a builder and the charge is a quarter of the prevalent rate till the time of possession of flats. Jain said the flat owners were charged soon after they took possession of their flats. The current rate of the maintenance charge is Rs 3.20/sq ft, which is charged on the total area of the flat.
 
 
