KOLKATA: A   from Kolkata and 24 other Indian   have been marooned on the LPG tanker   off   in the United Arab Emirates for over three months now. On Sunday, they wrote an email to the Indian embassy in the UAE and back home, their family members have been continuously tweeting foreign minister Sushma Swaraj for help. But there has been no reply from any of the fronts.

 The 34,974-tonne ship, owned by Mumbai-based Varun Shipping, was arrested by authorities in the UAE over alleged non-payment for the use of a dry dock in Dubai in the past. The ship was detained by coast guards on June 17 after it entered UAE waters. 
 
 The authorities took away all documents belonging to the crew and demanded payment of several thousand dollars from the owners. Incidentally, this is the third time in as many years that vessels belonging to the company have been arrested after disputes regarding payment of dues. 
 
 According to Baruipur resident Sumantra Nath Bhaduri (40), coast guard officials took away passports, seaman’s books and the Continuous Discharge Certificates of the sailors and restricted their movement. The sailors have been forbidden from leaving the ship till dues are paid. With no proper food, drinking water or electricity on the ship and worst of all, no salaries for the last three months, the sailors have no clue when they can come home. 
 
 “We are suffering. There is not enough food or water for us to survive even two weeks. We want the Indian government to intervene and solve this crisis and help us get home,” Bhaduri, the chief engineer of the ship, told TOI over phone. 
 
 Bhaduri’s wife Manjari has been tweeting Sushma Swaraj. “I have heard she replies to tweets and takes action to save Indians stuck outside India. I want the government’s support to get my husband back.”
 
 The sailors are driven to frustration because they cannot step out of the port. The ship is tied to a jetty outside port, the only multi-purpose one on the eastern seaboard of the UAE. Head cook Soumitra Hajra, from Arambag in Hooghly, said: “How are we and our families expected to survive without pay? We have been asking for sign off to be sent to India but have been left stranded here.”
 
 The sailors were hired by Fleet Management, who recruited them at the ship. Sources said Fleet Management has dragged Varun Shipping to court asking them to pay off the dues to Dubai government so that the sailors can be freed. The amount involved was not available, and representatives of Varun Shipping and Fleet Management were unavailable for comment even after repeated attempts by TOI.
 
