PUNE: A   here on Tuesday directed the state prosecution to ensure that the original complainant in the case under the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act lodged against women’s rights activist Trupti   and   others, remains present in the court on July 17 for the hearing of their application for anticipatory bail. 

 Additional sessions judge A K Patil adjourned the matter on these terms without conceding the plea by defence lawyer Milind Pawar that the four accused be granted an ad   anticipatory bail till a final decision on their plea is taken. As such, the police can now arrest Desai and the three accused named in the FIR if they decide to do so. 
 
 Vijay Makasare of Shrirampur had lodged an FIR alleging that Desai, her husband, Prashant, brother-in-law, Satish, and her organisation Bhumata Brigade’s executive president Kantilal Gaware attacked him near Balewadi sports complex on Katraj-Dehu Road bypass around 11.30am on June 27. He alleged that they snatched his gold chain and Rs 27,000 while threatening and hurling casteist abuses on him. Makasare was a volunteer of Bhumata Brigade during the agitation for women’s right to enter the Shani Shingnapur temple.
 
 Additional public prosecutor Vilas Ghogare-Patil had opposed the plea, arguing that an amendment to the Atrocities Act in 2016 restrains the court from granting any   to an accused unless the complainant is given an opportunity to present his side in the case. 
 
 Ghogare-Patil told TOI on Tuesday, “Section 15-A of the Atrocities Act, which deals with the rights of victims and witnesses, provides that a victim or his dependent shall have the right to reasonable, accurate and timely notice of any court proceeding, including bail proceeding, and the special public prosecutor or the state government shall inform the victim about such proceeding.”
 
 “The Act further provides that a victim or his dependent shall be entitled to be heard at any proceeding under this Act, in respect of bail, discharge, release, parole, conviction or sentence of an accused or any connected proceedings of arguments and file written submission on conviction, acquittal or sentencing.” The sessions court took a cognisance of this requirement while directing presence of the complainant for next hearing.
 
 
