PUNE: The National Defence Academy has not seen a single   completing the stipulated two years’   at the helm since 2008.

 According to records, The National Defence Academy (NDA) got eight commandants, excluding the present incumbent, since 2008. It means the academy virtually got a new commandant every year. The former commandant of the  , Vice Admiral G Ashok Kumar, took over as the Deputy Chief of Naval Staff with effect from May 31, 2016.
 
 Former commandants of the NDA completing their full tenure stressed the trend was a cause for concern.
 
 The NDA is a premier joint training institute and centre for excellence for grooming junior leaders for the Indian armed forces. The appointment of its commandant is decided by the Integrated Defence Staff (IDS) headquarters, under the Chief of Staff Committee (CSC).
 
 A senior army officer, who served at the academy, told TOI on the condition of anonymity, “The NDA is known for its excellent tri-services training in the world and if it is not getting commandant who can spend two years is not a good sign for the armed forces. If the trend continues, no doubt, it will affect the future leadership of the armed forces.”
 
 Air Marshal   (retd), who served as the NDA commandant from December 1, 2006 to December 31, 2008, told TOI that on many occasions the academy’s commandant is pulled out because of operational requirements of the respective force.
 
 “However, the commandant should complete his tenure as he can play a pivotal role in grooming the future military leaders of the country by taking right decisions. Since I completed the full tenure, I can firmly say it is a decisive factor for the academy,” Randhawa said.
 
 Some of the former commandants and instructors who have served at the academy critcised the CSC for rotating commandants frequently and said it was a bad sign for the NDA’s functioning.
 
 Former Navy Chief Admiral Arun Prakash, who served as the NDA commandant from July 31, 1997 to March 19, 1999, said the foreign countries, including US, appoint the most senior and experienced officer at their training academy as the commandant.
 
 Admiral Prakash said, “Sadly, now they (officers and CSC) consider these postings as a parking slot. If finding a three-star officer is difficult, they can appoint the seniormost two-star officer as the commandant so that he can complete his stipulated period at the helm and bring some positive changes in the academy.”
 
 Lt Gen A K Chopra (retd), who was the NDA commandant from August 4, 2004 to November 30, 2006, said eight commandants in the last eight years was an unfortunate thing from the academy’s perspective.
 
 In an official reply to TOI’s queries over the NDA commandant’s tenure, the academy’s authorities said, “The tenure of the commandant as laid down is for two years. However, various exigencies of respective service can sometimes lead to a faster turnaround of the commandants. The incumbent commandants are more often than not due for upgrade to Commander-in- Chief (C-in-C)/Principal Staff Officer (PSO) in their respective service, which contributes to shorter tenures at times.”
 
 Responding specifically to a query why the academy was getting a new commandant almost every year since 2008, the NDA said, “The quicker turnaround/tenure of a commandant has no adverse effect on the functioning of the academy since the curriculum, methodologies and procedures at the NDA are time tested. There are generally very little and only evolutionary changes made unless the consequences of the same have been analysed. Further, the changes in policies/curriculum are to be ratified by the IDS, headquarters/Jawaharlal Nehru University.”
 
 
