PUNE: As many as   pertaining to the mismatch of voters’ names with their respective panels were received at the 15 ward offices across the city till Tuesday, election officials said.

 Most applications were received at Dhankawadi, followed by Kothrud 
 
 The 15 ward offices of   wore a busy look on Tuesday as anxious voters rushed to check their names in the voters’ list before the deadline ended. For over 42.24 lakh voters in the city, Tuesday was the last day for filing suggestion and objections on the panel-wise voters’ list to be used for the civic elections.
 
 The scene at the Tilak road ward office was chaotic since morning with a huge rush. Election officials said they had accepted over 50 applications from voters and leaders of political parties on Tuesday and most pertained to the listing of names in wrong panels.
 
 A political party worker who submitted a list of about 100 voters at the office claimed that the names were listed in neighbouring panel. “All the wrongly listed people are from   area and their names need to be shifted back to panel 33 from 34,” the worker said.
 
 “In civic elections every vote makes a huge difference. Candidates can face defeat if a few votes are lost for no reason. Wrong listing of names will hamper the equations,” a party leader explained.
 
 Similar complaints were received at almost all the offices across the city. The authorities will now study the objections raised by voters, initiate necessary changes and publish a final draft of electoral roll on January 21.
 
 A senior official from the election office pointed out that the review of the electoral roll was crucial this time because the PMC had taken up an exercise of redrafting list as per the new panel system. “This is for the first time that the civic body has adopted a panel system which will elect four representatives from each panel. The boundaries of earlier panel (2012 elections) have been redrafted which has also led to redrafting of voters’ list,” the official added.
 
 Election officials have started the scrutiny of applications and introduction of changes in genuine cases. In a recent complaint received at the Ghole Road election office, names of over 100 voters that were listed wrongly in Pune University-Wakdewadi panel, which were moved to   panel. The officers conducted a field visit to check the boundaries of panels, where it was found that the names were listed wrongly. 
 
