Six months after suspended   jailor   got his official residence locked and went incommunicado, the house was broken into by a team led by Thane tehsildar on Wednesday and all his personal belongings removed from the house.

 Among the stuff taken out of the house were Jadhav and his wife’s clothes, bags full of books and some bank documents. He has been given 15 days to collect his belongings.
 
 Jadhav was suspended on September 3 last year after a 31-year-old lady constable attached to the jail alleged he sexually harassed her. With her complaint, the constable had submitted recorded conversations with the officer, in which he could be heard putting pressure on her to meet him outside the jail premises.
 
 Jadhav left the jail the same day he was suspended but got forty people to move into his bungalow, thus preventing his successor Nitin Vayachal from taking possession of the property.
 
 When a complaint against Jadhav was registered at the Thane Nagar police station for bringing strangers into the jail premises and allowing them to squat on prison property, the occupants of the house left but not before locking the house and taking the keys with them. November onwards, several reminders were sent by Tehsildar Kishen Badane to Jadhav to vacate the house, but not only did he ignore the notices, he also stopped taking calls from the jail authorities.
 
 The final notice sent to him clearly said that the house would be broken into if he did not vacate it by April 11. The Tehsildar’s team waited till 7 pm on Wednesday for Jadhav to comply with the notice. But when he did not show up, the house was broken into in the presence of witnesses, Thane Nagar police personnel and the jail staff.
 
 Tehsildar Badane confirmed that the jailor’s house inside the prison premises was broken into. “In the presence of witnesses, we took possession of the house and removed all of Jadhav’s personal belongings.”
 
 Incumbent jailor Nitin Vayachal said the unusual step of breaking into the house was taken because Jadhav refused to heed several notices. “We have given him 15 days to collect his belongings,” he said.
 
