KOLKATA:  , UK’s most popular bookseller and stationer, stamped its footprint in Kolkata on Wednesday with the inauguration of its retail store at the   departure lounge. Over the next couple of weeks, several more stores are expected to open across various categories, offering a wide range of retail options to flyers travelling through the city.

 “This is the beginning of Kolkata airport’s quest to become a more vibrant place for travellers. The stores at the airport will offer a wide collection in apparel, jewellery, leather shoes, bags and accessories, cosmetics, sunglasses and travel luggage and accessories,” said airport director Atul Dikshit. 
 
 Till now, retail opportunities have been very sparse at the airport, unlike Delhi or Mumbai where passengers can spend hours windowshopping at the terminal.
 
 WHSmith stores are present at 150 airports across 25 countries. In India, it is already functional at Delhi, Hyderabad and Cochin airports. It retails newspapers, magazines, books and impulse products for people on the move. 
 
 In Kolkata, the stores will be spread over 14,000 sq ft at both arrival and departure sections in the domestic and international wing of the integrated terminal. The   ( ) that manages Kolkata airport had originally advertised for 1,050 sq metre, or 11,300 sq ft, but the franchisee sought 25% additional space to take the retail area to 1,310 sq metre, or 14,100 sq ft.
 
 The biggest retail space over 780 sq metre (8,400 sq ft) will be in the domestic security hold area, followed by international security hold where 395 sq metre (4,200 sq ft) has been earmarked for retail. The retail area in the arrival area of domestic and international wings will be much smaller, at 135 sq metre (1,450 sq ft).
 
 Travel News Services India Pvt Ltd, the master franchisee appointed for Kolkata airport, joined hands with Flemingo Retail Pvt Ltd to float a company —   — that has roped in various brands. 
 
 The duty-free section is also being enhanced to offer passengers wider choice and better shopping experience. Spread across four locations in the international wing, the duty-free retail space will add up to 605 sq metre (6,500 sq ft). While there will be one store of 170 sq metre (1,800 sq ft) in security hold departure lounge, there will be three stores near the luggage claim conveyor belts in the arrival hall aggregating 435 sq metre (4,700 sq ft).
 
 
