PANAJI: A report of the   into the   in Canacona that killed 31 workers exactly three years ago, continues to gather dust, with the government yet to make its findings public, sources said.

 With the Central Election Commission poised to announce the date of the assembly election shortly, it is unlikely that the 150-odd page report submitted in July 2014 by retired IAS officer V K Jha and his team into the state’s worst building disaster will be put in the public domain.
 
 The then chief minister,  , had initiated the inquiry under Section 3(1) of the Commission of Inquiry Act, 1952, after the under-construction building in one of the blocks of the complex collapsed, taking a heavy toll of workers’ lives.
 
 The building was interlinked with four others through a common staircase. This affected the stability of the other buildings and one of them had been razed due to lack of access for fire and emergency services vehicles.
 
 A total of 50 witnesses, including Canacona MLA and sports minister Ramesh Tawadkar, TCP officials and others had been examined by the commission during the course of the inquiry to assess the damage and fix responsibility for the tragic incident. The BJP government was under pressure to arrest project promoters Jagdish Kumar Sehgal and Pradeep Singh Birring, who evaded the police for quite some time. Tawadkar, who had a residence and flat in another building, was criticized for overlooking the illegalities, statements that he denied.
 
 “Not publicizing the report is another act like the U-turns the BJP government has become known for. It knows to fool the people and this report resembles many other issues that have been probed and forgotten,” Dayanand Pagi, Canacona resident and former upadhyaksha of South Goa zilla panchayat, said.
 
 The government had suspended and later reinstated Prakash Bandodkar, deputy town planner, town and country planning (TCP) department, and Ajay Desai, municipal engineer,  , in connection with procedural and administrative lapses in the tragedy.
 
 The Jha Commission report was also aimed at improving mechanisms used in constructions in the future. S T Puttaraju, chief town planner, TCP department, stated that recommendations made in the report have been implemented.
 
 “The aspect of structural stability and responsibility by a professional structural engineer is insisted upon while issuing the completion certificate for high-rise buildings in the prescribed format,” he said.
 
 In Canacona, the procedural lapse lay in issuing an occupancy certificate without assessing the stability of the five-storeyed buildings. A couple of other issues were also taken up, but the matter of making the findings public is likely to hang fire. 
 
 
