DEOLALI: The   has resolved to request the district collector to transfer the 54 acres of land currently with the collectorate to it for better infrastructure and improved civic amenities. 

 The land, which comes under the limits of the Deolali Cantonment Board, has been a long-pending issue and is currently being used by civilians. It spreads from Lam Road to Anuradha Talkies and from Kargil Gate to Mumbai-Agra highway. “If the board gets hold on the land, we can develop it and provide civic amenities to the residents,” said  , vice-president of the Deolali Cantonment Board. 
 
 A number of projects related to infrastructure development and the much awaited civic amenities was sanctioned during Thursday’s general meeting. As Deolali has been included in the Smart Cantonment project on the lines of the Smart City, the board has sanctioned several beautification works for the town as well. 
 
 “We are planning beautification work in all seven squares in the Deolali area. Our basic idea is to spread social messages such as ‘Beti Bachao’ and ‘Jai Jawan Jai Kisan’ through the beautification work,” Mojad said. 
 
 In another move, the board has decided to scrap the special committees for finance, building and health approvals. “Now, all necessary permissions will be granted in the Cantonment Office only. This will put a check on the corruption, which used to be noticed to get permissions at the committee-level,” the Deolali Canontment Board vice-president said. 
 
 Among the major works that got approval on Thursday were a recreation centre for senior citizens in the   area and garden renovation. Besides, at least 25 new benches will come up at select locations in each ward for residents. Ward number one will see a green gym, lawn and a dome. The   will get a separate team of sanitary officials. 
 
 The meeting also gave its nod to the construction of welcome gates at Bhagur Naka, Pandhurli Road and the Lahawit Road entry points of Deolali Cantonment. Rainwater harvesting projects will come up at the Cantonment office, schools, library and hospital building, while a protection wall will be installed on the military land in ward number two to keep encroachers away. The general meeting also gave its nod to a reading room on 2,400 sq ft area on the second floor of the Deolali public library. 
 
