ALWAR: Kishori is one of the 20 villages in Alwar where fear and tension have tightly gripped life. The hustle bustle in the village lanes and the routine chaupal meetings are missing for the past one week. Rather, villagers prefer to stay locked in their homes as they were worried that a leopard might be on the prowl. 

 “Our village and others nearby come to a standstill at 7 pm. Shops close down early. Doors are tightly shut and nobody even thinks of coming out alone,’’ said Kallulal, one of the villagers.
 
 Kishori is a village located 3 km away from the spot where a leopard attacked a senior citizen on Sunday. Residents here move at night out in groups of four to six persons and that too only if going out cannot be avoided.
 
 “Who would want to risk his or her life, but most of us are farmers and as our farms get a power supply at night, we are forced to go out. It is risky but we have no choice. At such times, we go out in small groups,’’ said Chandrakala, another resident of the village.
 
 Four deaths in the past seven days have sent shock waves across the villages in the periphery of the  . The forests have about 60 leopards and in the recent past, incidents of leopards attacking the villagers have been on a rise, raising a concern. 
 
 In the past three months, six villagers, including four women, have died in leopard attacks. These attacks have also left at least six persons injured and incidents of attack on cattle too have been plenty during this time.
 
 Till a week ago, it was common for the villagers to gather post-dinner for ‘ratri-chaupals’. “Nobody gathers for the evening meetings. The villages were a deserted look once it gets dark,’’ said  , a shop-keeper at Bamanwas, another village. 
 
 Agarwal, who often kept his shop opened till 9 pm, now shuts it down by 7 pm.
 
 The incidents have forced the authorities at the Sariska Tiger Reserve to direct villagers not to venture out alone in the dark and avoid going to the farms late in the night or early in the mornings.   have also placed traps at over 40 locations to catch the leopards that stray into the villages. 
 
 “Warnings have been issued on loud speakers against going out alone. We have suggested that the villagers should move in groups even during the day. We have paid a compensation of Rs 2 lakh each to the kin of the two women who were recently killed in the attacks. Since 2010, compensation to the tune of Rs 60 lakh has been paid in such incidents,’’ said  , field director, Sariska.
 
