BOKARO: Chief minister   on Saturday said that there is no need for   (JMM) any more as a separate state has been formed and said that the need of the hour was development. 

 “The movement for a separate state that was spearheaded by JMM has ended. Jharkhand is now an independent state of the country. What is needed now is development,” said Das.
 
 Das also took a dig at opposition parties accusing them of adopting ‘divide and rule policy’ to gain political mileage. “They never work for development,” he added. 
 
 The chief minister was addressing party members at the state executive body meeting of   of   at   here. 
 
 “Opposition parties have always exploited the tribal community members by politicking in the name of Schedule Tribe, Schedule Caste and others. I have visited tribal-dominated villages and saw how opposition parties have never worked for development, employment and education there,” said Das.
 
 The interaction between Das and the members is seen as an effort to strengthen party base in tribal community. “I want you to go to the people and make them realise how opposition parties have played with the sentiments of tribal community,” Das said at the meeting.
 
 He also said that in the past 16 years the tribal people remained poor while political leaders from tribal community became richer. He asked the leaders of opposition parties to stop misleading people of the state by blaming the BJP government of snatching their land. “I challenge those leaders to give a single evidence of any land snatched by the government,” he added. 
 
 Das stressed BJP is working for the development of tribal community and their culture. “The BJP government is working to develop all the sarna sthal (religious places) of tribal people across the state in the next two years.” 
 
 Das said, “Jharkhand, which was earlier known as corrupt state, is now getting a facelift with the success of Momentum Jharkhand. The state government is focused on providing education to and development of tribal people.”
 
