KOLHAPUR: Left wing organizations, along with social activists from the Kolhapur district, organized a fresh rally in protest against the delay in the   investigation on Saturday. 

 The protesters gathered under the banner of Shahid Comrade Govind   Samata Sangharsha Samiti around 3 pm at Dasara chowk and marched to the district collectorate shouting slogans against the state government over the delay in the investigation. 
 
 A delegation led by   met district collector   and handed over a memorandum to him.
 
 Megha, daughter-in-law of Govind Pansare, said that two years have passed since Pansare was murdered, but police have managed to arrest only two suspects so far. Also, there is no progress in the investigation, she said. 
 
 "Whenever we meet police officials, they say that they are investigating the case. They never reveal the progress report of the investigation, stating that it may leak some important information. We are now of the opinion that no progress is being made in this case and police are not serious about it," she said.
 
 "We have already raised objections on the pressure tactics used by the lawyers of the accused and registered complaints with police, who have not taken any action against them. We have also asked to the state government to declare the absconding suspects as wanted, but it did not take any action," said Megha. 
 
 According to Megha, the investigation officer is changed at every interval and the activists' demand to hand over the case to a dedicated team for investigation is also pending with the government. 
 
 The district collector assured the delegation that he would convey the message to the state government and also ask the police department to communicate with the left wing organisations regarding the progress in the investigation of the case.
 
 On February 16, 2015 Pansare and his wife were shot at by two motorbike-borne assailants in Kolhapur. While his wife survived, the CPI leader died at a Mumbai hospital on February 20, 2015.
 
 The special investigation team (SIT) probing the murder case has filed a a supplementary chargesheet against Sanatan Sanstha member   and named him the second accused after Sameer Gaikwad.
 
 Tawade was arrested in the murder case on September 2 while Gaikwad was arrested from Sangli on September 16 last year. The police had filed a chargesheet against Gaikwad on December 14 last year. 
 
 
