AURANGABAD: The work of   on the 17km route from  , which is nearing completion, is all set to pave foundation for goods and passenger   and the region in the near future. 

 While around 35-40 trains pass currently on the single line route, the train movement is expected to shoot up to 80-90 trains per day due to the proposed doubling of track on the entire stretch. 
 
 Initiated in November 2015, the work in progress is a part of doubling work on a total 81km route from Parbhani to Mudkhed. The double track on Parbhani-Mirkhel is scheduled to get commissioned from June 5. 
 
 “By completing one-third of the total track doubling work, we will be able to run more number of trains. Operations of goods and passenger trains using single rail track has limitations in the number of trains on the route and related constrains will be eased out considerably,” authorities from South Central Railway, said. 
 
 The doubling of track, authorities said, would also minimise detention of many trains to facilitate line-crossing for other trains during scheduled journeys. 
 
 A K Sinha, divisional railway manager for Nanded division, said, “Punctuality of trains would go up due to doubling of track.” 
 
 “The line-crossing and related detentions will be avoided at around 15 places on a track between Parbhani- Mirkhel. The time saved would ensure timely running of trains and further synchronised train operations,” he said.
 
 Once the Parbhani- Mirkhel doubling work is completed, railway authorities will undertake similar work on the 9km route between Mugat and Mudkhed. The work has already been sanctioned by the Railway Board and will be completed by end of March 2018. 
 
 Omprakash Varma of advocacy group Marathwada Railway Vikas Samiti, said, “The railway authorities should expedite track doubling on the entire 81km route from Parbhani to Mudkhed.”
 
 “The Railway Board finally heard the long-pending demand of track doubling work between Parbhani and Mudkhed and the work was initiated a couple of years ago. The railway authorities should increase the speed of work to ensure better rail connectivity for the region,” he said.
 
 Varma also said that SCR authorities should press more long-distance trains into service once the completion of track doubling work takes place on major portion of the proposed route.
 
 The SCR has already announced temporary cancellation of three trains, partial cancellation of five trains and changing in timings of three other trains for short-term due to the doubling of   
 
