KOLHAPUR: The Maharashtra   ( ) has selected Sambhajinagar bus stand in the city for the second phase of  .

 The MSRTC is going to develop 13 modern bus ports in the state, including Sambhajinagar bus stand. The MSRTC has selected the Borivali, Panvel, Shivajinagar(Pune), Solapur, Nashik, Aurangabad, Akola, Nagpur, Nanded in first phase of development. The corporation will develop the Sangli, Dhule, Jalgaon, Kolhapur bus stands in the second phase. 
 
 The availability of land is the main reason of selection for bus port. If it developed as bus port, Sambhajinagar bus stand will relieve the pressure on  . It will also help to reduce the traffic congestions and air pollution in the city.
 
 State transport minister Diwakar Raote said, “The state government has decided to develop the bus stand as bus ports like airports. Kolhapur has been selected in the second phase of project. It will be developed as per the international standards.”
 
 The bus port will be equipped with all modern amenities including commercial complex, passengers amenities like rest rooms, passengers lobby, bus depot parking area. There will be separate arrival and departure gates. 
 
 Depot manager of Sambhajinagar bus stand B B Naik said, “The bus stand is located on the outskirts of the city. We have less traffic of vehicles and passengers footfall compared to the Central Bus Stand (CBS) Kolhapur. The total area of the bus stand is 52,200 square meters. We handle 460 ferries of buses every day.” 
 
 At the same time, the CBS handles 1,300 ferries every day. State transport buses lead to congestion and traffic jams in the core part of the city because of heavy load at CBS. If the stand developed, it will help to reduce the traffic congestion due state transport buses, Naik said.
 
 Abhjit Bhosale, assistant public relation officer, MSRTC, Mumbai, said, “The primary survey of the Sambhajinar bus stand has been carried out. Once the final survey is completed, tenders will floated. We have welcomed international bidders for the developments of the bus ports. It would add feather in the cap of Kolhapur.”
 
 
