BENGALURU: The issue of political interference in police transfers took an interesting turn on Thursday after a complaint was filed against chief minister   with the Lokayukta. The CM has been charged with abusing his position by effecting transfers of police officers on the basis of recommendation letters issued by politicians.

 In the complaint lodged by   of   Police Mahasangha, it has been alleged that the CM had effected police transfers by violating the Supreme Court’s 2006 judgment in the Prakash Singh case, wherein state governments had been directed to constitute a Police Establishment Board to deal with transfers of cops. The apex court directive was aimed at breaking the politician-cop nexus with regard to transfers and selective postings in the department.
 
 Before approaching the Lokayukta,   had filed a complaint with the   (ACB) on May 5, 2016, demanding action against ministers who have issued recommendation letters to police officers and against the CM for issuing posting orders based on the letters. However, the ACB rejected the complaint citing lack of prima facie evidence and maintained the transfers were effected for administrative reasons. 
 
 Subsequently, a writ petition was filed in the high court. Shashidhar had submitted 167 recommendation letters issued by the CM and 27 ministers between 2014 and 2016. But the court too disposed of the petition on February 1, 2017 and gave Shashidhar an option of approaching the Lokayukta court.
 
 In the complaint submitted to Upa Lokayukta Justice Subhash B Adi, Shashidhar has listed the director general and inspector general of police (DG&IGP) as the case witness. He has alleged that political interference in police postings has been rampant in the state and the Police Establishment Board (PEB) has almost been made defunct. Going by the SC directive, the transfers effected on the basis of recommendation letters are “illegal” and this is resulting in “collusive corruption”, he has claimed.
 
 The chief minister’s office refused to comment on the issue. However, sources in the CMO maintained: “The court has already disposed of the petition. We don’t know what the complainant’s motive is. In fact, he is the same person who had earlier been arrested for trying to instigate a rebellion in the police force.”
 
