JAIPUR: Six children were killed and 25 others were injured when a  , in which they were travelling, overturned in   district on late Saturday night.

 The accident took place at 10.30 PM when, the members of Bairwa community were headed to Khanpur village in Khandar tehsil to attend a community wedding function. The tractor trolley overturned near Lahsoda area in which 15-year-old Priyanka died on the spot, other children were rushed to the hospital but they succumbed to injuries on their way to the hospital.
 
 The minors have been identified by the Rawanjana Dungar police station as – Shivani (8), Hasina (5), Vishakha (3), Bhavna (8) and Manish (12). They all were resident of Sawai Madhopur ."The children were rushed to the hospital in ambulances and other vehicles, however, they had sustained severe head injuries as the trolley had turned turtle and smashed on them. They died while on their way to the hospital,” Hari Lal, head of Lahsoda police check post told TOI over phone.
 
 Kastur Verma, station house officer of Rawanjana Dungar police station told TOI that about 25 people were injured in the accident including a dozen women. “The trolley was affixed to the tractor, near a steep turn in Lahsoda, the tractor overturned as it was driven in a high speed, the victims were all resident of nearby villages in Sawai Madhopur district and were on their way to Khanpur to attend a mass wedding which was organised by the Bairwa community,” he said.
 
 The police said that parents of Priyanka, Bhavna and Manish sustained serious injuries and are currently undergoing the treatment at a district hospital. “The victims were identified later in the night, on Sunday morning we sent their bodies for the autopsy at the hospital,” the police official said, adding that bodies were handed over to the families on Sunday morning.
 
 “We will register a case against the driver under section 304 A (Causing death by negligence) of IPC. The statements of the injured have also been recorded,” Verma told TOI.
 
 Meanwhile, state chief minister   said on twitter that she has instructed the district administration to provide financial assistance and all possible aid to victims and their families, “Deeply disturbed by the news of the tragic   in Sawai Madhopur. my heart goes out to the families of the innocent victims,” she said.
 
