BENGALURU: City police commissioner Praveen Sood on Wednesday said that a case will be registered against cab aggregator Ola as it was found that it allegedly hid information from police in the case pertaining to the sexual assault on a professional singer off   by a cabbie last week.

 Sood was talking on the sidelines of a function.
 
 Bengaluru police, who are investigating a complaint of molestation by the singer inside an Ola cab on April 28, had found that the accused driver was impersonating the original driver-partner assigned to run the trip. After the incident, the accused and the cab owner allegedly tried to replace the original driver-partner’s name in Ola records.
 
 Acting on the complaint, police first picked up the driver-partner of the cab,  . The driver-partner said he had stopped running the cab since February and the owner, Navin Rajput, had employed another driver. Police then picked up   and the culprit driver,  , 25. They said, Rajput and Khan had tried to get the records with Ola changed and replace Ravi Kumar’s name with someone else’s.
 
 Police had on Tuesday said they are investigating Ola authorities over alleged attempts by the accused to destroy evidence. A day later, Sood said, “What I have learnt from the officers is that Ola or the owner of the car didn’t inform us about the driver’s impersonation. The owner had also visited the Ola office after the incident. So, we’ll be taking action against Ola.”
 
 Meanwhile, police have taken into custody Imran Khan, the driver who allegedly molested the woman. Apart from further interrogation, cops are also going through the available digital evidence. A senior police officer said that the movement data in the cab’s GPS and call records of both parties have been collected and teams are sifting through them. 
 
 Police sources also said that the accused had claimed that he hadn’t molested the woman, but had a verbal altercation with her as she was drunk and wasn’t able to give proper drop location.
 
 Sood, however, said the case remains one of molestation, despite the driver’s claim. Police are taking the woman’s version with highest credibility and investigation will follow based on her complaint, unless contradicting evidence surfaces.
 
 “As part of the investigation, all evidence will be evaluated. At the moment, there’s no evidence to disbelieve the woman’s complaint,” said Sood. 
 
 Ola didn’t respond to multiple calls.
 
