Once known for being a major   producer in the country,   has witnessed a   of the   in the past decade. The area of sugarcane in the state has fallen from 39, 12,000 hectares in 2006-2007 to 23,73,000 hectares in 2016-2017, registering a 41% dip. While the shrinkage in cultivation area has been attributed to  , farmers and researchers say unsatisfactory sugarcane price fixed by the government,   and rising labour costs have also contributed to it.

 Tamil Nadu now has less than 5% of its arable area under sugarcane cultivation. Data recently released by the Union ministry of agriculture shows that sugarcane cultivation in the state has been consistently falling since 2006-2007, except in 20122013 when the area increased by 10,000 hectares. The acreage registered a fall the very next year. The severe drought that hit the state last year is expected to have worsened the situation.
 
 A survey conducted by the Sugarcane Breeding Institute in February , estimates the area under sugarcane cultivation to have come down by 30%-40% across the state. “One of the main reasons is the gradual decrease in the amount of rainfall,“ says Bakshi Ram, director of Sugarcane Breeding Institute, Coimbatore. “The quantity and quality of the yield has also been deteriorating because a majority of the farmers continue to use only the CO86032 variety (of sugarcane) that was released in 2000. Using a less disease-resistant variety increases the incidence of diseases in the crop, leading to a low cultivation rate,“ he adds. “While farmers using drip irrigation have survived, others have incurred losses.“ Tamil Nadu's average yield is around 108 tonnes per hectare, but many farmers do not achieve it, he adds.
 
 Farmers say the cost and complications in cultivating sugarcane have also escalated. “In western Tamil Nadu, the labour costs are higher than the southern part,“ says Ambikapathy , a farmer who supplies sugarcane to Amaravathy Sugars and now to Bannari Amman Sugars.“It costs us around `700 to harvest one tonne of crop which is exclusive of maintenance costs, fertilisers and electricity. We are hardly left with `40,000 per acre in a year when the rain is good,“ he adds.
 
 Another menace are wild boars who often destroy crops, says Ambikapathy. Due to recurring losses many farmers took to cultivating short term crops like pulses, millets and even banana last year, he adds.
 
 Unsatisfactory minimum fixed price of sugarcane has also discouraged many farmers from cultivating the crop. “The advantage of sugarcane cultivation lies in the fact that it gives us an assured market and promises us that prices will not drop sharply . But many companies do not give us the whole fixed price, which is what prompted me to set up my own sugar crushing factory and sell sugar in the market instead of cane,“ says Karuppusamy, a farmer from Sathyamangalam.
 
