NAGPUR: Even as AICTE refuses to grant recognition to ME (Research) course run by engineering colleges affiliated to  , the latter continues to run it illegally.   had first exposed about NU running this illegal course, sans AICTE recognition on December 2, 2012, after receiving many complaints from the students.

 The matter again came to fore after a girl was denied admission to PhD in one of the leading IITs. She was asked to provide the exact marks and percentage, as NU awards grades for this course. When she approached NU, the exam section officials refused any help stating that no such provision existed.
 
 This course is primarily being run by private colleges by allegedly charging hefty fees from the students. To their advantage, there is no examination and students need to submit only a thesis. On other hand, regular ME/MTech students had to attend regular classes and also appear in exams for as many as 16 subjects during two-year duration.
 
 The students told TOI that they were allegedly being fleeced by private colleges. Many of them were categorically refused admissions by the top institutions for pursue higher courses.
 
 NU officials pointed out that whenever the issue was raised, the top brass, including VC and pro-VC, assured to close the course. “However, none of them dared to do so, as politicians owing those colleges put immense pressure on the two,” said sources.
 
 The colleges raked in the moolah through this course as there was no examination. Even the new administrative under VC SP Kane took decision to close the course last year, but it wasn’t implemented till date.
 
 While admitting that the course didn’t have AICTE recognition, Kane told TOI that they would be closing its admissions from the academic session commencing in June. “The decision to close it was taken after the academic session started. So we couldn’t do it abruptly,” he said.
 
 When asked on why the course was still being continued to run sans apex body’s recognition, he said the students were given a fair idea before they took admissions and they decided to pursue it at their own risks. “It was being run in many universities. Even those pursuing it were not regular students as all of them were doing jobs,” the VC said. 
 
 The director of   Neeraj Khaty defended NU’s move in not providing percentage. “We’re unable to fulfil the girl’s demand. The course is in existence even before AICTE was formed. The passed out students are working with organizations like   and LIT,” he told TOI.
 
 Officials added that ME (Research) was like regular PhD where examiners conduct viva-voce and other exams. “Entire procedure is just like PhD, except that it’s a master’s degree of two years that could be stretched till five years as per the candidate’s ability to research. ”
 
