LUCKNOW: The first signs of trouble in the   came from Kanpur. Shortly after announcing their tie-up and denying that this was an “alliance of convenience,“ Congress vice president   and   visited Kanpur to address a rally in Maharajpur assembly constituency .

 Both Congress and SP had announced their candidates, but it was decided that former Congress MP Rajaram Pal would contest and SP nominee Aruna Tomar would withdraw her candidature.But Tomar didn't. On the day Rahul and Akhilesh campaigned in Kanpur, Rajaram Pal was on stage as the alliance's official candidate.
 
 Two days later, Kannauj MP Dimple Yadav and Rajya Sabha MP Jaya Bachchan reached Maharajpur. This time, they campaigned for SP nominee Aruna Tomar. The confusion within the alliance persists.
 
 And the tremors are being felt as far as the Gandhi strongholds of Amethi and Rae Bareli. Amethi goes to polls on February 27.When Akhilesh came to Amethi, where the SP and Congress are engaged in a “friendly fight“ between SP's Gayatri Prajapati and Congress' Ameeta Sinh, Akhilesh did not 'officially' campaign for Prajapati, charged with raping a woman. While Prajapati was told to stay away from the stage, Akhilesh also urged people to vote, not for the contesting `Rani' Ameeta Sinh, but for the Samajwadi cycle.Local voters says the signals are confusing. “After announcing the gathbandhan, both parties fielded their candidates. More than the voters, it has left the workers completely confused, not knowing who to pitch for,“ said Suraj Kumar, a booth level worker of the Congress in Kanpur.
 
 SP and Congress candidates are also taking on each other, along with other political opposition, in Rae Bareli's Sareni and Unchahar seats. And there are other seats as well, where SP and Congress candidates are head to head despite the alliance. In the state capital's Lucknow Central seat, for instance, Congress' Maroof Khan remained in the contest despite orders from the party high command to withdraw against his SP counterpart and minister Ravidas Mehrotra.
 
 If the SP leadership has campaigned for its nominees on the seats where it is headed for a friendly fight, the Congress has, so far, been more cautious in its approach to the alliance. On the one hand, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, credited with being the architect of the alliance, has stayed away from campaigning in Amethi and Rae Bareli citing personal reasons, on the other, Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi will also come home to Amethi on Thursday to campaign for Ameeta Sinh.
 
 Local Congressmen, however, are attempting to find a deeper political significance. “On some seats, to field candidates from both camps is a well-thought decision; it is because of the poll arithematic and to cut into the opposition votes on the basis of local caste considerations,“ said a Congress leader in Amethi district.
 
