INDORE: Crime Branch police on Saturday arrested two persons for throwing acid on a 38-year-old woman after she refused to give in to their sexual advances in Banganga area.

 One of the accused   (19), was arrested from Indore while the main accused, Nepal Singh (28), was arrested from Arniya Kala village in Shajapur district after a long chase.
 
 The incident took place on Friday around 3:30 pm when the victim was on her way to a plastic factory for work when the accused accosted her on   road in the morning.
 
 He was allegedly enraged by the woman’s refusal to give in to his sexual advances following which he and his friend attacked her. He threw acid on the woman inflicting injuries on her face and torso.
 
 “As soon as we were told by the woman about the accused, a manhunt was launched and police teams followed the man to Dewas, Maksi and Shajapur before he was arrested,” Avdhesh  , superintendent of police east told TOI. He added that the man had taken shelter at his relatives’ house on Friday night.
 
 The accused was arrested and brought to Indore where he claimed during interrogations that he had given Rs 70,000 to the woman for her daughter’s wedding and she was not returning it. He also wanted to maintain physical relations with her. But when she insulted him, he planned to kill her.
 
 It also came to light that Nepal was a habitual offender. He did not have good relations with his wife and used to eve-tease random girls. “Cases of eve-teasing and loot are registered against the accused at Banganga and Shajapur police stations,” said Goswami.
 
 “A case under section 307 (attempt to murder) and other relevant sections under the IPC was registered against the accused and both of them were arrested,” he said.
 
 Meanwhile, police also registered a case against a factory owner from where the accused procured the acid and used it to hurt the woman.
 
 “We also conducted a drive in the city on Saturday in Banganga, Palasia and Vijay Nagar area where eight persons were arrested for illegally selling it,” Goswami told TOI.\
 
