KOLKATA: The health department committee set up to probe the allegations against   spoke to Sanjay Roy’s widow Ruby at   on Wednesday. After hearing Ruby for more than three hours, the six-member committee suggested her to submit the statement in writing by Thursday. The police, on the other hand, sought   footage and details of treatment from Apollo.

 “The committee heard my complaints against Apollo patiently. There is nothing new for me to add. I have been assured of justice,” said Ruby while leaving Swasthya Bhawan. The committee has already got Apollo hospital’s statement. The committee will sit again on Thursday to compare the two statements and find out the discrepancies, if any. 
 
 “We are also expecting the post-mortem report by Thursday. This will help us in our probe. We are looking for evidences on all the points, which include delay in starting treatment and conducting necessary investigative tests, billing part and delay in discharging the patient for shifting to SSKM,” said a member of the probe team. 
 
 The inquiry committee, headed by Dr Partha Pratim Mukherjee, general medicine department head at  , has specialists in cardiac anesthesia, radiology, surgery, gastroenterology and special secretary in the health department. 
 
 “The committee has been asked to submit the report on its findings within a week. So we expect it to be ready by Saturday,” said health secretary RS Shukla.
 
 The probe into the death of Roy picked up pace on Wednesday with the Phoolbagan police asking the hospital authorities for specific documents and footage that they think will be crucial for the probe. “We have asked them to comply with our notice on an immediate basis,” said joint CP (crime) Vishal Garg. Apollo is expected to comply as early as Wednesday.
 
 Among fresh documents sought were a detailed list of all doctors, nurses and support staff who were involved in Roy’s treatment. Interestingly, the cops have even asked for the CCTV footage of several rooms of Apollo where Roy was treated. Most importantly, cops have sought footages of the Apollo lobby where Roy’s family was asked to make the necessary payments.
 
 Earlier, on Monday, hours after the FIR was lodged, Phoolbagan police — under direct guidance from Lalbazar — had decided to ask for relevant papers from the hospital that pertained to medical prescriptions and bills. A notice was sent on Tuesday.
 
 Sources said there were two reasons behind this move. One, Lalbazar wants to send out the signal that while medical negligence will remain at the top of their agenda, the focus at present will be on the “extortion” charge under   section 384. Two, the cops want to ensure they have enough evidence in hand before they summon general surgeon Dr Shyamal Sarkar to record his statement. “We are at a very early stage of investigation. We do have a plan on how to proceed in this case,” said DC (Eastern Suburban) Debasmita Das.
 
 Cops will be going through the statements of a few other witnesses, including hospital officials and Roy’s family members, before they decide on whether to summon Dr Sarkar for questioning. The FIR mentions the name of only one doctor.
 
 Sources said the notice will be requisitioned under CrPC section 91. “The papers will relate to Roy’s medical history and will include copy of the bills. In addition, we have asked the authorities to send us the rate chart. However, most importantly, the cops said it was the documents related to the final night of Roy at the hospital that they have requisitioned. “Our focus is on the last few hours that the family spent at the hospital before Roy was shifted to SSKM,” said an officer.
 
 
