KOLHAPUR: For the  , Mumbai and adjoining cities planning a weekend trek to   (STD) is just a click away.

 “STD will be launching the mobile   soon. The application will be named after Bhramanti which means wandering in a good sense,” said Clement Ben chief conservator of forests and field director, Sahyadri tiger reserve.
 
 “We have started this initiative to serve the adventure enthusiasts and youths across the city. I am sure this will attract a lot of techies, bankers who often complain about the mundane city life. Going for a trek to the Sahyadri Tiger Reserve during the weekends will be rejuvenating for both professionals and students.”
 
 “The tiger reserve is a biological hot spot located amidst the Western Ghats also known as Sahyadri locally. The benevolent range engulfs a range of endangered and rare species. We want to promote trekking along the route to create sensitivity towards eco-tourism.”
 
 Of 15 routes, the tiger reserve officials have selected to start trekking along four routes in the buffer zone.
 
 “We have official permission to start trekking for 15 routes but we have selected four routes at the initial level,” he added.
 
 The mobile application, Bhramanti will have varied information regarding the flora and fauna mostly found on these routes. “One can even book the trekking plan with us and our department will take care of food and lodging. The residential arrangement will be made far away from the core tiger reserve. Trekkers will get a chance to now connect themselves with the nature.”
 
 Pune based software engineer and trekker   said, “This innovative concept will attract a lot of people across the state. Professionals like us need to dust of our stress.”
 
 “Trekking is a good option to feel energetic amidst the flora and fauna. But, the forest department should keep a watch on trekkers and their activities. There should be ceiling on trekker to maintain sanctity of the forests.”
 
 Another Pune based adventure enthusiast and nature lover   said, “The urban life is chaotic here. You can hardly find your inner voice in an urban lifestyle. Trekking helps us keeping ourselves physically and mentally fit. Therefore, this initiative will be a good escape for nature lovers like us.”
 
 
