Nagpur: Nearly three years after eight-year-old Yug Chandak was brutally killed, the last accused, who was a ‘juvenile in conflict with law’, was convicted on Friday. The minor is accused of conspiring with main accused Rajesh Dhanalal Daware (19) and Arvind Abhilash Singh (23) for kidnapping Yug for extortion. He was found guilty under Section 364(A) read with 120(B). He was also part of the plan to hide Yug under the cot. The verdict was pronounced by Juvenile Justice Board comprising judges NM Bedarkar and Surekha Borkute. Being a juvenile, the accused can’t be sentenced to jail like other accused and would be handed over a lighter punishment aimed at reforming him. Accordingly, the punishment would be pronounced shortly. The minor, brother of one of the two killers, was 17 years old when he conspired with the killers. Yug was murdered on September 1, 2014, sparking off huge outrage and protests in the city. It was the second such killing in the city within three years, after the murder of another eight-year-old Kush Katariya by Ayush Naresh Pugalia on October 11, 2011, for extracting Rs2 crore ransom from his parents. Daware and Singh were awarded a rare double death by the Nagpur Sessions Court. The sentence was later confirmed by Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court. The appeal filed by both is pending in the Supreme Court. The Maharashtra government roped in attorney general Mukul Rohatgi and solicitor General Ranjit Kumar to plead the case of the prosecution. Yug’s father, Dr Mukesh Chandak, has also filed an intervention through counsel Rajendra Daga in the SC praying for maintaining the death penalty of the accused. With a view to take revenge on the noted dentist and also extract ransom, Daware and Singh hatched the conspiracy to kidnap and kill his son, a Standard-II student of Centre Point School, Wardhaman Nagar. They killed Yug by smothering him on September 1, 2014, and buried his body in sand near a culvert on the desolate Gumthi-Gumthala Road near Patansawangi village, 27km from Nagpur. In all 26 injuries were found on Yug’s body, most of them on or near the neck. The duo planned to escape after receiving the money but were arrested the very next day after Chandak family expressed suspicion on Daware. During interrogation, both of them confessed to the crime and took the police to the spot where they had buried the body.