Never before has a   judge had to deal with an   on the  . As bizarre as it may sound, an  ,  , had to send a man into police custody straight from the witness box on Wednesday for disrespecting the court after he was caught eating chocolate not once, but four times during the proceedings. By evening, he was produced again before the court and released with a warning.

 The witness in question is Chandrashekar, a retired senior auditor at the Doddaballapur cooperative society. He was being cross-examined at the Lokayukta Special Court at Mayo Hall on Wednesday in a case from August 2012 involving a trap laid for Rs 6,000. The accused was the witness in the case while a Bescom assistant engineer was the accused.
 
 Though he was supposed to be a shadow witness, Chandrashekar had not gone inside the chamber of the accused. His examination chief (prosecution evidence) had been completed in December 2016. The case had been posted to Wednesday for cross-examination.
 
 After three questions, the judge found him chewing on something while still standing in the witness box. When the judge asked him what it was, Chandrashekar said it was nothing. He was then asked to rinse his mouth and come back. He stepped out of court and came back after a break.
 
 He went to the witness box again, took the oath and a few questions later, he was found chewing something again. By his body language, he didn’t look sober, said a source. One is not supposed to chew in a witness box, so this time he was sent with a Lokayukta head constable to rinse his mouth and come back. 
 
 A few minutes later, Chandrashekar was back on the stand – chewing again. The judge gave him a last warning as it amounted to disrespect of court and sent him out again with a constable.
 
 But for the fourth time , when the official was back on the witness stand and found chewing again, the judge had had it. This time, when asked, the official said he had chocolate in his mouth.
 
 Annoying by the nerve, the judge asked the public prosecutor if he would act against the witness or if the court should act for this unruly behaviour.
 
 After the public prosecutor asked the judge to proceed, the court handed Chandrashekar over to the police. He was left in police custody till evening and produced back at the court by the end of day to be released with a warning.
 
 “This is unprecedented. The witness’ repeated disobedience forced the judge to use the law for showing disrespect to court, which is nothing but contempt [of court],” said Sundar, who was cross-examining Chandrashekar.
 
