Women voters tend to have a 
  for   than men and a correspondingly lower preference for BJP and its allies, an analysis of voting patterns in Uttar Pradesh shows.

 In seats where female voters were less than 80% of male voters, the NDA polled 45.5% and BSP just 18.5%. As the proportion of female voters went up, the NDA’s vote share steadily dropped and the BSP’s rose. 
 
 At the other extreme, in seats where more women voted than men, BSP had a 24.2% vote share and BJP and its allies 37%. This emerges from data on male and female voters available on the Election Commission’s website for 389 of the state’s 403 assembly constituencies.
 
 Data for the remaining 14 seats was “awaited”, according to the website. 
 
 An analysis of the data on gender-specific voter turnout done with the detailed results shows that there were 55 seats in which the number of women who voted was less than 80% of the number of men voting.
 
 In these seats, the BJP and its allies mopped up 45.5% of the votes cast to win 45 seats, while the BSP got a measly 18.5% and won just one seat.
 
 There were 169 seats in which the number of women voters was between 80% and 90% of men voters. In these seats, the NDA’s vote share was 42.2% and the BSP’s share 21.5%. In 87 seats, women voters were between 90% and 100% of men voters. Here, the vote share of the BJP and its allies dropped further to 40.5% while the BSP’s share rose to 24%.
 
 Finally, there were 78 seats in which women outnumbered men among those who voted. The NDA lost almost one-third of these seats (compared to just one-fifth overall) and its vote share was 37%, distinctly lower than in the state as a whole. In contrast, the BSP won eight of these seats and had a vote share of 24.2%.
 
 While there is a clear pattern of the NDA’s vote share dropping and the BSP’s rising with the proportion of women voters, there is no discernible pattern to the vote shares of the third major formation in this contest — the SP-Congress alliance.
 
 What explains the apparent relative preference of women voters for BSP? While the data cannot answer that question, a couple of plausible reasons can be conjectured.
 
 One could be that the BSP being led by a woman makes a difference at the margins.
 
 Another could be the perception that   runs a tight administration that cracks down hard on ‘gundagardi’.
 
 Women are widely believed to be more sensitive to lawlessness as an issue than men. That could be a reason. Whatever the reasons though, the pattern in the data is unmistakable.
 
