The world was enraptured by her majestic voice that rendered the 'gambeera bhavam' perfectly, but at home she was the soft-spoken warm lady of the house -the nuances in D K  's music were as varied as the ups and downs in her life.

 Part of the trinity of women in Carnatic music, along with M S   and M L Vasanthakumari, Pattammal was a revolutionary in music and society. Breaking a male bastion and performing at a time when it was considered disrespectful for women to sing in public, she managed to rebel against her orthodox family and yet remained a deeply rooted family person. “She was most content around music. Of course, she was an affectionate mother. And anything we asked her for would be done,“ recalls I Sivakumar, elder son and a renowned mridangist.
 
 Born on March 28, 1919, Pattammal performed for the first time on stage when just 10. Named Alamelu, she was called `patta', a child prodigy.
 
 In contrast to MS and MLV, Pattammal had many more odds stacked against her before she caught up as their contemporary on the arts scene, say old timers.
 
 “S h e was a revolutionary in Carnatic music and is an inspiration to us,“ says singer Nithyasree, granddaughter of Pattammal. “As a grandmother she had always been a soft-spoken and a very loving person, with a child-like persona,“ says Nithyasree remembering a doyenne who was full of life and a well-spring of energy.
 
 Music was always on her mind.“When she was ailing and had become reserved, it was only questions on music that made her respond immediately.That was the kind of connection she had with music,“ says Nithyasree.
 
 The first woman to perform ragam tanam pallavi in concerts, Pattammal went on to perform complex kirthanas, besides popularising patriotic songs.
 
 At a young age she was noticed by recording company  , which wanted to record and sell her music, but not before DKP faced stiff opposition from her own aunt, who believed girls from pious families shouldn't be exposed to such publicity. But she went on to release 1,000 records with the firm.Pattammal went on to be identified for her in-depth technical knowledge and heartwarming renditions of Bharatiyar compositions -especially during the Independence movement.
 
 Aarvalan, a music enthusiast, says, “In a way she had a connection with the mere name `Dikshithar' as her father's name was Krishnasamy Dikshithar“.
 
 Beyond being a great and successful musician, she effortlessly managed to be a wife and a mother and later grandmother and above all a simple and a kind human being, say family members. She was an animal lover too and had more than a dozen cows at home, besides 10 dogs, mostly pomeranians.
 
 “There was a pomeranian Beena who wouldn't eat until grandmother was back home after her concert tours,“ Nithyasree reminiscences.
 
 The legacy of the virtuoso lives on in the music of the present generation, especially women.
 
 A three-day celebration on the 98th birth anniversary of Pattammal was held at   in association with Aanmajothi.
 
 On Sunday, the concluding day of the programme , the 'D K Pattammal Award' and the title `Isaijothi' was presented to Carnatic vocalists Ranjani and Gayathri.
 
