BHUBANESWAR: After a gap of nearly three years, the state government on Monday approved premature release of 33 convicts from different jails in Odisha after remission of their life sentence. 

 The issue of early release of prisoners, convicted for murder, was pending since long in view of the Supreme Court’s July 2014 interim order putting a blanket ban on the state governments from exercising their discretion in remitting the sentences of life convicts. The apex court vacated its order in July 2015 with certain riders paving way for the state sentence review boards (SSRBs) to take cases of deserving prisoners. 
 
 “We have received approval from the state home department, which earlier sent our recommendation about release of the life convicts to the state law department for vetting. We will serve the order copies to the concerned jails to free the selected life convicts,” ADG (prisons) Arun Kumar Ray told TOI. Ray said all the life convicts already spent more than 14 years behind the bar for committing murders. “They will be released on ground of their good conduct,” Ray said. 
 
 At present, nearly 16,000 prisoners (under trial prisoners and convicts) are lodged in 91 prisons across the state. Out of total 3,381 convicts (in different crimes), around 1,770 are life convicts, sources said. 
 
 The state government had last remitted life sentence of 27 convicts in 2014. “We had to stop holding the   following Supreme Court’s ban after then   government in Tamil Nadu decided to free seven life convicts in connection with  . We held the fresh   meeting in November-December and recommended to the government to release 132 life convicts,” another prisons official said. “We hope, the state government will soon approve the names of the remaining convicts,” the officer added. 
 
 As per Supreme Court’s directive, the state governments cannot release those prisoners on remission whose prison terms are specified to continue till the end of their lives. “The apex court held that there is no discretion for states to release life convicts for whom it is specified they should suffer imprisonment for not less than 20 to 25 years. The relief of remission would not extend to life convicts who were sentenced to life for gruesome rape and murder and terror related offences,” said lawyer Siddharth Das.
 
