BENGALURU: A day after a   in an accident and his father shifted the body home on a two-wheeler even before doctors could carry out the postmortem,   on Monday morning traced the bereaved family to a  , Electronics City. Cops sent back the body to the  .

 Raheem Saphan, the only child of Saphan and Mohina from Assam, was hit by a biker when he was playing near Karpoora Gate, Hosur Road, at 7.30pm on Sunday. Saphan and his relative Likhit Khan shifted the boy to Anekal hospital around 8pm, where doctors declared him dead on arrival. “He had died at least 30 minutes earlier,” doctors told Saphan, a scrap merchant.
 
 Clueless about what to do next, Saphan lifted his son’s body, walked out of the hospital and stood near the entrance, eyewitnesses said. “At least the hospital staff could have told him that the autopsy should be carried out. After waiting for some time, Saphan took the body home on Likhit’s scooter,” sources said.
 
 Meanwhile, word got around that hospital staff declined to provide an ambulance to shift the boy’s body, forcing the bereaved father to carry it on the two-wheeler. Anekal police landed at the hospital and later launched a manhunt for the bereaved family.
 
 “We couldn’t get enough details about the family but came to know that the accident had happened near Karpoora Gate. On reaching the spot, we came to know it was Saphan’s son and went to his house in Hongasandra,” police said.
 
 Likhit said they were clueless on how to shift the body. “All I knew was that we should pay at least Rs 1,000. We didn’t have that much money, so we decided to shift the body on the two-wheeler itself,” he said. Asked whether he asked for an ambulance with government hospital staff, Likhit said “no”.
 
 District health officer Dr Ramesh Babu told TOI he would find out why the hospital authorities let the father leave on Sunday night. “After the postmortem, we shifted the child’s body in an ambulance,” he said.
 
 Anekal police have registered a case of   and are looking for the biker.
 
