NAGPUR: Mrudul Dehankar had a mixed luck in the World Youth   Championship on Saturday. On yet another day of double rounds, the 13-year-old did well to hold second seed to a draw but the Women Chess Master (WCM) ran out of steam to suffer first defeat in the following round at Montevideo, Uruguay.

 While Mrudul made most of her opening advantage to force second seed and Fide Master (FM)   of Bulgaria to split the points in the sixth round, the BVM, Trimurti Nagar, student, went down fighting against 10th seeded American   in the seventh round.
 
 In a marathon sixth round battle on the top board against the second seed Nurgyul, Mrudul started with the regular Kings Pawn opening while the Bulgarian FM converted the same into the poisoned pawn variation of Sicilian defence within six moves.
 
 Being an attacking player, Mrudul was not prepared for this unique variation but played positionally well when Nurgyul brought her queen side pieces - rook, bishop and knight - into action. The fourth seeded Mrudul castled her king in a risky situation and allowed the Bulgarian a perfect exchange sacrifice in the 12th move.
 
 Mrudul’s position worsened further and was losing till the 35th move but the city master, despite under severe time pressure, kept on fighting giving tremendous resistance to the experienced Nurgyul, who at 2389 has 196 more Elo rating points than the fourth seed. The four-hour long battle, however, came to end after 59 moves with both the players signing the peace treaty.
 
 “All the credit to Mrudul for defending such a losing position and more over playing the best moves in time pressure is praiseworthy. Hope she wins a medal,” an optimistic  , who is following Mrudul’s progress in the World U-14 girls' meet, told TOI.
 
 After playing a marathon sixth round, a weary looking Mrudul went down fighting with the black pieces against   Samadashvili Martha on their third table battle of the seventh round. Having made a false opening, she committed a mistake by failing to make an exchange sacrifice, Mrudul came in trouble within 10 moves. She tried hard to bring parity but was made to resign in the 28th move by her 10th ranked rival.
 
 After winning three rounds and playing as many draws, Mrudul suffered her first defeat in the world meet. She has now slipped to the joint fourth position with 4.5 points while the top two seeds are leading the chart collecting six points. In the eighth round, Mrudul will open with the white pieces against Shreya Mangalam of USA on the sixth table.
 
