Chennai: It is not just anorexic models who hit the ramp nowadays, as their curvy counterparts are making waves. With demand for   growing at the same pace as for regular sizes, e-commerce portals are focussing on this earlier ignored segment.

 In the case of Ramya Rastogi, partner, PwC, her work wear is taken care of by a startup that offers specially designed plus size clothes. “Smart office wear is the need of the hour for professionals. Kaaryah helped me find trendy and comfortable clothes. Their designs are innovative and sophisticated,” said Rastogi.
 
 The plus size clothing segment, which contributes to over $1.8 billion according to Technopak, sees takers in the work wear and casual wear segment. 
 
 “Initially, people were apologetic to ask for higher sizes. Now, under our brand Plush, we are witnessing good traction. We make it a point to have curvy models on the website too, “said Nidhi Agarwal, co-founder, Kaaryah. The portal, is witnessing equal demand from all 18 sizes of clothes on the platform. The company also runs campaigns named Beautiful in Every Size with examples of successful women in the plus size categories.
 
 For Larjjosa, which deals exclusively in the plus size segment with sizes from xxl to 6xl, 72% are repeat customers. Cofounder Abhijeet Jadhav said that one of the reasons for the company’s success rate with 92% customer satisfaction is specially designed clothes to suit the big-boned. “The average ticket size per person is Rs 1,500. Generally, brands take regular designs and just increase the size, but we take care to tailor the designs for the customers,” he added. Operating primarily online, the company now has operations in 7-8 brick and mortar stores.
 
 Sabena Puri, cofounder and CEO, Stage3, a   rental and styling platform launched a capsule curvey collection 5 weeks back, after recieving several requests. “For a curvy figure, you need to know what silhouttes work on your figure. We look at different body types and understand what colours, cuts and patterns will suit them,” said Puri. Stage3 offers 3 and 6 day rental of clothes that are altered to suit a customer’s body measurement.
 
 For players, the larger sizes do not move as fast as the regular sizes and hence, hesitate to pile up inventory. What works for startup StalkBuyLove is their supply chain management. “We train and set up the units ourselves, working almost in a ‘just in time’format. Hence, we can focus on this category,” said Nishrit Shrivastava, cofounder, StalkBuyLove. With a separate team that focuses on this segment, Shrivastava adds that while most players charge a premium for the plus sized segment, his company only takes into account the extra material cost.
 
 
