JALANDHAR: Once an addict, now a crusader against drugs post rehabilitation, Jodhbir Singh ‘Jodha’ is popular on the social media among the Punjabi diaspora in the US. But now, he has specially flown in from the States to campaign for the   (AAP) in Punjab. He hails from Chak Karekhan (Dhota) village, which was earlier in Baba Bakala constituency but now is in Khadoor Sahib.

 Jodha (30) does not feel shy of admitting that he was once an addict but gives his own story a spin to put the political establishment in the dock. It is due to his popularity on the social media that Jodha is in demand for road shows and public meetings with regard to the AAP campaign. He pens poems and short plays, apart from working as a truck driver. He even acts as Punjabi radio and TV host in the US.
 
 On Tuesday, he was seen leading a road show at Bagha Purana town of Moga and on Monday at Dakha, apart from holding several public meetings in parts of Majha and Malwa regions. 
 
 “What once made me weak during a certain phase of my life is now a weapon in my armoury to be articulate against the high and mighty,” Jodha told TOI on Tuesday. Once a stage artist and student activist in his college days, Jodha revealed that he relapsed into addiction twice after treatment and finally after leaving drugs for the third time, he moved to the US in 2013. 
 
 “I was hooked to ‘chitta’ (heroin) as some my friends came in contact with drug addicts and peddlers. I too started to fancy the idea of taking it as they would often talk about it, but then could not live without it for six months. As my conscience and my desire to get it struggled almost daily, I disclosed to the family that I had fallen in the trap and wanted to come out. It was a shock for them as none in the family or outside was ready to believe that an awakened youth like me could fall in the trap. It was my determination to come out of the slush. The most important factor was the support given by my joint family,” he maintained.
 
 “I had finished my studies and was trying to move abroad on study visa but failed, and it was during this time that drugs had started spreading tentacles in Majha region and it engulfed me also,” he said. 
 
 “It was during my addiction days that I realized that how politicians and police officials were patronizing the drug trade. That was the reason that when I finally managed to come out of it, my first appeal in the shape of a poem was to youth to become good sons, followed by a sarcastic poem against the current dispensation titled “Ajj Kahaan Badal Saab noon, uth tak aapna Punjab, har shehar ch nasha vikda pind pind de vich sharaab”. I uploaded this on Facebook and it went viral on different social media platforms. It was then that I decided to continue to speak out my mind against drugs and their patrons, even by giving my own example,” he recalled.
 
 “People find it unusual when I give my own example, but I think that by doing so if I am able to motivate even one youth to come of the trap, that would mean a lot to me,” he said.
 
