PUNE:   squarely blamed lack of application on the part of Indian batsmen after the hosts lost the opening Test of the Border Gavaskar Trophy to Australia by 333 runs. The skipper, though, put up a brave front saying the defeat was necessary to get them cracking again.

 "We needed something like this for us to get a reality check and understand the areas we need to work on. We don't take anything for granted at any stage, especially at this level. If we don't apply ourselves well and err in shot selection, we are bound to lose wickets even on a flat wicket.
 
 "The batting let us down in the both the innings. It was sustained pressure from the Australians but the fact remains that batted badly in the first innings. That's the main reason why couldn't get back into the game."
 
 He defended the selection of five specialist bowlers on a turner where an extra batsman could have come in handy and off-spinner   hardly looking the part.
 
 "You wouldn't have asked this question had we won this match," he said. "We wanted to take 20 wickets. Though we took those many, it was too late."
 
 He said trailing by 155 runs in the first innings after being bowled out for 105 in the first innings was too big a factor. "Trailing by that many is criminal, actually. If we had got close to their first innings total, the bowlers' mindset would have been different in the second innings. The moment you give away 50-60 runs (lead), the game starts drifting away. It's very difficult to pull things back from there, even a single run hurts."
 
 On the difficulty posed by the pitch to batsmen, Kohli said: "I don't think it was any different from the turners that we played on in the past. We just didn't play good cricket. In the previous matches, we played good cricket that's why we won. (But here) we played bad cricket and lost. In simple terms that's how we look at this defeat.
 
 "Even a part-timer can get four wickets if you don't apply yourself. I certainly would like to think that was the case with our batting line-up in this game."
 
