MUMBAI: A 40-year-old woman from GTB Nagar died of leptospirosis this week, becoming the third person to succumb to the bacterial infection this month. The civic body, in its fortnightly health report, also stated that both   cases and admissions have started declining since the past one week.

 As per civic data, there were 261 hospitalisations due to H1N1 in the first two weeks of July, which came down to 117 over the last nine days. Overall, 378 people from the city and 160 from the periphery were treated in July for the viral infection that has claimed 14 lives since the beginning of the year. There were no deaths in the last nine days after the five casualties reported in the first 15 days of July, the civic report said. 
 
 A civic official said, “H1N1 admissions are comparatively lower in the second half of the month. It would be early to say that cases are declining but they are certainly stabilising.” Infectious disease consultant Dr Om Srivastava said most cases are now being tackled at the OPD level unless the patient falls in the high-risk category. “As it is monsoon is not a time for the virus to peak but it did this year. Even if there is a dip in cases, the key still remains that people should not ignore symptoms or delay treatment,” he said.
 
 Physician Dr Gautam Bhanshali said he currently has two patients hospitalised under his care. “OPDs are not flooded with H1N1, but cases are still there. We are also treating a lot of upper respiratory infections that mimic swine flu symptoms,” he said. Lilavati Hospital’s infectious disease consultant Dr Vasant Nagvekar said the guard should not be dropped as yet. “Many young people have contracted the infection and developed lung complications this year. So we need to remain alert,” he said. 
 
 Across the state, nearly 340 deaths have been recorded and over 3,000 confirmed cases since the beginning of the year. Looking at the deluge of cases, many civic health workers agreed to get themselves vaccinated. Till date, 3,064 pregnant women, people with hypertension, diabetes and healthcare workers have taken the free vaccine. 
 
 The civic report added that the leptospirosis victim had a history of wading through water. The patient had consulted a private physician in Chembur for fever and muscle pain. She sought admission in a public sector hospital after three days had lapsed. She succumbed to respiratory failure and multi-organ dysfunction. Besides leptospirosis, nearly 600 people have been treated for dengue-like illnesses this month, of which   claimed only 52 were confirmed cases.
 
