THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The members of the   has reiterated their stand against the opening of the   of Sree Padmanabhaswamy Temple. Devaswom minister  , who held a discussion with the family members on Monday in this regard, maintained that the government has been awaiting the decision of the Supreme Court to open the vault. 

 According to the royal family, opening the vault was against God'will and any such attempt would invite divine wrath. "The deity is believed to be a perpetual minor and the thantri of the temple is the guardian and thus the supreme authority. Any decision on opening the vault is left to the thantri, said a member of the family.
 
 Gopal Subramanium, the amicus curie to the Supreme Court in the temple case, is expected to visit the temple and meet the   members next week.
 
  In his previous submission to the court, Subramanium, citing the audit report by former CAG Vinod Rai, had informed the missing of 769 gold Pots with an aggregate weight of 776 kg approximately valued at Rs 186 crore. He had also noted that as per the entries in the mahassar register, the B vault was opened at least seven times during the period from July 1990 to December 2002.
 
 According to Supreme Court senior counsel MKS Menon, only the outer chamber of the vault might have been opened in the past and not its sealed inner chamber. He said the apex court has made it clear that it never intended to hurt religious beliefs and a decision on opening the vault could be taken only after examining different versions of the matter. "The date of next hearing is yet to be listed by the Supreme Court," he said.
 
 Meanwhile, temple expert committee coordinator M Velayudhan Nair said inventorying of the valuable treasures in all vaults including A, C, D, E, F, G and H has been completed. "The procedures began in 2011 and we have compiled the entire data in 123 volumes and handed it over to the temple administrative committee led by district judge. The data has also been entered in digital format," he said.
 
