HYDERABAD: With   mounting by the day in the city, leaving over 250 battling the   since January 1 this year,   have sought to put focus on preventive   for people in the high-risk category -those below five years and above 50 years of age.

 An analysis of   shows that these two categories of patients comprise 76% of the infected. The worst-hit are children below five years, with 46% cases in this category. Experts say this is because parents are failing to get children vaccinated.
 
 “Most of the parents have the wrong perception that vaccinating children once is enough. However, this is a seasonal vaccine and has to be taken every year if a child is below five years,“ said Dr Anjul Dayal, senior consultant paediatrician and paediatric intensivist at Continental Hospitals.
 
 The flu vaccine, available for Rs 600 to Rs 800, does not provide complete protection, but reduces risk of infection by about 50-60% among the overall population, she said.
 
 Both the categories of people are vulnerable to H1N1 and require vaccination. Out of the 19 positive swine flu cases reported by the Institute of Preventive Medicine (IPM) on February 1, nine patients were aged between 1and 5 years and five between 50-65 years. The remaining five patients were aged between 6 and 47 years.
 
 The trend was similar on Feb 4. The total cases of H1N1 was 25 that day. Of this 12 were between 1-5 years and four were aged between 54-65 years.The remaining seven patients were in the 18-45 age group.
 
 “It is high time for the health department to announce a general advisory for these two sections of vulnerable people to get flu vaccine. Unfortunately, no such attempts are being made,“ said a health officer on condition of anonymity. City experts have recom mend several precautionary measures for the elderly to prevent swine flu infection. “Since swine flu is a viral infection and spreads through air, elders are advised to avoid travelling, especially pilgrimage, as crowding and congestion increases viral transmission. Hand hygiene should be practised regularly and exposure to cool weather and pollution should be avoided,“ said Dr Shiva Raju, HOD, internal medicine, KIMS Hospital. He also suggested eating fruits and good protein to increase immunity levels.
 
