NAGPUR: In seven years, 115 patients have died at  , with 25 of the deaths taking place in the last nine months, since April 1, 2016. The latest death took place on Sunday, when a 50-year-old lady died after vomiting blood. The number of deaths has raised a big question mark on the hospital administration.

 The post mortem report of Manohar Ahuja, who expired in August, said that he had been beaten up badly, with marks all over his body. This lends credence to the allegations that Class IV employees of the hospital beat up admitted patients.
 
 North Nagpur MLA Milind Mane had raised the issue of rampant deaths at the mental hospital during the winter assembly session, and highlighted the post mortem report noting marks of beating all over Ahuja’s body.
 
 Minister for public health and family welfare Dr Deepak Sawant had admitted, in a reply to Mane, the large number of deaths at the hospital. About Ahuja’s case, Sawant said the marks on his body were due to fights he had with other admitted patients. However, the police are still investigating the case.
 
 Mane, who is himself a doctor, told TOI, “Mentally ill patients are mostly adamant; handling them is a difficult job. The staffers must be manhandling them or even beating them to get things done. Some patients might be getting internal injury in the process, which could be the reason behind the many deaths.”
 
 He also expressed suspicion of negligence by the hospital management. Mane said, “There are chances that patients are not being looked after properly. Many of them might even be missing out on daily medicines.”
 
 However, what really happens inside is a mystery since no outsider is allowed to enter the hospital. “I have also demanded CCTVs so the activities inside can be monitored. The minister did not agree to putting cameras anywhere around the female patients, which is all right. The process of putting cameras around wards for male patients will begin soon,” said Mane.
 
 Mental hospital’s medical superintendent Dr Praveen Navkhare said, “Even if you look at the growing number of deaths every year, it is in proportion to the growing number of patients being admitted to the hospital.”
 
 He added, “Most deaths are due to medical reason. Patients are bought to the hospital with poor physical health; some of them don’t get better even with treatment. This being a  , the physical aspect of the patients cannot be handled with much efficiency.”
 
 He also clarified, “Unlike most mental hospitals, who don’t want to know the cause behind the mental patient’s death, here we strictly get the post mortem done for all deaths.”
 
 It has taken 25 deaths in nine months for the hospital management to approach the public health department for appointment of a physician at the hospital. “We have approached deputy director health Dr Sanjay Jaiswal, who has assured to get a physician for the patients in the coming days,” said Dr Navkhare.
 
 
