BENGALURU: It all started with a survey to understand the reasons for the increasing incidents of crime and suicide among the young population. The revelations were startling enough to prompt social activist Bharathi Singh to launch an initiative,  , in 2008. 

 The  , an exclusive youth-centric helpline, Bharathi says, has helped over 6,000 (15-25 age group) people get a hold of their lives. 
 
 "In most cases, the reason was a failure of some sort -- academic, work-related or to do with a relations hip. Everyone I met did not have the much-needed intervention to sail through hardships. I realized if we help youngsters handle failure in a better way, intervene early on and guide them, we can prevent them from going down these paths. Those aged between 15 and 20 are confused about the role they play; their parents might treat them like adults one moment and children the next. They also face peer pressure, exams, relationship issues; the list is endless," says Bharathi. 
 
 The helpline sees a spike in the number of calls during the board exam months of January to April every year. "Students are under tremendous pressure. At the same time, they are dealing with parental expectations. Some parents think they are doing the right thing forcing their children to study throughout the day and preventing them from other activities such as sports and arts which is in fact counter-productive," she points out.
 
 Other issues include family, romance, unassertiveness, lack of employment and depression. The helpline gets a large number of calls from the northern states of Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar.
 
 If necessary, those in need are called to the centre for regular sessions. Close to 200 students volunteer at the centre, recommending the facility to those in need. "We also work closely with colleges. Our helpline number is available on the SSLC board website," Bharathi says.
 
  Counsellors, psychologists, psychiatrists and college counsellors work in tandem at the centre. Bharathi, however, doesn't believe in prescribing drugs if not necessary. 
 
  "I n most cases, the problem is either failure at a job, opportunity or exam or the fear of failure. What we try and explain to them is that failure is not th e end, but just a feedback." 
 
 
