KOCHI: Former state police chief TP Senkumar said on Friday there was no clear evidence to connect actor Dileep to the purported conspiracy behind the rape of an actor. But he added he was not giving a clean chit to anyone. 

 Speaking to media after a seminar at the   in Kochi on police and rule of law, Senkumar stressed on the distinction between evidence and suspicion. "Evidences are admissible and reliable details, which can be presented before a court. During that particular juncture of investigation, there was no clear evidence but only suspicion. It is the investigator's duty to reach at evidence from suspicion," said Senkumar. 
 
 Senkumar went on to say that a person should be broken in an interrogation not by use of force but by presenting information collected against him, particularly, when he is a person holding a position in the society. "I am not giving a clean chit to anyone nor am I implicating anyone," said the former state police chief.
 
 Reiterating that the questioning went on for hours before the cops could lay their hands on any strong evidence, senkumar said the steps taken by the investigation team after the questioning was right. "There was not enough evidence at that time. The questioning would have been much more fruitful if they had collected enough evidence. The investigation went on till 1am without the presence of the team leader but the entire media was there," he said. 
 
 Senkumar said it appeared that it was handling the case without any bias. He also called for an investigation into the reports that an ADGP met one of the suspects at Vytila. 
 
 Commenting on the counter report filed by ADGP B   countering Senkumar's claim that the team leader was kept in the dark about the interrogation of the actors, Senkumar reiterated that the team leader was unaware of the questioning. "I was the state police chief and I am saying he didn't know of the development," said the former police chief. 
 
 Senkumar said he didn't get time to study the actor rape case in depth. "I was preoccupied with   case, which I had studied in detail. I couldn't study the actress case in detail but I was told by the investigating officer that the probe was going in the right direction," he said adding that he had to deal with some backstabbing in the meantime as well. He also alleged that his pension papers were being withheld by a group of senior bureaucrats . 
 
