DEHRADUN: In sequel to the judgment rendered by the   on Dec 20, 2016 the state government has issued an order imposing   on sale, use and storage of plastic bags, cups, glasses, packing material with effect from January 11, 2017. The violators would be imposed fine of Rs.5000.According to street vendors, the ban implies that their livelihood will be severely affected since they do no earn enough profits to buy organic bags. Meanwhile Nigam has started its drive to seize all   which are being bought or sold in the city.

 Sunil Matta, who deals in plastic packaging material and bags said,”We totally support the ban on thermocol since we know it is very harmful but these days there are so many better varieties of plastic which are available and possibly we could have been allowed to use those. People dispose of plastic bags in careless manner and it’s the manufacturers who are bearing the price for it.”
 
 Puneet Aggarwal, member of Doon Patta Association (Disposable, paper bags & plastic) also opined that not only will this ban imply losses for the manufacturers but also for the economy,”this business generates quite a bit of revenue which will be lost now. There are lot of traders who only deal in plastic and its byproducts so how are they supposed to earn their living now?” he asked.
 
  
  Meanwhile Nigam started aggressive anti-plastic drives in many parts of the city as soon as the government issued the order earlier this week. Dr Kailash Gunjyal, health officer, Dehradun Nagar Nigam told TOI,”The   is being strictly enforced across the city and we have formed teams comprising of sanitation inspectors along with supervisors who have conducting raids in Dehradun. Over the last couple of days we have seized close to 60kg of plastic from different areas and collected Rs 15000 in penalties.”
 
 The street vendors and local vegetable shop owners claim that they are the worst hit because of the ban. Raj Kumar, who owns a stall in Neerajanpur vegetable market said,”We do not make so much profit that we can buy jute or paper bags. Also paper bags are not sturdy enough to hold a lot of weight so what option is left for us? We can either ask the customer to get their own bags or charge them for the cloth bags.”
 
