LUCKNOW: When the heart of the city is congested, its arteries are bound to be blocked. Be it the narrow lanes of Aminabad, the buzzing   or the commercial area of Ashok Marg, roadside encroachment poses a huge problem in entire  .

 What irks voters most is that the issue finds no mention in any party's manifesto or candidate's agenda. They now demand that the issue be included in the election manifesto of parties if they want support of voters.
 
 Though steps have been taken to remove encroachment and unlawful parking spots, they end up returning each time. Lack of public toilets,  , unaccounted garbage and illegal dairies are other problems in the constituency.
 
 Lack of public toilets: Aminabad and Hazratganj are among the most visited places of the city but lack public toilets. Those that exist are in unusable conditions. Dheeraj Sharma, a shopkeeper in Gadbadjhala said, “Absence of toilets may not be as big an issue for customers as it is for shopkeepers. While men have no option but to urinate in the open, women employees face the real trouble." 
 
 Somewhat similar is the condition in Hazratganj. Though a couple of toilets can be spotted, none of them is suitable for use. “When we are out for shopping, we have to go to a mall or restaurant to use the washroom," says Sudha Rastogi, a visitor. 
 
 Faulty drainage: Aminabad, Ganeshganj, Sunderbagh, Ghasiyari Mandi, Rakabganj, Golaganj, Malviyanagar, Yahyaganj, Aishbagh and Phoolbagh still have non-cemented drains. Most of them do not even have proper outlets. They are cleaned once in a few years and are always overflowing or choked. 
 
 Unaccounted garbage: The menace is not limited to older areas, even posh areas like Mall Avenue, Gokhale Marg, Jopling Road, Butler Palace and Lawrence Terrace have similar stories. 
 
 “Collected garbage is rarely lifted by LMC. Ragpickers and stray animals scatter it around.Every person cannot reach the MLA for such day-to-day issues.Who do we take our problem to?" says Amita Prakash, a resident of Gokhale Marg. 
 
 Illegal dairies: Several illegal dairies have come up in the middle of residential areas like Narhi, Aishbagh and Yahiyaganj.The smell is overpowering and cow dung is on the roads. “Minor accidents are caused due to these stray animals. They defecate on roads and get into parks," said Rajiv Singh, a resident of Narhi.
 
