GAYA: District magistrate   has   to   and ordered their one-day   for being   from their Kalchakra duty in Bodh Gaya. Altogether 600 magistrates have been deputed on Kalchakra duty. The magistrates have to work in three shifts to maintain law and order and ensure proper services to the nearly 38,000 pilgrims registered with the organizers for participation in the 10-day-long prayers conducted by Buddhist spiritual leader the Dalai Lama. 

 When contacted, the DM said the magistrates were found absent from their point of deputation during surprise checks conducted by sector and zonal magistrates. More stringent action, including suspension, would be taken if replies to the show-cause notices was not found satisfactory, he said.
 
 Meanwhile, the Dalai Lama led the special prayers only for the robed monks. The non-robed Buddha followers would be joining the prayer-cum-sermon session on Thursday. 
 
 Gaya district administration and state tourism department have jointly set up a makeshift 'Paryatak Gram' on the Magadh University premises to provide short duration accommodation to the visitors, who otherwise do not get proper accommodation.
 
 Paryatak Gram can accommodate 100 visitors in two of its dormitories and 20 Swiss cottages without any charge, DM said. The furnished accommodation include 24X7 running hot water facility, mobile charging points and other facilities aimed at providing comfort to the visitors during their stay. The DM inaugurated it on Tuesday.
 
 The organizers also offer accommodation to the pilgrims in four different categories depending on the pocket of the visitors. The organizers claim to have heavily subsidized the accommodation. In some cases, the subsidy is said to be about 50% of the input cost. The categories are EP tent, Swiss cottage, dormitory and plywood room.
 
 Plywood rooms are the costlier ones. Each plywood room is available for Rs17,250 and can accommodate six persons. No provision for bed is made in three of the four categories of the accommodation and the pilgrims have to sleep on the floor.
 
 Bed facility is available only in Swiss cottages. One Swiss cottage with two double beds and two chairs is designed to accommodate four persons. Swiss cottages are available for Rs11,646 each for the entire duration of the prayers.
 
 EP tents, the most economic accommodation, is available for Rs2,775. Organizers claim to have subsidized the accommodation by 50%. 
 
 
