HYDERABAD: A little distance away from the arterial   road is the picturesque Fox Sagar. Built in 1897, this once pristine lake is part of the catchment of the historic Hussainsagar, both being linked by a tributary of River Musi. When it was constructed, Fox   was the biggest water body in Secunderabad.Today , it is only one-third its original size, thanks to encroachments, and its water is unfit for human or animal consumption due to the rampant pollution it has suffered over the years. The catchment area of the lake has also come under intense anthropogenic stress, resulting in reduced inflows.

 Once a drinking water source to areas north of Secunderabad,   stands second to only Hussainsagar in pollution now due to heavy industrial, municipal and pharmaceutical contaminants. Looking it the lake, it is difficult to believe that it was considered an engineering marvel of the late Asaf Jahi period.
 
 Fox Sagar was constructed before the major lakes, Osman Sagar and Himayat Sagar, were built in the Musi river basin. A unique pump house situated in a stone structure was also built on its shore. The iron bridge connecting the pump house to the lake bund is now rusted. In fact, there has been no efforts to ensure the scientific upkeep of these structures.
 
 City historians are not clear on how the lake got its name. There were at least three British officials, including Colonel RE Fox, associated with Hyderabad of those days, but it is not known whether the lake was named after any of them. Some believe that the lake got its name since the region was populated by foxes when the lake was built. But this theory does not hold water as the name Fox Sagar was engraved on the pump house at the time of its inauguration.
 
 Old official records reveal that several hundred acres of agricultural and horticultural land was under the lake's ayacut even till two decades ago. But unchecked urbanisation has taken a heavy toll on the lake, its aquatic life and avian fauna. Though a few fishermen still catch fish in Fox Sagar, they are laced with harmful chemical pollutants.
 
 Several research studies have revealed that eutrophication (which causes a dense growth of plant life) has already set in at Fox Sagar. A lake with high level of eutrophication is a dead water body for all practical purposes. While no new lake has been built in Hyderabad in the last 90 years, the existing ones are gradually dying or drying up. Fox Sagar with a history of 120 years is the best example of official negligence and decay due to unplanned urbanisation.
 
