BHOPAL: A 22-year-old Madhya Pradesh medical aspirant, who had gone missing from   in Kerala on September 10, has returned home in a pitiful condition, alleging that he was abducted.

 The parents of Akash Rajput allege he was   by an ‘organized admission mafia’ so that the MBBS seat allotted to him under the government quota can be kept vacant and ‘sold’ to someone else. But Kerala police suspect he is misleading them. Akash was found walking around Gwalior in a semi-conscious condition by his neighbours on Saturday night.
 
 “Since everyone knew that he was missing they brought him to my house. He was in a bad shape with torn clothes. He says he was driven in a vehicle straight from Kerala and dropped here. Akash is stressed and cannot recall anything,” said his father, Surendra Singh Rajput, who operates an ice-cream factory. He had returned to Gwalior on September 13 after filing a missing person’s report with Thrissur police.
 
 Akash, who cleared  , had gone to Kerala along with his father to take admission in a private medical college in Palakkad. On their way to Palakkad from Thrissur station, Akash mysteriously disappeared. He told his father that he was going to the toilet and did not return. Rajput approached RPF and then filed a missing person’s complaint that Akash went missing at 3am on September 10. What happened to him over the next seven days and how he ended up in Gwalior, 2,300km away, is still a mystery. 
 
 Akash told TOI that he could not recall anything other than the fact that someone hit him hard on his head. “There is still a wound on my head. I was brought here in a vehicle. I could hear them talking in Malayalam. I was blindfolded. I have not seen any of them. I am not well and I have a severe body ache and nausea,” said Akash.
 
 Thrissur police, however, say Akash is misleading them. “I had sent his father to inquire about his admission. The college authorities made it clear that no admission letter was sent to him. There is something fishy,” U Rajan, in-charge of Thrissur GRP told TOI. “The college told us that the letter was fake. Moreover that college yet to receive affiliation and is not authorized for admission,” said the officer, adding that Akash will have to be produced in court.
 
 Akash’s father, however, insists that a case of kidnapping should be registered to probe the ‘syndicate’. “I don’t think Akash is lying. When I was at the police station the in-charge was pressurising me to return home and had said that Akash would return within two days. See, it happened. There is something wrong, which must be investigated,” Rajput said.
 
