MUMBAI: On Western Railway, a   was due be carried out from 10.30 am to 4 pm on   between  . Trains were due to be diverted from fast to slow tracks, and some slow trains were to remain cancelled on Sunday, inconveniencing commuters. 

 The lock is being undertaken for maintenance of track, signaling and overhead equipment. During the block all Up and Down fast line trains will run on Up and Down slow lines between Goregaon/Andheri and Mahim stations, an official said. 
 
 He stated: "Due to the block, some Up and Down slow trains will remain cancelled, the list of which will be available at all stations. Detailed information to this effect is available with stations master."
 
 
 
 Brace for a block on Harbour line between Kurla and Vashi stations from 11.10 am to 4.10 pm. 
 
 The Down Harbour line services to Panvel/ Belapur/Vashi leaving from Mumbai CST from 10.35 am to 3.37 pm and Up Harbour line services for CST leaving Panvel/ Belapur/ Vashi from 10.20 am to 3.48 pm were due to remain suspended.
 
 However, special local trains were to run on CST - Kurla and Vashi - Panvel sections during the block period. "Harbour Line passengers are also permitted to travel via trans-Harbour / main line till 4 pm," an official said. 
 
 He further stated: "Due to these blocks,   are likely to be more crowded than usual. Passengers are requested not to take any risks while travelling. They are also requested to avoid travelling on footboard, rooftop of locals and not to board extremely over crowded trains."
 
 
 
 There was a mega block on the Kalyan-Thane Up fast line from 11.30 am to 4 pm and this could affect the services. 
 
 The Up fast services leaving Kalyan from 11.00 am to 4.02 pm would halt on Sunday at Mulund, Bhandup, Vikhroli, Ghatkopar, Kurla, Dadar and Byculla stations and would reach the destination 20 minutes behind schedule.
 
 The Down fast services leaving Mumbai CST from 10.08 am to 2.42 pm would halt at Ghatkopar, Vikhroli, Bhandup and Mulund stations in addition to their respective scheduled halts and would arrive destination 15 minutes behind schedule. Train No. 50104 Ratnagiri-Dadar passenger would terminate at Diva station on Sunday and Train No. 50103 in the opposite direction would run ex-Diva station due to the megablock, officials said. 
 
