NEW DELHI: A 48-year-old retired BSF   used the skill set he had acquired while in service to chase and fight snatchers and recover his cell phones on Wednesday.

 A CCTV camera captured the entire drama, including the thrashing the snatchers received at the hands of an ex-BSF man who had won a gallantry award from the President while in service.
 
  Bisht, now a general security manager at a bank in central Delhi, told TOI he had been running late for work when the incident took place. “I was on walking down to my workplace on Faiz Road in Jhandewalan when I noticed two men talking to each other and looking at me from the corners of their eyes. I sensed something fishy and started walking briskly. A moment later, one of them walked towards me and started hurling abuse at me,” Bisht said.
 
 “When I questioned him, he said I had had stepped on his foot and, to avenge the same, he hit me on my foot. I told him I was running late for work and that I didn’t have time for child’s play, but he kept throwing expletives at me even though I kept my cool,” he added.
 
 The snatcher then walked towards his accomplice, who was waiting for him on a scooter nearby, and they both drove past, hitting Bisht on his back. The impact dropped him to his knees.
 
 Bisht, already late, didn’t stop and went straight to his office barely a few metres ahead of the spot of the incident. As he was walking in, he noticed that two of his phones, which he had kept in either pocket of his trousers, were missing.
 
 “In an instant I guessed why the man had engaged me with unnecessary rage. Without wasting a moment, I took a chance and ran towards the road that led to Jhandewalan temple. The two were coming down on the wrong side of the road. I grabbed hold of their scooter as they drove past, causing them to fall. They, too, sensed that I knew they had my phones. And when I started to hit them, the phones fell out of the pillion rider’s pocket and he ran towards one of the narrow lanes,” said Bisht.
 
 He said the phones were not very expensive but that they “had a sentimental value attached to them.” 
 
