Namitha Pramod’s picked a dream project for her Kollywood debut – the Tamil remake of the National Award winner Malayalam film  , helmed by director  . It’s something that could have anyone on cloud nine, but not Namitha as the actress says she knows that every ounce of her performance would be measured against the Malayalam counterpart. The actress talks to us about doing justice to the role, her interesting name in the film titled   and more…
 
 
 I was told right at the beginning that the Tamil movie would be different from Maheshinte Prathikaram, though the basic story is the same. Nevertheless, I was excited that the remake of such a big project, which has many laurels to its credit, came my way. I always wanted to work with a director of Priyadarshan sir’s stature. The icing on the cake was when his associate, who called me to talk about the project, said that he specifically wanted me to do this character. We shot for around 40 days in Thenkasi, which was the main location, and we just wrapped up the production.
  
 
 My character’s name is  . I am not allowed to reveal more about it though. However, as the background is changed – the film has a Hindu setting, as opposed to the Christian in Malayalam – it reflects in the character too. The raw appeal of the characters in Priyadarshan films such as Kaalapani is intact in this film too. For one thing, he was very particular that I should wear a big bindi. My character also has long hair. After seeing myself on the screen, I felt that I have never looked prettier.
  
 
 I can handle Tamil well enough, and can also read a bit. But, the Tamil in Prathikaram was a lot tougher, as it’s the rural version of the language. The grammar is a lot different, and so is pronunciation. Thankfully, there were many in the crew who helped me with it. However, I am not sure whether I would be dubbing for my character in this film.
  
 
 Everyone knows how huge a celebrity he is in this industry and how multi-faceted he is. However, I have never seen a hero as simple and down to earth as him. I even learnt a lesson as to how someone who is so famous can be so simple as well.
  
 
 It was the awareness that your performance will have to be on par with that of the original, critically acclaimed film. I was conscious about that throughout the film and so, I was extremely careful in handling every bit of it. However, I guess, this is something that the whole team kept telling themselves. 
  
 
 Well, I don’t look at it that way. I take them as two roles in two different movies, and comparing one to the other isn’t required.
  
 
 I was doing Kammarasambhavam and Professor Dinkan in Malayalam, but they are delayed because of the actress assault case. As of now, I have not taken up any other project.
  
 
 No comments.
 
