Here it is: my latest foodie find… A brand new pure vegetarian restaurant (with social responsibility) that opened quietly in  . I got to know about it, thanks to  , the vivacious child psychologist, nutritionist and trained breastfeeding counsellor, who cooks superb Kottayam Appams to peanut butter. Dr  , one of India’s finest paediatricians past 50 years, author of the bestselling book on childcare (in five languages now), is a legend. It was a delight to learn about this inspirational couple’s love story since 1959, which will soon appear as a book. Our review follows.

 
 
 Located on the curve of the cacophonic Charni Road, TBH is a small, two-levelled eatery. A stairlift (for senior citizens), a colourful painted wall, jharokas and a simple table chair are the décor here.
 
 
 
 Parsi vegetarian? A contradiction in terms, but they manage to recreate the vibrant tangy flavours in the Salli Paneer and the robustly-spiced Dhan Dal with Potato Patiya. Named Mr Batliwala, the Parsi dishes are creatively served in glass bottles cut in half. Well-made Gujarati, Rajasthani and Sindhi dishes… Papad Khichiya, Ringna olo Bajra no Rotlo, Mag ni Dal and Papad nu shaak and Sindhi Koki. The absurd hybrid of “frachos” (French fries and nachos) is delicious. So is the Zucchini Kolokithi. It’s the desserts that take the cake — be it the moist and flavoursome Gulab Jamun Motichoor Ladoo Parfait, the Sindhi Singhar Barfi or crisp Jalebi.
 
 
 
 No napkins. Slow service. The Punjabi dishes lack punch and flavour. Lacklustre biryani and pizza. Disappointing Dhansak. Panki not available. No alcohol. Parking difficult.
 
 
 Open through the day, this pure vegetarian SoBo eatery is already packed. Partners Marzy F Parakh (Restaurateur and Corporate Caterer) and Parth Dalal and Sarthak Oza both qualified CAs and finance experts, have a passion for food in common. It shines through in their social responsibility-driven eatery and delicious regional Indian dishes, with a smattering of international dishes. Thankfully, no fusion here but a few dishes need fine-tuning. 
 
 Value-for-money pricing and lunching with 77-year-young Asha and 83-year-young Dr RK Anand. A delicious inspirational afternoon in this senior citizen-friendly eatery. Cheers! With ‘Ice Cream Soda’, of course!
 
