BHUBANESWAR: Oil minister   on Monday said law will take its own course in the case of his brother Soumendra against whom the state vigilance lodged a case for alleged irregularities by his cooking gas agency. 

 The state vigilance on Monday booked Soumendra and his three employees under the Essential Commodities Act, the Explosives Act and various IPC Sections including 420 (forgery), two days after raiding his agency in Angul district.
 
 "The state has the right to conduct inquiries under the Essential Commodities Act. They have done it. It should go to logical end," Dharmendra said. He was interacting with reporters in Delhi on the sidelines of an event. 
 
 "Nobody is above law. Whether he is my brother or any of my relatives, if they (government agencies) find some irregularities, law will take its own course," the minister said while speaking on the controversy for the first time. On whether it was political vendetta by the   government in the wake of CBI tightening noose around some BJD leaders in chit fund scam, he said, "I should not say (such a thing). I should not say because I am in-charge of this ministry. Every state has a right to enforce the Essential Commodities Act. They have done that," Dharmendra said. 
 
 The state BJP, meanwhile, attacked the BJD stating that the Naveen Patnaik-led party is scared of Dharmendra's growing stature.
 
  "The Naveen government is conspiring to ensure that poor women don't get the benefits of   because it is scared of the scheme and Dharmendra," said BJP leader  . He was referring to a decision of the Sonepur district administration not to issue new gas connections to people in view of the model code of conduct.
 
 Addressing a news conference, Prithviraj said, "The state government is using poll code as an excuse to stall LPG connections to poor though it has nothing to do with the model code of conduct."
 
 BJD spokesperson   said the party doesn't fear anybody. "Because of its desperation, the BJP is coming out with all baseless allegations," Satpathy said. 
 
