BATHINDA: Thirty seven farmers and   have committed suicide after the   came to power in the state on March 16.   is the reason behind these deaths. The government is trying to waive off   in the budget to be presented on June 15. 

 However, farmer organizations, claim more than 50 farmers have committed suicides in two months. As per a survey by the Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), Ludhiana, Punjabi University, Patiala, and Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU), Amritsar from 2000 to 2010, a total of 6,926 farm suicides were recorded in the state. 
 
 Out of these, 3,954 were of farmers and 2,972 of farm labourers.
 
 In the past two months, Mansa, Bathinda and Barnala districts of Malwa region have recorded the maximum number of suicides. Mansa and Bathinda witnessed eight farm suicides each while in Barnala six farmers or farm labourers committed suicide.
 
 In the run-up to the Punjab assembly elections, Capt Amarinder Singh, in his capacity as the state Congress chief, had asked farmers not to commit suicide and wait for his party to form the government. He had given the slogan 'Karja kurki khatam, fasal di poori rakam' (debt, land auction will stop, farmers to get full payment of crop). "That slogan however hasn't worked," said former Punjab minister Sikandar Singh Maluka of Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD).
 
 Eminent agriculture economist and the chancellor of the Central University Punjab (CUP) Sardara Singh Johl said, "All suicides are not due to farm debt. Diversion of money for marriages in the family or spending on vehicles or other things with no return value mainly lead to the accumulation of debt, which forces farmers to end their lives. To tackle such situations, the government should form settlement panels in every district. This way, we can at least contain the suicides due to debt. Moreover, farmers too need to stop spending a big amount unnecessarily."
 
 An economist from PAU said, "Farmers need to spend the loan money with caution for farming purposes. Spending the money on the things which have no return makes loans a liability for the peasants."
 
 Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokri and Krantikari Kisan Union (KKU) president Surjit Singh Phool said, "The Congress government so far has failed to provide solace to the bereaved families." Additional chief secretary (development) Satish Chandra, who is administrative in-charge of agriculture and allied sector in the state, said, "The Punjab government is looking to address the farm debt waiver. An expert committee is looking at steps to pull the indebted farmers out of financial mess. The meeting of committee will be held next week." 
 
 Punjab finance minister   said, "Our government is committed to providing relief to farmers as promised. The team of experts is finding ways to provide relief to farmers reeling under debt."
 
