HYDERABAD:   of   officers kicked off a controversy after Supreme Court issued notices to the state, challenging their appointment as an FIR pertaining to murder of a youth is still pending in Hyderabad courts.

 On November 30, 2004, Saifabad police lodged a murder case against Narendra Kumar Amin, then deputy superintendent of police, Ahmedabad crime branch, and his team member and former police inspector Tarun Banot, for gunning down Mujahid Saleem Azmi in Hyderabad. Amin has been reappointed SP of Mahisagar district just after his retirement. Also, Tarun Banot has been appointed deputy superintendent of police (DySP) (headquarters), Western Railways, in Vadodara after his retirement.
 
 The firing took place in front of erstwhile Andhra Pradesh DGP office while the controversial Muslim cleric Moulana Mohammed Naseeruddin of Saidabad was being shifted to Ahmedabad from Andhra Pradesh CID office in connection with the murder of former Gujarat home minister Haren Pandya. On the day, Saifabad police registered two counter cases, one against Muslim youths (in Cr.No.8822004,307 IPC, attempt to murder) for allegedly attacking   and another on Gujarat police after Raziuddin Naser (presently detained in Sabarmati Jail in terror case), younger son of Moulana Naseeruddin lodged a police complaint.
 
 Amin is alleged to have opened fire on Mujahid Saleem Azmi, son of Muslim cleric Maulana Abdul Aleem Islahi near DGP office at Lakdikapul, while the controversial Muslim cleric Maulana Mohammed Naseeruddin was being taken away to Gujarat in a case of criminal conspiracy.
 
 Initially, the two cases were transferred to SIT, in which many youth hailing from Saidabad were arrested. While SIT recorded the statement of youths under section 161 (CRPC) as eyewitness. The murder case against the Gujarat police team was later transferred to Saroonagar for investigation and since then investigations nor the status of the case has been updated before the concerned court.
 
 A bench headed by Chief Justice of India J S Khehar on Friday sought reply to a petition from the  
 
 Former IPS officer Rahul Sharma from Gujarat challenged the reinstatement of the two police officers. Sharma challenged the appointments, saying, “The contractual appointment of such retired officers with criminal antecedents is not in the interest of a   and sends a wrong signal to the society regarding the rule of law."
 
