AURANGABAD: With the   month set to start on Monday, police have formed several squads to keep a check on street crime, especially chain snatching.

 During this month scores of devotees go to temples in the early morning and evening hours. 
 
 Police will also intensify patrolling, by deploying more vans for the purpose. These vans will include those from the police control room, the damini squads and all-women squads that will also be deployed to keep a vigil on the streets, especially on the crowd heading to temples. There will be a   of devotees the entire month.
 
 A crime branch officer said that usually the Mahadev temples witness heavy rush on Mondays and Saturdays of Shravan. “Our sleuths will pay more attention to ensure safety and security of the devotees on these days,” he said.
 
 City commissioner of police   said that the police will also ensure there are no incidents of eve-teasing or stalking from Monday.
 
 “We not only intend to ensure zero incidents of chain snatchings, but also keep a tight vigil on any crime against women on streets. We have drawn up a strategy to ensure no house break in and thefts are committed in residential areas, during the time when devotees lock their houses and head to the temples,” Yadav said. 
 
 The officer said that though there are over 100 vehicles that are currently operating round the clock to patrol city streets, an additional bandobast has been arranged for the Shravan month. “Our teams, which are a part of the ‘good morning squads’, will work for extended hours to ensure smooth functioning,” he said.
 
 The city police department, along with its rural counterpart, has already diverted traffic on a series of roads. Apart from this, traffic police and patrol teams have been deployed to ensure smooth traffic flow.
 
 A police official warned women and senior citizens to avoid venturing out alone, while wearing gold ornaments. He also advised that they should keep an eye out for any suspicious persons.
 
 The police have appealed that in case they find someone suspicious, they should raise an alarm to alert others in the vicinity. 
 
 The matter should be brought to the notice of control room as well as the   post or station.
 
