NEW DELHI: To curb increasing lawlessness among advocates and to weed out fake ones, the   ( ) has suggested stringent measures, including debarring advocates from practising for participating in strikes or abstaining from court work.

 In its detailed suggestions to the Law Commission, which is drafting amendments to the Advocates Act on a reference made to it by the  , the regulatory body said the law should be amended to statutorily prohibit lawyers from boycotting or abstaining from work in courts.
 
 “No association of advocates or any member of the association, either individually or collectively, shall boycott or abstain from court work or cause obstruction in any form in court’s functioning during court’s working hours in court premises nor shall individually or collectively give a call for such boycott or abstinence from work during court hours,” the BCI said.
 
 Any lawyer indulging in such activities would be construed to have committed misconduct and will be liable to be debarred from practising in courts for a certain number of years or permanently.
 
 The matter was referred to the Law Commission by the SC, which was faced with a case on whether a convicted person could continue to practice in a court of law as an advocate.
 
 On this aspect, the BCI suggested that a person would be ineligible to be registered as an advocate if he/she was convicted for an offence involving moral turpitude, or contempt of court, or was dismissed or removed from employment by a state or state government undertaking for misconduct.
 
 The BCI also took serious note of a large number of fake advocates practising in courts, whose number BCI chairman   pegged at 40% of the total 21 lakh lawyers registered with bar councils.
 
 It suggested, “Any person who practises in any court or before any authority or person, in or before whom he is not entitled to practise under the provisions of the Advocates Act, shall be punishable with imprisonment which may extend to three years and with fine, which may extend to Rs 1 lakh,.
 
 This shall be in addition to penalty imposed under any other law for the time being in force.”
 
 The regulator also suggested speedy decision on complaints by litigants accusing their advocates of professional or other misconduct. 
 
 Giving a limit of six months for a decision on such complaints, the BCI suggested to the Law Commission that if a lawyer was found guilty, he/she should be fined up to Rs 3 lakh and should also be liable to pay compensation up to Rs 5 lakh to the litigant.
 
 “If the complaint against the advocate is found to be frivolous or vexatious, the litigant should be fined up to Rs 2 lakh,” the BCI suggested.
 
 Calls for strike and abstinence of work is common in trial courts across the country, which are groaning under a pendency of over 2.6 crore cases.
 
  has 51 lakh cases pending in its trial courts, which accounts for over 25% of total pendency in all states taken together. A   report given to the Allahabad high court listed 10 districts where lawyers disrupted trial court work for more than 100 days on an average every year for the last five years.
 
 In October last year, Law Commission chairman Justice B S Chauhan had told TOI, “Given this ground reality, even if the strength of trial court judges was increased substantially, how would they deal with pendency unless permitted to work by the advocates' associations?”
 
