BENGALURU: Multiple  , including foreign participants, but all eyes will be on the   (SKAT) - with a fleet of   and redefined maneuvers -while the helicopter display team Sarang will enthrall people with its trademark moves.

 The SKAT is back to thrill fans after having skipped two editions of Aero India. The team, coming back from a sabbatical, has a fleet of singleengine, jet-powered advanced Hawk aircraft that are faster and much more maneuverable than the Kiran aircraft used by the SKAT in the past.
 
 The team will feature only six aircraft this year unlike earlier when it used to operate nine. According to the team members, the strength will reach nine by April. The team has three new pilots and eight new members.
 
 The   are 1.8 times faster than the Kirans so there will be changes in the maneuvers performed by the team. The new 22 minute display include loops, barrel role, wingover, level time and formations like shockwave, Yankee, goblet and budge ­many of these moves are already in the team's catalogue, but the new machines, they promise, will be a new experience altogether.
 
 The popular heart loop, where the two aircraft make a heart and another aircraft goes through it like an arrow, will be missed this year.
 
 The Surya Kirans, part of the IAF's 52 Squadron, are also known as 'The Sharks' and are based in Karnataka's Bidar. The team was disbanded in 2011 to reallocate them for training purpose following a shortage of serviceable aircraft.
 
 The pilots who fly these metal birds come from various fighter aircraft squadrons. The existing team includes pilots who have over 2,000-hour experience of flying various IAF platforms. The team has former SU30MKI, MIG 29, Mirage 2000, MIG 25 and MIG 21. Pilots serving in the squadron are all Qualified Flying Instructors.
 
 Swedish, UK teams other attractions
 
 Aerobatic fans are also looking forward aerobatics teams from Sweden and UK. The Scandinavian air show and its wing walkers - daredevils comfortably mounted on an aircraft than strapped in the cockpit - were a huge hit during Aero India 2015. The two aerobatics teams and wing walkers had their practice runs on Sunday.
 
 The other aerobatics team, Yakovlevs, is the four-aircraft display team from UK. The team, which made their debut during the last aero show, flies four Russian-designed Yak aircraft. “... great fun and it's all starting to come together now,“ posted the Yaks on their Facebook page.
 
