AHMEDABAD/BENGALURU: The contest for the third Rajya Sabha seat in Gujarat is turning out to be a tense battle of nerves with Congress working hard to stave off a humiliating defeat which will impact party morale and BJP keen to score a prestigious win that will emphasise its political dominance.

 The stakes have further risen with Bihar CM   walking out of the “secular” camp to rejoin old ally BJP and the focus is squarely on the Gujarat joust featuring  , political secretary to Congress chief  , and  , who was Congress chief whip before his recent defection.
 
 The contest is high on drama as Rajput is also brother-in-law of Congress rebel Shankarsinh Vaghela whose decision to leave the party led to six defections, including that of his relative. 
 
 For all purposes Rajput is Vaghela’s candidate and BJP hopes the rebel leader will improve on the 11 cross votes he is believed to have ensured for NDA presidential candidate Ram Nath Kovind.
 
 Congress still has some surplus votes above the tally needed for Patel to win but reports are trickling in that the party is struggling to keep its flock together after dispatching 40 party MLAs late on Friday night to Bengaluru where they were holed up in a resort on the outskirts of the Karnataka capital.
 
 But sources said that at least three MLAs are insisting they be allowed to return to Gujarat to respond to calls for assistance in their flood-affected constituencies. 
 
 In fact, sources said Gova Rabari, Dharshibhai Khanpura and Mahesh Patel, all from Banaskantha district, had reportedly entered into an altercation with their group leader and AICC secretary, Naresh Raval, over their wish to return.
 
 However, when contacted, Bengaluru rural MP and coordinator from Karnataka Congress, D K Suresh, said there was no such altercation. “The MLAs have come to Karnataka of their own free will,” he said.
 
 Despite several attempts, all three MLAs were not reachable as their phones were reportedly not in their possession. There was tight security at the resort which was out of bounds for the media.
 
 BJP sources said Vaghela will be the main factor in the final result as 11 of 57 Congress MLAs did not vote for opposition nominee   in the presidential election. 
 
 They also claimed that some of the Congress MLAs corralled in Karnataka may also support Rajput if they were convinced that they did have a future in the party. Insiders said at least a dozen Vaghela loyalists are among the group of 40 lodged in Eagleton Resort. 
 
 They are expected to be joined by four more shortly before they embark on a sightseeing tour, Tirupati being a priority. The MLAs are expected to return only on the eve of the Rajya Sabha polls on August 8.
 
 A leader with a reputation for being politically astute, Patel is no pushover and Congress managers are pulling out all stops to ensure he coasts home. 
 
 Coming on the heels of the mahagathbandhan (grand alliance) breaking up in Bihar and a string of defections and rebellions in Uttarakhand, UP, Jharkhand and Assam, the contest is for more than just a Rajya Sabha seat.
 
 With Gujarat polls a few months away, BJP would like to put its rival under more pressure just as Congress would want to snub Vaghela. Chief minister   said BJP had nothing to do with the resignations of six Congress MLAs. 
 
 “The Congress is imploding in Gujarat, it is a sinking ship which MLAs are deserting.” The CM tweeted: “Our aim is relief & rehabilitation.   prefers resort and relaxation. Flood is our priority, fun theirs. People are best judges.” 
 
 Seven MLAs, including  , who resigned from the Congress and as leader of opposition, did not join the group. Vaghela's son Mahendrasinh, also an MLA, said it would be “very difficult” for Patel to win the RS election.
 
 Ashok Gehlot, the Congress’ general secretary incharge for Gujarat, defended the party's action and said “they (MLAs) were picked up, harassed, threatened and forced to quit.”
 
