 is one of the major festivals of India. It is celebrated throughout the country with great zeal and enthusiasm. It is considered as the day when good triumphs over the evil. It is the day when Lord Rama killed the ten headed demon King Ravana and gave the throne of his kingdom Lanka to his brother Vibhishana. Since that day, the day of Vijaya Dashmi is considered to be auspicious and festive by the people of India and is celebrated as the day that symbolizes the victory of Good over Evil. It holds a special memory in the minds of all those who have definitely been a part of this festival.
Here are the hotties and beauties of telly town talking about the festive celebrations.
 
 Helly Shah: Dussehra celebration all over India. It is known as Ravan dahan, which means burning of Ravana effigies. Huge Ravana idols are installed in open grounds, only to be burned down later by shooting an arrow lit on fire. The act signifies the victory of good over evil, which is believed to be the underlying motive and learning from the festival of Dussehra.
 
 Devoleena Bhattacharjee: Dussehra is always celebrated with a pomp and pageantry reminiscent of medieval times. In   and other parts of eastern India, it is celebrated as Durga Puja. Devotees wear new clothes and celebrate with music, dance, drama and foods. On the last day, images of the warrior goddess are taken out in procession and immersed in water bodies.
 
 Tejasswi Prakash: Dussehra is considered to be an auspicious time in   to start and buy new things. This is why you will see a number of Maharashtrians buying houses, cars, and even gold during Dussehra. Another popular custom in Maharashtra, especially among kids, it to exchange bidi leaves with their friends and family. These leaves represent gold and are called sonyachi pan.
 
 Shubhangi Atre: Families decorate their homes and prepare an elaborate spread of lamps and flowers. Women traditionally exchange gifts of coconuts, clothes and sweets. Vijayadasami is considered an auspicious occasion for children to commence their education in classical dance and music, and to pay homage to their teachers.
 
 Suyyash Rai: The Dussehra celebration includes the Ram Lila that consists of plays, recitations and music that recall the life of the legendary hero, Ram. In Delhi, many amateur troupes perform Ram Lila based on the epic story of Ramayana throughout the nine-day worship of Goddess Durga. Watching Ram Lila is always encouraging.
 
 Additi Gupta: Delhi has a blend of Ramlila and Durga Puja. There are almost 1000 Ramlila and 250 puja pandals events are held in the city. Durga puja has been organized in the capital city before independence and the prominent ones are the pujas at Kashmiri Gate, Chittranjan park and the New Delhi Kalibari. Dussehra celebrations at Delhi can be wonderful visit.
 
 Manu Punjabi: On the tenth day after nine days of  , many elaborate processions lead to the Ram Lila grounds where immense cracker-stuffed effigies of the demon Ravana and his brother and son explode to the cheers of thousands of spectators. Its a way we celebrate the victory of truth and good.
 
 Mahika Sharma: Durga or Dussehra is the most waited and celebrated festival of west Bengal, Assam mostly at especially in Tinsukia. Considered as the Mother of all celebrations, it is an event that transforms the whole city and sees frantic activity round the clock. Over crowded streets, huge pandals, minarets, domes, mountain cliffs, and magnificent lighting depicting current scenario or current affairs make the 4 days of celebrations an unforgettable event. People is seen celebrating the victory of Good over bad.
 
 Tanya Sharma: Vijayadashami is considered to be the day when Goddess Durga defeated the evil demon Mahishasura after fighting with him for 9 consecutive days. Another legend says that Dussehra is the day when Rama defeated Ravana and started his journey towards Ayodhya. So the day is very pure and posetive it encourages you to win over bad.
 
 Paras Babbar: On the day of Vijayadashami, several religious centers organize story or katha sessions with recitals of episodes from the Ramayana. Marigold flowers are used to decorate idols in homes and prayer rooms. Delicacies sweets are been made at home to celebrate the success of good over bad.
 
 Manish Goplani: Dussehra celebrations are fun and motivating all over India. We all are set to celebrate the festival of Vijayadashami in all its glory. From buying new clothes to preparing delicacies to burning Ravana effigies, Dussehra celebration in capital Ramlila ground is must to watch live once in a lifetime.
 
 
