Popular TV actress  , from Star Plus' show ' .- Bandi Yuddh Ke', has come out in support of actress   against 'Bhabhi Ji Ghar Par Hai'producer  .
 
  The actress has claimed that there used to be an abusive behaviour on the sets and their payments were also stopped.
  
  A few days ago, TV actress Shilpa Shinde filed an FIR against  , producer of the TV show ' ' accusing him of sexual harassment. But the producer duo Sanjay and Binaifer hit back by filing a criminal defamation case against her.
  
  
 
  
  However, now Sameskha Singh has also decided to come out in open to talk about ill experiences she faced while working with Sanjay and Binaifer during her earlier days in the industry. Sameksha debuted on TV with Binaifer's production house's show 'Zara'.
  
  Sameksha, who was seen in  's 'P.O.W', had an important role in the show and has done numerous Tamil, Telugu and Punjabi movies as well.
  
  While talking about her experience shooting for 'Zara', Sameksha claims that exactly the same happened with her of what happened with Shilpa Shinde. And so when she read about Shilpa's news in the newspapers, she decided to support her.
  
  She said they were made to work like labourers. "Binaifer's set's environment was really bad. No one treats actors like this. We used to be treated worse than factory workers. Binaifer used to abuse and talk to everyone and when people used to complain, she used to give it back. Binaifer used to take our close up shoots for 3-4 days and then in the end used to complaint that we don't give her dates. I used to keep waiting at my house for her call. When I complained, she would scold me. She used to tell us that we don't care about the quality, we just have to give the episode on time.
  
  
 
  
 
  
  She further alleges that the director used to abuse children on the sets. "I worked in that show for 1-2 years and went through a lot of emotional trauma. Our director was Pawan Sahu at that time and he used to abuse a lot. He behaved badly with the girls. Little girls also used to be on the sets. They used to come and ask about the meaning of some 'bad' words hurled at them by the director. When we complained to Binaifer about it, she would say that is how it works."
  
  'Zara' was my first TV show and the experience scared me so much that I didn't do much of TV after that. After so long I did Nikhil's 'P.O.W' and it was an amazing experience. I wish I got the same for my first show.
  
  Sanjay used to flirt, she says. "Our industry is such that people flirt and comment, but we know how to handle it our way. So, I never made an issue. For me the bigger deal was the set's environment. Apart from abusing, Binaifer used to create misunderstanding amongst actors which was wrong. She used to record our conversation, manipulate it and tell a different story to others. She always wanted to divide and rule."
  
  Sameksha says she fought for an year and then gave up. Sameksha complaint against Binaifer to CINTAA (Cine And Tv Artistes Association) for pending payment. "She openly accepts this. She tells everyone to accept what amount she is giving else she won't give that too. She treated everyone like her slave. She used to threaten everyone for ruining their image in public. After I filed the case, a legal cae was filed against me as well. I fought for one year and then gave up. I want to concentrate on my career now. But I don't want that Shilpa also gives up. I am not coming in support for only Sihlpa but for the truth and for everyone who has gone through this."
