Nagpur: Spreading the message of patriotism among the city’s youth, a lecture ‘Takat watan ki humse’ was organized by Udaan Ek Zep at Pandit Bachhraj Vyas High School, to mark ‘Kargil Vijay Diwas’ on Sunday. 

 Former flight lieutenant Shivali Deshpande was the keynote speaker. Deshpande spoke on what triggered the war and on the unparalleled bravery of the Indian troops at the border. “Indian   has fought three wars with Pakistan and   is a concrete example of the bravery of the Indian Armed Forces,” she said. 
 
 Encouraging the youth to respect and honour the Indian Army, Deshpande said, “We live in Nagpur which is quite far from the border so we must induce patriotism in our youths. We must remember the heroes of our nation every day, because we are safe here only due to their sacrifices.”
 
 Speaking about the reason of Kargil War, Deshpande said, “After the 1971 war, Pakistan realized that it cannot defeat India by fair means, so they started infiltrating terrorists into the country and started a proxy war and Kargil was the consequence of it.”
 
 Letting in on some more history behind the war, Deshpande said that there was an unwritten pact between the Indian and Pakistani Army to withdraw the deployed forces from the Line of Control (LOC) from November to March, but in 1999 Pakistan did not adhere to the pact and sent its forces 15km inside the Indian territory of LOC and captured the empty bunkers, which was the first trigger for the Kargil War.
 
 “The Pakistani troops were trying to take control of India’s National Highway 1, which connects Kashmir valley to Leh and is the only route for Indian troops to access their posts. Our armymen showed immense courage and gave a suitable reply to Pakistan in the war,” said Deshpande.
 
 Remembering the   of Kargil War, Deshpande said, “Many young military officers were martyred in the war. The most fearless battles were fought at Muntho Dhalo and Jubar Hill where Captain Manoj Kumar Pandey showcased audacious courage, leadership and presence of mind. He was later awarded   posthumously.” 
 
 
