BATHINDA: With the election contest from CM Parkash Singh Badal’s assembly constituency, Lambi, hotting up, AAP supremo Arvind Kejriwal held election meetings in five of its villages on Thursday and appealed to the people to show the way out to the SAD patriarch and   chief Capt Amarinder Singh.

 Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has fielded its MLA from Delhi’s Rajouri Garden assembly constituency, Jarnail Singh, from Lambi. Kejriwal’s statement came two days after Amarinder had filed his nomination from the CM’s constituency on Wednesday, and followed it up with a massive roadshow and a rally. 
 
 Badal had campaigned in Lambi till Thursday.
 
 During his rallies in Lambi, Sarawa Bodla, Burj Sidhwan, Fullu Khera and Killianwali villages, the AAP supremo said Badal and Amarinder were two sides of the same coin and their only agenda was to stop AAP from gaining power in Punjab. “They are willing to make any compromise for that (keeping AAP away), but cannot fool the people,” he said.
 
 Kejriwal added that Amarinder had decided to contest from Lambi at Badal’s behest. “As Amarinder will also contest, he will be able to divide the anti-incumbency votes between himself and AAP. People need to stay aware of the Congress-SAD propaganda,” he added.
 
 With a majority of voters in Lambi engaged in agriculture, the Delhi CM promised to waive the debt of farmers after AAP formed the government in Punjab. He assured to implement recommendations of the   on the minimum support price (MSP) for crops in three years of forming the government.
 
 He also promised to increase the pension for widows, old persons and physically-handicapped persons to Rs 2,500 per month and promised to create 25 lakh jobs by promoting industry in Punjab. The AAP leader said it did not matter who would be the chief minister of Punjab, but it would be his responsibility to fulfil promises made by the party to the people of the state.
 
 Kejriwal added that persons responsible for desecration of Guru Granth Sahib would be given exemplary punishment. AAP’s Lambi candidate, Jarnail, said his party would end ‘goondaraj’ from Punjab after the formation of government. He announced that henchmen of Badal would be sent to jail for their wrong doings.
 
 
