KOLKATA: State and central investigating agencies have started mapping properties and land assets owned by former Trinamool Rajya Sabha member  . A small portion of the total assets is a 20-acre land the group had purchased inside the   at Andal, promoted by the Bengal Aerotropolis Project Ltd. The state government is one of the stakeholders in this prestigious project. 

 According to sources, the group had initially approached BAPL through realty service company JLL for 50 acres of land. JLL started negotiating with BAPL. But the company could not pay the money for 50 acres and had to settle for 20 acres for around Rs 30 crore. Law empowers the state investigating agency - Directorate of Economic Offences (DEO) - to seize the property if it has satisfactory ground to do so with the special court's permission.
 
 Whatever the DEOs decides, it won't affect the 2,000-acre airport city project. Sources said Alchemist is among hundreds of such companies and individuals who purchased land from BAPL. The promoters are not bothered with such a small portion of land that they can do away with, if the situation so demands. 
 
  The group also has several assets in Darjeeling, Jalpaiguri and Kolkata. It could be a coincidence, but the fact is that the group started losing interest in Bengal after Singh fell out with Trinamool. It started acquiring properties in Delhi, Chandigarh and Simla instead through 16 companies under it. 
 
 "Since the DEO can only seize and auction sites from Bengal, our primary concern is the properties in this state. Till date, most of the properties bought by Alchemist are in north Bengal," a source said.
 
 Alchemist - whose journey in Bengal began in 2004 in Durgapur through a hatchery - is believed to have sold off most of its properties here. "We are not yet sure how much of the property we can confiscate," said a source.
 
 According to sources, Alchemist Holdings and Alchemist Infra Realty owned most of the properties across India till 2013. The group raised more than Rs 1,400 crore from the market through unauthorised schemes when SEBI first took note of it in 2013. Alchemist Holdings mobilised Rs. 444.67 crore by issuance of redeemable preference shares. It allotted these shares to 4.26 lakh people on a private placement basis. The documentation once again was done by SEBI.
 
 
