NEW DELHI: A group of inmates went on a rampage in   on Thursday night, inflicting injuries on themselves, threatening jail officials and damaging property, including an ambulance. The prison authorities, however, responded quickly and brought the rioters under control, but not before 11 inmates of Tihar’s Jail No 3 had received injuries.

 The drama began at 11.30 pm when one of the inmates of Kasuri ward sought medical attention after complaining of severe stomach pains. The warden got a doctor to attend to the man. After giving him some medicines, the doctor assured the inmate that he would be fine. But the convict insisted that his condition was worsening and that he should be taken to hospital.
 
 On hearing this, other inmates in the ward also demanded to be taken to hospital. The situation worsened when the doctor stepped out of the ward and the men started a brawl. Sudhir Yadav, director general (Prisons), disclosed that while no sharp weapons seem to have been used, the inmates hurt each other and many of them were bleeding profusely from their injuries.
 
 In the melee, 17 inmates were injured, with 11 of them requiring to be taken to   for treatment. “On their way to hospital, they damaged the ambulance and broke its seats,” Yadav added. The men also challenged and threatened the jail officials accompanying them.
 
 The injured were later referred to   for CT scans, where they created another ruckus. “Most of the inmates received stitches for their wounds. They were discharged on Friday morning and brought back to the jail,” said a jail official.
 
 Police said they received a call about the fight around 1 am. “Preliminary investigations suggest that there was a scuffle among the inmates. The jail authorities are conducting an internal investigation but we have registered an FIR against the prisoners under Sections 186, 353 and 355 of the Indian Penal Code for assaulting and using criminal force to deter public servants from discharging their duties. The Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act has also been invoked,” said Vijay Kumar, DCP (West).
 
 A senior police officer added that the prisoners were allegedly protesting against being kept in a special security ward. The prisoners had been confined to this ward, on the court’s permission, for “repeated offences” within the jail. “This is not the first time that they have been involved in a fracas,” said an officer. “They often instigate violence and create problems for the warders and jail staff.”
 
 
