JAIPUR/JAISALMER: The state intelligence agencies are seeking to block signals of Pakistani mobile networks in the border villages of Jaisalmer and Barmer. This is being done after sleuths discovered that suspected ISI spy, Haji Khan, was frequently communicating with his handlers across the border using a Pakistani SIM card.

 The sleuths of state intelligence agencies have found that Pakistani mobile networks such as Mobilink have networking signals near border villages, “Haji Khan admitted during interrogation that he had obtained a SIM from Pakistan and had been using it in Jaisalmer to share confidential information with his Pakistani handlers,” the official said, adding that penetration of foreign networks in border villages risks nationals security. 
 
 “We successfully clamped down on wavelengths of Radio Pakistan which was widely accessible in Jaisalmer’s Ramgarh village. But blocking mobile signals is not an easy task as signals do spill over across the border,” said  , IG, security. 
 
 The Rajasthan police have asked both the state and the central government to ensure effective clamp down on these foreign signals. “Many people in border villages frequently visit Pakistan to attend weddings and family gatherings. ISI absorbs them in Pakistan and providex Pakistani SIM cards to them,” the official said.
 
 The sleuths of   (BI) had arrested  , Bariyam Khan and Haji Khan for indulging in espionage activities, the sleuths had recovered multiple phones and SIM cards from the trio.
 
 CID-BI additional SP, Rajeev Dutta, said that Pakistani mobile signals being received in Indian area is a matter of grave concern and the issue can be resolved at a high level meetings. “Pak mobile signal are being received through different frequencies and network, and therefore we do not have any technique through which the signal can be jammed or stopped,” an official said. 
 
 The official said that tracing the location of Pakistani SIM cards is an arduous task and even getting call details records from such cards remains an uphill task. 
 
 Dutta said issue has been raised at several high level meetings between India and Pakistan. “Letters were sent to Pakistani officials, asking them to put jammers or to uninstall their mobile towers,” he said.
 
