MELBOURNE:   sank into the court, arms outstretched, victory cry signalling the triumph. Title No. 23. Venus' shot that didn't quite make it on the first match-point gave her younger sibling the Open Era record for most majors won. The 36-year-old rushed over and pulled   on to her feet and crushed her in a hug. They stood that way for a while, locked in each other's arms, an awe-inspiring sister act.

 The 35-year-old's march to her seventh   title was completed in 1 hour and 22 minutes. The 6-4, 6-4 win took her past German legend   's record, leaving her one short of Margret Court's all-time haul of 24 majors. Serena, richer by $3,700,000 for her victory, which also ensured she returned to the top of the WTA rankings, paid an emotional tribute to her older sibling.
 
 "There's no way I'd have gotten to 23 without Venus, no way I'd have gotten one without her. She's my inspiration, the only reason I'm here today and the only reason the Williams , sisters exist," Serena said before urging the crowd to applaud Venus' courageous comeback.
 
 
  
 Venus, holding her runner-up prize, began with an introduction.
 
 "Serena Williams, that's my little sister, guys... Congratulations on 23. I lost some of those to you, I was there for some and even when I wasn't there, I was there. Your victory is my victory .
 
 God willing I want to come back next year, thank you all for the love."
 
 
  
 
  
 The sister act was on display only after the final point, before that it was a powerful exchange, crushing counters and unbounded athleticism.
 
 In the pre-match routine, where the coin toss is followed by a round of photographs, the older sibling quietly slipped her arm around the younger, more celebrated family member, not something she does with other opponents. The second seed, in her ninth major final with Venus, waded into the contest with her brand of intense competitiveness, only 11 minutes into the match Serena complained to British chair umpire Alison Hughes about the crowd cheering between points, she then broke a racket, earning a code violation warning. She even challenged a call early in the game, not something she does often, but against an opponent who has had her measure more than any other, she threw it all in there. Serena, kid sister, fierce competitor. At the other end, Venus was all grace and grit.
 
 After a couple of service exchanges early in the set, done with little sisterly affection rather with the irritation of pioneering athletes stalled in their charge, Serena served out the first set, finishing with two aces and celebrating with a fist pump.
 
 The   Arena, packed to capacity , was curiously muted, cheering both women but just a little louder for the sentimental favourite Venus, urging the 36-year-old with shouts of 'come on Venus', 'Come on V'.
 
 In the beginning of the second set the seven-time major winner ­ who in 2011 was diagnosed with Sjogren's Syndrome, a chronic auto-immune disease that can cause fatigue and tiredness ­ showed signs of tiring.
 
 At two-games all, Venus sensed that while it was perhaps enough for Serena to play true, she needed to go for more, higher and stronger, to steer the match away from the direction it was headed in. She then got ahead to 3-2. In the seventh game, Serena eked out a breakpoint, following a 16-point rally, clenching her fist, sensing the finish.
 
 She swung at a return with her two-hander on her next opportunity to break Venus ­ whose tightly twisted hair bun was beginning to come apart ­ and get ahead 4-3. After Serena held serve in the eighth game, Venus pulled one back, forcing her sibling to serve for the Championship, thereby giving herself another crack at the biggest serve in the women's game.
 
 Venus gave it all she had and Serena tried to find her way around everything that was coming at her. At 30-30 her fiancé, Reddit co-founder Alexis Ohanian, was on his feet cheering, pointing at his heart. Serena closed out on her first match point.
 
