PATNA: Security has been beefed up at senior   functionary Sushil Kumar Modi’s official residence at 1, Polo Road and his private house at Rajendra Nagar following the CBI raids on RJD chief Lalu Prasad and his family members in Patna on Friday and the Enforcement Directorate (ED) raids on Lalu’s daughter   and her husband   in New Delhi on Saturday.

  has launched a tirade against the alleged benami properties amassed by the Lalu family since April 5 this year.
 
 Total 22 additional police personnel were deployed at the official and private residences of Modi on Friday night itself. Earlier, there were only 10 police personnel at both the locations. Eleven police personnel are providing personal security to Modi. 
 
 The state police headquarters has also asked the Patna police to increase the security at ED office near Gandhi Maidan.
 
 Threat perception to Modi has increased as the central agencies have started acting against Lalu and his family after Modi started firing salvos at Lalu family.
 
 However, Modi said he did not ask for any increased security cover. “Lalu at present is very weak. I have faced Lalu when he was at his peak of power in 1996. At that time, Sadhu Yadav and Mohammad Shahabuddin were roaming free in the state,” Modi said, adding that he has never written to the state government for any type of security.
 
 “The state government on its own should decide on my security,” he said adding he spotted additional security personnel at his Rajendra Nagar residence and later at his official residence after the CBI raids on Lalu.
 
 Meanwhile, Patna high court lawyer  , who has filed four different PILs against Lalu and his family for allegedly acquiring benami properties, said police did not provide him any security.
 
 “The Patna high court on May 19 had asked the state government about my security after I got threat calls to withdraw the petitions, but till date nothing visible has been done by the police,” said Sengar. 
 
 Sources said the special branch had twice assessed the threat perception to Sengar, but he has yet not been provided security cover.
 
 When asked, ADG (headquarters) S K Singhal said the special branch had not received any input on the issue. “I would have to look into the matter,” he said. 
 
 
