KOZHIKODE: The dream for a national institute of shipbuilding unit is likely to have an abrupt end with union government’s decision to turn down the proposal for the project. The Union finance ministry rejected the proposal by the defence ministry to set up   (national institute for research and development in defence shipbuilding) at Chaliyam pointing out financial constraints.

 Minister of state for defence   said that the government was setting aside the proposal for Nirdesh owing to opposition from the ninistry of finance. 
 
 The blow came at a time when Nirdesh was set to commence the designing activities of vessels.
 
 “The state government handed over 40 acres of land for Nirdesh hoping that the project would bring in development,” said V K C Mammadkoya, MLA of Beypore. Large number of local tradesmen and industrialists would have been able to work in the ancillary industrial sector, he added.
 
 The foundation stone for Nirdesh, an autonomous institution planned for constructing and designing warships and submarines for the government, was laid in 2011 by the then defence minister A K Antony. 
 
 It was assured that Nirdesh would develop nearly 15,000 different components, of which 25% will be of critical importance in the construction of a ship, in the initial phase of the project.
 
 There were also plant to it into to a centre of excellence in guiding research, development, and training required for achieving total self-reliance in warship and submarine building in India to help the country emerge as a powerful force among international agencies like the defence advanced research projects agency in USA.
 
 M K Raghavan, member of parliament from Kozhikode, alleged that a section of officials in the defence ministry were against the setting up of ship designing unit at Kozhikode, adding that the defence minister was supportive of the project.
 
 “I had met the Union finance minister 3-4 times requesting the consent of the finance ministry for the project. The support of the prime minister was also sought,” said  .
 
  “However, we will not give up hope to get cabinet nod for Nirdesh and will our continue efforts to get consent for the project,” he added.
 
