GURUGRAM: Chief minister   will meet Union road and highway minister Nitin Gadkari on July 20, to give the   project a fresh push. 

 This will be the first time the two will be meeting since June, when NHAI issued notification granting national highway status (NH-248BB) to the 28km-long road.
 
 NHAI is currently preparing a detailed project report (DPR) for construction of the portions of the e-way which remain to be built. This includes acquiring land for a stretch in Delhi. “The CM will also discuss other issues related to the Expressway with the Union minister,” said a senior government official.
 
 Of the road’s 18.1km that falls in Gurgaon, only a stretch of around 1.4km in New Palam Vihar (~1 km) and Kherki Daula village (~400 metre) remains to be built. In Delhi, a 6.5km stretch from Shiv Murti to Bharthal Chowk is part of the existing UER-II. The remaining 3.4km stretch, from Bharthal Chowk to the Delhi-Haryana border, needs to be built. Flyovers across the expressway have been proposed at intersections. NHAI is also planning to connect sector and other roads in adjoining areas with the Expressway. “Sector and other roads will be given access to the Expressway, but in some cases, where two roads are expected to merge with the Expressway at very close distance, NHAI has submitted some queries with Huda, as access to the Expressway can’t be given at close intervals,” said   administrator  . NHAI has asked Huda to respond before the meeting is held. 
 
 Basai road, for example, overlaps with the proposed road dividing sectors 99 and 102. The two roads are also close by. NHAI has asked Huda to confirm which one should be given access to the Expressway. Similarly, the Kherki Majra village road, also known as Dhanwapur road, near the road dividing sectors 103 and 102A, are adjacent. “Dhanwapur road is not shown in the development plan. The road dividing sectors 102A and 103 does not cross the Expressway. Huda will have to confirm which road is to be considered for developing an interchange,” said NHAI in its communication to Huda.
 
 “Huda superintendent engineer has been asked to survey the area and take a decision on these,” said Yadav, adding they will soon communicate the status of roads to NHAI.
 
 
