GURUGRAM: Amid   that wouldn’t look out of place in a song-and-dance number of a 1990s Bollywood flick, well over 5,000   from Gurgaon and around converged over the weekend for the fifth edition of the   adventure race and carnival.

 At the magnificently named Camp Tikkling – located in the heart of the Aravalis, well away from the bustle of   – grown-ups and youngsters spent their Sunday indulging in a bit of adventure, and enjoying the restorative warmth of the winter sun.
 
 Among the fun and games was an adventure zone for kids, and one for adolescents (as well as their mums, dads, uncles and aunties), which featured a mini zip line, zorbing and rock climbing. Elsewhere, one could attempt a bungee jump, or zip around on a quad bike. You could also live out your soldierly fantasies by playing bang-bang in fatigues (paint balling – with paints pellets, of course). There was also hot-air ballooning, though only if the wind was fair enough for the balloons to take flight.
 
 The carnival’s highlight was the obstacle course, as short as 3km, stretching to 5km. Here, participants had to answer questions posed by the topography (besides those set by man). Clamber up or scramble down? Wade through cold water or slither under barbed wire? Obstacles were placed at intervals, across farmland, standalone thickets of trees, marshes and craggy outcrops.
 
 Stamina, strength and speed are tested, as is the ability to make decisions under taxing conditions. The ‘run’ ended with a ‘porcupine pit’, a dug-up maze through which the contestant had to wriggle before climbing a ladder to ring a bell, which announces race’s end. 
 
 Away from the adventure pursuits was a space that throbbed with energy, part disco, part sound system. Stages at each end (and one on the side, too) battled for everyone’s attention. And no carnival can be complete without a Bollywood celebrity, and   played her role to the hilt, joshing and flirting with the crowd (not surprisingly, the ‘Selfie with Neha’ competition was well received).
 
 
