COIMBATORE: A local court has turned down the plea of the special investigation division of Crime Branch-CID, Coimbatore, seeking the nod to collect strands of hair of six people arrested in connection with the murder of atheist H Farook for a DNA test.

 The petition filed before the Principal District Judge (PDJ) court last week said they had found strands of hair in Farook’s palm and wanted to conduct a DNA test to find whether they matched with those of the arrested. However, defence counsel Zakariya filed a counter petition on Tuesday and argued the city police, who initially investigated the case, hadn’t mentioned about the hair and also questioned the accused in this regard.
 
 “The police reports clearly indicated that Farook had sustained injuries in both hands. So the chances of him grabbing the attackers’ hair while struggling for life are low. The CB-CID is trying to divert the investigation and the court should not allow the petition. If the judicial system allows this petition, the investigation agencies would follow the same procedure in future,” Zakariya said.
 
 After hearing both the sides, Judge R Pongiappan dismissed the prosecution petition on Tuesday evening.
 
 Farook H, 31, of Bilal Estate, South Ukkadam, was hacked to death on March 16 by a six-member gang in front of a slaughter house for sharing views against Islam on his Facebook page and WhatsApp group.
 
 Anshath, of Podanur, surrendered before the Judicial Magistrate Court–V in connection with the case on March 17, and Saddam Hussain and Samsudheen followed suit on March 20. Meanwhile, Big Bazaar Street police arrested Farook’s close friend Abdul Munaf, Jaffar Ali and Akram Sindhaa on March 22.
 
 The police had taken three-day custody for Anshath, Saddam Hussain and Samsudheen and later they were lodged in the Coimbatore Central Prison. The city police also slapped Goondas Act on the six.
 
 As the city police couldn’t make any headway, the case was transferred to the special investigation division of Crime Branch-CID, Coimbatore, and DSP Velan was appointed investigating officer.
 
 
