Gurgaon: Suspended former in-charge of the police arms licence branch Jasmer Singh, whose name has cropped up as an alleged collaborator in the fake arms  , has gone missing. 

 TOI had on Tuesday reported that Singh, one of the four suspected cops in the scam, was linked to a gun house in Gurgaon that belongs to one of his relatives.
 
 Sources said two other cops — joint CP’s reader ASI Vikas and branch head constable Mahesh — are also yet to join the probe being carried out by a special investigation team (SIT). The head of the arms licence branch, Virender Singh, was arrested last Friday for allegedly providing no-objection certificates to the mastermind without maintaining any official record. Virender Singh has been suspended. 
 
 “Inspector Jasmer Singh is missing from the police lines without any information, and departmental inquiry will be conducted against him. The leave of ASI Vikas will soon be cancelled. We will also write to the police training centre in Madhuban to send head constable Mahesh back to   to join the probe,” ACP Anil Yadav, head of SIT, said.
 
 TOI had last week reported that the mastermind in the scam, Manish Bhardwaj alias Kala, currently in police custody, had named the four cops as his collaborators. According to sources, Bhardwaj told cops during interrogation that he had given the four their “share” of the spoils, on the basis of each licence registered. Bhardwaj claimed he had paid Rs 50,000 to Rs 1 lakh per licence to both the former and the present in-charges of the licence branch.
 
 It may be noted that Gurgaon police had last month unearthed the scam and an FIR was registered against Bhardwaj and his accomplice, Mohan Lal, for allegedly getting fake licences of 15 firearms renewed in the city.
 
 A probe by joint commissioner of police, Sibas Kabiraj, revealed that fake licenses were issued in connivance with staff of joint commissioner’s office, agents and other departments. 
 
 Following this, the four cops were suspended. A total of six accused have been arrested in the scam till date.
 
 
