NEW DELHI: It has been 11 years since the last students’ union   in  , leaving students chafed that their “democratic rights have been curbed”. To counter the university administration’s opposition to political activities on the campus, a number of student organisations have formed the   (JAC) to work in tandem with the authorities and possibly effect a change of thought.

 Meeran Haider informed TOI on Tuesday that JAC was formed to pursue a united agenda and comprises   Students’ Forum, the Congress-affiliated National Students’ Union of India, Aam Aadmi Party’s student wing, Chhatra Yuva Sangharsh Samiti, All India Students’ Association, Muslim Student’s Forum and other independent organisations.
 
 The Jamia students’ union was disbanded in 2006 after a scuffle between the union president and the university proctor over the former having a say in the allotment of hostel seats, which the administration was loathe to agree to. In 2011, student Hameed Ur Rahman approached Delhi high court on the matter, but Rahman said Delhi’s lieutenant governor of the time told the court that the environment in Jamia was not conducive for polls. “The court then set up a five-member committee to conduct union elections, but this step was not accepted by the administration,” Rahman added.
 
 Vice-chancellor Talat Ahmed claimed to be in favour of the polls and said he had wanted elections to a Jamia Student Council. He alleged that some student leaders had opposed the move. Haider countered that such a council would have been a “dummy body for the VC to dissolve anytime”.
 
 Ahmed reiterated that since the matter was sub-judice he could not allow union elections for now. “It could be possible if the former student withdrew this petition in the high court,” he said. He also said that he would wait for the JAC to approach him on the issue. Rahman felt that “if the VC is keen on conducting elections, he can write me a letter and I will take back my petition”.
 
 A student activist confided, “A certain section of Jamia teachers do not want student’s union elections because they feel the politics of the campus will affect the local politics of the area.” However, CYSS member Mohammad Naqi said circumstances had changed and “an election will help make the voice of Jamia students heard”.
 
 
