MUMBAI: A yarn-producing company took a total of Rs 700 crore as loans from a consortium of public sector banks with the intention of defrauding them and managed to siphon off Rs 95 crore from a few banks. However, the   (I-T) department's investigation wing stepped in to stop the release of the rest of the money and is now probing the case.

 The company has its headquarters in Mumbai and manufacturing unit in Rajasthan. It took the help of an entry operator to convert the bank loan amount into cash with the help of fictitious transactions. It convinced the banks to release Rs 95 crore of the loan amount for purchase of capital goods.
 
 The entry operator collected a cheque from the company in the name of a shell firm and returned the money in cash after deducting his commission. I-T sources said the operator had admitted to tax officials he had converted Rs 95 crore into cash through layers of transactions in the name of shell companies.
 
 I-T officials searched the company's premises and collected several documents for examination. Officials learnt the company had increased its share value over five times --from Rs90 to Rs460 -within a year of inflating its business activities drastically on books of accounts. This increased the company's worth and it mortgaged its share with banks to get big loans for business activities, including for purchasing capital goods.
 
 Investigators will get in touch with   officials to find out how the company managed to increase its sha re price drastically. The company was not doing any substantial business to justify increase in share price. The investigators will also question bank officials on how the loans were sanctioned.
 
 An I-T official said, “Such a modus operandi has been adopted to defraud public sector banks and cause loss to the government.“
 
 The company reportedly wanted to siphon off the entire loan amount with the help of shell companies before declaring itself as an NPA (non-performing asset) by showing inability to pay back the loan amounts to the banks. In the recent past there have been several instances where firms have taken huge loans from public sector banks with the help of fabricated documents and defaulted on payment, causing huge losses to the government.
 
