UDAIPUR: The track laying work under the   conversion project remained obstructed at Behna gram panchayat in Dungarpur district for the second consecutive day on Friday as hundreds of villagers staged   and raised slogans against the Railways. 

 Villagers said they will not let the Railways lay the broad gauge line, which they claim was being laid through their fields impeding agricultural work which is their only source of livelihood. They demanded that an underbridge should be built so that villagers face no problems in taking cattle for grazing. 
 
 Meanwhile, the railway authorities said these grievances were under consideration and a solution would be found soon. 
 
 “The villagers had approached us a few days back and the problem is being addressed which will take some time. We have received a recommendation from the collector to make an underbridge and we are examining it. It has to be determined whether the budget would be spent by the Railways or the state government,” Punit Chawla, divisional railway manager, Ajmer, said.
 
 The   had approved permanent closure of Ahmedabad-Himmatnagar meter gauge sections for gauge conversion. 
 
 Currently, dismantling of the existing meter gauge track, laying and linking of broad gauge main lines, loop lines, sidings including points and crossings, spreading of ballast, tampering of track and other ancillary works are going on at Jaisamand road, Semari and Rishabdeo road yards in Udaipur-Dungarpur section. 
 
 According to the villagers, the settlements are on one side while the fields are on the other side, some 1.5 km from their homes. 
 
 The only way leading to the fields has been blocked by the Railways to lay the new track. The track would also create a divide between the fields, thus hindering the irrigation of crops, they alleged.
 
 In protest, the villagers drove away the vehicles transporting the construction material to the site. Sarpanch Salma Damor, Govind Damor, Upsarpanch Bhagwan Patel, Premji Patel and many others staged a dharna at the spot. The villagers also complained of not being given any compensation by the Railways.
 
 
