Mumbai: The performance of a company’s board cannot be viewed from the prism of   alone. Globally, several reports have shown that companies that have women representatives on their boards perform better than those which don’t. However, a study of   (RoE) of the top 100   companies in India, done by   exclusively for TOI, shows there’s no direct correlation between a company’s   and gender diversity.

 The study, which is based on data for three fiscal years (FY2014, FY2015 and FY2016), reveals an increase of 37% in the number of women representative on various boards — from 97 in 2014 to 133 in 2016. However, it also reveals a dilution in the average RoEs for the overall BSE 100 over the three-year period. This, experts said, has nothing to do with gender diversity or the lack of it. 
 
 The results of a similar study of BSE 100 companies done by Randstad for TOI in 2014 were more in line with global studies. The 2014 study showed companies with women board members reported improved RoEs as compared with those that had only male board members. Clearly, the variations in the two studies — based on the same parameters — underscores the fact that a board’s performance goes beyond gender diversity.
 
 Moorthy K Uppaluri, MD & CEO, Randstad India, said the decline in RoE in the latest study is more a reflection of the deterioration of the macro-economic factors that were at play, affecting the industry at large. “Our survey findings clearly show how these factors had an impact on the business performance of organisations — 65 of the BSE 100 companies have had negative RoEs over the three-year period,” said Uppaluri.
 
 The HR services provider found that the RoE of companies having no woman director on their boards declined by 4% over FY14-16. However, the decline in RoE for companies with at least one woman director was even steeper at 9%. Companies that had only one woman director reported a reduction of 6% in RoE between FY14 and FY16, while those with more than one woman director saw a decline of 13.8%.
 
 Kalpana Unadkat, senior partner at Khaitan & Co, said the blame for a decline in RoE of an organisation cannot fall on women directors alone. A board’s performance, she said, needs to be viewed collectively. “There is no gender correlation for a board’s performance although there have been studies done globally which state that a company’s board would perform better if there are women representatives on the board. Given the market conditions, the companies would have reported negative RoEs even with all-male boards.”
 
 Following the mandate for publicly listed companies to have at least one woman director on the board, there was an increase in composition of women as a percentage of total board seats from 9% in 2014 to 12.3% in FY16. Uppaluri said, “If we take a closer look at our research data excluding the BFSI & manufacturing sectors, the RoE for the companies analysed is essentially up 2.3% (overall), and for companies with at least one woman director the RoE has gone up 1.9%, over the three-year period.” Uppaluri added that quality of earnings (better margins) is a key parameter for ensuring a good return on equity.
 
 Ashok Jain, company secretary and VP (finance),  , said that better RoE or performance of the company is not directly linked to a gender-balanced board. “We do not think that increasing the women members on the board will alter the RoE in any way, but we agree that this will give a company the strength to understand the demand preferences of the women consumers,” said Jain.
 
 Jain said what matters is the company’s business and how well the board is able to manage that business with the help of the current management. Jain said a slew of other factors that also mattered to a board’s functioning include product innovation, demand-supply gap, adaptation to technological and consumer preference cycles, import/export potential, cost efficiencies, effective management of risks associated with the business, control and governance practices in the company, sound and quick decision making, cost of borrowings and effective management of available funds.
 
 More than gender diversity, experts said the right fitment on the board is key to an organisation’s RoE. “One thing is clear — women cannot take direct credit for the success of a board or negative criticism when RoEs are down. Diversity of board in all terms, including gender, is important. But a board member’s fitment and what s/he brings to the table is equally important,” said Unadkat of Khaitan & Co.
 
 
