By 
 
 In a city that is bursting at the seams with vehicular overpopulation, its first citizen, mayor  , has planned to buy a   using the   by doing away with a four-year-old car assigned to her, the only reason being that it broke down twice last week.
 
 The transport officials have initiated the process of buying the new car on the basis of a request made by Padmavati. The mayor has selected a brand-new seven-seater Innova Crysta with an ex-showroom price of Rs 18.14 lakh.
 
 The present car, will be used for some other purpose by the BBMP, while adding a seven seater vehicle in its place – a case for adding vehicles to the road instead of repairing the not-so-old one to make do for a while longer.
 
 In 2012, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike had bought three new cars at a cost of Rs 54 lakh, which were used by the then mayor D Venkatesh Murthy, his deputy L Srinivas and the then ruling party leader N Nagaraju (Byarsandra corporator). The one being used by Padmavati now is one of the three which was then being used by Venkatesh Murthy. The car has run a little over three lakh kilometres.
 
 The decision to buy a new car was taken after the present car broke down twice last one week, Padmavati said. “First it broke down in the head office premises itself; the second time it broke down near Basavangudi when I was heading to reach   to attend a function chaired by chief minister Siddaramaiah. I was 20 minutes late and even the chief minister asked me why I was late. I did not tell him the facts but the faulty car was the reason,” she said.
 
 But this takes the cake: Padmavati claimed she belongs to the middleclass family background and does not require a luxurious life; “but to inspect various works and visit different locations, I need a good car. Inspections and other things can be achieved in any small car also, but the driver of my car insisted that I buy a new car as the existing car was used by four mayor’s, including me,” she said.
 
 One of the staffers working in mayor’s personal section said mayor Padmavati had to sit in the car for over 20 minutes after her car broke down near Basavangudi. “The car was not starting as plugs and even the battery was not functioning properly. A few people had to push-start the car, which was an insult to the first citizen,” he said, not willing to be identified.
 
 The file for procuring the new car has been sent to the taxation and finance standing committee, seeking its approval.
 
 Interestingly, a few chairmen of standing committees, too, have demanded new cars upon learning about the mayor’s plan to purchase a new car.
 
 But, according to sources in the BBMP, the mayor has strictly refused, saying that the civic agency does not want unnecessary additional expenditure to the exchequer.
 
