PUNE: Former revenue minister Eknath Khadse’s clout in Jalgaon is on the wane and the anti-corruption bureau’s FIR against him in connection with the   land deal on Monday could curtail his dominance further.

 Khadse’s supporters stressed the process of isolating him in the BJP was near completion with water resources minister and BJP bigwig Girish Mahajan openly locking horns with him for controlling the district politics. In the recent zilla parishad elections, Mahajan — a five-term member of the   representing Jamner constituency in Jalgaon district — dominated the scene. The BJP leadership stood behind him.
 
  and his supporters were sidelined in the entire election process. The district witnessed violent clashes between Mahajan and Khadse supporters.
 
 Despite Khadse’s repeated complains that he was being ignored in the party, district guardian minister and BJP veteran Chandrakant Patil preferred to keep mum. A source told TOI that Khadse had even threatened to resign from the party. But his supporters warned him against doing so, stressing that the party leaders actually wanted him to do so and get rid of him.
 
 Khadse claimed that his “opponents” were trying to end his political career. But he was not yet ready to directly confront the BJP leadership fearing that he might meet the fate of  , said one of his supporters. Khadse loyalists felt their leader was being targeted at the behest of chief minister Devendra Fadnavis.
 
 Khadse was sidelined in legislative council polls, too. All his opponents in Jalgaon came together and stymied his moves.
 
 “I am patiently waiting for the Bhosari land case conclusion. I shall come clean. There are deliberate efforts to create a wrong picture by probing the same case again and again by different agencies. People in the state are with me,” Khadse told media persons after the ACB the FIR against him at the   police station on Monday.
 
 Khadse supporters are agitated with the BJP. Some of them have directly written to the chief minister alleging that the leader who contributed to the party for decades was being targeted by the party leaders.
 
 The BJP’s official line is to support Khadse. Playing down the charges against Khadse, chief minister Fadnavis had earlier said the latter would emerge unscathed from the agniparkisha (test). The chief minister also insisted that Khadse would be back in the state cabinet after he was cleared in the Bhosari land case.
 
 Fadnavis’ statements failed to mitigate the unrest among Khadse supporters, though. They feel that there was a deliberate effort to end their leader’s political career. 
 
