NAGPUR: Cries of ‘hail Caesar’ filled the auditorium as Supantha Bhattacharyya’s adaptation of Shakespeare’s ‘Julius Caesar’ began at Shalom Auditorium, Hislop College, on Sunday evening. The Roman crowd and the cast of the play were dressed in white robes.

 The crowd is celebrating   over Pompey’s sons in the battle of Munda. Soon enters Caesar, parading for the feast of Lupercal, flanked by his wife Calpurnia, friend Antony, and others.   condenses Bard’s lengthy classic play into a simple 90-minute production. The language has been intentionally simplified. Caesar is played by Harsh Mahatme.
 
 The short yet vital role of the soothsayer is played by Bhattacharya himself who renders the powerful dialogue, ‘Beware the ides of March’, a dialogue which Caesar disregards. In the next scene, he attempts to influence Brutus’ opinions into believing Caesar should be killed. 
 
  and Melwyn Kirath play the roles of Marcus Brutus and Caius Cassius respectively. There is minimal use of backdrop on the stage, which is vacant, except for a bench. The use of props too are minimal, sparing the daggers and the armour cutouts.
 
 The most unique part about the play is the simplified use of language in the dialogues, which Bhattacharyya says, was the main purpose of the play — communicating Shakespeare. Some of the most important parts of the classic tragedy were retained, including the one when Caesar is stabbed by his friend Brutus — ‘Et tu Brute? Then fall, Caesar.’
 
 After Caesar is killed, Brutus delivers an oration, but Mark Antony’s eloquent speech beginning with ‘Friends, Romans, countrymen, lend me your ears’ has the public by his side. The battle that ensues between Brutus and Antony has been depicted in a shot and simple manner, ending full circle with cries of ‘Hail Ceasar’. 
 
 The play successfully manages to leave an unaware viewer with a concrete idea of one of Bard’s most popular plays. The play was organized by the Hislop Centre For Performing Arts, Hislop College and Chitnavis Centre. The play will be performed again at Banyan Hall, Chitnavis Centre, at 7pm on Wednesday.
 
