LUCKNOW: It was in April 2008, when  , still fresh from her massive victory in Uttar Pradesh, sent 6,000 policemen to lay siege to Sisauli village to tire out farmer leader Mahender Singh Tikait hiding inside.Tikait had offended the Dalit leader with a casteist slur but thought the CM would not muster the courage to arrest him from his Jat lair.

 In the end, when Tikait surrendered and offered an apology, it amplified the message that Mayawati had upended the social dominance of Jats to sweep western UP and the state to become chief minister.
 
 BJP's romp in western UP on Saturday in the face of calls from the Jat community for its defeat has again shown that the dominant group, roughly 2% of the state's population, may no longer enjoy the disproportionate importance in the socio-political landscape of the state.
 
 That the Jat revolt was not merely one of leaders but of the community could be assumed on evidence that RLD of   was in the fray and campaigned on the caste platform. The challenge appeared serious in the wake of anti-BJP calls from Jat activists around the issue of demonetisation and the demand for OBC status, and the last-minute dialogue that BJP chief   had to open with community leaders with a desperate plea for support.
 
 What seems to have happened is that while a greater chunk of Jats may have voted against the BJP, the rest of the OBC Hindus as well as the upper castes coalesced around the saffron umbrella. The post-Muzaffarnagar polarisation played a role.These appear to have been enough in the first and second phases of polls when the western region voted.
 
 As a senior RLD leader recently told TOI, “A BJP victory would be a big blow for the Jat community.“
 
 It is not just about BJP -like BSP in 2007 -managing to beat the so-called Jat veto, it is about its implications. Mandate 2017 has again hammered home the waning influence of Jats in steering the choice of smaller communities, among them the most backwards and the Dalits.
 
 It is a widely acknowledged fact, still recalled by old-timers, that in the preSeshan-EVM era, the MBCs and Dalits never voted though their votes were cast.
 
 It is now again evident that the weaker communities are not only casting their vote but also their choice.
 
