RANCHI: It was not just the Hindus who took part in   festivities but the members of other communities also soaked in revelry in the state capital on Wednesday. 

 While volunteers of   distributed jaggery, soaked black grams and sweet drinks to devotees passing through city lanes carrying flags and festoons, volunteers of other religious and social groups had set up kiosks and distributed turbans, garlands and slices of water melons among those partaking in the processions. Some of the volunteers had also set up health camps alongside major thoroughfares. 
 
 Members of   felicitated devotees of different akhara committees with turbans and garlands and offered cold drinks and water as a procession passed through Anjuman Plaza at Main Road.
 
 Men like Mehboob Alam, Md Imtiyaz, Mansur Alam among others looked elated. “We are here to join hands with our brethren to make the festival successful by offering our service. It doesn’t matter which community is celebrating the festival,” said Alam, a local resident.
 
 “The revellers dance with sharp-edged weapons and may risk the chance of injuries...so, we decided to set up a first-aid camp on the side of the road,” Alam added. 
 
 Members of various other social groups like Pathan Tanzeem were also seen participating in processions with gusto. “Hindus and Muslims live like brothers here. We want to convey the message across all communities that everybody should come forward and immerse in festivities and forget any sort of animosity,” said president of Pathan Tanzeem, Mohammad Tauheed.
 
 Volunteers from tribal community too joined the high-voltage festivities. Members of Swam Sahayata Samuh and Sarna Samiti at Chutia and Lohadih pitched in for the celebrations by distributing water melons. “Many devotees were tired as they had to travel a long distance carrying heavy flags. We distributed water melons to give them their dose of energy,” said a member, Anil Tirkey
 
 Applauding efforts shown by various social group, Rajiv Ranjan Mishra, a member of Ram Navami Puja Central Committee said, “It was unexpected but we are grateful to such organisations that took this unique initiative and set an example of secularism.”
 
