HARINGHATA(NADIA): One may have heard of serial murders. Now, a   village is grappling with serial suicides. 

 A week after   (20), a Scheduled Caste student of the Indian Institute of Science, Education and Research (IISER), was found hanging from his Kalyani hostel room, a Class XII student from Mondal’s village penned a suicide note, declaring he was unable to come to terms with his neighbour’s death and gulped down poison to end his life.
 
 The suicide note that Soumitra   (17) left behind was addressed to Mondal. It read, “Sagar-da, I miss you very much. Though I never thought about you when you were alive, I miss you. Where are you now? My mother always encouraged me to excel in studies, sports and even fishing like you did. But you aren’t with us any more. Who will my mother refer to as an example now? Thus, I’ve decided to come to you. I’m choosing the same path as you did. Just wait a while. I’m coming.”
 
 Though the note was addressed to Mondal, Dhali signed off acknowledging his parents as he wrote, “Your affectionate son, Soumitra.”
 
 Mondal was Dhali’s senior in Fatehpur High School in Nadia’s Haringhata. The IISER student had ended his life on May 1. Son of a mason, Mondal was undergoing treatment for hypertension and was “suffering from inferiority complex” as he got low grades due to lack of proficiency in English. His family alleged he was being “pushed into taking drugs”.
 
 The college, however, denied there was any drugs or ragging issues on campus.
 
 Dhali’s neighbours suspect, like Mondal, he also thought of hanging himself. Mondal’s family said he was studying till late on Sunday night as his room light was switched on. 
 
 The neighbours however, claim that Mondal left the house with a rope but failed to go through with his decision and returned home. Later he found a lethal chemical, used to kill weed and consumed it.
 
 A neighbour said, “He could have gone to a field near his home and consumed it. A patch on the field 50 meters from his home looks he writhed in pain lying there, probably after consuming the poison.”
 
 Apparently, unable to tolerate pain, Mondal returned home and woke his mother around 2.30am on Monday. Shocked, his mother screamed for help. Neighbours took the   to Haringhata Rural Health Centre which referred him to Kalyani’s JNM Hospital where he died around 7.15pm.
 
 Police recovered Dhali’s suicide note from his room and sent his body for autopsy on Tuesday.
 
