BALOTRA/BARMER: A joint team of the   (CPCB) and the Rajasthan State Pollution Control Board conducted an inspection of effluent treatment plants near   in Barmer. The scientists arrived on Saturday to collect samples and examine facilities in keeping with February 23 orders of  .

 There are over 600 textile dyeing units in the district. The effluent from these is treated at Common Effluent Treatment Plants (CETPs) at Bithuja, Balotra and Jasol – all close to the river. These units are barred by law from releasing even treated effluent into the Luni. Polluted water rejected by the reverse osmosis treatment plant is forcibly evaporated through what are called high transpiration rate plants (HRTPs).
 
 An inspecting scientist said it was perhaps incorrect to call these units HRTPs. “The scientific procedure for dealing with this toxic waste is not being followed. The land of the HRTP is kaccha and not concrete, as required, to prevent percolation of effluent into the ground. There is no line of trees to expedite the natural process of transpiration.”
 
 Since textile units had shut for days since Holi, the sand bottom was clearly visible. The walls too are made of sand, easily breached.
 
 The HRTP at Balotra is just adjacent to River Luni. The concrete wall of this HRTP, spread over 276 bighas, bore evidence of being breached. Effluent could easily flow to the river bed. The Luni, a seasonal river, is dry during summer. Kishan Singh, a retired government servant who lives in Jasol, said the soil used to be fertile. As a child, he remembers that his family would grow vegetables on the river bed. “It is now reduced to wasteland,” he said.
 
 It is estimated that over 1,800 million metres of cloth used for petticoats and lining material is dyed here each year. The first tie-and-dye units used vegetable dyes in the 1950s but modern units have all switched to toxic chemical dyes.
 
 National Green Tribunal is hearing a public interest petition filed by Jodhpur lawyer  . “This is a water-scarce region. Luni is the only river that flows through this district. Groundwater in this area is already high in dissolved solids. When toxic dyes are added to the water, the total dissolved solids reach close to 70,000 parts per million (ppm). This water, no matter how it is treated, cannot be reused,” he said. (Indian Bureau of Standards fixes the upper limit for TDS in drinking water at 500 ppm)
 
 Large quantities of sludge – white substance left behind after evaporation that now covers a vast area in the treatment plants – lets off a strange smell. It was unclear what procedure was undertaken to dispose of the sludge.
 
 The scientists collected samples of effluent, soil and groundwater for testing. The matter will come up for hearing next in NGT on April 11.
 
