CHANDIGARH: As part of the plan to revive the   sector, chief minister Captain   on Thursday gave the go-ahead for the notification of rules for implementation of Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act, 2016 (RERA) in the state, while ordering a freeze on registration of FIRs in cases relating to unauthorized constructions till the completion of the ongoing review of such colonies.

 At a review meeting of the department of housing and urban development (H&UD),   ordered priority allocation for senior citizens and women in the reserved categories for allotment of housing sites/flats by the government. It was also decided that a meeting of the departments of H&UD, local government and rural development would be held under the chairmanship of the chief secretary next week to prepare an action plan for housing for the state’s homeless.
 
 He asked the concerned officials to find a way to provide basic amenities to the people living in unauthorized colonies without encouraging development of more such colonies. He also asked the additional chief secretary (H&UD) to ensure that every developer earmarks 5% of the total project area for construction of dwelling units for the economically weaker sections of the society, according to an official spokesperson.
 
 Giving details of the meeting, the spokesperson said Amarinder gave his nod to the H&UD department to frame the rules and regulations for the implementation of the Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act, 2016 (RERA) in the state in order to protect the interests of property buyers against unscrupulous builders. Amarinder approved the establishment of a regulatory authority for the implementation of the Act, and directed coordinated efforts for the development of the realty sector.
 
 The proposed authority, to consist of a chairperson and at least two members as mandated by the Act, would act as the nodal agency and the state government would soon notify the rules in this regard.
 
 Plan for amenities
 
 On the issue of regularization of unauthorized colonies, the chief minister asked the additional chief secretary (H&UD) to prepare a comprehensive action plan in consultation with the chief secretary so that basic amenities like roads, disposal of sewage and waste, sewerage, drinking water and street lighting could be provided to the residents of colonies that had already been approved. Amarinder suggested regularization of such colonies in a planned manner. 
 
