While most female cricketers do not have active   pages, Twitter is the platform they frequently use to engage with fans. While someone like   has been active and popular on the site for some years, owing to her status as the leading female cricketer from the country, India’s performances in the World Cup (and the month leading up to it) has meant that most members of the squad have found new legions of supporters on Twitter.
 
  
  
 Currently, in the top-four most-followed female cricketers in the world, three are Indians, and while their numbers might still be in five figures (considerably lower than the millions of followers of the Kohlis and Dhonis of the world), they are steadily growing. Since India won the quadrangular tournament in South Africa (the last tournament before the World Cup) on May 21, Mithali Raj’s Twitter follower count has gone up from 81,000 to over 1.2 lakh.
 
  
  
 
 In the same period, the new poster-girl of Indian cricket,  , too, has seen a jump from 48,000 to 70,000. Almost 10,000 of these were added after her semi-final century. Harmanpreet’s tweet about her visit to Kapil Sharma’s show in April had 69 retweets – easily her most popular tweet till then. But barely two months later, her response thanking the fans after the semi-final on June 21 garnered over 1,400 retweets. No doubt, she has grown in stock, tremendously so. Other high-performers, like Smriti Mandhana and  , have also found thousands of new fans on Twitter. The official account of the team –   Women – was created last December only, and already has 55,000 followers – more than all but one non-Indian female cricketer in the world.
 
  
 While there is no doubt that it is the team’s good performances and run to the final that have facilitated this growth in popularity, this rise in fan-base is limited to Indian players largely. Popular players from other teams that have done well have not seen such a surge. Australian captain Meg Lanning, the world no 1 batswoman, has gained only a thousand followers on Twitter in the last two months. England’s Sarah Taylor, who will lead her side against India in the final today, has seen her follower count grow by less than 6,000 since May, despite being one of the best performers in the tournament. As Mithali and her girls take on the English today at Lord’s for a chance to be world champions, there are bound to be thousands of supporters in the stands. And if the recent trends are any indicators, the Women in Blue will also have thousands new fans backing them on Twitter from around the world.
  
 
