Mumbai: Frowning on the   for changing the reservation of a   meant for a court building at Kannamwar Nagar, Vikhroli, to a multipurpose community centre, the   has directed the state government to resolve the issue within a month. If the government is unable to do so, it will have to provide an alternative plot of the same size as the one in Vikhroli, the court said.

 The direction came on a public interest litigation by Shivshankar Joshi on the dilapidated condition of the Vikhroli magistrate court. His petition said the building is unfit to house courts as it is a commercial complex with several shops, including flour mills on the ground floor. 
 
 Joshi’s petition said the plot was earlier reserved for a working women’s hostel but the reservation was deleted and in its place a 12-storey court building was planned. In October 2012, the government approved construction at an estimated cost of Rs 8 crore. In September 2015, the revised estimate of over Rs 25 crore was approved and work order notice was also issued. Since the BMC had not granted permission, work did not start.
 
 On May 5, the judges were miffed that despite all these developments, in its revised draft development plan, republished on March 27, 2017, BMC has shown the plot reserved for a multipurpose community centre. They said the proposed new reservation cannot be deleted unless the entire process for sanctioning the development plan for the city is complete.
 
 The bench headed by Justice Abhay Oka noted that the estimated construction cost climbed from Rs 8 crore to Rs 25 crore in six years and that delay will further escalate the cost. “Thus, the scenario which emerges now is that construction work of the court building cannot commence immediately, although work order has been issued two years ago. The state government and the BMC have created a situation making commencement of construction of the court building work impossible,” it noted in its order and adjourned the hearing after the court vacation.
 
