Chennai: With a warmer summer awaiting the city, water supply will be at a premium in the coming months. And universities, which boast sprawling buildings and a number of hostels, making them very water-intensive, are feeling the heat. In anticipation, some of them have taken measures to manage the demand for water efficiently during a summer that is set to see at least a 1.5 degree increase in overall heat, which is likely to exacerbate the water crunch arising from last year’s poor northeast monsoon.

 From shutting campus gates early in the year, to setting up  , institutions are leaving no stone unturned in this pursuit. Indian Institute of Technology Madras, which houses acres of infrastructure, including campuses, offices, labs, quarters and hostels, has a recycling plant which went operational in November last year. The water needs incurred by the institution are hoped to be covered partially by this plant, which will treat used water and pump it into the lake inside the campus area. “This water will be utilised as a contingency resource,” said MS Sivakumar, dean of students at IITM.
 
 Another institution that looks to quench water needs from an in-house water body is  . The University’s much awaited ‘Pond Project’ - an artificial pond that will store treated, recycled water - will be ready by the upcoming academic year. “Currently the University utilises about eight lakh litres of water every day,” explains Estate Officer, VK Stalin. Out of this, five lakh litres are footed by Metrowater supply As the Metrowater supply has been dwindling around the city, 4,000 hostelers housed in the University, along with day scholars, stand to get affected. Noting this, the University has scheduled its   a month in advance to wrap up early, before water needs intensify and supply trickles lower, said Stalin.
 
 Away in the suburbs, universities are also resorting to a different strategy - timing water supply to ensure that groundwater levels remain stable for daily supply, if the rainclouds bail out this year. Private institutions like SRM University, although being fed by a big well, are carrying this out as a precautionary measure. “In view of the predicted drought conditions, some restrictions have been put on water supply hours. Water will be supplied in hostels from 6 am until 9 am, and from evening onwards,” said a spokesperson for the university.
 
 
