GUWAHATI: After the proscibed anti-talks   joined the statewide protest against the state government's move to make Sanskrit mandatory in government-run schools up to Class VIII, forest minister and   leader Pramila Rani Brahma said on Saturday that the decision is still open to a review by the state cabinet. 

 "The cabinet took the decision to make Sanskrit compulsory in schools but that does not mean that the matter is shut and closed. The cabinet can still review its decision after assessing the reaction of the people of the state," Brahma said. 
 
 Ulfa-I has, in turn, demanded that Bodo be made compulsory in schools. The All Assam Students' Union (Aasu) has also demanded that the state government make recognized regional languages mandatory in schools instead of Sanskrit.
 
 As protests continue, several activists of leading student and youth organization Asom Jatiyatabadi Yuba Chatra Parishad (AJYCP) were detained by police in upper Assam on Saturday while protesting against the government decision to make Sanskrit compulsory for every student in the elementary classes.
 
 Aasu general secretary Lurinjyoti Gogoi told TOI that the students' body will intensify its movement against the decision. "Aasu vehemently opposes the state cabinet's decision to make Sanskrit compulsory and decided to launch protest against this authoritarian move. Instead of making Sanskrit compulsory, we demand that the Assam government make regional languages like Assamese, Bodo and Bengali compulsory, depending on the structure of habitation in different parts of the state. In those areas, where majority of people are Assamese-speaking, Assamese should be made compulsory in every school," Gogoi said. 
 
 Aasu further demanded that the government make regional languages mandatory in the state's schools which are affiliated to the   and other boards.
 
 The students' body said the decision to make Sanskrit a compulsory subject is a violation of the three-language formula mentioned in the National Policy on Education, which states that the non-Hindi speaking students should learn Hindi along with a regional language and English. "Imposing   will be in violation of the widely accepted three-language formula. Students cannot take on so much," Gogoi added.
 
 
