CHENNAI: AIADMK general secretary   drove down to the   on the second consecutive day on Sunday to keep her flock together and counter reports that the MLAs in her camp are held captive.

 Speaking to reporters in the presence of   at the beach resort, Sasikala said the legislators had come of their own free will to save the party and the government.
 
  parties for spreading 'rumours' that MLAs had been kept against their will. “They are staying together like a family here. You can see how free they are and you can understand that the reports of their confinement are false.The detractors and rival parties have been jointly spreading rumours,“ she said. She said she was over whelmed at the legis lators' dedication to the party and how they stayed away from their families for the party.
 
 “The MLAs are in touch with their family members over phone.They have received threats that their daughters will be abducted.They requested relatives to protect their daughters,“ she said.
 
 When asked for the possible reasons for the delay on the part of the governor in inviting her to form the government, she said, “the world knows [the reason] and you know“. On a query on the number of MLAs, who are present at the resort, she did not give a di rect reply but said, “count yourself “.
 
 “Wait and watch,“ she said when asked about her next plan of action.
 
 About the reported letter sent by the governor to the Centre ruling her out as chief minister as the disproportionate assets case is pending in the Supreme Court, she shot back that Raj Bhavan had clarified that it had not sent such a report. “We know who is spreading such reports.They are meant to create confusion. But our MLAs have understood the ploy ,“ she said.
 
 “I will take any decision at any time to safeguard party and government. I will not go back on my decisions,“ she said.
 
 She called upon 129 legislators to take a pledge at the memorial of J Jayalalithaa and enter the fort. She said a photograph of Jayalalithaa would be unveiled at the legislative assembly .
 
 To those questioning her elevation as legislature party leader, paving the way for her to become chief minister, she remarked, “I stayed with a lion and if one lion goes another will [take its place].“
 
 Earlier, Sasikala displayed a `fake' letter purportedly written by her in which she threatens the governor that she will end her life if he didn't make her chief minister.
 
 She said the circulation of such letters was an example of how women are targeted in politics -a favourite theme of J Jayalalithaa.
 
