JAIPUR: The   showcasing different moods of women along with   takes you back to the ancient era. Pictures of   and Lord Brahma Temple in   hang side by side, giving a clear message of cultural and religious diversity . These are not part of any exhibition or an art gallery . They decorate the interiors of the upcoming Kishangarh airport building.

 The terminal building of Kishangarh airport which is awaiting DGCA nod for operations has close to 100 paintings in different corners of the building--departure and arrival terminal, VIP lounges and security area. The entire airport is designed in such a way that it promotes the local feel, from ancient to medieval and modern art.
 
 “The whole idea is to create a platform to promote local art and artisans and to give the airport a different feel, considering the city's rich history , culture and art form,“ said Sanjeev Jindal, general manager, Airports Authority of India (AAI) and in-charge of Kishangarh airport.
 
 Now, standing in long queues to depart from Ajmer will not be a painful experience. The airport authorities have created an exhibition wall in the departure hall. The LED lights along with exhibition wall highlighting the nuances of paintings will capti vate the minds of devotees who come to Ajmer to pay obeisance.
 
 “Here, we will allow the artists to make use of the facility by exhibiting their art work. The authorities are clear that such platforms will be given on the priority to the local artists,“ said Jindal.
 
 The Bani Thani paintings are a miniature form of art, exclusive to Kishangarh.Evolved in the 18th century, this art form has been globally recognized. The local artists have been involved to create different moods of women using hands, nose, eyes, dress etc. Mud wall paintings, which are very common in rural houses in the state have been featured on a wall facing parking bay.
 
 The mud is laced with cow dung giving it a unique texture and colour. Natural col ours have been used to create images of village men and women, peacocks, trees, houses and farmlands. “The pictorial illustration of a village will be a treat for the passengers here,“ said Jindal.
 
 The authorities have not stopped here. Kishangarh is also famous for its marble cutting business. “For the first time 3D marble installations created by computerbased rock cutters have been displayed. The installations have been placed at the VIP lounge at the moment, later they will be placed at several other places. The idea is to tell the passengers that this kind of art also exists in Rajasthan,“ said Jindal.
 
 Artists involved in marble cutting are doing a great job with the help of technological advancement. To make this initiative a unique one, the airport authority has sought help from the citizens of Ajmer.
 
 Syed Salman Chishty, an art conservationist and a priest at Ajmer dargah has gifted 10 paintings to the airport. “I have gifted 5 paintings of Sufi art which are on display here. The aim is to introduce Sufi art forms among the masses,“ said Chishty .
 
 
