AMRITSAR: The movement for reclaiming the original site of Gurdwara Gyan Godhri, Har ki Pauri, in Haridwar ( ) has attained international dimensions after Sikh leaders living in Pakistan and other countries joined the issue raised jointly by the SGPC and DSGMC. Both bodies had given a call to   living around the globe to recite Japji Sahib on May14 for the reconstruction of gurdwara erected in memory of Guru Nanak Dev in 1935.

 Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (PSGPC) president Tara Singh said that Sikhs of his country would also recite Japji Sahib in their local gurdwaras, homes or business establishments for the reconstruction of Gurdwara Gyan Godhri at 8.30 am (Pakistan time) on May 14. He further said that he, along with Sikhs of Nankana Sahib, would converge at Gurdwara Nanakana Sahib to recite the holy scripture. Tara asked the Indian government to return the gurdwara site to the Sikh Panth.
 
 Patron-in-chief of Karachi-based Pakistan Sikh Council Ramesh Singh Khalsa stated that the council had issued an appeal to the Sikhs of his country to recite Japji Sahib for the ‘liberation’ of Gurdwara Gyan Godhri. He said that the Sikhs of Pakistan backed the movement initiated by the SGPC and DSGMC under the aegis of the Akal Takht.
 
 President of the   said that besides Pakistan, Sikh leaders from Australia, Canada, UK, Germany and Italy had also send their programmes for reciting Japji Sahib in their respective gurdwaras. When asked about some of the Sikh groups marching towards Haridwar on May 14, GK said neither the Akal Takht nor the SGPC and DSGMC had given a call to march to Haridwar. “They are going on their own,” he said. “Our call is to recite Japji Sahib in local gurdwaras or at home,” he said, adding that there were a few groups who wanted to take credit for the movement, which was unfortunate.
 
  president Gurcharan Singh Babbar said hundreds of Sikhs would recite Japji Sahib at Har ki Pauri. He warned that if the government tried to create obstacles or prevented Sikhs from going to Har ki Pauri, then it should be prepared to face ‘Dharam Yudh’.
 
