VISAKHAPATNAM: With two months left for the financial year to come to a close, the registration and   appears to be lagging behind in achieving its targets set by the state government. Ever since demonetisation was announced in November, revenue collections have dropped due to a decrease in realty sales in the district. 

 According to the Core (CM Office real-time executive) dashboard, between April and January 2016-17, revenue collections were Rs 435.53 crore as against Rs 464.80 crore during the corresponding period of the previous fiscal. 
 
 The eight sub-registrar offices of Vizag contributed around Rs 321.46 crore between April-January 2016-17 as against Rs 342.78 crore during the corresponding period of the previous year. Incidentally, the highest revenue collections has been noted in Gajuwaka (74.66%) followed by   (73.89%), whereas the lowest has been in Visakhapatnam (56.12%).
 
 According to realty sources, sales of plots and apartments have dropped drastically during November and December. However, a slight improvement in sales has been noticed in January.
 
 “Majority of customers purchasing plots are salaried employees and there is still a restriction on withdrawals from savings accounts. Even though November to April is the major season for  , people are not coming forward to buy plots. It has improved a little bit in January, but is nowhere near to what it was during January or February last year,” observed a layout developer in the city.
 
 At the same time, another realty agent pointed out that until now people were waiting to see if any more decisions would be taken up by the central government, which would be against the interest of customers. “Lot of people were wondering if there would be any curbs on those purchasing properties as rumours were doing the roads, so people had the wait and watch approach. But, until the cash restrictions are removed, the purchase of property may not hit the earlier levels,” the realty agent said.
 
 Majority of customers purchasing plots are salaried employees and there is still a restriction on withdrawals from savings accounts. Even though November to April is the major season for purchase of property, people are not coming forward to buy plots.
 
