KOLKATA: At a time when the Human Resource and Development ministry has shown an interest in stepping in to tackle the issue of heavy school bags, some city schools have already come up with solutions. 

 Sources said CBSE has alerted affiliated schools to reduce burden on students by decreasing the weight of school bags. “We have received complaints from children about stiffness in the neck and shoulders. If not treated immediately, it may lead to ailments like kyphosis, lumbago, slipped disc and spondylitis. The board has also instructed schools not to give any homework to students of classes I and II so that they are not required to carry bags to school,” explained the principal of a CBSE-affiliated school.
 
 “In our school, no student is penalized for forgetting to carry textbooks. In fact, keeping books in the school itself is another solution to reduce the weight of school bags carried by students of the primary section. We have already begun to implement this,” she added. 
 
 “CBSE has suggested we should ask students to abide strictly by the timetable and not carry extra books. We have also been asked to check bags randomly to ensure they are not very heavy. We have provided cupboards to primary scetion kids to keep their books in school,” said  , principal of Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan School.
 
 The authorities of Kendriya Vidyalayas said they provide drinking water so that students do not have to carry water bottles while some other schools have planned to readjust classes so that students carry the minimum number of books. 
 
 Some schools affiliated to CISCE, like La Martiniere for Boys and La Martiniere for Girls, offer lockers to senior school students. “It allows them to keep some of their essential textbooks and other items at school instead of carrying them everyday,” said BOG secretary of La Martiniere Schools, Supriyo Dhar.
 
 Additionally, the students of lower and upper nursery students are only given worksheets so they are not required to carry bags. 
 
 Education minister Partha Chatterjee said that though the state will not fix any weight limit for school bags, other plans are afoot. “We will distribute bags and copies to students in November. It will allow us to restrict excessively heavy school bags,” Chatterjee said.
 
  principal   said, “We will decide on a plan to tackle this weight problem after the exams.”
 
