Years after keeping a low-profile, former city mayor and ex-AIADMK MLA T Malaravan has been hogging the limelight for the past few weeks. He has been scathing in his criticism of AIADMK general secretary   and lavish in his praise for late chief minister J Jayalalithaa’s niece Deepa. Malaravan was one of the first AIADMK heavy-weights to join Deepa Peravai. He had managed to mobilize a large crowd on the recent birth anniversary of Dravidian icon C N Annadurai. Inaugurating the Peravai’s office at Periyanaickenpalayam on Monday, Malaravan spoke to Komal Gautham about the imminent elevation of Sasikala to the post of chief minister, stating that this move is a mockery of democracy.

 
 
 People of Tamil Nadu voted for AIADMK and Amma (Jayalalithaa). If Sasikala wants to become the chief minister, she should hold fresh elections for the state and win votes. Her elevation to CM’s post is a mockery of democracy. 
 
 
 
 
 Amma never took her to party meetings. When she and her family members were evicted from Poes Garden in 2011, Sasikala had given in writing that she would not take up any party post or enter politics. It was on that condition that Amma had taken her back. But just a month after Amma’s demise, she has decided to become the chief minister. 
 
 
 
 OPS had done some good work in the last one month. The way he handled Cyclone Vardah and jallikattu protests is appreciable. He should have been elected as the general secretary of the AIADMK as well. The party supported him. Since Sasikala has control over finances of the party, no one stood against her.
 
 
 
 
 If this happens, someone from Sasikala’s family will try to take up the post. We have been clear from the beginning that the party belongs to the cadre and the leader should be decided by them. The cadres want   to lead the party.
 
 
 
 Deepa has said that the party would be floated on February 24. We have already begun our ground work. We have been in the party since MGR’s period and have worked day and night for the growth of the party. From C N Annadurai, the beginning was not easy for all our leaders. Every leader learns with experience and Deepa will also prove to be a good leader.
 
 
 
 We will contest in the local body elections and will show who the cadres are with. We have already begun meetings and Deepa has said she will start touring several districts in the state. We are sure that people will show that their loyalties lie with Deepa.
 
