Nagpur: Even as the controversy over radio collaring has failed to die down, the Wildlife Institute of India (WII) on Monday discreetly tagged a sub-adult female cub of the Shivanzari tigress in Kolsa range of the Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR).  The Shivanzari tigress has four sub-adult cubs — two males and females each. WII plans to fit two more collars — one to a male cub of Shivanzari and another a female cub of Telia tigress Sonam, which was in news for conflict in Sitarampeth area outside Tadoba. Each collar costs Rs5 lakhs. This is the fourth tiger to be fitted with a collar in Tadoba and its landscape. In 2014, two tigers — Gabbar and Chhoti Tara of Jamni and two leopards were fitted with collars under the Rs1.64 crore project titled ‘Long-term monitoring of tigers, co-predators and prey species in TATR and adjoining landscapes’. Umred-Karhandla’s Jai, now missing since last April, too was fitted a collar in September 2015, the area being in Tadoba landscape. “The WII has permission to collar 7 dispersing tigers under the 5-year research project. Hence, three more tigers will be radio-collared,” said wildlife spokesperson & DFO GK Vashishtha. Interestingly, Chhoti Tara and Gabbar were resident tigers and not dispersing wildcats. Moreover, forest department on November 2, 2016 had told TOI that there will be no more collaring after Jai’s mess. “No collaring direction is for another Rs1crore project titled ‘Studying dispersal of tigers across Eastern Vidarbha Landscape’ being jointly implemented by WII and the department,” clarified Vashishtha. Under the EVL project four tigers were collared. This included Jai’s offsprings — Bittu and Shriniwas — and a Brahmapuri male, which died, and a problem female also from Brahmapuri, which was released in Chaprala on November 4, but is still missing as collar went off. WII also replaced collars of Bittu (December 5, 2016) and Shriniwas (January 13) without any fanfare. Now eyebrows have been raised as WII has messed up on radio-collars at least 5 times. “Even after the Jai debacle, they have not learnt lessons. Brahmapuri tigress T-8’s cub was lying fatally wounded for 6 days in the forest, yet WII researchers did not realize this,” said a wildlife vet from Chandrapur. Besides, the hi-tech collar of Chaprala tigress went kaput the day it was released. Multiple examples prove negligence of their researchers, say experts. Wildlife biologist Aditya Joshi says, “The poor scientific procedures followed by WII are giving a bad name to the field of radiotelemetry.” Another wildlife biologist Milind Pariwakam adds, “Why does WII need to change collars after 1750 data points (in case of Bittu & Shriniwas)? They are unnecessarily putting stress on tigers due to repeated chemical captures.” “The WII team has committed a series of errors,” said Sarosh Lodhi of Conservation Lenses & Wildlife (CLAW). “It includes improper selection of individuals to meet project objectives, lack of coordination with forest department and implementation of monitoring protocols, misguiding forest department, media and general public with respect to technicalities of telemetry and complete absence of field based VHF tracking.”  “Even after errors it is surprising how forest department is allowing such a project to collar additional individuals without any clarification and action over the past mistakes,” questioned conservationist Prafulla Bhamburkar.