AGRA: On Tuesday, chief judicial magistrate court granted bail to nine men after police dropped charges of dacoity and attempt to murder from its investigation report. The men were arrested on the night of April 22, after they allegedly attacked cops, snatched away their service pistols and pelted stones at the Sadar police station.

 Earlier, after deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya visited Agra on April 26, the same day SSP Agra Preetinder Singh and SP Agra city Sushil Ghule were transferred.
 
 It is worth mentioning here, that on April 22nd night, IPS Ghule along with other officers prevented 200 right-wing men from rescuing their five men from Sadar police station, after they were detained for slapping DSP Ravikant Parashar and pelting stones on Fatehpur Sikri police station.
 
 Meanwhile, for the violence by the right-wing men in Fatehpur Sikri on the same day, court of judicial magistrate (I) rejected bail plea of five others. In total, 14 men were arrested out of 34 named accused and 150 unidentified. It is important to note, that the police failed to arrest VHP Agra president Sunil Parashar, Nand Kishore Balmiki of Hindu Jagran Manch, Govind Parashar and other top notch leaders who were also named among the 34 accused.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Dharmendar Verma, advocate of the accused right-wing men claimed, that “The two investigating officers of Mathura police, Inspector Raguraj Singh Bhatti probing Sadar violence and Pradeep Kumar investigating Fatehpur Sikri case, informed court about the removal of IPC sections 307 (attempt to murder) and 395 (dacoity) from the two cases, as they didn’t found any evidence to support the charges against the right-wing men.”
 
 “Taking cognizance of file case prepared by police, the CJM (VI) Om Prakash granted bail to nine accused, though judicial magistrate (I) Shilpi Chauhan rejected bail plea of five others involved in Fatehpur Sikri violence case,” he said. “We will again move bail plea of five men, as police have wrongly framed them in the violence case,” he added.
 
 The nine who were granted bail were Deepak, Ranjeet Singh, Manoj, Rajeev Sharma, Lokesh, Ram Prakash, Rajeev, Manoj and Ranjeet.
 
 In the FIR police have levied charges against all accused under IPC sections 147 (Punishment for rioting), 149 (Every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object), 332 (Voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty), 353 (Assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 336 (Act endangering life or personal safety of others), 323 (Punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of Rs 50), 504 (intentional insult to provoke breach of the peace) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC as well as section 7 of the Criminal Law Amendment Act.
 
