VIJAYAWADA: : While Andhra Pradesh ranks amongst the top five states in crimes against scheduled castes in India, a surprising fact is that Vijayawada alone accounts for almost 40% of the cases. According to data from the   (NCRB), Vijayawada city registered 1,031 cases while West Godavari district registered 883 cases in 2015.

 The data for 2016 is not yet out in the open but according to the   Bureau (CCRB), there is the highest incidence of crimes against SC/STs in the city suburbs. However, it is pertinent to note that the figures indicate only crimes against people belonging to scheduled castes/scheduled tribes but do not necessarily mean that all of them are atrocities. 
 
 Interestingly, trends indicate that most of the people belonging to scheduled castes reside in Machavaram area in the city and second place goes to Suryaraopet. Apart from these two regions, majority of them reside in Nunna, Penamaluru and Patamata.
 
 It is no surprise that West Godavari ranks second. The recent controversy in Garagaparu village where an entire colony of Dalits was ostracised has highlighted the acute casteism prevailing in the district. Around 6,009 non-atrocity cases were filed across the country and Andhra Pradesh takes most of the chunk where around 2,050 cases were reported. 
 
 When it comes to atrocity cases against scheduled tribes, Andhra Pradesh ranks number 3rd in the country with 13.8 crime rate proving that tribal welfare continues to stand neglected. Police sources also expressed concern over the misuse of SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act 1989 to settle personal and political scores.
 
 AP Police also registered cases against people under IPC section 177 (Furnishing false information) against persons who have been lodging false complaints under the Act. Some of the examples are land related disputes and higher officials being harassed by subordinates to file cases under the Act.
 
 However, welfre organisations for SCs and STs do believe that there are many genuine cases of atrocities and the very purpose of the act does not stand defeated due to few stray incidents. “It is obviously hard to find Dalits staying in the heart of the city these days as most of the house owners are unwilling to rent them the place. 
 
 Forget about renting places, as per the government order issued a cemetery grounds for Dalits were supposed to be set up and even that is not implemented,”  , state   of Kula Vivaksha Porata Samiti told TOI. 
 
