BENGALURU:   had to cut short his inspection of   in the city on Wednesday after the   he was travelling in broke down midway.  , bureaucrats and other officials were also in the bus which broke down at Dooravani Nagar on Ramamurthy Nagar Main Road, east Bengaluru. Officials soon arranged another bus for the chief minister.

 This forced the chief minister to skip inspection of east  . Officials said he had to rush to another programme in Kadugodi near Whitefield.
 
 The chief minister started inspection at 3.05pm from his home-cum-office Krishna. He first visited Kumbara Gundi next to SJ Park police station off JC Road in central Bengaluru around 3.15 pm. The entire stretch had witnessed waterlogging during the recent rains.
 
 The residents told Siddaramaiah that when it rains, the entire area gets flooded because three buildings have come up on the storm water drain, following which the chief minister instructed BBMP officials to demolish the buildings as soon as possible.
 
 The team then rushed to BMTC workshop in Shantinagar where Bengaluru development minister KJ George and Shantinagar MLA NA K Sunil Prasa Haris entered into an argument over its renovation.The workshop, where all buses are repaired, has about 1,500 staffers.
 
 Recently, George had announced a project worth Rs 15 crore to divert sewage water from the storm water drain to avoid flooding in the area.Haris argued the project would be of little help and would lead to sewage water overflowing all over the place in the absence of proper a pipeline. Finally, the CM pacified them and instructed BBMP engineers to take steps to resolve the problems in the area. CM stuck in traffic Chief minister Siddaramaiah and his ministers, including home minister R Ramalinga Reddy, felt the heat of the city traffic on Hosur Road during the inspection. The convoy slowed down near Wilson Garden on Hosur Road, with vehicles and the bus carrying the CM having a tough time to cover a distance of 1km.
 
 
 
 
 Better late than never. Chief minister Siddaramaiah finally embarked on an inspection of rain-hit areas in Bengaluru on Wednesday. The incessant rain in the past two weeks has wreaked havoc in various parts of the city, with lakes and storm water drains overflowing. Citizens have been complaining that no civic officials visited their localities, many of which were waterlogged for several days. With the CM and his officials getting firsthand experience of the state of affairs in many areas, it's time for him to speed up the process of cleaning up the storm water drains and clearing encroachments on them. This will go a long way in preparing the city for such deluges in the future.
 
 
 T he city has 830-km long storm water drain network and the government has started construction of a retaining wall for storm water drains, desilting and other works to prevent flooding. The government has already released Rs 800 crore for it. “We need Rs 1,500 crore to complete the remaining 430km of storm water drains., The amount will be released soon,“ said CM Siddaramaiah. He blamed the previous state governments for neglecting the city's basic infrastructure. “Every year, we face the same problem when it rains. This year it is pathetic.Water was about 5 feet deep and several vehicles were damaged,“ a resident of HSR Layout said, urging the CM to visit the area to gauge the damage himself. Another resident alleged that neither the BBMP nor the BWSSB has taken up drainage work for the past eight years. MLA Satish Reddy attributed the flooding in the area to the overflowing Madivala Lake. Home minister R Ramalinga Reddy said the problem of flooding was because of unsilted Bellandur Lake. “If the lake is desilted, there will no problem in the near future,“ he said. 
 
