AMALAPURAM: Saying boo to the High Court on cockfights, enthusiasts, punters and organisers had a field day in both   on Thursday, a day ahead of  . 

 An organiser in West Godavari said lakhs of rupees had been offered to each police station to keep the cops away from cockfight dens. Worse still, auctions for roosters went on big time in both Godavari districts. 
 
 Apart from the cockfights, major arenas organise ‘gundata’ (the number game) and gambling where liquor flows. For this, organisers auction space. One businessman won the auction for gundata for Rs 40 lakh for next four days at I Polavaram mandal in Konaseema. Liquor sales points had been auctioned for around Rs 15 lakh each. Apart from this, bike parking stands and chicken stalls were also openly auctioned by the organisers. 
 
 According to sources, around 30 major arenas were prepared in the 16 mandals of Konaseema in   and another 100 minor arenas have also started the competitions. On Day One, many organisers organised rooster fights without knives. A major 10-acre arena at Muramalla village in I Polavaram mandal has scheduled fights on Friday, Saturday and Sunday, a businessman of Amalapuram K Satyanarayana told TOI. 
 
 Organisers arranged tents, lighting and LCD screens at the arenas for the better viewing. Major arenas were set up at Godilanka, Allavaram, Rajolu, Mummadivaram, Sakhinetipalli, Gondi, Antarvedi, Lakkavaram in Konaseema. “The organisers of major arenas have already sent invitations to hundreds of the people across the state. They have already announced gifts like cars on lucky draws as well,” a punter at Sakhinetipalli said. Some of the arenas were set up in the island villages in Godavari. 
 
 Bhimavaram, Palakollu, Narasapuram, Vundi, Kalla and Vendra in West Godavari were also set for cock fights. As per the deal cops would visit the arenas in the morning only when no competition would be held. The ‘real’ competitions would held from Friday afternoon. 
 
  Lakhs of rupees had been offered to each police station to keep the cops away from cockfight dens. Worse still, auctions for roosters went on big time in both Godavari district
 
 
