CHENNAI: It's 7am and R Ashwin is already at the RKM ground, where he runs his own academy. India's No. 1 spinner, who has been recently termed by the legendary   as the "Bradman of bowling", is preparing for Australia with intent.

 Be it his bowling sessions, fielding practice or batting at the nets under the guidance of personal coach P Srinivasan, Ashwin wants to ensure that he is absolutely ready for another big challenge. “You know, I was a ball boy at Chepauk when the Aussies played that Test in 2001 which India won,” Ashwin said, getting a little nostalgic while talking to TOI on the sidelines of his practice session.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (Laughs) Neither looks at it like that. It's about how we take the team forward as a group rather than competing among ourselves. But it's true that good performances give me a good night's sleep.
 
 
 
 
 For the media, it's a great headline to grab. For me as an individual who wanted to play one Test for India, it does mean a lot as well, more so because it's coming from Waugh - somebody who changed Australian cricket with the way he led and played the game.
 
 Even though it's a proud moment for me, I don't live over it or eat my lunch or breakfast over it. But I feel happy for my parents - especially my dad - reading such statements in the newspaper. It is a huge thing for him and I can see it in his eyes. 
 
 
 
 
 England played some outstanding cricket and was a very smart team. Australia will be a different kettle of fish because they play an aggressive brand of cricket, play a lot more shots, bowl a lot more aggressively. I feel, as always, the start of the series is going to be the most important.
 
 
 
 
 Yes, I had some duels with Warner and the world knows they are great batsmen. But as I said, the key to this series is how well we start off. More often than not, it's about wearing the opposition down and if you can start doing that from the beginning, it gets easier towards the end. I know that Smith and Warner will play in their free-spirited fashion and if we can curb their natural instinct and play to our strengths and make them play to the pace that we want them to, we will do a fine job.
 
 
 
 
 The last turning wicket was against South Africa in Nagpur. I don't think I am a person who complains too much about wickets and it's the team management call on how they want to play cricket. It's not a big deal for me and I will play on whatever is dished out. I will try to raise my level in every condition.
 
 
 
 
 I have been a little unlucky not to have got more hundreds recently. I have batted really well but haven't got the three figures. But I am not thinking too much because if you do that you will start getting desperate. I am enjoying this phase of my career and I don't want to overburden myself by thinking about numbers.
 
 
 
 
 I have a lot of respect for Anderson and I don't think I gave an earful to him. I felt he made a statement of India being not so good which I felt was not very Jimmy Anderson like. I just told him that being the great player that he is, I expected him to be a little more magnanimous. And as for probable chit-chat, I am not a person who generally goes after people. I won't react if it comes across as basic banter, I won't do anything unless I think someone is really coming after me.
 
 
 
 
 Jadeja is one who will not give anything away. That gives me the luxury to extend my imagination a lot more. There are pockets of the game when we don't get wickets and that is the time when I try to make things happen. During the Kanpur Test against New Zealand, Mitchell Santner and Luke Ronchi were going very well. Jadeja was bowling a tight line and I bowled a ball outside the leg stump of Santner and got him to nick to gully on a slow pitch. Those are exactly my strengths. When I don't offer the same things over and over again, they try to do things to get the runs away and then they make mistakes. So Jadeja and I, bowling the way we do, creates opportunities for each other.
 
 
 
 
 I think they will come prepared for what's in store. It's a world of pros these days and the fact that the wickets in India are so well rolled will help them. I was having a talk with (umpire) Kumar Dharmasena the other day on how differently they prepare pitches in Sri Lanka than they do it in India. He was saying that the Indian curators roll the pitches to an extent that those go completely dead, something that Sri Lankans doesn't. I think Sri Lanka produces some of the best wickets around the world while ours are slower in nature. But then, the Aussies will have to come to terms with the slowness of the Indian pitches, something that they are not used to.
 
 
 
 
 CHENNAI: R Ashwin, who has four hundreds and 10 fifties in 63 Test innings, also worked on his batting at the RKM ground in Chennai under the guidance of academy and batting coach P Srinivasan. For the first hour, Srinivasan turned into Mitchell Starc with a side-arm (throwdown equipment) and “created” reverse swing from different angles at a short distance. Then he switched to off-spin, enacting Lyon, with Ashwin facing the deliveries from the bowler's end, which resembled the look of an unplayable, typical day five Indian wicket. “The area that Ashwin was playing is similar to a Day Five turner. I was bowling off-spin (keeping Nathan Lyon in mind) with the rough with a short-leg, legslip and a slip. We tried different scenarios and he worked on different shots that he can try,” Srinivasan said.
 
