PUNE: Contracting dengue in the initial three months of   – first trimester —increases chances of abortion, doctors said while warning expecting mothers from indulging in   for fever.

 “If a pregnant woman contracts the disease in the second or third trimester, it may increase the risk of premature birth,” they said.
 
 Early diagnosis, appropriate treatment and close monitoring are vital when dengue strikes during pregnancy.
 
 “Dengue fever causes drop in platelet count. The severe drop in platelet may cause various pregnancy-related complications,” senior gynaecologist Ramesh Bhosale of B J Medical College attached Sassoon General Hospital said.
 
 The cases of dengue in pregnancy are on a rise due to the increasing incidence of dengue fever in adulthood. “One in 100 dengue infected patients is a pregnant woman,” Bhosale added.
 
 Gynaecologist Pankaj Sarode, former secretary of the Pune Obstetrics and Gynaecological Society, said, “Women have low immunity during pregnancy and that makes them prone to host of infections, including dengue. Because of pregnancy, they are more likely to land up with complications if they contract dengue as compared with non-pregnant women.”
 
 Maximum growth of baby is seen in second and third trimesters. Hence, catching dengue during this period may affect baby’s growth.
 
 “If a pregnant woman catches dengue in the second or third trimester, she also has higher chances of preterm delivery as well as intra-uterine growth restrictions (IUGR). In IUGR, baby’s growth is severely affected,” Sarode added.
 
 Senior gynaecologist Sanjay Gupte said, “Pregnant women should not dismiss fever as something that can be dealt with self-medication. In the prevailing scenario, when cases of dengue and swine flu are on the rise, fever among pregnant women should be managed with proper medical care.”
 
 He said it is often seen that when dengue does not cause much complication when the patient is feverish. 
 
 “It is only after the fever subsides that platelet count starts dropping leading to more complications if the patient happens to be a pregnant woman,” Gupte said. Transmission of dengue from the infected mother to fetus is also a known complication, he added.
 
