Set during the partition period, Bharat bhagyo bidhata in Rajkahini created a lot of buzz. But during the making of  , Rajkahini’s Hindi adaptation, director   was left with a question. What happens to the final track of the movie, which takes the narrative to
 a crescendo? 
 
 Giving us a backstory on how they stumbled upon a new track, Srijit said, “We were contemplating translating the four lesser-known stanzas of the poem (only the first one was declared the National Anthem). We were hoping to get Gulzar saab on board too. But then it dawned on us that a   rule forbids us to add new lyrics to the tune of the  . We were left to think of a new song that encapsulates the spirit of Begum Jaan — one that the entire country has heard of. This is when we thought of Woh subah kabhi toh ayegi from the 1958 movie Phir Subah Hogi starring   and Mala Sinha. The song, composed by Khayyam, had lyrics by the legendary poet and lyricist Sahir Ludhianvi.” 
 However, there is a twist to the story.   discovered few stanzas of the same lyrics, which had a different mukhra. This one, Woh subah hum hee se ayegi, was better suited for the film. It was then decided to retain the original antara of the song but replaced the mukhra (from the film) with the lyricist’s unpublished mukhra. Speaking to us about the idea, Mahesh Bhatt said, “Srijit was hungry for the right kind of emotional song that went with the new narrative. He was pulling out something fresh but needed the same emotional peak that Bharat bhagyo bidhata awakened in everyone. The closest song I could think of was Woh subah kabhi toh ayegi — a song that has shadowed me all through my life. Sahir saab had felt the pain of Partition and it was dominant in the lyrics.”
 
 Explaining further as to why the lyrics were perfect for the concluding song of the film, Srijit added, “The lyrics throws light on the spirit of the film. The change that we want to see in the world, has to come from within us. Rajkahini ends in 1947 itself. Begum Jaan, on the other hand, begins and ends in 2016. The story is linked to the contemporary realities of the country and this is where the lyrics come to play. It’s of great significance that one will understand when one watches the film. The song has been sung by   and Shreya Ghoshal.”
 Mahesh Bhatt’s thoughts concurs with that of Srijit’s. Bhatt added, “It was a good thing that no one was really aware of the fact that he had written another mukhra that summarises the essence of the film. The song essentially says, there’s no messiah that’ll descend from the sky and lead you to paradise. You have to be your own light. The sun may be a god but the sun when sets leaves you in darkness. It is only on the darkest night that you realise that there’s eternal sunshine in you. Srijit’s face was all lit-up when I told him about the song. He knew his search had ended.” 
 
 
