HYDERABAD: Has pollution robbed some parts of the city of its rain? Yes, say scientists and meteorologists, blaming small particles of pollutants leading to the formation of shallow clouds, which do not have adequate capacity to hold water.

 During the recent spate of showers that lashed the city for 48 hours, areas such as Srinagar Colony, Madhapur, Balanagar, Malkajgiri, Amberpet, Tirumalgherry received the highest amount of rainfall when compared to the rest of the city. Weather observers and experts say that the increase in the air pollution in these areas aggravated a poor monsoon.
 
 “If there is a lot of air pollution, there is a drop in the amount of rainfall and this is primarily because the pollutants PM 2.5 and PM 10 are foreign particles and they hasten the cloud-formation process,” said Mahesh Palawat, chief meteorologist of Skymet, a private weather forecasting unit. 
 
 Whenever the cloud formation procedure is hastened, then clouds that are formed are stunted and lack the water-holding capacity, he said. A study conducted by the  , has established a link between a number of pollutants in the atmosphere and cloud formation during the monsoon.
 
 For the study, scientists analysed observational data on aerosols and clouds between 2000-2009 monsoons. They were surprised after finding that high levels of aerosols co-related with modifications in cloud formation.
 
 In deficient monsoon years, scientists found dust and pollutant particles built up in the atmosphere during the usual monsoon break. “This accumulation of aerosols coincided with the formation of smaller cloud droplets and shallower clouds. When clouds are shallow, they drain out quickly,” the study noted. According to experts from the State Pollution Control Board, the movement of heavy vehicles powered by adulterated fuels is one of the main reasons for the lackadaisical rainfall pattern over the city.
 
 However, some also suggested that heavy construction practices in these areas could be leading to rising pollution levels, since construction usually involves the movement of heavy vehicles and also has a lot of sand and cement particles flying into the air.
 
 “There has been a rise in the number of applications for building permissions from these areas, and we will have to go through our records to figure out,” said GHMC commissioner B Janardhan Reddy.
 
 However, it is not just pollution, experts suggest that the winds flowing in the eastwest pattern, could have also aided in the formation of sudden rain clouds. The wind pattern of the city,   officials say, is showing a west to east movement, which could shuffle the clouds onto this trajectory.
 
 “We predict that the monsoon showers would move from the western corridor to the eastern corridor in the city this year. However, if there is a trough or cyclonic circulation in the Deccan plateau, then there are chances that the rain-bearing clouds would be formed wherever the winds take them,” Dr YK Reddy , director (in-charge), IMD, told TOI.
 
