MUMBAI: Irregularities in disbursement of soft loans and grants to the tune of more than 206 crore were found by the Comptroller and Auditor General. 

 The credit schemes were managed by three corporations formed for the upliftment of backward classes in the  . The CAG report on public sector undertakings was tabled in the legislature on Friday.
 
 Sahitya Ratna Lokshahir Anna Bhau Sathe Development Corporation Ltd ( ), which was formed for the Matang community’s development, gave loans to the tune of Rs 35.34 crore to two companies, Maitari Sugar and Trading Pvt Ltd for business operations and Mahalaxmi Dairy Products Cooperative Ltd for cluster development. In both cases, the beneficiaries did not belong to the Matang community. “Investigations into the disbursement of funds in these cases are being conducted,” reads the report.
 
 Loans to the tune of Rs 104 crore were disbursed to three entities in 2014. In two cases, the then SRLABSDCL chairman granted loans to firms where he had a stake. In one case, a loan was given to the brother of the then SRLABSDCL chairman. 
 
 "The disbursement was directly and indirectly benefitting the then chairman," read the report. Under the SRLABSDCL a sum of Rs 7 lakh can be given to individuals for the purchase of tourist vehicles. But during July-October 2014, six district offices gave Rs 10.14 crore loans to people to buy 64 vehicles, which included luxury vehicles like Mercedes Benz and Audi. The cost of vehicles was much higher than the Rs 7 lakh cap. "The documents and the names of beneficiaries to whom the loans were disbursed didn’t match in some cases. This case too is being investigated by the agencies, " reads the report.
 
 Financial assistance under the SRLABSDCL’s Mahila Samrudhi Scheme was meant for women of the targeted community, but the audit revealed that Rs 30.5 lakh aid was extended to 60 male beneficiaries by the Mumbai district office.
 
 The corporation disbursed Rs 2.93 crore loans to 178 beneficiaries who did not meet the income criterion. In 14 cases, the same income certificates were used by multiple beneficiaries. The age-criterion norm was violated by the corporation while doling out loans. The corporation has maintained record books of the transactions. The audit also revealed that four district managers had withdrawn Rs 47.83 crore in cash between 2014-2015 from the corporation’s bank accounts. The four officials transferred Rs 7.35 crore into the bank accounts of private parties through internet banking. 
 
 “Documents for withdrawals and transfers are unavailable,” said the report.
 
 
