The year 2017 is crucial for  . Up for release is   where he plays a card-carrying student politician, a deviation from his usual comedian roles. His first film as a hero will start shooting this year as well as his first as a scriptwriter. In conversation with Neeraj, who is keeping his fingers crossed... 

 
 
 The Maharajas College was the only option for us as the film needed a politically charged campus. The college still has that 70s feel to it, there hasn't been much polishing in the buildings and the trees are still there. Student politics in colleges was at its peak in the 90s but the movie showcases the period a little afterwards, the 2000s.
 
 
 
 He is called Subhash and has a clear political ideology. He comes from a village and his deep-rooted political stands are revealed only later on. He is a close friend to Tovino's character who is an easy going guy with no political ambitions. The story is about our journey together and the transformations that happen in us. Tovino has a love interest in the film, played by Gayathri Suresh while Shajon and Roopesh Peethambaran play the antagonists.
 I could identify a bit with the character as I'm originally from Kannur. But my college life was in Chennai where I missed the vibrant atmosphere of student politics. At one point students had a justified need but there was no way to address it. So I lived my dreams through this movie.
 However, the film is not a completely 'red' movie as it might appear. It talks about friendship and love as well.
 
 
 
 Yes, Lava Kusha started with a casual conversation I had with Aju Varghese. I started out as an aspiring director and had some simple stories with me. One day I discussed one of them with Aju who said we will do it. Coincidentally, a producer told us both he wanted to do a movie with us and he liked my story. Then Biju Menon joined the cast as a prominent character and it became bigger. It has been titled Lava Kusha and Aju and I will be playing the lead characters. We will start the shoot soon.
 
 
 
 It wasn't easy at all to write a full-fledged script and so I took my own sweet time for it. I used to write short stories but when you write a script you tend to get stuck while connecting multi-linear characters. Jeethu Joseph gave me some tips and pieces of advice. I will be writing more scripts for sure as there are more stories inside me.
 
 Actually 2017 is a crucial year for me, with Oru Mexican Aparatha releasing, my first script getting made into a movie and my solo movie Pipinchuvattile Pranayam is also coming up! I would say, 2015 was practice, 2016 was warm-up, 2017 is game time for me!
 
