JAIPUR: A chapter on emergency has been added in the revised textbooks for the present and coming generations to know who are responsible behind the murder of democracy, confirmed state education minister   in   on Wednesday. Devnani said that in the chapter the present generation would know about the role played by the Maintenance of Internal Security Act (MISA) prisoners. "These prisoners should be declared freedom fighters as they fought for democracy in the country," he said. 

 While referring to the film director   without naming him for presenting a distorted version of history, Devnani said, "A film projecting a love story between   and   is a sheer distortion of history done by the previous government. Irrespective of whether tourism grows or not, or the film gets released or not, the distorted version of history should not be allowed." The statement is seen as an endorsement by the state government of the assault on the film director Bansali. 
 
 Informing about the initiatives taken for value-based and culture-centric education system, the minister took a dig at those opposing the Surya Namaskar in schools. "A section of people celebrates festivals that revolve around the moon but hating sun rays is not fair. If the moon is sacred, so is the sun," said Devnani while reeling off the advantages of exposing oneself to sun rays. "The exposure to sun rays creates positive vibration in students. This will increase their happiness index."
 
 He informed that in order to make students cultured they have introduced   on every Saturday for providing them a platform to enhance their creativity and inculcate values. Along with debate competitions in Hindi, Sanskrit and English should also be added. State education department has extended the travel voucher scheme for girls students from Class IX -XII to class I-XII. The announcement was made by the education minister Vasudev Devnani in the Vidhan Sabha late in the evening on Wednesday. The minister informed that the move would help girl students take the benefit of reforms like integrated schools, Adarsh and Utkarsh schools. Under these schemes students get Rs 800 annually for meeting travel expenses which are directly credited into their accounts. 
 
