AMARAVATI: Nara Lokesh, who did a KTR during the swearing-in ceremony by touching the feet of his father after he took the oath as a minister, has been entrusted with the information technology and panchayat raj departments by chief minister Chandrababu Naidu, thereby ending the over 24-hour suspense over allocation of portfolios. Coincidentally, K T   too handles the same portfolios in the   government. 

 Naidu believes Lokesh will bridge the gap between the rural masses as well as the urban youth and hence gave him the two crucial ministries along with rural development. The portfolio allocation on Monday is a clear indication that Lokesh would play a major role in the next assembly elections, insiders said. Some key portfolios of incumbent ministers were swapped and given to new ministers, while senior ministers were spared from the rigmarole of handling new departments.
 
 Interestingly, key minister from the capital city area,  , was given civil supplies divesting him of agriculture portfolio which will now be handled by Somireddy Chandramohan Reddy, who was also given horticulture, sericulture and agri-processing. K Atchannaidu, who has been credited with effectively defending the government in and outside the assembly, was rewarded with the crucial transport department. He will also handle BC welfare.
 
 TDP state wing president and veteran leader Kala Venkata Rao was given the key energy ministry, which the CM had kept it with himself. Senior minister from north coastal districts, Ch Ayyanna Patrudu, who has to give up the panchayat raj wing to Lokesh, got the roads and buildings department. Kollu Ravindra, who almost was to be dropped, was moved to the low-key sports, youth welfare and law ministry and the important excise portfolio handled by him was given to first-timer  , a former teacher.
 
 Sidda Raghava Rao, who survived mainly due to caste equations, was moved out of the crucial transport and R&B wings, and given the forest and environment portfolios. A new entrant into the cabinet from Chittoor and veteran leader N Amaranatha Reddy has been given the important industries, commerce, food processing and public enterprise, while journalist-turned-politician Kalava Srinivasulu is the new information and public relations minister. He would also handle rural housing.
 
 The youngest face in the cabinet, Bhuma Akhilapriya has been made tourism, Telugu language and culture minister, while Paritala Sunitha will take care of women and child welfare.
 
