PUNE: India’s   and NASA’s Chandra X-ray telescope have played an important part in making a rare discovery about the universe. 

 For the first time, it has been shown that the central dense cores of certain kinds of special galaxies are the source that high energy particles like electrons need to create relic radio emissions that are seen in clusters of galaxies. 
 
 This has been an outstanding problem in understanding the physics of galaxy clusters that make up the large-scale structure of the universe. 
 
 Galaxies are often found in large clusters. Many such clusters also contain large sources of radio emission called ‘relics’, which can be observed easily with telescopes like the  . However, the source that the high energy electrons needed to produce these relics has not been understood so far.
 
 “Our combined observations in radio, x-ray and optical wavelengths of a particular galaxy cluster called Abell 3411 and Abell 3412 have now shown that an active radio galaxy in the cluster is the source of the seed electron, which are accelerated to high energies in special regions of the cluster called shocks,” said Dharam Vir Lal from NCRA in Pune, who is a member of the multi-national team that made this discovery. 
 
 The team is led by   from Harvard Smithsonian  ,   in USA and includes members from many countries.
 
 Data from sensitive observations with the GMRT at low radio frequencies was combined with data from the Chandra X-ray observatory as well as optical images to produce a composite image of the relic in this cluster, and this unique combination made it possible to make the final inference. 
 
 “The contribution of GMRT to this new discovery is significant and it is a tribute to the capability of our observatory,” Professor Yashwant Gupta, Dean GMRT observatory, said. 
 
 “GMRT is operated by the National Centre for Radio Astrophysics, Pune, and in the last decade or so, it has been in the forefront of many exciting new discoveries about our Universe. This unique discovery is a new feather in the cap for GMRT,” said GMRT scientist J S Solanki.
 
 
