LUCKNOW: Prime Minister Narendra Modi's suggestion to senior leaders not to exert pressure on the party leadership for tickets to their kin notwithstanding, the second list for UP Assembly elections released on Sunday evening has many relatives of prominent leaders. Top on the list is UP BJP general secretary  . 

 Son of Union home minister Rajnath Singh, Pankaj has got ticket from Noida after replacing sitting  . 
 
 Batham, in fact, was the one of the two MLAs to have won during byelection out of the total 11 seats vacated by BJP MLAs after they were elected in 2014 general elections. However, she was forced to make way for Pankaj Singh.
 
  The younger Singh had been in ticket contention since 2007 Assembly election when he was almost set to make his debut from Chandauli, the home town of Rajnath Singh. However, the elder Singh being the president of the BJP then in a bid to avoid any controversy did not give younger Singh the party ticket. UP Assembly elections 2012 were no different. However, 2017 Assembly elections have finally paved way for him to contest the poll from Noida. However, Pankaj is not the only kin of a prominent leader to get the party ticket. 
 
 Before Pankaj, Rajasthan governor and former UP CM Kalyan Singh's grandson Sandeep Singh was given the ticket from Atrauli Assembly constituency in the first list reeleased by the party recently. 
 
 Besides, BJP's Kairana MP Hukkum Singh's daughter Mriganka has been given the BJP ticket. The party ticket for Kairana, Noida and Meerut Cantonment constituencies, which would go to poll in the first phase, were not finalised in the first list. Insiders said that the delay was due to the fact that the party think-tank had immense pressure of allotting tickets to the kin of prominent BJP leaders from the state. 
 
 Protesting against Hukkum Singh's inclination towards his daughter Mriganka, his another relative Anil Chauhan, who was also seeking the ticket form Kairana and had contested the bypolls after Hukkum vacated the seat, had quit the BJP a few days back and had joined the RLD led by Ajit Singh. He is now the RLD candidate from Kairana. Adding to this list is sitting MLA from Lucknow (east) Ashutosh Tandon 'Gopalji'.
 
 The sitting MLA, son of former Lucknow MP and confidante of former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, was fielded by the BJP during byelection after the seat was vacated by Kalraj Misra following his victory in Lok Sabha elections from Deoria. Gopal has again got the ticket from the seat. However, Kalraj's son Amit Misra, who was also seeking the ticket from Lucknow (east), has failed to make it to the list. 
 
 Similarly, Mohanlalganj MP Kaushal Kishore has managed to get the ticket for his wife Jaidevi from Maliahabad (reserved). Also in the list is Prateek Bhushan, son of mafia don-turned Gonda MP Brij Bhushan Sharan Singh. Prateek has got the BJP ticket from Gonda Assembly constituency.
 
 Even son of Swami Prasad Maurya Utkarsh, who has got the BJP ticket from Unchahar Assembly constituency. Meanwhile, BJP media in-charge Harish Srivastava said that most of those who have got the ticket have been active in party for long. Their work has been kept in the mind not their family background while giving the party ticket to them, he added.
 
 
