BENGALURU: The Karnataka government's   and give an opportunity to   to extend their buildings vertically , has drawn flak from civic experts.

 In the draft   issued by the urban development department on July 1, the government has proposed to reduce the existing permissible FAR. If a building owner wants to build an additional floor, it will come at a cost as the owner will have to buy premium FAR.
 
 Premium FAR is detrimental to Bengaluru, say civic experts. “The move can only make Bengaluru more congested. If the Floor Area Ratio (FAR) is increased from 2 to 4 with premium FAR, then water usage, parking and drainage capacity have to increase. Will the government make sure civic amenities, too, are enhanced? Before implementing this, the government has to make sure basements of buildings are left vacant for parking,“ said NS Mukunda, founder, Citizen Action Forum. Any change in urban land usage should be preceded by infrastructure provisions. What about the enhancement of water supply , mobility, drainage facilities when the density of population increases in such places?“ asked Sridhar Pabbisetty , CEO,  . “Urban planning has been captured by the real estate mafia. Such a move will only affect the quality of life of all citizens,“ he adds. The concept of premium FAR will only make housing projects expensive for the end customer, says Suresh Hari, vice-president of the Confederation of Real Estate Developers' Associations of India.
 
 “The government should ideally make it easy for a builder to make use of TDRs ( ) to increase the number of floors. If the government implements premium FAR, it can earn revenue from it but home buyers will also end up paying more,“ said Suresh.
 
 Individual property owners, though, see a chance in the proposal to increase FAR legally. “I am constructing my house of two floors on a 30x40sqft site. If the government allows me to construct another floor, though at a cost, it will be helpful. I can buy legal rights to construct an additional floor,“ says Radhakrishna ML, a resident of Mahadevapura. However, wise usage of premium FAR does not cause harm, said Ashwin Mahesh, urban expert. According to Ashwin, premium FAR should be introduced in such a way that it does not exceed current permissible limits.
 
 “If current FAR is 2.2, the permissible limit can be made 1.75 and the rest can be made premium FAR. The last 10%-15% of permissible FAR itself should be made premium FAR, instead of using it to exceed permissible limits. The government should make sure that overall, FAR doesn't result in roads contending with more than their carrying capacity,“ said Ashwin, member of a TDR committee that had looked into these options.
 
 
 
 
 The government's move to introduce premium FAR -you shell out more to build an additional floor -hasn't accounted for many infrastructural needs a measure like this entails. For property owners, this means more money, more floor area to expand their dwelling unit. For a city buffeted by never-ending infrastructure woes, this means more congestion, more chaos and an acute scarcity of stretched resources.Tweaking of urban land usage cannot be arbitrary; it should be thought through. We aren't opposed to governments creating enough revenue streams to keep the coffers in good health. What should rule their mind is the city and its citizens.
 
