BENGALURU: Did former corporator and history-sheeter   alias Naga attempt suicide by consuming phenyl in Central Prison (Parappana Agrahara) where he has been lodged for over two months now? No, say prison officials.

 Dismissing reports saying that Naga tried to kill himself in a jail toilet as false, newly-appointed prison superintendent Somashekar asserted: “No such incident took place.” 
 
 Naga and his sons, N Shastri and N Gandhi, were arrested on May 11, almost a month after demonetized currency notes worth Rs 14.80 crore were seized from his house in Srirampura. Cops from four police stations are questioning the trio in more than nine criminal cases, including kidnap and extortion.
 
 According to reports, Naga was depressed since prison doctors turned down his plea to shift him to a super- specialty hospital for treatment. “He is fit. So the question of shifting him to a hospital doesn’t arise,” prison officials said.
 
 Another official said they are even ready to subject Naga to medical tests which will prove if he had attempted anything drastic. “In the first place, we never keep phenyl in toilets. It’s stored in the warehouse. The person tasked with cleaning the toilets and bathrooms is given phenyl before he begins the job,” he said.
 
 N  , counsel for Nagaraj, also termed the reports ‘mere rumours’.
 
 Nine cases have been registered against Naga and his sons since April 14 when their house in Srirampura was raided by Hennur police. The trio absconded after the raid, which itself was the result of alleged extortion of a businessman who was arrested by   police while trying to convert banned currency. In his complaint to Hennur police, the businessman said Naga first gave him a sizeable sum in legal currency in exchange for demonetized notes. But later his men threatened him at gunpoint and took away all the cash.
 
 After giving police the slip, Naga and his sons escaped to Tamil Nadu in a Maruti Omni which they had borrowed from a friend. Till their arrest on May 11, the three ate in temples and slept on temple pavements or in marriage halls.
 
