GURUGRAM: Around 50 residents, including at least 25 children, of old Gurgaon’s   fell ill allegedly after consuming   supplied by the  . 

 Out of the 25, seven children, who are suffering from diarrhoea, had to be admitted to Gurgaon Civil Hospital late on Thursday evening.
 
 Approximately, 50,000 people, belonging to low-income groups, live in the area.
 
  “We have been receiving polluted water for over a month now. And since most of us cannot afford to buy water, we are forced to drink the contaminated water. As a result many of us have now landed in hospital,” said Savita, one of the residents who have been suffering from loose motion and stomach ache.
 
 The residents alleged that they had approached the MCG, complaining about the dirty water being supplied to them, several times in the past one month, but in vain.
 
 “Though the entire area has been facing the problem, the situation is the worst in the lane Nos 2 and 5. But our plight has failed to move anyone in the civic body, which has turned a blind eye to the entire crisis,” said Subhash, who has brought his ailing son to the general hospital for better treatment.
 
 Sources in the health department said a team of officials visited the area and collected samples on Thursday as reports of residents falling ill started pouring in.
 
 “We took samples of water supplied to the area, and preliminary tests did indicate contamination. However, we are conducting more tests to check the level of contamination in the water,” said Ram Prakash, officer, Malariya department.
 
 “We are now monitoring the quality of water and the corporation is ensuring that pure water is supplied to the area. Besides, the people there are living in highly unhygienic conditions. We are going to organise a health camp in the area to ensure that the problem does not aggravate,” he added.
 
 Chief medical officer BK Rajoura has also sent a team of doctors to the colony for further inspection.
 
 MCG officials, despite repeated calls, did not respond.
 
