Bagha Purana/Bargari: Baptised Sikh brothers Rupinder and  , who were accused of Faridkot sacrilege incident of Guru Granth Sahib, are now making a slow yet surprise comeback in public life two weeks ahead of polls.

 Torn pages of the Sikh holy book were recovered outside a gurdwara in Bargari in Faridkot on October 12, 2015, while a bir of the holy book was stolen from Burj Jawahar Singwala village on June 1. This had triggered massive protests and Punjab had seen outbreak of two dozen sacrilege incidents, leading to anger against the government which had later handed over the cases to the CBI.
 
 The brothers, who were arrested on October 20, 2015, and released by cops two weeks later following widespread protests by Sikh religious groups, have pledged support for Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) ahead of the February 4 polls. The two made a brief appearance at a rally by AAP’s Bagha Purana candidate Capt Kang three days ago.
 
 While their arrest had triggered peaceful protests by Sikh religious groups and even drew support from the opposition Congress, the brothers say they have made a “well-thought decision to support AAP”. Both AAP and the Congress had come out in support of the brothers.
 
 “Any Punjabi Sikh would not forget how the Badal government arrested us and continued to allow desecration of the holy book across the state. They had arrested us based on a 40-second audio clip which neither stood as evidence in court of law nor they showed readiness to release the entire clip. They wanted to hide their own shameful act of desecration of the holy book and thought they could slap a false FIR against us to save themselves,” Rupinder told TOI.
 
 “We are supporting AAP because they have clean candidates with no criminal background. Sikh preachers across the state will give support it because SAD has lost its Panthic value and the Congress still harbours 1984 accused. We can never forget the wounds of 1984 riots. My cell phone number ends with 0601984. AAP lawyer H S Phoolka’s contribution to bring perpeterators to book and the party’s genuine desire to set up SIT in Delhi to investigate the cases is beyond words,” says Rupinder.
 
 While Rupinder works as a Sikh preacher, Jaswinder runs a small-time grocery shop. 
 
 “Our village and entire Punjab had come in our support. What   did on TV while announcing our arrest was all drama. It is not just the political parties which are saying this, every true Sikh is saying that the Akali Dal government is behind the sacrilege incidents to fan communalism and hide the failures of vast crop damage, endless farmer suicides and unemployment protests,” says Rupinder.
 
 “In fact, when the CBI sleuths came last year, they asked for our help to identify the real culprits. This shows how false their case was,” adds Rupinder.
 
 
