LUCKNOW:   to reach   village in  ,   Mayawati staged a road show on Tuesday. The Dalit leader, who usually stays away from the crowd citing security reasons, interacted with her supporters as passed through Ghaziabad and Meerut by road on Tuesday. 

 Mayawati’s stopped her cavalcade more than a dozen times and come out of her car to wave at supporters. This was perhaps the first time in many years when Mayawati came so close to supporters who had, otherwise, seen the BSP supremo only during election rallies.
 
 BSP sources said an informal plan to assemble party supporters in at least 20 locations between New Delhi and   was chalked out soon after Mayawati was denied a permission to fly into Saharanpur. Sources said the BSP got a team comprising   MPs Siddharth Ashok and Munqad Ali and former MLC and in charge of west UP R S Kushwaha to organise the show.
 
 Mayawati had blamed the Yogi government of compromising on her security and deliberately denying her a permission to reach Saharanpur by a helicopter. “The ruling BJP government is casteist and anti-Dalit,” she said. “UP government will be responsible if any problem occurs during my visit,’’ she said.
 
 A BSP functionary accompanying Mayawati said she stopped the cavalcade on seeing a group of cheering party supporters gathered at the Delhi-Ghaziabad border. Here, she came out of her car to wave at her supporters even as security staff scurried to ensure her safety. “We have never seen her holding a road show,” said a senior BSP functionary, requesting not to be quoted. The leader cited how Mayawati refused to go to Varanasi on   last year for security reasons. 
 
 A couple of days ago scores of Dalits staged a demonstration in New Delhi protesting against violence in Saharanpur where Dalits were attacked by members of the upper caste and their houses burnt down. 
 
 Political observers said the Saharanpur incident has given Mayawati opportunity to recover lost ground by reaching out to Dalits who deserted her in large numbers to side with the BJP. “She has also been facing intense criticism for not meeting her supporters and remaining ensconced in her Delhi and Lucknow bungalows,” said a political commentator.
 
