AMRITSAR: Stating that the Indo Pak trade was the most dangerous thing in the present circumstances,   MP   said that, “It is due to the Indo-Pak trade that Punjab has gained notoriety of ‘Udta Punjab’. You can’t trust Pakistan even in having cultural relations, who knows in the name of culture exchange they could send RDX in tabla and something else in sitar.”

 Amar Singh was part of a parliamentary standing committee on external affairs that arrived here on Sunday to prepare report on Indo-Pak relations. Singh said the time was not apt to expect cordial relations with Pakistan, especially when it was trying to hang an innocent Indian. He said Prime Minister   broke protocol to meet Pak president Nawaz Sharif and also invited him on his swearing-in ceremony, yet Pakistan was pushing in terrorists into India. He said it would be suicidal to expect Pakistan to have good relations with India when it had shaken hands with China. 
 
 Congress MP Shashi Tharoor said that they were on a tour to prepare a report on relations with Pakistan. Speaking on the Indo-Pak relations, he said that it had been nearly 20 years ever since India had given most favoured nation status to Pakistan, but it had been one sided. He said it was not possible to have normal or even other relations if there were complications in ties. “When terrorists are coming from Pakistan, how can we expect normal relations,” he said.
 
 Amritsar Lok Sabha MP Gurjit Singh Aujla said the committee had earlier visited a post office, passport seva kendra in Leh followed by discussion with the representatives of ministry of external affairs, regional passport office (Srinagar) and agencies concerned on the implementation of the Passport Seva Project. He further said that discussions were held with the representatives of ministry of defence on the subject ‘Indo-Pak relations’ concerned with the prevailing situation on the LoC. In Amrtisar, the committee will visit the integrated check post. The committee had begun its tour from Leh on Saturday.
 
