KOLKATA: Yet another road   involving Tollywood personalities ended in the death of  , the model-actress who used to anchor the Indian Pro Kabaddi League. Popular actor   Chatterjee, who was in the driver’s seat, was seriously injured in Saturday’s pre-dawn accident that occurred near the Rashbehari crossing.

 The white sedan, according to information pieced together by cops, was hurtling from east to west (travelling from the direction of Deshapriya Park towards the Rashbehari junction) on Rashbehari Avenue when it lost control, mounted the pavement, hit a footpath memorial, turned over and continued to spin till it hit a roadside shop and stopped. The impact was so severe that the concrete structure cracked up and the noise woke up people staying in the vicinity.
 
 Vikram somehow managed to crawl out of the car. But   took the full impact of the crash and was bleeding from her head, ears and nose when Vikram, with the help of a few locals, brought her out. She was taken to Ruby Hospital but bled to death around 4.50am.
 
 Police officials, after a preliminary inspection of the car, suspect that Sonika might not have been wearing the seat-belt though Vikram possibly had strapped himself, which might explain why he survived the crash. Car technicians said air bags would not get deployed if the impact was angular and not directly frontal.
 
 Doctors and well-wishers, who visited Vikram later during the day, said the actor had suffered multiple injuries on the head, leg and other parts of body. He was first admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU). “Vikram was admitted with a lacerated injury on his scalp. It was repaired immediately. He is now undergoing treatment under a team of doctors comprising general, orthopaedic and neurosurgeons and a general physician,” Ruby Hospital medical director Dr Debasish Sarma said. He underwent two CT scans and was shifted from the ICU to a general bed late in the evening. He is likely to undergo an MRI scan.
 
 There were two versions of what could have led the car to swerve so violently to the left and hit the pavement at the Rashbehari Avenue-Tara Road crossing. Vikram’s father, Bijoy Chatterjee, claimed the sedan mounted the pavement while trying to avoid another car that had come out without any warning from inside Tara Road. “A man, who brought both Sonika and Vikram to the hospital, mentioned this,” he said.
 
 But a section of locals and traffic police officials contested this. Witnesses that TOI spoke to said the car was travelling at breakneck speed. “The sound was deafening,” said Jayanta Sain, a resident of a building near the jewellery shop where the car came to rest. “We were forced out of our sleep. It was still dark outside and, when I peeped out of the window, I saw some people taking the occupants of the overturned car into another car,” he said. The mangled remains of the car were towed to the Tollygunge police station and a mechanical test would be carried out on it.
 
 Senior officers, including DC (South) Praveen Tripathi and joint CP (Headquarters) Supratim Sarkar, did not answer queries about the accident but other officials confirmed that Vikram had been named in the FIR that included IPC Sections 304A (causing death by negligence), 279 (rash driving), 338 (causing grievous hurt by an act endangering the life or personal safety of others) and 427 (mischief causing damage). Cops refused to ascertain whether Vikram was drunk when he was driving.
 
 “We have not lodged any case against the car manufacturer as we have not got any written complaint from Vikram’s family,” an official said. Cops also want to know from doctors if Vikram was initially discharged before he again felt unwell and had to be re-admitted.
 
