KOLKATA: NDA presidential nominee   may have numbers to back him but he is likely to fare his worst in the Bengal assembly.

 Barring three MPs — all belonging to the ruling   — who are expected to vote in New Delhi, all others are expected to cast their vote in Kolkata. Among two other MPs, Kunal Ghosh on Sunday indicated that he was yet to decide whether or not to cast his vote and to whom. 
 
 Imprisoned Trinamool MP Tapas Paul is unlikely to cast his vote (rules allow him to do so with the jail superintendent’s permission) on “medical grounds”. An ailing Paul has been undergoing treatment in a Bhubaneswar hospital.
 
 With Left Front and Congress, along with Trinamool, deciding to back  , only six MLAs — three each from BJP and GJM — are likely to cast their votes for Kovind. 
 
 So, 288 MLAs in the Bengal assembly are expected to vote for Kumar. 
 
 Every MLA who votes for Kumar has a vote value of 151, making the total value of votes cast in her favour likely to be 43,488. Barring two BJP Lok Sabha MPs and Ghosh and Paul, 54 MPs (39 in Lok Sabha and 15 in Rajya Sabha) too are expected to vote for Kumar; the value of their votes is 708. Altogether, Kumar is expected to get around 81,720 vote value from Bengal; at 7.4% of the total electoral college votes, this is easily among the highest in the country.
 
 The Bengal assembly is second only to Uttar Pradesh’s in total value of votes in the electoral college.
 
 According to Trinamool insiders, except party MP K D Singh, a New Delhi resident, actor-turned-MP Dev (who is returning to Delhi from the US) and Sugata Bose (who is in Delhi to meet Nobel laureate Amartya Sen on Tuesday), all their MPs will vote in the assembly. 
 
 Chief minister   is likely to address party legislators and MPs ahead of polling. She is also scheduled to hold a cabinet meeting in the assembly on the sidelines of the polls.
 
 Besides the presence of two representatives, one each for the two presidential candidates, armed personnel of Kolkata Police will be posted inside the assembly on Monday.
 
 The ballot boxes will leave for Delhi amid tight security on Tuesday.
 
 
