PANAJI:   started a new chapter as head coach of the Indian women’s senior team with a 2-2 draw against hosts   in the first of the two friendlies at the Kompleks Sukan PKNS sports facility in Petaling Jaya on Friday.
 
  India were trailing by a goal at halftime but bounced back through  .   then gave them the lead but their opposition restored parity in the dying minutes after India’s defence lost concentration.
  
  Maymol, who created history by becoming the first ever female head coach of the senior side, was satisfied with the fight put up by the girls. “I am happy with the result. The girls are settled now. The Malaysian team is strong enough. We can’t say they are weak and cannot take them lightly,” said Maymol.
  
  The lack of competitions is a major hurdle for the Indian side and the two matches had been arranged by the All India Football Federation (AIFF) to provide more exposure to the women’s team. They last took part in the AFC Asian Cup Qualifiers 2018 in April and suffered a disastrous campaign in South Korea when   was at the helm of affairs.
  
  Three months later, Maymol, who worked as an assistant to Dar, has retained the core of the side and is building a team for the future. The Goa-based coach previously guided the India Under-16 girls side and has promoted five juniors — goalkeeper Panthoi Chanu, defenders Jabamani Tudu, Dalima Chhibber and forwards Pyari Xaxa and Kashmina.
  
  The team camped in Delhi only for 10 days before their tour but are now gelling well with Maymol’s style of play.
  
  “Every coach has a different approach but I think it looks like they are comfortable. The team is almost the same but we are working hard to correct the mistakes. That’s what my staff and I are in the process and hopefully it will help us more to refine our errors.”
  
  Women’s football in India has been on a high with the inaugural edition of the Indian Women’s League and with more international matches, the national side can certainly improve their Fifa Ranking of 60.
  
  “The girls showed confidence and scored two goals against the Malaysian team but we conceded goals because of our errors. Overall, the girls played well, their all pumped up for their second match and the fitness levels are improving. The team has to play on the given day and give their best. On Monday they have to go all out,” said Maymol.
  
  Malaysia on the other hand, who are ranked 80 will try to make most of the home advantage and salvage their pride unless Maymol and her team comes with something special.
  
  
  
