MUMBAI: Sukhkarta and Vignaharta will help the   district tide over its  . They are two dams named after the lord Ganesh, built as a part of a unique initiative by the district administration and the Ganpati mandals.

 Last year, the local police and the Sangli collectorate launched the initiative to celebrate a ‘no-Dolby’ or ‘Dolby-free’ Ganpati festival. The government held meetings with the mandals to convince them to shun this practice. It took nearly 262 meetings later most madals were on board. “But, during our discussions with our mandals we realized that we had to give them a cause for which loudspeakers have to be shunned. And that cause for us was water and soil conservation,” said Dattatraya Shinde, Superintendent of Police, Sangli.
 
 Shinde said they urged the mandals to contribute the money they would have spent to hire loudspeakers for the 10-day festival to a central kitty at the collector’s office. A total of 836 mandals collected Rs 28 lakh and they decided to construct two cement nullah bands in two villages in the drought-prone district. The dams constructed in Malewadi and Manerajuri villages were names Sukhkarta and Vignaharta—after Ganpati. “These two dams will bring prosperity in these villages and also keep dark clouds of drought away,” said Shekhar Gaikwad, former collector of Sangli, who was recently transferred to Groundwater Survey and Development Authority.
 
 It was no way an easy task, they had to rope in doctors to show the mandals the ill-effects of loud noise. “Even from the point of view of law and order, loud music late in the night was causing a lot of problems and many people were getting inconvenienced,” said Shinde. He said that during meetings with the mandals they reiterated the very principle for which Lokmanya Tilak decided to start celebrating Ganpati festival: bringing the society together and find solutions to issues that ail their neighbourhood. “Water scarcity is an issue for our district and we decided to tackle that while celebrating the festival. The funds collected were used under the Jalyukt Shivar programme and dams were built by the minor irrigation department,” said Gaikwad.
 
 Both dams have a span of 200-300 metres and will be a boon to the villages, which are in the rain shadow area —rainfall often evades them. Chief minister   inaugurated the dam at Malewadi which was built at the cost of Rs 14 lakh. “On the walls of the dams, we have got the message written that these dams were built under the ‘No-Dolby’ initiative,” said Shinde.
 
 Ajay Jadhav, member of a Ganpati mandal, said, “Earlier, we were sceptical about the idea. Today, when we see the two dams, we are proud of the decision we took. We realized that the same money that we use to hire loudspeaker can be used for such constructive purpose,” said Jadhav.
 
 Maybe the campaign has a lesson for Mumbai ahead of the Ganpati festival!
 
