By: 
 

  – the woman from the city, who had gone missing in   where she had gone on the promise of a   – is home at last. But her narrative of her   in the Arabic country is the stuff of nightmares.
 
 Bangalore Mirror had carried her story ‘Missing in the Middle East’ on March 26, explaining how Ranjitha was sold for Rs 3 lakh to work as a maid in Saudi and was waiting to be rescued. She was made to work in a new house every single week for no food or money. Two days after, on March 28, Ranjitha had come back home.
 
 Mirror met the woman, who explained how a local NGO gave her moral support to fight and survive there and how she escaped from the clutches of a big trafficking business. She lives with her husband near Hesaraghatta. 
 
 Ranjitha had left for Saudi from Delhi on September 9, but was subjected to physical abuse from the day she got there. After working in more than 40 residences, she finally managed to escape. “I was made to work all day and night. I would be taken to other places blindfolded so that I wouldn’t be able to locate the area. If I asked for money, they would beat me. Even my hand was burned using hot oil. I thank god and everyone who helped me get out of that hell,” she said.
 
 After escaping, she had gone out on the street and begged for help. Many of the shopkeepers, who were Malayalis, initially refused to help her. But after she started crying in the middle of the road, they came forward and asked her to go to the police, saying they would help her get her passport and money back. Eventually, the police arrived and took her into custody and that was the last time she spoke with her husband, Bhaskaran. Her phone was taken at the police station and she was sent to a hostel where more than 1,000 women, she said, were waiting for help.
 
 She was kept, inside a small hall, which consisted of about 30 Indian women, whose conditions were worse than hers, she said. “There are many other Indian women, who needs help right now or they would die.
 
 They have been beaten and god knows how many other Indians were there; I was kept inside a hall, which had 30 of us. There are still many workers under that agent and in India, every day, agents like Kavitha and Meeran Nagur trick innocents and sell them in the Middle East.”
 
 When Ranjitha was taken inside the hostel, she was promised that she would be sent back to India within two to three days. But she was kept there for more than 20 days, although, she said, she was treated well and was given food and clothing. But the officials were in no hurry to release her, she said.
 
 Officials from the Indian embassy visited the hostel often and she was requesting them to send her back to India. After a few days, when she lost her cool, she shouted at an Indian Embassy official, who then called up the agent (the one who hit her, and her employer) to police station and submitted her passport and said he will arrange her travel back to India and pay her dues. But even that rang hollow because she was again left to wait for days. She had somehow managed to save around 600 Saudi Riyal. 
 
  
 
 
 After 20 days, when she saw that nobody was coming to help her, she decided to buy her own ticket. But the police told her that the ticket would cost 1,000 Riyal.
 “I gave them 600 Riyal and told them that I have only this, but they were not ready to help.”
 
 Back at the hostel, Ranjitha started begging and managed to mop up 350 Riyal more in small bits from helpful people. Even after she had sold her earrings for 5-10 Riyal, she was still short of 50. “There was an Indian lady official who would come occasionally to check on us. I begged her for the money. Eventually she relented and gave me 50 bucks and asked me not to tell anyone. I am grateful to her. It’s because of her 50 bucks that I am here now.”
 
 She went to the police with all the money and demanded a ticket home. And that’s how her ordeal ended.
 
 Ranjitha said it was the support from her husband as well as M Narayanaswamy, the General Secretary of Neravu Charitable Trust, an NGO, that guided her through her nightmarish ordeal. They were constantly in touch with her, guiding her on what to do next before she even went to the police station. The NGO also supported her in getting a lawyer in India and take the case to the High Court. But not that Ranjitha is safely home, she can’t stop thinking about the others she lived with, who were just as trapped.
 
 “There are many women stuck there without money. If nothing is done, they will be in huge trouble,” she said.
 
 
