KOLKATA: The  , which has often led to a blackout of the Zee bouquet of channels on the  , has taken a nasty turn. The Zee group — through one of its subsidiaries — has lodged an FIR against   claiming they have so far been cheated of around Rs 19 crore by the MSO’s directors. Zee has also claimed that the directors had infringed the copyright and aired   without authorization in   after its channels were withdrawn due to non-payment.

 After being blacked out last Saturday, Zee channels were back on the Manthan platform on Thursday morning. This was the fourth blackout to hit Manthan since December. In January, Star TV withdrew its channels from Manthan for a fortnight over non-payment of dues of around Rs 27 crore.
 
 “The directors of Manthan Broadband Services Pvt Ltd, with their common intention, had reportedly stolen signals of ZEE (ZEE Bangla, ZEE Cinema, 24 Ghanta and others) and distributed the same through digital signals illegally since May 1 across Bowbazar and adjacent areas. This is even after ZEE has already switched off the signals to those connections. Thus, accused persons infringed the copyright of the complainant’s company by distributing its signals in an unauthorized manner by means of IRD boxes and viewing cards issued by the complainant’s company to the accused persons causing wrongful loss of Rs 1 crore per month. The accused persons had not even paid the outstanding dues of Rs 18.98 crores and thereby cheated the complainant’s company,” the FIR stated.
 
 Manthan director Sudip Ghosh said the matter was sub judice and the MSO was consulting legal experts to contest Zee’s claims. “We can only say that we have got a favourable verdict from the tribunal that has ordered Zee to provide their feed to us. Under these circumstances, why should we even pirate feeds? We deny the charges,” said Ghosh.
 
 Industry insiders claimed Manthan was a habitual offender and had been defaulting frequently. “They have devised this unscrupulous system of extracting discounts from broadcasters like Star and Zee. First, they default on payment that leads to a blackout of channels by the broadcaster. Manthan then goes into an extended negotiation and don’t budge till they have been given a hefty concession. They have been saving money like this,” said an MSO official.
 
 IPC sections 379 (theft), 420 (cheating), 34 (common intention) along with sections 63, 65 and 68 of the Copyright Act, 1959, have been slapped against Manthan directors. “We have registered the case. We are sending notices to both sides,” said an investigating officer.
 
 
