His presence on small screen is hard to ignore. His characters have taken epic proportions and redefined popularity. That’s   for you. After being one of the most popular television actors, Amar will soon be making his Gujarati movie debut with  , a film that also stars Tiku Talsania, Aditya Gandhvi and Monal Gajjar. And he feels the “timing couldn’t have been better” as the Gujarati film industry is in one of its best phases. Amar, who was in Ahmedabad recently, caught up with AT for a chat. Excerpts:
 
 You will soon be debuting in a Gujarati film. You think this is the right time?
 I don’t think there can be a better time than this to get into the Gujarati film industry. You know, as a kid I used to watch a lot of Gujarati films and that was the time when the industry was at its peak. Wonderful films were being made with some of the most popular names in Bollywood lining to do Gujarati films. And then suddenly the standard of the films went down and so did the industry. But now I can see that films are getting better. There is an ever growing enthusiasm in filmmakers who are trying to make films that will attract audience. This is what the industry needs right now. And if we continue making good films, we can surely bring back the golden era of Gujarati films.
 
 So were you always open to doing Gujarati films?
 I was always interested in doing Gujarati films. As a Gujarati I feel connected to the industry and I feel it is one of my own. This is the time when we should all make an effort to uplift the industry. And I can see a lot of people are trying their bit by either acting in films or directing films or even contributing in other capacity. I am doing the same. If popular names get associated with the films, it will definitely make an impact.
 
 Do you think the audience is now more open to regional cinema?
 The audience wants good films, and it doesn’t matter which language it is. Don’t we watch foreign films? And the best part is Gujarati films can have a wide spread audience if tapped well. Not just in India, there are so many Gujaratis across the world who are willing to watch good films. It is surprising that in spite of such huge audience good films were not made. If Marathi cinema can do it, Bhojpuri and Southern films can do it, then why not Gujarati?
 
