The recently announced goods and service tax reform by the Central government could burn a hole in the pocket of an average moviegoer in Kerala. The GST council has subsumed all service and   collected by State governments, and has put a cap on it at 28% for movie tickets. 

 However, in Kerala the hurdle is that the State government does not collect the entertainment tax and it is the local bodies – the panchayats, municipalities and corportations – that levy the taxes at 15%, 20% and 25% respectively. Hence, those taxes would stand, as the GST amount is irrespective of the tax collected by local bodies, says a senior official from the Central Board of Excise and Customs. 
 
 
 This means that   prices would surge, says Anil V Thomas, official from The Kerala Film Chamber of Commerce. “Currently, for instance, a ticket costing `100 includes the local body entertainment tax, cess and service tax. With the addition of GST, the ticket would cost `28 more. Depending on the theatres, this amount will increase and would be passed on ultimately to the audience. The hike would definitely deter them from coming in.”
 
 Tax expert P M Veeramani calls this “a regressive step” for slotting the movie tickets in the highest slab of GST, along with luxury goods and services. “Cinema is the basic mode of entertainment for a common man and by levying both local body taxes and GST, movie tickets are going to cost a bang. It’s not fair to slot it along with IPL games, beauty pageants or amusement parks as they are frequented only by the affluent in the society,” he says.
 
  The GST reform would have a serious backlash on the film industry in Kerala, especially with theatres in rural areas closing down. “So, from a business point of view as well as a burden on the audience, it’s not a move that will help the film industry here,” says Veeramani.
 
 
 While experts say that the audience will have to shell out more to watch movies in theatres, those in the film industry are worried about the impact and are waiting on the State government to provide more clarity.
 
  B Unnikrishnan, FEFKA general secretary and managing director of a theatre in Trivandrum, says that the exhibitors still have no clarity on how the government plans to implement the tax reform.
 
 “It’s unfair to deduct two types of taxes for entertainment. However, that said, I don’t think anyone would be stupid enough to let that happen in the first place because people aren’t going to come to theatres with such a surge in prices,” he says.
 
 The GST reform has also revised the rules of service tax levied on the theatres. “Till now, the producer to exhibitor and distributor to exhibitor services are exempted from service tax. With new rules, we are unclear about whether this will be at 18% or 28%. That amount will also be transferred to the end user that is the audience, which is terrible,” says Anil V Thomas, adding that they will also have to study aspects of distributor share while fixing the price of a movie ticket.
 
 Another technicality that requires clarity, says industry insiders, is that before the GST reform was announced, reports had it that it would only be applicable for movie tickets above `250. However, the official from Central Board of Excise and Customs, confirms that the clause of `250 is not valid for movie tickets.
 
 This has also sent ripples of anxiety among many. Film producers association representative G Suresh Kumar says, “None of us are sure about how the government will implement this. We had approached the State   for clarification and he has agreed to discuss the matter by the end of this month. By then we will have a clear picture on how to go forward.”
 
 
 
 While the film industry awaits the state government’s decision, Veeramani says that the finance minister must have been fully aware when the decision to implement GST in Kerala was taken. “The State government should immediately cancel the local body taxes so that it doesn’t become an unbearable and unfair burden to the customers,” he says.
 
 Supporting him, N Ramalingam, Associate professor at a prominent finance and taxation institute in Kochi, says that the current GST comprises of two components – half belonging to the state and the other, to the centre.
 
  “In States like Tamil Nadu, the entertainment tax is collected by the State and so they can now only collect the GST,” he says. “In Kerala though, the State government can now take a decision to stop the local bodies from collecting the entertainment tax and compensate them from the State’s 14% share of 28% GST,” he says.
 
 While he says that this decision too could face opposition, it would at least reduce the extra burden on the consumer.
 
 
 
 Sachin George, a techie, says, “Every year there is a surge in ticket price. Last year, it was due to a cess. But that was just ` 3, so it didn’t have much of an impact. However, a rise of more than `25 for a ticket will definitely mean a lot of people, especially families, will refrain from going to the movies more than once a month.” 
 
 Agreeing with him, Susan Philip, an engineer, says that dual tax for entertainment defeats the purpose of ‘One Nation, One Tax’ slogan of GST. “Why do we have to pay for entertainment tax for local bodies as well as to the central government? That’s not fair. As it is, the ticket prices in multiplexes cost close to `150 and with this, it would rise again. Maybe we should also have a cap for ticket prices like in Karnataka so that they don’t become unaffordable for the common man.” 
 
