GURUGRAM:   within municipal limits, of size not less than 500 square metres, may now be used as  , as per a   formulated by the  . Parking charges will be decided by the civic body. 

 Residents and administration alike have welcomed the decision, in the wake of the perpetually shrinking parking space in the city.
 
 Announcing the much-needed policy on Wednesday, urban local bodies minister Kavita Jain said even though the size of the vacant plot should not be less than 500sqm, clubbing of adjacent plots of lesser size, under same or different ownership, with an undertaking of consent, would be allowed to make the minimum area up to 500sqm.
 
 “Permission would be granted subject to payment of licence fee of Rs 100/sqm a year. Parking fee for the vehicles would be decided by the concerned authority — municipal corporation, municipal council or municipal committee, as the case may be. Any person who desires to utilise his plot to provide parking space would have to submit an application to the officer concerned, along with revenue documents of the plot,” Jain said.
 
 “Only surface parking will be allowed on the plot, which should be levelled. No permanent construction will be allowed, except for a washroom and a ticket- or guard-room, not more than 50sqft each. Permission shouldn’t be considered as change in land use or any other permanent permissions. It’s a temporary permit to provide parking service. The permission will be issued and renewed every calendar year, as per the area’s need. The renewal would be allowed subject to payment of licence fee for the permission,” she further said.
 
 Owners of   need to ensure there is no public inconvenience caused due to the parking site, else authorities will revoke the permission without notice. The owner will also have to ensure that no vehicle is parked on the road within the parking lot’s influence zone, which would be decided on basis of its capacity by the authority. The owner will also need to put up a sign board regarding use of the site as parking lot, and display the rates.
 
 MCG has welcomed the move. “This policy is a win-win for everyone in a city like Gurgaon. Land owners who want to earn revenue from vacant plots, can do so; and the city’s parking problem will also get addressed. We hope to receive a good response,” said a civic official.
 
 
