 Bareilly: Uttar Pradesh minister for finance Rajesh Agarwal on Saturday said that the Yogi government has warned officials that no file is to stay at their tables for more than a week. Ministers, he said, have been asked not to take files home and finish their work at office. The finance minister also said that a new instruction will soon be issued for Uttar Pradesh Housing and Development Board to work along with Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana.   Addressing media persons on Saturday at the Circuit House here, Agarwal who is an MLA from Bareilly Cantonment said, “Chief minister Yogi Aditya Nath has taken an important decision that no file will remain at the table of any person for more than a week. If this happens, strict action will be taken against the official. The CM has also directed state ministers that they cannot carry files to their house. They will have to dispose all matters from their office only.”    The finance minister said sugar mills have been directed to clear payments within 14 days. “A new direction will soon be given to Uttar Pradesh Housing and Development Board to work with Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana and other similar housing schemes. After all these schemes will be combined, it will be decided how many houses will be constructed in how much time considering people from all backgrounds,” said Agarwal. He added that a blueprint was also being prepared to stop cybercrimes in the state.    Agarwal said that the state government will soon take action those who have illegally encroached upon ponds and river, following the order of National Green Tribunal (NGT). “We will demolish buildings and dig up the area to revitalise ponds,” he said. The minister said that the state government is planning to create a land bank under the industrial policy because industries will come to the state only when land is available.    In a decision which will provide relief to elderly inmates at Bareilly district and central jail, the minister said, “I have asked officials at district and central jails of Bareilly to identify prisoners who are aged 75 years or above. If such inmates have completed 10 years of their sentence, the state government will take steps to release them on the occasion of Independence Day, Diwali and Gandhi Jayanti. Steps will also be taken to release innocent children whose mothers are lodged in women’s jail. Such children have not done anything wrong.”