PATNA: Several activities were organised in the state capital on Wednesday to invite people to join the human chain proposed to be formed on January 21 for creating awareness about the harmful effects of alcoholism.

 The fifth edition of  ,  , which is organised every year by the Patna Dairy, this year also focused on the issue with banners put up at the contest venue asking people to shun liquor and start consuming milk. At least 700 people participated in the contest.
 
 In the women’s category, Kankarbagh resident   gobbled down 3.5kg of curd in the prescribed three minutes to emerge winner. Pushpa Kumari of Rukanpura and Prema Tiwari of CDA Colony finished second and third by savouring 2.38kg and 2.34kg of curd respectively.
 
 In the men’s category, Pranay Shankar Kant of Jehanabad devoured 3.79kg of curd in the prescribed three minutes to bag the first prize. Anil Kumar of Meethapur ended up second while Rakesh Kumar of Kankarbagh finished third by eating 3.14kg and 3.1kg of curd respectively.
 
 R B Arya won the contest in the senior citizens’ category. He ate 2.42kg of curd in three minutes.
 
 Meanwhile, a large number of schoolchildren participated in a painting competition organised by the district administration at  , and through their paintings gave the message that liquor was detrimental to health and society.
 
  
  In the category for students from classes VI to VIII, Rajkaran of St Michael’s High School won the first prize while Saumya Sharan of Loyala High School and Akshit Kumar of St Xavier’s High School won the second and third prizes respectively.
 
 In the category for students from classes IX to XII, the painting of Ravishankar of Patna High School was adjudged the best. The second prize in this category was won by Arushi Sinha of Notre Dame Academy and the third prize by Neha Kumari of Gardanibagh High School.
 
 In another incident, students under the aegis of Bihar Public School and Children Welfare Association formed a human chain at Rukanpura on Wednesday and raised slogans against alcoholism. They were also carrying placards. 
 
 Patna Municipal Corporation commissioner Abhishek Singh told TOI the civic body would provide at least 23 water tankers and put up kiosks to provide drinking water to people on January 21 on the human chain’s 70km stretch that falls under its jurisdiction. All the road over bridges on the stretch will be washed a day before the human chain formation, he said.
 
