The great   was born on April 12, 1917. It was only fitting that on the occasion of his 100th birth anniversary, the   ( ), though inadvertently, did something that might forever annul the stigma attached to Mankading, the form of dismissal always associated with the Indian allrounder from the day he caught an over-adventurous Bill Brown napping at the non-striker's end in Sydney in 1947.

 On Tuesday, the MCC issued a summary document outlining all the changes to the Laws of Cricket that will come into effect around the world on 1 October 2017. Among them, one of the most important revisions is regarding Mankading. The MCC has changed Law 42.15 - The law that enables the bowler to run out the non-striker before the delivery, to Law 41.16 - Non-striker leaving his/her ground early, stating that "changing the title of the Law, to put the onus on the non-striker to remain in his/her ground. It is often the bowler who is criticised for attempting such a run out but it is the batsman who is attempting to gain an advantage. The message to the non-striker is very clear - if you do not want to risk being run out, stay within your ground until the bowler has released the ball." 
 
 Though it is not illegal to dismiss batsmen who venture out before they deliver the ball, bowlers often refrain from doing so as it would be construed as something against the 'spirit of cricket'. In the history of Test cricket, there have been only four instances Mankading, the latest in 1978-79. In ODIs, it has happened five times only and on each occasion with much furore. 
 
 In the past, there had been instances when batsmen were let off the hook by lenient bowlers, sometimes at a great cost, like Courtney Walsh refusing to run Saleem Jaffer of Pakistan out in the 1987 World Cup. West Indies lost out on a semifinal spot as a result of Walsh's magnanimity. More recently,  , who was standing in as captain for India in a tri-series match in Australia against Sri Lanka in 2012, withdrew an appeal after   had Mankaded  . However, with the game becoming professional and the batsmen trying to take every possible advantage, there have been calls to let go of the vague notion of 'spirit' and not let someone take undue advantage. 
 
 The 2014 ODI series between England and Sri Lanka saw Jos Buttler getting Mankaded after backing up too far as Lankan spinner Sachithra Senanayake showed no mercy. To be fair to Senanayake, he had warned the English keeper prior to that and the Sri Lankans had every right to stand by their appeal. This, the last instance of Mankading in ODIs, had triggered fresh debates. Two years later, in the U-19 World Cup in Bangladesh, West Indies reached the quarterfinal after seamer Keemo Paul controversially Mankaded Zimbabwe's Richard Ngarava in the final over. As expected, the youngster came under a lot of fire from people who believed he was not playing within the spirit of the game. However, he had a lot of backers as well, including former West Indian pacer Ian Bishop who famously said, "It is clearly within the rules for a reason. But we can't use it. How silly does that sound? Why: Because of an illogical convention?" 
  
 The World Cricket Committee of the MCC had reviewed the laws relating to Mankading in 2014 in the light of the Buttler incident and asserted that they did not need any alteration as then. "This is not a spirit of cricket issue. This is just law of the game issue," Andrew Strauss, the former England captain who was part of the committee, had said. 
 
 But the difference between the MCC Laws and the ICC Playing Conditions persisted. The MCC Law used to state that the run out attempt must come before the bowler reaches delivery stride, the ICC rule says it could come anytime before the bowler completes delivery swing. With the new Law, the MCC also addresses this ambiguity. "Extending the point at which the run out of the non-striker can be attempted to the instant at which the bowler would be expected to deliver the ball…. The extension of the timeframe for the run out has been in place for some time in the international game and the Law change is in line with this," the new law says.
 
 This is important as Mankading has been far fewer in domestic or amateur cricket where the stakes are much less compared to internationals. India's Murali Karthik came under a lot of criticism from purists when he dismissed batsmen in this fashion twice in county cricket and Ranji Trophy. But with MCC toeing the line of the ICC rules, it is a clear shout out to even first-class batsmen that you should not cross the line, unfairly. The less pretentious spirit of cricket arguments in Mankading, the more relieved would be the spirit of Mankad, a cricketer for the ages.
 
