PATNA: The state government on Sunday rolled out free daily regimen medicines for the treatment of tuberculosis (TB) patients in private hospital and clinics in Patna district under public-private partnership mode with the help of   (WHP), an NGO. The medicines will be distributed free among the TB patients.

 “Government hospitals cater to around 30-35% of TB patients. A large number patients visit private hospitals and clinics for their treatment and spend money and time. They even skip the doses prescribed in case of resource crunch. Under the new system, free drug will be provided for TB patients at private hospitals and clinics,” said Dr K N Sahai, state programme officer for TB.
 
 The Union government has also introduced daily dose of TB medicines at its centres from February 15 in Bihar, Kerala,  , Sikkim and Maharashtra. The same system will be followed even in private institutions, he added. 
 
 Dr Sahai said apart from government, a great onus of eradicating TB lies with the private clinics, hospitals and doctors. The rolling out of daily regimen fixed dose combination (FDC) anti-TB medicines will be administered as per the weight of a person. “It is a revolutionary step to reach out to the patients and ensure standardized treatment in the district. The dose will vary from six to eight months.”
 
 President of   said the disease has a huge socioeconomic impact and it affects the people in their most productive years of life. “The patients should come forward and get themselves treated from the communicable disease without any hesitation,” said Vidyarthi.
 
 WHP project head Dr Nita Jha said free daily regimen of FDC will be beneficial to the patients as there will be no financial burden on them. “We hope the patients will have no reason to skip the doses now,” Dr Jha said, adding that the availability of the medicines has been ensured at the chemist shops which are close to private hospital or a private practitioner so that the patients do not face problems in getting the doses. 
 
