MEERUT: An FIR has been lodged against Suresh Rana,   MLA from Thana Bhawan in west UP, after a video of his alleged hate speech vent viral last week. Rana, an accused in   riots, has been fielded from the seat again and is facing a tough fight from SP and BSP. In an interview with Rajiv Srivastava, Rana opened up on his cam Rana opened up on paigning and why closure of slaughterhouses and construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya are a must. Excerpts:

 
 The SP government implicated us in the riots because we are BJP MLAs. Despite state government accusing us of inciting the mob during the Muzaffarnagar riots, the high court struck down NSA against us. It was an administrative failure of the SP government and they booked us to divert the attention.
 
 
 We raised the issue of Kairana exodus. My point is that if I win, then goons and men harassing women would have a problem. Such people celebrate when those against them lose.
 
 
 Be it Kairana, Deoband, Moradabad, Muzaffarangar or  , curfew would be imposed for goons responsible for the deteriorating law and order.
 
 
 I am thankful to BJP chief Amit Shah (for including this in manifesto).Reason: Drinking water in entire west UP has become contaminated because of slaughterhouses. There is not a single village in west UP where one will not find a cancer patient. It is a big step both on health and cattle conservation fronts.
 
 
 A trade which leaves adverse effect on the health of crores of people is not a trade. After slaughterhouses and cattle theft, many farmers in west UP have lost their livelihood.
 
 
 The BJP manifesto doesn't talk about any religion. The pro-poor schemes of the   government have not been launched keeping in view any religion. Instead, they are aimed at the welfare of all poor and weaker sections of the society.
 
 
 There is already a Ram temple. It is only about making a grand temple. If crores of Indians have faith in Lord Ram then what's wrong in constructing a grand temple. Even the ancestors of majority of Indians are same.
 
 
 All major parties have joined hands to ensure defeat of Suresh Rana from Thana Bhawan. But, the faith of poor and sisters of the constituency would ensure that Rana wins the election comfortably. They have joined hands only be cause of people like us are in a position to tell the voters about pro-people schemes, be it Jandhan, Ujjwala etc, that have been launched by Modi government.
 
 
 The people of my constituency are show ing faith in me and with their blessings I will definitely win.
 
