In a development likely to intensfy the succession battle between family members of late Abhey Oswal, a business tycoon from Ludhiana and founder of Oswal Greentech Limited (OGTL) and Oswal Agro Mills (OAM); Anil Bhalla, the managing director of   and a long time ally of Abhey Oswal, has decided to challenge the status quo ordered by Delhi court on assets and shares held by late Oswal.

 The status quo was ordered by Delhi high court on February 8, on a petition filed by Oswal's son   against his mother Aruna Oswal, younger brother   and sister Shalu.
 
 Speaking to TOI over phone from Delhi, Bhalla who represents OGTL said, “We will challenge the decision once we receive the co py of court orders because several facts have been presented wrongfully by the complainant in his petition. The Tilak Marg property in Delhi is the property owned by OGTL and does not belong to late Abhey Oswal and share held by him has already been transferred to his wife Aruna Oswal since he nominated her to own all his personal shares in case of his death. As far as the personal bank accounts held by Abhey Oswal are concerned, Aruna was a nominee in them too so she is operating these accounts now, but no one has touched any bank account in which she was not a nominee,“ Bhalla said. He also added, “Whereas the question of property situated at Friends colony is concerned it was purchased against a loan taken from Os wal Agro Mill and we will file for recovery of this loan.“In his plea before the court, Pankaj Oswal has claimed that he was successor to his father's assets under Hindu succession act since he was made to wear the traditional pagdi (turban) in rasampagdi ceremony of Abhey Oswal conducted after his death.
 
 Bhalla however claimed that Pankaj had failed to dispose of the duties even during the last rites as a son and thus could not claim to be successor of his father.“After cremation of Abhey Oswal his “phool“ (mortal remains) were kept into the cremation ground and the receipt of collection of “Phool“ was on the name of Pankaj but he never turned up to collect them.When his father's mortal remains were immersed in Ganga in Haridwar he was missing. More shocking was the fact that he skipped attending the prayer meeting held in Ludhiana in which many people had come to pay their last respects to the legendary figure.When Pankaj has failed miserably to dispense the duties as a son how can merely putting a pagri make him Abhey Oswal's successor?“ Bhalla asked.
 
 Meanwhile sources in the family have disclosed to TOI that Aruna Oswal is also contemplating to move a plea challenging the status quo order of high court.Presently she is out of country and will return next week. She was appointed the  . since April 2, 2016 and Oswal Greentech Limited since April 15, 2016.
 
