BHOPAL:   of   is giving  . “For most of the time, he remains calm, confident and reacts normally. Suddenly, something happens to him and he says he want to die,” said a cop. Acutely aware of what it would mean if he harmed himself or fled, cops try their best to keep him cheerful. Realising any goof-up could cost them their job, Raipur police team officials said they want to hand him over to West Bengal police at the earliest.

 He has been allowed certain concessions like smoking, policemen say. One of the team members of the CG police, which brought him to Bhopal on Monday, said they allowed him to sit with them in a hotel for food on their way to Bhopal from Raipur, on Sunday night. “Udyan is used to a rich lifestyle. There are three air conditioners in his house,” is how a cop put it pointing towards his house.
 
 He was clad in a blue shirt over a T-shirt, grey trousers and boots. When taken inside the house, the triple murder accused was in handcuffs, but strangely his hands were freed. In a role reversal of sorts, he frisked the cops and moved towards the first floor of his house. 
 
 He took police inside his house without any resistance and gave cops what they wanted from the almirah. Cops recovered a stamp seal he kept inside a sofa set. Everything was video-recorded. There were a few matchboxes and cigarettes, which Udyan tried to pick from his house, but was stopped. 
 
 As for his   parked covered in the porch, CG police said they would seize it and leave it on the premises of   police station. His other car, now in a garage for repairs, was not seized. And as for impression about their being soft on Udyan and fulfilling his demands, police say he cooperates with them if they meet his demands, which are not unlawful. Some of his demands are turned down. Citing an example, cops said the accused was given daal chawal when he asked for “macchi chawal”. 
 
 A selfie with Udyan Das landed two policemen of Chhattisgarh in the soup. The picture, which went viral, drew flak from social media users with many asking police if Udyan was a celebrity for the department, sources said. The accused, too, did not disappoint them. He was seen smiling and posing for the selfie clicked inside a police vehicle when he was being brought to Bhopal.
 
 
