Madurai: The district administration has deployed 900 additional workers for dengue prevention drive in Madurai and has warned of disciplinary action against officials if they are found erring in their duty.

 Speaking to media persons here on Tuesday, collector K Veera Raghava Rao said the district had seen a surge in the number of cases in July and August, but it came down in September due to intensive prevention activities carried out. Fever surveillance was being done throughout the district and if positive dengue cases were reported, intensified prevention activities including door-to-door surveillance and source destruction was being carried out. The public health department is conducting special medical camps in places where fever cases were reported, he said. Village health nurses were continuously monitoring the areas under their care and mass cleaning activities are being carried out.
 
 The collector said that all government hospitals are well-equipped to tackle dengue and most of the recent deaths reported due to fever was because of late admission to government hospitals, after prior treatment in private hospitals. As many as 1,046 positive dengue cases were reported till September and all of them were cured. Out of the reported cases, 245 were reported in August and 167 in July. Private hospitals were also being monitored for fever cases. “Though it is the monsoon season, we are working in a systemic manner this month and are sure that we will bring the number of cases down,” he added.
 
 Meanwhile, a review meeting on prevention of dengue was held at the municipality office in Thirumangalam on Tuesday, in which minister R B Udayakumar participated, with the collector presiding over it. 
 
 Dengue awareness was given thrust in the entire district and public suffering from fever are being asked to have their blood tested as early as possible. Keeping the environment clean was also stressed. Later, the minister and officials visited the Thirumangalam government hospital.
 
 
