HYDERABAD: The   (UoH) campus was rocked by yet another face-off between the faculty and students, on Monday, after members of the academic council were forced to stay indoors for over three hours. 

  This, according to varsity sources, followed the council's move to reject the demands put forth by the students union during its 78th meet. The Madhapur police was eventually called in to bring the situation under control on campus. "Students were peacefully protesting till 5:30 pm. After that, they got agitated and tried to force their way into the meeting room and interrupt proceedings. We had to wrestle with them for over three hours and finally managed to send all the members out," said  , security officer, UoH. 
 
  Students, meanwhile, said they deliberately locked the members inside as they rejected all their demands, which included scrapping of 10 per cent fee hike proposed every alternate year, among the exhaustive list of other things. The students, who sat on protest outside the meeting room since morning, also took a dig at varsity's anti-student policies. Over 150 students participated in the protest with almost all unions, except members of the   (ABVP), supporting the cause. 
 
  "Not one of our demands have been accepted by the council. They have not only decided to implement the recommendations of the Roopanwal committee, but also agreed on not scrapping the development fee and foreign language fee. We, therefore, went ahead and locked them inside," said  , vice-president of the students union. 
 
  The students also lashed out at vice-chancellor,  , for allowing police to set foot inside the educational institution yet again on Monday. The last time the forces were called was in March 2016, after students held a protest against Podile's return to the campus as V-C. While police officials confirmed that they went to UoH on a requisition from the V-C, they clarified that neither was any student taken into preventive custodynor any kind of action initiated against them. 
 
  "Inspector, SHO and few other police went there as V-C made a requisition. Once the meeting concluded everyone left, except for some students who are waiting for their president to brief them," said  , DCP, Madhapur. Students also demanded a roll back of the proposal to hike the entrance examination fee by 50 per cent. 
 
