HYDERABAD: India's batting coach   has reason to be delighted for the manner in which the hosts have dominated all teams this season. The Indians crossed 500 in Jamaica and North South when they toured the West Indies and have continued in the same vein. Indore saw another 500 and the last three matches have seen them cross 600 -631 in Mumbai, 759 for seven decl in Chennai and here they posted 687 for six declared.

 
 
 
 Skipper  , too, has made it a habit to score double centuries and credited Bangar for transforming the Indian batsmen. Bangar was quick to return the compliment. "All the batsmen apply a lot of thought," he said after the third day's play in the one-off Test against Bangladesh on Saturday.
 
 And the quest for excellence continues, he said. "They put in a lot of effort. They want to excel and they want to breach their own benchmark. They are in quest of excellence. Our job is to give them pointers so that they remain on the right track. All credit to the batsmen for the way they prepare. Because of their mindset they are able to transform their ability into performances."
 
 A change in stance has helped, said Bangar. "A lot of batsmen have gone back to narrower stance purely because mobility is a crucial aspect in batting. We being Indians, using our feet has always been our strength. Sending a message to spinners that we are coming at you has always been the strength of Indian batting over the years. All batsmen have been able to do that and we have started getting results. There was a phase when a lot was made in 2014, when   got six wickets. A lot of questions were raised if Indians are not as good against spinners as they were in the earlier period. I don't believe that. There has been a lot of improvement in that aspect of batting as well."
 
 The bowlers have been outstanding too.   bowled his heart out, his ability to reverse standing out on a day when wickets were hard to come by. "All our three seamers were able to get reverse swing. But Umesh with his pace and the lengths he bowled was different. Umesh's length allows him to swing the new and old ball. He's worked a lot on his wrist positions and balance at the crease. Ever since the Delhi Test match against South Africa, you've seen him giving breakthroughs. It's seen as spinners do a bulk of wicket-taking, but Umesh, Bhuvi, Shami and Ishant have chipped in with crucial wickets. The reason for that many Test victories is not only the contribution of spinners, but the small contributions of the fast bowlers," Bangar said.
 
