PATNA: It is an exciting time for many parents as they prepare their kids for the first day of their school. As the new session is about to start, parents are leaving no stone unturned even if it means shelling out some extra money to meet the requirement of their kids.
 
  Sensing the market trend, stationary shops have stocked children’s favourite cartoon characters. School bags, water bottles, lunch boxes and stationary items with cartoon characters have flooded the markets in city. Angry Bird, Minions, Pokemon, Ben 10, Doraemon, Chhota Bheem and many more cartoon character accessories are flying off the shelves.
  
  A four-year boy named   clutching her mother’s hand said, “I want Angry Bird printed bag pack and colourful pencil set.” The boy got admission in Loyola High School.
  
  Pranjesh Kumar, a stationary store manager at Patna Market, said children coming here mostly ask for stuff they are familiar with through television. “It is the time of the year when kids asked for the colourful bags, bottle and tiffin boxes with cartoon characters. Most of the girls like to buy stationaries in pink, red and purple colour while boys prefer blue and grey shade items.”
  
  “Most parents look for stationaries with name slip in it. This time, we have decked up our store with the items like bags, lunch boxes, pencil boxes, pouches and water bottles in character design with name slips. The items range from Rs 200 to Rs 2,500,” said Girish Singh, owner of a stationary store on Boring Road.
  
  A resident of Bhattacharya Road, Priyanshu Raj, whose daughter got admission in Mary Ward Kindergarten, said since his daughter loves pink colour, he has bought school items of the same colour. “She is very excited to attend her first day at school on April 3. She is happy that her uniform is also pink and we have bought Barbie printed bags for her,” he said.
  
  With the excitement will also come nerves, as parents worry about whether their children will be able to settle in, make new friends and adapt to school life.
  
   , a teacher at  , said, “For first timers, including your child in the shopping trip will help ease the transition from preschool to big school. Take your child along to buy their first school uniform and other items. Make the event even more special by letting them choose their own lunch box and water bottle. Make sure your child opens the lunch box easily.”
  
  “Put your child’s name on everything. The school can only return lost items if they are labelled and your child will only recognise what’s theirs if their name is on it. To make students feel at ease, the school will hold a counselling session on March 25 and the school will begin from April 3. Counselling is the perfect time where parents, teachers and students can interact with each other,” said Sweta Singh, a teacher at St Xavier’s High School.
