GREATER NOIDA: The   and Jabar Singh have been   for decades. Each has a cowshed, where the cows are fed and cared for. The milk they give supports a part of their livelihood. So on Thursday, when word reached their families that Bhoop and Jabar had been beaten up on suspicion of smuggling cows, they got the shock of their lives.

 Jabar’s wife Kiran (25) said, “Keeping cows have been our family tradition. My husband used to work in the fields and also take care of the cow we have. He thought if we brought another cow, it can improve our earnings. We did not imagine this will happen instead.” Kiran said. The couple has a son Varun (3) and daughter Gauri (1). 
 
 Both families said they had voted for BJP in both the Parliament and assembly elections, believing in their promise of good governance and development. “Now when they are in power, it is their responsibility to maintain law and order. However, with each passing day, these anti-social elements are attacking innocent people. The government must rein in these elements,” said Tara Singh, Jabar’s father. “We reached the police station and informed them they are not cattle smugglers. It was only then that the police registered a case against the attackers,” he added.
 
 Maya Devi (45), Bhoop’s wife, was flummoxed at the turn of events. “He left with Jabar Singh after breakfast. In the afternoon we received a call from police that he has been beaten up by some people,” she told TOI on Fridayin her Sirsa Khadar house. The rest of the family was in Noida, where Bhoop and Jabar are being treated at the district hospital. 
 
 Bhoop and Maya have a daughter, Babita (18), and three sons, Jitendra (25), Raju (23) and Pradeep (15). Jitendra works as a driver while the younger children study in government schools. Besides selling milk and farming, Bhoop also work as a vegetable vendor. 
 
 Speaking to TOI, Dhirendra Singh, BJP MLA from Jewar, condemned the attack. “Whether Hindu or Muslims, no one has the right to take the law into their hands,” Singh said. “I will conduct a probe into the incident and the guilty will be punished. Allegations by the victims that they were attacked by local members of BJP will be verified. This wrong cannot be condoned. The UP CM’s directions are very clear on the issue of cow protection. Those terrorising innocent people will not be let off the hook and will be brought to book,” he added. 
 
 
