VADODARA: The board of governors of the prestigious Institute of Rural Management, Anand (IRMA) on Tuesday decided that IRMA’s director  , who is facing sexual harassment charges, will be asked to proceed on leave till the local complaints committee (LCC) of Anand submits its report, or till 100 days, whichever is earlier. 

 In a special meeting held on Tuesday, the board also decided that the contract of the female employee, who had registered the complaint against  , will be extended till the report is submitted or till 100 days whichever is earlier. The contract of the complainant was to expire on April 30. 
 
 Dr Rakesh Saxena will be the institute’s in-charge director during the period.
 
 Although the decision was taken unanimously, sources told TOI that board members were split on the issue of continuing Natarajan as director of the institute whose foundation was laid by Father of India’s White Revolution late Dr Verghese Kurien. 
 
 Two board members even argued in favour of Natarajan suggesting that he holds a “clean record” even during his stint as director of TA Pai Management Institute, Manipal. This, however, was strongly opposed by other members who questioned his role in the current episode. Sources also said that the faculty representatives and government nominees stuck to their stance on opposing his continuation. 
 
 IRMA chairman   admitted that there were divergent views during the board meeting. 
 
 “Each person is entitled to his or her view. But there comes a point when we have to take a collective decision and we have taken the best course of action available with us as of now,” he said, adding that the decision has been taken without prejudice to claims made by either parties and keeping in view the interest of IRMA as an institution. 
 
 “The board expressed its concern at the turn of events and decided that effective steps would be taken to prevent any case of sexual harassment in future. Also, additional institutional provisions or structures would be put in place to effectively deal with any such complaints,” IRMA said in a statement issued later in the day.
 
