PUNE: A densely populated civil area within a   may not warrant a presence in historical accounts, but the case is quite different at Charbawdi-Bhimpura slums in Pune Cantonment. 

 The area is a typical picture of rank Indian urban squalor and chaos honking cars, crowded roads, shops, some a century or more old, spilling onto the street, selling almost every kind of ware and even scraps. 
 
 Beyond the utter chaos are houses. Quite a lot of them are located below street level when approached from West Street (now known as   and GaffarbBeg Street) and are organized into multiple lanes. Paved open spaces are present just at the mouth of the lanes, which were laid out a little after the Cantonment was established by   engineers. However, that is where most of the urban organization ends.
 
 Inside the lanes, the houses are cramped together almost in the manner of a shanty town. A lot of the buildings are crumbling, some have been repaired beyond recognition and are belying their age, and a few others have been kept erect somehow.
 
 What is reflected from most of the structures is, however, the history of this precinct.
 
 The wealthy Parsis and Baghdadi Jews carved out spaces for commercial and residential use in the more austere parts of Cantonment. The less-fortunate ones, including daily wage labourers, domestic helps, and those who constructed the Cantonment brick-by-brick, settled in the slums.
 
 The houses were built mostly in the Indian style. A few of them were hastily put up, as temporary brick-and-mortar structures, which subsequently came to be used for decades. In some buildings, as many as three families live in a two-storied structure, with asbestos sheets and tarpaulin trying to make up for the damage by the elements.
 
 "My ancestors have lived in this locality for about 150 years and in this building (pointing to one) for about a hundred years. Yes, this building is old and needs repairs, but it's a well built one. I have not been required to do major repairs for most of my life," says  , who lives in one of the lanes in Bhimpura.
 
 Outside, some gentrification has happened over the years. There are new radio station and newspaper offices. A local education society has a number of schools and colleges. And beside those colleges, stands the reason why this nondescript area has found its place in history books the Babajan Dargah. 
 
 It is the spot where  , an Afghan woman educated in Islamic jurisprudence, lived and preached to her followers in the last thirty years of her life. Her followers were from this area, once described by a historian as "a picture of dirt, desolation and ugliness, a breeding spot of plague and pestilence and a regular haunt of dangerous riff-raffs by night". However, Babajan's arrival turned it into what it is today.
 
