BATESHWAR:   and  , two villages located opposite Bateshwar’s famous Shiva temples, are not far from the hometown of former PM   just across the   and 72 km from Agra. But they are miles away from development.

 Even after decades of independence and talk of all round development by political parties, the only mode of connectivity for these two villages, which are surrounded by the river, is two wooden boats. The villages had in the past boycotted elections on two occasions on this issue, but it failed to make any difference for residents. Every villager here between the ages of 15 and 75 years is a trained boatman as there are no dedicated persons to row the boats for them either.
 
 Residents complained that in case of emergency during the night or during monsoon, it is almost impossible to get any outside help. There are two primary schools but no health centres.
 
 Spread over 750 hectares, the villages have a combined population of 2,400, out of which 1,600 are registered in the voters list. Residents say everyone from former Agra MP   to sitting MLA Raja Mahendra Aridaman Singh have pledged support to them, but never did anything or took up the issue of building a bridge, either temporary or permanent, to span the 200 metres of the river.
 
 Ramvir Singh Bhadoria, gram pradhan for two consecutive terms, said, “Despite being so close to a major pilgrimage site, we are economically backward and have no prospects.” Given our peculiar geographical location, the two villages were initially a part of Mainpuri, then in Firozabad. We were made a part of Agra just two years ago. Electricity supply was started five years ago, although it is for not more than five to six hours a day.”
 
 A large number of youths have left the villages for big cities. Ahmedabad is a favourite, with dozens of villagers now working in mills and factories in the Gujarat city. 65-year-old village elder Omvati was quite furious at politicians who only visit them in election season. “They come here with folding hands and make tall claims of development, but after elections they soon forget us. Our only demand to them is that some sort of connectivity is provided.”
 
