VADODARA: The tug-of-war between  , over depositing   is all set to continue. While school management wants them to deposit the fees, parents are not ready to pay.

 On Friday, after scores of parents approached the Vadodara district education officer (DEO), the DEO M L Ratnu issued a notification directing all the schools to collect fees as capped by the Gujarat self-finance schools (Regulations of Fees Bill, 2017), recently passed by the Gujarat assembly. 
 
 The notification which the DEO office first issued, stated that schools affiliated to all education boards in the state should collect fees as per the Act – Rs 15,000 for primary schools, Rs 25,000 for secondary schools and Rs 27,000 for higher secondary level. 
 
 It also stated that if the   Committee approves fees which is excess to the capped amount, parents will submit the excess amount to the schools. 
 
 The DEO issued the notification after a group of parents from Navrachana School, Sama, Billabong High International School, Prince Ashokraje Gaekwad School, Nalanda International School, Sant Kabir and Cygnus World School made representations against the school managements. 
 
 Even as parents were making representations before the DEO, Congress leaders too reached the office urging DEO to take action against the school managements. 
 
 Later in the day, however, after the news spread that state education minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama had issued a release over the issue, the DEO office “postponed” the earlier notification issued by it. “All the schools have now been directed to collect fees of only three months and that too based on the fee structure that was prevalent last year. No school has been allowed to collect the hiked fees from parents,” Ratnu told TOI. 
 
 The issue is, however, not expected to die down soon. 
 
 While Congress leaders have decided to launch a stir to ensure that school managements do not impose the hiked fees, Manjalpur’s BJP MLA Yogesh Patel has decided to hold a ‘Shikshan Shuddi Yagna’ on Hanuman Jayanti on April 11 at Tarkeshwar Mahadev near Jubilee Baug. 
 
 Patel has appealed all parents of the city to join the ‘maha yagna’ against the “loot” started by school managements and to “purify the field of education” from what he calls “school mafia”. 
 
 
