SAIFAI (ETAWAH): Trying to come out of a prolonged intra-family feud for control over the party, the Yadav Pariwar presented a picture of unity on Sunday. Interacting with the media after casting their vote in their native village Saifai, they came out with perfectly synchronised soundbytes to dispel the notion of any fight within the family. 

 While the party patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav’s wife Sadhna Gupta said that Akhilesh and Prateek were equally dear to him, Prateek claimed that nobody can take UP on development path like his bhaiya, Akhilesh. On the other hand, Dimple and Sarla, wives of two men at the loggerheads recently -- CM   and his uncle Shivpal Yadav -- went together to vote, dismissing reports of differences between their husbands.
 
 “Akhilesh and Prateek are like my eyes. They are equally dear to me. It pains me when somebody calls Akhilesh my stepson,” Sadhna said in response to a question over allegations of her “step-motherly” treatment towards Akhilesh during the recent power struggle in the family. “People who level such allegations are worse than demons," she said. Mulayam’s second wife and Prateek’s mother, Sadhna, had managed to stay away from the media glare during the recent family feud despite allegations levelled by an Akhilesh loyalist MLC that she had orchestrated the entire political crisis in SP for control over the party.
 
 Her son Prateek, whose wife Aparna is an SP candidate from Cantonment seat in Lucknow, was equally vocal about his admiration for Akhilesh. “Today was the first time that I took the Agra Expressway route to reach Saifai and it was nothing less than a hallmark of development,” he said, lauding cheerfully: “Kaam Bolta Hai”. Apart from SP patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav, both Akhilesh and his wife Dimple had campaigned for Aparna and held public meetings.
 
 Shivpal’s wife Sarla, who too prefers to stay away from the media, dismissed reports of differences between her husband and Akhilesh. “There are no differences between them now. Whatever was there is now a thing of past,” she said talking to TOI. Recently both Shivpal and Akhilesh had exchanged barbs suggesting that all was not well between them – something which Akhilesh’s wife Dimple, too, dismissed emphatically: “You people say there are differences between the two and we have come together to vote,” she said.
 
 The Yadav clan had descended at Abhinav Vidyalaya polling station in Saifai to vote for Mulayam’s younger brother Shivpal Yadav who is the SP candidate from Jaswantnagar assembly seat that went to polls in the third phase of the elections on Sunday. Talking to the media after casting their vote, they unanimously rooted for Akhilesh as the next UP CM and expressed confidence that people will vote SP back to power.
 
 Visibly happy with the ground reports that his party was doing well in the elections, a beaming Mulayam -- who reached the polling station with wife Sadhna, their son Prateek’s wife Aparna Yadav along with Shivpal’s wife Sarla Yadav and her daughter-in-law Raj Lakshmi, apart from a host of other close relatives - announced that there was no stopping for SP now. “We will win over 300 seats in the elections and form the next government in UP,” he said. Though Sarla had accompanied Mulayam in the morning, later in the day she once again reached the polling station along with Dimple.
 
 The Yadav clan have been involved in a bitter battle for supremacy which eventually ended with Mulayam being replaced by Akhilesh as the SP national president with the help of his uncle and party general secretary Ram Gopal Yadav.
 
