LUCKNOW: Following the decision of Maharashtra government to induct khadi fabric compulsorily among government servants, Uttar Pradesh   is reconsidering the way it dresses up. An appeal made by Vinai Kumar Saxena, chairman of Khadi and Village Industries Commission through state government’s jansunwai portal, compelled DGP headquarters to check the viability of khadi uniforms.

 Polyester cotton terry cloth-based police uniforms are worn by about 2.50 lakh policemen in Uttar Pradesh and the department is considering to introduce the handspun yarn and are busy evaluating the consequences of the move these days.
 
 ADG law and order Anand Kumar said, “Suggestions of all zonal IGs have been sought in writing on the matter and we would forward the findings to the government. No decision has been taken as of now but the idea to use khadi uniforms is under consideration.” The officer added that while forwarding its plea to UP government, the national commission has highlighted how the decision to use khadi in Maharashtra generated 5 lakh jobs in the sector.
 
 Though there is not much price difference among the two dress materials, khadi is perceived to be costly to maintain in comparison to cotton or terry cloth. In fact, the diktat of donning   has not gone down very well with   either and the department was trying to convince the government to keep police department out of the purview of this order.
 
 In UP, during training, constables and sub-inspectors have to compulsorily wear khadi for two days at the training centers. A sub-inspector posted in Lucknow said, “Normally, lower rung policemen, who have to spend maximum time on the field prefer to go for   that costs between Rs 700 and Rs 1,500. While khadi uniform can be stitched for the same amount, its maintenance is not easy and would cost us a lot every month.”
 
 As fabric starch is required to ensure khadi uniform does not crumble or wrinkled, the constabulary is likely to oppose the move in UP. “Senior officials can afford to use khadi as they have staff deployed 24/7 to do their chores. At training academies too washermen are deployed to wash and iron clothes. Uniform will get wrinkled if it is not starched and that would cost a lot of money every month,” said a constable who was apprehensive about the move. Anand Kumar added that all the aspects were being examined.
 
