You know what’s passé? Matching earrings. In fashion’s eternal quest to be quirky, the staid old pair of   is the new battleground. This year, when Charlize Theron stepped on to the Oscars red carpet, more than her dress it was her earrings that got the proverbial “What you wearing” question. And rightfully so, the mismatched (yet not quite) Chopard baubles were hewn from the legendary Queen of Kalahari – a 342-carat piece of rough that was found in the Karowe Mine in Botswana. 

 The earrings cemented the mismatched trend. This season, Marni showcased mismatched geometric shapes and dangling jewels. Even Oscar de la Renta, Louis Vuitton, Nina Ricci have showcased the trend. And obviously the celeb set has embraced it, with Rihanna and Halle Berry to Miley Cyrus giving it their stamp of approval. Indeed, wearing a non-matching pair makes you stand out and not be the odd one out. From long and short lengths to studs mixed with drops, from golden earrings to silver chandbalis – the look is as quirky and inventive as you want it to be. 
 
 
 
 The ground rule: Choose similar metals or stones. Even unpairing has to have logic. But you can follow your heart like Zosia Mamet who mismatched a vintage pearl stud in one ear, and gold dagger in the other. Designer Chhavvi Aggarwal says, “Fashion is getting a little witty. Wear the trend carefully so it does not look tacky or accidental.” The trick is to stick to the same material and colour, but the size and design could be varied. Aggarwal suggests keeping the outfit simple and minimal to highlight the accessory. 
 
 
 
 Jewellery designer and blogger Naina Khanna says, “There’s a certain rebellion associated with this trend – a feeling that you are breaking the style rules. But even mismatching comes with rules.” Her rules? Don’t wear larger-than-life earrings in both your ears. If you want to try this trend, just stop matching and start mixing.
 
 
  
 Diane Kruger (left) skipped one earring while Charlize Theron wore the same length but different cuts
 
 
