After completing their first leg of shooting schedule in Mumbai, the team of Brendan Fraser-starrer ' ' is in Delhi. They have shot in locations like Tolstoy Marg, Chandni Chowk, Connaught Place and  . The cast, that includes  ,  ,  , and Neeraj Kabi (of 'Talvar' fame), will be in Delhi till the next week. The film's director,  , says that the film is based in Delhi and it was nowhere that he "could have got locations like Delhi in India."

 
  
  Director Rohit Batra shooting for the film at Delhi's Nigambodh Ghat
 
 
 
  We met the director while the team was shooting at Nigambodh Ghat on Wednesday, and he told us that the film is a thriller based on the land mafia in Delhi and Abhay will be playing a cop. "It is an ensemble cast and we do not really have a lead actor or actress, but Abhay is the protagonist of the movie. He plays a cop who is transferred from Lucknow to Delhi. Though I wanted Abhay's character to have the language and the culture that Lucknow is famous for, the story is very much based in Delhi. In terms of cinematography, Delhi offers some great locations," said Rohit.
 
  The director added, "The movie is all about the land mafia in Delhi, about the contractors who are hired by builders to kick people out of their homes. Abhay's character will not be of the kind of cop we usually see in Bollywood films. He is a very real character, and we chose him to play this role as he has that kind of vulnerability that a cop seems to have." 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  Brendan, who plays an American expat gunrunner in the film, was in Mumbai to do research and shoot for his part in June last year. Talking about 'The Mummy' actor's role, Rohit said, "In the film, Brendan plays an arms dealer who is living in India. Brendan is the hardest working guy I have ever met, he is someone who would research for days for his roles. He was open to coming to India and shoot and we are looking at his schedule to bring him to Delhi for a shoot."
 
 
  
  'Talvar' actor Neeraj Kabi shoots with Hollywood film 'The Field's team at Delhi's Nigambodh Ghat (BCCL/ Ranjit Kumar)
 
 
  
  The shoot in progress (BCCL/ Ranjit Kumar)
 
 
  
    is expected to join the team soon
 
 
 
