NEW DELHI: Union minister   on Tuesday conveyed an important message to   when she said India will issue a medical visa to an ailing man from   (PoK). That message is - 
  . 

 New Indian rules stipulate that Pakistanis applying for a medical visa to India must get a letter from their foreign affairs chief  . 
 
 Swaraj said though that these rules do not apply to the PoK resident. Why? Because PoK "is an integral part of India".
 
 Here's what the   tweeted in her usual direct and forthright manner:
 
  
  
 
 The 24-year-old PoK man has been diagnosed with a tumour in the liver and wishes to travel to New Delhi for treatment, said ANI. He wants a medical emergency visa to India. 
 
 It appears he will get that visa.
 
 The minister's salvo on Tuesday follows her blistering tweets from last week, when she slammed Aziz for not having "the courtesy even to acknowledge" her letter to him urging he grant a visa to Kulbhushan Jadhav's mother.
 
 Jadhav is the Indian national on death row in Pakistan.
 
  
  
  
  
 
 Swaraj as much as said that it's 
  . She assured Pakistanis that India is happy to grant medical visas and hoped Aziz "has consideration for the nationals of his country".
 
 The external affairs minister pointed to recently-changed rules that stipulate Pakistanis wanting a visa for urgent medical treatment must get a letter from Aziz. "But I assure Pakistan nationals seeking medical visa with a recommendation from Mr.Sartaj Aziz, we will issue the visa immediately," said Swaraj.
 
  
  
  
  
 The minister talked about how India too has a visa application pending "for an Indian national Mrs. Avantika Jadhav who wants to meet her son in Pakistan". It takes a beat to realise she's talking about the mother of 
  , for allegedly "spying".
 
 Swaraj said just like the letters Aziz must write for the medical visas, she, too wrote a "personal letter" to him for the grant of Avantika Jadhav's visa.
 
 "However, Mr. Aziz has not shown the courtesy even to acknowledge my letter," she said.
 
 
