HYDERABAD: After dashing the hopes of   chief minister   who wanted to get the number of Assembly constituencies in the state raised from the existing 175 to 225, the   is all set to give a similar treatment to Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao who too wants to increase the number of seats from 119 to 153.Faced with a massive influx of leaders from other political parties, both the TDP and TRS chiefs are under pressure to get the number of Assembly seats raised so that the new entrants too can be given party tickets in the 2019 polls. But the Congress wants to play spoilsport and oppose the bill related to the increase of seats if the NDA government tables it in the   in the ensuing monsoon session.

 Responding to the request made by AP and Telangana party wings, the Congress has decided not to support the amendment bill. The reason for doing so is that it is of the view that several promises listed in the AP Reorgani sation Act have remained unfulfilled by the NDA government. “In principle, the Congress will oppose the proposal to increase the Assembly seats as the NDA government failed to fulfil many promises made in the Act for the state. Some of the promises made for Telangana are setting up of a railway coach factory at Kazipet, steel factory at Bayyaram as well as a tribal university and industrial incentives, none of which have materialised so far. All these were included in the Act by the Congress with the intention of developing the state. The political exercise is not related to the welfare of the people but to benefit political defectors,“ Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee president Uttar Kumar Reddy told TOI.
 
 The Congress' latest decision is set to give a shocker to TRS chief   who has been trying to convince BJP leaders including Prime Minister Narendra Modi and national president   to move the amendment bill.He met the PM and other Union minsters to explain the need to increase the seats in Telangana. He deputed party MPs A Jitender Reddy and B Vinod to be in touch with all the departments concerned and to provide necessary information on the amendment. From the TRS side, the MPs even proposed a way out for the hike of seats by changing the nomenclature in the AP Reorganisation Act. Section 26 of the Act was proposed for amendment by the TRS MPs.
 
 “We did everything for the amendment bill and even suggested a change in the nomenclature in the Act. What is needed to make this happen is a political decision. In fact, the hike in the number of seats was also one promise made in the Act,“ B Vinod, TRS MP told TOI.
 
 The Congress decision is set to disturb the plans of KCR who needs to accommodate senior leaders who joined the TRS from the Congress and Telugu Desam Party. Though BJP has the majority in the Lok Sabha, it has to depend on other parties in the Rajya Sabha for passage of bills. Political analysts point out that with the opposition of YSRCP, Trinamul Congress and AIADMK to the proposed hike in the number of seats, the BJP may not venture to move the bill in the first place.
 
 The YSR Congress has already made its stand clear by submitting a memorandum to the President of India wherein it demanded disqualification of defected members who were lured with the proposed increase of Assembly seats. In the Rajya Sabha, the NDA has 77 seats while the Congress and its allies have 84 seats. With Trinamul, YSRCP and AIADMK, the Congress strength is set to cross 100-mark thus making it impossible to BJP to pass the amendment bill.
 
