By: U Sudhakar Reddy
 
 Is CPI (Maoist), the largest left-wing extremists (LWE) group in the country, sitting over huge   deposits in a large geographical area in  ? Recent findings of Hyderabad-based National Geophysical Research Institute ( ) has hinted at presence of goldbearing sulphide mineralisation in the   Craton of central India.
 
 An NGRI team from Hyderabad consisting of geophysists and senior scientists Dr Dewashish Kumar, M Satyanarayanan and geoscientist DV Subba Rao conducted studies in seven sites in two districts, Jashpur and Raigarh, which fall in the Bastar Craton.
 
 They confirmed that the quartzsulphide veins in the rocks at these sites yielded gold grains. These gold grains were recovered through gold panning and stream sediment sampling.
 
 According to them, the integrated study of geophysics and spectrograph opens up a new scope for exploration of metallic sulphide mineralisation, including concealed gold-sulphi de deposits. Based on the study findings, drilling tests can be conducted to assess the resource potential in the study area.
 
 While Raigarh is not in the list of LWE-affected districts, Jashpur has been listed by the home ministry in 2016 among the 106 affected districts in the country.Bastar Craton also covers the Maoist hotbed of Dandakaranya with Abhujmaad being the headquarters.
 
 Explaining the research paper, “Gold -Sulphide Mineralisation in Ultramafic-Mafic-Granite Complex of Jashpur, Bastar Craton, Central India: Evidences from Geophysical Studies“, published recently in `Geological Society of India' journal, lead author Dr Kumar said the study was based on sub-surface chargeability anomalies. “We have scanned the rocks to know the sub-surface scenario at a depth of 100-200 metres by using Electrical Resistivity Tomography.
 
 ERT is like MRI for brain scanning where almost the same principle is used to scan the rock for properties. We found levels of electrical current and potential changes in the sub-surface.This area has geological history of sulphide mineralisation and our study proved the same with spec trograph,“ said Dr Kumar.
 
 Interestingly, NGRI scientists during the field trips at one of the sites in Jashpur stumbled upon farmers who were using traditional mining technique called panning to extract gold from a stream snear a hill.
 
 “Farmers were panning gold in a small ditch at the slope of the hill where the course of water is seen.
 
 They showed us gold particles and a big sized gold nugget too. There is past history of rock-bearing gold minerals along with sulphide in the area.Our method has confirmed it.“
 
 
