PUNE: Driving is serious business, and when you are piloting something as big as a train with hundreds of passengers in it, personal household worries need to take a back-seat.

 With this ideology in mind, the Pune division of   has begun ‘Suraksha Samwad’, a programme aimed at creating awareness and initiating a dialogue among the family members of rail employees such as   and motor men so that the employees are free from domestic stress and hassles and can concentrate on their duties.
 
 A railway official told TOI that while the programme, which is being initiated by different railway divisions across the country, has begun in Pune, more such programmes across the division will also be organised. He added that a similar programme will be held at Miraj Junction soon. 
 
 “There are many railway employees especially loco pilots who work under pressure as many lives depend on them. While piloting a train which has hundreds of passengers at any given time, these men have to be fully alert all the time. And with incidents of alleged track sabotage and fractures taking place frequently nowadays, they need to be even more careful and vigilant. For this reason, the programme has been started by the railways,” the official said.
 
 The official added that to ensure the alertness of these men, one of the primary necessities was to make certain that they remained free of household tension.
 
 “On January 17, we organized one such event in Pune, which was attended by around 50 employees, including loco pilots and their families. The programme aims at holding a session with family members requesting them to try and keep the employees free from trivial household issues. If the minds of the employees are free from these things, their focus will be on the work designated to them and the men can be fully alert,” the official said.
 
 In the recent past, the railways, while witnessing some major train accidents, have also succeeded in averting many. On January 24, loco pilots of the   brought the train to a stop just 1km from a 15ft obstacle that was lying across the tracks near Diwa in Mumbai. Similarly, on January 22, two railway men carrying out a patrol along a railway track in the Samastipur district of Bihar found an attempted track sabotage, following which they alerted the authorities. 
 
 In the   released on Wednesday, railway security and safety was considered a top priority with the Centre allotting Rs 1 lakh crore for it.
 
 
