GHAZIABAD: A 12-year-old boy who was allegedly kidnapped from near his house in DLF Ankur Vihar of Ghaziabad on February 21, was found murdered on the Yamuna riverbed in Delhi on Sunday. The victim,   Singh Patel, nicknamed Babu, was a student of Class VII in MRL Senior Secondary School in Karawal Nagar, East Delhi.

 Police arrested the kidnapper, Babloo Tripathy (30). Tripathy , who has no previous criminal history , used to live with his wife and kids in a rented house next to Pratham's, in Block A of DLF Ankur Vihar in Loni, and sold mobile data-cards.
 
  (left) _used to live in a rented accommodation with his grandfather, Devdas Singh (60), father Sanjay (40) and a 9year-old sister who studies in Class III. On Sunday , his family members told TOI that Pratham's mother was estranged from Sanjay because of the latter's unemployment and drinking habit.
 
 According to the family, on February 21, Pratham had left home for the nearby Mahakali temple at 7.50pm.His grandfather, Devdas Singh (60), was travelling to Benares on the same evening in the Shiv Ganga Express. He received a call at around 10.30pm from a man who identified himself as Pratham's kidnapper and demanded a ransom of Rs 10 lakh, which was immediately negotiated to Rs 5 lakh.
 
 "Pratham was handed over the phone. He cried that a man had caught hold of him, and shouted "Dadu, dadu" when the phone was disconnected. I took a train back home from Kanpur at around 4am. As I neared Aligarh around noon of February 22, the kidnapper called to threaten that he would send the kid's dead body in a gunny bag if I didn't pay up. I promised to pay him after I reached ho me, around 2.30pm, but as ked for more time, as it was difficult to withdraw money from banks due to withdra wal restrictions. But he was adamant," said Devdas.
 
 Meanwhile, the victim's family had registered a missing complaint at the DLF police outpost, based on which Ghaziabad Police registered an FIR at Loni police station.
 
 On reaching home, Devdas began arranging for the money from friends and relatives, but the kidnapper did not call back over the next 36 hours. He next called in the afternoon of February 24, demanding the money by 4pm, but did not call back that day to disclose the rendezvous.
 
 On February 25, he called at 4.30pm and asked Devdas to come over immediately to Shastri Park near ISBT, Delhi. "He was calling from the same number. We negotiated down the amount to Rs 3 lakh," said Devdas, adding, "I went in an auto.When I reached Khajoori Khas, he called and asked me to walk over to Bhajanpura, and said he wouldn't release Pratham immediately . Through half-a-dozen calls in the next hour, he kept redirecting me to various nearby places. Finally, he asked me to return home."
 
 On February 26, the kidnapper called again at 4.45am and asked Devdas to walk over to an under-construction three-storied building, less than a kilometre from their house."When I reached the spot, he asked me to go to the terrace and drop the bag with cash at the back of the building. The staircase was locked. There were people sleeping on the pavement nearby . I was reluctant to enter.But the kidnapper called to say keys of the staircase were kept underneath a brick lying nearby . I unlocked it, went to the top, and dropped the bag.When he arrived to collect it, a team of cops who were hiding nearby nabbed him," added Devdas.
 
 The kidnapper was taken to DLF police outpost, where Devdas identified him as his neighbour Babloo Tripathy . At around 11.30am, news reached the police outpost that a boy's dead body had been discovered on the Yamuna floodplains in Sonia Vihar, Delhi. Devdas rushed there with cops to identify the body as Pratham's.
 
 According to police, Pratham's head was smashed with a blunt object and throat slit with a broken shard of a beer bottle. "The body was lying in a puddle. He was wearing a yellow shirt and denims when he left home. The denims were not on his body, but lying nearby ," said Devdas.
 
 The kidnapper told police he had abducted Pratham from near the temple. "Babloo told Pratham his father was waiting for him nearby. He believed Babloo and got up on his motorbike. On the way , Babloo gave him a glass of cane juice to drink, which was laced with bhang. He took Pratham to the floodplains and murdered him, " said deputy superintendent of police Srikant Prajapati, continuing, "It seems he had consumed alcohol before killing Pratham. Till now, he has not given us a satisfactory answer about why he needed money. He probably wanted to start a business or buy himself a vehicle. He sold data-cards for a commission and was not doing very well. He was familiar with the victim and his family . During questioning, he said he had committed the crime under directions of the victim's father, Sanjay , an angle we're investigating. Till now there's no proof of the a second person's involvement, though."
 
 Tripathi belongs to Varthana village in Auraiya district of UP . He had been living on rent in a house near the victim's for the past seven months. Police suspect he was aware Devdas, who retired as a locomotive driver with Indian Railways on January 31, 2017, had received Rs 10 lakh in retirement benefit.
 
 Police said Babloo has confessed to killing the child as he did not have a place to hide him. Police initially registered an FIR under Section 363A (kidnapping a minor), and added sections 302 (murder) and 201 (causing disappearance of evidence) to it. Disputing the family's claims, police said Tripathi had used various SIM cards to call Pratham's grandfather.His mobile phone has been taken into custody and call detail's are being examined.
 
