Do you often feel pain in your lower back, shoulders and neck? Your posture might be the reason. Due to our sedentary jobs, excessive use of gadgets and long working hours we have strained our spines by keeping it curved for a long time.   is a part of healthy lifestyle.

 A correct body posture also makes you look tall and confident. Ancient studies have shown that yoga can help to improve our posture. Yoga does this by strengthening the core and spine. Our spine holds up our body all day long. This leads to a strained and stressed back.
 
 Kavita Das Basak and Manisha Kohil from The Yoga Chakra show 7 yoga asanas which can improve your posture in no time.
 
 
 
  
  
 
  This asana helps to strengthen the spine.
 
 To do this asana stand tall with feet joined together. Raise your arms and then bring them down touching the ground parallel to your legs. Let your back stretch along with your arms.Then raise your head and look forward. Hold the position for 10-15 seconds and then release.
 
 
 
  
  
 
  Bhujagasana helps open the chest and shoulders and also strengthens the back.
 
 To do this asana lie flat on your stomach and place your hands on the side while ensuring that your toes are touching each other. Move your hands infront of you and place your palms on the floor. Now place your body’s weight on your palms and inhale and raise your head and trunk. You need to arch your neck backward like a cobra with a raised head. Press your hips, thighs, and feet to the floor. Hold the asana for about 15 to 30 seconds while breathing normally. Feel your stomach pressed against the floor.
 
 
 
 
  It fights slumpy-posture syndrome and stretches the back and helps in opening up the chest, and builds upper body strength. This posture also improves memory, concentration, hearing and eyesight.
 
 To do this asana come onto your fours. Form a table such that your back becomes the top of the table and your hands and legs become the legs of a table. Then try to lift your hips and straighten your knees and elbows forming V shape. Press your hands to the ground. Holding this pose take deep breaths and look towards your navel. Stay in the position for 15-20 seconds. Now exhale and return to the table position.
 
 
 
  
  
 
  This asana improves spinal flexibility and abdominal strength. Especially if you spend a lot of time sitting, this asana helps in preventing the back pain by moving the spine from rounded position to arched position. 
 
 To do this asana begin with your hands and knees on the floor. Make sure your knees are under your hips, and your wrists are under your shoulders. Inhale with your air filling in your stomach like a balloon. When you exhale, your stomach should deflate like a balloon. On the exhale, round your spine up towards the ceiling, and imagine you're pulling inside your belly towards your spine, engaging your abs and core area. Tuck your chin towards your chest, and let your neck release. This is your cat position. When you inhale next, arch your back and let your belly relax. Lift your head and tailbone up towards the sky. This should not put any pressure on your neck. This is the Cow position. Continue flowing back and forth from Cat Pose to Cow Pose, and connect your breath to each movement. Inhale for Cow Pose and exhale on Cat Pose.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 This asana elongates and allows you to open up and stretch your lower back. 
 
 To do this asana stand on your knees with your arms overhead and palms facing forward. Then slowly bend forward and try to touch the ground with your palms. Your head should be facing the floor. Stay here for 15-20 seconds and then release.
 
 
 
  
  
 
  Makes spine supple and increases the elasticity of the spine. Opens the chest and increases the oxygen supply to the lungs
 
 To do this asana sit up with the legs stretched out straight in front of you, keeping the feet together and the spine erect. Bend the left leg and place the heel of the left foot beside the right hip. Place your right toe beside your left hip. Your right leg will pass from under your left leg. Look towards your left with hands infront of you. Hold for 20 seconds and release. 
 
 
 
 Repeat the above asana for your left side. 
 
 
 
  
  
 Release and relax.
  
 
