CHENNAI: Pakkiriswamy  , a doyen of forensic science, who pieced together evidence that helped unravel the assassination of  , died at a private hospital here at 2.30 pm on Tuesday. He was 83. 

 Chandra Sekharan, hospitalised a month ago, died of age-related health problems, doctors said.
 
 The   was a proponent, and a pioneer in the country, of the skull-photo superimposition technique, a method he used effectively to identify one of the prime accused in the slaying of the former Prime Minister - the human bomb Thenmozhi Rajaratnam, also known as Dhanu.
 
 "It was a first-of-its-kind innovation in forensic sciences. He mastered the skill of matching photographs of skulls with those of the deceased. Till then, matching of fingerprints was the only means of identifying a body," said  , CBI chief investigating officer in the case, recalling the close association he had with Chandra Sekharan and how lip reading for criminal investigation was a hobby of the forensics expert.
 
 Chandra Sekharan brought out a voluminous forensic report, which the special court found to be valuable evidence in the case. In later years, he went on to write a book 'The First Human Bomb,' containing insights into the complicated investigation of the case. It was Chandra Sekharan who first said Rajiv's assassin was a human bomb.
 
 He was a busy professional even after retirement as many investigating agencies including the premier NIA sought his assistance frequently as a consultant. His word was often the last word on crime investigation for police officers; he seldom disappointed them.
 
 The man did not play by the rules at all times. "Chandra Sekharan stumbled upon the most vital piece of evidence - an exposed film roll - from the assassination scene, which identified the killers. Instead of handing it over to police, he gave it to a newspaper photographer first. But, finally, he was the one who preserved it and it proved to be valuable evidence," said Ragothaman.
 
 Prof K Ramakrishnan, who had worked as a junior to Chandra Sekharan for 23 years, said the former director of   Forensic Sciences department was keen on visiting crime scenes.
 
