PORVORIM :Chief minister Manohar Parrikar on Friday assured the House that the government will resolve all taxi-related issues by September 30. 

 The Travel and   Association of   (TTAG) had approached the court seeking direction to the government to install digital meters in taxis and the matter is sub judice, he said.
 
 Intervening in the discussion on the private member resolution moved by Curchorem MLA Nilesh Cabral that the House strongly recommended that the government install meters in all taxis in Goa forthwith, Parrikar said the government cannot discuss or give a reply on the issue as it is sub judice.
 
 The TTAG had sought directions to the government so that tourists, as well as locals, are not overcharged as the state is earning a bad name on account of the high-handedness of certain   operators.
 
 Parrikar said tourism in the state has grown over a period and that the government is targeting a tourist footfall of 12 million to the state. 
 
 “I promise the members of the House that, from September 1, I will start meeting stakeholders, including the members of the House, to resolve the issue. All 40 MLAs will be called for a series of meetings and by September 30 we will come out with a final solution,” he said, adding that taxi-related issues are critical for the state and for state tourism.
 
 After the assurance, the CM requested Cabral to withdraw the resolution and accordingly, the resolution was withdrawn. 
 
 Earlier speaking on the resolution, Cabral said 90% of the taxi operators are good and that only 4% of the taxi operators were spoiling the state’s name.
 
 The Curchorem MLA said taxi operators should charge fares as per the metre and that Goa is the only state charging fares on point-to-point basis. “We don’t want app-based taxi operators in the state,” he said, adding that since taxis overcharge, tourists were opting for two-wheelers. 
 
 Cabral said if tourism fails in the state, taxi operators will have to abandon their taxis like how the trucks had been abandoned after the mining ban.
 
