NEW DELHI: Deputy CM Manish   demanded that the Centre must compensate the state governments for the revenue losses due to  . He also said that the cash crisis had adversely impacted VAT collections. His reactions came at the pre-budget meeting with all states chaired by   finance minister Arun Jaitley on Wednesday. 

 He pointed out that because of demonetisation, value added tax had shown a negative growth in December 2016 as compared to the same period a year ago. “It will not be possible to achieve the revenue target in the current financial year and as a result, all developmental work being implemented by the government may suffer due to lack of resources,” Sisodia, who is in-charge of the finance department of the Delhi government, added.
 
 He also suggested withdrawal of service tax at the rate of 15%, which is applicable to 40% of the total revenue collected from air-conditioned bus service. Sisodia said that the Delhi government was making all efforts to promote public transport to mitigate the air pollution in the city and to offset the additional liability of service tax imposed by the Centre, about 6% of the fare of AC buses needed to be increased, which would discourage the common man to use the public transport. He further pointed out that the central excise duty of about 12.625% on fully built CNG buses may also be exempted by the Centre to reduce the cost of public transport.
 
 “The deputy CM pointed out that the government of India is giving only Rs 325 crore as a share of central taxes to Delhi, which has been stagnant for the past 15 years. Similarly, the local bodies are not getting any basic and performance grants as recommended by the 14th Central  . He raised the issue that the government of India treated Delhi as a Union territory for payment of share in central taxes and as a state when 100% central funding of centrally-sponsored schemes to UT comes into the picture,” a statement issued by the government said. 
 
 Sisodia revealed that the sub-group of chief ministers constituted by the Centre on rationalisation of the centrally-sponsored schemes had recommended 100% central funding for UTs since the devolution of finance commission grant is not applicable to such regions. “However, the Niti Aayog in its office memorandum issued in August 2016 stated that all   would be funded 100% by Centre in all UTs (without legislature) and for UTs (with legislature), the existing funding pattern will be followed,” the statement added.
 
