BENGALURU: Mango, the king of fruits, may not be ruling the market this summer. With Karnataka seeing one of the worst droughts in decades, this season could see a 25% fall in production of the much-loved fruit, say  . In fact, if temperature continues to soar for the next one month, production could be hit by a whopping 40%.

 “Mangoes this season could be smaller in size because of the weather condition, and costlier because of a fall in production,“ said Kadrigowda, managing director of  . While this year was expected to see a good yield, drought and patchy flowering in at least 16 mango-growing districts, including Bengaluru Rural, Ramanagara, Kolar, Chikkaballapura, Chitradurga, Davanagere, Dharwad, Haveri and Belagavi, indicate otherwise.   said while an output of 11 lakh tonnes was predicted earlier, actual production may not cross 7-8 lakh tonnes.
 
 With record number of flowers appearing at nearly 1.3 lakh hectares of mango orchards in the state, farmers and orchard owners had thought it'd be a bumper season, but now their hopes are fast dwindling. Majority of them grow alphonso because of its huge demand.
 
 Drive along Mysuru highway and the mango orchards of Ramanagara and you can see only russet-coloured leaves, a strong indication that all's not well. “Normally , the trees begin to flower in December and January and the fruits come soon after. But this year, the flowers appeared only in February,“ said R  , a mango grower in Ramanagara.
 
 Scientists at the  , which owns one of the largest orchards, blame it all on cli mate change. “We are seeing March temperatures in February . This has led to the fruits maturing early, even before reaching the proper size. Also, they'll be sunburnt, affecting their size and look. The fruits aren't getting enough water as the trees are consuming most of it during osmosis, resulting in a drop in yield,“ said C P Manjula, a scientist.
 
 Horticulture department officials are, however, hopeful that the situation might improve. An official said as mango is a dry-land crop which can survive without irrigation, the production may not take a severe hit. “It's still early to predict though,“ he added.
 
