NEW DELHI:   have paid low premium rates for the   and while the government outgo seems higher, this is a conscious decision by the central and state governments in the long-term interest of farmers to cover uncertainties in production, the government has said.

 Strongly rebutting claims of private studies that insurers, particularly private ones, have benefited from the scheme, the government released statistics to say that the Centre will take a greater financial burden to provide the benefit to farmers at very low rates, considering that agriculture in India continues to be monsoon dependent.
 
 The government has increased its resource allocation from Rs 3,000 crore in 2015-16 to Rs 9,000 crore in 2017-18. “The target is to cover at least 40% of gross crop area this year as against 30% last year and keep up the momentum year after year,” said an official.
 
 The government said it is also confident that with increased coverage, deployment of full complement of technology and robustness of crop-cutting experiments being intensively followed by states, the financial obligation will come down.
 
 “It would be wrong, rather preposterous, to suggest or allege that the scheme is benefiting private insurance companies. It must be noted that the scheme was implemented in the first year through 16 empanelled insurance companies, including five government companies, and premium rates were settled through a transparent bidding procedure and obviously the lowest bid won the award,” the government said.
 
 The claims are related to crop losses and in comparison, the payments were higher than the gross premium collected in the years 2014 and 2015, both drought years.
 
 The scheme addresses shortcomings of previous initiatives but is also simple and easy on farmers because they pay fixed, low rate of premium for all   in a particular season across the country. Premiums are as low as 2% for Kharif, 1.5% for Rabi and 5% for commercial horticultural and plantation crops.
 
 Further, the risk coverage has been enlarged and the insurance unit has also been reduced to village level to provide relief as per more realistic loss, said officials. The first year of implementation of the scheme witnessed record coverage of 574 lakh farmers and 581 lakh hectares of sown area.
 
 In Kharif 2016, a gross premium amount of Rs 16,675 crore was collected from all states and UTs across the country. This was primarily due to substantial increase in sum insured from Rs 1,15,000 crore in 2015-16 to Rs 2,04,000 crore in 2016-17 because of equating sum insured with cost of cultivation.
 
 Higher sum of insurance will result in more substantive payouts to farmers when they become eligible for claims during the season that turns out to be a bad one.
 
