BHUBANESWAR: Already the talk of town, the weekly Ekamra   this Sunday saw the participation of four overseas  . They seemed to be enjoying themselves immensely. And why not? With Odisha's famous   dance as a special treat for visitors this time, participants got a chance to glimpse the richness of culture that ads to the lure of the state like never before. 

 While the two tourists were from France and the USA, 16 others came from other states in the country. A three-year old child was also present and such is the draw of the   walk that the child too was mesmerized. 
 
 The very first event in the two kilometre long walk was a performance of Odissi by the students of Art Vision, a dance institute run by noted Chhow dance exponent Illeana Citaristi. 
 
 The 20 member team learnt all about the signature Odissi dance moves, Dasamahavidya and Mangalacharan. The dance drama lasted for an hour at the institute, which is built on the banks of the holy pond  , adjoining Lingaraj Temple. The Dasamahavidya is a dance routine that depicts 10 incarnations of Shakti: Kali, Tara, Sodoshi, Bhubaneswari, Chinnamasta, Vairavi, Dhumavati, Matangi, Bagalamukhi and Kamala. In Mangalacharan, the dance troupe performed Sthita Kamala, a dramatic dance derived from the 'Gitagovinda', which includes the ritual play of Krishna. 
 
 Citaristi, an Italy-born Odissi dancer runs the institution which is one of the stops in the walk.
 
 The walk started at 7 am from Mukteswar Temple and covered Parasurameswar, Swarnajaleswar, Kotitirtheswar, Bindusagar, Ananta Vasudev, Lingaraj, Chitrakarini, Suka-Sari Deula, Bindusagar Parikrama, Vaitaal Temple, Art Vision campus and the Ekamra Van. 
 
 The Ekamra Walk's sister weekly event, the Patha Utsav, at Janpath every Sunday, generated a lot of interest among children as an African belly dance was performed by Nadege Pricemou, from Guinea. The African story-telling session organized by city-based organization Bakul Foundation also attracted a huge crowd. The stories included folktales of former South African president Nelson Mandela. 
 
 As usual, cycling, skating and yoga ruled the Janpath on the occasion.
 
 
