LUCKNOW: Live streaming on Facebook of CM Akhilesh Yadav’s rallies, a ‘sentiment analysis’ tool to assess audience reactions, 10 youngsters back from the US with lessons from Hillary Clinton’s campaign and a war room led by four ‘UP Ke ladke’ — this is how SP is driving its electioneering in UP, seeking to outdo the BJP’s publicity machinery.
 
  One of five teams with multiple camera set-ups is always positioned at each of the CM’s rallies to provide the feed that is streamed live on Facebook, akin to what the BJP does for PM Modi’s speeches.
  
  Yadav is expected to address almost 300 rallies by March 6 evening. At the war room in Lucknow, four youngsters from the state are running the show — ex-BBC employee   is in charge, ‘Piku’ lyricist   pens campaign songs, Gozoop CEO   is the chief digital strategist and Fullbright fellow from Harvard University   handle research.
  
  “Our digital content has crossed over 500 crore impressions by the end of phase one. We reach more than 25 lakh people daily on WhatsApp. It is a positive and development-focussed campaign,” Naqvi said.
  
  The party is also aggressively pushing the ‘Kaam Bolta Hai’ theme on Instagram, YouTube, third-party websites and mobile applications. Some of these strategies have come from the US experience.
  
  Party spokesman Sharvendra Singh was among the 10 people who were in Ohio from September to November, volunteering with the Clinton campaign.
  
  “Calling up people, preparing data, media management,   campaigns and door-to-door campaigning — we did it all,” Singh said. Nidhi Yadav, SP candidate from Handia, and spokespersons Nasser Salim and Pankhuri Pathak were also part of the group that spent time in the US. Ashish’s team is focussed on pre-rally research and post-rally feedback, sentiment analysis via an online tool after each campaign and briefing party spokespersons.
  
  “After a CM rally is over, our workers speak to people present there to assess what rang a bell with the crowd. Lately, Dimple Yadav’s message to voters in Agra to vote for their ‘Akhilesh bhaiya’ and the CM’s words that he does ‘Kaam Ki Baat’ and not ‘Mann Ki Baat’ like the PM attracted huge traction. We send such daily reports to the CM,” Sharma told ET. The ‘sentiment analysis’ tool maps the response to fresh content released by the party.
  
  “This proprietary tool helps in predictive analysis and getting smarter,” Naqvi said. Ashish stresses the “campaign is positive, does not troll adverse opinion or criticise other parties on a personal level and is reflective of CM’s character.”
  
  Ashish, 36, hails from Jhansi and is the oldest member in the war room. He works pro-bono like Sharma, who is from Bulandshaher. This team coordinates with Congress strategist Prashant Kishor for the joint rallies, road shows and press meet. “We have many PKs,” an SP leader quipped. Manoj says his brief was to focus on the CM’s development work.
  
  “Kaam Bolta Hai is a fantastic punch line — something akin to the impact BJPs ‘Achhe Din’ line in 2014,” a senior SP leader said. Democratic Party advisor Gerald Austin had told the CM that voting patterns have changed and “people may well vote for a leader looking just at the rim of his eye,” a senior SP leader told ET. 
