PANAJI: The Goa government was to setup a state   with help from the central government as per the XIIth Five-Year Plan 2012-17. The Plan’s term ends this year, but there is no trace of any active proposal being pursued by Goa to set up a state open school for dropouts to complete schooling.

 The working group report on secondary and vocational education for the XIIth Five-Year Plan 2012-17 had stated, “At the beginning of the XIth Plan 10 states had initiated setting up of state open schools (SOS). NIOS spearheading the mission through the   of Open Schools (NCOS), provided technical and financial support to the states of Gujarat, Himachal Pradesh, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Assam facilitating the opening of SOS. Efforts have also been made to open SOS in the states of Goa, Jharkhand, Maharashtra, Orissa, Meghalaya, Manipur and Uttarakhand.”
 
 This working group meeting was attended by the then chairperson of Goa   and   Merwyn D’Souza. The board’s officials said that there is no proposal, to set up a open school, pending with them.
 
 As per the National Institute of Open Schooling (NIOS) website too, Goa does not feature in the list of states that either have or is in the process of setting up a state open school.
 
 The concept of state open schools was introduced as it was realized that NIOS through its centres alone cannot meet the entire demand for open schooling. There are around 13 NIOS centres operating from various educational institutions in Goa. Besides this, it was realized that there is too much regional diversity in terms of languages, etc, which makes it difficult for NIOS to cover all types of cases and so state open schools were conceived to meet the specific needs of students in their region.
 
 Open schooling allows school dropouts to complete their school certificate examinations later on in life.
 
 Goa sees a relatively high dropout due to reasons like an active tourism industry that provides for work opportunities with minimum qualifications. This makes it all the more important that the state offers facilities like state open school.
 
