HYDERABAD: The fate of hundreds of medical students hangs in the balance as the private medical colleges refuse to admit them in PG courses unless the fee structure issue is resolved. Consequently, about 60 percent of students who have secured seats in PG medical courses have not taken admission. 

 The high court stayed for four weeks the GO hiking fee for various courses and directed the colleges to admit the students as per the  . 
 
 According to varsity officials, of the 780 seats, about 470 students are yet to join in the colleges as private colleges failed to honour the seat allotments made by the state government.
 
 "We have received quite a few complaints from students saying that college managements are refusing to admit them stating that there is no consensus between government and colleges on fee structure. Some colleges went a step ahead and are trying to put the blame on us saying that university has asked them not to admit the students. 
 
 To clear the air, we have again issued a circular and placed it on our website asking colleges to admit the candidates after verifying all original certificates and taking tuition fee as directed by the high court," said B  , vice-chancellor,   ( ).
 
 When asked how many candidates have reported at the colleges, the VC said, "We wouldn't know the exact number until colleges send us a report, but till now, not even one student has joined in the private colleges. Apart from that, about 100 students who have secured seats in government colleges are yet to take admission."
 
 Meanwhile, providing some respite to students, the KNRUHS has extended the last date for joining PG medical and dental colleges up to May 19.
 
 Students, meanwhile, are still worried as private colleges are time and again refusing to admit them before the fee structure is finalized. "When I went to give my joining letter at a reputed private college, they did not even allow me inside the gate. Later, when we gave a complaint at local police station, they allowed me inside, but refused to admit me and take fee," said  , a PG medical aspirant. 
 
 On May 9, the Telangana government issued a GO revising the tuition fee for postgraduate medical and dental courses in private unaided and non-minority colleges. As per the revised order, the fee for PG clinical degree course under the convenor quota (category A) will now go up to 6.9 lakh per annum from 3.2 lakh. However, the students had moved the HC the very next day. 
 
