Cleared/Ali

 Coimbatore: The monsoon failure has begun to wreak havoc on prices of newly harvested kitchen essentials. While turmeric prices are showing signs of falling despite the harvest season setting in, prices of small and big onions have risen by 30% in the last two weeks. Farmers attribute the change in prices to the fall in quality of the turmeric yield and drop in the quantity of the small onion yield.
 
 Turmeric farmers in Erode say the acreage under full-fledged cultivation of the spice had fallen from 10,000 hectares in 2015-‘16 to less than 7,000 hectares in 2016 because of the complete failure of the southwest and northeast monsoons. The lack of rainfall and moisture led to the yield of the crop falling by almost 50%, says P K Deivasigamani, secretary of the Turmeric Farmers Association of India.
 
 The present situation would naturally create a short supply of turmeric in the market thereby fall in price of the spice. In Perundurai wholesale market, the price of turmeric on Tuesday fell from Rs 8,500 to Rs 8,000 per quintal. “Good quality turmeric coming in from Mysore is still selling at Rs 8,500 and Rs 8,700 a quintal in Erode market,” says general secretary of the Federation of All Trade and Industries’ Association, Erode, V K Rajamanickam. 
 
 “However, the prices are dropping in most markets because they are being flooded with stored turmeric harvested as long as two years ago. Their quality is not good,” he said.
 
 The turmeric harvest season in the western region, especially in Erode which is considered as one of the largest turmeric producing districts in the country, begins immediately post-Pongal. However, this year due to the drought that prevailed throughout 2016, the harvest was postponed by most farmers. 
 
 “There are a lot of farmers who despite the drought sowed turmeric in at least half their land. But they are unable to harvest it because the crop has not even matured and has even begun drying up. So they can’t cut it,” says Raja Manickam. “The yield is very low,” he adds.
 
 Agriculture marketing experts believe that the drop in cultivation and yield of turmeric in Erode will lead to the turmeric yield in Andhra Pradesh and Maharashtra setting the price trend for the spice. 
 
 “Usually the yield and prices in Erode set the trend for turmeric pricing across the country, but this year since the rain was better in Maharashtra and central India leading to their yield being better, they would become the bigger market players. Their produce will even start flowing into western region markets,” says Rajamanickam.
 
 On the other hand, shoppers saw the prices of both small and big onions go up by almost 30%. “The price of small onions, which were around Rs 18 to Rs 20/kg around 10 days ago at Raja Street vegetable market, went up to Rs 30 in Uzhavar Sandhais and all retail shops,” said a housewife in R S Puram, S Saraswathi. “The price of big onions too which were around Rs 15/kg went up to Rs 20 last week,” she said.
 
 Onion wholesalers say the prices went up because the supply had begun falling over the past 10 days or so. “Usually 3,000 sacks of small onion are unloaded at MGR Market every day, but the number has fallen to 2,000 sacks. So farmers have begun charging Rs 15 to Rs 18/ kg as the wholesale rate, so the prices have gone up in the retail market,” said D Sivaraj, a wholesaler at T K Market. 
 
 
