Chandigarh: The state consumer disputes redressal commission has asked Dara Estates Private Limited to refund Rs 22.51 lakh, along with 15% interest, and pay Rs 1.11 lakh compensation to a Mohali-based resident for failing to give timely possession of a flat.

 The complainant, Himanshu Sharma, a resident of Sector 69 had booked a 2 BHK flat at Chappar Chhiri village on the Kharar-Landran Road, Sector 116, Mohali district, for Rs 26.31 lakh. A flat buyer’s agreement, was executed on August 19, 2014, and Sharma paid the earnest money of Rs 3.13 lakh. He said that possession of the unit was to be delivered within 24 months from the date of application, i.e. October 14, 2015. But neither there was any progress in work at the site, nor an amount of Rs 5 per sq ft per day had been paid in case of delay in handing over the possession, despite repeated demands by the complainant.
 
 In their written reply, the realtors stated that the flat was ready for possession well within time and the complainant was informed accordingly but the latter himself delayed the possession on one pretext or the other. It was alleged that firstly he made the excuse that his wife was pregnant and secondly, he said that he would take possession after some time as the occupancy level of the building was less.
 
 They further alleged that when they requested Sharma to make the balance payment and get the sale deed registered and offered possession, he said that due to demonetization he could not make the payment. They said that, “Moreover, the complainant failed to make payments as per the agreed schedule, therefore, he was not entitled to possession within 24 months.” They further alleged that the complainant actually did not want to take possession of the flat due to the fact that the prices of real estate had gone down and he wanted to take refund.
 
 The forum after hearing both sides and after going through the records stated that the realtors had not produced any document on record to show the dates or amount of payments received from the complainant. It was also proved that Sharma had not delayed payments as the realtors had received the payments directly from the bank from where he had taken the loan. Rather, the forum held that the realtor delayed possession. They were then directed to refund the money with interest and pay Rs 1 lakh as compensation and Rs 11,000 as litigation cost.
 
 
