First it was the  , and now the world is discovering the benefits of yet another Indian   -the  . Once looked down upon as a poor man's food, the fruit, which is now being hailed as the new  , is making its way into everything from biryanis to burgers.

 From the unripe pods to seeds and the ripe fruit, all forms of the bumpy green fruit with a golden heart is making its way to Indian meals. Malayalis use it to make everything from vegetable dishes to payasams, for Bengalis, it is the “gaach patha“ or “mutton that grows on the tree“. In the West, the chewy pods are fast becoming a substitute for meat while, in India, people are using it to replace carbohydrates.
 
 Jackfruit is high in dietary fibre, is a rich source of vitamin C, a powerful antioxidant, and is packed with phytonutrients, which may reduce the risk of many cancers, says Meenakshi Bajaj, dietician, Tamil Nadu Government Multi Super Speciality Hospital.
 
 “Vitamin C helps in the absorption of iron,“ she says. The fruit is also a rich source of riboflavin, which helps to heal oral ulcers, and the Vitamin A in it prevents macular degeneration of the eye. “It is also an important source of magnesium so it further helps in the absorption of calcium, and fights osteoporosis.“ It is these health benefits that people abroad are discovering says Regi Mathew, mentor and director of Kappa Chakka Kandhari, a `neo'stalgic gourmet company. Praveen Anand, executive chef at ITC hotels, says it is being used extensively in their hotels. “In north India, we have kathal (jackfruit) ki biriyani, as well as kormas, and kebabs made of it,“ he says.
 
 The fruit is said to be among the top food trends of 2017. “This January, at the Fancy Food Show in the US, the star ingredient was jackfruit,“ says restaurateur M Mahadevan, adding that it is used as a meat replacer in restaurants in New York and San Francisco.“The young fruit is considered a good replace ment for pulled pork and is served on burgers along with caramelised onion chutney ,“ says Mahadevan. He is planning to stock jackfruit chips and jams in Hot Breads stores there.
 
 Entrepreneurs have been quick to spot the marketing potential. Keralite James Joseph gave up a flourishing career with Microsoft to launch Jackfruit365 in 2013. “I have always wondered why jackfruit doesn't feature on the menu in five-star hotels,“ says Joseph, adding that he realised it was because the fruit was `too sticky, smelly and seasonal'. So he came up with the idea of selling freeze-dried jackfruit.
 
 “The ripe fruit can be used to make pies and panna cotta, while the unripe pods can replace meat or tofu,“ says Joseph. After Jackfruit365 became a 100% diabetic diet company , they sell only unripe fruit online. “The dried, sliced jackfruit can also be powdered and the flour added to idli or dosa batter and phulkas,“ says Joseph.
 
 Studies have revealed consumption of unripe jackfruit can help fight high blood sugar level. Bajaj stresses that ripe pods are not good for diabetics. “The ripe fruit has a glycemic index (GI) of 63, while the unripe pod has a GI of only 52,“ she says.“Since it fills you up it helps cut down on rice and wheat.“
 
 
