NEW DELHI: The governing body of global   ( ) has on Monday issued a statement saying that it has been a victim of a  , which it believes has compromised athletes Therapeutic Use Exemption (TUE) applications stored on its servers.

 IAAF president   apologised to the athletes for the lapse and said: "Our first priority is to the athletes who have provided the IAAF with information that they believed would be secure and confidential. They have our sincerest apologies and our total commitment to continue to do everything in our power to remedy the situation and work with the world's best organisations to create as safe an environment as we can."
 
 The attack carried out by FANCY BEAR, also known as APT28, was detected during a proactive investigation carried out by Cyber Incident Response (CIR) firm,  , who were contacted by IAAF at the beginning of January to undertake a technical investigation across its systems.
 
 The presence of unauthorised remote access to the IAAF network by the attackers was noted on 21 February where meta data on athlete TUEs was collected from a file server and stored in a newly created file. It is not known if this information was subsequently stolen from the network, but it does give a strong indication of the attackers’ interest and intent, and shows they had access and means to obtain content from this file at will.
 
 For over the last month IAAF has consulted the UK National Cyber Security Centre (NCSC) and the Agence Monégasque de Sécurité Numérique (Monaco AMSN) and worked with Context to carry out a complex remediation across all systems and servers in order to remove the attackers' access to the network. This was carried out and completed over the weekend.
 
 IAAF have on Monday contacted athletes who have applied for TUEs since 2012 and provided with a dedicated email address to contact the governing body if they have any questions. For other concerns about the TUE applications, athletes can visit the official website - askiaaf.org, and submit the form and IAAF will respond their queries within 24 hours.
 
