Gurgaon: Dismissing allegations that gau rakshaks do nothing to protect   cows, instead fatally attack those transporting the animals, Bhani Ram Mangla, chairman of Haryana Gau Sewa Ayog, claimed arrangements are being made to shift stray cows to shelters by the next two months to free the roads.

 “It is absolutely wrong to say we don’t do anything about stray cows seen roaming on the streets. We are in the process of constructing several   shelters across the state, including ones in jail premises, so that all stray cows can be provided shelter. We have identified six jails where shelters will be built. The first jail to have a cow   is in Karnal,” Mangla told TOI.
 
 “The proposal to set up gaushalas in jails have already been approved by the Haryana government. The move will not only give a safe place for the cows, but also give inmates an opportunity to tend cows. The inmates can also earn money — anywhere between Rs 10-12 crore — by working in these gaushalas, which will be spent to construct these shelters in each jail,” he said.The other five jails in the district where these gaushalas will be set up are likely to be Gurgaon, Hisar, Yamunagar, Sirsa and Bhiwani.
 
 Talking about the recent Supreme Court order, asking five BJP-ruled states to explain why cow protection groups shouldn’t be banned, as they are accused of violence and even murder, Mangla said the Supreme Court should also look at the violence done against gau rakshaks. 
 
 “While I don’t want to comment on what the Supreme Court has to say, it should also look into instances in which our men have been attacked for trying to rescue cows. Around 5,000 stray cows are being slaughtered each month and we are only trying to protect them.” he said.
 
 The Gurgaon administration, too, held a meeting on what to do with stray cows last week. “There are directions from the state government ensure there are no stray cows anywhere, and the Panchayat department has asked us to constitute a committee at the gram panchayat-level, which will first find out how many stray cows there are, and then build shelters for them. The committee will also have the power to penalise owners who don’t care for their cows,” said Vinay Pratap Singh, deputy commissioner, Gurgaon. 
 
 
