BENGALURU: For long, Karnataka has been vehemently opposing constitution of the Cauvery Water Management Board (CWMB), which would lead to  , fearing it would lose autonomy over the river.

 Its worst fears may just come true, with the Supreme Court on Wednesday reserving its order on a batch of cross pet itions by Karnataka, Tamil Nadu,   challenging the 2007  . Tamil Nadu has been demanding that the Centre set up the board to end the decades old water-sharing dispute.
 
 Reasons for Karnataka's opposition are aplenty. “Once the board is formed, all the four Cauvery reservoirs in Karnataka will come under its control and the state will lose rights over water management,“ said a senior official of the state water resources department. The board will have control over Banasura Sagar (Kerala), Hemavathy, Harangi, Kabini and Krishnarajasagar (Karnataka) and Bhavanisagar, Amaravathy and Mettur (Tamil Nadu) reservoirs.
 
 The board's constitution may also make it difficult for Karnataka to construct new damscanals across the Cauvery, especially the proposed Mekedatu reservoir in Ramanagara district which aims at meeting Bengaluru's drinking water needs. While the detailed project report is ready and funds have been allotted, the state is awaiting environmental clearance.
 
 There are political reasons too. With suicides, protests and Tamil Nadu-bashing, the Cauvery dispute has become a politically charged issue in the Vokkalinga-dominated old Mysuru region. In 2002, then chief minister S M Krishna undertook a 100km padayatra from Bengaluru to Maddur, his home con stituency . Last year, chief minister Siddaramaiah too had a tough time after the Supreme Court ordered to release water to Tamil Nadu in phases.
 
 Stand-offs coupled with political posturing, and whipping up of Kannada versus Tamil sentiments, have helped parties score brownie points, and the government cannot afford to take a risk with assembly elections around the corner.
 
 According to the tribunal's award, Karnataka should release 192 tmcft of water to Tamil Nadu, but in a good year. The problem begins when Karnataka gets deficient rain.Sources said the Centre may prefer to be indecisive on the board, at least till the polls in Karnataka are over.
 
