MADURAI: With the water level in the  , protests demanding   have started in many parts of the city. However, city   say that there is sufficient water to tide over the crisis.

 Residents of Bethaniapuram,  , Jeeva Street and Gandhi Street of ward 21 resorted to road blocking on Saturday demanding regular supply of potable water. Water supply to the area had been erratic for the last 10 months and now consumers are getting water mixed with sewage, they said.
 
 Water level in the Vaigai dam touched 22.51 feet on Saturday with an inflow of 28 cusecs. The dam is discharging 40 cusecs of water to meet the drinking water needs of the city. The water level in the Periyar dam was 110.90 feet with an inflow of 200 cusecs and discharge of 200 cusecs. If the water level in the Vaigai dam touches 20 feet, the dead storage level, discharge would be stopped.
 
 There are 100 wards in the Madurai corporation, which are receiving water once in four days from nearly six months. But, residents complain that the supply is not consistent and the timings change regularly. Also, water supply is stopped about an hour before the scheduled time, they allege. K Annalakshmi from Villapuram said that people in the area have not been getting enough water for the past three months and have been force to buy it from private suppliers.
 
 Though the average water supply is 135lcpd (litres per day per person), the corporation, which is supplying 95 MLD of water per day for drinking, is only able to provide 60lcpd, which is enough to meet half of the requirement.
 
 Meanwhile, corporation commissioner Sandeep Nanduri said that the increase in the inflow to the Periyar dam, which has gone up from 100 cusecs to 200 cusecs in the last week, had boosted their hopes that they would be able to meet the drinking water needs till the end of March. “Only after that we would have to depend on the borewells for supply,” he told TOI.
 
 The city corporation has already conducted a hydrogeological survey and TWAD board officials have been consulted before laying borewells. “This time, they will be laid in the outskirts of the city, about five to ten kilometres away in places like Manalur, Thiruparankundram, Kochadai and Melakal where there is good recharge,” the commissioner said. “Places near tanks and the river bed have been identified for the purpose,” he added.
 
 The corporation has asked district collector K Veera Raghava Rao to address the issue of illegal tapping of water from the Vaigai dam in Theni district in co-ordination with his Theni counterpart N Venkatachalam. Illegal tapping leads to the reduction in the 40 cusecs of water released from the dam to meet the drinking water needs of the city. To check the trend, corporation officials will soon conduct a surprise inspection along the river.
 
