HYDERABAD: Despite special police teams scouring several states, culprits in some of the recent high-profile cases have so far managed to hoodwink the city police. 

 Special teams of Cyberabad police have gone to several states in search of the thieves who stole 3.5 kilo gold from city jeweller Abhishek Agarwal after diverting his attention by puncturing his car tyre at Kukatpally on April 16. With the help of CCTV camera footage, police found that three offenders, including a woman, had directly participated in the offence. They had used a Toyota Camry sedan with   registration plate.
 
 Based on the registration number particulars, cops went to Mumbai and met the first owner of the car. The owner told the police that he had sold the car a few years ago. The car changed several hands and landed in Bengaluru. The person from Bangalore, whom the cops identified as the latest owner of the vehicle, informed them that a Nigerian had purchased the sedan from him in April. Cops now suspect that the Nigerian could be operating the gang and a special team has been on the hunt for the suspect.
 
 In another case involving the suicide of Sandhya Singh, 30, a radio jockey at a local FM channel, police arrested her husband Major   on May 3. Vishal’s mother Asha Singh, a gynaecologist, and his sister Khushi alias Megha Rai, were named co-accused in the case. Police said the two had applied for anticipatory bail and a local court had rejected their pleas. 
 
 “Our teams have gone to Lucknow and Gorakhpur in search of the absconding accused, but they were not there. We are still searching for them,” assistant commissioner of police (ACP), Begumpet, S Ranga Rao said.
 
 On one hand, special teams of Kukatpally and Bolarum police have travelled to other states in search of the absconding accused and suspects, on the other hand Petbasheerabad police are still waiting for MLC Bhoopathi Reddy’s son Snehith Reddy and his friend  . The duo had allegedly tried to rape a beautician at their friend Preetham Reddy’s villa in Kompally.
 
 Preetham Reddy was arrested and remanded in judicial custody, but Snehith and Aarav are yet to be traced. Police said the absconding accused have not yet moved anticipatory bail petitions and their phones are switched off. “We are in search of them,” Petbasheerabad ACP A Srinivasa Rao said.
 
 To solve the horrific incident of unidentified persons hacking a man into eight pieces and burying them at a flat in Chintal, Jeedimetla police special teams have gone to Bihar and Khammam. Police suspect that the victim might not be any of the tenants as their movements were traced at different places after the commission of the offence.
 
