BHOPAL: Eight Special Armed Force (SAF) personnel, who were specially deployed to guard the   suspects’ barracks in   Central Jail, were sleeping when the terror accused broke out in the wee hours of October 31, 2016, the prisons department has said in its preliminary inquiry report.

 A departmental inquiry has been ordered against these personnel at their respective battalions, said sources. It comes as a major embarrassment for the administration and is likely to add to the controversy surrounding the jailbreak and the death of all eight fugitives in a hilltop ‘encounter’, which itself is under judicial probe. 
 
 The SIMI suspects had killed a guard and clambered over the boundary wall while SAF men snored just 50 metres away, say sources. The SAF men were positioned in two locations in such a manner that they would have a clear view of the terror suspects’ cells and prevent an escape. If the guards were awake and alert, the eight fugitives would have been caught in overlapping fields of gunfire, say sources. “But they were sleeping as it was the night of Diwali and the escape took place at between 3am and 4am,” said a source. 
 
 The spot where the SIMI undertrials climbed over the wall would have been in clear line of rifles from both SAF emplacements, said an official, adding that even a shout would have thwarted the escape and saved the state a massive controversy. SAF personnel are said to be better trained and armed than regular cops because they are expected to be deployed in insurgency-hit zones. 
 
 The SAF detachment in the jail included personnel of two battalions. According to the report submitted to SAF, they were assistant sub-inspector Dholi Singh and constables Makhan Singh, Deenbandhu and Rakesh Sahu of 7 Battalion and head constable Kanchedilal and constables Mukesh Chandra, Himanshu Tomar and Rajesh Chandra of 32 Battalion. 
 
 Director general (prisons) Sanjay Chaudhary said, “We have sent the preliminary inquiry report to the officials concerned for necessary action against the SAF personnel for dereliction of duty.” ADG-SAF, K N Tiwari, avoided a direct comment on the report, saying: “It is not possible at headquarters level to keep a track of all such inquiries. The departments concerned send their reports to the SP of the district, who in turn forwards it to the commandants.” 
 
 The commandant in-charge of 7 Battalion, Jayadevan A, said, “A departmental enquiry has been initiated against the eight personnel after receiving a preliminary enquiry report from local police. Our next course of action will be decided on receiving the departmental inquiry report.” B P Chandravanshi, the commandant of the 32 Battalion that is headquartered at Ujjain, could not be contacted as he was out of station. 
 
 Deputy commandant of 32 Battalion Jagdish Dawar said, “Our men were deployed at Bhopal Central Jail during the time of the escape of the inmates, but I don’t know if any action has been initiated against them.” 
 
