VADODARA: A new type of fair was held in the city on Sunday where the   bought items with the knowledge that their generosity was being used to  , and that too for only ten rupees!

 The project, named ‘Khushiyon in Kabat,’ encouraged people to donate clothes and slightly used items. As part of the project, for the past two weeks,   had been placed at various locations in the city. 
 
 Members of the   had then sorted through these items and filtered the ones damaged beyond repair and the ones that were only slightly used. It then fixed and decorated the selected items and made them presentable. At the pop-up event that took place on Sunday, each item was then bought by an overwhelming crowd for Rs 10 each!
 
 Minu Hirode, head of the project, said, “All proceeds from the sale will go towards the education of the 45 children we have pledged to educate.”
 
 The project was undertaken by the Shree Ananta Charitable Trust, a foundation begun by homemaker Sonal Amin five years ago. Amin, said, “The trust was started with the sole aim of providing for the city’s underprivileged children. So far we have provided for education of 45 children from various slums of Vadodara. “Khushiyon Ni Kabat” was a pleasant experience wherein we were able to invite the people of the city to give to our cause but at the same time, allowing them to take something back in the form of an item they needed.”
 
 The event saw a huge gathering ahead of schedule. “Earlier, we had only done publicity through word-of-mouth and social media. It was small scale. We hired a couple of rickshaws two days before the event to announce the event across various slums. But the crowd had gathered outside our store hours before the event. By the time our chief guest, Tejal Amin came to inaugurate the event, the size and excitement of the crowd had increased tenfold!” added Hirode.
 
 Shaunak Kothari, who headed the project with Hirode, said, “It was a magical experience to see the smiles on people’s faces since they knew they were giving to a good cause.”
 
 Amin said, “This is just the beginning. We want this to continue as much as possible. We plan to hold these pop-up stores at least three times a year. I hope the citizens of Vadodara will give to the ‘Kabat’ and fill it up again and again.”
 
