Voters in the rural belt defeated their urban counterparts as they trecorded 68% turnout election in the   and panchayat samiti elections on Tuesday. Garbad village (with 462 electors) in Malegaon taluka, however, boycotted elections. 

 The villagers boycotted the elections in the morning condemning the administration for not carrying out the developmental projects. 
 
 “The villagers said they boycotted the polls as no development works were carried out there. We tried to persuade them, but their decision was final and by the close of the polling time – 5.30 pm there was ‘Zero’ vote polled at the polling centre for the village 30 km away from the city,” returning officer Ajay More told TOI. 
 
 Shashikant Mangrule, deputy collector, said the elections throughout the district were peaceful and no untoward incident was reported across the day. 
 
 “The tentative percentage turned out to be 68 this year as against 62.20 in the last elections,” Mangrule said. 
 
 Nandgaon taluka recorded highest turnover at 75% till reports last came in, even as the final figures were yet to be declared. 
 
 This was followed by Kalwan taluka with 74% turnout and Dindori and Malegaon 72%, the officer said.
 
 At present, iNCP has the majority with 27 seats, followed by   17, Congress 14, BJP 4, MNS 3 and independents 5 in the   ZP that comprises 73 seats.
 
 The NCP and the Congress have entered into an alliance in 31 seats in the  . 
 
 The Shiv Sena and the BJP, for the first time in the Nashik ZP polls, are contesting separately. 
 
 In the meantime, the fate of 2321 candidates from Kolhapur, Sangli and Satara districts was sealed in the EVMs on Tuesday evening as the voters voted for Zilla Parishad and Panchayat Samitis in these districts. The voting was conducted for total 191 ZP and 382 panchayat samiti seats in  . The counting of votes will be done on February 23. The counting will start at 10 am on February 23 and by evening the results are likely to be declared. However the trends will be cleared by afternoon on the day of counting of votes.
 
