BHOPAL: A shocking revelation has been made by police in the murder case of Akansha Sharma. According to a police source   has revealed that he has killed his father and mother as well and had buried them down in his property premises at Raipur. He also made a fake death certificate. However police has to verify his statement and is sending a police team to investigate the matter.

 Das murdered her lover Akansha Sharma and buried her inside a cement block in house in the month of July.
 
 Policemen from Bhopal and Bankura in Bengal were digging into a grisly cement block ’ in a house in Saket Nagar on Thursday night, hoping to find the body of a young girl who was murdered and entombed there by her live-in partner. The accused, a Mercedes-driving 32-year-old, who claims to have made it to IIT-Delhi, stood quietly in a corner, watching the drill machines and hammers at work.
 
 Around 11pm, after three hours of digging, police got the first glimpse of a wooden box in which 28-year-old Akansha Sharma allegedly lies dead. Till midnight, the body hadn’t been recovered but police say the suspect, Udyan Das, has admitted to killing Akansha on December 27 last year and building a square marble block to hide the body. For the last five weeks, he slept beside the marble coffin.
  
 Akansha — Sweta to friends — hailed from Bankura town where her father works as the chief manager of a public sector bank. Police say she and Udyan met on Facebook eight months ago and their friendship turned into an affair. In June, she told her parents that she had got a job abroad but came over to Bhopal and started living with Udyan.
  
 People in the area knew them to be husband and wife. Virendra Mishra, CSP-Govind Pura, said, “She lived with Udyan at his home. Her parents got worried when she stopped calling them and went to Bankura police who tracked her cellphone to Bhopal.”
  
 A cop in Bankura told TOI that her parents filed a complaint on January 3. Investigators are trying to find out who helped him build the tomb.
  
 “Bengal police coordinated with us and on Thursday we arrested the accused from near his house. He admitted to the crime and said that he buried her inside a marble block in his bedroom,” said Mishra, adding that there are many unanswered questions. “The accused is misleading us. He seems to be in depression. He is a heavy drinker and his house is filled with thousands of cigarette butts. We are digging into the marble block and will find the body,” added Mishra.
  
 A sub-inspector said Udyan was upset at the phone calls Akansha was getting from a former boyfriend. “After an argument on December 27, Udyan strangled her,” he said. The murder has shocked the quiet neighbourhood, where roads get deserted by 9pm. On Thursday, however, there was a crowd outside the blue building till midnight. Ravindra Ringe, a next-door neighbour, said, “Udyan has been living here for 8-10 years. He rarely spoke with anybody. His father was a BHEL official and his mother retired as a DSP in Chhattisgarh eight years ago.”
  
 Udyan has told police that his father is dead and his mother lives in the USA. He claims to be a pass out of IIT-Delhi and owns a Mercedes and Honda City. “He is rich and claims to have businesses in United States but many things need to be cleared up,” said an investigator. Police suspect Udyan used to chat with Akansha’s parents, posing as her, but they could see through it and went to police.
 
