MUMBAI: If the   needed some help for stopping the   from winning their   game in their backyard, they were lucky to find it from field umpires CK Nandan and Nitin Menon.

 Under lights at a buzzing Wankhede, Nandan and Menon played their own respective roles in tilting the game in favour of Knight Riders. Nandan's horrible legbefore decision to send back   ­ when the ball had clearly taken a huge inside edge, and Menon's equally poor decision to send back Jos Butler ­ when the ball was clearly going down the leg side, put Mumbai Indians two steps back early in the chase.
 
 The two wickets ­ despite MI's good start chasing Knight Riders' 178-7 ­ never helped as the rest of the batsmen began wilting under the unexpected pressure. However, youngsters Nitish Rana and Hardik Pandya held their nerves during the final overs of the game to take Mumbai home by four wickets in stunning style.
 
 Rana (50, 29 balls, 5x4, 3x6), who turns out for Delhi in domestic cricket, accelerated just at the right time to bring Mumbai close to victory. Hardik (29, 11 balls, 3x4, 2x6) then put finishing touches as Kolkata's fielding crumbled.
 
 Earlier in the day, Manish Pandey, a reliable hand in the middle-order that he's proved to be for the Knight Riders, played a fine kncok to give substance to the innings.
 
 With Krunal Pandya's left-arm spin shaving away the Knights' top order ­ the visitors were 1074 at the end of 14 overs ­ Pandey scooped his way to a brilliant half-century and more, eventually helping his team settle for 178. Thanks to the 27-year-old Pandey, more easily remembered as the first Indian to score a century in the IPL in 2009, the Knights managed a massive 71 runs in the last six overs.
 
 The young Pandey, who has represented Mumbai Indians in the past, looked masterful in his approach. Except for the one occasion when he poked at a delivery from Pandya, drew a sharp edge and was dropped by Parthiv Patel behind the wickets, Pandey's unbeaten 81 off 47 balls and inclusive of five fours and five sixes was a superb attempt.
 
 As far as MI's attack was concerned,  's return to the squad certainly bolstered the hosts who dropped Tim Southee to accommodate the Sri Lankan.
 
 Harbhajan Singh, the bowler who caught everyone's attention after MI had decided to bench him in their opening game against Rising Supergiant Pune last week, came in for the injured Ambati Rayudu and was the only bowler who went wicketless for the hosts. However, where Harbhajan missed out on wickets, he made up for some tight spells and turned out to be the second-best in economy rates after the in-form Pandya.
 
 KKR's only replacement was bringing in the young seamer Ankit Rajpoot in place of leg spinner Piyush Chawla.
 
 
