Another food that has been found to have a beneficial effect on blood pressure is beetroot. The   is the taproot portion of the beet plant, are eaten boiled, roasted or raw, and either alone or combined with any salad vegetable. Beet root contain betaines which may function to reduce the concentration of homocysteine, a homolog of the naturally occurring amino acid cysteine. High circulating levels of homocysteine may be harmful to blood vessels.

 Nutrition Journal confirmed that beetroot juice lowers blood pressure in men when consumed as part of a normal diet in healthy adults. Beetroot is a rich source of dietary nitrate and a number of studies have investigated its potential for reducing blood pressure in humans. In one small placebo-controlled trial, one glass (250 milliliters or 8.5 ounces) of beetroot juice per day for one month reduced blood pressure in those diagnosed with hypertension by an average of 8mmHg systolic and 4mmHg diastolic pressure. However, within two weeks of stopping the juice, their blood pressure returned to their previous levels, so you'd have to keep drinking it consistently. A better strategy would be to incorporate a glass of beetroot juice as a short-term solution while you're implementing other dietary changes and exercise.
 
 It's already known that nitric oxide, a gas produced naturally by the body and carried in the blood, tells your blood vessels to expand, so lowering blood pressure. That's why beetroot in particular is so good for blood pressure - the body converts the nitrites in this vegetable into nitric oxide. Until a few years ago, no one knew that blood cells even carried nitric oxide. According to research at the Case Western Reserve University School of Medicine, Cleveland in the U.S.A., nitric oxide plays a vital role in ensuring cells get the oxygen they need. Oxygen carried in blood cells can't be delivered into the body's cells unless it comes with nitric oxide. it could also mean that replenishing our nitric oxide levels - by eating more vegetable such as beetroot, or exercising more, could help to prevent diseases.
 
 Beetroot is the best nutrient supplier which help to boost your immune system and can produce new blood cells. It’s a good source of iron & folate. It can help to lower blood pressure. It also helps in controlling  , improve liver function & boost hemoglobin level. Try to incorporate more beetroot in your diet. This red vegetable is a good friend of our heart!
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
