AMRITSAR: In a time and age where everything is available on your fingertips, Amritsar recently got a   for treating patients addicted to the Internet. But that’s not the end of it. The two biggest causes for people coming to the centre located at a private hospital are: one, porn; and two, social media.

 According to doctors at the centre, patients range from   to middle-aged men. In case of married men, help was sought after wives started to complain that the men had developed behavioural disorders and “impotency”. Of course, it later turned out that the men were spending more time on their phones than with their wives. “There are 12 patients at our centre right now. A majority of them are young girls being treated for behavioural disorders,” said psychiatrist J P S Bhatia, who runs the centre, while talking to TOI on Wednesday.
 
 Stating that benefits of social networking were far less than its harmful effects, Dr Bhatia said parents approached them by saying that there had been a sudden fall in the grades of their children, while wives complained about their husbands neglecting them. “Among youth, the symptoms of screen addiction include unconsciously looking at a mobile phone, hand movement towards phone, relationship problems with immediate family members and living in a dream-like state,” he said.
 
 Citing an example, Dr Bhatia said the parents of one of his patients reported that their son spent hours in the bathroom. He claimed that among erectile dysfunction was a major symptom of porn addiction. “When a husband and wife are using cellphones, they feel they are being neglected. This emptiness leads to marital disharmony,” he added.
 
 This, however, is not an isolated case in a country where former porn star Sunny Leone had become an overnight hit in the film industry. Recently released government data had disclosed that Amritsar was the top city in India for sharing content containing sexual abuse. According to the data, Amritsar took the top place with more than 4.3 lakh “files of interest” — a code for child porn — shared between July 1, 2016, and January 15, 2017. Delhi was second, while Lucknow was third.
 
 The mother of a 15-year-old girl who is being treated for porn addiction at the centre said she had been worried about her daughter spending three-four hours in the bathroom. “When I clandestinely checked her mobile phone, it was full of pornographic content and more than 100 male friends on Facebook; that was alarming,” she said.
 
 Agreeing to the addiction caused by mobile phones and excessive use of internet, Guru Nanak Dev Medical Hospital medical superintendent Dr Ram Saroop said over-dependence on mobile phones was causing frustration among youth and related disorders.
 
 
 
 
 Talking about the treatment, Dr Bhatia said they gave counselling in life skills and advised patient to inculcate healthier habits. “We also tell our middle-aged patients to realize the importance of real relations over the fantasy world of pornography,” he said.
 
 
 
 
 He suggested developing role models at the school level as the first measure to check the impending threat of screen addiction. “Students follow their teachers. If they will keep their mobiles away, students will follow suit,” he said.
 
