BENGALURU: The   (IISc) has added another feather to its glorious cap by bagging the first spot in the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) for the second time. What makes IISc the best? A tradition of excellence, says  , director of the prestigious institution.

 Research in IISc has advanced from publications to practical applications, and now the focus is on improving the institution's international ranking and presence, Kumar told TOI in an interview. Excerpts:
 
 
 
 
 It isn't the effort of the past one or two years that has paid off. Instead, it is a long tradition of excellence that not just me but many directors before me have worked towards.About 60-70% of our student population is pursuing PhD and 300 of these scholars are graduating every year. Whether it is about selecting highly qualified faculty members or students or showcasing good practices in teaching, it takes many decades of building quality to make it to the top.
 
 
 
 
 Over 30-40 years, the institution has been working on a number of projects, reaching out to people in rural areas in and less priviledged population. Be it construction technology, converting waste to fuel for households or even creating the stabilized mudbricks, which are made of soil and don't require firing in a brick kiln, our researchers have transferred technology to rural areas. Students and faculty members at our campus at in Challakere, train people to use these technologies.
 
 Researchers at the Challakere campus have also been training class 10 and 11science teachers on how to teach the subject more effectively. About 8,000 teachers in surrounding areas have already been trained.
 
 
 
 
 In 2010, we established the Center for   (CeNSE) at IISc, which is perhaps the only such centre in India apart from the one at   Bombay. A centre of global standards, the centre conducts a number of outreach programmes with colleges around the country.
 
 There are many other departments which have contributed to strengthening research and applications - materials science and engineering, climate science, computer science, condensed matter physics and basic biological science. In computer science, IISc is ranked 71 in the world by Times  .
 
 
 
 
 The transition began 15-20 years ago when the institution started to shift its focus from publications to working with industries on practical applications of research. We have been encouraging scientists and students to apply their research outside the walls of IISc. The startup environment has inspired many of our faculty members too, some of whom are going out to start companies, and then returning for academic pursuits.
 
 You said IISc needs to do better in international rankings as well...
 
 Our international ranking may be the highest in the country but much more needs to be done on that front. A substantial improvement in infrastructure is required. The institution also needs to work on many global aspects. Our way of dealing with students and faculty who come here from abroad needs to change.
 
 When it comes to strengthening our global presence, resources matter the most. The institution requires more funding for our students and staff to travel outside or host people from overseas. An overall infrastructure and resource upgrade could help maintain our standing nationally, while improving it internationally.
 
