KOLKATA: A leading city gynaecologist who wanted to find out about Garbh Samskar was on Sunday denied permission to attend the workshop by the event's organisers.

 The two-day event ended at Ekal Bhawan on Harish Mukherjee Road on Sunday .
 
 Gauri Kumra identified herself as a doctor and repeatedly requested the organizer, Arogya Bharati -a wing of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) -to enrol her for the workshop because she wanted to find out how Garbh Samskar could benefit women. She, however, was told she could not be given permission to attend.
 
 “The news that a   was on in the city intrigued me and I wanted to be part of it,“ said Kumra. “Since I am a gynaecologist, I thought it was my moral duty to find out the scientific basis of the workshop. I repeatedly told the organisers that I wanted to find out whether their process could be beneficial for my pregnant patients.They , however, said they could not allow me. I asked them why , but they gave no explanation,“ she added.
 
 Calcutta high court, responding to a PIL filed by the   Commission for the Protection of Child Rights, had asked the organisers not to hold any training or treatment sessions at the workshop, but to restrict it to only a lecture by the ayurveda specialist whom Arogya Bharati had flown in from Jamnagar, Gujarat. The high court had also directed the organisers not to take any registration fee from participants. The chairperson of the commission,   , tried to attend the workshop on Saturday but was denied entry , after which she filed an FIR against the organisers.
 
 A total of 62 couples attended the workshop, which started at 8am on Sunday and went on till 5pm. A large number of these participants are parents of a child, but said they wanted another using the measures prescribed by Garbh Samskar. “It is an ancient science that we are trying to revive. There is nothing to hide... we have our findings and claims in the public domain and have conducted workshops across the country. Since it is happening for the first time in Kolkata, people are so intrigued. But such debate is good; it helps spread knowledge,“ said Hitesh Jani, chairperson of the Garbha Vigyan Anusandhan Kendra, an independent research body in Jamnagar, Gujarat, that promotes Garbh Samskar. Karishma Narvani, an ayurveda expert from this centre, was in the city to conduct the workshop.
 
 “We are firm in our claim that Garbh Sanskar helps give birth to babies of higher consciousness and IQ who grow up to be geniuses. We follow pre-conceptional and postnatal processes that make this possible. There are documents that run into 67 pages to show the difference between babies born outside Garbh Samskar and those born within its ambit. We have case studies to prove this,“ Jani said.
 
