MUMBAI: In a span of seven months, life has come a full circle for  , one of the finest raiders in Indian kabaddi today. From languishing in jail on charges of harassing his wife Lalita to a point where she was forced to commit suicide last October,   was the second most expensive buy at the   auctions last Monday when Bengaluru   managed to buy him for a whopping Rs 81 lakh.

 "It was unbelievable," the 27-year-old told TOI on Thursday. "In the last four seasons of Pro Kabaddi, Services players were not part of the auctions. It was a mind-boggling experience to know that I was worth that much," said the navy man, who is posted in Mumbai. "I jumped from my sofa. It is a huge sum which can change my life."
 
 Rohit was arrested in Mumbai on October 22 last year after his wife Lalita had allegedly committed suicide five days ago at her parents' house in  . She had even blamed Rohit and his parents in her suicide note as well as the audio and video clips in which she accused her in-laws for harassing her over minor issues. In those clips, she has alleged that Rohit had asked her to go away from his life. The Court granted him bail as it felt the suicide note and voice message of the deceased were yet to be verified and it would take a considerable amount of time.
 
 "I don't want to talk about it. Nobody should go through hell like this. My story is out in the open and there is no point discussing it when the case is sub-judice," said Rohit, who was granted bail by a Delhi court in December.
 
 "Now I am looking at the upcoming Season 5 of Pro Kabaddi and I want to justify the faith shown in me by Bengaluru Bulls," said Rohit, who had suffered injuries to his knee to his lower body during the last season where he top-scored for Bulls in 12 out of 14 matches.
 
 Uday Sihn Wala, the owner of Bulls, said for them the personal life of Rohit doesn't matter. "He is one of the top three raiders in the country and that is what matter to us," Wala said. Rohit had impressed the Bulls owners last with his commitment. "The fact that he gave his 100 % to the team despite being injured is important. We value that. He also got along well with youngsters in the team and made efforts to guide them. This is what we need," he added.
 
 Wala said he will allow Rohit to attend court proceedings as and when needed. "Let the law take its own course. If there is a hearing in court, we will not come in the way."
 
