HYDERABAD: After threatening to bulldoze auto majors if they fail to churn out cars driven by alternative fuels by 2030, Union road transport and highways minister   seems to have softened his stand and tried to mollify them.
“We are not against automobile industry , but the government is concerned about high levels of vehicular pollution.We have only asked the automobile industry to venture into electric vehicles segment,“   said on the sidelines of the `ISB Leadership Summit-2017' here on Sunday .
 Replying to queries at the Summit, organised by the Indian School of Business, Gadkari said: “We export about Rs 1.5 lakh crore-worth automobiles.The auto industry has the hig hest employment potential. I told the auto makers to continue exports. However, pollution is a big concern. You give priority to indigenous technology .“ Union minister for road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari on Sunday spoke about alternate fuel to curb pollution while softening his stand on the automobile industry .
 
 The minister also went on to say that work on development of flexi engine was in progress and soon they would come out with details. “We want engines to run on ethanol-blended petrol or bio alternate fuel,“ he said.
 
 Replying to a question on an all electric-car market by 2030, he said, “Now, India is a coal and power surplus country . It is very cheap. People will also benefit. Give priority to this. You venture into public transport sector.“
 
 On arresting migration of rural populace to urban hubs like Hyderabad, Mumbai, Bengaluru, Nitin Gadkari said the government was focusing on improving and development of agriculture and agri-processing sector, which could can create jobs in rural areas. “Our target is to take agriculture growth up to 20% so that we can improve employment potential in rural areas and stop migration to the cities,“ he added.
 
 On bringing down death toll in accidents on the highways, the Union minister sa id though the accident rate has come down in the last three years, he admitted that more needs to be done and his target was to bring it down by 50% by the time he completes his five-year term.
 
 Stating that his ministry was earlier laying 2 km of road per day , on an average, he said today it has gone up to 28 kilometres.
 
 “When I took over as the minister of road transport and highways, about 5 lakh people used to die in road accidents every year. We have identified over 786 black spots. We have issued orders to set up district-level committees to monitor road accidents,“ Gadkari said, adding, the target was to reduce road accidents by 50%.
 
 Without elaborating much on the way the districtlevel committee would function, the minister said it would be headed by the local MP, while the collector will be its secretary and MLAs members. “The committee will go to the spot and verify whenever and wherever an accident occurs,“ he added.
 
 Earlier, delivering the closing address at the 15th edition of the   Leadership Summit on `Propelling India forward', the Union minister dwelt on the qualities essential for future leaders.
 
 He shared important life lessons with students and ur ged them to live their lives to the fullest. Gadkari kept the audience captivated with a generous dose of humour throughout his address.
 
 He had the audience in splits with his remark, “Where there is a will, there is a way . But when there is no will, there are only surveys, committees, discourses and discussions.“
 
 Calling out to future leaders to be good judges of people without getting swayed by perceptions, Gadkari emphasized the importance of finding the “appropriate person for the appropriate job“ and on building teams with people who offer constructive inputs and criticisms.
 
