Pune: When Maharashtra state board students currently studying in standard XI (science) give their   examinations in 2019, it will be based on a national framework as laid down by the Council of Boards of School Education (COBSE) in India.

 The question paper pattern for physics, chemistry, biology and mathematics has been changed so that students fare better in entrance exams like the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) and Joint Entrance Exam (JEE). However, there will be no change in the present curricula.
 
 “The entire question paper format has been changed so that our students perform well in the national entrance tests. The question paper will be based on the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) pattern,” Gangadhar Mhamane, chairman, Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education, said on Monday. 
 
 Around 20% of the questions will come under the ‘difficult’ category in all four subjects and around 50% will be in the ‘average’ category. 
 
 The question papers give weightage to objectives with about 30% testing the students’ knowledge about the subject, about 40% testing their understanding of the subject and the remaining testing their skill and ability to apply the concepts to solve questions.
 
 The difficulty level of the questions may go up, Mhamane said. “Currently, we give a lot of options to students such as answering any three out of five questions. Now, the options may be less which will automatically increase the difficulty level. More than the difficulty level, it is the thoroughness of the students’ preparation that will matter. We want to ensure that they are prepared just like the central board students are for national-level exams like NEET and JEE,” he added.
 
 After the board of studies received the framework of questions from COBSE, a detailed report on how it can be adapted for the HSC syllabus and how each topic can be given weightage was submitted to the state education board.
 
 “This report, after being scrutinized by the expert committee within the state board, was sent to the governmentand it was approved by the ministry this month,” the official circular from the board said.
 
 The pattern will be applicable for students currently in standard XI.
 
 The question paper for chemistry, biology and physics will comprise 70 marks for the written paper and 30 marks for practical/project work. 
 
 For mathematics, out of a total 100 marks, 80 will be written and 20 marks will be for practical/orals. 
 
 There will be only one question paper and one answer sheet for three hours for PCMB and statistics.Mhamane said, “The curricula for standard X will change next year and then for stds XI and XII. Currently, there is no change in the curricula of standard XI and XII.”
 
 
