NEW DELHI:   (SP) president   on Monday tweeted "Long live Netaji, Long live the  ", minutes after his father and party founder   said he doesn't plan to form a new party "as of now".

 The timing was interesting, because most political watchers fully expected Mulayam - who's affectionately called 'Netaji' - to announce the formation of a new party on Monday. He didn't. 
 
 "I am not forming a new party as of now," said Mulayam at a press conference he called earlier on Monday.
 
 It appeared Mulayam's estranged son and president of the SP, Akhilesh, tweeted about 'Netaji' and the SP, right after this announcement from Mulayam.
 
  
  
 Whether this means he managed to dissuade his father from any move he might make to split the SP is yet to be determined. But it does appear a split has been averted for now.
 
 To be sure, Mulayam did also say on Monday that he "doesn't agree with his (son's) decisions", a rift that first came out in the open last year around this time. 
 
 Political observers believed a split in the party has been imminent since January, when Akhilesh wrested control of the party's top post and its election symbol.
 
 Things were quiet on that front though, until Saturday.
  
 Talk heated up Saturday about a split in the SP, when Mulayam and his brother   stayed away from a state convention of the party saying they were not invited, PTI reported. Speculation was rife that Mulayam will on Monday announce a new party by joining hands with the virtually defunct Lok Dal.
 
 Akhilesh in his address at the Lucknow convention yesterday cautioned against "fake samajwadis" or "fake socialists". At the same time, he expressed deep respect for his father.
 
 "Netaji (Mulayam) is my father and this party (SP) belongs to him. His blessings are with us and we will carry forward his legacy. My father has always been with us and will remain with us," said Akhilesh, according to PTI.
 
 Yet, posters at the SP convention in Lucknow didn't have pictures of Mulayam or Shivpal. 
 
 The convention saw a realignment of forces within the SP as senior leader Azam Khan attended the event and lashed out at the "people who have betrayed the party", in an apparent reference to Shivpal, his one-time friend and confidant, said PTI. 
 
 Another surprise presence was that of SP Parliamentarian Beni Prasad Varma, whose inclusion in the party last year was said to have triggered the battle within the family. 
 
 
 
