NEW DELHI: A group of men went on the rampage at the official bungalow of   on Sunday night after his car, a Scorpio, allegedly  ,  . 

 After an argument with the driver of the Wagon R, the MP’s driver had parked his vehicle and left for home. A few minutes later, four-five men barged into the bungalow and began beating up his cook and household help. 
 
 CCTV footage recovered from the spot shows the men carrying rods and sticks entering the   and conducting a room-to-room search. According to Tiwari, the incident was reported around 1.20am when he received frantic calls from home. Tiwari pointed out that while the men were inside terrorising the staff, a PCR constable — responding to the Wagon R driver’s call — went inside to look for his driver, Mithun, rather than stop the violence. “My staff members told me that the men kept asking for me and my driver for nearly 20 minutes. They even reached the bedroom to look for me. Fortunately, I was attending an event and was not present,” he said.
 
 Tiwari, who is also the Delhi BJP state chief, alleged that “it was a pre-planned attempt to harm me and my staffers by someone disgruntled over the MCD elections.” Special commissioner, New Delhi, Mukesh Meena said they will conduct a probe to establish whether the entry into the house was pre-planned. “We have not ruled out any possibility and are scanning the CCTV footage provided to us by the MP,” said Meena.
 
 In the footage, the men are seen to be thrashing Tiwari’s cook, Ashok Pathak, and his help, Abhinav, when they try to stop them from entering the house. Pathak is also seen being dragged out of the gate when he tries to call for help. 
 
 On being alerted about the incident, Tiwari had informed the area DCP, after which a team from the North Avenue police station — which is about 200 metres away from the MP quarters — reached the house. The miscreants then tried to flee but were caught by the staffers of the MP. The police have arrested two of them, identified as Jay Kumar and his brother, Jaswant.
 
 According to the police, Jay Kumar was driving the Wagon R when it was hit. Tiwari’s driver had summoned help from the nearby bungalows to straighten up the vehicle. But there was an argument during which Jay Kumar allegedly threatened him with dire consequences. He later returned with Jaswant to look for Mithun.
 
 Their family members have, however, claimed that they were unaware of the identity of the others who had accompanied them. “There were a lot of heated arguments and some scuffle between my brother and the MP’s driver which is a normal reaction if your car is hit by someone and the vehicle is badly damaged. My brother went looking for the errant driver but we are unaware who else accompanied them and entered the house of the MP. My brother could not have entered the house knowingly. In fact, they had called the PCR,” claimed Jagadish, brother of the accused youth. The police are yet to confirm this.
 
 
