PATIALA: Protesting against the delay in release of salaries to regular employees of  , a large number of teachers and other staffers blocked the Patiala-Chandigarh national highway for over five hours on Friday.

 The drama continued till the university authorities assured the protesters that their salaries would be credited to their accounts and the rehired staff would be relieved soon.
 
 However, the adhoc committee of various employees associations of the university maintained that they would not completely withdraw their protest until the rehired staffers were not relieved from duties and would continue with a dharna outside the VC office.
 
 The state government had withheld its grant of Rs 50 crore as the university was rehiring the retired teachers and staffers. The protesters claimed there would be no financial crisis if the authorities hadn’t taken such a decision on rehiring.
 
  
  
 
 
 Trouble started on the campus at 10 am when employees gathered outside the VC office, who was not present on Friday. As the authorities refused to talk to the protesters, a faction of them walked towards the main gates of the university and blocked the highway. As the situation worsened on the highway with hundreds of vehicles getting stranded, the SDM Patiala reached the spot and tried to persuade the protestors to lift the blockade.
 
 The traffic movement remained suspended till 4pm, till the authorities gave them a written assurance to meet their demands.
 
 While an employees’ faction blocked the highway, another group led by Avtar Singh, who is leader of the adhoc committee, sat on a dharna outside the office of Punjabi University vice-chancellor. Avtar Singh said employees of four offices of the university –– examination branch, distant education branch, establishment branch and accounts department –– participated in the protest. He said they would continue the dharna till the rehired teachers were not relieved from their services in order to get the government grant.
 
 Dr Gurnam Singh, dean, academics, also tried to assure the protesters that their demands would be met soon.
 
 Meanwhile, the Punjabi University Reemployed   (PURPA) claimed that they had been rehired in accordance with the policy of the   (UGC) in relation to reemployment of professors, which was duly approved and adopted by all the university across the country and the financial crisis had not be created due to their re-employment.
 
