NAGPUR: “The   in our country are changing everyday and company secretaries ( ) should consider this as a chance to grow and enhance their expertise in order to assist   implementation of rules,” said member of Rajya Sabha, Dr Vikas Mahatme in his speech as a chief guest during the inaugural ceremony of the two-day conference, “CS, Gearing up for new opportunities” held exclusively for company secretaries at a city hotel on Saturday morning. 

 The Nagpur chapter and Western India Regional Council (WIRC) of The Institute of Company Secretaries of India (ICSI) jointly organized the conference which was attended by more than 120 practising company secretaries hailing from major cities like Mumbai, Pune and Bhopal.
 
 “This branch of profession was not known to many until recently but it holds utmost importance today when rules of our nation are undergoing various reforms for development,” said Mahatme referring to   (NCLT) and Goods and   (GST). 
 
 He branded company secretaries as ‘change makers’ and advised them to understand the laws in and out, abide by them and guide their clients thereafter.
 
 He said, “Knowledge and skills are poles apart, where the former focuses on theoretical study but the latter provides a practical approach to real life issues. It becomes a necessity to upgrade the skills with time to stay afloat in the ever-modifying trends and so, such forums happen to be source of enrichment.”
 
 He also suggested the delegates to carry an attitude inclined towards learning and accept the latest methods to become an efficient professional. 
 
 Chairperson ICSI, Chanchal Loya, vice-chairperson Piyush Katariya, secretary Rashmi Mitkary, ex-chairperson Manish Rajvaidya, WIRC member and programme coordinator Chetan Patil shared the dais with Mahatme. 
 
 While CS Divesh Goyal spoke about implications of exemptions given to private companies, Prachi Manekar, a lawyer, explored different shades of NCLT by quoting relatable examples. Keynote speakers Gagandeep Singh and B Renganathan from Mumbai also addressed the gathering along with CS Mukesh Parakh from city.
 
 Insolvency, bankruptcy code and other terminologies of economics are rungs of the ladder of success for a country and it is essential to get acquainted with them, exclaimed organizers.
 
 The delegates seemed jotting down notes and indulging in discussions while trying to understand the concepts collaboratively. 
 
 Director of   Gaikwad Patil Group of Institutions, Shriram Joshi said, “Once amendments are made in laws, the confusion prevails until it is accepted and executed in full force. Young professionals should get their facts cleared here to minimize flaws in the system.”
 
 (With inputs from  )
 
 
