LUCKNOW: In the 73 assembly constituencies from west UP going to polls on February 11, the BJP appears to be following its tried and tested formula of polarising rhetoric.Ever since the Muzaffarnagar riots in 2013 which claimed 60 lives and left scores injured and thousands homeless, political dynamics have seen a drastic change in the region.   elections saw a clear divide in votes on the basis of religion and the BJP is once again making every effort to take the UP election towards a similar division.Controversial faces of the party are already on the job.
Unlike the Lok Sabha elections, political dynamics have, to an extent, returned to what they used to be during the preMuzaffarnagar riots period.
 
 Along with the BSP, relying heavily on the Dalit-Mus lim combination to score over others in the region, the Ajit Singh-led Rashtriya Lok Dal has managed to win back some sympathy and subsequently some Jat support, disturbing the equation of the BJP to a large extent, said a BJP insider. He added that what causes more worry to the saffron pariwar is the fact that some of the party rebels like Leena Singhal, S K Verma and Kairana MP Hukkum Singh's grandnephew Anil Chauhan have joined hands with the RLD and are contesting on its ticket.
 
 The complexities have forced the BJP think-tank to include in their manifesto the Ram Temple, Kairana and closure of slaughterhouses, mainly in west UP region.
 
 Meanwhile, two controversial MLAs of the party are living up to their reputation.Muzaffarnagar riot accused and Sardhana MLA Sangeet Singh Som became the first of the leaders to reveal the party's polarising strategy. Equally controversial Thana Bhawan MLA Suresh Rana, another riot accused, has only furthered the cause.
 
 A video has gone viral in which he is heard saying that curfew would be imposed in Kairana, Deoband and Muzaffarnagar if he wins.
 
 According to political observers, while the two might have done so out of desperation to cement their chances, sending firebrand MP from Gorakhpur Yogi Adityanath first among the 40 star campaigners to west UP is in keeping with the party's strategy.
 
 In BJP's first major election rally in Bulandshahr on Monday , Adityanath urged voters to “remember the rapes and riots“ when they go out to vote on February 11, the first phase of elections in the state.
 
 BJP leaders claimed whatever they have said is true.Thana Bhawan MLA Suresh Rana said he had only stated that if he won the election, it would be curfew time for goons responsible for the Kairana exodus and harassment of women. “What's wrong with that?“ said Rana. “Ours is not politics of po larisation but politics of development and good governance,“ said BJP spokesperson Chandramohan, adding that people were fed up of poor law and order situation in the state and only BJP could improve the situation.
 
