Kolkata: Sushanta Karait started hunting through properties desperately on Saturday. His main condition was the place should be at least 500m away from Kona Expressway, where he currently owns Zaiqa, one of the biggest bars in Howrah. 

 A Supreme Court order banning liquor outlets within 500m of national and state highways from April 1 has cast uncertainty over his business.
 
 Howrah alone contributes close to Rs 1,500 crore excise revenue through its bars and off-shops, said Karait who is also at the helm of the bar association in the district. 
 
 “Business has been ruined. I do not know what to do. Till we find a place that complies with the order, I cannot restart my business. Even the government’s revenue will be hit,” said Karait, who had to keep his establishment shut on Saturday after excise officials informed bar owners alongside state and national highways to keep their places closed due to the SC order. 
 
 The apex court move has sparked similar scrambles in Hooghly, North 24-Parganas and Burdwan among other districts.
 
 Excise officials in different districts claimed that the liquor outlets under their jurisdiction remained shut on Saturday.
 
 Those having their establishments alongside EM Bypass, VIP Road and parts of Jessore Road heaved a sigh of relief. The apex court order would have affected them too, had the state government not dropped them from the list of state highways.
 
 “We had a close shave because these areas have a huge concentration of hotels, bars and off-shops. But the state government immediately denotified these stretches after the apex court’s December 15 order,” said the owner of a bar on VIP Road.
 
 But owners of 30-odd bars and off-shops in Howrah were not as lucky. “We do not know what to do. We are thinking of approaching the President for his intervention,” said Karait, who is also the president of the Foreign Liquor On and Off Shop and   in Howrah.
 
 “The excise department instructed us to keep our establishments shut from April 1. We did not even get any chance to clear our stocks or make any alternate arrangements. We have incurred massive losses,” he rued.
 
 Kona Expressway alone has five bars which fall in a 1km radius of Nabanna. There are another 30-odd bars on GT Road and National Highway 6. “The future of so many families is now uncertain,” said Karait. 
 
 Sumit Kumar, superintendent of Howrah (rural), said: “We are extending full support to the excise officials to implement the order.”
 
 In Hooghly district, all 36 bars and off-shops along the national and state highways were shut on Saturday. “We were completely taken aback by the order and did not get any time to work out an alternate arrangement,” said Amit Ghosh, manager of Golden Inn in Dankuni and vice-president of the association of bar owners. 
 
 “Close to 1,500 families will be directly affected due to this. We request chief minister   to come to our rescue,” said Ghosh.
 
 In adjoining Burdwan, 103 bars and outlets on the national highway remained shut. 
 
 Muzzamal Haq, officer in charge of the excise department, said on Saturday: “We had instructed the bar owners to keep their establishments shut. None of the places opened today.”
 
