The targeting of the third   in the US in the span of a fortnight , this time a Sikh, has ramped up the   among the community . The attack on  , which left him with a gunshot injury in his arm, right after he was asked to quit the country by his white attacker has people fearing the worst. However, Sikh bodies are increasing efforts to bring more awareness among people and urging the US authorities to make   a top priority.

 American Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (AGPC) president JS Hothi told TOI on Sunday, “No doubt it was non-fatal incident, and the police and FBI are investigating the shooting in which the Sikh was targeted on Kent's East Hill. The victim was repairing his stranded vehicle when he was approached by a man who opened fire on him. We want to know from the investigating agencies if it was the case of hate crime and we seek a thorough probe and action as per US law.'' US based advocacy group Sikh Coalition pointed out that the Sikh American community, which has been an integral part of the American fabric for over 125 years, is estimated to be hundreds of times more likely to suffer hate crimes than the average American due to their articles of faith, including turban and beard.
 
 Sikh Coalition interim program manager Rajdeep Singh too emphasized on making hate crime prevention a top priority. “Tone matters in our political discourse, because this a matter of life or death for millions of Americans who are worried about losing loved ones to hate.“
 
 “Investigating this as an anti-Sikh hate crime is critical, because without our government agencies recognizing hatred for what it is, we can't c o m b at t h e problem,“ said Seattlearea Sikh community leader, Jasmit Singh. The Sikh Coalition and local community leaders have organized “Know Your Rights“ forums to build community re silience and reduce the likelihood of future hate crimes.
 
 AGPC Coordi nator Dr Pritpal Singh said AGPC had already taken up the case with the US Sikh Congressional Caucus and other US Congress members and demanded a probe into the condemnable incident in which an innocent person was targeted.
 
 He said the incident appeared to be a hate crime, but confirmation from authorities was awaited.
 
 Executive Director of National Sikh Campaign Gurwin Singh Ahuja said, “This attack is part of a string of hate crimes.“
 
 Senior Advisor to NSC, Dr Rajwant Singh, said, “In light of this tragedy the Sikh American community must proactively fight fear and hate by continuing to help educate our fellow Americans about our faith and our values.
 
 Referring to a climate of fear, North American Punjabi Association (NAPA) executive director Satnam Singh Chahal said, “A high-level FBI probe should be held into this shooting.“
 
 The Friends of US Congressional Caucus head Harpreet Singh said that the incident was a matter of concern for the whole community . The US Sikh leaders also said that they will focus more on awareness campaigns to show that Sikhs are the most law abiding residents of US and had contributed immensely to the development of US .
 
 `DON'T IGNORE, REPORT HATEFUL THINGS'
 
 Sikh Coalition has issued an advisory asks community members to report even if someone says hateful things about their Sikh identity. “Don't ignore it ­please report the incident to the Sikh Coalition on our Report Hate website ­ http:reporthate.org.... “if police and policymakers know that hateful things are being said about Sikhs in their cities and neighborhoods, they are more likely to strengthen prevention measures such as police trainings, hate group monitoring, and physical protection of gurdwaras“.
 
