Gurgaon: The success of ‘Amma Unnavagam’ or ‘Amma canteens’ in Tamil Nadu seems to have inspired the Manohar Lal Khattar-led government to replicate the model here, of canteens that dish out affordable meals for working people of modest means. 

 The state government is currently busy working out modalities to start its own chain of subsidised eateries, especially for labourers working in unorganised sectors, during the summer this year.
 
 Beginning with a vision to provide low-cost meals for the public at large in 2013,   today have become a chain of over 200 outlets spread across Tamil Nadu’s urban centres. What has helped the model succeed is its simple menu — an idli for Re 1, a plate of curd rice for Rs 3 and a full meal of sambhar rice for Rs 5. Inspired by these canteens in Tamil Nadu, which were named after Amma, the nickname of late chief minister J Jayalalithaa, officials in   are planning to come up ‘Kaka canteens’ — Khattar is often referred to as ‘Kaka’ in the state’s corridors of power.
 
 Though the project is still in a nascent stage, the state labour department wants to set up such canteens in Gurgaon as pilot. Subsequently, such eateries will come up in all industrial and IT hubs across the state.
 
 “We’re working out various modalities, like total budget, exact locations, food quality guidelines, etc, in greater detail. We’re hoping for an early launch,” said a senior official at the labour department. The proposed eateries will have a unified IT backbone, which will give migrant   access to subsidised food across Haryana.
 
 “Beneficiaries will have to register themselves using their Aadhaar cards. Their labour card data can also be linked to it, which, along with UID numbers, will be saved in the permanent records. Once registered, workers can visit any of these canteens anywhere in the state and have food. This is to help unorganised sector workers who are often forced to migrate from one place to another in search of employment,” the official added.
 
 The data thus generated will also help the government assess various aspects like workers’ migration patterns and volume of economic activities in a particular part of the state.
 
 
