RUDRAPUR: Heavy and incessant rainfall over the past few days in Uttarakhand which caused water logging in several parts of the Terai region regarded as the ‘food bowl’ of the state have hit kharif crops -- mostly paddy and sugarcane -- resulting in severe losses to farmers.   Sources said that the crops which were sown over approxinately 1.02 lakh hectare land in the Terai region have been damaged due to heavy showers in the last few days resulting in losses which may run into several crores. The worst affected are the crops of paddy and sugarcane while groundnut, maize, bajra, jowar, onions and pulses have also sustained damages. Farmers TOI spoke to said that they have approached district officials regarding the loss and are waiting for authorities to assess the extent of damage they have faced. Initial estimates are that around 15% of the crop has been damaged in most areas although some areas like Sitarganj, Nanakmatta and Khatima have reported upto 40% loss.    Abhay Saxena, chief agriculture officer of the district told TOI that the damage figures may rise in the coming days as the data of loss from various areas is still trickling in. “Our officials are assessing the extent of damage. The worst hit were crops that were ready for harvest. There are 42,214 farmers covered under the PM crop insurance scheme across the district and we working out the losses incurred by them.”    Some farmers also alleged that they had incurred loss of upto 80% of their crop. Sukhvinder Singh of Sisaiyya village in Sitarganj told TOI that he was “left with only 20% of his crop.” Representatives of farmer bodies said that unless compensation was provided to them speedily, they will start an agitation. GK Mandal, president of Kisan Sangharsh Samiti, a body representing the region’s cultivators, said that most of the farmers were already staring at a loss due to lower realisation of their crop last year. “ The insurance people have not even started the ground survey yet. When will they start it and when will they finish and give us the money? We will be organising a dharna in each tehsil of the district on Tuesday to press for faster action by the government,” Mandal said.    Meanwhile, RK Singh, professor in the department of agrometereology, GB Pant University of Agriculture and Technology, Pantnagar, told TOI, "The Terai region has recorded 336.8 mm of rainfall so far this month. In the last three days, the rains recorded were 99 mm, which is quite high than expected for the harvested crops. The powerful winds blowing in the last three days have also caused damage to kharif crops. While we anticipate little showers this week, the dry season will only start from the first week of October.”