Gold chains worth Rs 17.91 crore were lost to chain-snatchings from 2011 to 2015. Usually,   perpetrate the crime, with women pedestrians being the victims. Thanks to police action following the death of a victim last year, snatchings have come down, but that doesn't mean the roads are entirely safe.What's worse, victims are traumatized and unless they are reassured of safe roads-something possible only if snatchings go down to single digits, if not zero--they may just stop going out of home.

 A report by the city police shows that 2,977 chain-snatchings were reported in the period under consideration. Eighty-five more were reported in 2016 (till October), taking the total from 2011 onwards to 3,062. The crime is usually committed by interstate gangs, who after an offence flee the state, only to return once the situation cools down.
 
 Subba Lakshmi, a homemaker from Uppal, became a victim on November 22.While she was retur ning home after dropping her granddaughter to school, two bike-borne men snatched her mangalsutra. She says all women in her colony are now scared of people moving around on motorcycles. “I am also scared of taking my grandchild to the school,“ she says, even now appearing visibly shaken because of the incident.
 
 Chain-snatching gangs strike early in the day, targeting morning walkers. They strike at locations like bus stops or isolated places where potential victims can be found sitting or walking alone. The gangs are so daring that they do not mind the presence of a CCTV network of over 350 cameras. A look at crime data reveals that most snatchings occur during March, June and September. The reason behind this interesting pattern is not yet known, though experts are studying it.
 
 A notable police action was the arrest of notorious offenders Babar, who has 102 cases against him, and the brothers Habeeb Abbad and Habeeb Hassan, who between them have 225 cases, following the death of a woman because of chain-snatching at   last year. Outrage was so huge that the police were compelled to act. Not that the police have been entirely incompetent. Of the stolen items, cops managed to recover valuables worth Rs 8.8 crore in the period under consideration. This is almost 50% of the worth of the lost items.
 
 The incident under question occurred on July 17, 2015.P Sumitra sustained a head injury after falling off her two-wheeler in the university premises when a bike-borne man tried to snatch her necklace. She died while undergoing treatment.
 
 The incident forced the police to take immediate measures. Almost 60 known chain-snatchers were booked under the Preventive Detention (PD) Act. They were sent to prison for a year without any provision for bail. Chainsnatchings dropped last year compared to 2014 because of police action following P Sumitra's death. “The results can be clearly seen. A 48% drop occur red in chain snatching in 2015, which went down to 271 from 523 in 2014. Several notorious snatchers, with over 300 cases against them, are in jail now. Also, we are continuously keeping a watch on others,“ said additional commissioner of police (crime) Swati Lakra. Experts say cops should stop patting themselves on the back and go for more aggressive policing to make Hyderabad safer.
 
