NAGPUR: Despite regaining power with a thumping victory, the BJP is yet to finalize its ruling party leader at the   (NMC). The saffron party went on to register its name, along with its 108 elected corporators, with the office of the divisional commissioner without its group leader.

 As per the schedule, Tuesday was the last date for registration of political parties and elected corporators. However, there is a provision of registration within a month but with penalty of Rs1,000, followed by Rs50 per day.
 
 Mayor Pravin Datke, ruling party leader Dayshankar Tiwari and BJP city general secretary Sandip Joshi registered the BJP’s name and also 108 elected corporators on Tuesday evening. Earlier in the day, all the corporators gathered in the NMC and completed necessary formalities for registration.
 
 Similar was the situation of Congress, the opposition party. BSP was the only party that registered its group leader’s name, with its state president Vilas Garud appointing first-time corporator Sheikh Mohammed Jamal  .
 
 Shiv Sena and   too did not complete the formality.
 
 Of the 151 corporators, 139 registered their names, including 108 of BJP, 10 of BSP and 21 of Congress. Two from Shiv Sena, one from NCP, 8 from Congress and the only independent corporator Abha Pande have not done so yet.
 
 Meanwhile, BJP’s alliance partner BREM of former state minister Sulekha Kumbhare demanded the divisional commissioner to register its two corporators with its party’s name.
 
 Sources at the divisional commissioner’s office told TOI that two corporators of BREM will be registered under BJP’s name. “BREM corporators Vandana Bhagat and Nagesh Sahare got elected on the BJP’s symbol. Similarly, corporator of RPI (Athawale) Nilesh Kumbhare got elected in alliance with BJP. Kumbhare will also be registered under BJP,” sources said.
 
 BJP sources said that Joshi, a four-time corporator, is set to be announced as the ruling party leader on Wednesday. “Fadnavis and Union minister   will clear the names of ruling party leader, mayor, deputy mayor and standing committee chairman on Wednesday morning. The two leaders were in Delhi because of which the process got delayed,” they said.
 
 It is for the first time that the BJP registered its own name. In the last three regimes, its registered as Nagpur Vikas Aghadi as the party had no clear majority and came to power by taking support from small parties and independent corporators.
 
 
