Krishnendu Mukherjee

 Kolkata: Stung by a recent directive by   (NTCA) under   (MoEF),   reportedly had to cut short its   in the Indian  , one of the largest   reserves in India and a unique one where the big cats are found roaming in the mangroves habitat. The crew, though, “managed to complete most of the shoot” by the time the NTCA order was issued.
 
 Following a BBC documentary criticising “aggressive” protection measures (shoot-at-sight order against poachers) in Assam’s Kaziranga, the NTCA had imposed a ban on the network and its journalist Justin Rowlatt on Monday. When this order was issued, the BBC shoot was underway in the Sunderbans.
 
 A senior Bengal forester said: “In view of the recent NTCA directive on February 27, we asked the BBC team shooting in the Sunderbans to wrap up their schedule early.”
 
 Chief wildlife warden Pradeep Vyas, however, said the team had already got all necessary footage of tiger and other wildlife in the Sunderbans. “They were in the process of wrapping up the shoot. They got tiger for almost an hour, fishing cats and king cobra. This is probably the first time that a shooting crew got to document wildlife in such a detailed manner in the Indian Sunderbans. In 2003, a documentary filmmaker had filmed a female tiger with its cubs from Sudhanyakhali watchtower,” Vyas said.
 
 Wildlife filmmaker Kalyan Varma, who was shooting the film for BBC, said: “By the time the NTCA order was issued, we were in the process of wrapping up our schedule in the Sunderbans. So, the development didn’t have any impact on our shoot here.” A forest department source, though, said the crew had a permission to shoot in the Sunderbans till March 15. They left Sunderbans on Wednesday, 14 days prior to the deadline. Varma said originally they had a plan to shoot from January 15 to March 15. “But we started our shoot from February 1 and managed to wrap it up by February 28,” he added.
 
 The shoot, Varma said, was undertaken as part of the network’s three-part series that will focus on various wild cat species found in the world. “They wanted to film tigers in a unique habitat like mangroves. Hence, the plan to shoot in the Sunderbans,” Varma said. The film, that will be released in 2018, will also have footage of clouded leopards, snow leopards and jungle cats from Indian forests. A source said following the NTCA order, the film’s shoot in Rajasthan’s Ranthambore has been called off.
 
 It may be noted that cameraman Mike Hard, more than a decade ago, had captured the swamp tiger in Bangladesh Sunderbans on film probably for the first time. It was reportedly the first glimpse into the secret life of the least known tiger in the world.
 
 
