Let’s face it. We hardly get to see much greenery in Mumbai, let alone revel in it. So when the chance props up to don the hiking shoes, you grab it, just like a bunch of city folk are increasingly doing. That’s right. As you’re perhaps sipping on your cutting chai and watching the rain through your office window today, a bunch of Mumbaikars are getting wet and dirty in the Sunday showers and loving every bit of it. These are folk who cant get enough of the lush, green countryside, hilly locales and thick waterfalls, and have made a monsoon trek their go-to activity. It’s not not ‘mission impossible’ either. From easy trails on the outskirts of the city, to the hillsides further up at Lonavala or in the Western Ghats, you just choose a terrain that suits you. Here’s what hot and wet right now… 

 
 
 City-based lawyer Ashish Ahuja who has been since   since 1998, affirms a rise in takers for the activity. “Way back then, there were such few trekkers during the rains, but now practically every trek is crowded. Earlier, there was such a thing as ‘discovering’ one’s path to the top, but that hardly exists now,” he says, adding, “We still try and chalk out routes to hills where there are lesser people, so as to enjoy the peace there. My favourite hill is Irshalgadh. It’s not very high — just 380 metres but it doesn’t have too many people and the lovely, expansive view at the top. It’s an apt day-long getaway for busy people.”
 
 Come Saturday and Sunday, you will catch these adventure junkies taking off to different other spots like Duke’s Nose at Khandala, Tikona or Vitangdgad at Lonavla, Kalsubai in Satara, Ratangad near Bhandardara, as well as One Tree Hill and Garbut Point at  . Trekker Sarfaraz Baghdadi votes for   near Lonavla. “This is popular as an overnight trek as it is close by. Peth near Karjat can also be done in one day so for busy city goers it’s a hot spot. Kondane Caves, close by has a nice waterfall and a well-marked path,” he informs. 
 
 Just getting out in all that the greenery can take away all the stress. Ask homemaker Jashna Mehta who gears up for the Sahyadris with her gal pals, every July. “The best part here is that you get a lovely view of Pawna Lake and its Scorpion Tail (an extension to its north), called Vinchukata, which turns lush green in the monsoons. Stand there for just five minutes midst that cold, rainy surrounding and you get completely de-stressed. We also explore Bhaja Caves, close by,” she informs.
 
 
 
 Sunay Bothra (10), celebrated his birthday on a hike last year when he took a bunch of friends to Karnala Fort. “My birthday falls in August, in the monsoons, and my friends and I felt we should try this as the weather is so lovely. It’s a great idea for other kids to do something like this, instead of just going to the mall or for a dinner around town. Karnala is an easy hike but you should go with a trained professional,” he says. Kavita Jain, a financial consultant and Wadala resident also celebrated her 14-year-old daughter’s birthday on a rainy-day hike. “This was at Lonavla near a waterfall. The kids were most excited as they experienced a different environment altogether.” 
 
 
 
 For some, it’s just a workout while for others, nature is addictive. For value educator Puja Bothra, the monsoon activity entailed meeting her trekking goals. “I've been to Kalsubai in Bhandardara, which is the highest peak in Maharashtra and the wettest one, too as you have to cross a lot water bodies — streams and rivulets — to reach there. I also did the highest fort, Sahler, near Waghamba as well as the second highest peak, Ahupe, which was postcard pretty. This is a medium-to-difficult level trek, with a steep climb and you have to be a little skilled to do this as you pass many waterfalls on the way. My advice is to do this with skilled trekkers who know how to handle the terrain. Apart from just being a goal, I love exercise and nature and this trek brings the two together. It’s also a fabulous workout — not limited to just one or two hours — and so far, I have not turned back from any mountain,” she grins. 
 
  
 Others are taking up such treks to give back to the community. Vivek Patil, ex-merchant mariner who calls himself the ‘Mad Man of the Sahyadris’, and his friends don’t just enjoy the trek, but also take food, clothes and medicines to the locals when they go for a hike. “Some districts and villages around forts and hiking spots have so many underprivileged people. When I first hiked 10 years ago at the Tungareshwar forest near Virar-Vasai and came back to it years later in 2000, I found their state to be the same, sadly. So wherever we go now, we make sure we take shoes, water filters, solar lamps and more for them. Other hikers could carry something small to hand out, too. There is also so much tribal talent around. We even started training tribal kids for marathons in Mumbai,” he says. 
 
 
 
 > Peb Fort
 > Rajmachi 
 > Irshalgad
 > Tikona
 > Kalsubai
 > Garbett Plateau
 > Korigad
 
 
 > Sports shoes or trekking sandals
 > Quick dry T-shirt and pants
 > Windcheater and snacks
 > Essential medicines
 > Whistle (in case you drift away from the group)
 > Dry zip locked bags for phone and wallet
 > Mosquito repellent
 
 
 
 Like all other sports, trekking has its share of perils. So, avoid places that are dangerous or very steep. Do some research to see which trail suits you. Always go with a qualified hiker and group and stay away from the edges. Avoid hiking at night. Do not take selfies either. After 55 students were stranded near a waterfall in Raigad recently, trek experts have come up with a list of spots that are deemed unsafe for trekkers and picnickers until September.
 
 
 
 > Devkund waterfalls, Raigad
 > Chinchoti waterfalls, Vasai
 > Pandavkada, Kharghar
 > Zenith waterfall, Khopoli
 > Kundeshwar, Badlapur
 > Kataldhar waterfall, Lonavla
 > Mahuli stream, Asangaon
 > Harishchandra Nalichi Vaat, Nagpur 
 
 
 
 
 
 
