MANGALURU: With a view to having a single point of contact for all guidance, assistance and grievance redressal for on board train passengers, Indian Railways has come out with the novel concept of a ‘Train Captain’ in trains.

 The initiative was launched after   chief commercial manager   found that grievances of commuters on trains were not being addressed, in spite of the existing helpline numbers and presence of police personnel on board. The train captain will travel from the source to the destination and will be the one-point contact for passengers.
 
 In Southern Railway, various trains are provided with the train captain. The   on Monday got its first captain --  , chief ticket inspector. Kumar said he voluntarily came forward to be train captain to help commuters. “I’m prepared for it,” he said, before boarding train number 12602 Chennai Mail from Mangaluru Central.
 
 The Railways said the names and numbers of the train captain will be displayed on all the reservation charts in the coaches. In the near future, it’s been planned to send all passengers of the particular train details of the train captain via text messages. Passengers can also contact railway helpline 138 to know the details about the train captain. If the captain is unable to resolve any issue, he/ she will intimate senior officers.
 
 The train captain will be overall in charge of the train, from be responsible for ensuring passenger amenities, including availability of water, cleanliness of coaches/toilets, working of electrical fittings such as fan, light, mobile charging points, etc.
 
 Train captains will be available on train no. 12623/624 Thiruvananthapuram Central-Chennai Central-Thiruvananthapuram Central Mail; train no. 12637/638 Chennai Egmore-Madurai-Chennai Egmore Pandian Express; train no. 16177/178 Chennai Egmore-Thiruchchirapalli-Chennai Egmore Rockfort Express, train no. 12671/672 Chennai Central-Mettupalayam-Chennai Central Nilgiri (Blue Mountain) Express and Train no. 12624 Thiruvananthapuram Central-Chennai Central Mail.
 
 
