GHAZIABAD: In a major reprieve to 19 students of  , who were issued transfer certificate (TC) for not paying annual and development charges, the school, following mediation by the district administration, has allowed them to attend classes for the ongoing academic session.

 The district administration has also directed the school to hold the payment of the annual and development charges till March 31, 2018, stating that the state government is working on a law in relation to the issue.
 
 Earlier, as many as 45 students were issued TCs by the school in July and August in parts after their parents refused to submit the increased fee according to the new structure of 2017-18, along with annual and development charges.
 
 Following the incident, parents met several authorities including the Meerut Mandal commissioner Prabhat Kumar, former Ghaziabad DM Ministhy S seeking revocation of the TCs. Parents said they were subsequently given deadlines by the school authorities to pay the fees.
 
 “After the school pressurized us for payment of annual and development charges, many of the parents paid the same. However, 19 of us have not paid the charges as the same is illegal and the joint education director (Meerut) has refrained the school from charging fees under the heads through a letter dated January 11, 2017,” Atul Srivastava, one of the parents who has not paid these charges, told TOI.
 
 While the children were earlier attending the school despite the TCs, they were not being allowed inside since August 25, following which some of them sat on an indefinite strike.
 
 A meeting was held between seven of the parents and the school authorities on Tuesday, following which an agreement was arrived upon by the school.
 
 According to additional district magistrate (finance and revenue)  , during the course of the meeting, it was decided that the two sides will abide by whatever arrangement will be done in accordance to law or government guidelines or order of the Allahabad high court.
 
 Srivastava had approached the Allahabad high court seeking a stay on TCs issued by the school, calling it “illegal” and “arbitrary”.
 
 Smriti Nanda, zonal head,  , said that the school has decided to keep the TCs in abeyance keeping in view the interest of the children. “It has been decided that those parents who have not paid the charges other than the annual and development charges, will pay them. We will abide by the guidelines of the state government or the court order,” she said.
 
 
