Coimbatore: Police have nabbed two teenagers who allegedly bludgeoned a 42-year-old man to death to steal his motorcycle and mobile phone. The body of Subramanian, a resident of Perumanallur in Tirupur district, was found at an isolated place near Chinna Bommanaickenpalayam in Tirupur on March 9.

 Subramanian, who was working as a sales manager with the Exide Life Insurance Company, had left for work on April 7. “After conducting a search for him, his wife Jayanthi had lodged a complaint with Tirupur North Police, who registered man missing case. Though police recovered his body from Chinna Bommanaickenpalayam, his motorcycle and mobile phone were missing from the crime scene,” a police officer said.
 
 Police inspector D Rajasekaran and team collected the phone call details of the deceased. “Before he was murdered, Subramanian had received a phone call. We traced the call and picked up a 17-year-old boy from Tirupur. Though he gave contradictory statements, the boy later confessed to the crime,” Rajasekaran told TOI.
 
 The boy told police that he hailed from Andipatti in Theni district. “His parents had settled in Tirupur more than a decade ago and he was working in a textile unit in Tirupur city. His 16-year-old cousin from Andipatti, who had completed Plus One, came to Tirupur and began working in a textile unit. They often visited a small shop located near the textile unit from where Subramanian used to buy cigarette. The boys introduced themselves to Subramanian and requested him to find jobs for them. Later, growing greedy, they planned to steal Subramanian’s motorcycle and the mobile phone. They called him over a mobile phone and asked him to meet them at Chinna Bommanaickenpalayam. When he turned up at the place, the boys attacked Subramanian with stones. After riding on it for sometime, the duo abandoned the motorcycle. The 16-year-old boy left for his home town after the murder. We managed to nab them three days ago,” Rajasekaran added.
 
 The boys have been lodged at the juvenile home near Lakshmi Mills Junction.
 
 
