LUCKNOW: The   on Saturday described the   manifesto for the assembly elections a “poor pirated copy” of the   manifesto released last week.

 “Be it laptops, Metro rail, Dial 100, women powerline and scholarships to girl students under Kanya Vidya Dhan or a host of schemes for farmers, the content of the BJP   has already been delivered to the people in Uttar Pradesh by the Akhilesh Yadav government,” said SP spokesperson and MLC Udaiveer Singh. 
 
 Dismissing the sops announced for farmers in BJP’s ‘sankalp patra’ as a bundle of poorly conceived hollow promises, he said not a single scheme of their manifesto had been implemented in any of the states where BJP was in power. 
 
 “The people of UP are aware of this and they will not buy such dreams any more,” he said.
 
 Taking on the BJP’s promise of waving farmer loans, he said the Modi government at the Centre had already pushed farmers to crises with demonetisation without making any arrangement to help the agriculture sector to tackle it. 
 
 “People cannot be taken for a ride by such assurances from the ‘jumle wali’ party,” Udaiveer said.
 
 “Now they are offering loan waivers for small and marginal farmers without giving any details as to how they will do it,” Udaiveer, a key member of team Akhilesh, said, adding that the “poorly prepared” manifesto suggested that BJP was almost sure it would not win the elections.
 
 Congress’s UP chief Raj Babbar also attacked the BJP’s manifesto by calling it a “pack of lies” and said the saffron party had raised the Ram temple issue once again to cover up all that it had promised but failed to deliver to the people of India. 
 
 Babbar, in a statement on Saturday, said the BJP would even ditch Lord Ram to suit its political ends, adding that PM   had promised to deliver 2 crore jobs to Indian youth after he was sworn to power in 2014. In the three years since he became PM, however, the party could not even talk about the number of jobs it had created for the youth of UP. 
 
 The   chief also raked up demonetisation and the “trauma it had caused” to people, and said BJP president Amit Shah’s promise to set up a anti-land mafia task force was nothing but a farce. 
 
 “The BJP has governments in Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand where the highest number of land mafia operate. Why hasn’t the BJP set up these task forces there?” he said.
 
 
