New Delhi: Sunday’s showers may have brought brief respite from the scorching heat, but they had an averse effect on Delhi’s civic infrastructure. Drains across the city were clogged and many roads were found   on Monday. Poor coordination between PWD and the three corporations added to the city’s woes.

 Many underpasses and intersections on stretches like ISBT, Moolchand, Dhaula Kuan, Rani Bagh and Minto Road witnessed traffic snarls due to waterlogging.
 
 This year, the south corporation has so far cleared 11,000 MT of silt from their 262 drains. The north civic body has removed 5,300 MT of silt, which is 63% of their total target and the east corporation has desilted 75% of their total drains.
 
 Since the creation of a high-level committee by LG Anil Baijal to monitor de-silting and waterlogging in the capital, there has been some coordination between corporation and PWD officials. A joint inspection by municipal commissioners and the secretary of PWD is likely in the first week of June. Penal action will be taken against local officials, if found guilty.
 
 “We have identified 11 major trouble spots in our jurisdiction and another 20 in areas falling under PWD,” north commissioner P K Gupta said. Rani Jhansi flyover, Lothian bridge, St Stephen’s Hospital and Mori Gate come under north civic body while PWD trouble spots include Azadpur Chowk, GT Road crossing, Lal Bagh cluster, Chhatrasal and Rohtak Road from Peeragarhi up to Tikri.
 
 “While we clear our drains before the monsoon, the bigger drains—which belong to agencies like DSIIDC, flood and irrigation and PWD—remain clogged. Their drains are connected to ours and it creates the whole problem,” Gupta said.
 
 Similar plans are afoot in south and east corporations. The confusion over jurisdiction often become the cause of suffering for Delhiites. “Now, teams of civic and PWD officials have been formed in each locality for better coordination. If civic officials receive a waterlogging complaint but the affected areas falls in PWD’s jurisdiction, the same will be immediately relayed to PWD staff,” said a senior official from the south corporation.
 
 The east civic body said action would be taken against officials if their performance was not up to the mark. “Junior engineers have been told that suspension, holding of salary and penal action are some of the measures they could face in case of poor performance, ” said a senior official from the east corporation.
 
 PWD, which is responsible for   all stormwater drains along the arterial roads, claims that work will be completed by May-end. In south zone, officials claim 50-60% of the desilting work has been completed. In east Delhi, work on a majority of 321 drains is going on while not much work has been done in north zone of PWD.
 
 
