SINGRA MAU (JAUNPUR): A story of revenge has spiced   poll drama in  . Kunwar Mrigendra Singh alias Shiv baba, candiate fielded by the Rashtriya Lok Dal, is a former BJP leader. Election for his is to take revenge from the saffron party which four generations of his family are associated with.

 “ Of course main badla lene ke liye chunaav lad raha hoon..." he told TOI, adding “we have been associated with BJP for the past four generations. Still, I was denied the ticket. I could have contested as an Independent candidate, but then things worked out with RLD,” he said. 
 
 Shiv Baba's great grand father Kunwar Sripal Singh was three-time MLA on Jan Sangh ticket. His grandfather Umendra Singh and father Kunwar Jai Singh have also contested   for the party. "So what if they could not win, they have given their best to the party," he said. 
 
 Mrigendra claims that he is contesting to put an end to caste politics on his seat. "Caste and religion overshadow needs of the people. I am for promoting education, augmenting health facilities and build infrastructure in my city,” said the 30-year-old who holds an engineering degrees besides an MBA. 
 
 Shiv baba attracts attention and enjoys a high recall value because of his height. He referred to as ‘saat feeta’ (seven feet tall). "My height is six feet seven inches and I cannot help it. Everyone in my family is very tall," he said. But voters in Bhalwali area run around to see the tallest candidate in fray. 
 
 But victory won’t be a cakewalk for him. Sitting MLA from Samajwadi Party, Om Prakash Dubey alias Baba, is putting his best foot forward to retain the seat. UP CM's wife and MP from Kannauj, Dimple Yadav batted for Dubey at a rally on February 28. BJP candidate Ramesh Chandra Mishra is banking on upper caste voters. 
 
  "The name   is not present in revenue records. No one knows as to how and when the name Badlapur came into existence," says Mahendra Dubey, a local businessman. The assembly seat of Badlapur was formed after delimitation in 2008. There are nine seats in Jaunpur, including Badlapur. 
 
 
