BHUBANESWAR: In a bid to meet   and  , the   has decided to engage retired teachers in   as part of the teacher-on-call scheme. 

 "The main objective is to maintain pupil-teacher ratio as per the Right to Education (RTE) Act. Since the vacant posts of sikhya sahayaks could not be filled up as the matter is pending in high court, many schools have not been able to maintain the desired ratio," said Mahendra Mallick, project director of Odisha Primary Education Programme Authority (OPEPA). 
 
 "Keeping the importance of transaction in mind and to ensure compliance with the RTE norms, it has been decided to prepare a panel of keen retired teachers of the locality to elementary schools, who will be engaged as guest teachers," he added.
 
 As per the Right to Education Act, the pupil-teacher ratio in primary and upper primary schools is 30:1 and 35:1, respectively. The state government had given advertisements for filling up 14, 087 posts of sikhya sahayaks in 2016, but the matter is pending in the court. 
 
 "Once the matter is settled in court, we can start recruitment process and there will be no need to engage retired teachers then," Mallick said. 
 
 The scheme had sparked a row after the government implemented it in secondary schools last year with unemployed trained teachers vehemently opposing it. "It's unfair to the unemployed trained teachers, who have been deprived of their rights to get a job. The government has been misleading the general public and also the media by saying that there is a shortage of eligible teachers," said Pradipta Kumar Pradhan, president of the Odisha Government High School Contractual Teachers Association.
 
 Sources said around 13000 posts are lying vacant in high schools, while around 36000 posts are lying vacant in elementary schools across the state. 
 
 Union petroleum and natural gas minister   had also criticised the teacher-on-call scheme and gone to the extent of saying that the state government used teachers like Uber and Ola cab drivers leading to mud-slinging between the ruling BJD and opposition BJP.
 
 
