BENGALURU: Sordid tales of   during   in the city emerged, even as police said they are sifting through   and other   from   and its neighbourhood, the hub of celebrations, to identify and take action against the culprits.

 City police, though, have not registered any suo motu case yet. “A team of officers, including additional commissioners, are scanning all footage recorded during the New Year celebrations. If we come across any incidents or evidence leading to such incidents, we shall take up a suo motu case,“ city police commissioner Praveen Sood said.
 
 Though no one approached the cops, many eyewitnesses came forward to share their experience with the media. Things appeared to be under control initially, but past midnight, all hell broke loose, and lathicharge was reported at several spots.Unlike last year, when the crowds were thin, New Year's Eve this time round had thousands of revellers turning out as the night wore on.
 
 “The crowd was unruly, it was like a stampede. And every time a woman passed by , the `molesters' tried to attack her. The horrific scenes really shook us. I saw a woman shouting for help, and another who took off her stilletos to protect herself. Another terror-stricken woman was helped by the police. You can fight back if one or two people try to molest you, but when it's a mob, how do you fight back?“ a woman told the media.
 
 “Many of the men on Brigade Road were drunk. Others were trying to go through the crowd, trying to protect the women who were with them,“ another eyewitness said.
 
 Police, though, said no one had come forward to register any complaints of molestation on MG Road, and their control room received no distress calls either. They admitted, though, that they had helped several women in distress, and resorted to caning wh e n eve r t h e s i t u at i o n threatened to go out of hand.
 
 Police officers said photographs and videos in the media, however, showed no incidents of explicit molestation.They said they are hoping people at the venue would come forward to provide information. “For the first time, this (molestation) has been pointed out. These type of things have been going on for many years,“ DGP & IGP Om Prakash said.
 
 A retired police officer hoped the decision to look into the alleged incidents of molestation will set a precedent. But he pointed out that cases could be filed against mobs, but unless the culprits are identified, no purpose would be served.
 
 HOOLIGANS IN CBD
 
 Social media, though, was divided over the alleged incidents of molestation. “Even as a man, I have avoided going to #Bengaluru CBD area on New Year eve, since very long time. Too much hooliganism, crowd and chaos,“ tweeted Tinu Cherian, a social media campaigner.
 
 However, there were also those who spoke against the use of words like `mass molestation' and said the incident was being overhyped. “One incident cannot make Bengaluru Unsafe. Words should be used carefully,“ read another tweet.
 
