HARIDWAR: After a hiatus of about five years following the banning of mining in the Ganga by the Uttarakhand high court and the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), Haridwar (rural) MLA   on Saturday launched mining activity to be carried out by the forest development corporation (van vikas nigam) in presence of a host of corporation officials.
 
  Yatishwarananda claimed that development works in the state, which had suffered due to the ban since 2012, would get a fillip with resumption of mining.
  
  Meanwhile, Haridwar-based ashram   has taken strong exception to the administration allowing mining in the river despite the high court and CPCB having issued orders to ban it.
  
  In protest against the administration’s alleged contempt of court,  , an ashram inmate, went on a fast from Sunday, demanding suspension of chief secretary S Ramaswamy, industry secretary Shailesh Bagoli, director (mining) Vinai Shankar Pandey and other officials responsible for issuing the order for resumption of mining.
  
  However, rejecting allegations that the corporation resumed mining in the Ganga against the high court and CPCB orders, district logging manager (DLM)   told TOI, “In fact, it took us almost five years to complete various formalities regarding mining, including clearances under the Wild Life Act and from the ministry of environment and forest. Committees were appointed to examine the case, and action was taken in compliance with their report before the clearance to mining was finally given in January 2017.”
  
  Rawat added that they sought fresh clearance, because the earlier permission expired after 10 years in 2012.
  
  Disposing off a writ petition, the high court had in March 2017 passed an order banning mining in the Ganga in the district.
  
  The state government challenged the order in the   and obtained an injunction against it on May 5, which paved the way for resumption of mining on Saturday. In the case, Matri Sadan’s appeal was not entertained by the apex court.
  
  Rawat claimed that “CPCB had issued no order to ban mining in the Ganga in Haridwar”, and as for the   (NGT), it had banned illegal mining, but allowed legal mining.
  
  “Mining has been started in the Ganga at Shyampur and Chidiyapur, two villages on the Ganga river banks, as well as in Kotaawali river according to norms, and based on proper clearance obtained from departments concerned," he added.
