GREATER NOIDA: After two real estate majors--Unitech and Wave Infratech--decided to part with a portion of land allotted to them in Noida, another realtor,  , has decided to opt out of its township project in Sector 22D in   area.

 According to sources, the Logix Group has decided to opt out, not because of paucity of funds, but because YEIDA has failed to hand over possession of a 200 acre plot for development for the past seven years due to farmer agitations.
 
 According to officials, the real estate company has paid YEIDA nearly Rs 110 crore for the plot located in Sector 22D for a township project. “We were unable to give possession to the developer as we have not been able to take custody of the land from the farmers,” said Arunvir Singh, chief executive officer, YEIDA. 
 
 “Farmers in the YEIDA area have been agitating for a hiked compensation of 64.7% for their acquired lands. Many farmers have approached the court and hence the delay in handing over possession to our allottees,” explained Singh. 
 
 Singh further said that the proposal from the real estate company is being examined. “The proposal is under consideration and we are waiting to see if we can take it back under the Project Settlement Policy that is aimed at addressing the issues of the realty sector besides providing reprieve to thousands of homebuyers in Noida, Greater Noida and Yamuna Expressway areas, or whether we need to formulate a policy,” he said. 
 
 Speaking to TOI,  , CMD, Logix group confirmed that his company had submitted an application to YEIDA with a request to refund their money and take back the land. “We were given possession of only 70 acre of the 200 acre allotted to us in 2010,” said Shakti Nath. “It has been seven years and we see no reason to park our funds in the project, which is yet to take off,” he added. 
 
 Meanwhile, 17 group housing builders of Noida and Greater Noida have applied for the rescheduled payment plan under the Project Settlement Policy in an attempt to end the impasse being faced by the homebuyers in getting possession of their homes. Noida’s builders who have applied for the amnesty scheme include R G Residency Private Limited, Sikka Infratech, Sunshine Infrawell, IITL Nimbus, Capital Infra, Express Builders, Pan Realtors, etc. Their projects are located in sectors 70, 75, 77, 78, 120, 143B and 168. Greater Noida’s realtors include SJP, Saya, New Way, Prasu etc. 
 
 The objective of this exercise is to give relief to homebuyers and help them in getting their homes at the earliest. Once the rescheduled payment plan is implemented, registries of residential flats will begin. All files are under process, said officials of Noida and Greater Noida Authorities.
 
