PUNE: The Lonavla city police late on Thursday night seized 6,000 scrapped currency notes of Rs 1,000 denomination each from a Pune-based trader dealing in solar energy products. This is one of the biggest seizures in the district after the deadline to deposit the old notes in banks ended on December 31, 2016.

 Inspector Chandrakant Jadhav of Lonavla city police station said constables V E Jambhale, J V Devkar and A C Wadekar were on patrolling duty on Thursday night. “They laid a trap near a restaurant along the   highway and stopped a car around 11.30 pm after receiving a tip-off about illegal exchange of scrapped notes in the area,” Jadhav added.
 
 There were four people travelling in the car. After searching the car, the policemen found 60 bundles of the Rs 1,000 denomination notes kept in a bag. “The cash belonged to the trader in solar energy products from Pune,” Jadhav said.
 
 The trader was apparently trying to convert the black money into white with the help of two agents, including a tax consultant. “We have handed over the seized notes to the Income Tax department for further investigation,” Jadhav said.
 
 “Out of the other three people in the car, one was a 65-year-old retired government officer and a tax consultant, who had promised the trader to convert his black money into white through their contacts. The third person was the trader’s friend from Pimpri,” Jadhav said. 
 
 Prima facie investigations revealed that the tax consultant and the retired officer had told the trader that they knew one person in Mumbai who would help him in exchanging the scrapped notes. “The duo had also told the trader that the person could charge 50% as his commission,” said an officer from the Lonavla police.
 
 After the demonitisation was announced on November 8, 2016, the last day to exchange or deposit the old currency notes in the bank was December 31, 2016. However, people from some select sections of society were allowed to deposit old bills at specified branches of the   till March 31, 2017. 
 
