SHIMLA: Two days of   and rain in   have left around 70 tourists from West Bengal stranded at Chitkul, the last Indian village near   in  , as road connectivity has been disrupted due to heavy snowfall and sliding glaciers. The stranded tourists are likely to be evacuated on Saturday.

 Chitkul is located some 250km from the state capital, Shimla, at an altitude of around 11,320 feet (3,450m). It is the highest village of Baspa valley in Kinnaur and located on the right bank of Baspa. During peak summer season, hundreds of domestic and international tourists visit the place. At present, the area is covered under three to four feet of snow.
 
 Dharam Singh Negi, a resident of Chitkul village, said intermittent snowfall over the last two to three days had made it impossible for the tourists to leave the place since Wednesday. He said as road connectivity has been snapped, the tourists do not have any other option but to wait till it to be restored.
 
 Another Chitkul resident, Dr R S Negi told TOI that the group was safe and staying at the village guest houses. They have been preparing their own meals and had purchased food items and ration from the village on Thursday, he added. “Their family members must be worrying about them, but they should know that all of them are safe as the villagers are taking care of their comfort,” he said.
 
 Kinnaur deputy commissioner (DC) Dr Naresh Kumar Latth said that around five members of the group had complained of fever, headache and other minor health issues and a team of doctors from Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) camp and district administration had provided them the required medical aid.
 
 “The tourists would be evacuated on Saturday,” DC said. He added that work to open the road was in full swing and vehicular movement would most likely be restored by Friday night. He said a sliding glacier had blocked the road near Rakchham where men and machines of public works department have been pressed into service. He also said tourists are safe in hotels and guest houses.
 
