NEW DELHI: Case files without papers are inconceivable in India’s three-tier judiciary which is hard pressed for space to store them but the   is attempting just that by planning to go digital in 200 days.

 Chief Justice of India J S Khehar declared on Thursday that the   will go almost paperless in six to seven months. "We will electronically pick up records from trial courts and high courts. There will be no need for appellants to file those records. The appeal just has to state the grounds on which the petitioner is challenging a judgment in the SC," said the bench also comprising Justices D Y Chandrachud and Sanjay K Kaul.
 
 Every year, on an average, as many as 70,000 appeals get filed in the SC. Each appeal, which contains trial court and HC records in addition to documents cited as annexures, runs into over 100 pages. Bigger the stake and larger the law firm engaged to file the appeal, the bulkier the petitions, running into several volumes, each volume running into 200 pages.
 
 This means, on an average, every year around 70 lakh pages of white sheets, the ones used in the SC are slightly bigger than an A4 sheet, get used in petitions filed in the SC. If the CJI’s assertions come true and even if the appeals get reduced by two-thirds of their present size, leaving the rest for stating the grounds of challenge, then the country would save nearly 50 lakh pages every year and resultantly, a large number of trees from getting axed.
 
 This impromptu revelation about the SC going digital came from the CJI when senior advocate Indira Jaising mentioned a writ petition filed by her seeking laying down of transparent and fair guidelines for designating lawyers as senior advocates by the SC. Less than 24 hours ago, a bench headed by Justice Ranjan Gogoi had referred the matter to the CJI, saying the issue required adjudication by a larger bench.
 
 Jaising was about to request the CJI to expeditiously refer her petition to a larger bench, but was pleasantly surprised when the CJI said, "I have already done that. Your petition stands referred to a three-judge bench. Things which require to be done must be done immediately. No point in deferring them."
 
 A new standard of promptitude is being set by the CJI, who has steadfastly refused the pleas of renowned advocates for out of turn hearing for their clients’ cases. Another tradition of lengthy persuasions by lawyers during mentioning of cases before the CJI-headed bench for early listing of cases too has been discarded. PILs, which used to be filed in droves on every conceivable issue, have now become a trickle after the CJI-headed bench started imposing hefty cost, up to Rs 10 lakh, on frivolous petitions.
 
 In this background, breaking away from tradition probably came easy for Justice Khehar, who assuaged Jaising’s fear that making a large number of bar associations parties to her petition would consume a lot of paper and prove deleterious for the environment by saying the court would soon go digital.
 
 
 
 
