KRISHNAGIRI: Two persons, including a 13-year-old boy, were killed and three others critically injured after a speeding container truck rammed the omni van they were travelling in near Kaveripattinam in Krishnagiri district on Sunday evening.

 The container truck hit the omni van from behind and the mangled vehicle was trapped under the truck wheels. An earth mover was used to rescue three of its passengers and also to retrieve the bodies.
 
 The deceased were identified as Devaraj, 60, and his 13-year-old grandson E Rahul, both from   in Kaveripattinam. D Elango, 38, his wife E Padmavathi, 36, and his son E Gokul, 16, who were also travelling in the omni van, have been admitted to the Kaveripattinam government hospital with severe injuries.
 
 Devaraj, police said, owned a home appliances store at Kaveripattinam. The incident took place on Sunday evening when Devaraj, his son Elango, daughter-in-law Padmavathi and grandsons Gokul and Rahul were on their way to the Murugan temple at Kattinayanapalli in the omni van.
 
 When the vehicle reached near Thimmapuram on Krishnagiri–Kaveripattinam Road, a speeding container truck hit the omni van from behind. In the impact, the omni van was completely mangled and trapped under the wheels of the truck.
 
 All the five were caught inside the mangled omni van and the injured sought the help of other motorists. The locals immediately alerted the Kaveripattinam police, who rushed to the spot. The police were, however, not able to pull out the injured from the van.
 
 Fire and rescue service personnel also reached the spot and with the help of an earth mover rescued the three injured, besides retrieving the bodies of Rahul and Devaraj.
 
 The bodies were sent to the Krishnagiri government hospital for postmortem while the injured were rushed to the Kaveripattinam government hospital. The Kaveripattinam police have registered a case and further investigation is on.
 
 Following the incident, traffic was hit on the   for more than one hour.
 
 
