AHMEDABAD: On Tuesday, India lost its beloved ‘Teacher of the Sky’— Professor Yash Pal, at 90. The first director of Space Applications Centre (SAC) in Ahmedabad,   was the pioneer of the   Instructional Television Experiment ( ), which gave birth to the satellite TV age in India. He, like late professor U R Rao, who passed away on Monday, lived the dream of the father of the Indian space programme, Vikram Sarabhai.

 Prof Yash Pal had recalled, during jubilee celebrations of SITE in Ahmedabad in 2015, “Sarabhai wanted TV to make life in villages more meaningful, richer and liveable.” It was at Pij (a village in Kheda) where television began under the SITE project in 1975 and India’s tryst with satellite technology started.
 
 In one interviews, Yash Pal recalled how he came to Ahmedabad. Pal met Vikram Sarabhai when he was a young scientist at TIFR in Mumbai, researching cosmic rays in the early 1970s. Sarabhai soon died and Pal met his successor professor, Satish Dhawan, for the first time around 1973.
 
 “That year Dhawan visited my home and told my wife that I will work in Ahmedabad for five years. To my wife’s surprise, I had to leave for Ahmedabad the next morning, although my children were studying in Bangalore,” Yash Pal had said.
 
 Yash Pal remembered how the then controller S R Thakore made him an office at  , for SAC. He met former NASSCOM chairman and scientists Kiran Karnik, Pramod Kale and E V Chitnis here. Yash Pal began the SITE project and worked closely with sociologists, artists, writers, agricultural scientists, schoolteachers and even dramatists to devise educational programmes.
 
 SITE was made possible with Indo-US (Isro-Nasa) collaboration where the services of American ATS-6 satellite was used to relay educational programmes between 1975-76. It was the world’s first educational satellite. 
 
 A senior SAC scientist reminisced, “Yash’s focus was children, to whom he showed how science was everywhere, that their immediate environment can be questioned , understood, explained and manipulated using the scientific method for the good of all life.” He added, “For instance, he would use the example of a bicycle to tell children about sound, air pressure, springs, air pumps, wheels and valves.”
 
 
