MADURAI: With the   on mechanised trawlers commencing along the Tamil Nadu coast on Saturday, the state government is mulling over possibilities to extend the ban period to 61 days from the existing 45 days.

  In 2015, the Union agriculture ministry, after convening a meeting with all coastal states, had resolved to increase the fishing ban period from 45 – 47 days to 61 days on both the eastern and western coasts of the country. The decision was taken based on the recommendations of the technical committee of scientists from Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute. It was decided that the ban will commence on April 15 on the eastern coast and on June 1 on the western coast. 
 
 However, the central government gave a period of five years to state governments to promulgate the extended ban on their coasts. While states like   and West Bengal have already implemented the new regulation, Tamil Nadu is yet to implement it.
 
 Though efforts were taken to extend the ban period, official sources from the fisheries department said that the stakeholders’ meeting could not be convened due to the bypoll in Chennai. Now with the poll cancelled, the department has directed district units to convene meetings with stakeholders. “There will be a state-level stakeholders meeting at Chennai on April 18 to discuss the extension of ban period,” a fisheries official said.
 
 Meanwhile, the state government has raised the ban period compensation from Rs 2,500 to Rs 5,000 from this year. 
 
 Over 5,000 mechanised trawlers from   to Kanyakumari districts will not venture into the sea from April 15 to May 30. During this period, the owners will haul their boats to the shore for maintenance work, while fishermen working on these mechanized boats will join country boats in need of hands. A sizeable number of fishermen will also migrate to the western coast in search of jobs at the fishing harbours in Kochi and Mangalore. 
 
 When trawlers drop anchor
 
 There are 5,266 mechanised trawlers in the state and the ban is applicable to most of them, except the few operating from Colachel fishing harbour in the western coast of Kanyakumari district 
 
 The ban is not applicable to non-motorised crafts and country boats of which there are more than 26,000 in the state
 
 It is likely to affect 2 to 3 lakh fishermen depending on mechanized trawlers
 
 The state government has raised the ban period compensation from Rs 2,500 to Rs 5,000 from this year
 
 Fish prices are likely to increase by 30% to 40 % 
 
 The ban in   is for 47 days (April 15-May 31, inclusive of both days)
 
