NAGPUR: “If a disability in a child is detected when he is a toddler, it can be cured and the child can come in the mainstream. Government should make   (Brainstem auditory evoked response audiometry) test compulsory for all newborns which will eventually reduce the problem by 50%,” said Dr Sukumar, national organizing secretary of  .

 He was speaking at an orientation workshop on ‘Welfare Schemes and Legal Provisions for Persons with Disabilities’ at   on Saturday.
 
 The event was jointly organized by Ali Yavar Jung National Institute for the Hearing Handicapped, Mumbai, Samadrishti Kshamata Vikas Evam Anusandhan Mandal (Saksham) and Sri Gangadharao Chitnavis Trust, Nagpur to spread awareness about the various government schemes for the disabled. A number of representatives of NGOs and differently abled persons attended the workshop.
 
 Sukumar said, “Early detection and intervention can help shape a life. This responsibility lies on the shoulders of educationists, social workers and vocational trainers.”
 
 Cochlear implant and speech therapy can normalize the conditions for the hearing-impaired. Citizens should spread the word to save lives, he added.
 
 Well-known ENT surgeon and the chief guest at the event Dr Madan Kapre expressed the need to reach out to mothers who deliver a child with high birth defect risk. He said, “Screening test should be conducted at every nursing home, so that immediate remedy is provided.”
 
 Kapre sighed about the negligent attitude of some parents. He said, “They are ready to spend exorbitantly for treatments of their old parents but make excuses about financial crunch for their own disabled child’s treatment. This dichotomy exists because the child cannot talk about his trouble.” We need to stand out for such children and be their voice, he said.
 
 Controller of examination, MSBVEE Suhas Kale said, “There are 82 skill development workshops for disabled sanctioned by government but only 20% are affiliated. This matter should be probed to improve the quality of knowledge. This will help them earn a living and make them self-sufficient.”
 
 Counsellor at  , chief trustee Avantika Chitnavis, trustee Rahul Kade and president of Saksham ( ) Sughakar Ingole were present.
 
 
