AJMER:   has seized 78 antique silver coins of King Edward VII era while digging at   of Nagar area for laying the water pipeline.

 A pot of silver coins was found during digging on Friday night. When the news spread, locals rushed to the spot and looted the treasure. It is estimated that there were about 400 coins in the pot found hidden under the ground.
 
 Parkash Road remained under tight security since Saturday morning.
 
 “On Friday night, a contractor was digging in the area to lay a pipeline. During digging, labourers found a mud pot. When they looked inside, it was filled with silver coins,” said a source.
 
 When residents of the area came to know about the pot, they rushed to the spot and looted most of the treasure.
 
 “We recovered 66 coins late on Friday night and 12 on Saturday morning,” said Haripal Singh, SHO, Alwargate police station.
 
 There are chances that people looted the treasure, he said.
 
 Sources confirmed that the pot was full of coins and when it was broken the coins spread on the road. People took away the coins.
 
 On Saturday, when digging started once again, hundreds of people gathered on the spot in the hope of new treasure.
 
 Police said that the coins will be submitted to the government treasury. “Police has been deputed in the region to control the mob and maintain law and order,” said an official.
 
 Sources said that the silver coins have one paisa engraved on them with a seal of British Government and King Edward VII in a semi-circle and weigh 11.66 milligrams each. “These coins came to India during 1906 and came into use in 1910,” said an official source.
 
 According to residents, the spot where the digging was going on used to be a temple of a local deity. Probably, someone at that time hid the pot in the premises of the temple so that no one could know about it.
 
 “The pot was made of black clay and there is a Kumhar Basti just some hundred meters from the spot where the coins were recovered. Someone got the treasure hid it in the temple premises, so that no one can find it,” said the source.
 
 Recently, in nearby Tonk district people had found gold coins in Jankipura village near  , which was the seat of a sadhu.
 
 According to the local history, King Edward and Queen   came to   at the time of British rule in India, following which King Edward Memorial and   were constructed in Ajmer.
 
 
