BHUBANESWAR: Bhubaneswar has been witnessing unusually dense fog this year reducing visibility to less than 50 metres. The intense fog has impacted air, rail and road communications badly in the coastal region of the state for the second consecutive day on Sunday. Weatherman said sharp fluctuation in day and night temperatures, high humidity levels and pollution in the city are the main reason behind this.

 “The intense fog condition witnessed in Bhubaneswar this year is certainly unusual. As the day temperature has started increasing in the last few days but night temperature is not increasing accordingly. Due to clear sky the night temperature is equal to dew point temperature creating favourable condition for creating dense fog,” said director of  ,  . The increase in pollution level in the city also contributed a major factor for development of such dense fog in the city, he added.
 
 He said, cool sea breeze blowing in the afternoon is bringing lots of moisture from bay to land. But in the late evening the breeze stops and the moisture get concentrated in the coastal area causing dense fog. “Several parts are also witnessing 100% humidity levels, which creates favourable condition for fog formation,” said Sahu.
 
 Several long distance trains continued to run late for fog while two trains have rescheduled. The visibility of thick blanket of fog engulfed the city till morning 8.30, official report from IMD said.
 
 IMD however predicted that the fog conditions may not continue for long as there is cloud formation in some parts of the state. “ There is also forecast of light rainfall at isolated places in the north and south pockets in the state in next two days,” said Sahu.
 
 The IMD said both minimum and maximum temperature saw a rise across the state due to such fog condition. Sundergarh recorded lowest minimum temperature of 11 degree Celsius. The state capital saw minimum temperature of 19.4 degree Celsius, one degree more than normal and maximum temperature is recorded at 32.6 degree Celsius.
 
 “The city had not witnessed such dense fog conditions in the last few years. Several lives were lost in road accidents occurred during the wee hours due to fog.   could be the reason behind such unusual weather conditions,” said Aswini Mohanty, a science teacher in a high school.
 
