NAGPUR: Even as   in Nagpur recorded poor placements for its pioneer batch, the   felt, it was just a temporary phase which would pass in next couple of years. Some believe that   and absence of its permanent faculty and campus, may be the some of the factors that had affected the placements. 

 Ironically, the situation is more or less similar across all new IIMs. Even the Ministry of Human Resources Development (MHRD) acknowledged poor placement records of second and third generation IIMs. Expressing concern, the ministry had initiated a gap analysis of placement records and also asked its   (Management) to seek details of final placements and salaries offered to the students from these premier institutions, as per the sources from MHRD.
 
 “Any institution takes time to settle down and by that account IIM-N’s performance is good. The situation is same across all new IIMs and I don’t think there’s anything unusual in it. The companies know about IIM’s brand equity, but they adopt wait and watch approach to see how a new ones performs,” veteran alumni Prakash Shesh said.
 
 The management trainer further pointed out that since Vidarbha region lacked industries, the students couldn’t be placed fully in comparison with cities like Mumbai and Pune where local industries picked most of the management pass outs. “IIM-N managed to place 50% of students because of the brand, other management institutions are still struggling to place even 10% of its batches,” he said.
 
 Nonetheless, other alumni like Sanjay Arora felt that industries in the region were incapable of paying hefty salaries, except big ones like TCS, and therefore, the question of absence of industries didn’t arise. “It was expected that first batch wouldn’t be placed fully. But after all, IIM is a big brand and you will see a complete turnaround in a couple of years. Considering the fact that IIM-N is operating without its own campus and other facilities, 50% placement is still commendable,” he said.
 
 Endorsing them, management guru Lalit Khullar said IIM was a national brand and hence, all remaining students would be recruited eventually. “Being a national brand, it has nothing to do with region specific placements. The students would be picked by the companies from India and abroad. It’s too early to predict that only 50% are placed while rest would have to struggle.”
 
 Another IIM alumni added that remaining IIM-N students would be recruited in next couple of years, as many big and renowned companies were slated to start their operations in Mihan. “The absence of permanent campus, faculty and even facilities are slightly affecting the placements, but all these factors would be a thing of past in next couple of years.”
 
 The MHRD has already asked the new IIMs to provide details like average, median, highest and lowest salaries for the students and also to evaluate the reasons for poor placements. It advised the IIM directors to strive for 100% placements, sources said.
 
 Apart from Nagpur, the new IIMs that were set up in last few years included — Amritsar, Rohtak, Shillong, Siramur, Vishakhapatnam, Bodhgaya, Kashipur, Rohtak, Udaipur, Ranchi, Trichy, and Raipur.
 
