MUMBAI:   was just 16 years and 112 days old when he cracked a masterful unbeaten 119 to save a Test for India against England at   in 1990. 27 years later, it was the turn of his 17-year-old son to cause England some worry on the eve of their opening Test against South Africa at Lord's, London.

 Delivering a perfect inswinging yorker,  , a budding left-arm pacer, who's been a regular at the England nets for the past three years now, left   hobbling in pain on Wednesday evening, leaving the hosts concerned about the availability of one of their most consistent batsmen for the first Test. Bairstow recovered from the blow to play the game, but the 'junior' Tendulkar' was soon trending on social media. It was probably also an indication of the improvement the youngster has made to his game.
 
 Arjun has come through the ranks in Mumbai cricket. Four years back, he was included in the Mumbai Under-14 team, but didn't get a game after controversy erupted over his selection.
 
 Later, he played for the Mumbai Under-16 team as an all rounder and opened the batting and bowling. The teenager has now been picked in the probables for the off-season camp for Mumbai U-19 cricketers.
 
 On Thursday, when Arjun called up his 'personal coach' for the last three years, Subroto Banerjee, to give him a feedback about his bowling, the former India pacer wasn't surprised when his ward told him about the grief he caused Bairstow.
 
 "He was pleased with the way he bowled yesterday. He was swinging the ball back in with good pace, and one of those deliveries hit Bairstow hard on his toe. It's heartening, but I'm not surprised, since he possesses a good, quick inswinging yorker. A few years back, he had his father 'caught behind' in the nets at Lord's," Banerjee told TOI. "I'm happy with the rapid development in his game since I began training him when he was just 14. At 17, he's a far more mature cricketer now and has vastly improved. He just needs to carry this further. In two years, he'll crack the team. By 19, a pacer is ready and mature," Banerjee says. Prod him whether he means Mumbai or India, and all that the 48-year-old says is: "Anything's possible."
 
 While Sachin stood at 5 feet four inches, son Arjun is a strapping lad at 6 feet three inches which is considered to be an ideal height for a fast bowler. "He's gained height only in the last one-and-half years. His muscles have developed now," informs Banerjee, before playing down his role in Arjun's improvement curve. "I've taught things like how to bring the ball in, position of the wrist, but at the end of the day, it's all his effort," says Banerjee, who's also the pace bowling coach at the   (NCA) in Bangalore.
 
 A back injury had laid Arjun low last year, but Banerjee says that his 'student' is "bowling at good speed since the last three/four months, since recovering from the injury."
 
 'Star kids' generally find it tough to deal with the package of fame and expectations, but Arjun seems to be coping well on that front. "He never thinks about his father's legendary status, nor does he take any pressure. He's been brought up that way by his parents, and that is helping him develop like any other cricketer," Banerjee states. 
 
