PATNA: RJD functionary and onion wholesaler Pappu Gope alias Pappu Yadav (44) was murdered by contract   hired by his brothers.

 This was stated by police after they arrested   (42) and   (38) for allegedly plotting the murder of their elder brother. Police also arrested Nitish Kumar (22) and Lokesh Kumar (23), who were allegedly paid for shooting Pappu.
 
 “We are at work to catch the main shooter, identified as   (24),” Patna SSP Manu Maharaaj told newsmen on Saturday.
 
 Pappu was shot dead by two mobike-borne criminals near Fatuha Bazaar around 5.15am on May 16 soon after he left home for morning walk. 
 
 “Nitish was driving the bike while Manish was riding the pillion. Manish fired the bullet which hit Pappu on the right side of the neck and exited from the left side of his skull. A country pistol was used in the crime, which is yet to be recovered,” the SSP said and added it was Lokesh who tipped the shooters about Pappu exiting from his home for his walk.
 
 Police said Bachu and Dhananjay had struck a Rs 2-lakh deal with the killers. “A sum of Rs 25,000 had been paid in advance; the remaining amount was yet to be paid,” Maharaaj said, quoting the arrested accused.
 
 Property dispute was the reason. “Also, Pappu spent money during Dhananjay’s marriage ten months back and, in return, kept an SUV gifted to Dhananjay in dowry. Pappu would ask Dhananjay to pay the Rs 11 lakh he had spent on his marriage to get back the SUV,” the SSP said and added the two brothers had their head shaved as they attended Pappu’s funeral and other rituals.
 
 The duo tried their best to prevent police from suspecting their role. “They led the agitation and the road blockade after the murder,” the SSP said.
 
 Pappu’s brother-in-law Sanjay Gope said Pappu had alone spent more than Rs 1.5 crore on the treatment of his father Hari Kishun Yadav for spinal ailment. “He left everything in Fatuha and had almost settled in New Delhi for nearly two years to save his father, but he died. Pappu returned to Patna a year back,” he said, adding Pappu had three brothers.
 
