BHOPAL: In an effort to capitalise on Yadav family feud in Bundelkhand, the BJP leadership has roped in prominent leaders from Madhya Pradesh to intrude  's bastion of Etawah in Uttar Pradesh assembly elections.

 The party has assigned responsibility of 52 seats to state legislative minister  , who hails from Dabra, and made him the in-charge of Kanpur region. 
 
 Madhya Pradesh shares borders with Uttar Pradesh through 17 districts coming under   regions. This region comprises 52 crucial seats of Uttar Pradesh assembly, which were reduced from 56 seats earlier, after delimitation of constituencies. 
 
 Like Uttar Pradesh, the party leadership also assigned responsibility to Union ministers and members of national body in Punjab and Uttarakhand as a part of the preparedness for 2018 assembly polls in Madhya Pradesh.
 
 Apart from Narottam Mishra, the party has given responsibility of booth management to national vice-president Prabhat Jha and Union minister Narendra Singh Tomar in Punjab, national general secretary Kailash Vijayavargiya and Union minister Thawar Chand Gehlot in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan is one of the star campaigners in all three states.
 
 “I have covered 23 seats and 99 Mandals in Punjab and will cover the entire state by the day of polling. There are some issues due to anti-incumbency as BJP supported Akali Dal ruled the state for ten years but, we will stay on our development agenda,” Jha told TOI over phone. 
 
 Party leader Kailash Vijayavargiya is also campaigning in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand where he has been attacking Congress and Samajwadi Party after Rahul-Akhilesh tie up.
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 I had worked in Kanpur earlier during previous assembly polls and recently, managed affairs at Kanpur during Indore-Patna rail accident. I was stationed at Datia when I was asked by chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan to rush to Kanpur on November 20 after the mishap. Here, I was able to provide immediate help to the passengers from Madhya Pradesh. Since then I have been touring this area.
 
 
 BJP believes in development and voters of UP have already witnessed the high-profile family drama. I think, there is no need to explain to the public as everybody knows the truth behind the scene.
 
 
 I am in Kanpur since the last fortnight and am focusing on the Samajwadi Party's bastion in Etawah. I have toured the entire area and we are hopeful that we could make inroads in to the stronghold of SP's first family. 
 
 
 We are concentrating on every booth and have already conveyed our message to the public. Law and order, atrocities on marginalised class and crime against women are main issues and we are hopeful to get public support from this area. Our workers are trying heart and soul.
 
 
 I am hopeful to get full support in Bundelkhand region. We have 52 seats in the region and they will be a deciding factor in this polls. During our recent meeting in Jhansi, I could see how people were ready to support BJP in the entire region.
 
 
 Congress is nowhere in Bundelkhand. In Etawah, we have a direct fight with SP while in other regions of Bundelkhand, we are pitted against BSP.
 
