NAGPUR: Report of the study instituted by state government on social status of   (shepherd community) will not have any impact on the community’s demand for reservation. Even if   (TISS), which is conducting the study submits a negative report, the demand for reservation will continue.

 There are all the probabilities that the agitation may be intensified after that,   Member Dr Vikas Mahatme told TOI. He is also leader of the Dhangar Sangharsh Samiti. 
 
 The ophthalmologist from city emerged as a leader of Dhangars seeking reservation in 2013. He has also denied recent reports of Prime Minister Narendra   refusing to grant quota to the community. The Dhangar agitation began in 2013 and was backed by BJP. However, as the party did not grant quota after coming to power, the strike continued. 
 
 The present government has now asked for a report by TISS on Dhangars’ social status to back the claim on reservation as scheduled tribes (ST). After the agitation, Mahatme was made Rajya Sabha member by BJP.
 
 On Modi’s comments he said, it was a routine meeting with all the   MPs. “Groups of MPs met the PM in turns. I met him along with the MPs from, Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh apart from the state. The discussion was general,” he said.
 
 On the TISS report, he said Dhangars are interested only in the result not the process. “For us the result is reservation as ST, and the TISS report is merely a process,” he said.
 
 Mahatme said a meeting was held with the chief minister Devendra Fadnavis along the officials of TISS and state’s chief secretary (tribal affairs) Manisha Verma. The chief minister has asked TISS to submit the report by November. “The institute had expressed that it may take time to submit the report but Fadnavis has insisted on early completion,” he said 
 
 TISS is examining various aspects like anthropological facts, historical background and social status. The moot question whether the tribe Dhangar mentioned in the constitution’s schedule of tribes is the same as Dhangar.
 
 Those in the state are insisting in that Dhangars which are found in Orissa, Jharkhand an lead a pastoral life are same as Dhangars of Maharashtra. The reservation has been denied on the grounds that the two are different.
 
