Mumbai: MNS chief Raj Thackeray on Tuesday trained his guns on both the BJP and  , accusing them of large-scale corruption and claiming that what his party, which is in power at the Nashik municipal corporation has done in five years, the saffron alliance failed to do in 25 years. 

 Raj alleged that some elements in the Sena want to usurp the mayor’s bungalow at Shivaji Park as that has been earmarked for the Bal Thackeray’s memorial. Shiv Sena functionaries refuted the charge. 
 
 He was speaking at his first BMC campaign rally at the MNS bastion in Kannamwar Nagar, Vikhroli, from where his party has won corporation elections twice since 2007. Raj is perhaps the only “star campaigner” for his party and candidates gathered in large numbers as for the last few weeks, they were bored of merely hearing his recorded voice on loudspeakers. “They (Sena and BJP) are both fighting like kombdis (hens) every day, but can they show what they did for the public as far as good roads, education and civic infrastructure is concerned,” he said, while pointing out that several Marathi schools had shut down in the past few years while the number of Urdu schools increased. “This was done under Sena-BJP rule. What have they done for the Marathi manoos?”
 
 Raj also targeted Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the demonestisation issue. “The middle class had high hopes as Modi promised a new India from January this year but this is still to materialize. Nothing has changed at all. In fact, lakhs have lost jobs post demonetisation and 200 people died waiting in queues outside banks and ATMs. Is this the new Bharat we expected?” he asked.
 
 Targeting Sena, he said that the party was misleading the public by using Balasaheb's poster saying "je bolto te karun dakhavto (what I say I ensure its done)" "That was Balasaheb's famous line and he was true to his words. But what about the present Sena leaders. Have they really spent public money for providing civic amenities?"he questioned. He alleged that the Sena and BJP leaders were involved in daily arguments on state and Central issues and there is no link with BMC or concerned with the welfare of locals.
 
 He mocked BJP leaders for the claim on transparency, saying nobody knows what happened post-demonetisation to curb black money or stop counterfeiting of notes. “As for the CM, it is easy to make an announcement on the Shivaji statue at sea. But this will require Rs 8,000 crore to Rs 10,000 crore. He also announced Rs 6,500 crore for Kalyan-Dombivli and another Rs 10,000 crore for Mumbai. Does he have so much money in his pockets?” he remarked at the rally, adding that the only transparent thing visible in Mumbai were the potholes on roads. He also accused BJP, which does not have candidates in Mumbai, of large-scale poaching.
 
 It was from Kannamwar Nagar that the MNS got is first corporator elected in 2007, which is why this area holds a special significance for Raj and he therefore decided to kick-start the election campaign from the party bastion on Tuesday. Ironically, ex-corporator Mangesh Sangle who eventually went on to become the local MLA on an MNS ticket has now defected from the party and is contesting on a BJP ticket from this area. Sangle’s defection was a big jolt to Raj, which is why the election in the Kannamwar Nagar constituency has now become a “prestige issue” for the party, sources said.
 
 He will be addressing a few more public rallies this week, one each in Dadar, Thane, Pune and Nashik. The party is trying hard to woo voters across Mumbai, specially in view of the last assembly and parliamentary elections where it fared poorly. 
 
 
