PATNA: JD (U) president and Bihar CM   spoke with   over phone after the   and his family members, including deputy CM  , over corruption charges.
 
  This was claimed by RJD functionaries who rubbished reports of Nitish not coming to the rescue of Lalu and his party following the raids. “The CM did speak to Lalu over the phone on Sunday,” said RJD’s senior functionary Jagadanand Singh when asked by newmen about Nitish’s silence even as the Congress, NCP and Trinamool Congress came out in support of Lalu and described the raids as political vendetta.
  
  The revelation came as a surprise of sorts to the journalists as many of them had been reporting that Nitish leaving Patna for Rajgir a day before the raids on Friday was not a coincidence and that the CM was in talks with his party leaders over his next move.
  
  Jagadanand did not disclose what transpired between Nitish and Lalu. In reply to another question on the CM’s silence, state finance minister and RJD leader Abdul Bari Siddiqui said, “Hamare CM kaam karte hain (Our CM remains preoccupied with work).”
  
  Siddiqui and Singh were talking to mediapersons after a meeting of the RJD legislators at the residence of Lalu’s wife and former CM  . Though the emergency meeting was said to have been convened to discuss the party’s strategy in view of the opposition’s growing demand for the resignation of Tejashwi, the duo asserted the meet did not deliberate on the CBI raids or its political fallout.
  
  Siddiqui said the meet appreciated Tejashwi’s performance — as deputy CM and the legislature party leader. “Where does the question of Tejashwi’s resignation arise when his leadership qualities were lauded by the legislators in the meeting?” Siddiqui asked the newsmen.
  
  Asked about the impact of raids on the ruling alliance, Siddiqui said the BJP was trying to break the alliance. “However, the alliance is intact and we are committed to ensuring our unity,” he said.
  
  According to Siddiqui, the meet discussed three issues that included growing communalism in the country, presidential election and the RJD’s ‘BJP hatao, desh bachao’ rally slated to be held in Patna on August 27. Party legislators and workers were tasked with inviting people to the rally, Siddiqui said.
