New Delhi: Exactly a decade after he sold   to now-defunct  , the father of low-cost flying in India —   — will return to the world of scheduled commercial flights. His firm,  , is among the players which has bagged rights to operate flights under the Centre’s regional connectivity scheme ( ). 

 Air Deccan, along with  , has reportedly won 50 regional routes. The other successful bidders include two big boys — SpiceJet and Air India’s subsidiary   — apart from small players like regional carrier   holding company  . Under RCS, hourly fares have been capped at Rs 2,500.
 
 While RCS will kick off with Alliance Air operating a Delhi-Bhatinda flight soon, other players start operations in first round of the scheme later this summer. Sources said first round of RCS would see flights on 70 routes by five operators at 43 airports.
 
 The Airports Authority of India (AAI) had received 43 initial proposals from 11 bidders for 43 airports which would offer RCS flights. Of these, 31 are unserved airports and rest under-served.
 
 Sources say Air Odisha will operate about 25 and Captain Gopinath’s Deccan Charter will fly on 21 routes. Alliance Air and SpiceJet will operate RCS flights on at least five routes each, Turbo Megha would fly on at least six routes, they said. Some airports will see two operators operating flights on different routes. 
 
 The 43 unserved airports that will get on India’s air map with this scheme include Jaisalmer, Bikaner, Jamshedpur, Jalgaon and Akola and 12 underserved ones (which get less than seven flights a week like Gwalior). 
 
 Under RCS, hitherto unconnected cities like Pantnagar to Delhi and Dehradun and Jamshedpur-Kolkata will get aerial connectivity.
 
 India has 35 airports which are ready to receive flights but don’t get as airlines don’t find flying on those routes financially viable. The overcome this challenge, the government plans to raise viability gap funding (VGF) for RCS operators by charging Rs 7,500-8,500 on each schedule flight to and from big cities. It expected to raise Rs 400 crore from this cess for regional connectivity fund (RCF), apart from another 20% funding coming from state governments. However, airlines — which in turn will pass on this burden on flyers — have challenged this new cess in court.
 
 The levy to fund RCS will be reviewed once every quarter to factor in fluctuation in prices of aviation turbine fuel and other operating cost inputs. The recent hike in oil prices along with devaluation of the rupee versus the dollar has impacted costs by 20% already and the levy may have to be hiked soon.
 
 The fare cap and VGF ranges from: for 200 km flight, Rs 1,770 fare with VGF of Rs 1,810 and for flying 800 km, fare cap is Rs 4,070 and VGF is Rs 4,170. The fare cap of Rs 2,500 is for flights covering a distance of about 500 km in an hour for which the VGF offered will be Rs 3,790 per flyer.
 
 To qualify as RCS, one of the pair cities on which the flight is operated should be an unserved (where no schedule flight operate in last 12 months) or an underserved (that gets less than seven schedule flights a week).
 
 
