Bhopal: Aiming to provide generic drugs at affordable prices, Union minister for chemicals and fertilisers Ananth Kumar said the government will open 200 Jan Aushadhi stores in Bhopal.

 Kumar along with chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan was inaugurating the first   Mela here on Thursday. “Under Pradhan Mantri Jan Aushadhi Programme, the government will open 200 stores in Bhopal for which a memorandum of understanding (MoU) will be signed with the state government,” said Kumar while addressing a gathering on the opening of Digi Dhan Mela. The Union minister also dubbed chief minister Chouhan as the country’s first “cashless chief minister” while stating that Madhya Pradesh has emerged as pioneer in implementing cashless economy. He said Chouhan should embark on a national tour to make public aware of the digital economy and how to go for it. “Chouhan much visit entire country with his innovative ideas on good governance and promoting cashless economy. He has already turned a Bimaru (laggard) state into a developing state, which is a miraculous effort,” said Kumar. He also claimed to have solved the problem of fertilisers supply to the farmers, saying the Centre has provided Neem-coated urea to the farmers and they need not queue or ask for fertilisers at the time of sowing.
 
 Emphasising the importance of cashless transaction, the chief minister said that digital transaction is the only way to control corruption, black money and terrorism. He claimed that 95% mandis in the state have gone cashless and farmers are getting direct payments into their accounts. “Earlier, farmers used to fear carrying cash after selling their produce in the markets. It has become a thing of the past and farmers now get payment through digital facility,” said Chouhan.
 
 The government also released first e-wallet of cooperative department called ‘Sahkar Batua’ to help customers avail online transactions. The department also launched a SMS-based platform for Bhopal Cooperative Bank to facilitate the customers with offline transactions through mobile phones. The ministers also announced lucky draw results of NITI Ayog and winners of Digi Dhan Vyapar Scheme. Union minister of state for public health and family welfare Faggan Singh Kulaste, state revenue, science and technology minister Umashankar Gupta and minister of state for cooperatives Vishwas Sarang were also present. Digi Dhan fairs will also be organised in Indore, Gwalior, Jabalpur and Dewas in order to make public aware of cashless transactions.
 
 
