GURUGRAM: Civil hospital’s neonatal intensive care unit had a massive scare on Thursday when a snag left it without power for four hours. Eleven newborns were admitted there at the time.

 The kids, fortunately, are safe but the same cannot be said of the hospital. On Friday, TOI visited the hospital and found live wires dangling across the boundary wall. It only shows the apathy of the administration towards the dangers posed by faulty wiring and hanging loose wires to nearly 2,000 daily visitors to the hospital, its staff and school children of the nearby Government Boys School. 
 
 Hanging wires can be easily spotted across the premises, including near the office of chief medical officer and tuberculosis and AIDS wing. 
 
 A short-circuit in the electrical panel due to the water seepage in the cables in the neonatal unit had triggered the four-hour power outage in the hospital on Thursday. Eleven newborns, including six suffering from jaundice and four premature babies, were admitted at the neonatal unit when the short-circuit was reported.
 
 According to safety norms set by the  , overhead cables should be at least 20 metres above the ground, however, some of these high power cables can be seen hanging at a height of just one metre above the ground.The proximity of the loose wires to the water tank and hose pipes has also failed to draw attention of the hospital administration.
 
 A physiotherapist with the hospital, Dr Prahlad Singh, holds the additional responsibility of supervising the electrical maintenance. Clarifying that the hospital administration has already contacted the power department in this regard, he said, “We contacted the power department around a month ago. Its electricians came and analysed the situation.
 
 But they said that they do not have a stepladder to climb up and then they left. Since then, we have sent reminders repeatedly, but nobody has come.” Repeated attempts to reach the chief medical officer over calls and messages went in vain. 
 
 
