

 
  Nandamuri Balakrishna, Hema Malini, Shriya Saran, Kabir Bedi
 
 
 Krish
 
 
  12 Jan, 2017
 
 
 2 hrs 25 mins
 
 
  Gautamiputra Satakarni is a 2017 Telugu epic historical action film produced by Saibabu Jagarlamudi , Y. Rajeev Reddy on First Frame Entertainment banner and directed by Krish. Starring Nandamuri Balakrishna in title role marking his 100th film as an actor, and Shriya Saran as the female lead, Hema Malini in a crucial role and music composed by Chirantan Bhatt. The film is based on the life of 2nd century AD Satavahana ruler Gautamiputra Satakarni. The film is Nandamuri Balakrishna's 100th film.
 
 
 
 Gautamiputra Satakarni as promised is all about Telugu glory. And through the narrative, not once does Krish let you forget that women are the ones in power. Shriya as Vashishti Devi looked majestic yet delicate and played the role of a hurt mother impeccably. Hema Malini too was a delight to watch on screen. Although the maturity in Balayya's face helped during the high-emotion scenes, his body language wasn't cooperating. Your love for the language will experience a boost after watching this film. It was a job well done by Sai Madhav Burra; kudos! As much as the album was a great hear, the songs don't do much for the film. 
 ...
 
 
 This movie is a historical and it does the job of one – narrating the events. It focuses on telling the story in the grandest manner possible and gives lesser attention to details like CG during the war scenes. Repeat footages and weakly choreographed and costumed war sequences were a slight put off when you were riding high on the chivalry of yore. Cinematography too captures the mood of the film perfectly and not once would you find the visuals (barring the CG) unnatural. Having said that, the purpose of the film is telling the story and it did stay true to that.
 
 Gautamiputra Satakarni is certainly a must-watch for someone who feels strongly about the Telugu culture, language and history. And for others, it's a story you'll appreciate. 
 .
 
 
  
 
 
 Considering the advance bookings on th
 e film, which have already crossed 10 crores, the release could fetch over 15 crores gross approximately, gathering 10 crore from AP alone after the tax exemption. The global theatrical rights of the film have already been bought at a whopping 46.8 crores, and that already makes GPSK a success. Meanwhile the US collections are sure to cross $1 million soon after release.
 
 
 
 Coming Soon...
 
 
 
 Actor Sai Dharam Tej tweeted, "Hearing great reports about # GPSK congratulations to the whole team and @DirKrish , #NBK garu you are an inspiration to many of us, (Sic)."
 
 Kalyanram Nandamuri, "A landmark film for the Legend. Wishing Balayya Babai and the whole team of GPSK the very best. NBK 100 will make us proud, (sic)."
 
 However, director RGV tweeted rather much to the annoyance of the mega clan, "Hey @DirKrish Am supremely thrilled to hear my judgement went so right ..Congrats on the roaring talk of GSPK ..100 Cheers to u nd Balayya. Balayya in his 100th film only seems to have become 150 times more Mega advanced in terms of great cinema, (sic)."
 Shobu Yarlagadda wrote, " @DirKrish You made the impossible possible! Simply superb! Congratulations to NBK, you, Rajiv, n entire team , (sic)."
 
 Director S S Rajamouli wrote on his facebook page, "Saaho Basavatarakarama Putra BALAKRISHNA!!!
 
 I salute you sir for your portrayal of Satakarni that will make Nandamuri Taraka Ramarao garu proud. He will shower his blessings from above. Anjana Putra Krish, the blessings of 12 crore Telugus across the globe will be with you. How in the heavens could you make this epic in 79days? Unbelievable.. I have got a lot lot to learn from you.. Sai Madhav garu, your pen is Satakarni's sword. Excellent camera work and extraordinary production values make Satakarni a proud Telugu film to remember for a long time., (sic)."
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
