MUMBAI: Police, probing a case against   (28) from Mumbra, who had left to work in Egypt this January and allegedly joined the banned outfit IS, have found that he   in a Libyan jail. He was caught by the Libyan authorities in December. His detention has been confirmed by Dr Ramamurthy Kosanam, who saw Tabrez in IS custody.

 Kosanam, a native of Andhra Pradesh’s Krishna district, was abducted by IS cadres one-and-a-half years ago. He was rescued by the Indian mission in Libya in February.   Anti-Terrorism Squad ( ) officials apparently showed Tabrez’s photograph to Kosanam to establish if he was in a Libyan jail. TOI could not confirm it independently. 
 
 Tabrez, who has a year-old child, had on December 5 last year called up his family and said he had been arrested by the Libyan government and requested them to file a missing complaint for him and approach the embassy for his release. He had also told them to uninstall the Telegram app, through which he was communicating with them.
 
 Tabrez’s brother, Saud, filed a complaint with the state ATS after his mother received his call. “My brother also gave us his Facebook and Gmail passwords and told us to delete his accounts,” Saud told police. 
 
 An ATS officer said they had contacted the Union home ministry about Tabrez. The home ministry contacted the ministry of external affairs. “We are trying to bring him back,” said an officer. 
 
 The ATS had registered a case under various sections of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) against Tabrez and his associate, Ali. The family suspects Ali indoctrinated Tabrez and took him to Egypt, from there they went to Libya. Police have also found that Ali had sent around Rs 4 lakh to Tabrez last year for travel and other expenses. 
 
 Tabrez worked as a handler for six months in Air India’s cargo section and went to UAE in 2012 and got a job as a warehouse supervisor. He returned to India in 2013 and then left for Saudi Arabia, where he is believed to have met Ali. In October 2014, Tabrez returned to India, married 23-year-old Rukhsar and stayed on. In December 2015, Ali came visiting, stayed at a Thane lodge for a week, and was in touch with Tabrez, police said.
 
 
