JAIPUR: A week ago on September 9, 35-year-old Baktaram   was resting on his cot at home in Kumharon Ka Kola settlement in Patan, Neem Ka Thana, of   district at 8.30pm when a group of Rajput men barged in and accused him of letting a stray bull destroy standing crops that were nearly ready for harvest.
The men then allegedly pounced on him and thrashed him to death. With the police giving a clean chit to six suspects named by 55-year-old dairy farmer Pehlu Khan in his dying declaration after the attack on April 1 this year in Alwar, there is serious concern that such victims have little chance for justice. The clean chit was given to the accused in the lynching case despite having evidence such as video footage of the brutal incident.
 
 Kailash Meena, a local activist, said, “I took part in the Karawan-e-Mohabbat and returned to the village, and saw that Rajputs have gathered in strength at the house of the accused to give moral support. If the police do not act expeditiously , the Meena family will be threatened.The Rajputs are keeping vigil to see who is arriving at the house to offer condolen ces. There is an atmosphere of fear.“
 
 In an FIR lodged at Patan police station, the slain man's brother, Subhashchand Meena, has named the men involved in the attack -Raghunath, Ghanshyam,  , Bhaum Singh and Rawat Singh, among other Rajputs.
 
 In his FIR, Meena says the men asked his brother why he allowed his “uncle“ (the stray bull) to enter the fields and destroy crops. The Meenas have traditionally been the subservient people in this area. They are expected to safeguard crops even though there is no contractual arrangement between the two groups.
 
 The men had uttered cuss words related to caste, the FIR says. When the Rajput men kept beating his brother, Subhashchand says he attempted to intervene. “I tried to save my brother, but the men thrashed me. My brother fainted. We took him to Patan Hospital, but doctors declared him dead,“ he says.
 
 A case has been registered under sections 143 (punishment for unlawful assembly), 341 (wrongful restraint), 323 (causing hurt) and 302 (murder) of the IPC. “A case of murder has been registered, but the post-mortem report does not show injury. The cause of death is `heart collapse'. It is not clear if the heart collapse was occasioned by the beating. We will examine the medical history and pathology ,“ investigating officer Kushal Singh said.
 
 Sikar SP Vineet Kumar told TOI, “We will investigate this matter and check on the course of events. This is not at all akin to the Pehlu Khan case in Alwar.“
 
 
