Bengaluru: The elderly woman whose decomposed body was found in the wardrobe of a   house last week, was allegedly killed by her daughter and not the grandson as was initially believed, police said. They were quoting the youth’s friend who was arrested for helping the mother and son hide the corpse.

 Kengeri police have arrested Bidadi resident and aeronautical engineering student Nandeesh, 21, on charges of aiding his friend Sanjay, also an engineering student, and his mother Shashikala, who allegedly killed her mother   by hitting her on the head with a chapati rolling pin.
 
 According to Nandeesh’s statement to police, the murder was committed on August 17, 2016. The decomposed body was, however, found buried in the wardrobe floor on May 7. 
 
 Citing Nandeesh’s statement, police said the murder was the result of a petty dispute. On the fateful day, Sanjay, an engineering student, had brought food from a hotel which his grandmother refused to eat. Amid heated arguments, Shashikala hit her mother with a hard substance and Shanthakumari, who sustained head injuries, started bleeding profusely. 
 
 Fearing a police case, Sanjay and his mother decided not to take Shanthakumari, who was around 70, to hospital and she succumbed to injuries the next day.
 
 Initially, Sanjay and Shashikala planned to take the body to their hometown in Shivamogga and asked one of his friends to bring a cab. The friend, however, failed to turn up. The mother-son duo then purchased a blue container from a neighbourhood shop and sought to stuff the body into it, but in vain. Sanjay then sought Nandeesh’s help and the three dug up the floor of the wardrobe and partially buried the body. In fact, they wanted to shift it subsequently, but could not do so for various reasons. 
 
 Soon, foul smell started emanating; Sanjay, with Nandeesh’s help, filled the wardrobe with charcoal and put a layer of concrete over it. He then painted the wardrobe red to remove the traces, said police.
 
 Neighbours are said to have asked the mother-son duo about the missing grandmother during a festival. However, they were told that Shanthakumari had gone to her hometown.
 
 Meanwhile, Sanjay told house owner Naveen, 35, that he would vacate the place and got him to pay Rs 50,000, half the deposit he had left with the landlord, through  . The mother-son duo went missing from February 2.
 
 On May 7 when the rental agreement ended, Naveen opened the door but was puzzled by the mess near the wardrobe. He alerted Kengeri police, who broke open the wardrobe and recovered Shanthakumari’s body.
 
 Sanjay is also alleged to have cheated several people and collected money from them, saying he would arrange bank loans online. 
 
 He bought odour eliminator
 
 Clues provided by Naveen on the people visiting his tenant were crucial to the investigation. “The inquest at the scene of crime too threw up many leads. Sanjay had left behind his mobile phone. There was a message on his phone about the delivery of an odour eliminator that he had purchased online,” said Kengeri police inspector G Y Giriraj. 
 
 Investigators said that after vacating the house, the mother-son duo may have been holed up in a lodge in Majestic area for a few days. Cops suspect they might have headed towards north India thereafter. 
 
 Police said Sanjay came from a very well-to-do family which had fallen on bad times. The family hailed from   in Shivamogga district. Sanjay’s parents were divorced and he had moved from Shivamogga to Bengaluru, where he took the Kengeri house on rent in May 2016.
 
 The family struggled to make both ends meet, police said, explaining why the tussle over food between the two women took a grave turn. 
 
 
