LUCKNOW: As the joint roadshow of   president   and   vice president   passed Aminabad on Sunday, an 81 year-old woman shouted from her balcony, “Mere Karan Arjun aa gaye.”

 Hundreds of supporters of Akhilesh Yadav and Rahul Gandhi gathered with party flags of their respective parties at every crossing and turnings of Aminabad, Molviganj, Rakabganj, Nadan Mahal road, Nakkhas, Chowk crossing and Khun-Khun ji road. Residents of the areas were seen waiting on their balconies for the arrival of the leaders.
 
 “Yeh ek aur ek gyarah ki jodi hai (this is a winning combination),” said Toni Gandhi, Congress worker from Aishbagh, associated with the party for past 30 years. Physically challenged Toni converted his four-wheeled scooter into a publicity vehicle for Rahul and Akhilesh as his old friend Anokhe Lal from Rae Bareli balanced on the rear seat waving the flags of the two parties. Mulayam Singh Youth Brigade member Ritesh Valmiki from Chowk said, “Youth power hi desh ke achche din layega (youth power will bring happy days in India).” The general refrain of the supporters’ chants was that though Akhilesh was enough for development, alliance with Congress will strengthen his ideas. 
 
 The two leaders arrived at 3pm and boarded the UP Vijay Rath around an hour behind schedule. Insiders said it was the refurbished Vikas Rath that broke down on November 3 when the CM launched Vijay Se Vikas ki Ore Yatra. A white high-end bus, the vehicle bore pictures of Sonia Gandhi and Mulayam at the entrance and bigger cutouts of Rahul and Akhilesh at the rear end. 
 
 Slogans ‘Jai Mulayam jai Akhilesh' and ‘No confusion no mistake, jai Akhilesh jai Akhilesh’, ‘Vikas ke gul, Akhilesh aur Rahul’ and ‘Ye saath hume bha gaya, Rahul tu jo yahan aa gaya’ rent the air. All supporters and onlookers thronged the bus to capture the duo. The happiness of getting the desired click sustained pain in the ribs caused by typical SPG commando’s nudge.
 
 Many traders chose to keep their shops closed in view of the roadshow. But in Hazratganj, shoppers awaited to see the CM. “I heard the CM is passing through and am waiting to see him live,” said Hina Arora, front office manager in a popular hotel. Residents welcomed the new alliance showering rose petals and perfume as Akhilesh and Rahul passed by on the route from Aminabad till Nakkhas.
 
 Supporters clung to the Ashoka Pillar in Kaiserbagh to shower flower petals. In Nazirabad, children were elated to see the CM’s children who were accompanying him, while in Aminabad women wondered if Akhilesh had “ever visited the crowded before”.
 
 All through the course, passing through Maulvi Ganj, Rakabganj, Nadan Mahal Road, Chowk and Hussainabad, Akhilesh gathered the warmth and attention showered upon him while congressmen kept their finger's crossed. "The kind of response suggests that the mega alliance has been accepted whole heartedly by the public," remarked Pramod Tewari, senior Congress Party leader.
 
 At 4:40pm, as the procession reached Nadan Mahal Road, children shouted from their balconies, “We love you Chief Minister” as their parents and family members waved.
 
 When the rath reached Nakkhas, a 73-year-old woman came out on the road and pushed cops shouting “Mere Karan Arjun aayenge yeh suna tha, par ghareebon ki galiyon mein aayenge, yeh dekh bhi liya.” At Khun-Khun ji road, a 7-year-old boy on a bicycle shouted, “Yeh lo bhai tumhari cycle.” 
 
 At the crossing on Hardoi road, as the cavalcade headed for Clock Tower, Akhilesh and Rahul were trapped in thorns of a babool tree that was canopied. Meandering through Naza Market, Lalbagh and Noor Manzil the roadshow reached BN Verma Road in about an hour. Residents, even in houses with BJP flags waved at the two leaders, clicking pictures on their mobile phones. 
 
 Some bystanders created dubsmash moments giving imaginary words to Rahul and Akhilesh. “Metro project bahut tezi se chal raha hai,” mocked one for Rahul. Replying for Akhilesh, the other said, “Election ke baad tumhein bhi ride karwaata hoon.”
 
 The road show concluded at Clock Tower where both leaders addressed the public. 
 
