Coimbatore: City-based start-up Perks4 Loyalty has tied-up with more than 800 online retailers and local merchants to offer discounts and cashbacks to its customers. Members of Perks4 would be able to save over Rs 10000 a year by using the company's platform compared to consumers who directly log on to the retailers’ sites, said Guru Kulandaivel, founder and CEO, Perks4 Loyalty.

 Every time a member logs on to e-commerce platforms like Flipkart, Snapdeal, Myntra, etc. through the Perks4 portal they would get extra cashback. In addition to online shopping, Perks4 has tied up with hundreds of local establishments like Bombay Brasserie, Toni&Guy, Radisson Blu, etc. where its members get exclusive discounts.
 
 “People who do online purchases miss out on free discounts and cashback because they log on to the e-commerce portal directly and seem to be quite content with the deal,” he said. “Our members can save up to 10% extra cashback when they shop online from hundreds of retailers by clicking a link from Perks4 portal,” he stated.
 
 Kulandaivel, who has returned home after a 14-year stint in the US, recalled his engagement with a Fortune-500 company and the soft benefits he enjoyed through corporate employee discount programme offered by his then employer, which indirectly helped him save money—be it on purchase of a laptop, restaurant coupons, gym membership or mobile bills among others.
 
 “When I purchased my Jeep I got an extra $5000 discount through corporate employee discount program,” he said. “Our strategy is to share revenue with our customers. Retailers typically spend upward of 20% on marketing their products and services. These marketing budgets and commission payments usually end up in pockets of intermediaries and agents like Google,” Kulandaivel said.
 
 Perks4, which works on an affiliate marketing model, has deployed a proprietary technology platform under collaboration with VAC Media of the UK that enables it to track its members when they visit online retailers originating from Perks4 portals. The start-up is targeting groups of customers like employees, students, defence personnel, retirees etc. and is customising the offerings as per requirement.
 
 “We are in talks with corporates and institutions on this referral programme,” he said. “While many companies have offered our platform as employee benefits, associations such as IIT Madras (IIT-M) Alumni Association has offered our platform to benefit staff, students and IIT-M alumni,” Kulandaivel stated.
 
 “Every time the customer is directed to the marketing site (e-commerce portal), we get a referral fee, which ranges between 3% and 12%. We share a part of this with our members,” he said when asked about Perks4’s revenue model.
 
 
