At first glance,   comes across as a regular corporate guy. The 47-year-old works as the global head of recruitment in WNS, and stays in a posh locality on MG Road, where he also doubles up as the RWA president. However, like many other Gurgaonwallahs, Adil also has been bitten by the 'running bug'. What makes him stand out is his sheer dedication for it. While most others are content with the odd run or two in a year, Adil has become India's most prolific long-distance runner, having registered his name in the   for completing 39 long-distance events (marathons, ultra-marathons, half-marathons, and triathlons) in one year (between 1 July 2015 and 30 June 2016). In April, he became the sixth Indian (and the first from Gurgaon) to finish all six major marathons in the world- New York, Chicago, Boston, London, Berlin, and Tokyo – which are collectively called the World Marathon Majors.

  Running began as a hobby for Adil some eight years ago before he moved to Gurgaon from Delhi. He tells us, "One day, I just decided to run every morning to stay fit. My wife and our few friends were running, so I joined them. In fact, I participated in my first long-distance run - the half marathon in Mumbai - in January 2009 without any training whatsoever. That gave me the confidence to participate in more such events." However, for the next four years, Adil’s participation in long-distance runs was sporadic. He elaborates, "Initially, I would do a couple of runs a year. It wasn’t until 2013 that I really started participating in marathons regularly." By 2015, Adil was participating in so many runs that he set a new national record. "Between July 2015 and June 2016, I completed 39 long-distance runs, which was a new national record. My name entered the Limca Book of Records. In fact, in the 2016 calendar year, I finished 53 runs, which is more than one per week," he says. But Adil is not sitting back on his accomplishments yet. This year, he is set to break his own record. He says, "I am aiming to take the number to 60 this year. I am already past 50 with a month-and-a-half left." He makes it a point to take part in a run whenever he visits a new city. "I call it a run-a-cation (run+vacation). My wife plans the whole thing. We go to a new city, I run there and then we do some sightseeing. It’s the perfect way to explore any city," says Adil.
 
  
  
 
 
  
  Gurgaon's long-distance runner Adil Nargolwala, runs for us on the Gurgaon-Faridabad road (BCCL/ Ranjit Kumar)
 
 When asked how he manages to balance running in different countries with the demands of his corporate job, he replies, "My company has its offices spread across the world, so that helps. Also, my job requires me to travel so I make it a point to run at one event in every city that I go to. Plus, most of these races are held over weekends, so work never gets affected." In fact, he says that at times, he even solves work-related problems while running. He tells us, "When you are running, it’s just you and your mind for those 2-4 hours. So you think. I think about work and other stuff. There are times when I have solved issues at work during a run. Then, at other times, I have planned future vacations during a marathon too. Now, running comes naturally to me, almost like breathing. It’s not something you have to put an effort into."
 
  
  
 
  
  His name was also mentioned in the Limca Book of Records for having completed 39 long distance running events in a span of one year
 
 Adil says that the Gurgaon he started running in years ago was a different city than what it is today. He tells us, "Today, you have so many runs and events in Gurgaon every week. But back when I started, there was hardly anything. I used to run around   and adjoining areas. It was just groups of runners doing things on their own and getting together every weekend or so. That really developed a culture of running in the city. I’m happy to see it has not just survived but gotten better over the years." According to Adil, the one thing that has helped Gurgaon develop a culture of running is the abundance of good locations for the same in the city. "You have Leisure Valley Ground, Golf Course Road, the Aravalli Biodiversity Park, and so many other places in the city, that several groups can organize several runs in the city at the same time. Personally, it has helped me develop my passion because it always helps to live and practice in a city where everyone around you likes doing the same thing," he says.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
