NAGPUR: The women and child development department, Nagpur division, has disbursed Rs5.20 crore as compensation to 250   survivors in Nagpur district so far since October 2013. The compensation is part of the ‘Manodhairya scheme’ floated to benefit rape survivors. It’s learnt that the department’s Nagpur division has asked for another Rs68 lakh to extend the benefits to 33 more survivors.

 Each survivor has been getting minimum Rs2 lakh and maximum Rs3 lakh, based on the gravity of the case and their background. Minister for women and child development Pankaja Munde has last week promised that the compensation may soon be increased to Rs10 lakh for such aggrieved souls. Munde had issued the assurance in the backdrop of a   ruling.
 
 The scheme, implemented by the state government, is meant for the physical and mental rehabilitation of survivors of sexual assaults, which includes their shelter, medical assistance, legal support and educational requirements. The survivors, either women or children, also includes victims of acid attack.
 
 In Nagpur district, the benefit has so far been extended to mostly survivors of sexual assaults. A scrutiny committee, also known as District Criminal Injuries and Rehabilitation Board, under the chairmanship of resident collector, decides the benefactors on the basis of the gravity of the cases and background of the survivors. In the last three years, the committee comprising police officials, representatives of district women and child development department, and a citizen member, processed 292 cases but accorded approval to 250.
 
 District women and child development officer, Nagpur division, Vijaysing Pardeshi said the police stations must send the cases of sexual assaults and acid attacks to the department on the same day. “The cases where it is observed that the complaint was a fallout of a dispute between two consenting adults, who had been in a relationship in the past, are generally the ones which are ignored. The genuine cases get a nod where the committee can see the need of the survivors in the case itself,” he said.
 
 “Our department has already written to the city and rural police to expedite the process of sending cases to the department for scrutiny. Police should give a copy of the registered cases to either protection officers in rural areas, or directly to district women and child development department. Failing to send cases to the department is a lapse of duty,” said Pardeshi.
 
 He also said that the first instalment, in the form of 25% cash, is handed over to the survivor immediately after the case is registered, while the rest is submitted in a fixed deposit in their personal bank accounts. “In case of minors, we are following a practice where 75% of the benefits are submitted in fixed deposit, which would mature once they attain adulthood,” he said.
 
 WHAT IS THE PROCESS 
 
 Step one: Registration of case 
 
 Step two: Cases are sent to District Women and Child Development Department
 
 Step three: Cases are put up before scrutiny committee for ascertaining gravity 
 
 Step four: Serious cases, where survivors are in need, get the nod
 
 Step five: 25% of the amount is disbursed in cash
 
 Step six: 75% is put into fixed deposit
 
 
