MUMBAI: The Bombay high court on Thursday directed the state to submit CCTV footage of the attacks on doctors in Dhule and Thane government hospitals, one prior to the doctors' agitation and one after it ended.

 The HC called upon the government, BMC and Maharashtra Association of Resident Doctors ( ) to give details of living and working conditions of resident doctors in state and civic hospitals by April 24.
 
 They have to detail “most problems faced by resident doctors, including shortage of accommodation and lack of ward boys and staff, apart from security concerns,'' said the bench of Chief Justice   and Justice Girish Kulkarni while hearing a PIL filed by   against strikes by doctors, who were recently assaulted by relatives of patients. “Once the details are there, all three can implement the steps, through a special committee, if needed,'' said the bench and pos ted the PIL for further hearing on April 24. The court had on March 29, after observing the “deplorable living condition of B J Government Medical College, Pune, government hospitals in Ambajogai, Miraj, KEM Hospital, JJ and  ", had told the state to inform it about steps taken to improve their condition.
 
 The bench told Prashant Pophale, lawyer for MARD, “This does not mean MARD members must shirk respon sibility. They have to collect information too." When state lawyer Milind More said they appointed 332 security guards across hospitals on April 5, the bench said that “500 were to be appointed by April 5." More said the process was ongoing, and the remaining would include women.
 
  (BMC) counsel S S Pakale said he, a deputy municipal commissioner and hospital deans inspected KEM and Sion hospitals on Sunday. He ad mitted “deficits that have to be rectified" and sought orders to improve and increase hostel accommodation for resident doctors, who are sometimes put “six to a room".
 
 “How can they work if they live in such conditions?" the bench asked. The court directed BMC to make all efforts to redress accommodation issue concerns.The bench sought a report of statements recorded by police after the Thane attack on doctors. “What is the state doing? That means the 'two relatives per patient norm' is still not implemented? Again, state has been lax. We are not happy... We want CCTV footage to see what went wrong, why it happened, who said what, to know the reason for the strike," said the Chief Justice, expressing concern about the last attack. She observed, “If after maiming a doctor people are not arrested, what is the point?" The high court did not allow an intervention plea by Indian Medical Association, which said it was the “apex body" and wants to “assist the court".
 
