BENGALURU: Festive spirit is in the air, and garba and dandiya beats have reached a crescendo. For Gujaratis,   celebrations are synonymous with glitz, glee and most importantly, dance. And every year, the enthusiasm engulfs Bengalureans from across communities and age groups. Kanta Ben, 85, who made Bengaluru her home many years ago, is the seniormost member of Shree Indiranagar Gujarati Association. “Once you enter a hall packed with Gujaratis dancing to traditional garba songs, you can't stop yourself from shaking a leg. Dandiya and garba nights at our association are open to all-Punjabis, Kannadigas, Tamilians, Biharis and so on. Celebrating with everyone keeps one healthy and happy," she said.

 The association, which has about 900 members, is observing its 30th Navratri celebrations this year.
 
 More than 35 Gujarati associations in the city usher in Navratri with much gusto. Garba and dandiya events are hosted across Bengaluru, given that many of its localities like Rajajinagar, Kumara Park, RT Nagar, Vasanthnagar, Indiranagar, Jayanagar, Whitefield and Gandhinagar are home to a large Gujarati population.
 
 Vibrant lehengas with mirror work and rustic jewellery are a must on the list of garba enthusiasts. “Most homemakers in Gujarat don the entrepreneurial hat in the days preceding Navratri. They get numerous orders from Bengaluru for garba accessories especially manufactured for the occasion," said Prafful Maun, another member of Shree Indiranagar Gujarati Association.
 
 Samyukt Gujarati Samaj, the oldest association of Gujaratis in Bengaluru, organizes a garba fest at Sardar Patel Bhavan, opposite to Cantonment Railway station. “We feel garba is a spiritual way to pay tribute to goddess Durga. We have kept the tradition of playing garbafolk songs alive," said Girish Ojha of the samaj, which has 1,200 members. The fest starts around 10.30 pm and continues till 12.30 am or 1 am. On weekends, there's no stopping the party-revellers dance the night away, with the festivities stretching up to 4 am.
 
 
 Though Gujaratis are at their glamourous best at public events, back home, they prefer to keep it simple. They fast on all nine days, or on first or last day of Navratri. A `ghat sthapana' or `garba sthapna' (a traditional ritual involving an earthern pot) is done by the family's eldest member for nine days and simple food is eaten.
 
