THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Finally, the public works department ( ) has decided to take measures to check the increasing number of accidents on the   stretch, which has been identified by National Transportation Planning and Research Centre (Natpac) as the second-order black spot in the city.

 Owing to the absence of proper road markings and basic road furniture like sign boards and median reflectors, the six lane road has turned out to be the accident hotspot.
 
 According to the proposal submitted by PWD NH division, the first phase of the project will witness interim measures such as installation of info boards, road markings, reflectors and rumble strips along the Karamana-Vazhimukku stretch.
 
 Various measures like informative and mandatory boards along with median markings are included in the proposal in order to curb the increasing number of accidents. The NH division of PWD has submitted an estimate of Rs 25 lakh to the road safety commission and is awaiting the administrative sanction.
 
 “The first phase will include only short-term measures such as sign boards, median markings and road markings. Cameras and other road furniture will be included only in the second phase. Since we cannot add humps on the national highway, we are planning to include studs and rumble strips as speed-calming measures. We have submitted an estimate based on the quantity of boards and other amenities required and decisions regarding the placement and type of boards will be taken only after the meeting with the road safety commission,” said NH wing executive engineer Bindhu R.
 
 Apparently, the authorities are yet to address the absence of streetlights on the accident-prone stretch. Motor vehicles inspector Brinda Sanil, who conducted a study on the road safety flaws here, has pointed out that the introduction of streetlights should be the first step in the rectification of the flaws. “The six-lane road has been completed using crores of rupees and yet they have failed to include the basic amenities. The opening of the median at the   is unscientific. It comes soon after the slope and turns out to be the major reason for accidents. Lack of streetlights makes the area further accident-prone,” she said.
 
 Meanwhile, the PWD authorities claimed that the onus to include streetlights rests with the city corporation. “We have prepared a proposal only for additional treatments. The local self-governing institutes and corporation are dealing with the provision of streetlights. We have already raised the issue at the district development committee and had dispatched a letter to the corporation authorities regarding the same,” said NH wing superintendent engineer Ansar M.
 
 
