PUNE: The process of bringing about major   in the   system has brought about a rapid change in the functioning of the Film and Television Institute of India. 

 It all began when the academic and governing council members met in January 2016 when a proposal to overhaul the academic system was tabled in order to deal with the backlog by students. The reforms included introduction of semester system, credit based courses, affordable short-term courses and master’s degree equivalence.
 
 While a recent report by the Comptroller and Auditor General of India stated the institute had suffered a loss of nearly Rs 12 crore between 2008-12 due to non-completion of courses by students who were overstaying in hostels, officials said the   of the corrective measures, begun 15 months ago, were evident in the last two semesters which did not see any backlogs.
 
 Bhupendra Kainthola, director,  , said, “The academic and management council members could not meet because of the students’ strike for a long period. However, when they met in January 2016, there were proposals to overhaul the academic pattern. Since this meeting, several changes have been brought about to ensure that the institute learns from its past mistakes and looks at the future in a positive manner.”
 
 Besides introducing the six-month semester pattern, credit system and elective subjects, the syllabus was also changed. “We tried to bring it at par with international standards,” said Kainthola.
 
 Now, students are assessed every six months as against the annual assessment. The academic council also decided to change the syllabus of all the seven courses in June last year. Kainthola said, “These were all milestone reforms in the academic system at the FTII. We are learning from our past mistakes, but because of the semester system and time-bound nature of the course, we are hopeful there will not be major backlogs at the end of the course.”
 
 Kainthola said the students who completed their diploma from FTII were unable to do doctorate or masters in philosophy till last year. In order to pursue doctorate, the students had to do a masters in arts course from elsewhere and then take up doctorate.
 
 “The years spent by them in FTII were almost treated as nil as a result of this. Hence, we took up this issue with the Association of Indian Universities to give the post graduate diploma course offered by FTII equivalence of master’s degree. This was also granted last year, so students will now be able to pursue research, go into teaching or do a doctorate without doing an additional degree course,” Kainthola said.
 
 Short courses were started from May this year with three of them being conducted in Mumbai, four in Delhi and Jammu & Kashmir. The courses would be extended to Haridwar in August and Guwahati in September. The FTII is trying to reach to smaller towns so that youngsters across the country benefit. “Assuming that 4,000 candidates take up the FTII entrance exam and only 110 are selected, it is unfair for the rest to see their dreams crushed. Hence, we thought of these short courses across various cities in the country,” he said.
 
 
