GURUGRAM: The   ( ) has started the land acquisition process to construct the incomplete portion of the   in Delhi that has held up this link between Gurgaon and the   for years.

 To ensure acquisition of land does not face any hurdle, it has issued the notification under the NHAI Act, citing national interest. “Acquisition of land under the NHAI Act is relatively easy,” said an NHAI official. The acquisition process is likely to be completed in the next few months.
 
 “Notification 3(a) of NHAI Act 1956 for acquisition of land for completing Delhi portion of Dwarka expressway has already been issued. Section 3(A) notification is under verification of Competent Authority Land Acquisition (CALA),” said NHAI in reply to an RTI query filed by Sameer Singh. Singh had asked for the status of land acquisition in the Delhi part of the Dwarka expressway.
 
 The Dwarka expressway was envisaged 10 years ago and was to be ready before the   2010. The 27km long road has an 18 km stretch in Gurgaon and 9km in Delhi. It has already missed six deadlines. 
 
 A detailed project report (DPR) for the portion of Dwarka expressway to be built in Delhi is being prepared by the NHAI through consultant AECOM. “A concerted effort is being made by the NHAI, Haryana and Delhi governments for expeditious completion of the project,” said the official. 
 
 Singh said, “A lot of confusion prevails in the minds of most, since Dwarka expressway is expected to cater to the extra traffic. The existing road will not be able to handle that once the new diplomatic enclave (in Dwarka) and Bijwasan railway station come up. To provide connectivity to Dwarka expressway from the Delhi side, around 10 acres of land need to be acquired, that too farmland. The rest is already with DDA.”
 
 The NHAI official said the Delhi government has agreed to transfer land for construction of the highway. “We have notified the land acquisition procedure and it is likely that the land will be acquired in the next six months. Apart from the road, the NHAI will also build roadside amenities and border posts for which too the land is needed,” he said.
 
 The 18km stretch of Dwarka expressway in Gurgaon is being constructed by Huda. Out of this around, 14.5 km has already been constructed and remaining portion in Gurgaon is stuck in two stretches — New Palam Vihar and Kherki Daula — for delay in rehabilitation of oustees.
 
 During the Happening Haryana investor summit this March, Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari had agreed to give it national highway status on the request of the Haryana government.
 
 
