CHANDIGARH: While the Haryana government has promised to withdraw the cases against Jat youths involved in the February 2016 violence, family of finance minister Captain Abhimanyu has stated that there was concrete evidence against those who attacked their residence in Rohtak. 

 Last month, the state government, in an effort to pacify the protesting   (AIJASS), had made several promises like jobs to the kin of those killed in police firing and withdrawal cases registered after Jat agitation for reservation had turned violent in February 2016.
 
 Claiming destruction of Rs 14 crore worth of immovable and movable properties in the riots, the finance minister’s family also asserted that attack on them was “part of a larger conspiracy to demolish all establishments belonging to the family of Captain Abhimanyu”.
 
 These submissions were been made by  , member of Abhimanyu’s family, before the Punjab and Haryana high court in response to a petition filed by Sudeep Kalkal, one of the accused booked for attack on the minister’s house.
 
 Kalkal, along with other accused, had filed a petition before the HC claiming false implication in the case at the behest of the minister. They had also claimed that two FIRs related to the same incident were registered by the police under pressure.
 
 Responding to the charges,   has claimed that petitioners, including Kalkal and others, were present at the place of occurrence on February 19, 2016. “They actively participated in destruction of property by inciting the mob, which made attempt on the life of the family members of Captain   present in the house. The house was set on fire beside other offences of looting and destruction of properties,” Sindhu said.
 
 He has told the court that first FIR on February 20, 2016, was registered on complaint of the in charge of police post outside the minister’s house regarding snatching of their weapon.
 
 Regarding the subsequent FIR, Sindhu claimed that it was registered on his complaint on February 27, 2016, because at that time family was able to give a complaint regarding the losses suffered in the attack.
 
 It has also been claimed by the family that rioters had also taken away with them the double barrel gun of Vartpal Sindhu, brother of Abhimanyu.
 
 “The accused applicant Sudeep Kalkal was identified by the eyewitnesses   and Ram Niwas Hooda present at the place of occurrence and they also got recorded their statement under Section 164 of CrPC. He was arrested on April 4, 2016, as he was found present at the place of occurrence on February 19, 2016, and deeply involved in the commission of offences,” family has claimed before the HC.
 
 The reply from Abhimanyu’s family was filed before the HC on Monday. The case is to now come up for hearing on July 14.
 
 Kalkal, who is confined in Jhajjar jail, has been contending that he was put on the hit list by Rohtak district administration and the state government after he was actively participating in the peaceful protest for Jat reservation. According to him, he was falsely implicated on behest of minister after a period of seven days of the incident.
 
