From   to Sreekrishna Parunthu, from   to  , movies with   and the dark arts have always captivated the Mollywood audience. Though the majority of Malayalam films have been rooted to reality, this genre has enjoyed a perennial fandom. And now, once again, with Mohanlal-starrer  , the fantasy genre of sorcerers and warlocks will make its way to Mollywood, while breaking a few technological barriers along the way.
 
 
 
 VA Shrikumar, who will be directing Odiyan, attributes this fascination for black magic it to the folklores and myths of Kerala. “Many of us grew up listening to the captivating tales narrated by our grandmothers in our villages. So, it becomes part of our memories. And because it’s rooted to our culture, such tales stay relevant even in the modern, urban times,” says the director, whose film traces the background of the Odiyan tribe who lived in the State.
  
 Concurring with Shrikumar is Ananthabhadram director Santosh Sivan, whose film featured Manoj K Jayan in the role of an appalling black magician Digambaran. “During my research for the film, it became evident that Kerala has a history of black magic. Also, belief in a higher power has a major influence in our society. If there’s good, there’s evil, and everything has two sides to it. For instance, a snake when called sarpam is a symbol of fertility while paambu is considered evil,” says the acclaimed director, who was brought up near Mannarasala Temple, devoted to the Hindu serpent gods.
  
 
 
  
 For filmmakers, getting to work in a film that has black magic means creating a world with a different visual language. Director AK Sajan, who has scripted Mammootty’s  , says, “The basic idea behind cinema is to amaze the viewers and for the longest time, we have tapped into this genre for achieving this result. Right from the costumes, backdrops, props to the sets, such themes offer a vast range of visual possibilities.”
  
 He points out that Kerala’s folklore has no dearth of stories featuring sorcerers. “The reason we don’t adapt it much in our films is because of the budget. Films such as Vayanadan Thampan, Sreekrishna Parunthu and My Dear Kuttichathan were big budget projects which broke technological barriers in Malayalam cinema,” he says.
  
 Apart from technological side, the genre also offers room for the scriptwriters to bring in elements to the story that the audience wouldn’t usually buy, says Shibu Chakravarthy, who scripted Mammootty’s Adharvam in 1989.
  
 “When you introduce a sorcerer or a yakshi, people take it for granted that their vengeance or love is more extreme and intense than that of normal people. So, as a scriptwriter, you have the liberty to play with those,” he says.
  
 
 
 Most of the horror films in Malayalam tilt towards the dark arts with the majority of the 70 such Malayalam movies released since Bhargavinilayam featuring at least one scene with a black magician.
 While the films have been scaled up in terms of budget these days, Santosh says it’s a genre that can run on its own without a big star carrying the film.
  
 “Watching horror movies are a high for some audience, just like romcoms and action films. These movies don’t need big actors to bring in the audience; stars just makes the film more interesting,” he says. Santosh also points out that such movies find an audience across Kerala, with movies such as Ananthabhadram and Jayaram’s Aadupuliyattam being released in several other languages as well.
 
 Agreeing with him, Sajan concludes, “There is a section of the audience who are rational. For them, these movies are an escape. Those drenched in faith will be heartened by how such stories show how good triumphs over evil. Hence, it always stays relevant for our audience.”
 
