GANDHINAGAR: Following the order of the   to close liquor shops within 500 metre of highways, the state prohibition and excise department issued immediate closure notices to 12 liquor shops in hotels on various highways. The fate of the liquor shop in Courtyard by  , however, remains in balance, as hotel authorities claimed it to be just outside the 500-metre zone from the highway. The shop remained open on Monday. Sources said the roads and buildings department will again measure the distance of the outlet from the highway before taking a call.

  B Kumar (IAS), director, prohibition and excise, said, “Following the Supreme Court order we have issued closure notices to all liquor shops on state highways. There are 12 liquor permit shops that we have closed.” 
 
 “There is a technical dispute regarding Courtyard by Marriott, so we have written to the roads & buildings department for technical measurement. If it’s within the limit we will get it closed,’’ said Kumar adding, “Any hotel violating the order will have to face legal action.’’
 
 According to available official information, Courtyard by Marriott ( ) was also to been given notice along with the other 12 shops. However, the hotel claimed in writing that their hotel is beyond 500 metre from SG Road and that the SC order was not applicable to them.
 
 S B Vasava, secretary, roads & buildings department said, “We will study the order of the SC and that of the prohibition and excise department. We are yet to receive written instructions.’’
 
 The number of liquor shops have gone up from 26 to 58 in just two years. Most pending applications for new liquor shops in hotels were cleared after May 2014   elections. In January 2014, there were only 26 permitted liquor shops which has now doubled to 58. In Ahmedabad, till April 2014, there were only five liquor shops. Between May 2014 and January 2016, another eight new liquor shops received permissions. Of these, two shops were allowed to come up almost within 500 metres of Sabarmati Ashram.
 
