Mumbai: With four days to go before   Sons holds its extraordinary general meeting to oust   as a director of the holding company, his family-held firms moved the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal ( ) in Delhi on Thursday to restrain the Tatas. The appeal is against an order of the National Company Law Tribunal ( ) in Mumbai, which did not grant a stay on the February 6 EGM at Tata Sons.

 The appeal filed by Cyrus Investment and another Mistry family company will be heard on Friday. It is listed at number 18-20 before the NCLAT chairperson Justice S J Mukhopadhaya’s court. The NCLT had on January 31 adjourned to February 13 the hearing of a petition filed by the Mistry firms against   for alleged mismanagement and oppression of their rights as minority shareholders.
 
 The firms had sought interim relief against the Feb 6 EGM citing urgency. But the Mumbai tribunal made it clear that there was no stay granted in either of its earlier orders passed on December 22 last year or January 18 in a contempt plea filed by the Mistry firms. C A Sundaram, counsel for Cyrus Investment, and Janak Dwarkadas, Mistry’s counsel, had protested in the court hearing that the status was not clear and hence they wanted a stay. “Heavens would not fall if a stay is granted,” Dwarkadas had said. But the NCLT bench had observed that it was legally understood that when no specific relief is granted it is understood to mean that it was refused.
 
 A day after receiving the NCLT nine-page order copy, Mistry firms in a 128-page appeal filed through Delhi-based law firm Jaitley & Bakshi claimed that the tribunal was in “extreme hurry’’ to hear the petition. Their appeal also said “strictures’’ passed by the tribunal were unwarranted. The Mumbai tribunal had called their counsel’s insistence on an order on maintainability issue before arguing the main plea as “disobedience of earlier court orders’’.
 
 The grounds of challenge as stated in the appeal are that the tribunal erred on law points too. The appeal questioned the findings of NCLT, which in its order, had said that “maintainability point can be raised at any point.” 
 
 “The petitioner is supposed to argue on main plea and affidavits. But we regret to say that despite repeated requests, petitioners counsel Sundaram has failed to argue on main plea and asked for an order of waiver to be passed,’’ the NCLT had said.
 
 
