LUCKNOW In its 15-day   programme that starts from Wednesday, the   will not stop at anything to reach out to citizens in every category. In Lucknow district, focus is on influential Muslim men and women.

 After drawing flak from all quarters for ignoring the minorities and not giving ticket to a single Muslim during Lok Sabha 2014 and Vidhan Sabha 2017 elections, talking to influential personalities from the community is aimed at winning them over. Gurudwaras and Jain temples are on the list too in the drive to woo voters from other religious groups. Saints and seers, maths, temples and Baudh vihars will also be visited by   workers during the drive. 
 
 In an effort to emerge as a party catering to all sections, BJP also plans to contact poets, writers, folk singers and artists and sportspersons. To reach out to the deprived, workers will also meet differently abled citizens.
 
 There are 38 categories of people who will be contacted during the drive, including insurance agents, barbers, cobblers and washermen who are known to have easy access to homes and it is being deemed they might be a bridge to a broad voter base. 
 
 The mass connect programme from May 10 to May 25 has two goals—to woo voters ahead of municipal elections and to win over maximum number before 2019 general elections, said city unit president Mukesh Sharma.
 
 With the aim of connecting with the last man in the society, party workers will meet doctors, engineers and CAs, lawyers, teachers, journalists, government employees and those employed in the service sector along with senior citizens, ex-armymen, farmer leaders, student leaders and traders. Women’s organisations, resident welfare associations, NGOs, cooperatives, Puja and   committees also figure on the list. 
 
 Party workers will inform people on Central schemes. “We will ask people if they have applied under any scheme or if they faced problems in doing so,” said Lucknow city general secretary Pushkar Shukla. The feedback and suggestions received from people will be sent to central leadership. 
 
 Lucknow city will be divided into 159 sectors for better implementation of the15-day programme that involves holding blood donation camps, seminars, doing mass plantations and visiting every house at the booth level under ‘Mera ghar BJP ka ghar’ programme. 
 
