SAIFAI (ETAWAH): Confident of victory, Samajwadi Party patriarch   said on Sunday   would become chief minister of UP for a second time and his brother, Akhilesh’s uncle  , would be a member of his Cabinet.

 Mulayam’s statement is being seen as an attempt to brush aside reports that Shivpal is planning to float a new party after the election results are announced on March 11.
 
 “Samajwadi Party poorn bahumat se jeetegi aur Akhilesh phir se mukhya mantri banega (SP will be voted back to power with a thumping majority and Akhilesh will become the CM again),” Mulayam told the media after voting in Saifai. Asked about the role of Shivpal in the new government, Mulayam said he would certainly be part of the state Cabinet. About Akhilesh’s veiled attack on his uncle, Shivpal, at a recent campaign rally, Mulayam said: “That was meant for some local party workers who had harmed the party.”
 
 Mulayam’s statement came barely an hour after Akhilesh Yadav went to cast his vote in favour of Shivpal Yadav, the SP candidate from Jaswantnagar assembly seat in Etawah, the hometown of the Yadav clan. The third phase of voting in the UP assembly polls took place on Sunday.
 
 Talking to the media, Akhilesh, however, refrained from taking his uncle’s name, preferring to refer to him only as the SP candidate. “I have voted for the SP candidate,” he said, walking out of the Abhinav Vidyalaya polling station in Saifai with his cousin, Badaun MP Dharmendra Yadav, in tow.
 
 Akhilesh also dismissed reports that he had asked party workers to teach a lesson to all those who had tried to sabotage the party and that his attack was aimed at his uncle, Shivpal. “I said it in another assembly constituency and it was meant for someone else … how can you connect the two things?” Akhilesh said. At a public meeting in Etawah, Akhilesh had said people he trusted then most had backstabbed him and created a rift between him and his father, Mulayam Singh Yadav.
 
 Shivpal Yadav said he had forgiven Akhilesh for all that he had said. Asked to comment on Akhilesh’s explanation that his comments during the Etawah rally were not aimed at his uncle, Shivpal said the issue was closed.
 
 Reacting to Mulayam’s statement that Akhilesh would be chief minister again and Shivpal a member of his Cabinet, he said: “If Netaji has said so, then I will accept it.” Asked about the level of responsibility that he would like to share in the government, Shivpal said it would be a bit premature to comment on such issues: “Yeh sab to gyarah March ko chunao parinaam aane ke baad ki baat hai, (These are matters for after the election results on March 11).”
 
 Shivpal and Akhilesh had been locked in a struggle for supremacy and control of the SP. Shivpal consequently lost the post of party state president and his place in the Akhilesh Cabinet, where he had held over half a dozen key portfolios. Named as the SP candidate from Jaswantnagar after Akhilesh took the reins of the party as national president, Shivpal had triggered a controversy a fortnight ago when he had said he would float a new party once the elections were over. He had modified his statement later and said he would consult “Netaji (Mulayam)” and do whatever he said.
 
