PANAJI: A parody Twitter account mocks Khalid Jamil for being delusional but the   coach is really under no delusions when he says that his side is challenging for the I-League title.
 
  “I think we will all be disappointed if we don’t emerge as champions. We’ve come a long way and with just three matches left to be played, our chances are as good as anyone else,” Jamil told TOI on Thursday.
  
  With three games left to be played, Indian football is about to experience a miracle; a miracle that may not attract the same attention as when Leicester City stunned the world to win the Premier League crown last year. But an achievement no less dazing.
  
  The Aizawl story is team spirit and underdog positivity at its best.
  
  “It’s not just people from Mizoram, or from the North East who are backing us. The country is behind us. They want us to become champions. They want to believe that if Aizawl FC can do it, so can everyone. Our triumph will be good for everyone; for the neutrals, for the I-League, for Indian football,” said Jamil, whose team is tied on points with   at the top of the table.
  
  So what makes Aizawl’s title chase so special? Let’s start with Jamil himself: he was shown the door by   after a decade-long association, starting with the under-19 team. Mumbai FC wanted to challenge for higher places and not just save relegation each year. Santosh   was brought in but has now been sacked, Jamil is challenging for the title and Mumbai FC are almost certain of being relegated.
  
  What about Aizawl? They were relegated last year; some say unfairly since they finished above DSK Shivajians, the corporate club who are immune from relegation. And had it not been for the pull-out of three Goan clubs – Salgaocar FC, Dempo SC and   – Aizawl wouldn’t have been here in the first place.
  
  The team’s budget too is one-sixth of most other teams and their players – except for three of Jamil’s favourites, including goalkeeper Albino   from Goa – are all locals. Significantly, none of the Aizawl players found a place in Stephen Constantine’s 30-member Indian probables list.
  
  “We have to stay positive. The next match (against   on Saturday) is crucial and then there is the potentially title-deciding clash against Mohun Bagan at home. I must give credit where it is due: the boys have been fantastic.
  
  “Of course, there is pressure on the boys. They understand what they can achieve but they are reacting positively. Everyone is enjoying this pressure,” said the Kuwait-born former India international.
  
  Aizawl FC are placed second on the I-League table with 30 points, the same as leaders Mohun Bagan. East Bengal are third, three points behind but the race is now clearly between the mighty Bagan and their unlikely challengers.
  
  It wasn’t always like this though. Jamil admits he only wanted his relatively unknown side to stave off relegation but as the boys started collecting points, the belief simply grow. “It was gradual,” said Jamil pointing to a solitary-goal win away against DSK Shivajians on March 7 that finally made them believe they could go all the way.
  
  Should Jamil and his boys eventually script the unlikeliest of triumphs in Indian football, the whole country would feel inspired, and the I-League, set to be killed later this year, will die a heroic death.
