Nagpur: City police, used to dealing with hardcore goons and gangsters, are now racking their brains on how to deal with underage offenders legally termed ‘juveniles in conflict with law’. As law does not permit criminal justice system to treat minors harshly, police can do little other than preliminary questioning and later chargesheeting the crimes in which persons below 18 years of age are accused. There is a steep rise of 65% in cases having minor accused from 2014 to 2016 and a stupendous 220% rise in cases of murder in which at least one accused was between 14-17 years of age.  Data with TOI show there were 185 cases involving children in 2014. These increased to 229 in 2015 and further to 306 in 2016. In the same period, murders involving a juvenile went up from five in 2014 to 16 last year. Cases of attempt to murder by minors rose from four in 2014 to 14 in 2016. Rapes by juveniles, though most of them involve love affairs, also increased from nine in 2014 to 14 in 2016. Cases of hurt and serious assaults by minors increased from 34 in 2014 to 67 last year. In 2015, there was a dip in such cases with number at 20. Cases of riots too increased from seven in 2014 to 15 last year.  If the increase in body offences by juveniles left the cops in a tizzy, the striking rise of property crimes by them has posed a tricky challenge to the department. Theft cases by minors increased from 49 in 2014 to 79 in the last year. Cases of burglaries and robberies too increased steeply.  Vishakha Gupte, chairperson of Child Welfare Committee (CWC) of Nagpur and Bhandara districts, claimed one of the reasons for this was hardened criminals have begun utilising minors so as to weaken the case against them as law does not permit harsh treatment to anyone under 18 years of age. The other factors, she said, were poverty, irresponsible behaviour of parents and lack of awareness of consequences. Gupte also blamed exposure through TV and mobiles. “Such exposure at an age not adequate enough to interpret it maturely also are resulting in children taking wrong steps,” she said. “We can hold social media responsible for increasing number juveniles committing sexual assault and harassment,” said Gupte. She said creating awareness at school level and various sensitization programmes regarding their rights and duties were crucial to curb the trend. An experienced source dealing with Juvenile Justice Board where such minors are tried said it was poor interpretation of the law by hardened goons that leads them to involve children in crime to get a benefit later. “Dragging a minor into an offence results in no benefit to criminals but it is a trend today,” said the expert.  He said most minors were repeat offenders having crime records. “There is a system of counselling by the probation officers who are also present at the time of bail but ambience of certain localities and circumstance push them back into crime frequently,” said an experienced source. “The reason for rising numbers of thefts and robberies is due to need of quick cash,” he said.  Chhaya Gurav, programme manager for Indian Centre for Integrated Development and also co-ordinator for NGO Childline in north Nagpur, also blamed exposure to objectionable contents in various media, including social for doing the maximum damage. Psychotherapist Anupama Gadkari said inconsistent parental practices led to a situation where a child failed to develop discerning ability to judge right and wrong. “The minors break law compelled by desire for instant gratification. The media’s glorification of violenace and other vices also play a role,” she said. Addl CP (in-charge), crime, Ranjan Kumar Sharma stated poor parenting was main reason why number of juveniles in crime was rising at such an alarming rate. “Weak socio-economic condition propels an underage towards crime. In addition, there is peer pressure. The need for high life and things like having a girlfriend or taking up addictions increase their financial need. This forces a minor to tread on the other side of the law,” he said. “Family needs to be aware of the whereabouts of minors all the time,” he said. Sharma said juveniles were treated as victims of various forces including compulsions of poverty or broken families. “We generally involve child protection officials during questioning of a juvenile offender. We involve families in extracting information from minors,” he said. He stated the correctional systems too must improve with proper facilities at shelter homes.