Ludhiana: Singer turned politician, Satwinder Bitti, who is contesting elections on the Congress ticket from Sahnewal constituency, on Friday, accused a Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) worker of distributing ghee and other freebies to woo voters in the constituency. Bitti lodged a complaint with the returning officer (RO) of the constituency and also submitted a video and other proof to corroborate her claim. Later in the day, a few area residents protested against her and said she got an innocent person wrongfully detained by the police. 

 They said they were holding a langar and Saraswati Puja, where sweets were being made and Bitti, along with her supporters, disrupted the celebrations and stopped the langar of sweets. They said they fled from the spot with canisters of ghee being used for cooking and her supporters also misbehaved with elderly people present on the spot.
 
 Bitti dismissed the allegations and said, “A SAD worker was caught red handed by our team when he was distributing free ghee to people of a locality in Ram Nagar near Chandigarh Road. His acts were caught on tape and he was handed over to the police. But several SAD-BJP supporters led by an Akali councillor reached the spot and tried to instigate people by spreading rumours that I stopped the puja and langar. The ceremony was over 2 to 3 hours before we caught the Akali worker,” she said. 
 
 She also said they handed over all the proof, along with a video of the person, in which he allegedly admitted to distributing freebies at the behest of influential leaders. When contacted, Dalwinderjit Singh, RO, Sahnewal constituency said, “We received a complaint from a Congress candidate today, after which a team was dispatched to the spot which is investigating the matter. Once they conclude their probe, necessary action will be taken.”
 
 Sharanjit Singh Dhillon, MLA and SAD candidate from Sahnewal said, "This is an entirely fabricated story scripted by the Congress candidate with the intention of maligning our party. Poor people organised Saraswati Puja and brought refined oil and other stuff to prepare sweets. Before they could start the langar, Bitti and her supporters reached the spot and created ruckus there. They even used derogatory remarks against people and misbehaved with the woman sarpanch, getting her husband detained under false charges. We are going to lodge a police complaint against Bitti and the others involved in the harassment of people and hurting of their religious sentiments”
 
 
