NEW DELHI: The crime branch of   has arrested two men and busted an organised extortion ring in which one of them posed as a senior political leader and extorted money from ministers and bureaucrats.

 The imposter, Sanjay Tiwari, was arrested after he tried to extort money from Jharkhand land and revenue minister Amar Kumar Bauri by posing as BJP national general secretary Ram Madhav, asking him to contribute funds for the upcoming elections. Tiwari even sent a person to Jharkhand Bhavan on January 24, who met the minister and demanded money.
 
 The accused worked as a liaison till 2014, but was jobless since the new government came to power at the Centre, which made him take to extortion. He has supposedly extorted money from a dozen bureaucrats and politicians posing as PS to Congress president Sonia Gandhi and others, the details of which are being gathered.
 
 In his complaint, the personal secretary to the minister said that he had been receiving calls and the caller had been asking for money for party funds.
 
 “A special team led by DCP Madhur Verma and ACP Sanjay Sehrawat was formed to crack the case. Investigations indicated the involvement of professionals. The accused were trailed manually and technically and finally arrested from ITO. Tiwari’s aide, Gaurav Sharma, has been nabbed as well,” Ravindra Yadav, joint commissioner (crime), said.
 
 During sustained interrogation, Sharma and Tiwari revealed that they would first meticulously research the target and then lure them with temptations of tickets, greater role in the party or other favours. Tiwari would pose as a person with clout from a national political party — mainly BJP or the Congress — and promised to get their files cleared.
 
 “He would speak with such confidence and attitude that many victims actually forwarded him their credentials and resumes to lobby for them. He then started demanding money on the pretext of party donations and election funds,” Yadav said.
 
 He would never collect the amount in person and would instead get it collected through staff employed by Sharma. The employee would often be unaware of the racket.
 
 “Once the staffer reached the victim’s office, he would call Tiwari or Sharma from his mobile phone and connect him to them. Once Tiwari confirmed his identity, the victim would hand over the money. Sharma claimed that he would look for youths looking for jobs outside private offices and befriend them. After a few days, he would offer them a job at the office of a senior minister,” said Madhur Verma, DCP (crime).
 
 The youths were even groomed and employed for different jobs, including meeting the aides of the minister to collect the extortion money. Tiwari and Sharma claimed that they were in the process of extorting money from several other political leaders and government officials. The men are in police custody to verify the identities of the other victims.
 
