BENGALURU: Rekindling citizens’ hopes of having a say in civic decisions, the   on April 25 directed the BBMP to constitute ward committees in a month. When the court hears the matter on May 10, the Palike has to submit the list of members for each committee. But the power to choose the members lies with councillors. And it’s not surprising that they have selected persons who owe allegiance to them or their party.

 According to Section 74(b) of the Municipal Structure Act, 1988, a   is a team of citizens from various categories. The elected representative is their chairperson, and has to act as the liaison officer between the municipalty and the community. 
 
 NR Ramesh, former corporator of  , said these are not ward committees but ‘corporator committees’. “Certain criteria, including literacy levels, categories of members from various sectors and representation of women, have to be followed while selecting members. But none of the corporators is doing so. They select people based on their political allegiance so that there is no opposition to their decisions. The committee is supposed to meet once a week but the members don’t meet and only sign the register,” he said. This not only dilutes the whole purpose of having ward committees but also makes it difficult for citizens to decide what is good or bad for them.
 
 Mayor   said corporators have finalized the list for all 198 wards and it will be submitted to the court. After ratification by the court, BBMP will issue a notification to make these committees functional.
 
 The power may lie with councillors, but activists are ensuring that citizens’ rights are not violated.  , executive trustee of CIVIC, said, “I have been urging resident welfare associations to send their applications and become members of ward committees. The urban poor must also be represented well but the act does not make such detailed provisions for trade unions and organizations working for the urban poor. We are trying to sensitize some groups to send their applications to BBMP.”
 
 ‘Make your voice heard’
 
 Even if one is not a member of the committee, one still has the right to attend meetings, says  , founding president of Citizens Action Forum. “Anybody residing in a ward can attend the meetings of his/her respective ward committee, record/videograph the proceedings and share the information with others for publicity or to gain consensus. It is a known fact that for corporators this is a political game but citizens have to make their voice heard,” he said.
 
 
