GOA: Having put retirement rumours to rest, Goa’s longest-serving chief minister and senior-most Congress leader, Pratapsingh Rane, talks about the party’s transition from its defeat in the   to this year’s election which is critical for the party’s revival.

  Nearly a year ago, Congress had promised  , but the last list came out on the final day of filing nominations.
 
 (After a long pause) The party organization saw a change of guard. Subhash Shirodkar resigned and Luizinho Faleiro was appointed. 
 
 Well, sitting MLAs had relatively enough time. As for new candidates, it’s something like cannibalism. Goa being a small state, everyone wants tickets and wants to be an MLA. If one is given a ticket, three others are unhappy and rebel. This is happening in other major parties too. 
 
 As the main selector on the Congress selection team, are you happy with the choice of candidates? How many seats will the party win?
 
 Yes, Luizinho and me. Satisfied? Yes, more or less. 
 
 Over 20 seats. We also have an understanding with other parties like Goa Forward Party and Atanasio Monserrate’s United Goans Party.
 
 Your state president said from Day One that there would be no alliance for the ensuing polls.
 
 In my view, it’s a strategy. At an early stage, if you talk about alliances, it gives an impression of weakness. Alliance is decided by top hierarchy. 
 
 Congress had a golden opportunity of posing as the best alternative due to anti-incumbency against the BJP. Why did your party dilly-dally over selecting candidates?
 
 Not really. They wake up at the last moment. Typical of parties. When one loses an election, he goes into hibernation – into a slumber. Then there are many claimants for one seat.
 
 Is factionalism a major issue for the Congress? Not being seen as a formidable force to unseat BJP?
 
 I don’t see any faction in the Congress as we were in the opposition for the last four and half years.
 
 Will you not stake claim to the chief minister’s post if Congress gets a chance to form the government?
 
 No, I have never staked claim for any seat. Or post. Whatever the party says, I will do. I led the party to victory and I didn’t stake claim in 2007. I was made speaker twice. In 1999, I was made speaker during the party’s senior leader Madhavrao Scindia’s time. In 2007 again, I was asked to be speaker.
 
 Now, the priority is for the party to win and then decide this part.
 
 But you are the most senior.
 
 Yes, but the party could prefer a young face. 
 
 
 
 
 Our manifesto committee will decide. Our focus will be on employment.   among educated people is a major concern for Goa. We need to tackle it. We need to get good industries that will give jobs to our educated youth. I’ve addressed the World Economic Forum in the past. Good investment is needed. There’s high taxation in Goa and people can’t be burdened more. There has to be rationalization of taxes. I remember, I had reduced taxes on vehicles and our revenue shot up like never before.
 
 With BJP going to polls on a development plank, Congress appears to be gaining mileage from the resentment against the saffron party.
 
 What kind of development are you talking about? Indecisiveness is good governance?! Look at the Regional Plan 2021. It takes you (BJP) four years to decide what needs to be done. Despite having RP 2021, you have kept socio-economic development on hold. The plan was done under the supervision of Charles Correa. Implementing it would have been a tribute to the great personality, a world renowned architect. It’s a shame. I made two plans. RP is a socio-economic one. During my time, we made sure that there were zones for industries in almost every taluka. That’s why you don’t see smoke emanating from chimneys just anywhere.
 
 Derailing projects or not completing major works is development? I built the road to Belagavi, the new short cut, to reach the destination in little more than 1.5 hours. The work on the Old Goa bypass which started in 2012-13 is still not finished. 
 
 The ruling party is only voter-minded. How to get votes from everything we do is the objective. They talk about agriculture. If their claims of increase in paddy production is to be believed, how come you see an increasing amount of land turning fallow? You talk of Swachch Bharat, but we know the ground reality. Only tall claims. As far as sanitation is concerned, which is talked about in a big way, I want to say that we started it in 1980-81.
 
 How is the Congress different? You’ll criticize the BJP for their failures to get votes. 
 
 We don’t make false promises. We don’t assure what we can’t do. We promise what we can implement. Our aim is not to fool the people and cheat them. We have ruled the state for many years and done a lot for Goa. We have not bragged about it. We were the first state to have Right to Information Act.
 
