NAGPUR: There is a definite erosion in the faith that people once put in   and a certain sourness has crept into the relation between   and doctors, felt almost all the participants of the TOI Debate. The panel, consisting of doctors, medical administrators, students and also representatives of the public, also agreed that steps had to be taken immediately to mitigate the situation. 

 Set against the background of recent cases of violence against doctors, the debate covered the complex relationship that now exists between patients, their kin and medical fraternity, if the trust between them had broken down, the reasons behind it, the responses by various stakeholders and the way forward.
 
 Dr Prakash Deo, public health specialist and retired international civil service officer, quickly dived into the details of the issue and said the reasons for violence differed a bit in government   from that in private ones. “Most of these incidents happen in the casualty ward in the government hospitals, especially during the night when there are only residents and interns on duty who do not have enough support of their seniors,” he said.
 
 “In the private hospitals, the attitude of the public is that they are paying a fat amount, so the result ought to be positive. But in the medical profession, we can only guarantee our efforts, but not results. This is not understood by the public,” added Dr YS Deshpande, president-elect IMA, Maharashtra.
 
 Both the doctors agreed that an area of concern was communication between doctors and patients. “There needs to be a training module in which young doctors are instructed about dealing with such situation and also about general communication and counselling skills,” said Dr Deo. 
 
 Aamir Rangoonwala, an entrepreneur, was of the opinion that lack of staff in government hospitals was one of the issues. Agreeing with Rangoonwala, Dr Amol Dhage, resident doctor,   (GMCH) said, “We need more paramedical staff who can assist us in the casualty ward.”
 
 Sakina Ezzi, an accounts manager, said the lack of proper infrastructure also made the patients and their kin not have a soft spot for doctors. “More medical colleges are a must,” she said. Long waiting hours, a feeling of not being cared for and perceived issues of diagnosis of diseases fuel attacks on doctors, felt Pratima Lokhande, an assistant professor of law. 
 
 Taking cue from Lokhande’s statement, Dr Deo said the attitudinal change among people was also one of the reasons that had affected doctor-patient relationship. “Dr Google is a big hurdle. People read up on the Internet and think they know everything about a disease and its cure. But they don’t understand that medicine is not maths and here one plus one is not always two,” he said. 
 
 Dr Deshpande added, “It is not for the patients to demand certain investigations. But now, many doctors suggest many tests out of fear. Patients should have faith in their doctors.” He also lamented the fact that though a special law was enacted in 2010 to protect doctors from such attacks, its implementation had been lax. “Even charge sheet has not been filed in many of 54 cases registered under it,” he said.
 
 Speaking on the issue of security, Dr PG Dixit, officiating dean of the   Government Medical College (IGGMC), said the recent boost in security which the government had proposed was a positive sign. “But security guards need to be trained, otherwise they only end up opening and locking the doors. Even the police on the campus are not very proactive,” said Dr Nikhil Dhimole, an intern at GMCH. He also added that the failure of primary and secondary health care centres put a lot of pressure on the government college hospitals, increasing the pressure on the doctors. 
 
 Dr Deo said many issues could be solved if the head of the institute was proactive. Agreeing, Dr Dixit said, most administrative issues could be resolved at a local level and a lot could be accomplished. “Earlier, the senior doctors used to talk to the patents and their kin at least once a day and apprise them of the situation. This helped a lot. Now, this does not happen,” he said.
 
 All panellists agreed on the need of socio-medical workers at ground level, forming a bridge between the medical fraternity and patients. They also said awareness about laws would act as a deterrent for people who resort to violence in hospitals. Ezzi spoke strongly in favour of restricting the number of people accompanying a patient, to avoid situations getting out of hand.
 
