LUCKNOW: If you thought the SP catchline “UP ko yeh saath pasand hai” (UP loves this tie-up) was peppy, you weren’t the only one. BJP thought so too. It came up with a clone — “UP ko yeh saat pasand hai” (UP likes these seven) — stuck it on a poster and placed photos of its top seven, including PM Modi and  . The SP dismissed the BJP slogan as a copy of their “original”, coined to focus on the Akhilesh-Rahul bonding.

 With UP drawing closer to the fi rst phase of polling on February 11, the slogans war too has hit fever pitch. The BJP, playing on its 2014 tagline “Ab ki baar, Modi sarkar”, the party came up with a near repeat: “Ab ki baar, 300 ke paar”. Then the slogan factory hit top gear with punchier lines: “Saath aayein, parivartan layein, kamal khilayein” (Join hands for change, let the lotus bloom) and “Do baatein kabhi na bhool,   aur kamal ka phool” (Never forget the lotus or Modi).
 
 In the SP camp, aware that the family battle could play on the voter’s mind, a slogan extols Mulayam thus: “Akhilesh ka jalwa qaayam hai, uska baap Mulayam hai”. This actually is a tweak of an earlier jingle: “Jiska jalwa qayam hai, uska naam Mulayam hai”. This version the party used in 2014 with Mulayam at the helm. With   centre stage, the party is singing: “Vikas ka pahiya, Akhilesh bhaiya” (Wheels of progress, brother Akhilesh). Sticking to its “positive campaign”, the SP refrains from targeting the opposition, unlike the BJP and the BSP.
 
 The BSP, which shunned social media till 2014, is coming online with a vengeance,   the central theme. “Betiyon ko muskurane Do, Behenji ko aane do” (let daughters smile, make way for Mayawati). The BSP takes a dig at rivals: “Kamal, cycle, panja hoga kinaare, UP chalega hathi ke saharey” (Cycle, hand and lotus will be set aside, UP will run on the elephant’s power).
 
 The Congress, which started with “27 saal UP behal” to describe the state of affairs in the state since its last government, withdrew the slogan after its SP alliance.
 
 Now its switched to “UP ke ladke”(the UP boys) pitting Rahul and Akhilesh against “baharwale” (the outsider) Modi.
 
 
