VARANASI: BJP workers will tell the story of   to schoolchildren on the eve of PM's birthday on Saturday. The local unit of the party has selected 129 primary schools in PM's constituency to celebrate his birthday.

 “We believe that the PM is carrying forward the ideology of Swami Vivekananda,“ Kashi Kshetra BJP president Laxman Acharya said. The PM's birthday falls on Sunday (September 17). It has been decided to celebrate the occasion with schoolchildren on Saturday.
 
 “We will go to the children, spend some time with them, give sweets and stationery, tell them about the views and action of the PM,“ Acharya said. It is for the first time that such an event is being organised in primary schools. “We cannot leave the primary schools on government machinery only. The BJP's public representatives are adoping schools for their better upkeep and facilities,“ he said. These schools faced negligence for years, he alleged.
 
 He said that the party has selec ted 129 schools, 25 in Cantt area, 22 in   area, 20 in Varanasi South assembly area, 34 in Rohaniya assembly area and 28 in Sevapuri assembly area. The celebration will be held between 8am and 11am. It is mandatory to arrange PM's photograph during celebration, he said.
 
 Several other programmes have also been planned to celebrate PM's birthday. With a motto `Swachhata hi seva hai', the BJP workers will conduct an extensive cleanliness drive at 825 places in PM's constituency. The cleanliness drive will continue from September 17 to October 2. Free health camps will be held at 115 places while 34 prominent crossings will be decorated and illuminated from September 17 to 23 till the departure of PM, who is expected to visit the city on September 22 and 23.
 
 The women will light `deep' made of wheat flour and perform deep daan in Ganga at 67 ghats in the evening and a programme based on the theme of `Beti Bachao-Beti Padhao' will be held at Assi Ghat on September 16.
 
 The cleanliness drive will also be conducted at 11,655 places in 71 assembly constituencies in 15 districts of Kashi Kshetra involving over 1 lakh party workers.
 
