No two ways about it. The six-month-old Asian gastropub   has hit the sweet spot. Many sweet spots, actually. Food. Drinks. Ambience (Please note that I have not included service). And guiding me to it is the great gourmet,  . He not only cooks brilliantly, checks out new restaurants but also has dined twice (incognito) at Koko with his creative and charming wife Indira, who gives us her vegetarian take on the food. Not only do I learn all about Anil’s passion for cooking with Kashundi, growing his own veggies but also his magnificent NGO work as advisor to The Bombay Community Public Trust, which teaches English in the free vernacular schools and over 2,50,000 school children are benefiting. We chat and nibble our way through Anil and Indira’s tried and tested favourites.

 
 
 Walk through the cacophonic and perpetually under construction, Kamala Mills and into this uber cool space bristling with high energy. Be it the 100-foot-long island bar or the Chinese warriors that come into play with shadow art or the charming patterned floor.
 
 
 
 The talented Chinese chef Eric Sifu (who has honed his skills in ‘Din Tai Fung’ and other great restaurants) and world-renowned UK-based mixologist Dimitri Lezinska stir and cook up magic. Cantonese and cold Japanese dishes tango with many Asian-flavoured cocktails (with yuzu, seaweed, soya sauce, Matcha tea, parmesan and white chocolate, etc).
 Go for the dim sum juicily plump with scallops, prawns and vegetarian options. We recommend the KOKO special sushi, silken soft with mayo and topped with crunchy tempura batter. Pork belly buffs delight in the crispy pork belly brilliantly slow roasted and served with plum sauce and the lusciously braised pork belly paired with morning glory, velvetty Shimeji mushrooms and fried black rice. Thinly sliced, fresh Salmon Carpaccio, prawns in xo sauce and plenty for veggies, too. (Must try the crunchy Lotus root).
 
 
 
 Though our table had attentive service, slow service has been the common refrain of many other diners. The print on the menu is too faint. The desserts too humdrum, oversweet and predictable and the Cantonese Chicken is lacklustre and avoidable.
 
 
 
 Two great partnerships work magic here… that of the two brothers (Koko means elder brother, too), Ryan and  . They’re third generation restaurateurs with gourmet genes. Their father Henry Tham’s and grandfather Mon Yiu Tham’s (of the iconic Mandarin) genius shines through. Stir into this, Chef Eric Sifu and mixologist Dimitri Lezinska’s talents for inspired cocktails and Cantonese and sushi and sashimi. Top it off with the oomph and rocking vibe of Ryan and Keenan’s ‘Trilogy’ and ‘The Good Wife’ and voila! High energy KOKO rocks the night, too. KOKO brings playfulness, modernism and global sophistication to Mumbai’s restaurant scene. Kudos KOKO!
 P.S. I’m definitely going back to try the Wagyu tenderloin Carpaccio and am awaiting for the VFM lunch meals, especially Hainanese Chicken Rice, about to be introduced very soon.
 
