KOLKATA: The IITs have asked   on the   to complete their intake process by July 15 this year. This will allow candidates to either opt for jobs or take up post-graduate courses at the IITs, thus reducing the number of MTech and MSc seats going vacant in the  .

 Last year, several MTech seats fell vacant after students who had already taken admission grabbed job offers from the PSUs. At IIT-Kharagpur, which has 1,539 PG seats, 493 went vacant in 2014-15.
 
 The IITs begin their PG classes on August 1 while the PSUs start the recruitment process in September and bring out their list of  . The process sometimes drags on till December. The nudge to the PSUs came during a meeting at IIT Mumbai earlier this month and attended by the directors of all the IITs and officials of at least 14 PSUs. “All colleges are bound by a   directive to start classes before August 1. So we requested the PSUs to finish their recruitment process by July 15,“ confirmed Devang Khakhar, director of IIT-Bombay. The IITs also proposed the setting up of a common portal for offers that have been approved by the HRD ministry.
 
 “The portal will have a list of names of all candidates with valid GATE scores. Offers from the IITs, NITs and even PSUs will have to be given to the students through the website. 
 
 The candidate will have to select one offer and immediately release all others that he may have been holding. This will allow us to reduce vacancies in MTech,“ said Jagadish Kumar, dean of academic programmes at IIT-Madras. He added that the portal can start operation this year itself if the government gives the go-ahead.
 
 By the time the PSUs come out with their recruitment results, PG classes at the IITs are well on their way. “Several students leave the MTech courses to take up jobs. Yet, wait-listed candidates who are genuinely interested in taking up the PG courses are unable to take admission,“ said a senior IIT-Kharagpur official.
 
 A PSU official said that in 2016 they had recruited over 7,300 graduates on the basis of GATE scores and the selection process had continued for 58 working days. “On a given day we don't want to interview more than 35 students because that would compromise the quality of selection. We feel the candidate should get at least 2025 minutes before the board,“ he said explaining the delay.
 
 An IIT official pointed out that with the same pool of candidates being interviewed by several PSUs, some companies intentionally delay the selection process.
 
