PANCHKULA: The police on Friday added two more names to the list of the ac cused in the bouncer mur der case, tak ing the total to five while widening its probe.

 Names of Munish Kumar, alias  , and Satnam Singh came to the fore when crime investigation agency staff headed by inspector Narender Singh produced Amandeep Singh, alias Mani, and  , alias Laadi, who allegedly shot dead Amit Sharma, alias Meet, outside Saketri temple on May 8, before the court of additional chief judicial magistrate Dr Prateek Dhonchak.
 
 Police are tight-lipped about the role of Munish and Satnam. Sources, however, said, Munish is on the run after his name figured in the firing incident in a gym in Sector 26 of Chandigarh last year. Two bullets had hit 26-year-old Akhil Ghera of Manimajra even as the target was Amit Sharma. Akhil was a friend of Amit.
 
 In the court before ordering 10-day police custody for Mani and Laadi, the magistrate asked the two about their confession and if they knew Munish. Both answered in the affirmative.
 
 In their early 20s, Mani and Laadi were arrested from Chandimandir area on Thursday evening. The interrogation of Gagandeep Singh, alias Gagan, the main accused who is in the custody of Panchkula police, led the police to the two.
 
 Public prosecutor Surender Singh said both have confessed to their involvement in the crime and revealed that Munish and Satnam had played a crucial role in the killing. In their confession, they informed the court that they knew the whereabouts of the two, claiming Mu nish was in Gorakhpur district of Uttar Pradesh and Satnam Singh was hiding near Mohali.
 
 Police said the accused told them that the car used by them was abandoned in Patna, Bihar, and their mobile phones in Amritsar. “The investigation is moving in the right direction. Our interest is not just to make arrests but to ensure that the accused are tried and punished by the court. It is too early to comment on the role of the accused,'' said DCP Ashok Kumar. The DCP ex pressed his inability to share details about Munish and Satnam.
 
