Singer  , who performed at IIT-Kanpur's annual technological festival   was in full form during his performance. Sonu, who had not been feeling well and was down with a severe throat infection and fever, didn't disappoint his fans who had gathered in large numbers at the IIT-K grounds to listen to him live on the last day of the festival. 

  
  (BCCL/ IB Singh)
 
 
 "It's always great to perform in Kanpur. The crowd there is great and very well-behaved. They appreciate good music and it's always fun to sing in Kanpur, especially for youngsters at IIT-Kanpur. And though I was very unwell and was wondering ki kaise perform karunga, it was worth it," says Sonu, who's been resting and recuperating at home since then. 
 
  
  Sonu Nigam (BCCL/ IB Singh)
 
 
  Impressed with UP CM Yogi Aditya Nath's way of working, Sonu, who also tweeted about it, says, "I am not personally involved in politics, but as a common man, I am liking the way the CM is keeping such a close watch on the working of his state. It’s good to see that he is managing things on such a micro level by visiting offices and police stations personally. Because when a boss does that then automatically the employees also remain alert and work more efficiently. I just hope that this thing remains consistent and doesn't fizzle out." 
 
 
  
  
 Techkriti, the three-day technical festival of   saw the students letting their hair down and enjoying the time with their friends. From technical competitions to EDM and Sonu Nigam's night, the technical fest had all the fun ingredients. "I am attending, Techkriti for the first time in my life and I truly loved the festival as it was full of entertainment," said Ashlee who attended the festival with friends Divya, Monika and Nimmi.
 
  
  Vishal 
 
 
 The fest had an ample amount of entertainment in store for the students and the best was saved for the last day when singer Sonu Nigam made the whole campus groove with him. Even before he stepped on the stage, the crowd began chanting his name. A roar of cheer was heard as he came running on stage. "Hello Kanpur. I love you all. Thanks for having me here. I am sure that you are all set to groove with me tonight," said Sonu before singing hits like 'Ab Mujhe Raat Din', 'Main Agar Kahoon' and 'Soniyo', which made the crowd go berserk. While the girls screamed in delight, the boys sang in sync.
 
  
  Students driving ATV (BCCL)
 
  Sonu then went on to sing other hits including 'Deewana Tera', 'Yeh Dil Deewana' and also prompted the crowd to join him in the chorus. "He is one of the best singers. I am in love his voice and he has made my evening," said Sonal, a student. We also spotted Alekha, Manish, Ankita, Arushi, Gaurav, Kamini and Rajan having a great time at the fest.
 
  
  Students in sports arena 
 
 
 
 --with inputs from Jha.Sumit @timesgroup.com
 
 
