NEW DELHI: Cornered by Congress and BJP over the   report which has indicted the Arvind Kejriwal-led Delhi government for irregularities and bypassing the lieutenant-governor, senior AAP functionaries on Thursday said they were ready to be hanged or sent to jail if there was any concrete evidence against them. 

 "Before elections, opposition parties come out with such allegations to show the party in poor light," said AAP national spokesperson   at a press conference. His colleagues, Dilip Pandey and Ashutosh, said that before 2015, 2014 and 2013 elections, too, allegations of corruption were made against AAP.
 
 "Ultimately it was found that the charges of corruption were politically motivated and there was no evidence. So, nothing came out of them," said AAP, questioning the timing of the report being leaked and used by Congress and BJP to target AAP. The three-member committee was set up in 2016 by the then LG, Najeeb Jung, to probe alleged irregularities in the functioning of the Delhi government. It comprised of former  , former CEC N Gopalaswami and former CVC Pradeep Kumar who examined many files.
 
 Ashutosh said the party was ready to leave office and its members their accommodation and work from the streets if there was any evidence of gross irregularities. "BJP has only three MLAs while Congress does not have even a single MLA in Delhi assembly. Both parties have offices (state units) in Delhi," he said. 
 
 "Hang us if you have evidence," said Pandey. "During the 2015 elections, they (opposition parties) came out with allegations of corruption in funding. Nothing happened in two years. Nothing will come out of this report," said Pandey. AAP functionaries said that a similar committee should be set up to probe the corruption in the BJP-led municipal corporations. 
 
 He alleged that the issue was being flagged to divert people's attention from corruption in the corporations and AAP's promise of house tax waiver. "BJP is alarmed at the rising support for AAP in the municipal elections and its looming defeat," said Pandey.
 
 AAP also questioned the infallibility of EVMs which have been sent to   for use in the municipal elections. "4600 EVMs sent to SEC have been found to be dysfunctional due to problems in hardware and other technical issues. The SEC has accepted that these 4600 EVMs are dysfunctional," claimed Pandey.
 
 "These EVMs are in the depth of doubts and lack credibility. Using these EVMs will destroy the confidence of people in democracy," said Pandey. AAP functionaries reiterated the demand for ballot papers in place of EVMs in the municipal elections.
 
