
When Indore Times reached Educational Multimedia Research Center (EMRC) the last week and was waiting for   actress Vaishali Takkar, an alumnus of the institute to come, we saw her walking in unguarded right in time clad in white ruffled top and a pair of plain denims looking aptly ready to visit her college. She seemed excited to reminisce her college days and since she knew every nook and cranny of the campus, so we let her lead the way and show us around the campus. 
  
  
 
 Vaishali who pursued BSC in Electronics Media from the college first took us to the Studio room where she had given her first audition. "This is one place that is very dear to my heart as I had given the first ever audition of my life here. This is where every student thinks of making it big in the industry be it as a producer, director, RJ or an actor. I still can't forget the day when Starplus had given me break. I had totally walked on air that day." After taking us to the Studio Vaishali went to meet with the HOD of the college Dr AK Singh who gleamed with pride seeing her after four years. He shared, "She has really done us proud by achieving what she had dreamt of. She has always been a very exuberant and an active student. The fact that she didn't compromise on her education for making a career in showbiz is commendable. I always tell my students to complete the education first and then go for an unconventional career option." After taking blessings from her professors Vaishali took us to meet with the current year students. To add more fun to the visit we let the students ask Vaishali questions about her college life and beyond. Excerpts: 
  
  
 
 
  Like any other teenager, who had just gotten done with schooling, I too walked in the college with jitters and a lot of fresh energy and excitement. On the very first day itself I interacted with almost every batch mate and senior of mine and made sure that they remember my name. Well, I had an intuition that this college would change my life.
 
  
 
 
 
 Well, looking at you all I can say the vibe of discipline and decorum is still very much there in the college. However, the campus overall looks more neat and tidy. The canteen still is in a bad shape though (J). But, I really missed the masala buttermilk of Indian Coffee House and I am definitely going to go there. And yea the computer library used to be the Adda where I used to hang around with my friends not just to have fun but also to unleash my creativity. 
  
  
 
 
 Oh! Stage has always been my first love. I used to enjoy being on stage and partook in many inter college dancing competitions. I used host a lot of events in the college. In fact, I started anchoring shows and events in Indore professionally in the second year of my college, so I never had the stage fear. Also, had showbizz not happened, I would've gone ahead taking anchoring as a career option. 
 
  
 
 
 
 The best days used to be when we were made to watch art films in college and we used to sit on the back benches munching on popcorns and other snacks while watching those films that sometimes used to get boring. We also used to pass on slips to each other deciding to bunk the next lecture and going to eatery joints around the campus to eat less and gossip more. 
  
 
 
 Well,   food can make you travel long distance and thus I find an excuse to come down to Indore frequently both to meet with my family and have some delectable local food at 56 and Sarafa. As far as friends are concerned I do try and take out at least an hour or two to spend with them after long hours of shooting in Mumbai. People who are following me on social media would know how frequently I hang out with my friends in Mumbai. 
 
  
 
 
 
 Yes, I do reply to some of my fans on social media. When I go live, I definitely reply to everyone who comments and asks questions. And it's extremely important for me to be active on social networking sites as it is through Instagram or snapchat stories that fans get know who we really are and what they perceive of us is just a character that we are playing on screen. 
 
  
 
 
 Yes, I have taken a break from TV because I have signed a movie and soon you will see on the silver screen. However, I can't reveal much about the project as yet. 
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  7 out of 50 in electronics in first year.
 
 
  Over 10
 
  Yes! I lost almost ten kg in just two months in the first year and this series of proposals came after that. (J)
 
 
  Takkkkkkaaaaaarrrr. They used to call me by my second name and thought it was unique.
 
 
 
  Now that I have become famous they know everything about me. (laughs)
 
 
 
 (someone who is never serious and cracks a lot of jokes)
  
  
 Picture credits: Arpit joshi
  
 
