It is that time of the year again, when women from across the State congregate at Trivandrum to offer   to Attukal Amma. This time around, the temple authorities expect more than 35 lakh women to take part in the fest, which has bagged the Guinness record for being the largest single gathering of women for a religious activity. While the festival is all about celebrating womanhood more than a ritual for the city, men and transgenders as well are increasingly taking part this year. 

 For the uninitiated, the Pongala is a ritualistic offering of a sweet dish made using rice, sweet brown molasses, coconut gratings and ghee. Lakhs from in and around the state, throng the city to offer the Pongala to the temple’s presiding deity Attukal Amma. The traditional hearth in front of the temple today will be lit by 10.45 am by the chief priest, and the Nivedyam or the sanctification of Pongala will be held at 2.15 pm. We take a look at on this year’s Pongala updates.
 
 
 
 Earlier only women were allowed to participate in the Pongala ritual. But the festival is now extended to all genders, the only criterion being their devotion towards the goddess. Thulaseedharan, an auto driver and a native of Vattiyoorkavu is one among the male community, who is going to offer pongala to the deity. “Women from my family including my wife and daughter used to offer pongala for the past few years but as they are unwell, I will be performing the pongala this year. 
 
 This is my debut pongala and I wish mother goddess showers her blessings on me so that I can build my own house this year,” says Thulaseedharan.
  Like last year, this year too will see a group of transgender citizens performing the Pongala. The participants are part of Udayam, a new ayalkoottam or neighbourhood group of transgenders formed in Kunnukuzhi ward recently. “All the 15 members of the ayalkoottam will perform Pongala. We are taking part in it with full devotion to the goddess and hoping that she pours her blessings on us for our community’s prosperity. Last year we had offered Pongala in 101 earthen pots. Though we faced threats from a political group we were able to complete it successfully. This year I am planning to prepare thirali, mandaputtu and paalpayasam apart from the sweet pongala,” says Ranjini Pilla, president of Udayam Kudumbasree unit.
 
 
 
 This year also the civic body and temple authorities will follow 100% green protocol during the Pongala festival.   Trust secretary, K Shishupalan Nair says, “We have notified the devotees through the festival book and advertisement boards about the strict ban of plastic in and around the temple premises. The Pongala is performed within a 10 km area around the temple. So we have made it very clear that instead of plastic and styrofoam, devotees should use steel plates and cups provided by the Corporation, temple authorities and independent groups. They have been instructed to use only earthen pots to offer Pongala.” City Mayor VK Prasanth also echoes the same. “We have notified the public to go for alternatives including steel plates and tumblers facilitated by the Corporation and individual groups. We plan to fully clean up the Pongala waste by 9 pm on the same day itself with the help of the 2000 volunteers including Corporation workers,” adds the Mayor.
 
 
 
 Serving free lunch for Pongala devotees has been a regular practice ever since the sub-jail, situated near to the Attukal Temple, was converted into a women’s prison in 2011. The inmates from the Women’s Prison and Correctional Home, Attukulangara, will thus provide refreshments to the devotees. The ongoing trade fair organised by the authorities of the Women’s Prison will sell products ranging from saris to food items made by prison inmates. According to prison superintendent O V Valli, the idea was inspired from the way devotees used the prison campus for resting and even offering pongala in the previous years. “It is for the first time that we are organising a trade fair. The products made by the 65 inmates include special kasavu saris with embroidery, underskirts, dresses tailored by inmates, handicraft products and bakery items prepared by them will be on sale.”
 
 
 
 A round-the-clock control room has been opened at the Attukal Temple premises in connection with the pongala festival. To ensure the safety of the devotees, the Kerala Police have allocated around 3000 police personnel. Out of them, 1200 are women who will keep a check on habitual offenders from the State. This year, the Kerala Police has also recruited Pink Volunteers and Woman Commandos to boost up the security arrangements in the city. A platoon (30 personnel) of woman commandos, trained in the Kerala Police Academy (KEPA) in Thrissur will be on duty to check any kind of violence. The city police has also roped in pink volunteers, an all-woman squad of 200 special officers, recruited for assisting the policemen engaged in security duty. They will wear pink jackets and assist the cops in providing help to the devotees during the pongala. The squad includes women traffic wardens and officials who have taken voluntary retirement from central forces such as CRPF.
 
 
