SURAT: The report ‘Status of Green Cover In Urban Areas of Gujarat’ brought by the state government in 2011 had revealed the dismally low green cover in the  . The tree cover then was estimated to be 1,184 hectares, which was just three per cent of the geographical area and the lowest in  . 

 As against the requirement of 18 lakh trees (considering one tree per three persons), there are just six lakh trees in the city spread over 326 sq km, thanks to rapid urbanization, pollution and stray cattle menace. Despite the plantation drives, the survival rate of the saplings was also a poor 20%. 
 
 Now, if the claims of   (SMC) are anything to go by, the green cover in the city is set to increase by a significant 5% by the end of 2018. 
 
 “We are going to implement a robust monitoring system to ensure that the saplings planted in the special drive survive in the coming two years. We intend to achieve at least 60-70% survival rate for the plants. We will also encourage citizens to protect the plants,” said M Thennarasan, municipal commissioner .
 
 The civic body would plant nearly 1 lakh trees and saplings on its own and another one lakh would be distributed among people and institutions through door-to-door visits. 
 
 “Our staff will embark on a door-to-door campaign with jingles explaining importance of green cover and and saving the environment. We will give them tips and taking care of the saplings to ensure that they survive,” said  , garden superintendent.
 
 At present, the city’s green cover consists of around 30 different species of trees and shurbs. In this year’s drive, around 15 types of shrubs and trees would be distributed and those taking the saplings would be made to take an oath to take care of the trees. 
 
 The loss of green cover has had a visible impact on the climate of Surat too. The heat index is rising every year and mercury crossed 41 degree Celsius this summer. The rainfall, which was an average of 60 inches or 1,500 to 1,800 mm has reduced to 35-40 inches or an average 1200 mm mark in last three years as per various studies.
 
 R A Christian, associate professor at environmental engineering section,  , said, “The goal is achievable by SMC but it needs a dedicated and concentrated efforts. It depends what type of plantation is made, what is its survival rate and what sort of tree cover it would provide once it becomes a tree in few years. The knowledge of what is planted is a must and I think SMC would have chosen plants wisely.”
 
