KOLKATA:   rang the bell to start the match. Eden roared.   sizzled with her dancing moves. Eden roared.   entered the field riding a golf cart. Eden roared again.   picked the first wicket of the day. Eden roared yet again.

 The Eden Gardens was in full form on Thursday as it hosted the first match for the knights this season when they took on Kings XI Punjab in front of 64,000 KKRazy fans.
 
 That the crowd count on Thursday would comfortably cross the capacity was evident long before the spectators had taken their seats. There was the familiar cloud of dust raised by thousands of Eden-bound feet on the greens beside Red Road and the pavements leading from Esplanade to CAB.
 
 A stunning victory in the first match this season and a close finish in the second were just another excuse for the fans who were anyway geared up to fill the ground. The cheering started even before the fans entered the ground and turned into a hum even before the toss. The hum turned into a roar when Gambhir came out for the toss and the dance began with the fall of the first wicket.
 
 The wickets continued to tumble after an initial onslaught and the crowd continued to roar. “We are the loyal fans for  . We cheer good cricket, whoever plays it. We are here rooting for KKR but when the likes of Hashim Amla and   play their shots, it is difficult to sit back without clapping,” said Sandeep Monga, a city businessman who was at the ground with his son Divyaansh, 12, and niece Kamakshi, 13.
 
 Fans in Block E were trying to start a Mexican wave from the start of the match but it was being cut short every time because of a boundary hit by Manan Vohra or Hashim Amla. Just before the end of the first power play, they finally got a proper wave going. But even before it could complete two laps, it was cut short as Marcus Stoinis chopped one Sunil Narine offie on to the stumps.
 
 Dancing in KKR colours, there was a young group of seven friends from Jadavpur. “Dus ki Dahaad .. Aami KKR” yelled Ruchira. Subhashis predicted KKR is going to win the tournament this year again. “No matter how well the oppositions play, this team has the capacity to play better. We are going to rule this time again,” said the JU first-year student.
 
 The high energy — and decibel — party in the stands continued throughout the match but even for those who could not make it to the ground made it big at the restaurants and bars. Mukesh Chabra could not leave office early to reach the ground on time so he decided to shift to 10 Downing Street in Sector V to watch the match with his friends. “It is KKR’s first home match after all. The team needs our support. I could not go to the ground but I cheered for them here,” said the IT professional. 10 Downing Street has dedicated an entire portion to KKR with its attendants dressed in KKR’s colours. 
 
 At Bakstage in Sector V and Tipsy Bull on Burdwan Road, bookings poured in two days in advance. “We have been receiving lots of queries and bookings for all match days. We were entirely booked for Thursday’s match,” said owner Sudhir Ahuja.
 
 
