Bhopal: These days you can find a number fancy registration plates on cars moving around the state capital. Plates with LED lights, numbers embossed with leather or painted in acrylic and numbers spelt as a word are a few examples of the kind of number plates you can choose from.

 The suspension of high security registration plate facility at RTO, has given many shop owner to cash in on the opportunity. Now, you can easily get a ‘designer’ number plate, even if you do not have proper documentation of your car.
 
 This short-cut and illegal method is easier than the tedious legal process that takes not less than 15 days to get a valid registration number for your vehicle.
 
 “There are a few number plates that have become very popular like numbers written in leather, shining LED plates, numbers spelled out to form famous words, numbers written in rubber to give an embossed look,” said a shop owner in Ibrahimpura. These designer plates can cost Rs 300 to Rs 1500 or beyond depending on the style and the kind of material used.
 
 Quite a many shops have mushroomed of late in the city. In MP Nagar alone, there are 22 shops that offer you all kinds of registration plates, another 10 shops in Ibrahimpura can do the same. They send advertisements to potential customers through Whatsapp or sms.
 
 If you want they can spell your name out in numbers, the most common being ‘Modi’ and ‘Ram’ by writing 4749 and 0214 respectively in a way that it reads like the word written in Devanagri script.
 
 According to central motor vehicles act, modification of number plates is strictly prohibited. Harish Sahu who runs his shop in MP Nagar said, “We have been in this business for many years now, and no one has come so far to check. If someone comes to us with such a big vehicle, he must be having valid paper. We almost never verify documents for number plates.”
 
 The transport department had terminated the contract for manufacturing and fixing high security registration plates (HSRP) to Messrs Link Utsav Auto System Pvt Limited in 2014, after it was found that they were providing fake number plates.
 
 Shailendra Shrivastava, state transport commissioner said, “Earlier Link Utsav had the contract to provide high security number plates, but their contract had to be ended. This has led to some problems as there are many shops making number plates across state, without permission. Fresh tenders have been floated and a company has come up for the same. It will take around 6 months to start the project again.”
 
 GFX_POPULAR DESIGNER NUMBERS
 
 4749 for Modi
 
 0214 for Ram
 
 2124 for Sharad
 
 4912 for Pawar
 
 ________________
 
 
