THRISSUR: In a  , a 49-year-old man was   of people at   alleging that he was found   at the house of a woman who was staying separated from her husband, on Saturday night.

 According to the complainant, Abdul Salam, who is a fish worker, he was called to the house by the assailants and tortured. He alleged that he was stripped and tied to an electric post, and tortured. Salam said that his naked photo was later circulated in the social media, by the assailants. 
 
 He had lost some of his teeth in the attack and his body bore scars at several parts.
 
 Salam, who is married and has three children, is now admitted at Kodungallur taluk hospital. He had also alleged that the assailants had taken money from him, and the gold chain of the woman was also taken away. 
 
 District rural SP N Vijayakumar said the Kodungallur police have registered a case and investigations are on. “Salam has given the names of the five persons, all known to him, among the assailants,” he said.
 
  Kodungallur SI E R Biju said the police have registered cases under various provisions covering crimes including assault and robbery against the alleged assailants. Apart from the five persons mentioned by Salam, the police have also registered cases against several other identifiable persons.
 
 He, however, said preliminary investigations indicate there were inconsistencies in the statements of Salam. His allegations about robbery also have to be verified through detailed investigations. 
 
 The SI said the woman could not be located immediately for taking her statement as she was working in different houses.
 
 According to people in the area, a section of the residents had formed a team to keep vigil at night to intercept robbers in the backdrop of the rise in incidents of robbery in the area. 
 
 They claim that Salam was caught by them when he was seen in the house where the woman was staying. They said the husband of the woman who knew about the illicit relationship of Salam with his wife was part of the team.
 
