KOLKATA: App-cab operators, who have protesting against the aggregator, Uber, for withdrawing their incentives, suspended their agitation till Sunday, after an official reportedly requested them to wait till then. The demonstration at the   office at Ballygunge was called off after one of the agitators played the recorded voice of "an Uber official" on his phone, promising to forward their demands to higher-ups for consideration. 

 The four-day wait till Sunday was decided upon as a reasonable time for feedback from the Uber authorities.
 
 A section of app cab drivers, who under the   (JCLTO) umbrella, launched the agitation on Tuesday, shouting slogans and blocking the Ballygunge office gate, re-started the protest on Wednesday as well. The drivers remained staunch in their demand that the service provider restored the old incentive policy so that the earning of a cab operator did not drop below the subsistence level. Uber has withdrawn the earlier incentive, replacing it with "Utsaha (encouragement) Bonus", which would be paid only after a fixed number of trips. The operators claimed the number fixed was not humanly possible to attain.
 
 Joint secretary of JCLTO Rajiv Gupta claimed during the protest, one of their colleagues received a call from a Uber official. "He requested the agitators to wait till Sunday as they had already forwarded our demands to the higher authorities. After this assurance, we have called off our movement till Sunday. If we do not find favourable feedback by then, we will resume the agitation with greater intensity," he said.
 
 Gupta conceded their movement might have affected commuters as "those who could not be physically present had logged out of the app". But, he claimed, they were forced to resort to the agitation as their livelihood was at stake. 
 
 Uber earlier offered a top-up over their daily earning against 14 trips to make it Rs 3,200 a day. But now, the earning has dwindled to Rs 2,200. This, after Uber's deduction of 24.5% of the fee. Many had switched to Ola. "But there is no certainty that   would not follow suit," said Indranil Banerjee, another joint secretary.
 
