JUNAGADH: With groundwater exploitation becoming a major issues in  , agricultural scientists and water conservationists have been suggesting farmers to adopt crop patterns that are less water consuming. However, a recent study conducted by agricultural scientists of   (JAU) revealed that there are many factors including income and adaptation which compel farmers to grow more water consuming crops.

 “It is a worrying fact that the advances made in the ground extraction technology are resulting in its excess water draft and over exploitation. Due to erratic monsoons and hard rock hydrology, the demand for groundwater has been found to be increasing in Gujarat,” said R L Shiyani, professor and head of agricultural economics at JAU, Junagadh.
 
 “We conducted a study ‘Development of Optimal Crop Plans (OCPs) for sustainable groundwater management practices in Saurashtra region’. The study was carried out in four villages — two of Jamkandorna taluka of Rajkot and two of   of Morbi. The villages were selected on basis of intensity of cropping pattern (of both water intensive and non-intensive crop) and open well or bore well using farmers,” he said.
 
 Primary data was collected from 120 respondents consisting of 30 farmers from each village. The objective was to capture the changes in cropping pattern and to device optimal crop plans for sustained groundwater management among sample farms.
 
 In order to improve crop diversification and lessen farmers’ dependency on high water intensity crops, suitable crops should be suggested only after duly considering its income generating capacity, the study suggested. 
 
 “We found in our study that farmers were found diversifying with chilli crop in Wankaner taluka where average water consumption was 410 hours per hectare and the average gross returns per hectare was Rs 19,042. At the same time, groundnut crop with lesser water consumption (317 hours per hectare) was found to yield Rs 25,081 per hectare. 
 
 “Income factor is key while deciding crop patterns. Farmers were found cultivating groundnut and cotton more because of high gross returns as compared to other crops which consume less water. Moreover, the excess water requirement only indicates that either the farmers are not adapting improved varieties or failing to irrigate at critical intervals,” observed B Swaminathan, principal investigator of the study.
 
 “Our study also revealed that farmers were requiring more than 36 hours of water to produce one quintal of soybean which was higher than that of groundnut (35 hours) despite the fact that irrigation intervals of groundnut (3.71 times) was more than that of soybean (1.07 time). We are conducting further study to develop Optimal Crop Plans for sustainable groundwater management practices,” added Swaminathan.
 
