KOLKATA: Roads across the city will soon have smart information boards to alert motorists of   ahead and suggest alternative routes with estimated journey times. Kolkata Police have installed a 3M smart variable signboard near the AJC Bose Road-DL Khan Road intersection ahead of the AJC Bose Road flyover. 

 “We are looking at smart technologies to ease  . The smart variable message (SVM) signs will give useful information to motorists, including possible congestions ahead owing to a rally or accident or simply a traffic snarl. This will enable them to travel via alternative routes that will also be suggested to avoid getting caught in the jam,” said Kolkata Police additional commissioner Vineet Goyal. 
 
 Already, 25 speed alert boards have been installed in major roads to alert drivers if they are speeding. The signs have led to motorists controlling the speed even when traffic is thin fearing being booked for overspeeding. 
 
 “We are trying to interact with motorists using technology as a key tool. The SVM signs will also give live updates on parking, weather, pollution as well as safety messages,” said Goyal.
 
 The location opposite SSKM Hospital at the start of the flyover has been chosen because it is one of the most congested roads in Kolkata. 3M India vice-president (traffic safety and security business) Atul Shukla said the boards were most effective at traffic junctions where motorists stop at red lights and have the opportunity to read the information on display.
 
 The SVMs will take in information from a host of roadside sensors, such as parking, air quality, speed, weather and cloud-based sources, to disseminate information automatically without manual intervention. “The information is customised for each GPS location so that it is relevant to the road user. It also has built-in features to adjust the brightness of the screen based on ambient light levels,”explained Shukla.
 
 Bengaluru, Jaipur and Guwahati already have these signs. In Bengaluru, the pilot during the Aero India Show 2017 benefited around 1 million commuters.
 
 Kolkata Police is also tying up with West Bengal Pollution Control Board to give emission updates on its mobile information display boards that currently offer safety advice. 
 
 
