BHOPAL: Fossil and prehistoric tools’ collection of Dr  , former superintending archaeologist of Archaeological Survey of India (ASI), who holds a D Lit in rock painting, is an eye-popping veritable treasure trove. His invaluable collection includes around 275 such fossils, prehistoric tools, pieces of pottery and weapons he had collected in eight years from parts of the state. His unique collection includes bricks ranging from 3 century AD to the British era.

 Dr Vyas, who started his collection after retirement, said, “I like to collect things that bear testimony to our rich cultural and historical heritage. Along with the tools from early stone-age around 1.5 million-year-old, my prized possessions are earthenware of empires of India. I have pieces of pottery form Maurya period, Hoysala period, Gupta period, and Mughal period.”
 
 “Northern black polished wares were used during the third century BC during the time of Ashoka,” said the archaelogist pointing at his rare collection. About utensils used during Mughal period, he said glazed earthen pots and China clay mud utensils were popular during the Mughal era. 
 
 He started his collection in 2009 and he has so far received many awards, including Genius Book of World records, Bharat World Records and Lifetime Achievement Award for his collections.
 
 Bricks dating back to 1918, 1931 and 1939 form part of his rich collection. Bricks from the British era bear witness to the atrocities they inflicted on Indians, Dr Vyas said, “I have bricks from the 3rd century to 20th century, showing development of our country.”
 
 Along with these, there are fossils as old as 1 lakh years. The shell of a tortoise and the jaw of a nilgai can be easily identified. The fossils were dated by paleontologist G L Badam. Dr Vyas’ collection comprises ‘bhoj-patra’ used by the royalty to send messages. 
 
 Apart from artefact, the archaeologist is a philatelist with some rare stamps in his kitty. 
 
 Dr Vyas has a hand-written panchang, a Hindu calender of 17th Century. 
 
