BENGALURU:   turned profitable in 2016, making it only the second Indian unicorn (private companies with a valuation of over $1 billion) and one of the first major internet-based ventures in the country to do so.

 Co-founder Naveen Tewari told TOI that that company has been profitable every month since June of 2016, and the monthly profit is trending upwards. He said the profits between June and December more than made up for the losses between January and May. He also said the mobile ad technology company’s revenues have been growing annually between 20% and 25%. Google and Facebook are the giants in the space.
 
 Tewari declined to provide specific figures, but people close to the company said InMobi’s net profit was $8-10 million in the October-December quarter of 2016 and that the company’s revenue in the whole of 2016 was over $300 million. Going by the net profit in the fourth quarter of 2016, the company could end 2017 with a profit of over $40 million. In the fiscal year ended March 2015, InMobi had losses of $40 million.
 
 Of the 10 Indian unicorns, only one – Mu Sigma – has been profitable for many years. But Mu Sigma is more a traditional services company unlike most of the others that are building new platforms and creating new markets and investing heavily towards that end. InMobi’s profitability comes partly from its decision early last year to stop investments in several moonshot projects, those that were expected to deliver returns several years later. But the company said it was far more because all of its engines – products, geographies and delivery channels – were firing well.
 
 In a more than hour long discussion with TOI, Tewari said profitability gave him an overwhelming feeling of independence. “It’s difficult to explain my feelings. We are no longer dependent on anyone, the business can scale on its own. I also feel so proud,” he said. Tewari said InMobi is growing very strongly in five big markets – the US, which accounts for 30% of revenues, China (28%), India, Indonesia and Australia.
 
 Tewari, an IIT-Kanpur alumnus, founded InMobi in 2007 together with three other IITians, Abhay Singhal, Amit Gupta, and Mohit Saxena. In 2008 and 2010, it received $15 million in funding from Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers and Sherpalo Ventures, and in 2011, received $200 million from  .
 
 In recent years, as Google and Facebook increasingly dominated the ad tech space and squeezed out many smaller players, some saw InMobi too to be under severe pressure, though the company consistently maintained that it was among the handful of players that was effectively serving the large segment outside the world of Google and Facebook.
 
 “Ad tech works well only at scale and we have achieved that scale,” Tewari said. He said Criteo of France and AdColony in the US were among the few others that had achieved significant scale, but said InMobi had big advantages over even these two because of its early focus on mobile and a far greater range of offerings in terms of ad formats and methods of ad delivery.
 
 InMobi’s software development tools are integrated into over 30,000 apps, which allows it to gather a wealth of information about users. It then uses that information to offer customised ads to the approximately 1.5 billion users that it reaches.
 
 Tewari said global enterprises including telecom companies, mobile device manufacturers, and online retail companies are all looking to gain from advertising, since they too are sitting on tonnes of data. “I can combine their data with the enormous amount of data we have and together we can be extremely effective. Some of them have tried to build their own ad networks, but have abandoned those efforts because it’s very difficult to build one. So for them, we are a great partner,” he said.
 
 SoftBank Group’s operating partner Justin Wilson said the company continues to support InMobi. “We believe InMobi’s global footprint, compelling technology, and world class team, position them well to partner with advertisers to reach an increasingly mobile centric audience,” he said.
 
 
