THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: While it is not yet clear whether former   is adviser to the   or to chief minister  , the government has ordered to provide all the facilities enjoyed by a serving   to Srivastava. 

 Just ahead of remitting the office of the state police chief, DGP   issued a directive (accessed by TOI) on the basis of a government order from the general administration department, to provide a 'police office' to Srivastava. The task of finding suitable office has been entrusted to ADGP (headquarters) Tomin J Thachankary. It is learnt that bank house, a building inside the police headquarters compound is being actively considered for setting up of office for Srivastava. 
 
 Based on the GO, Behera also ordered to provide a Toyota Innova car (KL-01 BJ 2727), which was earlier used by state police chief, as the official vehicle for the adviser. Along with the car, he has also been allotted two police drivers, whose services he can utilised even if he is using his personal vehicle. In addition, he has also been allotted an office assistant, computer, internet facility, phone and fax.
 
 The order, issued on the basis of the general administration department GO on May 5, contradicts the answer provided by CM Pinarayi Vijayan on the assembly floor to a question by   on April 24. While Pinarayi answered that Srivastava has been appointed without any remuneration, the GAD order says that his travel allowance and daily allowance will be equivalent to that of chief secretary and that it will not be subject to scrutiny before sanctioning, and will be met from the budget head under the control of the police chief.
 
 But Srivastava's move to avail an office adjacent to police headquarters and use all police facilities have not gone well with most of the officers. They feel that this could be a move to indirectly control the force. In a recent meeting of officers of Kannur range, convened by chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, there was unpleasant conversation between Srivastava and a top police official over protocol in seating arrangements and a suggestion to increase the strength of the police force. Senkumar, who took over as the police chief on Saturday, had said that Srivastava is not an adviser to police, but, an adviser to the chief minister. 
 
 After serving for three years as state police chief and two years as director general of Border Security Force, Srivastava had retired in 2011. He had then taken up assignment as chief security adviser of Muthoot Fincorp Group. Srivastava who was appointed as adviser on police matters last month last month was not available for comments despite repeated attempts. 
 
