KOLKATA: An eight-hour-long drama, which started with the audacious abduction of a newborn from one of the state’s premier public-sector hospitals, ended with the baby being reunited with his parents before the end of Tuesday.

 The circumstances lead-ing to the reunion were as biz-arre as the abduction.   was found outside her residence near Gurudas Park, after a change of sari and with the baby in her arms, about 600 metres from the abd-ucted baby’s home. Police suspect that the wife of auto-rickshaw driver Prasanta Bej and mother of a six-year-old daughter was desperate for a son and had kept a watch on the neighbourhood’s expectant mothers and then decided on striking on Tuesday after she came to know that one of them had delivered a son.
 
 The baby at the centre of the chain of events was born to Saraswati Naskar, a resident of Bagmari Road, at the Medical College and Hospital on Friday afternoon.
 
 On Tuesday afternoon, around 12.30pm, a woman in a green sari approached Saraswati at her hospital bed and told her that her baby needed to be given a vaccine.
 
 This woman, identified as Chinmayee after her arrest, then escorted Saraswati, who had her son in her arms, to the   (SNCU) at the other end of the Eden Hospital building. Chinmayee took the boy from his mom when they reached the SNCU and asked her to bring his blood test reports. That was the last Saraswati saw of her four-day-old son for some time.
 
 “A woman in a green sari took me and my child for check-up and then asked me to bring a blood test report lying on my bed,” Saraswati later said, explaining that it took her several minutes to realise that her baby had been stolen.
 
 All hell broke loose after Saraswati’s kin came to know of the sequence of events and the Medical College and Hospital campus as well as Central Avenue outside were subjected to several rounds of mob violence and blockade.
 
 Away from the hospital, events were unfolding at an even quicker pace. The first CCTV grab to have captured Chinmayee on Tuesday was on the MCH campus; the time was around 12.30 p.m.
 
 The second CCTV grab in which Chinmayee was seen was at the Central Metro Railway station; the time was 12.53 p.m. Chinmayee was captured on camera for the third -- and last -- time at 1.04 p.m., this time at the Park Street Metro station.
 
 The trail then went cold for several hours but the CCTV footage playing ceaselessly on local television channels did their job by the evening.
 
 The Bejs' neighbours at the Bagmari Road slums, near Gurudas Park in Phulbagan, came to know that husband and wife had "become the parents of a boy" on Tuesday. Many of them had seen Chinmayee on television throughout the afternoon and the evening and confronted the Bejs at their home around 8.30 p.m.
 
 Chinmayee, who by then had changed into a pink-and-white sari, broke down after some time and admitted that the boy she held in her arms was not her son. Her neighbours then took her -- along with the four-day-old boy -- to the Naskars' residence, along the same road around 600 metres away, where the Naskars identified the boy.
 
 They then alerted cops, who came and arrested both Prasanta and Chinmayee and then recovered the green-and-white sari from their home. Both of them were taken to Bowbazar police station as Saraswati and her son were sent to MCH again for routine tests that would confirm the boy's identity.
 
 
