Ahmedabad: Centres of Excellence (COE) in two forensic disciplines — cyber security and biotechnology — will come up in Gujarat Forensic Sciences University (GFSU). Experts see theses as areas of emerging threat in the future. The state government has allocated Rs 45 crore in the budget for 2017-18 to set up COE in these two disciplines.

 Officials in the state home department said that the projects were proposed under the central government’s Modernization of Police Force (MPF) programme for which both state and central governments allocate funds.
 
 Construction work for the COEs will start this year and the centres are expected to start functioning in a couple of years. Officials said that the centres will directly help the Directorate of Forensic Sciences (DFS) which is involved in practical aspects of crime-solving.
 
 “A plan approved for this year also involves setting up a separate training institute exclusively for in-service police and crime investigation officers, both of India and abroad,” said a senior GFSU official.
 
 The official further said that compared to the existing labs, the COEs will require upgraded infrastructure and equipment. 
 
 “Most of the funds will be utilized to get state-of-the-art hardware and software for the purpose,” the official said. “In cyber security, technology changes every six months and upgrades are required to keep up-to-date with hackers.” 
 
 GFSU currently has a ‘threat-shield lab’ at the Institute of Forensic Science (IFS) which will serve as a model for the COEs.
 
 Likewise, the thrust area for COE in biotechnology will be DNA technology. “Our aim is to develop DNA testing methods where a fully-automated system can process the smallest of samples picked up by investigators from the crime scene or from suspects,” an official said. “The system will be faster than the conventional method which currently takes at least two days.” 
 
 Recently, 46 African nations had participated in a two-day seminar at GFSU exploring possibilities for collaboration on various aspects of forensic science including setting up labs in Africa and training police and military personnel at GFSU. So far, 10 nations have sent their officials to GFSU for training.
 
 Myanmar cops sharpen skills
 
 Ahmedabad: GFSU officials said that a batch of 10 high-ranking police officials from Myanmar have started two-week training at the university. “Their focus is forensic chemistry pertaining to explosives, narcotics, chemical compounds and so on,” a GFSU officials said. “Another batch of 10 officers is arriving later this month for forensic toxicology. They will be taught about different poisons, their impact on living organisms and how to detect them.” 
 
 A team of Bangladesh police officers is already training at the university. Later this year, a group from Vietnam is expected to come for training, officials said.
 
 
