Mumbai: Under volatile market conditions, consumer products major   ( ) beat market estimates by reporting 9% growth in net profit at Rs 1,283 crore in the first quarter ended June 30, 2017, as compared to Rs 1,174 crore in the corresponding period of the previous year. Sales rose 5% to Rs 9,094 crore from Rs 8,662 crore.

 Volumes, however, remained flat as   (CSD), a large retailer, did not buy stocks in the pre-GST period, causing a disruption for fast-moving consumer goods.   margin was up 160 basis points (100bps = 1 percentage point).
 
 HUL MD & CEO Sanjiv Mehta said at a press meet, “In the run up to  , trade had become very cautious. Big customers also did not buy for a couple of weeks. However, we have been able to navigate the turbulence. One of the factors has been our strength in distribution.”
 
 He added, “The channel which was most disrupted has been the  . It will take time for them to return to normalcy. Had CSD purchased normally, we would have seen a positive volume growth in June quarter. This quarter (July-September), if wholesale comes back to normalcy, we should certainly see volumes improve.”
 
 Despite high promotional intensity, stock pipelines remained low and varied across categories, channels and geographies. HUL CFO P B Balaji said, “In the run-up to GST, there was a cautious sentiment to trade and despite high promotion intensity. Input cost was stable and rural markets continued to remain challenging. The price growth came predominantly from the pricing action in the previous quarter.” 
 
 Balaji said although consumer offtake has been normal, the company is cautious about trade pipelines that are very thin. “Our priority is to ensure we restore the trade pipelines. On the trade side, wholesalers and retailers are particularly unclear about rules, which is delaying the return to normalcy,” said Balaji.
 
 Category-wise, while home care grew 6%, personal care 4% and refreshments 11%, the growth in foods was almost flat. While competitive advertising and promotion spends were maintained, zero-based budgeting helped drive efficiencies. The HUL stock gained 0.5% at Rs 1,158 by close of Tuesday’s trade on the BSE.
 
 
