NAGPUR: Large-scale goof-ups in   and voter applications denied several hundreds an opportunity to cast their vote in the   ( ) elections on Tuesday. At many centres, presiding officers informed that 10-20% people who turned up to vote returned disappointed. 

 While names of many voters were missing on the electoral rolls, many others got confused with the different information provided by voter applications and websites. Many became victims of the new ward system and could not find their polling booths. Unlike previous elections, most of them didn’t receive the voting slips.
 
 After struggling for hours to find his booth, Prakash Khandelwal gave up. “First, I went to a school in Ramdaspeth where I had voted during the last Vidhan Sabha elections. The officials couldn’t find my name and gave me a handwritten chit, asking me to go to Gandhi Nagar Hindi Prathmik Shala where too my name was still missing,” he said.
 
 65-year-old Ranjit Khare, a resident of Venuvan Society, left his home at 7am to cast vote. Till 1pm, he was struggling. “After I shifted my residence, I had applied for a change of address. But I can’t find my name anywhere,” he said. 
 
 Satish Somankar and his wife’s name was visible online but went missing from the voting list. Akshay Nikhare too saw his name on the mobile app but couldn't find it at the centre.
 
 Sheikh Sabir Sheikh Turab, who couldn’t spot his name, was allotted a serial number and sent to  , only to find “someone else’s name was written in front of that number”. On the government website, voting centre for Arvind Kumar Raturi and his family was stated as ‘badminton hall, Anant Nagar’. “There was no such place in that area. After hours, we found a badminton hall some kilometres away,” he said.
 
 Many said that the applications were not voter-friendly. “The app was out of service,” said Aamir-ul-Islam, 52. Senior citizens were a harried lot due to their “discomfort with technology”. “I couldn’t use the voter’s app or other websites. The system is too complicated for a layman,” said 72-year-old Bholanath Banerjee. Hanuman Nagar resident Mama Munde (65) found the online system not updated. 
 
 Not for the first time, some voters got unlucky. “Since 2014, my name remains missing from the electoral rolls. This time too, I could not vote,” said Meena Mantri, a resident of  , Jaripatka. 
 
 “I am a regular taxpayer, voter and retired government servant. Still, my name is missing since the last three years,” said Suman Wasu, 81. 
 
 Except for his photograph, 22-year-old Milind Devansh’s voter ID has all other details wrong. “My name is changed to Shahanoor Mohammad and my father’s name to Aqeel Mohammad. Two years back, I had filed an application but the administration never responded,” he said. 
 
 Similarly, the entire Sheikh family couldn’t vote due to an error in Abdul Karim Sheikh’s name. “Since my father’s name was written as Abdul Hafiz in the voting list, my mother and I could not vote,” said Afroz Jahan.
 
 A large number of first-time voters neither got voting cards, nor were they mentioned in the electorate rolls. Officials on-duty at Somalwar Ramdespeth school said that over 40 youngsters were sent back as their names were missing. “Last year, I had submitted the necessary documents but still didn’t receive a voting card. My name is missing,” said 19-year-old Bhavna Sayan. 
 
 Calling the digital system “ambiguous”, 18-year-old Poonam Rewatkar said, “The names in voters lists were not visible in the mobile applications and the names in mobile applications were not visible in the voters list.” 
 
 Change in ward system was another problem area. In many cases, members of the same family got different centres. “We all live in ward no 11 but my sister was sent to ward 10’s poll booth,” said Mohammad Javed. 
 
 “The new ward system is confusing. Why am I being sent to vote in a ward where I don’t live?” said Jafar Nagar resident Abdul Razzaq. 
 
