In the latest episode of  , Alia ( ) and Tanu ( ) are seen entering Munni's ( ) house. When the latter questions them, the two friends tell her about Pragya and Abhi. They also show her their pictures and tell her how Pragya, who was married to Abhi, tried to come between Tanu and Abhi. She refuses to believe them and tell them that Pragya had no reason to come between them as she was already married to Abhi ( ).
 
  Alia and Tanu ask her to pretend as Pragya and make her image really bad in front of Abhi, but Munni refuses to do so as she knows that Abhi is a good man. They try to lure her with money, but she is adamant at not helping them. Tanua nd Alia then threaten to kill her, but Munni again places knife on Tanu's neck and says that she is not afraid of them and would kill them instead. They leave from there and return to their house. Tanu tries to convince Alia to go back and ask Munni not to tell about this to Abhi or anyone, but Alia finds her too dumb to even think of doing this.
  
  Meanwhile, Munni's niece hears on the radio that Abhi will be performing a concert and would give half the money that he raises from the concert to girl education. Munni decides to go there and tell Abhi about Alia and Tanu.
  
  At the concert, Abhi is introduced to the crowd by the audience, and Rishabh asks him if his brother Karan can also share the stage with him. Karan, played by Dheeraj Dhoopar is an adamant cricketer, who wants to walk ahead of Abhi and the latter lets him do so, until Karan stumbles on his way and Abhi gives him a helping hand. Karan thanks him for his kind gesture
 
  
  Munni is stopped by the bouncers at the gate, but somehow manages to sneak in behind a bouquet. She reaches near the stage and shouts Abhi's name. He looks at her but can't listen to what she is saying. He goes numb on seeing her and the two keep looking at each other.
  
  Tanu switches on the TV and spots Munni in the crowd at Abhi's concert. She quickly informs Alia about the same and says that Munni is just too smart for everything.
  
  Keep watching this space for more updates. Kumkum Bhagya airs on Zee TV at 9 pm, Monday to Friday.
  
  
 
  
  
 
