NAGPUR: Residents of Ward Number 12 would be happy to forget all the  , but they would certainly remember this campaigner who tirelessly went around the whole day riding her e-rickshaw featuring two loudspeakers and banners.

 Clad in a stripped black-blue top and blue trousers, face covered with a scarf and hand gloves on, Rajashree alias Sonia Meshram has been ferrying her public address system-mounted e-rickshaw in Friends Colony, KT Nagar, Aakar Nagar, Uttarsh Nagar and parts of Gittikhadan campaigning for an independent candidate.
 
 Sonia, a resident of  , is not alone but a couple of other women from her area too have taken up the seasonal job to supplement their family income. While Sonia is busy in West Nagpur, Maya and Jaya (both names changes) are riding their e-rickshaws in Pardhi and Mahal areas.
 
 This job isn’t new to Sonia as she has been ferrying passengers on   for sometime, Maya and Jaya took up the assignment to make a quick buck. But, they haven’t disclosed this to their family members and therefore requested that their original names be not published. 
 
 “Maya’s husband is no more so she is utilizing the opportunity to make some money to run the household. The e-rickshaw belongs to her husband but wasn’t being used as she didn’t have a permit. She knows it won’t be a problem at the moment. As for Jaya, she was working as a house maid but is now self employed,” says Sonia. 
 
 She claims to be the first woman e-rickshaw holder in the city, showing the registration number on her vehicle. 
 
 These women are earning Rs800 a day for riding their e-rickshaw through each and every motorable lane of the ward, playing the recorded messages, songs and speeches of their client. Their day starts at 6am and ends at 8pm. So far, they haven’t faced any hostility from local residents. “In fact, when people see that a woman is riding, they politely request to lower the volume,” Sonia says.
 
 However, it has not been easy for them as they are not allowed to stop or take breaks.
 
 “The candidate’s staff keep a close watch on us. If they don’t hear the system on, they either call up on mobile or visit the spot,” Sonia says.
 
 She adds that they are not allowed to even chat if they happen to meet an acquaintance or friend on the way.
 
 After the campaigning ends on Sunday evening, it would be business as usual for them.
 
 “I would return to ferrying passengers for a couple of hours in a day while others will have to find something else as they don’t have the permit,” says Sonia, as she switches on the music player and carries on with her work.
 
