BHOPAL: Snail’s pace of road construction has badly hit commuters on the Trilanga and Kerwa dam roads section. The two prominent roads that witness high density of traffic has been under construction for the past three months.

 The slow pace of work and congested dusty lanes have led to several accidents in the area.
 
 Renewal work of   was launched in the first week of November 2016 and the less than 2 km road is still incomplete.
 
 Similarly, a 1.2 km long PWD road being constructed at Kerwa dam that connects   (NLIU) and many other schools and colleges is also not completed in the last three months.
 
 Commuters are forced to face dust while passing through the route daily.
 
 The construction work on  , has forced many students to choose a longer route to their colleges.
 
 Kundan, a puncture mechanic who runs his shop at Kerwa road said, “I am the biggest victim of the slow construction work. For about 12-hours vehicles pass by this road continuously and I have to inhale the dust and cope with pollution.”
 
 “Road repair work started few months ago and is still going on,” Kundan said.
 
 Talking to TOI, Sanjay Khande, PWD superintending engineer, said “Road work at Kerwa dam road started in the last week of October. We initially started the work from Kaliasot dam to NLIU tri-section. We realized that from there till  , reconstruction was needed as the road used to be waterlogged when Badbhada dam reached Full Tank Level. Initially we carried out levelling work as we were waiting for the Badbhada water level to subside to reconstruct that patch.”
 
 “From January 15, the water level had receded and we have restarted the work and whole patch has been dug up and is filled to raise road height. The Rs 78-lakh-project will take around two more months to be complete.”
 
 In Trilanga, the on-going renewal work leads to traffic jam daily. More than 10,000 vehicles pass through the road and PWD has blocked almost 2 km section of a lane.
 
 PWD officials said it would take another two months for the road to be completed. Only 800 meter of road has been renewed till now. Besides causing inconvenience to commuters the residents in nearby colonies have been hit as digging for road work damaged several pipelines affecting water supply.
 
 Khande said “We are renewing the road from Trilanga till number 10 market in 12 different patches. The work will be completed by last week of March. The day traffic is creating problem for us but we are trying to get it done soon.”
 
