BHOPAL: Students in Bhopal are taking to contraband peddling and betting on cricket matches, all for life in the fast lane. Arrest of eight students, seven engineering and one pursuing MBA, from across the city areas in in past five days suggests they are not averse to sell dope because of quick money.

 The arrests were made from Piplani, Gandhi Nagar and Ashoka Garden areas. “Arrested students hail from Bihar and other states and came to Bhopal for studying. However, they resorted to unlawful acts to live in style and lavish life,” police said.
 
 The fresh arrests were made from   in BHEL township on Friday night. Piplani police said four engineering students were accepting bets for IPL matches. Accused were identified as Vineet Kumar, 20, Santan Kumar, 20, Anurg Yadav, 19, and  , 21.
 
 All are engineering students and reside in Patel Nagar and Awadhpuri area in BHEL township. Police said four mobile phones, a television and set top box were seized from them. Among the accused, Vineet was accepting bets, the police said, adding the accused could be linked to a bigger betting racket.
 
 On April 3, three engineering students and an MBA student were arrested with hashish worth lakhs in their possession.
 
 Though arrested from different areas, the accused were linked to each other. Two students were arrested in Ashoka Garden. During interrogation, police got leads and two others were arrested from Gandhi Nagar area, officials said.
 
 Gandhi Nagar police said the accused were identified as Abhishek Kumar and Anand Vibhore, both final year students of a private engineering college. They were caught smuggling hashish worth Rs 1.78 lakh at Asaram Trisection.
 
 Police said the two were on the way to deliver contraband consignment when intercepted and taken into custody. Both are natives of Bihar and come from families with modest means, but live a lavish life by resorting to unlawful activities, police said.
 
 On April 2, Ranjeet Kumar, the MBA student and Amit Kumar, an engineering student, were arrested with hashish worth Rs 1.50 lakh in Ashoka Garden area. Ranjeet is from Jharkhand and Amit hails from Bihar. Police said they revealed names of their accomplices and subsequently the Gandhi Nagar police nabbed two others. Accused are believed to be in narcotics trade for quite some time now and more students could be involved in it, police said.
 
 
