CHENNAI: Summer is approaching but water shortage is already here. Two months ago Metrowater told residents that it would provide water once in two days, but several areas like Besant Nagar, Thiruvanmiyur and Adyar have received little supply in the past 20 days. Only core areas in the city like  ,  ,   and parts of Anna Nagar have had no problem.

 The crisis seems to have hit posh Adyar, with residents of Gandhi Nagar, Kasturba Nagar and Shastri Nagar depending on private tankers. Water supply in Indira Nagar however is still steady. "We have been ordering a 9,000-litre load of water from private tankers every day. A month ago, one load per week would suffice," said C Ramakrishnan, secretary of Federation of Adyar Residents Associations.
 
 In areas like Velachery, Guindy and Taramani, water supply has been erratic for the past two months. "Until last year, Metrowater supplied water to our neighbourhood every two to four days but now we get water once a week," said social activist and Guindy resident V S Lingaperumal. The summer crisis beginning so early in the year has riled residents. Last week residents living along M G R Salai, and off Old Mahabalipuram Road, took to the streets to protest Metrowater's move to reduce supply. Residents of Kallukuttai in Velachery say some people are taking advantage of the problem by stocking up water in tanks and selling it at '5-'10 a pot. 
 
 Tamil Nadu Housing Board residents in Foreshore Estate also reported a drop in supply. Security guard Shakti who operates the motor pump for the apartment complex said, "Two months ago, the building sump used to overflow. Over the past week barely half the tank is filled."
 
 Over the last 10 days, supply has fallen drastically in parts of Thiruvottiyur. Wimco Nagar resident P F Zakir said, "There was round-the-clock supply at Tsunami Quarters in Ernavur and in areas near the Ennore Thermal Power Station. But for more than a week, water supply is down to an hour in two to three days". The water pressure in taps has reduced in Sathyamoorthy Nagar, Kargil Nagar, Ananya Garden, Srirangam New Town and many other parts of north Chennai as well. 
 
 In Sholinganallur, where Metrowater operates trucks, the reach is only till the slums. Sholinganallur TNHB Colony resident Suresh Babu said, "Metrowater tankers take three days to deliver when we order for paid supply, so we are forced to depend on private tankers." Fortunately for people living in and around Alandur, Nanganallur, Adambakkam and Pazhavanthangal, they get 500-1,000 litres every other day. 
 
