PUNE: A 71-year-old woman was found brutally murdered with her throat slit in her flat at   on Dhanori road late on Saturday night. The woman was living alone for the past few years after her husband’s death.

 Prima facie, robbery seemed to be the motive behind the killing of   as her gold chain and gold bangles worth about Rs 1.5 lakh were missing. Her body was found in one of the two bedrooms of the flat, which is located on the second floor in building no. 10 of the housing society. 
 
 The police believe that Nair knew the murderers fairly well as they found three empty tea cups and two glasses of water in the living room of the flat.
 
 The murder came to light around 10.30pm when Nair’s daughter, who is married to a senior officer of the army medical corps, reached the flat as she was not responding to calls. “When Nair did not open the door despite repeated knocks, her daughter contacted her husband and told him to bring an extra key from their house,” said Hari Kumar, a family friend and president of the Nair community in Pune.
 
 When the daughter opened the door, she found the blood-soaked body of her mother lying in the bedroom. The police were summoned and Nair’s body was taken to the Sassoon general hospital where doctors declared her brought dead.
 
 An officer from the Vishrantwadi police said Nair’s relatives told them that her gold chain and bangles, which she used to wear, were missing. “No other valuables have been stolen from the flat,” the officer said.
 
 No forced entry, suspects probably knew woman
 
 A senior police officer, who was at the crime scene, told TOI that the police did not find any indication of forced entry into Nair’s house. “Nair must have known the suspects. She had given them water and also made tea for them. We found three tea cups in the living room,” he said.
 
 The officer said Nair’s son Manoj, who stays at Vadgaonsheri, had called her up and spoken to her around 1.30pm. Her daughter too had spoken to her on the phone around the same time,” the officer said. 
 
 The police also learnt that Nair had made her last call around 4pm to a grocery shop located at the entrance of the housing society. She had told the shop owner to send milk as she was expecting guests. “The shop owner’s daughter had delivered the milk pouches to Nair’s house immediately,” the officer said. When TOI contacted the girl, she said Nair had opened the door and had taken the milk pouches from her. “I do not know whether anyone else was inside the flat,” she said.
 
 The officer said the police suspect that Nair was murdered sometime between 5pm and 8pm. “Around 6pm, one of her neighbours had called her on her cellphone. However, the cellphone got disconnected. Later, it was switched off,” the officer said.
 
 CCTV shows two men entering society
 
 The CCTV camera at the entrance of the Ambanagari housing society showed two unidentified men, wearing caps, entering the society premises in the evening and returning after some time. “The duo had entered fake cellphone numbers in the visitors’ register of the society,” the officer said.
 
 He said the CCTV footage at the entrance was not clear. “There are two cameras in the lobby of the building no. 10 where Nair lived. However, both cameras were not working,” the officer said.
 
 Nair was helpful: Relative
 
 A relative of Nair, who did not wish to be named, told TOI that she and her husband Madhavan were working at the Research and Development Establishment (Engineers) at Dighi. “Nair, who worked in the clerical department, had taken voluntary retirement long back,” the relative said. “I spoke to her on Thursday for almost half an hour. I can’t believe she is not with us now,” he said.
 
 Another relative said that Nair was a nice, helpful person. Though she lived alone, she was very careful about her security. “She would never allow any unknown person inside her house,” the relative said. 
 
 The relative said that Nair’s son, who used to work abroad, had recently shifted to India. He is currently working on a project in Kerala and lives at Vadgaonsheri with his family. He had come to Pune for Dasara.
 
