Nagpur: Even four months after Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) took over the city bus operations, it is yet to start plying all 432 buses in its fleet, making do with only 267 buses instead. Sources have alleged that the civic body is discouraging operation of more buses, since it will have to pay the operators according to the number of buses being operated, as per their agreement.

 NMC’s agreement with the three Red Bus operators was that they would each ply 144 buses, including 79 standard old buses, 50 new midi buses and 15 new mini buses. But the three private operators are plying only 90, 90 and 87 buses, revealed sources in NMC’s transport department.
 
 Sources said the transport department is not approving procurement of 45 new mini buses by the operators. Another 57 buses are lying idle at bus depots in Khapri, Hingna etc. Out of the 55 ethanol buses, NMC has so far started procured and started plying only five buses.
 
 Sources revealed that operators had repaired 90-old standard buses. Of these, schedules of 33 buses have been prepared by Delhi Integrated Multi-modal Transit System Limited (DIMTS), and they may be put to use by the end of this week.
 
 However, there is a shortage of Electronic Ticketing Machines too, say sources. Also, DIMTS has not drawn up sufficient schedules, and services to citizens are severely affected since DIMTS is running fewer buses, sources said.
 
 Transport committee chairman Bunty Kukde admitted that the number of buses plying on city roads is insufficient. He said, “Currently, NMC is plying buses on 65 routes and the fleet will be increased soon. I have also sought suggestions from all corporators regarding need of city bus service connectivity in their prabhags.” Since January this year, NMC has generated Rs18.84 crore revenue through sale of tickets, he said.
 
 However, sources said NMC is facing a huge revenue loss due to less frequency and poor connectivity across entire city. They point out that some private bus operators to destinations like Chandrapur, Umrer and Chhindwara are also carrying passengers on stretches within the city limits. Similarly, many bus passengers are opting to take autorickshaws for short distances.
 
 On Tuesday, TOI found on many routes that due to lack of buses travellers were forced to commute in overcrowded buses on busy routes, including Kamptee, Butibori and Hingna.
 
 Furthermore, due to fewer buses, the services are not covering timings of travel for many people. The uncertainty regarding bus service is also forcing many bankers and employees in city office hubs like LIC, Sadar, Civil Lines etc to travel in personal vehicles.
 
 Ramesh Tidke, a resident of Wathoda, pointed out that with ongoing cement road works, city roads have become unsafe. “Still, I cannot commute in city buses due to their erratic schedule and overcrowding,” he said. 
 
 In fact, the main job of DIMTS is to conduct proper studies of the travel needs of citizens, timings and locations, and plan an effective city bus schedule. However, due to poor monitoring of the operations of DIMTS, the city bus service is not improving as expected even under NMC’s control.
 
 
