LUDHIANA: The murder of a father and son, both dera followers, by unidentified shooters on a motorcycle in Jhagera village, is yet another in a string of unsolved cases involving religious leaders and workers. 

 In the first such case of attack on religious leaders, two unidentified miscreants opened fire at 35-year-old Naresh Kumar, mukhya shikshak (main teacher) at an RSS shakha in Kidwai Nagar on January 18, 2016. He was shot early in the morning, before the Shakha was to begin. 
 
 After the attack, the accused, who were on a black Honda Splendor motorcycle, fled from the spot. They have not been identified as yet. Police questioned around 100 suspects in the case, but nothing substantial was revealed. 
 
 On April 4 last year, unidentified motorcycle-borne men shot dead Chand Kaur, wife of former sect head of the Namdharis, Sadguru Jagjit Singh, at Bhaini Sahib, the sect headquarters. The accused were waiting at the entrance gate of Satguru Pratap Singh Academy, where Chand Kaur had gone to attend a function. 
 
 One of the men, aged between 30 and 35 years, bowed before her, ostensibly to pay his respects, and fired two shots at her before running away.
 
 Chand Kaur, who was shot in the forehead and abdomen, died. But the accused have not been identified yet. Police released sketches of the two suspects. The case went to CBI. 
 
 In the third high-profile case of 2016, two men on a motorcycle shot a Labour wing president of the Shiv Sena, Punjab, Durga Gupta at Lalheri Chowk on April 23. Gupta was on his way to the market to buy wheat flour on a two-wheeler. Khanna police managed to get pictures of four of the five accused. Police also announced a cash award of Rs 5 lakh to whoever provided information. 
 
 On January 14 this year, Pramukh Jila Pracharak (preacher) of Shree Hindu Takhat, Amit Sharma died after two bikers shot him near the Durga temple. Police questioned around 50 suspects but did not get a clue. The sole eyewitness to the murder was not of much help either. Hindu Takhat's Varun Mehta said the government must monitor hardliners in every religion. 
 
