GOMAL (JALGAON): The   in   district are game for another   if the government guarantees it will stop corruption forever.

 With top leaders, including BJP bigwig  , Shiv Sena stalwart Suresh Jain and NCP leader Gulabrao Deokar, mired in various controversies, they cannot stand dishonesty. Troubled with top-to-bottom corruption, tribals say they have to bribe government officials even to seek information on government subsidies.
 
 Illiterate tribals from Chopda taluka who use cellphones are eager to learn online banking. They want the government to make all transactions and schemes online so babus and leaders don’t have a chance to meddle and demand bribe. 
 
 “Corruption is everywhere — from top to bottom. Big leaders are involved in multi-crore scams and their followers and government servants extract money from us. A Gram Sevak demanded Rs 2,500 bribe when I sought government subsidy to buy a bullock. The government must do everything online so that there is no human interference. It must go for another demonetisation, but corruption must be stopped,” says Tarachand Pawalya, an illiterate having a cellphone and ready to learn mobile banking.
 
 Like Tarachand, every illiterate poor adivasi in Gomal hamlet in Chopda taluka, about 460km from Pune, has a story to share. For every piece of paper they want from the government offices, they have to pay bribe, and for every subsidy they get, the babus seek a cut.
 
 “I don’t know much about demonetisation or any other scheme. But the government must ensure that no babus or leaders are there between us and the government assistance. If the government is talking of cashless economy, it must also take a step forward and go for complete online system,” says Ruma Pawara, who wants to build a house, but isn’t aware of Prime Minister’s announcements for housing for the poor. 
 
 “You will be surprised that sitting in this remote hamlet, we are talking about online transactions. But it tells you how frustrated people are because of corruption,” says Shelar Pawara, the only educated youth in the hamlet. He has a bachelors degree in social work. 
 
 Shelar assists community members in opening bank accounts. “Many don’t even have a bank account, but they are excited about online transactions because there will be no human interference. Living in this forest area, people don’t fear animals, but they fear government officials and netas (political leaders),” Shelar adds.
 
 Gomal hamlet is not on the map of Maharashtra as it is a part of forest area. Only recently, the state revenue and forest departments have started the process to recognize Gomal as a village. It will get basic facilities after it gets recognition. 
 
 Adivasis here cross a dry river to reach Madhya Pradesh (MP) to shop because taluka headquarters Chopda is about 40km away. All of them get cellphone connectivity from MP’s mobile towers located adjacent to the village. 
 
 “We came to know about demonetisation only after we started facing cash crisis in the market. Most of us are into farming and traders in the MP market stopped buying our products after the high value notes were scrapped. We just buy turmeric, oil and salt from the market. Hence, demonetisation didn’t affect our daily lives,” says Saisingh Rawalya.
 
 “Demonetisation has affected police and forest officials more. From last month, we have not been able to pay them weekly bribe because we did not do any business. People had no money and they stopped commuting,” says a driver on a jeep, the only mean of transport.
 
 Ask him how many passengers he carries in his vehicle, and he grins. There are 52 adivasi passengers sitting in and on the jeep. 
 
 Many accidents were reported earlier, but with no other transport available, tribals are dependent on jeep for commuting.
 
 The forest in nearby hamlets and Melan village is slowly vanishing. Adivasis have cleared huge parts of forest to farm .
 
  “In the past few years, rainfall has been declining. In the next few years, this area will face water scarcity. There will be a situation when people will have to migrate from here,” says Lalit Bonde, a professional agricultural worker having worked in these areas.
 
 Gouribai Pawara is completely unaware of what is happening in the outer world. She speaks only Pawari language and is an illiterate. Ask her if she is aware about the government schemes for housing and toilets, and she nods her head negatively after the question was translated to her. 
 
 Like Gouribai, many Pawaras adivasis are not aware of leaders in Delhi and Mumbai but are well acquainted with the local leaders and their corruption. Eknath Khadse, who wields power in Jalgaon district and had to resign from the state cabinet after his alleged involvement in illegal purchase of MIDC land in Pune, is among them. Suresh Jain and Gulabrao Deokar have been in jail in connection with the ‘Gharkul’ housing scheme scam in Jalgaon, which is said to be to the tune of Rs 29 crore. Also, 52 former corporators of the Jalgaon Municipal Corporation were named in the scandal. Khadse is yearning to make a comeback and has started galvanizing support in his hometown.
 
 “If the government can scrap money, why can’t it pull corrupt leaders out of politics?” Pawara adivasis question unanimously. They don’t expect an answer from anyone. 
 
 
