PATNA: The Bihar government may partner with private players to provide superior healthcare facilities in districts, as proposed by the Niti Aayog and Union ministry of health and family welfare.

 According to sources, a move has been made to set up eight multispecialty   under the public-privare partnership in Munger, Darbhanga, Gaya, Muzaffarpur, Bhagalpur, Saharsa, Purnia and   districts. 
 
 The state health department's proposal comes close on the heels of the Niti Aayog’s missive to the states in June this year. The letter to the chief secretaries sought comments on the draft model concessionaire agreement and guidelines prepared for the purpose with the help of the  .
 
 According to the guidelines, the private partner will be allotted a space of 8,500 square metres either within an existing structure of a government hospital or an open space on the premises. The private partner will be responsible for developing the facility along with necessary medical and non-medical equipment, recruiting and managing the staff and imparting postgraduate medical training.
 
 Around 25% of the beds would be regulated for which treatment and investigations rates would be determined as per the central government health schemes. 
 
 The day-to-day execution of the contract between the state and private partner will be the responsibility of the district health society. Water, electricity and sewerage network facility would be provided by the district administration. "The day-to-day running cost of the healthcare facility will be the responsibility of the private partner," said a state health official.
 
 Paras Healthcare’s MD Dr   has hailed the Niti Aayog move aimed at improving healthcare in districts. "Such efforts will definitely help in bridging the urban-rural healthcare gap," he said and added the initiative would provide an avenue to the lower middle class and economically weaker sections to access superior healthcare facilities.
 
 "This initiative in the Tier 2 and Tier 3 Cities shall also give a boost to job creation, skill development and education," said Dr Nagar.
 
