BHUBANESWAR: For the last five days, a lakh of the state's people swayed to a single rhythm. They cheered together, they sighed together, they cursed the skies together. On the track and on the field, muscles rippled while in the stands the people of an entire state were changed forever. The 22nd Asian   have ended, but its glory will be difficult to wipe from the collective memory of Odisha's sports lovers. 

 "We could have never realised that the athletics could be so entertaining. There were so many nail-biting moments. We got disappointed when we missed medals and emotional when Indian athletes kissed the tracks after winning gold. The highs and lows made for an amazing experience," said Mahendra Senapati, a spectator on the final day of the tournament. 
 
 On Sunday, the frenzy surrounding the Championships reached a crescendo. All roads led to Kalinga Stadium and inside, the galleries were jam-packed. In what is a rare sight for a sports event that does not have anything to do with cricket, hockey or football, there were long queues for tickets outside the stadium. "The championship has changed the mindset of people towards athletic sports," said Naba Kishore Mohapatra, a sports teacher at DAV Public School, Chandrasekharpur. 
 
 Mohapatra's sentiments were echoed by the R Vineel Krishna, director of sports and youth affair. "Around one lakh people witnessed the events at Kalinga Stadium during the last five days. The world-class infrastructure will help in nurturing sporting talents in the state in the days to come," said Krishna. 
 
 The state government has won hearts by completing all arrangements for the event in a record 90 days. Though the Kalinga Stadium has a capacity of 13,000, the excitement for the games reached well beyong the stands. "They were the talk of the town in the last five days. At hotels, shops, markets and tea stalls, people are talking about the Championships. Roads and markets wore a deserted look during the evening hours. The response to the games is unexpected and overwhelming," said Amit Prajna Das, an engineering student who secured a ticket for the Sunday events.
 
 The championship was also an opportunity for school children to watch and be inspired by world class athletes. 
 
