BENGALURU: From froth that covered its surface like a glacial sheet, to a raging fire that took hours to douse, the century-old   in southeast Bengaluru has been hogging headlines in the past two years, for all the wrong reasons.

 Once a serene waterbody spread across more than 900 acres in Bellandur village, the lake is today hemmed in by towering residential complexes and commercial establishments. Urban experts point out that the lake did not catch fire miraculously on Thursday. The ignition of the lake’s waters, a consequence of reaction between the chemicals, is merely an indication of the level of contamination.
 
 The residents in the vicinity of the lake have been knocking on the doors of every civic authority for the past two years – Bangalore Development Authority, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike, Lake Development Authority and the chief minister’s office – but to no avail.
 
 Over the years, the lake was conveniently transformed into a dumpyard for the city’s trash, while sewage and untreated industrial effluents found their way into its waters.
 
 A report submitted by the Karnataka State Pollution Control Board ( ), revealed that the inflow of untreated sewage to the lake had led to the froth. The report also noted the presence of a banned substance used in soaps and detergents in the lake.
 
 A hotbed of diseases
 
 *Contamination of Bellandur Lake is believed to be the cause behind infertility and diarrhoea among the cattle in the area
 
 *Residents around the lake complain of skin infection, respiratory problems among other health hazards
 
 *It has turned into a huge breeding ground for mosquitoes, leading to a spike in dengue and chikungunya cases in the area
 
 *Contamination of underground aquifers and groundwater 
 
 Sewage inflow responsible for pollution: Govt
 
 A committee constituted by the state government to look into the pollution levels at Bellandur Lake submitted its first report to the Karnataka high court on Friday. The report stated that unchecked flow of sewage into the lake from surrounding areas had resulted in the alarming pollution levels in the waterbody. “The entry of waste from all inlets has resulted in the lake getting covered with weeds,” the report read.
 
 In numbers
 
 Total Catchment area: 284sqkm
 
 Independent catchment area: 14.49sqkm.
 
 Total area: 787.15 acres
 
 Storage capacity: 388.28 million cubic feet
 
 Net storage: 323.57 million cubic feet
 
 (Source: Karnataka Government)
 
 
