HOWRAH: In yet another twist to the   unnatural death case, police have confirmed that the handwriting in the purported confessional statement signed by him on February 7 doesn’t match samples collected from his family. Authorities have now sought more samples with which to match the handwriting. Details of Chowdhury’s bank accounts have also been sought to match his signature with the one at the bottom of the statement.

 Chowdhury, a business facilitator at the   branch of  , was found dead on the railway tracks on February 9 between Uluberia and Phuleswar stations. A day earlier, businessman Somnath Ghosh had produced the purported confessional statement in Uluberia police station and lodged a complaint against Chowdhury, alleging that he swapped Rs 100 currency notes with those of Rs 1,000 and Rs 500 before depositing them in the businessman’s account. The statement, in Bengali, was allegedly written by Chowdhury in the presence of branch manager  . 
 
 The deceased was called up by the police after Ghosh’s complaint and asked to appear before the authorities. His family claimed that he got depressed ever since and demanded that the ‘confessional statement’ be tested by handwriting experts. 
 
 “Now, the police say the handwriting doesn’t match the samples collected from us. They have also sought details of my uncle’s bank account. They are trying to verify his signature and will also look into the transactions that took place during the time when all this trouble occurred,” said Chowdhury’s nephew Bappa. 
 
 This was confirmed by Sumit Kumar, SP, Howrah (Rural). “The handwriting on the statement didn’t match the samples that were collected. We have asked for more samples and these will be studied all over again by the handwriting experts.”
 
 The bank has handed over 550 hours of   footage to cops along with other documents. Cops have gone through the footage from February 9 and 10, and are now going through the February 7 footage, when Chowdhury allegedly wrote and submitted the statement. 
 
 According to Kumar, the four accused, including Dutta and Ghosh, are still absconding. Chowdhury’s family met the SP on Saturday and sounded satisfied with the investigation so far. “The police have sought some more time from us to complete the probe. The SP asked us to have faith in the police. We have been saying from the start that the handwriting won’t match. We will wait for two-three days for the police to arrive at a conclusion and arrest the accused,” said  , widow of the deceased. 
 
 
