Vadodara: Ruckus broke out at two   on Wednesday when agitated parents protested against the fee hikes and made representations against the  .

 At Vadsar-based  , scores of parents had arguments with the school management, which was insisting that the parents should pay fees of all the four quarters of the next academic year in form of   ( ) if they want admission of their wards to continue.
 
 Since two months, parents have been making representations before the school management to increase infrastructural facilities if it wants to hike fees by 10 percent. Parents also alleged that students of class nine and class X, whose parents had not paid the fees, were made to stand in open under scorching heat on Tuesday under the garb of holding ‘yoga’ classes – an allegation that the school management refuted. 
 
 Last week, the parents had a meeting with Lina Ashar, founder and chairperson of the international school chain, in which the parents had demanded that the school needs to increase facilities like transportation of kids, safety in school premises, maintaining proper hygiene if it wants to introduce fee hike. 
 
 On Wednesday, the parents had decided to pay fees of only one quarter in form of post dated cheque and demand a time frame within which the infrastructure facilities are added at the school. “But the school officials insisted that we will have to submit PDCs of all quarters,” said Ailush Surve, a parent. 
 
 Parents alleged that although the school management is claiming that it is hiking the fees only by ten percent, in actual terms the fee hike ranges from 15 % to 30 %. School principal Dr Priti Shrimal however refuted the allegations that students were being punished for non-payment of fees. 
 
 “We had given them a deadline to pay the fees. It is a policy decision that they have to make one time payment and there is an intimation given to them whenever PDCs are deposited. Last year, too, we had followed the same procedure,” she said, adding that parents have been assured that all the necessary infrastructure will be added at the school premises. 
 
 At Ambe Vidyalaya, Karelibaug, around 200 parents submitted a memorandum to school principal Jyoti Shah, demanding that the school should roll back the fee hike. 
 
 “On Saturday, we will be holding another round of meeting to decide over the next course of action even as we have given the school management time till Monday to rethink about its decision,” said a parent, adding that although the management is claiming that it is increasing fees by 10 percent, in actual terms the hike comes to 15 to 20 percent. 
 
