At least for some time, that moment will remain etched in memory.
 
  Playing the opening round match of the   U-16 Championship against United Arab Emirates (UAE) last year in Goa, India seemed up against a wall, when they won a free-kick just outside the box on the left. It seemed too acute an angle to even test the goalkeeper but Sanjeev Stalin, India’s left-back and free-kick specialist, had other ideas.
  
  He just rolled the ball to his captain, Suresh Singh, positioned a couple of feet away, and then curled it into the top corner on the right. It was a goal that set the stadium alight and made the hosts believe, despite the odds, they had a chance.
  
  Sanjeev, now an influential member of India’s squad for next month’s   U-17 World Cup, continues to practice free-kicks during training, and should he get another chance from such a range, you can bet your last penny that the rival goalkeeper wouldn’t have it easy.
  
  “The problem is nobody knows about Indian football. Nobody knows how good we can play. When the World Cup kicks off, you will see the difference in the way we play football. Everyone will know that India can play  ,” Sanjeev told TOI at the team hotel last week.
  
  When the World Cup kicks off next month, India will perhaps need a moment of brilliance to bring spark into their contest. Sanjeev perhaps can provide that.
  
  He has been doing that since he was a child.
  
  “I really don’t remember when I started playing football but I can say for certain that I was born to play football. My father (Stalin) represented Karnataka at the youth level, but he never went on to become the footballer that he always dreamed of becoming. He is my hero and I want to realise that dream he had. It’s my dream too,” said the confident-sounding full-back.
  
  He’s done well so far. A product of Chandigarh FA – who also produced captain Amarjit Singh – Sanjeev impressed during a friendly with AIFF Academy and was soon drafted among the under-17 reserves. A bout of viral fever meant he spent two weeks in hospital but when he recovered, he caught Nicolai Adam’s eyes during the coach’s surprise visit to the reserve camp.
  
  Since then he has been an integral part of the team, now held in high esteem by new coach Luis Norton de Matos. In fact, Sanjeev was among the four players the Portuguese coach believed had the potential to lead India at the World Cup. There was a poll and Sanjeev finished fourth behind Amarjit Singh, Jeetendra Singh and Suresh Singh.
  
  “I don’t think anyone can deny that there is considerable pressure. We are all representing India at the World Cup for the first time, so pressure is inevitable. But from the training and exposure we have had, we should be able to handle the pressure,” said Sanjeev, whose parents run a small shop on the footpath of Bengaluru, owned by his uncle.
