Madurai:   aficionados in Madurai and other southern districts showed their determination to conduct the traditional bull-taming sport held in the month of Thai every year by defying the Supreme Court’s ban at many places and keeping the police on their toes.

 The first game of the season is held in Avaniapuram in the district every year, which is within the city limits. On Saturday, a large number of people including members of the film fraternity like director Gowthaman gathered there and staged a protest demanding the right to conduct the game. While police blocked the ‘Vaadivasal’, the gate of the bull-taming arena, some bulls were unleashed and tamed by youngsters on a dry tank bed where they had established a makeshift Vaadivasal. Tension prevailed when police arrived at the spot and forcefully evacuated the protesting public. Meanwhile, 68 people, including those from Alanganallur who attempted to stage a road roko demanding a ban on PETA, were arrested by the police.
 
 Sunday began with a large protest at Palamedu, about 14 kilometres from the city, where thousands of people took out a procession along with brightly decorated temple bulls in protest demanding the right to hold jallikattu. When they neared the ‘Vaadivasal’, some of the bulls were unleashed while bull tamers followed them conducting the game briefly. It was brought under control when the Madurai Superintendent of Police Vijeyendra S Bidari and police personnel came to the spot. The SP said, `` Everything is under control and we are taking all steps to honour the Supreme Court’s ruling’’. Fifteen checkposts had been established to ensure that cattle and outsiders did not come to Palamedu and Alanganallur, and a large posse of police personnel pressed into action.
 
 Shops downed shutters in Palamedu and Alanganallur, where people observed a ``black Pongal’’ as an uneasy calm prevailed in the region. Meanwhile, a brightly decorated ‘Vaadivasal’ in Alanganallur was blocked with barricades by the police personnel. Police also warned the owners of the jallikattu bulls that they would have to face stringent action if they unleashed their bulls. The police installed CCTVs at many places as an additional security measure. People in Anaiyur in Madurai were able to conduct a larger game when they unleashed about 15 bulls on the streets as eager tamers successfully removed the prizes that were tied to the horns of the bulls. Police arrived at the spot and asked the people to returned to their homes even as they picked up two people for questioning.
 
 In other southern districts including Sivaganga, the organisers managed to bring bulls from surrounding villages like Singampunari and Kalapur to the makeshift arenas set up on dry tank beds. Many bulls were unleashed and hundreds of people participated in the event, before the police arrived at the scene.
 
 
