MUMBAI: A defective electric circuit resulted in the huge blaze that destroyed a major part of the iconic Stage 1of   a fortnight ago, the fire brigade's investigation has revealed. Fire brigade authorities also issued a show-cause notice on Wednesday to the fouracre property's owners, the  , for not complying with fire safety measures.

 Hindi cinema's showman   built RK Studios in Chembur in 1950; it is currently managed by his family.
 
 The fire broke out after sparks from the defective cable came into contact with combustible material like the surrounding switches and cables, cloth and wooden planks, a senior fire official said.
 
 "The defective electric circuit used for lighting arrangements at the ceiling level might have been running above the curtains. It came into contact with combustible material, led to the fire and added to its severity," said the officer.
 
 Fire officials said an automatic sprinkler system, alarm systems, a public address system and automatic smoke detectors were not provided though the fire safety requirements of 2014 are clear these are needed. Also, the "insufficient" underground water storage tank could provide water for firefighting for only 30 minutes while ideally water should have lasted for two hours.
 
 When the fire broke out on September 16, it was initially noticed by a spot boy of the production team. He raised an alert, and workers on the spot started trying to extinguish the fire. But the flames spread rapidly owing to the combus tible stuff, the officer said. After the blaze had spread over a substantial part, workers tried using the courtyard hydrant to put out the flames. The absence of smoke detectors and sprinklers and time taken by the spot boy to inform others led to delay in calling the fire brigade, the officer added.
 
 Fire officers said their report also states they found the studio had not complied with fire safety requirements under the Maharashtra Fire Prevention and Life Safety Measures Act, 2006, yet the premises was occupied and used for film shoots and other activities, which was `illegal.' They have proposed cancellation of a provisional   given in 2014. The fire brigade has requested M-West ward officials to visit the premises and verify if similar deficiencies exist in other parts of the studio; if violations are found, fire authorities can demand disconnection of water and electricity.
 
 Chief fire officer PS Rahangdale called non-compliance of fire safety norms a serious violation. "We have asked ward officials to inspect the rest of the premises. If there is non-compliance, action will be taken," he said. He added, "It is high time safety norms are taken seriously .While the premises was gutted, an incident like this one could have endangered lives."
 
 No one was hurt in the fire as there was no shoot that day. RK Studios' representative Kishore Darekar said they were yet to receive the notice. "We were in the process of upgrading safety equipment." he said.
 
