KOCHI: The relatives of a youth who died at the   after being admitted there with complaints of stomach ache have accused the hospital of  .

 Jerin Michael (25), a sound engineering student at a private institute at Pachalam here was taken to the hospital around 6.30am on Saturday following severe stomach ache. He died around 11.20pm without being attended to by the on call surgeon, his relatives told police.
 
 Edathala police have registered a case under Section 174 of the CrPC, based on the statement of the deceased’s relatives. “The relatives have alleged medical negligence. An FIR of unnatural death has been registered. We are waiting for the postmortem report to determine whether there was any negligence involved. We will proceed accordingly based on the autopsy report,” said Kalamassery CI, S Jayakrishnan.
 
 According to Sheffin, a friend and neighbour of Jerin who was at the hospital as a bystander, Jerin was given a prescribed injection at 1pm only after he went inside the nursing station and insisted for the same. 
 
 “When I reached the hospital around 1pm, he was in severe pain. The nurses administered an injection after I asked them, as if they suddenly remembered it,” said Sheffin.
 
 The hospital authorities had told me that Jerin would require a surgery for appendicitis, he said. “They told me that an urgent operation would need more payment and the same could be done free of cost if we waited for three days,” said Sheffin.
 
 Vyshak Thevakkal, another friend of Jerin, said he started having seizures at night and there was no medical attention.
 
 “The attenders asked his relatives to shake him till the seizure stop. This happened thrice and nothing was done. When the seizure repeated the fourth time, it was severe and the attenders wrapped him inside a bedsheet and tried to carry him to the ICU. However, when they reached the lift, it was not working. By the time they climbed the stairs with him it was too late,” said Sheffin.
 
 Meanwhile, medical college principal Dr V K Sreekala said that they had intimated the police after the death and suggested an autopsy as the cause of death was unknown, even before the complaints were raised. 
 
 “A decision whether or not to conduct a surgery was not taken. Procedures were followed. Director of medical education (DME) has ordered a probe and the hospital will cooperate with the same,” said Dr Sreekala.
 
 Various political outfits staged a protest outside the medical college seeking action against the culprits, on Sunday. The youth’s body was later sent to   for autopsy.
 
 
