NEW DELHI: The assembly petition committee chairman and MLA from GK   on Thursday asked what about the various committees was   BJP so nervous that it was seeking to have their powers curtailed.

 “These House committees are looking into matters of health, unauthorised colonies, roads, drains, etc., to whether money is being spent properly and to make officials accountable. The MLAs are not putting pressure on officials for unauthorised works. We are not asking for personal favours or illegal allotment of land. The committees are carrying out works of public interest,” he said.
 
 The MLA said that among the work carried out by the committees was an assessment of the requirement of sewage treatment plants worth several crores in a location where they were probably not even needed. “We have looked into payments made for desilting of drains where no work has been done, whether hospitals are following the norms for EWS admissions and, if not, which official is responsible for it. Recently, we came across a massive scam in a cooperative bank in Delhi after which action was taken against illegal members. If the committees are doing work in public interest, what is the LG’s problem? Is he only trying to protect some officials by sending them on leave when they are summoned by the committees? Why are these officials feeling so much pressure when they have done nothing wrong?” he added.
 
 Sanjiv Jha, a member of the committee that inspected drains to verify claims of desilting, said each year PWD and MCD gave reports of 100% desilting, on the basis of which huge amounts of money was spent. 
 
 “This year we inspected drains and found that against the claims of these agencies, barely any work had been done. It was only after the committee put pressure was any work carried out. If the officials are working because of the pressure of the committees, the LG should be happy.”
 
 In the meantime, the opposition leader, BJP’s Vijender Gupta, has asked for a special session so that the LG’s message could be read out. 
 
 
