CHENNAI: Of the 2,503   in 22 government   in the state, just two seats went to government school students this year.Three more government school students have made it to government-quota seats in self-financing medical colleges. Last year, a total of 30 MBBS seats were bagged by government school students.
Data released by state selection committee, which was incharge of medical and dental admissions, shows the number of government school students joining medical colleges was an abysmal 0.14% this year, a steep 80% fall compared to 30 seats in 2016 admissions. While the 2017 NEET-based admission drastically brought down the number of students from private schools in Namakkal, Krishnagiri and Erode regions, it almost completely eliminated students from government schools. This year's cut-off for ad mission to government medical colleges in the ST category was 161, in SC, 191, and SC (Arunthathiyar), 145.In self-financing colleges, the STSCSCA cut-offs were 146, 178 and 140 respectively . Earlier this year, senior educationalists like Kalyani argued that the test would help students from government schools, as they learn the syllabus from both classes and could take the test in their mother tongue.
 
 In May , more than 15,000 of the 83,000 students from   took the test in Tamil. In June, CBSE announced that 32,570 students from the state cleared the test -they scored at least 131720 in OC category and at 107720 in reserved category .
 
 While anti-NEET activists in the state argue against NEET quoting disadvantage to government school students, officials from the Union health ministry and the   argue that NEET-based admissions have shown that the standard of education -both syllabus and teaching methodology -should be upgraded.
 
 “It is clear evidence that the state should improve quality of education,“ said MCI VP Dr C V Bhirmanandam. Officials in the selection committee argued that Tamil Nadu's overall performance was not poor.
 
 “It is unfair to compare NEET scores with Class XII marks. If you look at only NEET scores, the lowest admission marks were 140,“ said selection committee secretary Dr G Selvarajan.
 
