NAGPUR: The   has started the enrolment of graduates for election of 10 registered graduates to the Senate. This time, the applicants need to fill the forms online and submit the print outs along with the fee at the university office.

 The university has launched a separate portal www.rtmnuelection2017.org for the registration, guidelines, statutes, directions and ‘Form A’.
 
 The higher and technical education department had released the uniform statute for registration of graduates as per the new universities Act.
 
 According to the uniform statute, graduates need to apply to the registrar in the prescribed form and supporting documents. They also need to submit degree certificate and proof of residence such as Aadhaar card, election card etc.
 
 After receiving the applications, the university will be enter the names of qualified persons in the register.
 
 As per the statute, faculty of graduates need to be clearly mentioned in the register.
 
 Hence, the Nagpur University has simultaneously notified Direction 16 that lays procedure for registration of graduates and Direction 15 regarding constitution of faculties.
 
 As per Direction 16, 10 registered graduates of whom one each shall be from SC, ST, De-notified Tribes or Nomadic Tribe, Other Backward Classes and one woman would be elected to Senate.
 
 An election cell has also been formed with two coordinators, including former registrar  .
 
 Vice-Chancellor SP Kane said, “The elections could be held in September because the enrolment process and preparation of voters list would take time. We would hold elections to Senate, Board of Studies and Academic Council in a single day. Currently, the registration had started and later the voter’s list would be updated.”
 
 The elections to statutory bodies were held up for over two years because of the formulation of the new varsities Act. 
 
 The graduates will get one month time for registration, while 15 days would be need to ready the voters list. There will be no extension for registration.
 
 The candidates will have to fill in nomination form, followed by scrutiny, validity and nomination withdrawal. The elections would be done through ballot papers.
 
 (Reporting by  )
 
