LUDHIANA: A police inspector allegedly faced the wrath of six businessmen after he chased down two of them who had earlier tried to hit him with their car under the influence of liquor at a check post near Moti Nagar on Friday.

 Traders thrashed Moti Nagar police station SHO Hussan Lal. He was admitted to Ludhiana civil hospital with several injuries. Though there were 15 men who allegedly assaulted the cop, only six accused have been identified. The accused were Rakesh Kapoor, his son Arshit Ka poor, Hari Om, Sikandar Malik, Saggar Malik and   (all of Moti Nagar area), who owned auto parts businesses.
 
 Additional deputy commissioner of police (IV) Sandeep Sharma said the SHO had set up a check post near Gole market in Moti Nagar. At around 1.30 am on Friday, a speeding Innova driven by Rakesh Kapoor and his friend Hari Om (who were reportedly drunk) tried to hit the officer at the naka.
 
 He said as the MUV sped away without halting at the post, the SHO got suspicious.Five cops in two vehicles followed the car, which made several rounds of different parts of the city for an hour.
 
 The ADCP said when the police party was chasing the MUV, Rakesh and Hari Om allegedly made a call to their relatives and asked them to gather at a particular spot.He said the car finally stopped near a retail store on Chandigarh Road and the duo got into a white col oured Mercedes. By that time, the SHO and two other cops also reached the spot.
 
 As the SHO asked the duo to come out of the vehicle, a group of 14 persons ar med with rods came to the spot and thrashed him after snatching his service weapon and mobile phone. The ADCP added that other cops rescued him with great difficulty and rushed him to the civil hospital.
 
 “The officer received injuries in eyes and head. His condition is stable,“ the officer said. “We recovered the service weapon of officer after arresting Sikandar and his sons from their house in  .“
 
 The officer said Rakesh Kapoor and Hari Om have been booked for attempt to murder and others have been booked under Sections 379B (snatching), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty), 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon) and 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object) of IPC and various sections of  . The ADCP said they are scanning the footage of CCTV cameras in the area to identify other miscreants. He added a case was registered on the statement of the SHO.
 
 The police officer said Rakesh Kapoor, Hari Om, Sikandar Malik, Saggar Malik and Karan Malik have been arrested. Police have launched a manhunt to arrest the remaining accused.One the businessman allegedly involved in the incident, Rakesh Kapoor claimed that the cops were levelling false allegations against them.“Police party chased down one of his relatives when he was returning from a party after which the police team came outside the restaurant and started harassing our kids who were sitting in the parking. They even manhandled them. When we got know that the cops were thrashing our kids, all of us came out and tried to save them.“
 
 “When the policemen realised that they were at fault and anger was brewing among the people standing there, they fled the spot. In the process, the SHO dropped his pistol,“ he added.
 
