NAVI MUMBAI: Nearly 10 days after a 23-year-old newly married woman from Worli was murdered and her body hacked into parts, police have found the limbs packed in a plastic bag and hidden behind bushes on   following the arrest of four persons, including her husband and parents-in-law. With the help of a youth allegedly hired by her husband's family to dispose of the body, the investigators searched for her head on Kalyan Road till late Saturday . The search will resume on Sunday.

 The crime came to light on May 6 when police recovered her torso from Mahape nullah. “The victim was identified as Priyanka Gurav after we advertised in newspapers about a torso being found and published a shoulder tattoo of 'Om with Ganpati'. The tattoo was identified by the victim's elder sister. The victim was staying with her before getting married to Siddhesh Gurav (23), an HR executive at an IT major in Vikhroli, on April 30 after a three-year relationship,“ said inspector Pramod   of   police, who are probing the case along with Navi Mumbai crime branch. Siddhesh and his parents--Manohar (49), a sweeper in PWD office at Worli, and   (45)--had just shifted from Dombivli to the PWD quarters in Worli camp.As the woman was murdered within four days of her marriage, police suspected the hand of her husband's family.
 
 “We summoned her husband and parents-in-law. They claimed a missing person's complaint was lodged at Worli police station on May 6 as she did not return home after going for an interview on May 5.However, when they were grilled individually, their lies were nailed. Her mobile tower location showed it to be at their home on May 5 but the body was decomposed, indicating the murder happened earlier,“ said senior inspector   dish Kulkarni of Navi Mumbai crime branch. “The call data records of her husband and parents-in-law led us to Durgesh (25) of Dombivli whom they hired to dispose of the body,“ the officer added.
 
 Inspector Roman said, “The woman was murdered on May 4 night. Her in-laws smothered her with a pillow when she was asleep and the youth chopped her body. On May 5, he dumped the torso in Mahape nullah, limbs on Shilphata Road and the head on Kalyan Road.“
 
 Inspector Jadhav said, “Siddhesh and his parents planned the murder as she forced him to marry her. He was avoiding her after a three-year relationship. Due to her pressure, they agreed to the marriage. But four days after marriage, they killed her.“
 
