NEW DELHI: For almost two decades, it hugged the sides of two highway inclines on the  , an unlikely temple where Hanuman devotees driving past stopped on a whim and spent a few spiritual minutes. The expansion of   has, however, left it like an oasis in the middle of concrete and tar and the authorities, newly resolved to deal with the many shrines located on public land in the capital, want the temple to make way for the sprawling roadway.

 “Our founder used to meditate on this spot beside the Yamuna in 1960, when the bridge did not even exist, but they are calling us illegal,” fumed Shankar Chetan, who heads the Hanuman Temple. On Wednesday, members of Vishwa Hindu Parishad and   and people from neighbouring bastis gathered there to foil any demolition. Police could not do much besides move a few tin sheets.
 
 RS Sharma, the designated sewak of the temple, who has lived there since 1978, agitatedly said, “The union ministry of road transport and highways issued us a notice on July 1 and asked us to remove the temple structure within seven days. How is that possible? Mahatmas have spent their whole life building it brick by brick.”
 
 Mahant Shankar Chetan, however, struck a more reconciliatory tone and said, “We don’t want to come in the way of development. We will gladly shift if the temple is moved along with thedeity to another place onthe banks of Yamunaji.”
 
 NHAI officials told TOI that the case of the temple had been considered by a committee under Delhi government that deals with religious structures and was approved for demolition.
 
 Jointly managed by Shankar Chetan, mahant of the Agni Akhara from Farrukhabad, and Mahesh Chetan, the temple was, according to them, built by their guru Kulhaadi Chetan in 1962. The outer walls of the 435- square-metre complex are covered with glazed tiles inscribed with the name of Lord Ram and the sanctum sanctorum has meticulous glass work.
 
 The structure is deceptive, for while it looks cozy, you find steps leading down to two spacious rooms, a verandah where pilgrims can rest, a room dedicated to Lord Shiva and, amazingly, even a gaushala, where on Wednesday two cows munched at fodder.
 
 The place has no legal electricity connection, though its electrical appliances, a refrigerator included, lack for no power. They draw energy from the lines laid down in 2010 for the   Villages a few kilometres away.
 
 This is not the first expansion of the highway. In 1999, a second bridge was added with the aid of the Japanese government. This had left the temple in the middle of the two inclined portions of the highway.
 
