Lakhs of investors have turned to   ( ) of mutual funds in recent months. SIP inflows have increased rapidly — investors pump in close to Rs 4,500 crore every month through this option, compared to just Rs 1,200 crore a month in early 2014. The average ticket size of a SIP has also jumped from Rs 1,800 to Rs 3,200 per month.

 At the same time, some investors are feeling concerned about investing when markets are close to all-time highs. SIPs help the investor average his cost over a period of time, fetching more units when prices are low and fewer units when prices are high. In the current scenario, the SIP investor will accumulate units at higher prices, which will push up his average cost of purchase. Therefore, some investors want to sit out and wait for the markets to correct. Should you also stop your ongoing SIPs to avoid buying at high prices?
 
 
  with long-term experience in the market. Over the years, these individuals have learned to ignore the market noise and continue their SIPs month after month. This discipline has helped them build an impressive corpus, letting them achieve key goals.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Pune-based Srinivas Malladi took a few missteps at the start of his investing journey before figuring out the right approach. His first brush with equity funds was in 2000 when he invested in a couple of schemes. But his patience ran out after just a few years and he sold his funds at a marginal gain, only to realise his folly as the markets started inching up after 2003. Mallady quickly changed tack, committing to a steady, long-term approach. He has since persisted with regular SIP and continues even today .
 
 The market tested his resolve at times, but Mallady trudged on, intent on not repeating past mistakes. His continued focus has helped him save enough for his daughter's higher education and also fund lifestyle spends like buying a car and enjoying yearly vacations. He is also saving for his retirement.
 
 This would not have been possible had Mallady stopped his SIPs midway. Terminating SIPs not only breaks the power of compounding, it also leads to a shortfall in the corpus.  , Founder and CEO, Getting You Rich, says, “It is simple: if your goals are not yet achieved, your savings have to continue.“
 
 Advisers believe SIPs keep emotions at bay and inculcate a savings habit.“Regular investing, and not market timing, is the key to long-term wealth creation,“ asserts Vivek Rege, Founder and CEO, VR Wealth Advisors.
 
 
 
 
 Some investors are intimidated by the huge amount they need to save for some goals. For instance, someone in his 30s, will require a nest egg of Rs 5 crore after 25-30 years. This requires an SIP of Rs 16,229 per month. Not everyone can direct such a large amount to savings in the initial phase of their career. But one can generate the same corpus by increasing the SIP amount by 10% every year. Isidorio Fernandes started investing with an SIP of Rs 2,000. He now invests Rs 60,000 a month. “The beauty of SIP is that you can start with as low as Rs 500 and gradually increase the amount,“ he says.
 
 
 
 
 SIPs should not make investors adopt a “fill it, shut it, forget it“ approach. SIP investing is not only about selecting a good set of funds and then waiting for the profits to roll in. “Some of the chart toppers a decade ago are now in the bottom quartile of performance,“ says Vidya Bala, Head of Mutual Fund Re search, FundsIndia. The difference between good and bad performers can be enormous over the long term. If an investor does not review his portfolio but continues with poor funds, he may miss the target corpus for his goals.
 
 “The first stage should be to stop SIPs in poor performers and start in good ones. The next stage should be to decide whether to exit the underperformers altogether,“ says Bala. Often, investors do not completely exit underperformers when switching to another fund. This can lead to a bloated fund portfolio that becomes difficult to manage. M. Pattabiraman, a personal finance blogger and author, says: “Do not treat your SIPs as regular payments to be made like an insurance premium. You should ruthlessly eliminate poor funds from the portfolio.“
 
  
  
 
 
 Experts also caution investors against building high expectations from their SIPs. The SIP is not some magic pill that can deliver under any market circumstances. “It is likely that a SIP started recently will take significantly longer to show a healthy return.However, those who have already accumulated savings through this route for many years may not see a significant impact,“ argues Shah. It would be better to invest as per a pre-decided asset allocation, experts insist. “If you allow substantial drift in your asset allocation, then even the SIP approach will not prevent you from taking a hit from over-exposure to a single asset class,“ cautions Rege. If your exposure to equities exceeds the desired level, you can shift part of it to the fixed income asset class.
 
 
 
 
 SIPs are not forever. It is important to have a time-frame to each SIP based on your goals. “It ensures that a financial goal is met in time, with the least amount of stress,“ says Chintan Haria, Fund Manager and Head, Product Development & Strategy, ICICI Prudential Mutual Fund. Goal-based investing also helps you select the right category of funds and the required equity-to-debt   proportion.“It allows you to be conservative or aggressive depending upon the goal,“ says Harsha Upadhyaya, CIO (Equity), Kotak Mutual Fund. If the goal is too close, stay away from equities. If it is very long term put more in equities. “It helps you not only in the initial years but also in the middle and end sections of the investment tenure--when the exposure to equity should be lower,“ says Pattabiraman.
 
