Visakhapatnam: From walks-for-a-cause, rallies-for-a-reason to marathons, cyclathons, Visakha Utsav, food fests, cultural events, devotional programmes and religious processions, all events seems to be happening at Beach Road, especially the two-kilometre stretch from RK Beach to YMCA.

 Highly inconvenienced by air and noise pollution and risk of road accidents, dwellers along Beach Road call for decongesting the stretch and minimising the number of events especially on weekends. Some of them are planning to meet the city police commissioner and request the civic authorities on putting a curb to the events.
 
 D Aparna, a teacher and resident of Sagar-View Apartment beside the Kali Temple said, “The Beach Road, especially near RK Beach is turning out to be a slum area. Recently, a three-day food fest was held on RK Beach. Non-stop blaring of film music continued till late night until some of us complained to the police. There are old and ailing people living in these apartments who require sleep. Moreover, whenever there’s some early morning events on Beach Road, a stage is erected at around 2 am causing a lot of disturbance. It’s high time that some events are shifted to other parks and auditoriums from Beach Road.”
 
 Patanjali Sandilya, secretary of Balaji Towers building in Kirlampudi Layout, Beach Road, complained about the noise and traffic congestion created by these events. “After working all week, even on weekends we have no respite. Especially on Sundays, we are forced to wake up early due to loudspeakers belting out high-pitch music on the stage erected opposite YMCA, for people to participate in aerobics and exercise. There are also gatherings by groups conducting rallies and awareness walks, especially on weekend mornings. 
 
 The events should be spread out to other parts of the city such as Shilparamam, Vuda Children’s Theatre and Central Park and other parts of the Beach Road such as towards Coastal Battery or Rushikonda rather than the RK Beach stretch.”
 
 Environmentalist and resident of Pandurangapuram Sohan Hatangadi said vehicles frequently over-speed on Panduranga Temple Road. “Many accidents take place at night here when bikes with engine switched off and no lights speed down this road. Low height rumblers on this road can be put so that drivers are alerted. There’s also a need to decongest the Beach Road junction at Spencers. Due to bottlenecking of traffic there by parked vehicles, it’s a potential hazard,” he said.
 
 
