BHUBANESWAR: A day after agriculture minister   cited marital discord as the possible reason behind suicide of a farmer in   last month, widow of the farmer on Sunday disputed the minister's claim. 
Talking to reporters, who visited her village on Sunday, Kalabati, widow of   Bagarti, 55, surprised as to how the government knew the reason when no officials visited her. 
 
 "We never got into any discord. No officials visited my home after death of my husband. How the minister cited domestic quarrel as the reason behind his suicide?" Kalabati asked. She also rubbished the minister's claim that Khainu had a normal harvest this year. "We suffered crop loss due to unavailability of water, which led to the frustration," she added.
 
 Khainu died at the Vimsar, Burla, on February 27. Making a statement in the assembly on Saturday, the agriculture minister said Khainu consumed pesticide following a discord with his wife over use of fertiliser in their land on February 26. He was taken to the Bargarh district headquarters hospital and later to the Vimsar as his condition deteriorated, Maharathy stated. 
 
 Talking to reporters over Kalabati's allegations, Maharathy said he had made the statement in the assembly on the basis of a report submitted by the district collector, Bargarh. "I never twisted any fact," he told reporters here. 
 
 Contacted, collector (Bargarh) Anjan Kumar Manik said the district administration submitted the report to the state government on the basis of a joint inquiry by Bargarh tehsildar and assistant agriculture officer. "Since I was on leave, I am not aware of the contents of the report. The additional district magistrate and SP (Bargarh) jointly signed the report, which was submitted to the state government," Manik said.
 
 The   mounted attack on the state government over Maharathy's statement in the assembly. "The statement of the minister in the assembly is unfortunate. It is an insult to Khainu and his family," said  , state president of the BJP kisan morcha. The farmers' cell of the BJP also announced to burn Maharathy's effigy in each district headquarters on March 7. 
 
