NEW DELHI: After two major Maoist attacks in   claimed the lives of 37   personnel, the home ministry has told the   government that jawans of the central force would would venture into the deep jungles in the naxal-infested areas only when the state government provides one third component of the operational team.

 Absence of local police and administrative help in anti-Maoist operations in Chhattisgarh was raised during the May 8 meeting here when the issue of the state’s vulnerability to such violence cropped up.
 
 The CRPF brass informed that Chhattisgarh is the only one among the 10 naxal-infested states where it has become the primary force to conduct operations despite the fact that its personnel are drawn mostly from other regions and are not fully aware of the terrain, culture and conduct of the local people.
 
 Venturing into an unknown territory without understanding the local/tribal language, CRPF men often become easy target of Maoists.
 
 Officials say that CRPF teams venturing deep inside the jungle in Maoist-hit areas in Chhattisgarh don’t have any component from the local police. 
 
 “If there are 20-30 men from local police, who are equally trained and have better knowledge of the terrain, the alertness level will increase. It often gets difficult for CRPF personnel to spot the suspects among the locals or understand the language of a tribal due to which they could be misguided to a trap,” said an officer.
 
 In  , Telangana and even   and Odisha, most of the anti-naxal operations are conducted by local police and CRPF only provides assistance.
 
 Former CRPF DG K   told TOI: “It should be a joint effort. The local administration or police has to own up to the problem and CRPF is always there to assist them. 
 
 In Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, either Greyhounds or local police conduct the operations. In fact, CRPF has to ask them to be involved in the operations.
 
 They (local police) have knowledge of area, people and their culture. That is how Andhra Pradesh and Telangana have been able to solve the naxal problem to a larger extent.”
 
