CHENNAI: With the union government withdrawing the subsidy given to state governments for supplying sugar through PDS (public distribution system) from April 1 and off-take being impacted by the protests against soft drink brands, sugar consumption would drop by 3.5% in the 2016-17 season (October-September).

 Sugar consumption would decline to around 24 million tonnes in the current season, estimates showed. “This is likely to be driven by a lower off-take of sugar from the PDS, short-term consumption loss post demonetisation as well as impacted demand from bulk consumers such as soft drink manufacturers, bakeries, confectioners, hotels and restaurants, which account for around 60%-70% of milled sugar demand,” ratings agency ICRA said.
 
 The union government has withdrawn the Rs 4,500-crore subsidy for state governments who distribute subsidised sugar through the PDS applicable from 2017-18. “Sugar sales and off-take from sugar mills is substantially lower as compared to last year,” Indian Sugar Mills’ Association (ISMA) said. “We have already received reports from all sugar mills, and noted that up to end of January, sales by sugar mills has been lower by 7.5 lakh tonnes,” it said. 
 
 The anticipated lower demand by state governments and drop in sugar purchase by the bulk consumers would impact consumption, ISMA stated. ISMA expects that the sugar sales in the current season to be between 23.8 million and 24 million tonnes.
 
 “Apart from these short-term developments which have impacted the off-take in the current year, increasing health consciousness among consumers is likely to impact the off-take of certain food products such as white sugar and oils in the long run,” ICRA said.
 
 “Several F&B (food and beverages) manufacturers such as beverage bottlers and confectionery players have already stated their intent to reduce the amount of sugar content in their products in the near to medium term,” it said.
 
 The drop in demand impact is unlikely to affect the sugar prices and profitability trends in the current season as the impact of the decline in the domestic sugar consumption is likely to be more than offset by a higher-than-expected decline in sugar production, observers said.
 
 Sugar production would be only around 20.3 million tonnes, ISMA estimated. Sugar production is expected to be lower than consumption by around 3-3.5 million tonnes. This would result in closing stocks at around 4- 4.2 million tonnes, which would be sufficient to meet the requirement of around two months of domestic consumption.
 
 
