PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: There is a strong possibility of further water cuts in the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation limits.

 Reason: it is currently utilizing more than its allotted share of  . Officials said the decision on further water cuts would be taken by the new civic office-bearers.
 
 The areas under the civic body are supplied water twice a day under normal circumstances. As of now, they are getting water once a day.
 
 Pimpri Chinchwad is entirely dependent on water from Pavana dam to meet its drinking water needs. The dam’s capacity is 9.62 TMC. The water released from Pavana dam is stored at Ravet bund and purified at   before being supplied to the city. 
 
 Pavana dam was full following  . But its storage has declined to 56.19%. Remaining water must be used judiciously for the next six months.
 
 Section engineer of the irrigation department in charge of Pavana dam Manohar Khade said, “The department is releasing 28 to 30 million cubic feet (mcft) water daily from the dam.   alone lifts 17 to 18 mcft. The remaining water is used by downstream villages, towns and MIDC, while some of it is lost through evaporation and percolation. There is 4,460 mcft water in the dam now. Of it, we will need 4,110 mcft for downstream areas.”
 
 According to Khade, the department will periodically monitor the dam-level and take a decision about   to ensure the stock lasts till July. “We have to use the water judiciously as per our policy until July 15, 2017, when the monsoon starts filling up the dam,” he said.
 
 The population of Pimpri Chinchwad city was around 5.17 lakh as per the 1991 census. It increased to 17.27 lakh as per the 2011 census. The present population is around 20 to 22 lakh. The drinking water needs of the city have increased over the past 27 years.
 
 Ravindra Dudhekar, the chief of water supply department in PCMC, told TOI, “The irrigation department has allotted 413 MLD of water in the Pavana dam to PCMC to meet its drinking water needs. But due to the growing population and their needs, we are lifting around 450 to 460 MLD water paying additional charges to the irrigation department.”
 
 He said, “Considering the norm that 135 litres of water is needed by a person per day, the quantum of 450 MLD water is more than sufficient to meet the needs of 22 lakh population. But we are supplying 200 litres per person in some areas, while some areas are receiving less.”
 
 Refusing to specifically talk about the quantum of water cut to be imposed, Dudhekar said, “Summer has just begun and there is more than 50% water in the dam. If we use the water judiciously, it may suffice till July 31, 2017. The municipal elections have just been held and the new civic office-bearers are yet to settle down. If the irrigation department directs us to impose a water cut, the commissioner will take the decision.”
 
