NEW DELHI: Pakistan's army chief is now blaming India for Islamabad's inability or unwillingness to act against terror that's been 
  .

 "We are fully aware of Indian design and her support to terrorism in Pakistan and the region," Bajwa said, according to a press release issued by the media wing of Pakistan's armed forces, which said the army chief was addressing troops at the Line of Control (LoC) in the Mattewala, Munaawar Sector. 
 
 Even as he exhorted his troops to "respond effectively" to what he called India's "unprovoked" ceasefire violations, Bajwa said these alleged violations are part of a deliberate "design" on India's part.
 
  "At one hand, the ceasefire violations by Indian forces are an effort to divert world's attention from its atrocities against innocent Kashmiris, while on the other hand it is an attempt to dilute our response against terrorism and militancy," Bajwa said, according to the press release issued by Inter-Services Public relations.
 
 
 
 
  
 
 Bajwa cited the example of 
  as one of the ways in which India is allegedly undermining Pakistan's efforts to stem terror there. 
 
 "Kulbhushan Yadev (Jadhav) is one such evidence of these efforts and his case will be taken to the logical conclusion," Bajwa said. 
 
 Jadhav was reportedly arrested in   last March. India has since acknowledged Jadhav is a retired Indian Navy officer, but has denied the allegation that he was in any way connected to the government.
 
  In fact, just in December, Sartaj Aziz, foreign affairs advisor to Pakistani's Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif told the Pakistani Senate that Yadav's dossier 
  that he was a spy.
 
 "It (the dossier) did not have any conclusive evidence," 
  by Geo TV.
 
 There have been at least eight 
  in Pakistan, in which more than 100 people have been killed. In last Thursday's suicide terror 
  , as many as 88 people were killed. 
 
 As for India supporting terror in Pakistan, it was the latter's defence minister who said two days ago that Pakistani terrorist 
  . Until January 30, Saeed, the mastermind of the 26/11 terrorist attack in Mumbai in 2008, was roaming freely in Pakistan, making inflammatory speeches and inciting terrorist acts in India. 
 
 In fact, many political and religious leadership in Pakistan 
  "India's mouthpiece" for his comment on Saeed, and characterised the terrorist as a "patriotic leader of Pakistan".
 
 
 
 
 
