Left-arm spinner   achieved a unique feat of taking six wickets without conceding a run while playing for   against Mercara Youth Cricket Club in the Karnataka State Cricket Association’s T20 tournament in the city on Thursday. He also bagged a hat-trick to guide his team to an easy 107-run victory over the Madikeri team.

 Sarfaraz took six wickets, in which five wickets came in five consecutive deliveries, for no runs. “I look to bowl aggressively to contain runs and I believe this gets me wickets,” he said. “I bowl side-on like Malinga just to confuse the batsman. If a batsman is exploiting one area and getting all of his runs, I try to concentrate on one area which appears to be his weaker side,” added the chinaman bowler.
 
 He was on a hat-trick for the second time and was unfortunate to have an lbw decision go against him. “I also appealed for the lbw but the umpire thought it was missing leg stump,” he later said.
 
 Sarfaraz, 27, plays for Jharkhand in the Syed Mustaq Ali Trophy (BCCI’s domestic T20 tournament). He hails from Muzaffarpur in Bihar and has also turned out for Air India in the past. A regular in T20 tournaments, Sarfaraz could never break the List A jinx. His only List A match, for Jharkhand again, was against   in 2014 where he conceded 48 runs without a wicket. His last T20 match for Jharkhand was in April 2015 and he hopes to make it back to the team this time around.
 
 “I hope selectors see this performance and I get called for any Indian Premier League team,” an elated Sarfaraz said.
 
 “I’m also trying very hard to perform well and go from strength-to-strength. I want to break into the national team. I feel I perform well but am not falling into the selectors’ radar.”
 
 Sarfaraz also played in the Karnataka Premier League for Hubli Tigers, the 2016 champions. His captain in Young Pioneer, Rahmatulullah, called him an economical bowler who can contribute with the bat as well. “He started his career as a fast bowler but shifted to spin a few years ago. Since then, he has been effective in whichever side he turns out for.” (INPUTS FROM ARAVIND S.)
 
