LUCKNOW: Governor  , who made the previous   retreat and amend a number of decisions, has now conveyed to the   that process of selecting the   was wrong and it must get it corrected.

 Naik has already termed the election of SP’s Ram Govind Chaudhary as the leader of opposition by the outgoing Speaker Mata Prasad unconstitutional. According to him, the appointment should have been done by the newly appointment Speaker Hriday Narain Dixit. 
 
 Now, he has written a letter to the Speaker with a detailed research work about the election of the leader of opposition in the 17 Assemblies since 1952, including the present one. According to him, the appointments were unconstitutional and illegal on 14 occasions. “Only thrice — in 1957, 1985 and 1997 — it was correct,” Naik’s letter says, pointing the finger at an anomaly none of his 23 predecessors could notice. 
 
 Along with his letter to the Speaker, Naik has also attached the legal opinion of constitutional expert Subhash Kashyap, who has also backed his view stating on record that an outgoing Speaker cannot elect the leader of opposition, more so when he himself has lost the election. “The outgoing Speaker should have left the election of the new leader of opposition to his successor and the new Speaker,” Kashyap has said while describing the entire process illegal and unconstitutional.
 
 Now, in view of clinching support in favour of Naik, the Speaker has referred the matter to the rules committee which would take a final decision on Naik’s serious objections. If the Assembly corrects the mistake, it would be another victory for Naik who has already established himself as an unorthodox governor.
 
 During the SP regime, he rejected the list of assembly council nominees, questioning their credentials. He also rubbished the oft-repeated theory that the governor was bound by the advice of the cabinet. Similarly, he also returned the file for the appointment of the Lokayukta and recently he changed the speech sent to him by the government and added “Vande Matram” and “ Bharat Mata ki Jai” in his address.
 
