INDORE: The topic of   carried out in the city overshadowed all other agendas of the general body meeting held at   on Monday. Three proposals were passed by the house amid noise and  .

 As the house commenced with   being sung and a minute of silence for the deceased, it soon turned into a chaotic place as question hour began.
 
 While questions were asked by  , the replies were given by the members of mayor in council. “Everybody is speaking on any matter. Those who do not have knowledge of their own department are answering queries about other departments,” said  , leader of opposition of IMC.
 
 Amidst questions ranging from appointment of officials to smart city, the issue of large scale demolition kept coming up. “They had to catch cattle from the roads. The cattle are still there and they are demolishing houses every day and they claim that that the public is happy,” said Anwar Dastak, Congress corporator.
 
 During the discussion on revenue collection Dastak also said that the civic body was breaking houses to satisfy their ego. The opposition alleged that proper notices were not served to owners of houses.
 
 Jitu Patwari, MLA from Rau demanded proper compensation for those who lost their houses for carrying out development activities.
 
 “You are first demolishing their houses and then giving them flats on rent under various schemes. Our Prime Minister had a dream of giving houses to everybody. I don’t think this is what he meant,” Patwari said.
 
 Some corporators also alleged that a particular section of the society was targeted during demolition drives. However, the speaker objected to the claims.
 
 While some BJP leaders answered at random to allegations, they mostly kept quiet on the issue of demolition. The post lunch proceedings went on peacefully until Suraj Kero took a dig at the Congress leaders. “I don’t know if any of them will be seen year after a few years,” Kero said.
 
 The Congress then started raising slogans against Kero and BJP and demanded an apology. Leaders from both sides approached chairman Naruka. He had a tough time controlling them.
 
 The drama continued for around 15 minutes and the house was adjourned after the mayor gave her comments about the ongoing action against cattle owners.
 
 “While the cattle have caused death and serious injury to residents of the city, the situation of animals roaming on roads is bad. Our action is a part of our commitment for the city and also the animals,” Gaud said.
 
