BENGALURU: Yethi Sairam had a busy Sunday with sister Deepti. The duo spent a large part of the day   to buy presents for his fiancée.

 “I have to make the occasion extra special as I am marrying her on February 15, a day after Valentine’s Day. I asked my sister for help and we are buying an assortment of things,” he said, opening a bag containing a heart-shaped pillow and other items.
 
 While florists, gift stores, food outlets and other retailers are gearing up with special offers and products to lure college-going students and young adults,   admit business is relatively lukewarm this year.
 
 Padmesh Kumar, who runs the Archies store on  , says the rush is usually seen in the week leading up to V-Day. “But now, with just two days to go, my shop is empty. It might be because of  . People normally buy cards, some special showpieces meant for couples, teddy bears and chocolates. This year, people are more into personalizing their presents. We expected more sales, but it is half of what we earned last year,” he said, adding that his older customers are more likely to buy simple greeting cards.
 
 Uttam Maithri faces a similar situation. His flower shop on Jeevan Bima Nagar Main Road is adorned with heart-shaped pillows, an additional item he orders anticipating a rush for Valentine’s Day. But this year, sales have fallen. “Normally, business picks up a couple of days before February 14 by Rs 5,000, but this year it has not been so good. Red rose bouquets and special heart-shaped floral arrangements are very popular. Even though prices have fallen a little, we sell at a premium thanks to last-minute rush,” Uttam said.
 
 Ramesh Chandiramani, manager of Archies Gallery on Brigade Road, confirmed that business was not as good as they’d anticipated. “Sales normally double this time, especially on February 13. Mainly, youngsters buy presents but we also see families gifting each other on the occasion. Anything with a heart theme sells well,” he said.
 
 Companies are also making a dent virtually by broadcasting their special deals on social media platforms, offering everything from spa days to speed dating.
 
 
 
 
 1) Sinduja has a   that she has been following for many years. “Every year, I buy a surprise present for my mother to give to my father, and the other way round. Essentially, I am responsible for the gift exchange at home,” she says.
 
 2) While some people shop the traditional way, there are others who prefer more practical presents. Aishwarya, shopping in Indiranagar, says she would rather buy something they can be of use. “I don’t like cheesy presents. I want to gift something the other person needs and will use,” said the fashion design student. 
 
