Pune: Twenty days after a gang of eight robbers waylaid a container truck and robbed 865 cigarette cartons, worth Rs 1.87 crore, near Varsoli toll naka on the Pune-Mumbai highway, the Pune rural police on Tuesday nabbed five of them from Shrirampur in Ahmednagar district.

 Of the 865 cartons, 401cartons, worth Rs 86.9 lakh, have been recovered from the five suspects. “Their three other accomplices have the remaining 464 cartons. We will nab them soon,” said superintendent of police Mohammed Suvez Haque.
 
 “A team of Lonavla rural police led by assistant inspector Sadhana Patil nabbed the gang with the help of CCTV footages, mobile number tracker and tip-offs,” Haque said. Haque announced a reward of Rs 15,000 to Patil and her team.
 
 The kingpin of the gang Shah Rukh Khan (30) is among those arrested. Khan is from Shrirampur and has about 12 cases of dacoities, robberies and body offences registered against him with the Ahmednagar police. Similar cases are registered against the others. 
 
 An owner of a logistics company in Vadgaonsheri had on September 8 lodged a complaint with the Ranjangaon MIDC police against one of his truck drivers stating that he had left a cigarette manufacturing factory with a consignment of 865 cartons of cigarette for Ambernath but had not reached the destination and had gone missing along with the truck.
 
 Later on September 10, the truck driver approached the Nandgaon police in Nashik district and lodged a complaint stating that a gang of eight men travelling in an SUV had abducted him from Varsoli, near Lonavla, and robbed the cigarette cartons.
 
 “The Nandgaon police, then, transferred the case to the Lonavla rural police. After confirming the complaint, we began the probe,” Haque said.
 
 Haque said the driver in his complaint had stated that when he reached near Varsoli around 3.30am, the suspects blocked his way with an SUV. They beat him up severely and tied him up and covered his face. One of them then drove the truck to Aurangabad where they transferred the cartons to two other trucks. They fled after dumping the driver somewhere in Nandgaon.
 
 How the gang was traced
 
 Assistant inspector Sadhana Patil said her team first studied the Ranjangaon-Varsoli-Aurangabad route. They checked CCTV footages along the road. “We found that one of the trucks had stopped at a petrol pump for refuelling. We noticed that two motorcycles and one SUV were constantly tailing the truck. “The two riders were captured on camera at the petrol pump. We also got to know the SUV’s registration number from the toll post in Supe,” Patil added.
 
 The SUV was hired by some persons from Shrirampur. “We managed to get the cellphone numbers of the suspects and cross checked with mobile towers. After confirming their involvement, five of the eight suspects were picked up from Shrirampur,” Patil said. 
 
 The suspects had distributed the loot among themselves. “We have seized 401 cartons while the remaining have been kept in a godown by their aides,” Patil said.
 
 
