JAISALMER: Taking action against the tent resorts in Sam sand dunes, which were opened without permission, the district administration has demolished more than 80 such resorts and encroachments on government land and warned the owners. A team has been formed with CID to investigate activities and tourist stay in these resorts. 

 It is to be mentioned that TOI had published a story (Dt. February 27) on anti-national activities are being planned in these illegal resorts and district administration has come into action as an impact of the report.
 
 District collector   said 70-80 encroachments were removed from Sam and Kanoi in last two days. Around 30 encroachments were removed Thursday. Similarly, 45-50 encroachments were also removed. Cabins and cottages on 5 kms area from Sam to Kanoi were causing loss to the government and hence they had to be razed. Similarly, illegal houses were demolished at Songai Nadi in Kanoi. 
 
 Sharma said government lands were encroached at Sam sand dunes and Lakhmano ki   and around 50 bighas of land was freed in a campaign against 15 encroachers under Tehsildar Virendra Singh. Strict action will be taken if any encroachment comes up on government lands, said the collector. 
 
 Sharma said in next tourist season, the administration is planning to form a team in which permission will be given for opening tent resorts in Sam for which resort owners will have to obtain NOC (no objection certificate) and entire process is being analysed.
 
 SP Gaurav Yadav said police have increased vigil on tent resorts in Sam area along with guideline is being made to control jeep safari which are driven rashly on sand dunes as they destroy the beauty of Sam. 
 
 Yadav said district administration is planning to keep details of tenet resorts to prevenht any sort of illegal activities.
 
 Additional SP (CID, BI)   said many resorts have mushroomed on Sam as there is no guideline for ten resorts and CID, district administration have no information about tourists staying there.
 
 He further said tent resorts do not fill form of foreign tourists and they do not inform CID and a team is being formed in this regard to have a check on tent resorts.
 
 
