AURANGABAD: The arrest of a member of the central team for rating cities on   has raised concerns over the authenticity of the reports prepared by the same panel so far. 

 Before visiting Aurangabad, the three-member team comprising Shailesh Bajaniya, Vijay Joshi and Govind Ghimre has visited Pimpri-Chinchwad, Vasai-Virar, Nanded and Amravati municipal corporations. They were supposed to visit two more cities in the state and submit individual reports of the city’s clean-up efforts. 
 
 Aurangabad municipal commissioner   told TOI that the team members initially built pressure on the municipal authorities to create grounds for the bribe. “The members took various objections over the steps initiated by the civic body in solid waste management and for making the city fee from open defecation spots. Later, the members demanded Rs 5 lakh to make favourable adjustments in their report. Now, we believe that their report is nullified and the government may send another team for inspection,” he said.
 
 Although Bakoria refused to comment on the credibility of the reports prepared by the same team members in the recent past, sources said there is possibility that the Union government would set up new team for inspection for Amravati, Nanded, Pimpri-Chinchwad. 
 
 Principal secretary of state urban development department Manisha Mhaiskar said, “The state government has received a detailed report from Aurangabad municipal commissioner describing the entire chain of events. We will forward it to the union ministry of urban development. They will take a final call on the matter.” 
 
 A senior bureaucrat said the QCI team has been appointed by the Union government and it would decide whether the other reports have been prepared in a free and fair manner. “But considering the Aurangabad incident, the possibility of foul play in the previous reports cannot be ruled out,” he said. 
 
 Amravati municipal commissioner Hemant Pawar said the team members did not raise any demand during their visit to Amravati Municipal Corporation. 
 
 Politicians were quick to target Modi government and the implementation of its flagship schemes. Former CM and Nanded MP Ashok Chavan said, “Contrary to the slogan of PM Narendra Modi ‘na khaunga… na khane dunga’, officers associated in his flagship programme have demanded bribe. These officers were responsible for deciding national-level ranking of the cities. The government should set aside its Swachh Bharat initiative and carry out in-house cleaning.” 
 
 MIM MLA ( )   said, “It is not the three-member team that has been exposed on Saturday. All the tall claims of the central government on ‘making the country free corruption’ have fallen flat.”
 
