CHENNAI: Chances of devotees praying at a 125-year-old church, sealed for being located on government poromboke land, brightened with the   making it clear that it was imperative that the church be de-sealed by authorities.

 Fr Samuel Savio, parish priest of the St Antony’s Church at   in  , said it was in existence at the spot for about 125 years, though an earlier writ petition said it was built only in the year 2015. Following a court order and contempt proceedings, authorities locked and sealed the church in January this year.
 
 The priest, however, filed the present petition stating that closure of the church had hurt the religious sentiments of worshippers and that the 400-odd families be allowed to offer prayers on church premises during the current holy week.
 
 The first bench of Chief Justice Indira Banerjee and Justice M Sundar, posting the matter to Tuesday for further hearing, said, “It is imperative that the church should be de-sealed to enable the devotees to offer prayers at the church during the holy week.”
 
 The bench also directed the counsel for housing and urban development department, commissioner of corporation of   and member-secretary CMDA to obtain instructions in this regard, and produce copies of earlier orders of the court in a writ petition and the contempt petition.
 
 According to the petitioner, the church had been functioning at the location for 125 years on land classified as sarkar poromboke in government records. The church was originally built with mud walls, roof with palmyrah rafters, bamboo reapers and old country tiles, he said, adding, “In 1964, the church was in dilapidated condition and hence the parish priest of St Thomas Mount renovated it by strengthening it with cemented brick walls and asbestos roof sheet. On February 24, 1977, electricity service connection was obtained for the church. Every year, on June 13, the church celebrates St Antony’s feast and car procession around the village,” it said.
 
 A local resident filed a writ petition against district collector and others alleging that land grabbers were trying to make illegal constructions on the piece of land which was the only passage available to residents to reach the street. Though he was aware of the fact that the church existed there for decades, he did not include it as a party to the case. Based on these suppressed averments, the high court passed an order against the church, the petition said.
 
 However, after personal hearing in an appeal filed by the church, an order was passed by the housing and urban development department stating that the church was not constructed on the land, and that there was not encroachment of the land. 
 
