MANIPAL: With the Udupi district reeling under acute water shortage, the   (MU) has decided to advance its semester exams to declare early holidays, and thus avoid a water crisis on its campus. However, there will be no change in its medical programmes as they are governed by the  .

 The varsity has decided to declare early holidays, latest by the first week of May, for the Manipal Institute of Technology, Manipal, and its other courses. The MU has more than 22,000 students and hundreds of teaching and non-teaching staff. It also runs a 200-bedded hospital.
 
 Confirming this to TOI, Narayan Sabhahith, registrar of Manipal University, said: “Taking cue from last year's water crisis at our Mangaluru campus where hostel inmates had to be sent home on a short notice, the Manipal campus has decided in November 2016 itself to close our even-semester by the first week of May . This will also help us run the hospital smoothly .“
 
 In May 2016, the   (KMC) campus in Mangaluru unexpectedly closed down its hostels, giving a notice period of just two days for the inmates to vacate.
 
 Sabhahith added that the next semester which usually begins in August, will start early -in the first or second week of July .
 
 On an average, MU re quires 10 million litres of water every day, out of which 3 million litres are utilised in MIT, Manipal alone. “Early closure of MIT will help save 2 million litres of water, which can be diverted to the hospital which can't be shut down,“ Sabhahith said.
 
 Meanwhile, district incharge minister Pramod Madhwaraj, who recently visited Baje Dam from where water is supplied to Udupi and Manipal, had said that the dam can supply water only till the end of March.In fact, water rationing has already begun in Udupi.The district, which usually receives good rainfall during monsoon, had witnessed scanty showers this year.
 
 MU registrar Sabhahith is not sure whether Udupi CMC will provide adequate water supply to the varsity during the peak summer months, especially May . The varsity has already launched a `save water' campaign among its students by putting up posters and issuing water management circulars.
 
 Under its `Green Manipal' initiative, the Manipal University has installed a waste water management system that recycles around 20 to 30 per cent of used water.
 
