PUNE: Police investigation has revealed Siraj Allauddin Amir Qureshi, the murder suspect who staged a daring escape from  , had help from his wife.

 Qureshi’s wife smuggled in a hacksaw in a tiffin box, facilitating the escape of her husband and Sunny Vijay Andy — an accomplice — in the early hours of Sunday. 
 
 While Qureshi is still at large, the 25-year-old Andy was nabbed late on Monday night. Kalpana Barawkar, deputy commissioner of police (zone-IV) said, “Qureshi has yet to be arrested. Our probe is on." 
 
 On Saturday, after dinner, Qureshi complained of loose motions. He requested the guard to let him sit in the passage leading to the toilet near the lock-up, which is against the standard operating procedure. 
 
 What’s more, Bajirao Thombare, the policeman tasked with guarding the cell, fell asleep. When he woke up around 3.30am, Qureshi and Andy had disappeared. Thombare discovered that the passage window was broken, and the iron grill too had been cut.
 
 “Qureshi used the   to cut through grill of the window and escape with his associate,” joint commissioner of police Sunil   told TOI. 
 
 The guards have been suspended being “utterly negligent”, according to Ramanand. “The guards should not have allowed the suspects to sit outside the lock-up. Moreover, there was no proper supervision,” Ramanand said, “We will take stringent action against them for dereliction of duty,” he said.
 
 Ramanand said there are standard operating procedures to deal with suspects in police custody. “We will re-issue these guidelines to all the police stations,” Ramanand said.
 
 The 40-year-old Qureshi is the leader of a criminal gang in Khadki. He was arrested on April 1 in connection with the brutal murder of 21-year-old student Yogiraj Khandale, who was hacked to death on March 31. Along with Qureshi, police had arrested six others, besides detaining six minors, for their alleged involvement in the murder. A court remanded all the arrested to police custody till April 10.
 
