Veteran playback singer  's Facebook post from the US who is in a grand world tour celebrating his 50 years in the film industry, revealing that   has sent the team a legal notice asking them to stop performing his songs as they are breaking copyright laws by performing them without his permission. Soon enough, opinions started pouring in on social media that took sides with the singer or the music director. This controversy has once again put the spotlight on the copyright and royalty conundrum that has been plaguing the industry for the last few years. Malayali musicians talk about the royalty scenario in Kerala...

 
 
 
 Every year I get a small amount from the (The  )   as royalty. Many of my colleagues have discussed the same but we have no clue on what to do or how to go about it. All we know is we are getting a paltry sum from the board. We have now come to terms with it. Most of the time, I console myself thinking that at least my colleagues will be receiving a justifiable amount. Music composers have been the unsung heroes since the era of Devarajan master and Dakhsinamoorthy sir. We take weeks and months to compose a song. However, a singer renders it in an hour, and if the track goes on to become a hit, it is then tagged as his or her song. They then perform it in thousands of stages and make a lot of money. We are paid very less for our efforts. For instance, Alliyambal Kadavil, composed by K V Job, has been sung in innumerable stages since 1965. Do you think he is ever acknowledged for it?
 
 
 
 All registered members of the IPRS are given the royalty based on our tariff. We get in touch with the organisers of various stage programmes. Unfortunately, people in Kerala are less aware of the IPRS rules. They should know that licence has to be taken while organising public performances. Many of them never do it and we have to keep sending them letters of intimation. Almost always, they ignore it and then we have to initiate legal action and only after that do they get a licence. I do not know why Malayalis do not respect one’s creativity. Why is stealing creativity not considered a crime here?
 
 
 
 
 A singer too has a right over the song she/he renders. It is upsetting that they are totally being ignored. It's the duty of the programme organisers to take the licence from IPRS. So, targeting singers is not a healthy trend. The rights and royalty issues should be dealt between the associations such as IPRS and ISRA. 
 
