BENGALURU: For those passengers who have to make a last-minute dash to catch a flight, enduring a long wait at the security checkpoint could be a frustrating experience. However, the Automatic Tray Retrieval System (ATRS) that has been installed at the   (KIA) could save time for passengers. Under the current system, passengers have to stand in long queues awaiting their turn as the security personnel at these points hands them a tray on which valuables are placed, and subsequently pushed towards the scanner. However, this entire process is set to get automated with  .

 “Using the ATRS, four trays can be pushed into the scanner at a time,“ said a spokesperson from Bangalore International Airport Ltd ( ). ATRS will restrict the role of security personnel at these points to just monitoring the baggage on screens. Passengers can deposit their luggage on the tray, which will automatically arrive at the other end, without security staff being involved.
 
 Besides saving time for passengers, the automated system will also free personnel of the   (CISF) freed from airports duties. A minimum of three officers are stationed at these security points for handing over trays, and automation could lead to their being deployed for other duties. Segregation of suspicious baggage also becomes easier with ATRS ­ all that the CISF personnel now need to do is push a button to separate luggage they suspect is dangerous. BIAL has also equipped the airport with additional screens at security points to enable passengers to get a view of the scanning process. “Earlier, the scanned baggage was displayed on a monitor in front of the CISF personnel, and passengers couldn't see the process. The additional screens will show passengers what the CISF officer is viewing,“ the spokesperson added.
 
 Two automated systems were introduced around three months ago at one of the security points at KIA. “Pas sengers accustomed to the old system are taking time to adjust to ATRS.Once they get familiar with it, the project will be extended to other security points as well,“ said BIAL sources.
 
 Waiting at airport this holiday season to be fun
 
 Waiting for a flight at KIA won't be a dreary affair this holiday season. Passengers can entertain themselves at the terminal by playing virtual reality games, and snooker football while they wait for the airlines to make theboarding announcement.
 
 BIAL on Thursday unveiled   ­ where passengers can enjoy a series of digital and other new-age sports -which will be in place at the waiting lounge of KIA till May 15. The initiative has been launched keeping in mind the heavy passenger traffic this month.
 
 Some of the virtual reality attractions on offer at Playport include giving passengers an experience of surfing and simulation of flight travel.Puzzles, knots and magic shows add to the excitement at the terminal.Although largely meant for children, the adults too could be seen soaking in the fun at KIA on Thursday. A British citizen waiting to board a Kochi-bound flight had an enjoyable experience with the virtual reality jump suit. “This is really cool for an airport,“ she said.
 
 “We wanted to offer visitors a unique experience . We want their vacation to begin right here, at KIA,“ said Hari Marar, president (operations), BIAL, in an official statement.
 
