In what could emerge as a major boost to  ,   transactions at point-of-sales terminals are growing rapidly while there has been a   drop in card swipes at ATMs, latest data from the   has revealed.
 
  Debit card swipes at ATMs have slipped 18 per cent to 655 million transactions in May this year, compared with 800 million transactions in October, a month before demonetisation, according to figures released by the central bank.
  
  Though October was the peak festive season with higher transactions, transactions hovered around 750 million on an average in the months preceding demonetisation. But during the first half of this year, the volume has dropped to 680 million on an aver age.
  
  Simultaneously, point-ofsales terminals' debit card usage has jumped 90 per cent to 267.5 million transactions in May this year from around 140.4 million in October, a month before high-value notes were scrapped by the government. But card transactions tapered a bit from its peak of around 320 million transactions in December and January when cash started trickling back into the system.
  
  “We have seen that card spends on   PoS terminals have risen 3.4 times from pre-demonetisation days, though they had tapered a bit from an almost 5-times jump in December, but had steadied around that range since then,“ said Manju Agrawal, deputy managing director, corporate strategy and new business at SBI.
  
  Agrawal said that the bank has deployed around 2.5 lakh terminals in the months following demonetisation.
  
  Industry observers said that a defined push from banks, the government, and increased awareness about   have prompted a lot of people to start using their debit cards while shopping.
  
  Also a sustained effort by banks to enroll merchants to join the digital payments platform has increased the number of card terminals in the country to 27 lakh, compared with around 15 lakh before demonetisation.
  
  While a larger number of terminals have helped in more card transactions, ATMs have remained somewhat constant at around 2.3 lakh. 
