ARWAL, KANPUR: Counting   zoom past seems to have become a fad among kids living in villages along the Agra-Lucknow Expressway. From playing games on mobile phones to keeping a tab on high-end SUVs in the Expressway, the kids in the non-descript hamlet, Arwal, comprising about 250 farmers, seem to have started admiring heroes of   chartbusters.

 Hindi dubbing of English thrillers involving racing cars has become a booming business in this village, which is about 85km away from Lucknow, and comes first on way to Kannauj, the constituency of Dimple Yadav.
 
 The village is not a prosperous one. Only 35 out of the 250 farmers have got compensation for their land. About 40% of houses are made of thatch, bamboo or mud, and 70% of them have one or two rooms. Only 60% villagers have mobile phones and one out of four has a radio or TV.
 
 Shivam and his cousin Monu stand along the expressway and guess the speed of the cars. The one with maximum number of correct guesses is the winner. They are particularly fond of Fortuners racing past the expressway. “Car dekhne mein bada maza aata hai (it’s fun to watch the cars),” says 15-year-old Shivam. “Kick milti hai... (it gives me kick),” says Monu, who studies in Class X with Shivam. They are accompanied by their elder brothers Shobhit and Abhishek, too.
 
 Shobhit says, “Car ki awaz vroom vroom vroom sunne me maza aata hai (The vroom sound of a car has fun element).” Village elders say the expressway gives the kids a chance to relate with   thriller Dhoom. “Pata nahi kya acha lagta hai, par yeh bahut vikral hai… bidesh jaisa (I can’t explain what exactly I like, but its vastness appeals… it is like foreign,” says Ashish Kumar, a village elder.
 
 Parents are worried. “Dar lagat hai ki kahin kuch ho na jaye (I’m scared for the safety of the boys),” says Bimla Devi. “Jab expressway pura ho jayega, toh yeh sab khatam ho jayega (All this will stop when the expressway will be completed),” Ram Kripal hopes. Social scientists say curiosity drives the trend. “A boy’s love for car is common and curiosity is universal,” says Harjeet Singh, formerly with the psychiatry department of the King George’s  , who has done many research studies on adolescent behaviour.
 
