CHANDIGARH:   said on Monday that as a part of a series of measures to provide efficient, transparent and more responsive administration to the people, the state government has decided to reorganise the administrative units. The government has already formed   ( ), he added.

 The chief minister, who was addressing a press conference here, said the number of divisions had been increased to six from four by adding new divisions of Karnal and Faridabad. The Karnal division would include the districts of Karnal, Panipat and Kaithal. Similarly, the Faridabad division will include the districts of Nuh, Palwal and Faridabad.
 
 The Ambala division will have districts of Ambala, Yamunanagar, Panchkula and Kurukshetra. Gurgaon division would have the districts of Gurugram, Mahendragarh and Rewari. The Hisar division will have the districts of Hisar, Fatehabad, Sirsa and Jind. The Rohtak division would include districts of Rohtak, Jhajjar, Sonipat, Dadri and Bhiwani.
 
 Khattar said the number of police ranges had been increased from four to five by constituting Ambala police range covering the districts of Ambala, Yamunanagar and Kurukshetra. The existing Karnal range would include Karnal, Panipat and Kaithal districts. Hisar range would have the districts of Hisar, Fatehabad, Sirsa and Hansi police districts.
 
 Similarly, Rohtak range would have the districts of Rohtak, Jhajjar, Sonipat and Charkhi Dadri. The Haryana south range would cover the districts of Rewari, Palwal, Mahendragarh and Mewat. The CM said the existing police commissionerate of Faridabad, Gurgaon and Panchkula would remain as such.
 
 He said the decision to constitute the HGRA had been taken to simplify very old rules and procedures. The authority would be headed by political analyst Pramod Kumar, director,   and communication (IDC), Chandigarh.
 
 HGRA would not submit its report in lump sum, but every month and the government would promptly act on its report.
 
 CM Khattar avoided queries related to the recruitment of fishermen-cum-watchmen in the fisheries department. "The director of the department is empowered make such recruitments," he said.
 
