New Delhi: Around 50 AAP workers, mostly belonging to the Poorvanchali group, on Sunday joined JD(U), which is preparing to contest all 272 seats in the coming municipal elections. 

 "We are consolidating our stronghold among Poorvanchali voters who have been ignored by both AAP and BJP. AAP workers turning to us is an evidence of JD(U)'s growing influence in the capital," said JD(U) Delhi in-charge  . 
 
 Delhi has around   who have come from   and eastern UP. 
 
 Vinod Jha, who participated in the 2011 anti-corruption movement and is the secretary of AAP Poorvanchal Shakti-a group of migrants from Bihar and UP, said, "Interests of migrants from Bihar and UP being sidelined in AAP motivated me to join JD(U)." 
 
 Jha put in his papers soon after AAP released the first list of candidates on Friday. "The migrants were ignored in ticket distribution," he told TOI. Poorvanchalis have got 15 tickets in the first list and AAP claims it has a strong support base among these people. In the 2015 assembly elections when JD(U) supported it, AAP got a major share of this vote pie. 
 
 Praveen Kumar, who also joined JD(U), claimed the discontent was deep among Poorvanchalis. "AAP has been winning elections because of our votes but when it comes to ticket distribution, it completely ignores us," he said.
 
 The new members credited Bihar chief minister   for the state's recent progress. "We want to replicate the success story of Bihar in Delhi," said Vijay Jha. 
 
 In the 2015 Bihar elections, AAP supported the ruling party but the bonhomie between CM   and Kumar ended after JD(U) reorganised its party and decided to contest all seats in the Delhi corporation polls for the first time. 
 
 The Poorvanchalis make one of the largest group of voters in the capital. 
 
 "Intellectuals used to say in the past that Bihar needed governance. I feel the same for the areas where Poorvanchalis live in the capital. No model of governance is better in India than Nitish's model. He has delivered and won the confidence of people while BJP and AAP have made false promises and cheated people," said Jha.
 
