HUBBALLI: Now, patients with diabetes need no longer worry about timely treatment. If everything goes according to plan, the   ( ), a lifeline of North Karantaka, will soon have an exclusive   in collaboration with  .

 The hospital is a preferred choice for the labour class, lower and middle classes for medical treatment at affordable prices, and even for free. But for many years, diabetic patients were relying on private hospitals and doctors in the absence of a comprehensive system for diabetes at KIMS.
 
 Realising this fact, KIMS authorities have decided to extend a helping hand to poor diabetic patients by devising a plan to have an exclusive diabetic care centre and diabetes rehabilitation centre, which will provide comprehensive system for treatment.
 
 Dr Dattatraya Bant, director, KIMS, said: “We are preparing a proposal to set up a diabetic care centre at KIMS premises with a rehabilitation centre, which will be ready in the next couple of days.”
 
 There is adequate space for infrastructure for the centre, which is spread over nearly 6,000 sqft in the emergency department. “Currently, more than 25% of people who visit KIMS have diabetes and there are also fresh diabetes cases diagnosed every day,” he added.
 
 He said that the exclusive diabetic care centre would be the second in the country in any government hospital.
 
 A source said a team from Jindal approached KIMS in November and discussed the proposal with KIMS director Dr Bant, over availability of space and also benefits of the centre. KIMS authorities reportedly identified land for the centre near the bus stop at the hospital premises earlier, but now plan to use land in front of the proposed multi-specialty hospital.
 
 Once the centre comes up, patients can get checkups and blood tests done under a single roof, a source added.
 
 Dr Pandurang Patil, former mayor, said: “It’s a good initiative by KIMS authorities to have exclusive diabetic care along with a rehabilitation centre at its premises, which is now essential in government hospitals. Today, diabetes is also common among the young, and even among children. Such an exclusive diabetic care centre will help many people, mainly farmers and others from rural areas of North Karnataka.”
 
 
