New Delhi: The   (NDMC) had on Wednesday directed 230 shop owners of   to submit structural   certificates by March 6, following the recent Connaught Place roof collapses. However, the Khan Market traders association has decided to meet the   chairman and request for structural safety tests of all buildings to be conducted by the council itself.

 Sanjiv Mehra, Khan Market Traders Association president, said that the traders had invited a structural engineer to understand whether getting a certificate from a private firm will help in assessing the strength of the building. After being told that submitting the undertaking will not ensure that the building is safe, traders have decided to meet NDMC chairman on Monday and apprise him on the situation.
 
 “We were told by the engineer that no private firm will assess the   in depth and we don’t want to take any risk. The building is quite old and we want NDMC, which is the governing body. to do the needful. We will request the chairman to carry out a survey and test to assess the structure,” said Mehra.
 
 There are 230 units in Khan Market, which include 156 shops (small and big) on ground level and 74 units – including 35 restaurants above ground level. In 2000, 74 residential units were converted into commercial space after a long legal battle.
 
 “There are risks involved for the owners on ground floor. We will never know the load that our shops are taking because of the shops on the first floor and we don’t want to submit an undertaking only for the sake of it,” Mehra said.
 
 Mehra pointed out that the sewage system is choked and sewage water has been seeping through the foundation of the building. “We have made several attempts to inform NDMC about the sewage issue, but it never initiated any action. Moreover, the high court had asked the council to ensure that the restaurants follow guidelines and there is no illegal construction. But NDMC has failed to ensure these,” said Mehra.
 
 However, senior NDMC officials claimed that it is not possible for the department to carry out inspection for each unit.
 
 “For Connaught Place, we have asked the traders to submit structural safety certificates, while we are conducting visual inspection and hired a consultant to check the stability of the structures. We have asked the traders in Khan Market for an undertaking, but we will carry out a separate visual inspection on our own. But they need to get their structure assessed by engineers,” said a senior NDMC official.
 
