BENGALURU: Premier technology hub Bengaluru with a population about 1 crore has the lowest number of police women on the streets among big metros in the country, and at least two top cities have women cops 8-10 times that of the IT city, a home ministry report has said.

 The Bureau of Police Research and Development said Bengaluru has 606 policewomen in its jurisdiction, way below Delhi-NCR's 6,615 and Mumbai's 4,937 women cops. Pune, which like Bengaluru has a huge chunk of young working population, has 1,595 women cops. Hyderabad, another IT destination, has just 320 women cops.
 
 The statistics are part of the police research team's 2016 report on `Data on Police Organisations in India'.
 
 Of the 606 women police personnel in Bengaluru, 502 are constables. Importance has not been given to wom en policing in the recent years and that is the reason behind skewed   in the police force. Only verbal assurances have been made with regard to women's safety in Bengaluru, and the top brass has been oblivious to the falling number of women personnel,“ a former police commissioner said. Karnataka has also failed the national average when it comes to representation to women in the police force. While the national average of percentage of policewomen to the total strength force is 7.1, Karnataka clocked a tad lower at 6.14%.The state has 4,354 women in the   comprising 70,934 personnel.
 
 The 2016 report stresses the need to enlist more women police personnel. “Avail ability of adequate women in police is a possibility to reduce the vulnerability of women becoming victims of crime. If there is an overall shortage of women police personnel, then how can the country meet new challenges in form of increased crimes against women,“ the report said.
 
 The role of women personnel is vital in handling agitations. “In a majority of the agitations, the policemen resort to highhanded tactics to disperse protesters, which includes women. This not only escalates violence at the spot, but sparks off an outrage on social media. The presence of women police officers eases the situation,“ an officer explained.
 
 In 2015, Karnataka recorded 3,971 agitations: 1,263 were communal, 285 were student protests, 361were politically triggered and the rest related to labour and other issues. In more bad news, Karnataka has very few women police stations. While Karnataka has 20 women police stations,   has 200.   G Paramesh wara, who landed in a controversy following his recent comments on the western ways of women, said efforts were being made to increase the number of women in the police force. “We have issued instructions to increase the number of women in the force from the current 5% to 20%,“ the minister said. The government is contemplating increasing reservation for women during recruitments from 20% to 33%. India is also witnessing a rise in the induction of women, recording an increase of 10.86% between 2011 and 2015.
 
 The police research department has recommended deployment of more women in frontline duties. “It is essential that women are visible at the cutting-edge level of public interface. There is a tendency to engage women police only in situations like security checks and other specialized duties relating to women. Unless they are assigned frontline duties, there would not be an impact on the community as a whole,“ the report added.
 
