BENGALURU:   said on Tuesday that the   from the prisons department to   was not a punishment but a move to vest her with more responsibility.

 “Roopa has been transferred to a much more responsible post now. In  , each post has its own importance and in the present post, Roopa has the responsibility of bringing down the number of road accidents in the state,“ the director general and inspector general of police said.
 
 Asked about reports that Roopa and DGP H N Sathyanarayana Rao were forced to sign on transfer and leave letters, Dutta replied: “I don't have any such information.“
 
 Roopa and Rao were shunted out after the former alleged large-scale irregularities in Central Prison,  . Rao had rejected the allegations.
 
 Roopa arrived at the DG IGP office in Nrupatunga Road late in the afternoon and took charge as the commissioner of traffic and road safety. Dismissing transfers as common in any government job, she said, “There is nothing like better post or lower post. All posts are equal for government employees.This is a new responsibility and I am committed to it.There is no place for emo tions when it comes to work.“
 
 Roopa also thanked Puducherry governor and former IPS officer Kiran Bedi for her support. Bedi was criticial of the way the state government handled the revelations made by Roopa.
 
 Also on Tuesday, senior IPS officer and former AntiCorruption Bureau chief N S Megharikh took charge as additional director general of police (Prisons) in the prisons department headquarters on Seshadri Road. Former DGIGP (Prisons) Rao completed the formalities of handing over charge in a few minutes and walked away without speaking to media.
 
 Megharikh told TOI that he would visit the Central Prison, Parappana Agrahara at the earliest. “I have taken charge just now. First let me visit the prison, take stock of the situation, interact with my staff and then I will get an idea. I also have to go through the prison manual,“ he said.
 
 Asked if he would allow special treatment of inmates like stamp scam kingpin Abdul Karim Telgi and AIADMK general secretary V K Sasikala, Megharikh said, “I have to study the prison manual first to see what all exemptions they are eligible to.Many people are saying Sasikala is wearing colour dress instead of white sari. According to prison manual, any convict...imprisoned for less than seven years can wear colour dress by taking writ ten per mission from the prison superintendent.“
 
 Megharikh said his experience as a member of a committee formed to look into problems in prisons would help in his current designation. In 2013, the government had formed a special committee after serial murder convict Jaishankar had escaped from the prison. Megharikh was one of the committee members and had visited all eight central prisons then. “I believe in simple but clear working style. First, we have to do a lot of homework and then see what should be done,“ he said.
 
