NEW DELHI: The Centre will announce its new National Wildlife Action Plan (2017-31) on October 2 to strengthen conservation measures. Use of technology, including e-surveillance through drones, and modalities to involve people living around national parks and sanctuaries in conservation efforts will be key to this 14-year roadmap.

 The action plan will be launched by environment minister   on the inaugural day of the   (GWP) conference here. The GWP, initiated in 2015, is a World-Bank led partnership of 19 countries to promote the conservation and sustainable development by combating trafficking in wildlife.
 
 The four-day conference will give India an opportunity to get acquainted with best practices on the management of wildlife habitats and minimising human-wildlife conflict situations.
 
 The action plan spells out how India will go about handling these issues in a time-bound manner in the next 14 years.
 
 It covers all the issues concerning conservation, ranging from rehabilitation of threatened species to integrating climate change in wildlife planning.
 
 The plan has a road map to deal with poaching and illegal trade of animals and animal parts, and management of tourism in wildlife areas. The 2017-31 national action plan will be the third such plan. The first was implemented from 1983 to 2001, the second from 2002-16. Harsh Vardhan said programmes and plans related to wildlife were focused on national parks and sanctuaries till now, “However, the strategy and programmes will now be based on the landscape of the region.”
 
 Setting up special courts for effective implementation of the Wildlife Protection Act to ensure the speedy trial of wildlife crimes, identification and validation of   Traditional Knowledge (ITK) available in various parts of the country for dealing with human-wildlife conflicts, and use of mobile technology to develop ‘Digital Field Guides’ for easy identification of various wildlife goods and their derivatives are other key features of the plan.
 
 The plan cites as a model the   forest department’s initiative to appoint local youth as ‘Vanya Praani Mitra’ (friends of wild animals) in in high conflict zones.
 
