CHENNAI:   chief minister   must be a contented man today . The two interim orders passed by Justice   of the Madras high court on Wednesday mean three things: One, the 18 disqualified rebel MLAs of the party will continue to be non-MLAs, as the court has not stayed the speaker's order disqualifying them.

 Two, there is no obligation on the part of the government to move a confidence motion on the floor of the assembly and prove its majority , as the high court has barred any floor test till October 4. Three, though the government has notified as vacant the constituencies represented by these 18 MLAs, EPS is not under any immediate obligation to hold by-elections. The high court has made it clear that no by-poll should be held without its nod. Given the clear lack of popularity among people, the last thing the EPS government wants is a poll or bypoll or civic poll.
 
 In short, the status quo as on date shall continue till October 4, except that during the period the disqualified legislators can neither call themselves MLAs nor can they enter their officesconstituencies in that capacity .
 
 In lay terms, the EPS government can run its business as usual, at least till October 4, and this lifeline has been gained from the petitions filed by   camp MLAs and DMK working president  .
 
 The biggest losers are the disqualified legislators who have failed to secure a stay order against the speaker's order, at the admission stage of their writ petitions.
 
 That no bypoll can be held in their constituencies and that no floor test will happen in their absence is only a consolation, but it means little because they have lost their MLA posts.
 
 Post the interim orders, DMK lawyers went around proclaiming victory , but only reluctantly.Though the EPS regime has been restrained from moving a confidence motion, it is not a substantial gain because why would a government seek confidence of the House unless pushed to the wall. The ruling dispensation, however, has every reason to smile, as at least till October 4, all debates of disqualification and confidence motion would be on hold, as the matter is sub judice.While this is a relief for the EPS government, the DMK would have rejoiced had the court stayed the disqualification and then mandated the government to prove its majority within a time frame.
 
 If the TTV faction MLAs had not consented for this interim order of justice Duraiswamy , they could attempt a writ appeal.
 
 Though it's trite law that interim orders are not appealable, there are umpteen precedents of benches entertaining matters pending before single judges. If their disqualification orders are not stayed, the 18 MLAs cannot actually claim to be a threat to the EPS government.
 
