MANGALURU: A circular from the undersecretary to the government, education department (universities – 2) to registrars of all 17 state universities to offer UG/PG courses in geography, psychology, statistics, mathematics, anthropology and criminology as part of BSc/MSc programmes came in for close scrutiny at the third general meeting of the academic council of Mangalore University on Friday. The circular effectively delinks these courses from BA/MA programmes.

 The circular quoting the additional chief secretary, education department (higher education) dated February 19, 2016 to the registrars refers to the issue of considering candidates who have obtained their postgraduate degrees in geography in MA and MSc streams on par for appointment to the post of assistant professors in government first grade colleges. The issue had figured at the general meeting of the   on December 28, 2015.
 
 K L Subrahmanya, the under-secretary in the circular, while highlighting the decision of the above meeting has drawn attention of the registrars to offer the above courses only as part of BSc/MSc programmes henceforth. 
 
 “I am directed to request you (the registrars) to take necessary action as per the above decision,” the circular adds. Incidentally, the year-old circular came for ratification at the academic council meeting, which took majority of the members by surprise.
 
  and   from department of PG studies in English, Mangalore University, said this move was fraught with inherent danger as it sought to compartmentalize subjects such as psychology and geography in to exclusive realm of science. “There is fundamental misconception about psychiatry, psycho-analysis and psychology. While psychiatry is pure science, the other two have widespread use if world of arts, literature, and even business,” Shashidhar said.
 
 Many exclusive arts and social work degree colleges that offer psychology as one of the popular combination subject at UG level will be forced to shut down if psychology was made an exclusive BSc subject. “Psychology, criminology and literature is among the popular scoring combinations that arts students opt for at the UG level,” Kishori said adding the directive also goes against the government’s move to offer choice based courses for students at PG level.
 
 They received support from members Amrith Shenoy, and Abhishek Ullal who expressed concern over future of arts colleges that offer these subjects at the UG level. Admissions to arts courses even otherwise is on the wane, Amrith said. Taking this and other opinions by members, VC K Byrappa urged them to give the same in writing and assured to take up the matter at the government level and with the Karnataka State   Council.
 
 
