Ten days after a section of a building collapsed in Connaught Place’s C Block, the roof of another building collapsed in L Block on Saturday night. The roof was of the shop next to the restaurant Unplugged Courtyard, and was also used by the restro for its terrace seating. The terrace was not in use at the time of the incident, since   was among the   restaurants whose terrace areas were sealed by the   after the first collapse. Since the shop has also been shut for a couple of years now, nobody was hurt in the incident, but the noise caused panic among the staff and guests in the restaurant. The place was immediately evacuated and the electricity supply was also cut off as a precaution.

 A source, who works in CP and was in the restaurant at the time of the collapse, tells us, "The rooftop of the room next door was being used by the restaurant for terrace seating. If the NDMC had not sealed the rooftop recently, a major tragedy could have happened. The roof came down in three parts. When the entire thing fell down, it sounded like a bomb blast! It created panic among the guests."
 
 Dinesh Arora, the owner of the restaurant, who was present at the time of the incident, tells us, "I heard a crashing sound at around 8.15pm and immediately asked the guests and the staff to evacuate the restaurant. I rushed to my restaurant’s terrace and saw that the common terrace area that we share with the shop next door was caving in. These buildings are very old and interconnected, but thankfully, there was no damage to the restaurant and nobody was injured. The next-door property also belonged to my landlord and there used to be a sweet shop there, but that has been shut for almost two years now. The owner used the terrace to store goods and house some labourers."
 
 Commenting on the condition of the building, Dinesh says, "All the buildings in the area are old, and this one was already was in a dilapidated state. These buildings require a lot of maintenance, but no work had been done on it since two years. Though the preliminary probe suggests that excess load on the terrace could have led to the collapse, I think that the recent earthquake must have damaged the already-weak structure."
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Dinesh adds that the restaurant will remain closed until he gets a clearance from the Delhi Police and the NDMC. "I don’t want to take any risk. Though we have taken every precaution and the collapsed roof was not a part of our restaurant, I will wait for a clearance," he says.
 
 Aman Sahni, the general manager of Unplugged Courtyard, says, "On Saturday nights, guests usually start coming in around 9-9.30pm, and when this incident happened, there were around 20-22 guests in the restaurant. When we first heard the crash, everyone was stunned. We then asked the guests to go out from the emergency exit, since we were not sure what had happened.” Another staff member added that there could have been around 70-80 guests in the restaurant had the incident occurred around 9-9.30pm. "After the incident, we started getting calls from people who had made reservations for Saturday night," he says.
 
 After the first collapse, the NDMC sealed the terrace of 21 restaurants and as per their norms, the terrace or balconies of heritage buildings (like the ones in CP) cannot be used for commercial activity. The move was met by protest from restaurateurs, who claimed that the NDMC was using the collapse as an excuse to shut their terrace operations. The civic body will also conduct a survey of all "dangerous" buildings in the area by the end of this month, to avoid any further mishap. They will formulate a policy to regulate structures installed on rooftops in commercial centres.
 
