The team of television show  , who has been shooting in Jaipur since September, is loving their stint in the city and has made the city their second home. Shooting for a family picnic scene in Sitapura Industrial area, we recently caught up with the whole crew.JAIPUR IS SHOOTING-FRIENDLY “We were planning to shoot in some hill station initially, but when our channel, who has recently set up its studio in Jaipur, proposed the idea of shooting here, we agreed because this city is shooting-friendly and has beautiful locations. It was a task though to convince the entire crew to leave their comfort zone in Mumbai and shift to Jaipur temporarily , but I am glad we came here,“ says Rajshree, one of the producers of the show.

 
 
 
 Shamata Anchan, who is playing the lead role in the show, says, "We have been staying in the city for more than five months now and it has become our second home."
 
  
  
 She adds, “Though I am always caught up in shooting, I have managed to explore the city a little. I have visited Nahargarh Fort and local markets of the city.“ Rashmi Somwanshi, who is playing the role of Shamata's sister in the show, says, “I came to Jaipur last year also to shoot for my feature film, Kotputli. I think Jaipur has turned out to be a lucky charm for most of the films and shows that have been shot here. They all have been done well and I hope it works for our show too.'
 
 
 
 
 Nikhil Sabharwal, who is playing a parallel lead in the show, told us, “More than the forts, I was interested in trying Jaipur's local cuisines. I am pretty sure I have tried every restaurant of the city in these five months.“  , who is also playing a parallel lead in the show, says, “I have tried Rajasthani food before coming here for the show and I have to say I just can't get over daal bati churma.“
 
 
 
 
 Madhu Anand Chandhock, who is making her television debut with this show says, “Shooting in the chilly winters of Jaipur has been difficult. A couple of days ago we shot for an outdoor scene in six degree temperature. The shoot started early morning and went on till two in the night. Since, we were shooting for a summer scene in the show, it was challenging to shoot without warm clothes.“
 
 
  
  
 
