CHENNAI: Around six weeks after   dairy development   K T   kicked up a row saying, quite repeatedly, that   and milk products of private dairies caused cancer and were found adulterated with toxic substances, three top companies have moved Madras high court seeking Rs 1 crore each as compensation from him. They also sought an interim order of injunction, gagging the minister from making or issuing such statements to print, electronic and all forms of mass media.

 Justice C V Karthikeyan, before whom the civil suits filed by Hatsun, Dodla and Vijay Dairy came up for admission on Monday, issued notices and posted the matter to July 27 for further hearing.
 
 The minister’s “baseless statements and accusations” have had, and continued to have, a grave impact on the products and credibility of private dairies, said the companies, adding, “Rajendra Balaji was sworn in minister on August 30, 2016 and has recently started a media campaign against private dairies. The statements made by him on at least half a dozen occasions since May 24, are nothing but scurrilous attack, completely unsubstantiated and most times, totally absurd.”
 
 The civil suits were filed by Hatsun Agro Product Limited represented by its managing director RG Chandamohan, Dodla Dairy Limited represented by its managing director Dodla Sunil Reddy and Vijay Dairy & Farm Products Private Limited represented by its managing director Jeyaraman Madhan Mohan.
 
 The statements are published in leading newspapers circulated in Chennai and they affected private dairies and created a sense of disgust and revulsion on milk and milk products manufactured by private dairies as a whole, they said. 
 
 Unless the court prevents the minister from causing damage to the companies, by stopping him from making any such disparaging accusations without any basis, private dairies like the three applicant-companies, would stand to lose heavily, the petitions said.
 
 The statements made by the minister could not be part of his official duties, since the department of dairy development did not have anything to do with private dairies, the said. The minister’s statements, therefore, were nothing but scurrilous attack, completely baseless, they added.
 
 They wanted the court to direct the minister to pay the companies Rs 1 crore each to the three companies, with 24% annual interest, towards damages for losses suffered by them as a direct consequence of his statement.
 
 They sought a permanent injunction restraining the minister from making any statements or remarks or insinuations directly disparaging milk and milk products manufactured and marketed by them to the media, both print and visual, including any other mode of mass communication or social media or indirectly by making denigrating and baseless accusations of adulteration against private dairies in Tamil Nadu as a whole.
 
 
