The city is still heaving itself into the day as we walk down the winding, cobbled lanes of  , and the tapestry of constant street noise rent the air. And then we stumble upon a tiny, non-descript workshop, which may not turn heads on any other regular day. During the   season, though, this tiny shop bursts with colours and creativity. Two heads rise from behind a heap of bamboo sticks, paper and bright confetti, the main ingredients of the quintessential  . One of them identifies himself as  . Finally, we have found him. 
Despite the colourful paraphernalia, one wouldn’t expect a ‘story’ behind this shop that Srinivas inherited, but it boasts of a century-old legacy. “This shop has been in our family since generations. We are one of the 20-30 families in the city belonging to the  , which fashions thottelu for Bonalu. My grandfather was a craftsman, so was my father. Our family has been making thottelu during Bonalu, kites during Sankranti and other handicrafts during Dussehra and Diwali for several years,” he says. 
 Srinivas and his family begin work on the thottelu two months before the Bonalu festivities kick off. Every piece is hand-crafted, made from scratch. Creating the basic structure from bamboo sticks is more than a day’s job while embellishments and customisation as per the customer’s taste takes a couple more days. “We make thottelu of various sizes, from two to 50 feet-high, priced between `200 and `40,000. A stack of bamboo itself costs 
 us Rs 100-150 now, as opposed to earlier times when it cost us only `40,” he says, claiming that none of the raw materials that the craftsmen require is provided to by the government at subsidised rates. 
 The job of those belonging to the Medara community is such that they are the only ones who prepare the odds and ends that mark everything from one’s birth to weddings — even death. But now, with modernisation and availability of readymade products, there are few who follow the age-old traditions of using a woven mat for a newborn or a specially woven basket to carry the bride during weddings. 
 While Srinivas and his four brothers had no choice but to carry on the family business, making this dying art their bread and butter is not something he wishes for his children. His son and two daughters hold college degrees and are looking for white-collared jobs, while his brothers’ children continue to carry on the tradition. “There’s nothing left in this life. I sent my children to 
 college so they can have a better life than I did. Several customers have relied on us for generations, especially the Golconda Temple committee, but the art is dying and I cannot deny that,” he rues. 
 
