NAGPUR: Even as there is no sign of announcement about the new   of Yashwantrao Chavan Maharashtra Open University (YCMOU) after five days, grapevine in Nagpur is ripe about pro vice-chancellor   being the favourite candidate.

 On February 24, TOI reported that the chancellor’s office had conducted interviews of five shortlisted candidates including Yeole, head of NU political science department  , Indira Gandhi National Open University  , former registrar of Jalgaon University Ashok Mahajan, and VM Vani of Nashik, a day before.
 
 On Monday, NU circles were abuzz with speculations that Yeole looked the strongest among three probable favourites — Kashikar and Vayunandan being the other two — to claim the coveted post.
 
 An official of NU exam section, which directly reports to the Pro-VC, claimed that Yeole would certainly make it as he is being backed by none other than chief minister Devendra Fadnavis. But his colleague from another department was quick to point out that the announcement has been delayed because of a South Indian being in the race, a hint at Vayunandan being the governor’s favourite.
 
 However, sources in YCMOU feel even if Yeole gets the top post, it won’t be a cakewalk for the NU Pro-VC, who is credited for bringing in several reforms such as the 50:50 exam pattern, online exam processes and tougher PhD norms. 
 
 Yeole has also been working on introducing an anti-plagiarism software as a quality control measure.
 
 “Four YCMOU vice-chancellors, who belonged to traditional universities, have quit mid-way in the past. A candidate coming from traditional a university like NU may find it difficult to adjust to the culture of open universities. The Act governing them too is different and it may take a year for the new VC to understand the functioning. Among the probable trioka, only Vayunandan comes from an open university,” they said.
 
 They alos added that the delay has been unprecedented as other vice-chancellors were informed about the appointment on the day of the interview.
 
 When TOI asked Governor C Vidyasagar Rao’s office PRO Umesh Kashikar about a likely date of announcement, he refused to comment.
 
 In the February 24 report, TOI had also stated that the Chancellor’s office held back announcement of YCMOU vice-chancellor’s name after holding interviews of five shortlisted candidates because of the model code of conduct.
 
