PATNA: Governor-cum-chancellor Keshri Nath Tripathi said here on Wednesday the state government should create a road map for developing and modernizing all the public libraries with a view to ensuring all round development of the state.

 Inaugurating the renovated library of Patna University along with a   centenary pillar, Tripathi described libraries as ‘rich depositories of knowledge’ and called upon the youths to make maximum use of books in the library. 
 
 “We cannot develop emotional relationship with the internet or other electronic facility, but we can certainly develop friendship with the books. Those who fail to connect with the books remain far behind in the race of their life,” he said.
 
 The chancellor expressed the hope that the renovated and modernized library would attract the students and faculty members and motivate them to read books. Teachers must visit libraries regularly so that they can motivate their students to consult text books and reference books.
 
 Tripathi also inaugurated the conserved manuscripts of the library. The PU library has more than 5,500 manuscripts in different languages, including 1,530 in Persian, 440 in Urdu, 316 in Arabic and 2,547 in Sanskrit, Maithili and Hindi. They are written on leather, ‘bhojpatra’, palm leaves, Nepali paper and on paper with gold and silver linings. Some based on Maithili grammar, the Ramayana, the Mahabharata and the history of Bihar and Magadh belong to the 13th century.
 
 Patna University VC Ras Bihari Prasad Singh said the 98-year-old library, which was established just after the end of the first World War, has been utilized by lakhs of scholars down the ages. He announced the library, which remained closed for about two years for renovation work, would reopen on Thursday and function from 9am to 7pm.
 
 He said steps would be taken later to keep the library open from 7am to 7pm on all working days. But, in any case, it would not be allowed to function as “rain basera” (night shelter) any longer, he added.
 
 Nalanda Open University’s VC R K Sinha, PU pro-VC Dolly Sinha, registrar Rabindra Kumar and PU library incharge S R Pdamadeo also spoke on the occasion. 
 
 
