Dr  , 75, is not new to controversy -as president of   and an RSS leader, he is full of fire and brimstone when it comes to Hindutva. A general physician,   left his practice 15 years ago to involve himself in social service. In an interview to TOI, he says every instance of violence in   is being given a communal tint.

 Why has Dakshina Kannada got the tag of being a communally-sensitive district?
 
 One reason is politics. Many problems here can be solved if politics is kept out. I have said several times that there are no problems between Hindus and others. The confusion happens when issues like love jihad, conversions and cow slaughter crop up.The Constitution allows every individual to practice his or her religion without fear and we don't have any issue with it. Every year, when Hindu processions are taken out there are problems. But it does not happen when   and Christians take out processions. I have friends in every religion and they too are against conversions, love jihad and cow slaughter.
 
 How is politics or politicians connected with these issues?
 
 Politicians aggravate it.They should assess the situation objectively and ask the police to do their job. Secondly , Christians and Muslim leaders should come forward to set things right when something adverse happens.
 
 Moral policing and cow vigilantism in the coastal belt are mostly ascribed to the saffron groups. Isn't there a saner way to deal with it?
 
 We retaliate when others attack us. When our members stop cattle traffickers, the latter attack and skirmishes happen. If police takes action, 70% of these incidents will reduce.
 
 You may claim your speeches are not inflammatory but they lead to tensions...
 
 I'm only involved in nation building. My entire speech should be read, not just in between the lines. I call on Hindus to face problems head on and be awake. I will make such speeches in future too.
 
 Why does your name crop up whenever there is communal tension?
 
 I say boldly what others don't. I mention forests minister   when he does something wrong, and he refers to me. Personally, I don't have any enmity with him. Ideologically , I have differences with him. I oppose what is wrong and I can go to any extent.
 
 How do you plan to run your school, now that grants from   temple have been denied?
 
 It was a grave injustice since 90% of the students belong to the Ahinda group.That's why we were giving midday meals. There's no question of begging this inhuman government. We will go to the public for alms. We believe society will always support good initiatives. As of now it's an uphill task. We want to be self-reliant.
 
