CHENNAI/COIMBATORE: A day after shocking visuals of a   and   at   went viral, the state government told the Madras high court that an inquiry had been instituted against additional superintendent of police Pandiarajan.The   (NHRC) and   (SHRC) too issued notices to the government.

 On Wednesday , during a hearing by the first bench of Chief Justice Indira Banerjee and Justice M Sundar, state advocate general R Muthukumaraswamy said action was being taken against the officer. The protesters had pelted police with stones, injuring many , including an inspector, and damaging a police vehicle, he claimed. The NHRC, which called for a report in two weeks, said: “It appears the police had resorted to indiscriminate beating of protestors.“ In their order, the judges said: “From the averments in the writ petition, it appears the relocation of a shop in Tirupur area resulted in protest. It is alleged that police committed excesses; in particular it is alleged that one Easwari of Iyyampalayam and one Sivaganesh of Samalapuram were injured. So far as the relocation of the shop is concerned, advocate general submitted that the relocation is cancelled. So far as the injured are concerned, they may be examined in any government hospital of their choice and, if necessary, they be provided treatment and all the treatment expenses will be borne by the state government. So far as the errant police officer is concerned, advocate general submitted that action has already been initiated and an inquiry is instituted.“
 
 The NHRC, calling for a report within two weeks, said: “It appears that the police had taken law into their hands by exceeding their power in resorting to indiscriminate beating of the protesters.“
 
 “Reports indicate sad state of affairs where innocent and peaceful protesters were beaten resulting in severe injuries. The act of police is nothing but serious violation of human rights, that too those guaranteed to women and their self-respect,“ it said.SHRC chairperson T Meenakumari asked additional director general of police (investigation) for a detailed report to be submitted to the registrar within six weeks. Earlier in the morning, advocate K Balu and activist K R `Traffic' Ramaswamy requested the bench for an urgent hearing.
 
 The issue relates to a protest against relocation of a Tasmac outlet to Samalapuram near Coimbatore where the protesters blocked Sulur legislator R Kanagaraj's car leading to a lathicharge. On Tuesday morning, Balu said, Tasmac outlets and bars were being relocated following the Supreme Court ruling that no such entities should be permitted within 500 metres of national and state highways. He said Eswari was slapped by additional superintendent of police Pandiarajan, and another protester, Sivaganesan, suffered head injuries.
 
 Besides providing proper attention to the two, the erring officer should be punished, his counsel N R Rajah said. Noting that 3,321 Tasmac outlets had to be relocated in TN, he sought a direction to the government to frame a scheme on relocation.
 
 Referring to a November 16, 2016, Madras high court judgment which said the court could not allow liquor outlets tio be run when people were protesting against their operation, Rajah said the authorities, disregarding public opposition, were opening liquor outlets with police protection.
 
