AHMEDABAD: For Ankita Patel (26) — a London resident —   is more than a mother. But Bhavnaben is neither   nor her adoptive parent. She is her mother-in-law who in one sweeping gesture cancelled the   and became a mom.

 Ankita recalled how just 20 days after her wedding in May 2014 she fell sick and was diagnosed with life-threatening kidney failure. “As a new bride struggling to settle in my my in-laws’ house, the illness was a shocker,” Ankita said. “Dreadful thoughts crossed my mind as my in-laws were practically strangers to me. In such a situation, I cannot describe in words my feeling when my mother-in-law told me she had decided to donate her kidney to me. I had cried in relief and gratitude.”
 
 Bhavnaben said Ankita’s parents were helpless, as her father had high blood pressure while her mother had kidney stones. “There was clarity in me that my daughter-in-law is not bahu but beti,” Bhavnaben said. “I had to save her life. Today, she begins her day with a call to me from London. We share a strong bond.”
 
 Mothers gave them birth. But it was their mothers-in-law who gave them a second life. Brought up on the incessant feed of scheming saas-bahu serials, few women across Gujarat and India realize that truth can be happier than fiction.
 
 For instance Mukta Gulati (33), a Kota resident, had never dreamt that her mother-in-law — who was unhappy with her love marriage to her son Dheeraj — would volunteer to give her a new lease of life. 
 
 Mukta had been diagnosed with acute kidney failure. She was in urgent need of a kidney but her father had passed away while mother was highly diabetic. “My brother and sister were reluctant to donate their organ,” said an emotional Mukta who is mother to 11-year-old Tanisha. “It was a big, pleasant surprise when my mother-in-law Rajrani stepped forward as the donor. We were admitted together to a hospital for the transplant on June 3, 2015, and in one stroke, the saas-bahu relationship became the ma-beti bond.”
 
 A Porbandar resident, Chetna Makwana (32), recently received a kidney from her mother-in-law Manju (53). The high blood pressure of Chetna — a mother of two kids: Khyati (11) and Karan (7) —during her pregnancies had taken a toll on her kidneys. “My mother-in-law saved my life,” said Chetna. 
 
 “She said that being a mother, she knew that my children need their mother. I have seen families abandon their daughters-in-law when they become chronically ill. I am lucky that my mother-in-law considers me her own.” Bhavnaben said she is a widow. “It is time society re-scripted the saas-bahu story. Families should treat their bahus as daughters”, said the matriarch, who has studied till class 4. Transplant coordinators say that mothers-in-law donating kidneys to daughters-in-law is a rare occurrence but said that a promising beginning had been made. In all, there have been only 11 such donations in the two major kidney hospitals in Gujarat, eight in IKDRC in Ahmedabad and three in Nadiad Kidney hospital.
 
 “This is a positive shift from the   where each is shown as the enemy of the other,” said Sujata Rajapurkar, the transplant coordinator at MPUH Nadiad Kidney hospital. Priya Shah of IKDRC said she has also witnessed the rare case of a mother-in-law insisting that she be the donor. 
 
