THRISSUR: Students of the the   and Research Centre (NCERC), Pambady resumed their agitation on Wednesday demanding dismissal of the PRO Sanjit Vaiswanathan, vice principal M K Sakthivel and, assistant professor C P Praveen,, who are among the accused in the case relating to the unnatural death of the engineering student Jishnu Pranoy.

 The college was remaining closed for more than a month after the body of Jishnu was found in the bathroom of the college hostel on January 6. However the students returned to classes on February 17 following the talks between the representatives of the students, management and staff mediated by the district collectors of Thrissur and Palakkad.
 
 According to the students the management had then assured that the staff who are in the accused list of the police in Jishnu death case would be expelled.
 
 However when the decision was getting delayed, the students launched a sit-in in the office of the acting chairman Krishnakumar at around noon on Wednesday. A huge contingent of police was posted in the college following the agitation by the students.
 
 According to the students Krishnkaumar, had said that he cannot sign in the dismissal order of the staff, as he is only an acting head of the institution. Krishnakumar is the brother of P Krishna Das, chairman and managing trustee of the Nehru College of Educational and Charitable Trust. Krishnakumar became the acting chairman of the college after the students demanded that Krishna Das should not be allowed to come to the college as the police had listed him as the first accused in the Jishnu death case.
 
 According to late reports the police officials who are at the spot are mediating talks to end the agitation by the students.
 
 Meanwhile, protest is mounting against the delay in the arrest of all the accused in the Jishnu death case. According to critics it was the lapses on the part of the police that paved the way for the accused evading the arrest. Even the AISF, the students’ feeder organisation of the CPI, has announced a march to the district rural SP office on Saturday demanding immediate arrest of all the accused in the Jishnu death case.
 
