BATHINDA: People are forced to drink   in villages where Punjab State Power Corporation Limited(PSPCL) has   to water works for failing to pay the power bills. At several such villages where the power supply has been snapped, people are depending on canal waters nearby. 

 Perturbed residents of Raike Kalan village and Bahadargarh Jandia adjoining CM Parkash Singh Badal’s native village Badal and Ram Nagar village on Friday “illegally” restored the power connection of water works.
 
 After the polling for the Punjab assembly elections on February 4, PSPCL had launched a campaign to recover nearly Rs. 1,100 crore pending towards 35 government departments and 8.28 lakh individuals. Nearly, Rs 300 crore is pending towards public health department, village panchayats. A big chunk of the due is to be released from water works in nearly 12,000 villages of Punjab. Water works, which supply water to residents in villages turned out to be biggest sufferer from PSPCL going in the overdrive as power supply of over 200 water works have been snapped in Malwa region over a period of 15 days.
 
 Although, many of the villages have reverse osmosis (RO) systems installed for safe drinking water. Connections of ROs have not been snapped but all residents of villages cannot afford RO water. Many are still dependent on supply from water works.
 
 “Residents of Raike Kalan and Bahadargarh Jandia village with the support of Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) Ugrahan, a farm organization on Friday joined the snapped power connection to restore supply from village water works. The water works connection was snapped six days ago for failure to pay Rs. 3.30 lakh. Even though villagers used to contribute Rs. 75 per household per month, the dues started to add up and the connection was snapped. In these six days, we were forced to drink contaminated water from water tank or nearby canal”, said Raike resident and BKU Ugrahan block Sangat general secretary Kulwant Rai.
 
 Similarly, the residents of other villages too have started thinking of restoring the power connection if the authorities fail to pay the dues for restoring the power supply. The residents of Jai Singh Wala village in Bathinda said “After the snapping of power supply to water works we are forced to drink contaminated water. We have collected some amount but are ready to restore the connection if authorities fail to restore it”.
 
 PSPCL executive engineer at Badal village division Harish Gothwal said “Power supply of over dozen water works has been snapped but we have no information that Raike village has illegally restored it. Action will be taken if anyone is found having restored the supply without informing PSPCL”.
 
 
 
