New Army chief General   has warned Pakistan that it should stop aiding and abetting cross-border infiltration and terrorism, saying that his 1.3-million strong force has the requisite will, intelligence and capability to destroy terror wherever it emanates.

 Pointing to the “surgical strikes“ conducted by the Army on terror launch pads in PoK on September 29, Rawat told TOI in an exclusive interview on Tuesday: “The operation's unequivocal message was we have the capability, we are aware of the terror infrastructure that lies across the border and intelligence is forthcoming.“
 “If the need arises... we can strike effectively. The surgical strikes achieved good success. The aim and intention was fully achieved. We are not a war mongering nation but there are certain thresholds that shouldn't be crossed. Our response will vary,“ he said. 
 
 Though there has been some de-escalation along the line of control (LoC) after massive retaliatory fire assaults by the Indian Army and Gen Qamar Javed Bajwa taking over the reins of the Pakistan army from Gen Raheel Sharif, there are still about 20 terror-training camps running at full capacity in PoK and Pakistan.
 
 Apart from the different options available to take the battle to the terrorists and their handlers, the Army chief was also quite sanguine about the Indian armed forces being capable of handling a twofront contingency in the backdrop of the collusive threat from Pakistan and China.
 
 Gen Rawat, who took over as the 27th Army chief from Gen Dalbir Singh Suhag on December 31, said, “The two-front is a real scenario. Much has changed from before in terms of our capabilities...The Army, Navy and IAF are now jointly very much prepared for such an eventuality .“
 
 Apart from the development of the Agni-V and Agni-IV nuclear-capable ballistic missiles, the forces have taken a series of steps to slowly but surely transform the “dissuasion“ posture against China into “deterrence“, which in turn is now being upgraded to “credible deterrence“.
 
 The Army is also raising the new 17 Mountain Strike Corps, which with 90,274 soldiers will have two high-altitude infantry divisions.
 
 While India wants cooperation, not confrontation with China, the new corps will ensure “quick-reaction ground offensive capabilities“ on the “northern borders“ for the first time. “The raisings for the new corps are underway, while weapons and equipment are also being acquired. The infrastructure is also coming up. There is full support from the government. All adversaries respect strength, which comes from having the capability to strike across the border,“ said Gen Rawat.
 
 The Army chief did, however, acknowledge the excruciating slow progress of infrastructure development in construction of 73 all-weather roads along the line of actual control with China as well as the 14 “strategic“ railway lines on the two fronts. While the rail lines only exist on paper, only 22 of the 73 roads have been completed over a decade after they were first identified.
 
 “But there is a renewed impetus now. The government has reorganized the BRO, including shifting it to the defence ministry from the ministry of road transport.Technology is also being increasingly used. Tunneling is also being examined for not only road connectivity , but also command and control centers and storage,“ he said.
 
