TRICHY: A series of   in the city and outskirts in the last 24 hours have thrown cops into a tizzy. In the first instance, burglars got into a   in the city and decamped with Rs 25,000 cash on Wednesday night. They apparently spotted the CCTVs installed there and took away the cameras also so as not to leave any trace of the incident. 

 The burglary took place at a mini departmental store in a commercial complex near Fathima church opposite Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital (MGMGH). The incident came to light only when the owner E Charles went to the shop on Thursday morning. The offenders gained entry into the shop by breaking open the shutter. It was found that Rs 25,000 cash kept in the cash box was missing. The goods in the shops were scattered. Acting shrewdly, the burglars removed the   camera, monitor and even the recorder from the shop to leave the police clueless about their identity. Government hospital police registered a case and are investigating . 
 
 In another incident, a theft was reported at Alwar Thoppu in Palakkarai area in the city. A couple of young men stormed into the house of Faridha and decamped with a cell phone. As she raised an alarm, the youths in the area chased them. The duo tried to leave the place by a motorcycle but failed after the fuel went dry. So, they left the place leaving behind the bike and around 10 cell phones. The youths handed over the bike and the cell phones to Palakkarai police. 
 
 The rural part of the district also witnessed a shop break-in in the night. The incident occurred at Rafiq Raja’s mobile phone outlet and Abdul Malik’s garment shop near Thurvarnkurichi bus stand after they closed the shops and left. Both were shocked when they returned to see their shops burgled on Thursday morning. It was found that the thieves gained entry into the shop by removing the tiled roofs. The shop owners lodged a complaint that about 50 cell phones and 40 readymade garments had been stolen. Thurvarankurichi police registered a case in this connection.
 
 
