AKOLE (AHMEDNAGAR): Hundreds of tribals in the backward Akole taluka of   are queueing up at banks, not to withdraw money, but to open accounts because the grapevine that the government would ‘convert’ black money into white and deposit it in the accounts of the poor has gone viral. 

 Despite facing hardship because of  , poor tribal community believes that the government has taken this step to help the poor. And they are eagerly waiting for money to come into their accounts.
 
 “Ask the government to help immediately. I need money desperately,” says  , folding her hands and tears rolling down, taking a break from herding cows in mountains of remote Dadarmal.
 
 Hirabai’s husband is in hospital after a road accident. Doctors have asked her to pay a bill of Rs 1 lakh. Hirabai is helpless.
 
 “My son is struggling hard to collect money. Rs 1 lakh is like a crore for us,” she says in a choked voice. She has high hopes from ‘Maibaap Sarkar (the government)’. 
 
 Like many others, Hirabai is unaware of what demonetisation is all about. But what she has heard from people around that the government has taken a step to “seize” black money from the rich and deposit it in accounts of the poor.
 
 The ‘money deposit’ rumour mill is so strong that adivasis are lining up before banks and at cyber cafés in Akole taluka, around 350km from Pune. Café owners are promising them to open account in the State Bank of India and charging them between Rs 200 and Rs 250.
 
 Baluchand Lote, a farmer, says, “People are rushing to banks to open accounts. Also, many people are approaching us saying that we need to have separate accounts to get the money. Days after days we are running after cash, which continues to elude us. I hope the government keeps its promise.” He doesn’t forget to add that he is not against the government’s decision of “scrapping” Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 notes. He fears that he will not get money if he speaks against the government.
 
 In Satewadi hamlet located in hilly area,   is ready to give information about his new address when asked about demonetisation. “Please note down in your dairy that Savlaram Muthe lives at the corner of Satewadi in a newly built hut. This is my new address. Earlier, I used to live in the middle of the village. There should not be any mistake in address, else the help will reach elsewhere,” he says in a trembling voice while enquiring about demonetisation.
 
 Muthe says the government should take a quick call on giving money to the poor as it took in the case of demonetisation. 
 
 Walking towards her village, Yelubai Talpe shares her big hope from the government. “I don’t know exactly what has happened. But all of a sudden there is a buzz that the life of poor people will improve and we shall get something. If poor like us get money, it will help us,” she says.
 
 A young girl walking with Yelubai stops to say, “Why do you dream all the time? Nothing will happen and nobody will give you money. Governments come and go. You just keep walking. We have to reach the village before dark.”
 
 As Yelubai continues to talk about money, the girl leaves her behind and walks towards Phophsandi. 
 
 Bhausaheb Dhindal has come to Rajur market for the third time to sell his pair of bulls. This time, he plans to stay back as long as he doesn’t get a customer.
 
 “The government’s decision to scrap Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 notes has hit us the most. All markets are at a standstill. The government has taken the decision to punish people having black money, but actually we are being punished. We deserve compensation for standing in queues to withdraw our own money,” he says patting his cattle.
 
 “I care for them and that’s why I have not sold them to a butcher. It is not about the government ban on selling cows and bullocks to butcher, it is about behaving like human beings. This pair has helped me a lot in farming, but now I want to get younger bulls. But that doesn’t mean I shall sell this pair to butcher. I shall never do that,” he says, adding that if he takes so much care of his animals, the government must take cake of its people while taking any decision. “I feel the government did not bother about us while taking the demonetisation decision,” he says. 
 
 The BJP leadership from the state- to local-level has succeeded to communicate that the poor will benefit because of the demonetisation decision. The local leaders are confidently saying that the poor will get money in their accounts.
 
 Not surprisingly, 50 days after the government’s decision on demonetisation, the countdown for money and fulfilment of promise to change lives has started in remote hilly villages of Ahmednagar district.
 
 
