MADURAI: Fresh protests involving youths and villagers erupted at Alanganallur, the epicentre of the ongoing pro-jallikattu protests, as 227-odd youths who started the protest on Monday and carried through the night were forcefully evicted by police on Tuesday morning.

 The information went viral prompting youths to gather in large numbers at Alanganallur since morning. There was no big outfit or leader behind the protest but thousands including some from faraway Coimbatore as well as neighbouring districts arrived voluntarily throughout the day to render moral support to the protest.
 
 The crowd also did not want politicians to hijack the agitation and turned away some MLAs who tried to make their presence felt. They threw footwear and water packets at Sholavandan MLA K Manickam who tried to talk to them. DMK MLAs P Moorthy and PTR Palanivel Thiagarajan also had to retreat. Cine stars too dropped in to register their support to the peaceful protests carried out by the youths. Directors Ameer and Karthik Subbaraj along with Naam Tamilar Katchi leader Seeman turned up to express solidarity with the youths.
 
 Around 6.30 am on Tuesday, police asked the youths continuing the protest overnight to disburse saying permission for the protest had ended on Monday. As they refused to budge, 227 youths including three women were forcibly removed and detained in a marriage hall. As they resorted to hunger strike, many of them were released in batches. However, around 50 of them preferred to stay in and continued their protest.
 
 Kalidoss, a youth from Sivakasi, said “We started off today’s protest for the release of the protesters who were whisked away. But we are in no mood to call it off until   is conducted here.”
 
 The mild lathicharge of protesters on Monday and forceful eviction on Tuesday morning only helped to mobilise more youth to protest in other parts of the state. A large number of youths blocked the Madurai - Trichy highway at Othakadai for about 30 minutes. “The entire world knows that we were protesting peacefully. Police should have had the courtesy to handle us smoothly. We are not criminals to be lathicharged,” said J Manikandan, a second year college student from Madurai city.
 
 Similar protests were conducted at places around Alanganallur including Vadipatti, Thettur, Sikkandarchavady, Avaniaypuram, Kalavasal, Periyar bus terminal, Koodal Nagar and Mattuthavani in Madurai. Protesters were either subjected to preventive arrest or disbursed using mild force. Students and youths from Virudhunagar, Theni and Tuticorin too joined the agitation while plans for a mass gathering at Goripalayam were also afoot. A Pandi, a student from   said that they were in no mood to stop the protest. Tomorrow a large number of students from the city are going to gather at Goripalayam junction to stage a protest, he said.
 
 Madurai district superintendent of police Vijayendra S Bidari said security arrangements with around 2,500 police personnel drawn from neighbouring districts were in place. Not even one jallikattu bull was allowed to be let loose through ‘vadivaasal’, he said. There have been several arrests and detention for trying to conduct the sport in the district, he said.
 
 
