PANAJI: It’s been about two months since they were displaced and their classrooms were turned into makeshift strong rooms to store the   from 21 constituencies in South Goa; the students of the Government College of Commerce and Economics, Borda-Margao, still don’t know when they will be able to resume their regular classes in the college building. 

 The college was selected as the election counting centre for   and despite the counting winding up on Saturday evening, election officials are yet to vacate the premises. 
 
 Over 200 students have been accommodated in the premises of the neighbouring building of the multipurpose higher secondary school but have had to reschedule college timings to be able to share the campus. 
 
 Instead of classes beginning at 8.30am and wrapping up at 1.30pm, they begin at 1.30pm and wind up after 6pm for the college students. 
 
 With a few crucial days left to complete and revise the portion, and with the final exams for third year students beginning in April, the teachers didn't appreciate the additional holiday they were ordered to take on Saturday, the counting day. 
 
 The newly-constructed building was inaugurated by then chief minister Laxmikant Parsekar on December 4, last year. The students and staff moved into the building on January 3 and were asked to vacate on January 21. 
 
 “Although our lecturers want to hold extra classes, they can't keep us in college after 6.30pm. We have buses to catch,” one student said. 
 
 In Panaji, over 200 students of Bal Bhavan's pre -primary and primary school are expected to move classes back to their old premises on Wednesday. 
 
 The EVMs and VVPATs for 19 constituencies in North Goa were stored at Bal Bhavan, where the counting took place on Saturday.
 
 The students were temporarily moved to the Entertainment Society of Goa complex for more than a month where they were given six rooms and one large hall that they converted into makeshift classrooms. 
 
 Parents had requested the government not to use educational institutions for the elections with dates so close to their exams, but their plea fell on deaf ears. 
 
 Classes related to art – harmonium, tabla, guitar, drawing, craft, computer, creative writing and dance – were also moved out. 
 
