LUCKNOW:   chief   will make a rare visit to Shabbirpur village in   where   were attacked allegedly by members of the upper caste on May 5. Mayawati has been facing criticism for not meeting her core Dalit vote bank while remain ensconced in her bungalows in Delhi and Lucknow. Not suprisingly, instead of taking an aerial route, Mayawati will drive down from her official residence in 3 Thayagaraj road in New Delhi to the violence-hit village.

 Mayawati’s decision to visit Saharanpur comes a day after hundreds and thousands of Dalits held a demonstration in Delhi in protest after people of the community in the village were attacked and their houses burnt down allegedly by members of the upper caste on May 5. There have also been reports of enraged Dalits resorting to religious conversion following the incident. Some social organisations working among Dalits too had asked its members to embrace Buddhism in protest.
 
 This will be Mayawati’s third visit by in the last three years after the one to Badaun in July 2014 when two MBC girls were allegedly raped and murdered and then to Una in August 2016 after a group of Dalit youth were flogged by cow vigilantes.
 
 In January 2016, when Hyderabad university’s Dalit scholar Rohit Venula committed suicide accusing harassment by university authorities, Mayawati did not go herself but sent her party’s Rajya Sabha MP Veer Singh as an emissary. She, though, raised the issue in the parliament and later met the Vemula family at her Delhi’s residence.
 
 Political experts said Mayawati understands the need of reaching out to her core Dalit vote bank which sided with the BJP and catapulted the saffron party to power in UP. Dalit ideologue and political expert, S R Darapuri said Mayawati has also been facing strong criticism from the community for maintaining a stoic silence over Saharanpur incident, while speaking in favour of her party’s upper caste leaders like MLA Vinay Tewari and his mafia-turned-politician father Hari Shankar Tewari, whose house was raided by police in connection with a case of loot.
 
 
