AMRITSAR: Ruing lack of   in bringing back the body of his son   (25), who had died in an accident in   ( ) in October 2016, his heart-broken parents were able to perform the last rites of their young son on Sunday, almost after four months. Amritpal is survived by wife   and a 13 month-old-son. 

 Talking to TOI on Monday after immersing his son's ashes at Gurdwara Pataalpuri, Kiratpur Sahib, Parminder Singh told TOI, "Had I been a minister or higher official, my son's body would have come within twentyfour hours of his death and the persons responsible for his death would have been behind bars. But it is not so in my case as I am a common man." 
 
 He said that he had approached the external affairs ministry in this regard, but to no avail.
 
 UK-based right activist Jas Uppal, who took up Amritpal's case, said that the main concern of the family was the considerable delay in sending back Amritpal's body.
 
  Besides, lack of information from both Indian and the Saudi authorities was devastating for them. 
 
 "Singh's family could not grieve as the body had not arrived, which compounded their sufferings."
 
 She said that the investigations into the death revealed that he had become a victim of Kafla sytem, a form of bonded labour operating in the Gulf country.
 
 A resident of Gurdaspur and a graduate, Amritpal was hit by a speeding car being driven by a Saudi national while he was crossing road on foot to take a tea break on October 5, 2016. 
 
 He was admitted in a hospital, where his condition deteriorated and he died on October 10, 2016. 
 
 The body had been lying in a morgue of a Riyadh hospital for the past four months as the hospital authorities had refused to release it for non-payment of bills by his employer. 
 
 Parminder said that his son got allured by high salary and took up a job in a transport company in Riyadh. 
 
 He moaned that though the government had failed to bring back the body of his son in time, but now it should at least think about his family's future and should give a job to his wife on compassionate grounds.
 
 
