NOIDA: Work remained suspended at Oppo India’s Noida assembling centre for the third consecutive day on Thursday

 following a massive protest against the alleged disrespect to the Indian tricolour by a Chinese officer of the company on Monday. The officer was sacked by Oppo on Wednesday.
 
  Noida police said they were examining the company’s CCTV footage which shows the   manager, identified by the police as Suhahu, throwing ‘something’ from the table into the dustbin. The footage, however, is not clear enough to establish what was thrown into the bin.
 
 Suhahu is accused by Indian employees of the company of tearing up a poster with a picture of the Indian national flag and throwing it in a dustbin. The employees protested and demanded strict action against the officer.
 
 The company on Wednesday issued a statement saying that it has zero-tolerance for such incidents.
 
 Ummed Singh, SHO, Phase III police station, said the police investigated the CCTV footage. “We have analysed the footage we received in the first batch. In the video clip, the accused person is seen moving in the room. We have received two more footages, to join the dots,” Singh said. He added that there were some witnesses who claimed they saw the Oppo official disrespecting the flag.
 
 The incident had triggered protests by the employees, who were joined by members of the Vishwa Hindu Parishad in front of the company’s office, while some others took to social media to slam the company for its alleged anti-India actions. Police said they would ask the accused, who has been at large since the day of the incident, to join the probe.
 
 Oppo, which entered the Indian market in 2014, is now the fourth biggest player with an 8.6% market share, according to the latest data from global market research firm  .
 
 The company on Wednesday issued a statement saying it has zero-tolerance for such incidents. Its spokepserson told TOI, “The factory will be reopening soon and we do not expect any impact on the supplies because of the production of our overseas units. We are assessing the situation.”
 
