HYDERABAD: Industrial entrepreneurs can breathe easy. Commercial establishments that have come up in land   purpose can be retained by them.

 Telangana State Industrial Infrastructure Corporation (TSIIC) is in favour of allowing these commercial establishments to continue to function in industrial area land with a rider that these would have to shift their units to the site developed by the government for relocation of industries outside Outer Ring Road.
 
 Several commercial establishments have mushroomed on land allotted for setting up small, medium and large industries. This is rampant in industrial areas located in and around   due to urbanisation and demand for commercial establishments.
 
 TSIIC vice-chairman and managing director   simha Reddy told TOI field officers have been asked to find out whether beneficiaries of industrial land have taken trade licences to run these commercial establishments. “The proposal is to allow these establishments to run after requisite permissions are obtained and also the entrepreneur or indust rialist expands the industry at the designated site outside ORR. The idea is that allowing the commercial unit to continue will act as an incentive for them,“ he said.
 
 There are more than 40 industrial clusters in and around Greater Hyderabad with small, medium and even big industrial units, in cluding 25 Industrial Area Local Authorities (IALAs).TSIIC has also decided to allot land for setting up new industries in districts by tapping funds under the centrally-sponsored Micro and Small Entrepreneurs-Cluster Development Programme.
 
 “We don't want to shift the problem. So, when polluting industries are shifted from the city to outside the ORR, we want to ensure all measures are in place to check pollution. Environmental Protection Training and Research Institute (EPTRI) will suggest measures.Local residents in the vicinity would be relocated,“ said TSIIC vice-chairman.
 
 If works are completed as planned by TSIIC, industries would be relocated outside ORR in early 2018. The corporation is taking up repairs, improvement and development of drainage system, roads and other basic amenities in existing industrial areas.
 
 “Civic infrastructure needs to be strengthened and we are also going to improve power supply infrastructure in industrial areas,“ said officials.
 
