HYDERABAD: Filmmaker Ram Gopal Varma stirred up a hornet's nest with his comments on the ongoing investigation into the drug scam by the Hyderabad police. While IAS officer   has lashed out at the filmmaker for his ''insensitive comments,'' the   (MAA) too distanced itself from RGV's remarks.

 On Saturday, RGV, in a series of posts on his Facebook account spoke out against the manner in which IPS officer Akul Sabharwal was probing the alleged involvement of film personalities in the narcotics drugs case in the city. And in an instantaneous reaction, excise commissioner, IAS officer R V Chandravadan rushed to Sabharwal's defence to state that the film industry was not being targeted.
 
 "I am very much wondering if the school children taking drugs also will also be summoned by SIT and interrogated for 12 hours like they are doing to Poori jagan and Subba Raju ..just asking?" he said on his FB.
 
 With  , director, excise and enforcement, by his side, excise commissioner R V Chandravadan responded to the remarks made by RGV on his FB. "Asking if school children will also be investigated like film personalities is something that is intended to cast aspersions on the investigations," Chandravadan said without naming Ram Gopal Varma.
 
 Ram Gopal Varma also commented that everyone knew about the existence of the prohibition and excise department but this was the first time everyone had heard about it. "This is because they are using the film industry as a teaser trailer for people to come to know their existence," he remarked.
 
 Movie Artistes Association (MAA) president Shivaji Raja to douse the flames sparked off by RGV's utterances, got into the act of asking the police not to give too much importance to Ram Gopal Varma's utterances.
 
 With the entire media reporting about excise and prohibition enforcement director Akun Sabharwal investigating film personalities in the drugs issue, Ram Gopal Varma remarked that the law would take its own course. "But for the moment Akun Sabharwal is being projected like Amarendra   by the media. Maybe S S Rajamouli should make Bahubali 3 with him," he commented.
 
 So far, RGV's protégé director Puri Jagannadh, actor Subba Raju and cinematographer   were questioned in the case. On Saturday, actor Tarun appeared at excise and prohibition office at Nampally for questioning by the Special Investigation Team (SIT). More people from the film industry, including Mumait Khan and Charmme are to be questioned.
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 Ram Gopal Varma, the most articulate film personality in Tollywood or for that matter in the country, chose to react to the investigations on Saturday. Excise and enforcement director, Akul Sabharwal, is investigating the involvement of film personalities following the arrest of some alleged drug peddlers on whose mobiles, telephone numbers of film personalities were found.
  
 "It looks like drugs were never there before the alleged film industry's involvement. Is there a deep- rooted conspiracy to target only the film industry?" Ram Gopal Varma asked.
 
 "How will the enquiry team members feel if they and their family members are being humiliatingly paraded without any basis? I appeal to the humaneness of Mr Sabharwal and his team to be more sensitive in how they do their job," he said advising that people's minds should not be prejudiced against those who were being questioned. "The law clearly says a person is considered innocent until proven guilty and here just on a mere enquiry even without a charge or a case filed people are being projected like criminals," he said.
 
 It may be mentioned here that the film personalities including actors, directors and technicians have been asked to come to the SIT office on the day allotted to them to be questioned and this is what they are doing. Each of them is being grilled on the fifth floor of Abkari building, the office of the excise and prohibition department.
 
 "Why can't Akun Sabharwal say to the press that only he is the authorised person to speak on what's going on and rest are nothing but ill -informed speculations? Akun Sabharwal's silence is making speculations sound like truth thereby causing tremendous damage to reputation of people," he said.
 
 The filmmaker also said Sabharwal, apart from having an intention to curb drug menace, should also be morally responsible to put an end to media speculation about how the people at the enquiry are being treated.
 
 Stating that nobody was suspecting the integrity of Sabharwal, he said media leaks were destroying the reputation of people from the film industry and causing distress to their families.
 
