INDORE: Power supply in the north and central parts of the city remained affected till Tuesday morning following a   in weather on Monday night. While the supply to 60 percent of affected areas was restored by late evening that day, 40 percent of the areas did not have any power till Tuesday morning.

 Residents of the area complained the problem has been continuous and the discom did not take adequate measures to solve the problem. “This has become a daily routine now. As soon as winds come, power goes off,” said Chitrangad Joshi, a resident of Mahalalakshmi Nagar.
 
 However, discom officials said that maintenance work was underway and they did not expect the weather to change like this all of a sudden. 
 
 They said the disruption in supply was due to hoardings and tree branches that fell on overhead cables. While the major problem was resolved by midnight, several households had to wait till morning.
 
 More than 15 feeders were affected due to the damage caused by strong winds. It included four feeders in Vijay Nagar, six in Mahalakshmi Zone, three in the central division and two feeders in east division.
 
 The discom has already started pre-monsoon maintenance work since the last one month to ensure proper electricity supply during the monsoon season. The change in weather also affected their schedule.
 
 Maintenance work was conducted in many areas like   and Vishnupuri. “I woke up early morning because there was no power. The officials said that they were doing maintenance work. The supply was restored only at noon,” said Sumit Sharma, a resident of Vishnupuri.
 
 Among the affected zones that had long power cuts were Mahalakshmi Nagar, Vijay Nagar, Goyal Nagar, Nipania, MR-11 and residential colonies in Sangam Nagar, Nanda Nagar and Sudama Nagar.
 
 Some hoardings had fallen on overhead supply cables in   due to strong winds. This affected two feeders of east division including feeders at Bhagat Singh Nagar and Saket areas. “The supply was restored with the help of alternate   and it took more than eight hours to restore the supply from the feeders,” said an official.
 
