CHANDIGARH: Are drugs and alcohol making more people in Punjab pick up a gun and pull the trigger without thinking about the consequences? Doctors at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, have started looking for answers to this question after getting a sudden surge in the number of people with gunshot wounds from the state in the past four years. 

 As the figures show, the premier institute got just 16 such cases in 2013 from the six states it caters to. But in 2016, this number shot up to 42 with Punjab seeing the maximum number in such cases 24. In all, PGIMER received 122 cases of gunshot injuries in the past four years.
 
 Doctors attribute this rise in gun injuries from Punjab to `machismo' as keeping a sophisticated weapon is believed to be a status symbol in the state. Many popular Punjabi films and songs also glorify both violence and the gun culture. “It has been found that directly or indirectly drug or alcohol abuse lead to a rise in violence.Punjab is notorious for the prevalence of drug abuse,“ said Dr B S  , head of the psychiatry department   and Hospital, 32.
 
 While criminals often use the `katta' or country-made weapon, major injuries that can lead to death are caused by assault more sophisticated weapons. “Depending on the size of injury, a person may or may not survive. Also, it depends on the type of gun and the distance from which the shot is fired. Bullets from sophisticated weapons move at a high velocity and enter the body leaving a small scar. But all this builds up into energy that bursts the surrounding tissues or organs,“ says a neurosurgeon at the PGIMER who did not wish to be quoted.
 
 One of the more recent cases to come to PGIMER and hit the headlines was that of bouncer   alias Meet who was shot and killed on May 8 at   following a tussle with a rival group. He was rushed to PGIMER, but he could not be saved as the killers had pumped four bullets into him.
 
 Earlier, on March 19, Ekam Singh Dhillon, a resident of Mohali was shot dead and stuffed into a suitcase kept in a   car.
 
 “We had four bullet injuries in the past one year in our unit.Three of them were saved and one succumbed to injuries. These patients had bullet shots in the stomach where intestines had to be operated upon and rejoined as they were perforated,“ said Dr G S Verma, department of general surgery at PGIMER.
 
 BIG GAP BETWEEN REEL AND REAL LIFE
 
 Many Hindi movies show doctors operating on a person after receiving a gunshot wound and the person recovering after the bullet is removed.Dismissing this as `masala', Dr Rajesh Chhabra, neurosurgeon at PGIMER said, “Only to prevent any secondary damage caused by the bullet, we perform surgery. The aim is not to remove the bullet as it is sterile (because it moves with high velocity) and until no infection is manifested, it is not removed. What is shown in movies is unrealistic. It is best not to remove the bullet unless necessary.“
 
 COP LIVES WITH BULLET NEAR SPINAL CORD
 
 On June 25, 2014, two men with criminal cases against them were killed in a police encounter. Two policemen were injured in the operation conducted by the Chandigarh police's crime branch. The two alleged criminals were accused in a robbery case in Moga. Subinspector Rajdeep Singh was one of the injured cops. He was shot in the stomach but the bullet travelled to his spinal cord. “It was lodged there and is still there.Initially, I used to have problem is walking. But after I was treated at PGIMER, I can now walk easily though there is a slight numbness on my right foot,“ said Rajdeep, who is now SHO of Sector 39 police station.
 
