Department of revenue intelligence (DRI) sleuths seized 13.5 kilograms of gold bars smuggled from Sri Lanka and arrested five people, in two different incidents in Ramanathapuram district on Saturday night.

 Of late, gold has become one of the common contraband being smuggled from Sri Lanka through sea. The smuggled gold enters into the black market in the state. DRI in the past few months has seized loads of gold bars, all smuggled from Sri Lanka and transported to other places. 
 
 In this incident, after DRI received an information that gold would to be smuggled from Sri Lanka through the sea front, the regional unit at Tuticorin headed by assistant director Parivallal had been closely monitoring Ramanathapuram and Tuticorin coastal areas. 
 
 On Saturday night, they intercepted an SUV at Sayalkudi highway during vehicular check-up. During the search, they found bags stuffed with gold bars. The team seized three large gold bars each weighing one kilogram and 70 small gold bars each weighing 100 grams. Altogether, 10kg of gold was seized from the vehicle. Officials estimated the consignment worth to be around Rs 3 crores. 
 
 The sleuths seized the vehicle and arrested its owner, Sekar, 57, and driver Ravi, 37, both hailing from Madurai. The investigation revealed that the gold bars had been smuggled from Sri Lanka through illegal ferry and the smugglers managed to evade the surveillance of Coast Guard and Marine Police. The duo revealed that they had collected the consignment from a smuggling gang, and were transporting it to Chennai. 
 
 Based on the information obtained from them, DRI later arrested Manohar and Dharcius from Ramanathapuram. The department is investigating further as more people are believed to be involved in the smuggling. 
 
 Meanwhile, in a similar incident, DRI sleuths stopped a two-wheeler rider at Madurai – Ramanathapuram highway junction in the district and checked the vehicle. They found 3.5 kilograms of gold bars in the vehicle. 
 
 The sleuth seized the gold bars and the two wheeler and arrested one Bilal, hailing from Devipattinam in Ramanathapuram district. Officials said the estimated worth of the seized gold bars is around Rs 37 lakhs. 
 
 All five smugglers were produced before the economic offences wing court at Madurai and were remanded in judicial custody. 
 
 
