MUMBAI: Paver blocks, rubber mats, sculptures, lampposts. These are some of the items flooding the gardens as   seek ways to justify beautification costs that run into crores. But the inexpensive options of planting trees and laying grass have been neglected at many of these places.

 The   has beautified 55 gardens for about Rs 100 crore since 2014. With an average project spend of Rs 1 crore, tenders have allocated only a small portion of the budget for horticulture; the bulk is reserved for costlier civil and mechanical work. The result has been over-concretization and inappropriate development of some gardens.
 
 The Minatai Thackeray garden in Dindoshi, for instance, has been almost completely covered with   tiling as part of a Rs 2.5-crore beautification project. The Indulaal Bua garden near Wadala station now boasts more lampposts than trees. The garden was redeveloped last year for Rs 1.5 crore, of which Rs 30 lakh was spent on installing 32 lampposts in the 1,500-sq-m space. There are only 30 trees in the garden, notes Nikhil Desai, a local. The place has been crammed with a rock fountain, a gazebo without benches, and loudspeakers to play music in the evening. “The BMC has misplaced priorities,” said Desai. “People want to hear birds chirp, not loud music.”
 
 Activists say there is no need to spend crores on gardens. According to estimates from the NGO Alliance for Governance and Renewal (NAGAR), based on the examples of Oval Maidan and Dhote Udyan in Prabhadevi, the cost of developing a basic garden should be no more than Rs 7.5 lakh per acre. This includes fencing, greening, planting trees and shrubs, laying a mud walking track, and round-the-clock security.
 
 The Indulaal garden measures 0.37 of an acre, while the Dindoshi garden is 0.74 of an acre. Even if a jungle gym or a basketball court is added, the total development cost for each of these gardens should not come to more than Rs 20 lakh.
 
 “Theme gardens are a money-making exercise,” said Nayana Kathpalia, trustee, NAGAR. “All that Mumbai needs are open gardens with a nice green turf to sit on, a few benches, and good security. The walking track should be a mud-compacted one and hardy, indigenous trees and plants should be planted.”
 
 In many gardens, the BMC has introduced rubber mats under play equipment to protect children from getting hurt. Not only are these mats expensive, but when they tear, they are often not replaced by the contractor, said a retired garden department official.
 
 While the municipal commissioner was not available for comment, officials from the garden department said it is difficult to follow one set of guidelines across the city. “Gardens are being designed as per the requirements of the local population,” said an official. “Some are kept open if actively used for sports, while others are installed with more play equipment if children frequent them or if they are near a school.”
 
 Another official explained that most of the gardens are worked on after receiving suggestions by the corporators concerned.
 
 Not every garden has been over-developed: the Homa Vazir park at the Dadar Parsi Colony has been minimally spruced up with a mud-compacted walking track and a dog section. But even here, residents say, they would like to see more grass and plants.
 
 
