GAYA: With the India Power, the franchise holder for power distribution in Gaya town,   and Manpur areas of the district, getting revenue for less than 50% of power supplied to around 1.13 lakh domestic and non-domestic consumers, the rampant   has put a question mark on the execution programmes for quantitative as well as qualitative improvement in the power scenario, one of the key points of CM  's seven resolutions.

 According to the power company sources, the firm on an average supplies 60 million units per month to its registered users. But the revenue for only about 25 million units is received, which means the remaining 35 million units account for power theft and transmission loss. 
 
 Industry experts feel that 15% transmission loss was acceptable, which means that 10 million units may go in transmission loss. The remaining 25 million units are clandestinely used by the consumers.
 
 Conceding that the incidence of power theft was severely affecting the company,   Rakesh Ranjan said on Saturday that the company had sought police help to launch a campaign against power theft. The first raids under the campaign was in   locality of the town on Friday. 
 
 Of the 60 households inspected by company officials on Day 1, 20 were found engaged in power theft. The power thieves clandestinely got an external gadget implanted in electronic meters that significantly slow down the meter's movement. “Criminal cases have been instituted against power thieves in the   police station of Gaya town,” said Ranjan.
 
 Those using power in excess of the sanctioned load were being let off with penalty and warning, said the DGM. 
 
 According to sources in the district commercial tax department, no less than 2,700 airconditioners were sold in Gaya town in the financial year 2016-17. “There is no corresponding increase in the power company's revenue, which means that most of the ACs were using pilfered electricity,” said a source in India Power.
 
 According to the company officials, there has been a qualitative change in power supply during the last three years after they took over power distribution in June 2014. “But the mentality of people is yet to change,” said an official.
 
 
