NEW DELHI: Where do   get funds from to carry out massacres like the one in Sukma that killed 25   men? The Centre has identified illegal mining, poppy cultivation, extortion among the activities funding the Maoists and on May 8, the government, after consultation with stakeholders, is expected to come up with ways to choke their funding. The Centre has identified and is studying 3.72 lakh cases of illegal mining reported from three states over the last few years.
 
  The ministry is also looking at theft of explosive as a concern to address the problem of Left Wing Extremism .
  
  According to officials, home minister   has directed the top officials to ensure strict vigil along the International Border, which is guarded by the  . In the Naxal-affected states, the home minister has been told that the forces were continuing their operations against the ultras in areas like Sukma, where 25 CRPF personnel were killed on April 24 All this is part of the exercise the ministry has undertaken to look into lapses that led to the Sukma attack and make “recommendations”. A review meeting on May 8, presided over by Union home minister Rajnath Singh is expected to discuss this issue in detail.
  
  “Pilferage of explosives often leads to blasts and subsequent deaths of CRPF personnel and civilians. States are being asked to implement the guidelines of the Petroleum And Explosives Safety Organisation, department formed to control and administer the usage of explosives, properly,” an official at the ministry said. Areas in Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand and some parts of Telangana, where illegal poppy is grown and thus money is raised via the drug network, are also under the scanner of the government.
  
  One commando was killed and 18 others were injured when an IED exploded at Gadchiroli district in Maharashtra on Wednesday night. The ministry has already directed the security forces engaged in anti-Naxal operations to strictly adhere to the standard operating procedures to foil Maoists attempts to attack them.
  
  “The Centre is very keen on breaking the backbone of the Maoists. Choking their fund supply would force them to surrender and bring down the number of their activities,” an official said.
