With hits like 
  and 
  to their credit, the   — Manmeet Singh and Harmeet Singh — seem to be on an adrenaline rush. During their recent visit to Bengaluru, we caught up with them talking about their struggle in the   industry, their success story and their love for this city. Excerpts:

 
 
 
 While their struggle in the industry has been a long one, Meet Bros had a taste of success when their track 
  became an instant success. “Life changed 360 degrees for us after this song. Before that we didn’t have a name, it was like ‘
 ’. We had tried a lot to break into the industry, but somehow nothing clicked. It was only in 2014, after this track did well, that we became an established name in the industry,” say the siblings.
 
 
 
 
 On being asked why they shifted from acting to music, they say, “We were always into music. We started when there were no music schools. We were acting and producing music at the same time. It’s not like we left acting and then took to music. We always used to multi-task, but it wasn’t until our recent hits that we became a brand and were known as music composers.” You need to have blockbusters to survive in the music industry and we realized that after our 15 years of struggle, they add. “Our colleagues have had better luck. We had a few hits and some super hit tracks to our credit, but once 
  became a blockbuster, we received instant recognition. We understood that in order to survive in the industry, you need to have a blockbuster in your kitty. In a way, our 15 years of struggle has helped us,” add Harmeet.
 
 
 
 
 The music composing duo were all praises for Honey Singh when asked, who among their contemporaries they feel produces good music. “Honey Singh has been revolutionary and path-breaking. The kind of music he produces, not everyone can do that. Honey Singh happens to be one of our most memorable collaborations till date,” they said. “Pritam too, can produce any sort of music, whether it is a love song or a fast dance number. He is very good at what he does,” they added.
 
 
 
 
 The Meet Bros have a soft corner for 
  city. “Bengaluru has a very corporate feel to it, and we feel that it is a very organized city. We love being here and enjoy the nightlife here. The people here are so warm and nice that that it makes our stay very interesting every single time,” they say, adding that whenever they are in Bengaluru, they enjoy their share of South Indian food, including dosa.
 
 Sandra.Fernandes@timesgroup.com
 
