HYDERABAD: With the aim of killing two birds with a stone, the Telangana government has decided to do away with the 2% additional tax being levied on the second vehicle registered on an individual's name, and, instead, deter people from buying diesel vehicles by imposing an additional 1% on registration of such vehicles.

 Sources said the law department has cleared the proposals and a   to amend the relevant law will be tabled in the winter session of the  . It was decided to do away with the 2% additional tax on the second vehicle as the procedure was found to be too cumbersome for the transport department and the revenue generated through this being a pittance. Since 2008, those buying a vehicle (costing less that `10 lakh) were being levied 12% tax and when a second new vehicle is being bought, the tax rises to 14%. The then   government had taken this decision to discourage citizens from buying new vehicles on the grounds of increasing vehicular pollution and traffic congestion in the city.
 
 “The state government has taken in principle the decision on removing the additional two per cent tax for second vehicles. And, tax on all new diesel vehicles will be increased by one per cent. The government has taken this decision considering all the issues arising out of the two per cent additional tax on second vehicles,“ transport, roads and buildings (TR&B) department commissioner Sunil Sharma told TOI.
 
 According to sources, the proposal has been accepted by chief minister  . But the new tax system requires cabinet nod and amendment to the Telangana Motor Vehicle Taxa tion Act. The amendment is expected to be presented in the Assembly during its winter session, official sources said.
 
 “The two per cent additional tax is leading to problems due to various reasons. There were several instances where the vehicle owner's name and that of the father are the same and addresses different. The owners are picking up argument with officials claiming that they do not own a vehicle prior to the purchase of the new one. In some cases, people claim that they have sold their first vehicle and that those who purchased their vehicle have not transferred it on to their name,“ joint transport commissioner   said.
 
 The transport department earns about `2,700 crore annually from all taxes and services. Of this, the revenue from the second vehicle registration was a mere Rs 2 crore to `3 crore. Therefore, it was decided to do away with that and instead, slap an additional one per cent tax on new diesel vehicles that are registered. Of the 2,500 vehicles regis tered across the state every day , nearly 1,000 run on diesel.As of now, the transport department is collecting 12% tax on diesel vehicles costing up to `10 lakh and 14% tax on vehicles costing over `10 lakh. If the tax is increased by one per cent, then it will become 13% for vehicles costing less than `10 lakh and 15% for those above.
 
 “As per our estimates, increasing the tax on diesel by one per cent will fetch the department additional `200 crore annually ,“ an official said
 
