CHENNAI: Six months after the Tamil Nadu government raised the penalty for illegal  , Greater Chennai Corporation has made no remarkable progress in terms of fixing the issue that has for long crippled the city’s   network.

 Last week, as the city received copious rain, the problem was out on display with the storm water drains carrying sewage. Commuters had to drive through overflowing   on Whites Road,   and Rukmini Lakshmipathy Salai.
 
 Rebukes from the Madras high court have not helped as the corporation and Chennai MetroWater Supply and Sewage Board continue to leave the increasing number of sewage outlets unchecked.
 
 A Narayanan, on whose petition the high court constituted a special committee outlining a 12-point agenda including plugging illegal sewage outlets, said the government’s penal provision was toothless. “The court pushed for an amendment, so they (government) introduced one. But there is no fear among violators. And when the deterrent mechanism is not strong, nobody will budge. The law only remains on paper,” he said.
 
 According to corporation officials, they have assessed approximately 40,000 locations for illegal connections, especially in Mogappair.
 
 However, details about violators and fines imposed on them are sketchy as the corporation has not hosted the information on a public platform. Besides, the administration is notorious for its resistance to share data with news outlets. “One case against a business establishment where a fine amount of more than Rs 1 lakh has been imposed, is being pursued,” said an official, without elaborating on the details.
 
 In a recent status report filed before the high court, the managing director of Metrowater had submitted that 8,614 connections were identified and plugged. Crucially, the report stated that many of the building owners were attempting to “reconnect the sewer in the storm water drains again.”
 
 Narayanan claimed that a “blame game” between corporation and metrowater senior officials was derailing attempts to fix the issue.
 
 His implication may not be far-fetched as TOI found out interacting with sources from both agencies. While corporation officials suggested that “too many inter-departmental coordination issues” crop up, metrowater sources indicated that the local body does not bother following up on cases.
 
 “Metrowater cannot impose fines. We can only slap notice and disconnect legal connections,” the source said. But the corporation is empowered to take strict action under the Public Health Act. The local body’s hesitation to adopt stringent penal techniques to tackle the problem is inexplicable, the source said.
 
