NEW DELHI: Unable to take the ignominy of having his marriage proposal turned down, a 22-year-old youth entered the house of the woman he was pursuing late on Thursday night and shot her in south Delhi’s  . Police, after arresting the youth on Friday, registered a case of attempt to murder but changed it into a murder case after the woman succumbed to her gunshot wounds later that day.

 The murdered woman, Sonam, was employed by a beauty salon in Saket and it was here that Manoj, a resident of   first saw her. He began following her and even sending text messages on her phone. Family members said that Sonam initially replied to his messages out of courtesy, but when told later that he was involved in a gambling racket, had stopped communicating with him.
 
 A few days ago, Manoj phoned Sonam’s employer and asked her to convey to the woman a message about his willingness to marry her. The deceased woman’s brother, Amit, said on Saturday, “My sister turned the proposal down. On hearing this, Manoj threatened to teach her a lesson. Sonam’s employer knew a policeman, who called up Manoj and warned him not to harass my sister.”
 
 Around midnight on Thursday, Manoj reached Sonam’s house with two friends and called out to her. She was sleeping on a cot outside the house along with one of the parents. As soon as she woke up, the youths opened fire at her. Hearing the gunshots, other family members also woke up but were threatened against doing anything. 
 
 “The men stood there with the gun pointed at us and left only after Sonam had stopped moving,” said Poonam, Sonam’s friend and eyewitness.
 
 Sonam died in   on Friday evening. “We were informed about the incident from the hospital,” said  , additional deputy commissioner of police (south). 
 
 A team of investigators from the   station nabbed Manoj within five hours of the crime. The cops said they had identified the two other youths involved in the act and raids were being carried out to track them. Initially, an FIR under Section 307 (attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code was registered. Section 302 (murder) was added upon her death.
 
 Most of Sonam’s family members had gone to attend a wedding in their village in Ferozabad, and have now been informed about the tragedy. Her father is an employee of a solid waste management company.
 
 
