CHENNAI: Actor and Congress national spokesperson Khushbu Sundar quit   on Tuesday, saying the platform was addictive. 

 The actor, who had close to a million followers when she tweeted her decision to go off Twitter “4 sumtime”, had a few words of advice for her followers - to use the platform to build “this nation and not 2 divide”.
 
 The actor posted a series of tweets on Tuesday, announcing and explaining her decision.
 
 “Ok friends..I have decided 2 go off Twitter 4 sumtime..want 2 do start reading again..This platform is like addiction..promise 3 come back soon,” she tweeted, and thanked her followers for their “love, respect and care”.
 
 In her last tweet, she posted, “Bye friends..happy twèeting..use this platform to build this nation and not 2 divide..keep hate n vengeance out..spread love,joy n peace”.
 
 Around two months ago, Khushbu was involved in a war of words on Twitter with BJP   unit president Tamilisai Soundararajan over actor Rajinikanth’s entry into politics and the   trying to woo him.
 
 In the past, Khushbu has also hit out against Twitter users for posting indecent tweets.
 
 The actor-politician told TOI, “My reason for leaving Twitter is very simple. I found I was getting a little addicted to it. I'd wake up morning and check my phone. I don’t want to get addicted to it.”
 
 Asked if her decision to leave the popular   platform had anything to do with Twitter trolls or her recent cyber-spat with the BJP leader, she denied it. “No. I’m the last person to let any of those things affect me,” she said.
 
 “I’m a voracious reader, because of Twitter I stopped reading. In between my shots, I’m on the phone. I realised I can do something else,” she said. 
 
 She is not on Facebook, and will only remain on Instagram, but she considers the latter a “personal space”. 
 
 Asked if this will affect her ability to reach out to people as a party spokesperson, she said, “I can always find ways to communicate with people. Political parties have grown from strength to strength even without social media,” she added.
 
 
