NEW DELHI: Daughters of billionaire   are banking on startups to grow their money rather than following their father’s footsteps on mint street. They will invest $150 million, or about Rs 965 crore, to incubate and fund new businesses.
 
  The Three Sisters, the family office that manages family wealth of the banking billionaire, has identified education, tourism, family entertainment centres, and agri-logistics among sectors where the family’s personal wealth will be deployed.   derives its name from a reference to Kapoor’s three daughters — Radha, Raakhe and Roshini.
  
  “We are not really passive investors,” said Radha Kapoor Khanna, promoter of The Three Sisters. “Our model has been to partner with good management teams at a concept stage and build businesses for the long term,” she said.
  
  The family office has already invested $100 million in a variety of ventures since its inception nine years ago. It owns the master franchisee rights for Spanish dry cleaning chain   in India, a design school in partnership with New York’s Parsons School of Design, a school of communications started in alliance with advertising giant WPP, a business magazine, and a  .
  
   , a company that runs co-working spaces and was incubated within the family office, recently received an investment of $20 million from Menlo Park-based venture capital investor Sequoia Capital.
  
 Awfis was started by The Three Sisters in partnership with Amit Ramani, a professional turned entrepreneur, two years ago. Sequoia’s investment values Awfis at close to $80 million, according to people aware, resulting in a four-fold increase in the value of the Kapoor family’s initial investment, after accounting for dilution in their holdings, according to estimates compiled by ET.
  
  The family office, an investment model first conceptualised in the 19th century by the Rockefeller family, amongst the wealthiest and most powerful business families in America, has become popular as a tool for efficient allocation and protection of wealth by the ultra-rich. “We are seeing the family office concept becoming more popular in a lot of countries where traditionally business has been family-owned, such as in India,” said Fakhri Ahmadov, managing director at London-based family office advisor Ahmadoff & Company.
  
  “There are multiple reasons for this, such as the need to operate compliantly under ever-increasing complex regulations for private wealth and for a variety of other objectives to be met such as consolidating businesses under one umbrella, to initiate succession planning professionally and to identify power and income beneficiaries,” Ahmadov said.
  
  Wealthy business owners in India such as Wipro’s Azim Premji, Infosys founder NR Narayana Murthy, the Sundaram family, founders of the TVS Group,  , and the Patni Brothers are amongst those who have set up family offices to grow and protect their wealth and also for purposes of philanthropy.
  
  The Three Sisters employs 75 people, with a combination of investment and operating expertise to incubate new ideas and roll out business ventures. It is also allocating funds to promote entrepreneurship through a startup incubator that will set aside up to $5 million to back ideas in the education sector. 
