MAPUSA: Four years after   founder-editor Tarun   was arrested in an alleged sexual assault case, a local court in Goa on Thursday charged him with   of a junior colleague in a five-star hotel at Bambolim in November 2013. The district and additional sessions court at Mapusa also charged Tejpal with other sections that include wrongful confinement, outraging modesty and assaulting or using criminal force on a woman.

 After the charge was framed against him, the Tehelka founder-editor pleaded not guilty, paving the way for trial of the case.
 
  The court has fixed the next date of hearing for November 21.
 
 Earlier this month, Tejpal had, through a criminal revision application, challenged the September 7 order of the additional district and sessions court to frame charges on September 28.
 
 The high court of Bombay at Goa had declined to stay framing of charge but said the trial would not begin till disposal of the application and asked the state to reply on Tejpal’s plea on November 1. The Supreme Court in 2014 had directed that the trial be expedited.
 
 Tejpal became the first high-profile personality in the country to be arrested under the new anti-rape law, which was notified post the Nirbhaya incident.
 
 Earlier, Tejpal’s lawyer Rajiv Gomes contended before the trial court that it would be inappropriate to go ahead with the framing of charge till the disposal of the revision application before the high court.
 
 “I’d contended before the trial court that the explanation of the charges to the accused should be deferred because we are confident that there is no case with the prosecution and Tarun Tejpal will be discharged of the charges,” Gomes told reporters.
 
 Special public prosecutor Francisco Tavora, along with assistant public prosecutor Cyndiana Gomes, vehemently objected to the defence submission stating that the high court had refused to stay framing of charge.
 
 After hearing both the parties, judge Vijaya Pol said since the high court had not stayed framing of charge against Tejpal, why should her court on its own stay it.
 
 “The defence was trying to mislead the court. There is enough evidence against Tejpal and the court has accepted our contention before framing the charge,” Tavora said after the court proceedings.
 
 Gomes said they were “disappointed with the order of the trial court”. “We are hopeful that we will get relief from the high court. The case of prosecution is false and fabricated and we are going to stick to that till the end. There is a political vendetta,” he said.
 
 Two months ago, following an application from Tejpal, the court passed an order restraining media from reporting the proceedings of the case.
 
 “In view of the sensitive nature of offences, the charges levelled against Tejpal were not read out in the open court,” Tavora said.
 
 He expressed confidence that the high court would allow the trial to begin and said there are 150 witnesses listed in the chargesheet.
 
 On November 22, 2013, Goa police lodged suo motu FIR against Tejpal for allegedly raping his junior colleague on November 7 and 8, 2013, in an elevator of a five-star hotel during an event organised by Tehelka.
 
 A Goa police team was sent to Delhi by the state government to question Tejpal and he was arrested on November 30, 2013, after his anticipatory bail was rejected by a local court in Goa.
 
 At that time, too, Tejpal had alleged political vendetta against him and his counsel had alleged that the case was fabricated. 
 
