NAGPUR: Can a Hindu couple’s marriage performed without customary ceremonies and rituals be termed legal? The   of   said a clear ‘no’ while granting a divorce to city based man.

 While quashing a Nagpur Family Court’s verdict of April 1, 2015, that had asked the man to resume cohabitation with the woman, the court ruled that unless performed with proper customary ceremonies and rituals, a marriage could not be approved under the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955.
 
 “Unless the marriage is celebrated or performed with proper ceremonies and in due form, it can’t be said to have been solemnized. Thus, ceremonies as claimed by the wife were not prescribed by law or approved by custom. Therefore, the marriage doesn’t come within the purview of Section 7 of the Hindu Marriage Act,” a division bench comprising justice   and Justice   held.
 
 “As per Hindu Marriage Act’s provisions, the marriage must be performed as per the ceremonies, rites and rituals recognized by either of the parties. Even importance is given to ‘Saptapadi’ in Hindu marriage. Admittedly, no such ceremonies were performed,” the judges added.
 
 The Maharashtrian Brahmin woman, who was earlier divorced and had two kids, claimed she and the Marwari man had entered into a wedlock on April 16, 2012. Theirs was a love marriage that was performed inside a flat after the man put a Mangalsutra around her neck and also applied vermilion on her forehead. Thereafter, the couple began physical relations.
 
 However, when man’s engagement was fixed, the woman lodged a rape complaint against him and also filed a case in family court that was allowed. The petitioner challenged it in HC, citing Section 7 of the Hindu Marriage Act, that states ceremonies like ‘Saptapadi’ or ‘Phere’ are must for marriage.
 
 The judges observed that the woman being a divorcee and having kids, was certainly aware of the customs and rituals of Hindu marriage. “She was not a young girl unaware of sanctity of marriage. It’s indigestible that at 36 years, she wasn’t aware of the rites, rituals and ceremonies of marriage. She didn’t succeed in proving the marriage as per Brahmin or Marwari community. If a marriage is alleged to have been performed as per modified form of Shastric Hindu Law, it must be pleaded and proved as a custom.” 
 
 They clarified that the woman had failed to prove she was legally wedded wife of petitioner as no one attended it nor was it celebrated. “There was no cohabitation between them and they were never recognized as husband and wife by the society. Even there was no live-in relationship between them and they never stayed under the same roof,” the court said. 
 
