BAREILLY: A 14-year-old rape survivor had to give birth to a baby boy in October last year. Throughout her pregnancy, the girl and her family made several attempts at getting the pregnancy terminated but were refused permission by the courts. On Wednesday, the girl met with the   magistrate here and sought financial aid to raise the child.
 
  The girl along with her seven-month-old child visited the collectorate to demand compensation from the district administration. “After I was denied permission to abort the fetus and gave birth to the child, the administration had promised to give me financial help. It has been over seven months but I am yet to receive any help. Battling social stigma and health issues, I am raising my child but I am uncertain about the future due to financial problems,” she told TOI.
  
  The girl was employed as a cook at the house of one Asif Khan. He allegedly raped her on the pretext of marriage.   is now out on bail. Her family learnt about the rape late and lodged an FIR on June 7, 2016. Her medical report stated that she was 19 weeks and six days pregnantat that time. The Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act did not allow her to terminate her advanced pregnancy. Since then, the family had campaigned relentlessly to abort the fetus but failed. The girl had then asked who would raise the child if she delivered it.
  
  The rape survivor went on to deliver the baby in an ambulance in October last year on her way to the district hospital. After the birth of the child, the girl decided to bring him up despite everything.
  
  “I want the court to punish Khan for the crime he has done. As the matter is sub judice, I need financial aid to fight the case well and also to take care of the baby,” the teenager said. She has been living with her parents and younger siblings in   village under   police station of  .
  
  “The villagers want me to marry Khan to save him from punishment. But my father has made it clear that we will only follow the court’s orders. My father who is a daily wage earner and the sole breadwinner in the family already has nine mouths to feed,” the survivor said.
  
  “People had offered me money to give away my boy for adoption and most of them could have given him a better future but I could not part with my baby. Though I was initially not prepared for motherhood, the circumstances have taught me how to tend to my baby. If he takes ill, I stay awake all night to ensure that he is all right,” the teenager added.
  
  District magistrate Pinky Jowel said, “I will go through the rules and will try to give all possible help to the girl.”
