: My wife and I have been married for 20 years and have two children. We have a great lifestyle, and we love each other a lot. But ever since we have got married, I am not happy sexually, and in the last few years she is not even willing to kiss me, leave alone sex. I feel like having   every day but my wife refuses, so I end up masturbating. Sometimes when I get really upset, she has sex with me like she's doing a favour to me. I have even suggested consulting a doctor but that makes her angry. Her family has also talked to her, but nothing seems to change her mind. She never liked sex before and now she doesn't like her body, as we both are 45 years and above.

 Now I feel like leaving her, and spending rest of my life with someone who can love me sexually too. I am so confused, what should I do?
 
 
 : This is a common faced dilemma in today's world. You need to understand that for a woman to enjoy sex, she needs to be made comfortable and loved. However at times there are cases where in spite of all this, they may just not have the urge to have sex, as is in your case. 
 
 Firstly, please get a medical check up done to ensure that there is no hormonal imbalance like hypothyroidism, or if she is approaching menopause. Once these are out of the way, the leading cause of hypoactive sexual disorder is depression, stress or anxiety. Some ladies also have a history of traumatic sexual incidents in the past, which prevents them from enjoying sex in the present. However all this would be better sorted out by a qualified psychiatrist/ psychologist/sex therapist. 
 
 Before you take a step, you first need to be sure of whether you love her, and what all is at stake. Other than that, legally speaking, denial of sex in a marriage without any medical or valid reason is a ground for divorce/separation.
 
 The choice is never too easy at this stage of life, but if you don’t act upon it now...the frustration will be unbearable.
 Don’t be impulsive. Take some time, and opinion from a professional, analyse the situation, and then take a decision. 
 Life is too short to waste in regret….enjoy it. 
 
 
 
 
 Want expert advice for your relationship? Send us an email at expertadvice.toi@gmail.com
 
