Nagpur: The only Indian  , who has run the 246km Spartathlon in Greece in October 2016, is continuing on his journey to put India on the Global Ultra-running map.   along with two other Indian ultra-runners, Arvind Kumar and Suri Paji Khalsa participated in one of the biggest ultra-marathons in Asia, ‘The Vibram Hong Kong 100km Ultra trail race’ which was flagged off on January 14 at 8am Hong Kong time, and has a cut-off time of 30 hours. Kieren D’Souza completed the race in time of 13 hours and ranked 80th among the 1993 runners who started the race. The 2017 Race winner Yanqiao Yun of China, finished the race in 9 hours 35 minutes.

 Speaking of his victory, father Peter D’Souza said, “I feel extremely proud as a parent about his win. Motivation from my side came in quite later when I realized how dedicated he was. His win is solely his hard work.”
 
 The Hong Kong 100km trail race which started from Pak Tam Chung on the east side of Hong Kong's New Territories, winds its way west along coastal paths, across beaches, through ancient villages, over hills and through valleys before finishing after the descent of Tai Mo Shan, Hong Kong's highest peak (at 957m). Along this mountain trail, runners end up climbing up over 4,500m. The 7th edition of the race received over 5000 applications out of which only 1993 runners started the race. This race had the maximum participation from Asian ultra-runners.
 
 For the Spartathlon which is more of a road race, he trained in Bangalore and Faridabad, where he got ‘free heat and humidity’ conditioning him well enough for the race. The Hong Kong race being a mountain one, Kieren said, “I spent most of the time training in the beautiful hills of Manali, where the hills are more treacherous than what I expected in Hong Kong.”
 
 Peter and Keiren are in talks with Athletics Federation of India (AFI), to ask them to become a member of the ‘International Association of Ultrarunner’ (IAU). “Without this, Kieren won’t be able to participate in the 24 Hour World Championship to be held at Belfast, Ireland in July 2017,” shares Peter.
 
 
