AURANGABAD: After receiving an assurance from the  , the Aurangabad Bench of the Bombay High Court recently disposed of a petition challenging the questionable way in which the elections to the   (INC) were held in July 2016. 

 The petitioners termed the elections as bad and void in law. High court bench comprising Justices, TV Nalawade and Sangitrao S Patil, while disposing of the petition, expected the ministry to take a decision involving the row within six months.
 
 Elected member of the  , Kisan   of Aurangabad and Ramling Basling Mali, the MNC president and an INC member from Mumbai had approached the high court in 2016, through senior counsel VD Hon and lawyer AV Hon, disputing the elections held for the posts of president, vice president and executive committee members in the 91st General Body Meeting of the INC held on July 1, 2016.
 
 The petitioners claimed that the election was conducted without free and fair means i.e. mandatory disclosure, sharing of information of voters as well as method of election. 
 
 According to them, the aspirant and voters were kept in the dark. “The Secretary of INC called selected members, who are in favour of president, vice president and they were chosen my a show of hands. Objections were raised by the petitioners and some other members, who were present in GBM, but all in vain, as selectiveness was the only criteria to call INC members and conduct election was only motive of the GBM,” stated the petition. If further added, “The Secretary and some who were in favour of election have not followed any due process of law.” 
 
 Accordingly, the secretary declared T Dileepkumar as president and Asha Sharma as vice president and other 7 as executive committee members. This election was however disputed as the notice for calling GBM was not dispatched by secretary to all INC Members, it was dispatched to only selective INC members those who are in favour of the above mentioned appointees as per the convenience of the then president and vice-president, elaborated the petition.
 
 The petition also stated that the returning officer for the election was appointed by president, who is the secretary of the council and is not an independent and impartial individual. 
 
 They pointed out to the court that they had made a detailed representation to the ministry of health and family welfare raising a grievance in accordance with the provisions of Section 5(2) of INC Act regarding elections conducted by the respondents. 
 
 “The Union government, however, failed to exercise the jurisdiction under the same section, as the petitioner has been served with a communication dated 18.9.2016 whereby the grievance petition raised by the petitioner is forwarded to the Indian Nursing Council for further appropriate action and the petitioner is also communicated that the further correspondence is to be made by approaching the Indian Nursing Council directly,” stated the petition.
 
 When the matter came up for hearing SB Deshpande, the assistant solicitor general, admitted that it was due to some mistake that the ministry has directed the petitioners to approach the INC, though its representation was pending with the ministry. The ASG also admitted that “the dispute is not yet decided as the INC has not supplied necessary information / record.” He also assured that the ministry will decide the dispute in accordance with the provisions of law and rules. 
 
 While disposing of the petition on February 16, the high court said “respondent no. 1 (ministry) is expected to communicate the date of hearing in the dispute to the petitioners as well as the concerned respondents” and also that the “decision by the ministry is expected within a period of six months from today (February 16).” 
 
