MUMBAI: Several trees marked for transplantation along the   have had their branches cut indiscriminately, a panel appointed by the high court to supervise the process of cutting and transplantation has said in its report.

 According to the report, indiscriminate cutting was done in areas such as Cuffe Parade, Churchgate, Hutatma Chowk, Girgaum, Kalbadevi, Siddhivinayak station, Dadar, Shitladevi temple, Sahar, MIDC and Seepz.
 
 The panel has highlighted how some trees were unnecessarily marked for cutting when they were not obstructing construction and how trees not marked in the original plan for cutting were also being cut. 
 
 It also mentions how, at some station sites, efforts were being made to retain trees that were marked for cutting/transplantation.
 
 The one-member junior committee as it is called – the senior panel has two sitting judges on it -- has been carrying out inspection of station sites and recently submitted its report in relation to its second visit. It first conducted visits from May 24 to June 1 and again from June 21 onwards. It also visited Juhu and Aarey colony, where the trees have been transplanted.
 
 “The transplantation part, if considered in totality in all of the stations, it appears that the authorities are not taking proper care while cutting the branches of the trees… There are many trees for transplantation (whose) branches are indiscriminately cut but because of rainy season there are (sic) sprouting of leaves,” states the report.
 
 For example, at Cuffe Parade station, branches of tree no. 54 were found indiscriminately cut and the tree was without any leaves, while tree no. 182 marked for transplantation seemed to be decayed. At Churchgate, it found trees marked for transplantation with branches disproportionately cut. Tree no. 29, states the report, is marked for transplantation but is wrongly coloured as green, which is marked for retention.
 
 At Kalbadevi, Mumbai Metro Rail Corporation Ltd (MMRCL) officials complained that BMC staff had indiscriminately cut the branches of a tree marked for transplantation and they had provided support so that the tree stands. MMRCL officials admitted a tree marked for transplantation was already dead on account of fungal infection.
 
 At Worli station, one of the petitioners pointed out that six trees marked for transplantation were being cut. MMRCL officials said the trees had grown in such a terrain that it was difficult to transplant them.
 
 The report highlights the concerns of the petitioners that three trees within the boundaries of the National Insurance building at Churchgate, which were marked for transplantation, have been cut. It also takes note of their appeal to save a big banyan tree which they said was nearly 100 years old.
 
 At Girgaum station, ten of 11 trees have been cut but no tree has been transplanted. MMRCL officials said they were trying to save a tree here.
 
 At Mahalaxmi, a tree marked to be retained in the original plan was proposed to be cut as it fell in the piling line, the report has said. Similar was the case at the Science Museum station where 13 trees marked to be retained were now proposed to be cut. At Dadar, there are eight trees not originally planned to be cut but which now face the axe.
 
 At Siddhivinayak temple, ten trees outside the station box were marked for cutting simply to make way for heavy machinery. Local citizens complained that MMRCL had told them these trees were being cut for an allied building.
 
 However, the report states that transplantation at Juhu, Aarey Colony, Government Colony (Bandra) and MIDC station has been proper. “The petitioners have no objection about the manner of transplantation,” the report points out.
 
 On complaints from citizens, the committee has suggested they approach the competent authority. The report states that in the initial phase of transplantation, there were a few lacunae, but these have been corrected by the authorities. “The authorities are taking proper care while planting fresh trees,” the report has said.
 
 
