NEW DELHI: The special court that discharged the Maran brothers in the   erred in not piercing the corporate veil and on other aspects, the central agencies that probed corruption allegations said in applications challenging the order.
 
  The   court also applied different yardsticks while ruling in favour of former telecom minister   and blaming junior officials at the telecom department for delaying approvals to Aircel’s licence requests before the company’s then promoters agreed to sell their stake to  , the CBI and the   said in their appeals.
  
  ET has seen a copy of their appeals. The Delhi High Court is scheduled to hear the appeals later this week. In May, the high court had sought responses from the Maran brothers and other co-accused to the appeals.
  
  The CBI court in February this year discharged all the accused, including Dayanidhi Maran and his businessman brother Kalanithi, saying that there was no prima facie case warranting framing of charges against them based on the materials placed before it. On a related money-laundering case that the ED was probing, the court said there was no ground to proceed on the matter after it discharged the accused in the case filed by the CBI.
  
  In its appeal, CBI said the CBI court erred in holding a "roving" inquiry and evaluating the "probative value" of the materials which, the agency argued, cannot be gone into at the stage of framing of charges.
  
  The appeal said Dayanidhi Maran "deliberately" raised "vague, specious and frivolous" clarifications with the "dishonest intention" to cause a delay to the licence applications of C Sivasankaran’s Siva Group, which owned Aircel. This, the agency has averred, to "constrict the business environment" of Sivasankaran and to compel him to sell his company to  , controlled by Malaysian businessman T Ananda Krishnan.
  
  According to the agency, while the CBI court "castigated" telecom department officials for causing a 15-day delay in processing applications, it did not take stock of much longer delays (95 days) caused at the level of the then minister, Dayanidhi Maran. Once the Aircel-Maxis deal was over, licence and other clearances that had been pending for long had been acceded to, CBI’s appeal read.
  
  Submitting that the Maran brothers have "common economic interests", the agencies alleged that an illegal gratification of Rs 742.58 crore was paid " in the garb of  " to  's companies.
  
  The CBI also said the court had ignored the statements of Nripendra Misra, the then telecom secretary, on various aspects of the case. 
