NAGPUR: “Watching members of Maharashtra State Commission for Women (MSCW) tirelessly make me wonder how well can a woman be empowered if we just think of her as a human being,” said mayor   on Tuesday.

 Addressing an orientation workshop on sexual harassment at workplaces organized jointly by MSCW, People United against Sexual Harassment (PUSH) Forum and department of women and child development at Dr Vasantrao Deshpande Hall, Jichkar took a dig at the men present in the audience, saying, “Brothers, take care of women in your offices in the way you do it in your family. A woman will be more productive in her work when her co-workers are supportive.” 
 
 Noticing the significantly fewer number of men present in the audience, Jichkar said, “The subject is important to them since they have an important role to play. I was expecting more men to be present.” The meet was attended by government employees.
 
 The training session focused on orienting employees in government offices to the modalities of an internal complaints committee (ICC) to redress the cases of sexual harassment at workplace. These included number of members in the committee, how to form it and solve harassment cases in a stipulated time.
 
 As per the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013, all the offices, whether government or private with more than 10 women employees, have to form an ICC. A local complaints committee (LCC) led by the district collector has been constituted in all the districts to redress harassment cases in the office having less than 10 women employees.
 
 The Supreme Court had directed the central government in 1997 to draw guidelines to prevent harassment of women in office after Rajasthan government employee   was raped by men in her community. The rules came to be known as ‘Vishaka Guidelines’ which were later superseded by an Act. 
 
 Divisional commissioner Anoop Kumar said that the subject is important as far as the nation is concerned and added that the ‘Vishaka Guidelines’ were not implemented in the way it was intended to be which prompted the government to draft a Bill which became an Act in 2013.
 
 President of MSCW Vijaya Rahatkar said that the number of complaints received has increased because more women have started working.
 
 Present at the inaugural function of the workshop were district collector Sachin Kurve, special inspector general of police, Nagpur range, Pratap Patankar and member Neeta Thakkar.
 
 President of Maharashtra State Commission for Women (MSCW) Vijaya Rahatkar informed in detail about the training sessions which are being organized.
 
 
