NEW  : Wrong   is the most common reason for people to complain about  , followed by lack of care, no treatment and forced discharge, a study by   forensic department has revealed.

 The study involves interviews of families of 20 patients who died due to alleged negligence. While 13 cases involved private hospitals, seven were from government ones in and around south Delhi.
 
 Dr Abhishek  , who led the study, told TOI that allegations were found to be more common in age groups of children and adolescent (50%) with a declining trend with increase in age. “The super-specialty hospitals are accused of negligence in 65% cases,” he added.
 
 The allegation against the hospitals, both private and government, is in the ratio of 1.8:1, Yadav said. “Wrong treatment/procedure was the main reason (45%),” he added.
 
 Recently, Delhi   Council deregistered two orthopaedic surgeons for six months for operating the wrong leg of a 24-year-old man who was admitted at Fortis Hospital in Shalimar Bagh after fracturing his right foot.
 
 Dr Sudhir Gupta, professor and head of forensic sciences department, AIIMS, said incidence of alleged negligence has gone up significantly over the past few years. “People are more aware about their rights. Also, recent court rulings in favour of the complainants where there is proven case of negligence has encouraged others to take up their grievances,” he said.
 
 AIIMS has recommended that doctors working in emergency and ICUs should be trained in declaring death of the patient to the relatives or a counsellor may be appointed for it. 
 
 Doctors said lack of communication between the doctors and patient is a major cause of discontent. “Doctors should refrain from making vague promises of complete recovery and should always explain the complication or unforeseen danger associated with the treatment procedure,” said a doctor at the institute.
 
 Dr Girish Tyagi, registrar of Delhi Medical Council, said they get 20-30 complaints of negligence every month. “The number has gone up significantly in the past few years,” he said.
 
 As per a report published in British Medical Journal, medical error is the third leading cause of death in the US, accounting for 2.5 lakh deaths every year. But no such data is available in India. Patients often allege that doctors try to save each other even when the case is referred to medical boards for investigation. 
 
 
