BHOPAL: District administration has pulled all stops to ensure that daily commuters are not inconvenienced as the auto-rickshaw drivers go on an indefinite strike from Tuesday midnight demanding hike in fares and protesting hike in fitness fees and opposing illegally plying app-based cabs.

 Around 15,000 auto-rickshaws will go off roads and auto unions have also threatened to prevent cab operators from entering railway stations and ISBT.
 
 District administration has geared up to bail the passengers out of crisis by pressing more buses and mini buses. Additional District magistrate ( ) GP Mali said, “We have enhanced the city bus services and more magic vans have been deployed on the route to railway stations and bus stand during night hours, when the passengers and commuters have to solely depend on the autos.” However, he declined to state the number city buses deployed to meet the crisis. 
 
 The ADM said that usually the buses poly till 9.30 but effort is being made to let them ply even late night. 
 
 According to president of new   around 1.25 lakh Bhopalis depend on auto-rickshaws for travel in the city of 22 lakh. “And if we do not run from tomorrow, what will happen to them,” he said, adding, apart from daily passengers there are some school children and office goers too who are dependent on us.
 
 Reiterating his stand, Rajput said why only the autorickshaws have to suffer, and not the cabs, many of which are plying illegally. 
 
 On Tuesday, the auto-rickshaw drivers resolved to make their strike successful. “Hum raat 12bje se hadtal par hain”, screamed the microphones in many parts of the city. At both railway stations, the auto drivers were seen writing ‘Hadtal’ on their windscreens even as the passengers passed by carrying heavy luggage in the lookout for a transport.
 
 “People will be most affected between 12am and 8am when some of the IT-enabled cabs decline to provide service,” said Prashant Sethia, who works late hours in office, and depends on an auto-rickshaw from Arera colony to reach him to Kolar road every day.
 
 However, the worse affected would be the railway passengers, who would have to walk over the foot over bridge and come out of the station to catch taxis. “We will not allow the cabs to enter the premises of railway station,” said Rajput adding that the passengers, if at all they have to catch a taxi or a cab will have to walk out of the premises.
 
 The adamant attitude of the auto drivers will put many a railway passengers at both the stations to a lot of inconvenience as some of them may have to walk the entire foot over bridge to come over to the other side of the station, and move out of the premises to catch a conveyance.
 
 And if you thought that you can call the autos via app, then you are wrong. “Earlier the autos running via app were not part of protest, but now we have taken them into out fold. They will also remain off road from Wednesday,” said Rajput.
 
 Rahul Singh, a private cab driver, said, “My vehicle is financed, and If the auto-richskaw drivers try to damage it, I may have to suffer losses, therefore, before taking out my vehicle on Wednesday, I will think twice”.
 
