HYDERABAD: At a time when the Andhra Pradesh  , taking note of the 2014 advisory of the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE), has issued a circular urging all schools in the state to   over leather ones, as part of the uniform, many schools in Hyderabad are yet to take note of the advisory.

 As it turns out, while heads of many city schools are still unaware of the  , which encouraged schools to resort to the `ecofriendly'   --based on a representation from People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA)-a few others admitted that leather shoes are still part of their school uniform.
 
 “We are happy with the response from the AP school education department. However, we had submitted a similar representation to the Telangana school education department in 2015 after which the state   had issued circulars to the heads of all schools.This advisory, however, lacked clarity and did not issue any specific instructions and was hence not very strong,“ PETA India's early childhood education manager Puja Ma hajan said. “In addition to being both  , canvas shoes are relatively cheaper and require little maintenance. They are also recyclable and biodegradable making them environment-friendly,“ she added.
 
 The environmental benefits, however, seem to be lost on a few city schools.
 
 “Though we have not made it mandatory for parents to purchase leather shoes, a few still do citing the child's comfort level as the reason. We have found that a few students prefer leather shoes over the canvas ones. Canvas shoes, meanwhile, have been made mandatory for two days in a week, when students have to engage in sports activities,“ said K Anandavalli, head mistress of Matrusri DAV public school, in Miyapur.
 
 While most city schools insist that parents purchase two pairs of shoes, a few schools are found bucking the trend.
 
 “Most schools insist that parents buy two pairs of shoes, one canvas and the other leather, causing inconvenience to both parents and students.This is why we decided to recommend a single standard black shoe, fashioned out of any material, for sports and general purpose,“ said Varalakshmi M, principal of Jubilee Hills Public School.
 
 Maya Sukumaran, principal of Geethanjali public school, said no directive has reached her so far, while S Vandana, principal of Vigyan Vidyalaya in Nizampet, one of the very few schools in the city that recommends the use of only-canvas shoes, pointed to the benefits of the same. “We have been asking students to purchase canvas shoes for the past three years or so,“ said Vandana. Shailaja Gopinath, principal of Delhi Public School (DPS), Secunderabad, while refusing to comment on the material of shoes, worn by students, said “We do not prescribe leather shoes. However, the fact that CBSE and the AP government have both issued circulars urging schools to use eco-friendly materials is encouraging.“
 
 The Director of School Education, Telangana, could not be reached for a comment.
 
