Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) nominee for Gurdaspur Lok Sabha constituency Maj Gen Suresh Khajuria (retd) projects himself as a farmer’s son who believes that crop loan waiver is not a solution to farmers’ plight. Talking to TOI’s Yudhvir Rana, he says Gurdaspur has so far been represented by ‘outsiders’ but he will be with the voters round the clock.

 You are pitted against seasoned and influential politicians backed by established political parties. Being a new entrant in politics do you find yourself in a tight spot?
 
 Not at all, my competition is with no one but myself. Besides, being a local, my party is my strength. I think voters have the power to tell how a seasoned, wealthy, influential or even a rejected politician is. I am approaching voters saying that I’ll be with them 24X7, in all good and not-so-good times. This constituency has largely been represented by outsiders. The AAP is a young party and political parties need some time to mature. People have tolerated 120-year-old party for so long, let’s tolerate this emerging political party for at least a decade to witness the difference in governance and performance.
 
 How do you look at the circumstances which are leading to farmers’ suicides? 
 
 Our state has multiple farm-related problems. I am a farmer’s son and have witnessed drought in 1963 and in 1965. I know how it feels when someone sells his utensils to buy one meal a day. Complete loan waiver is not an answer to farmers’ predicament. We have to go into the genesis of the issue. I believe in an ancient Chinese axiom which says ‘Give a man a fish and you have fed him once, teach him how to fish and you have fed him for lifetime’. This region of Punjab has contributed maximum during the green revolution. Farmers are now sinking in debt trap. Governments announce loan waivers, they (farmers) again borrow loans. It’s a vicious circle. We have to make them self-reliant and no one is doing that.
 
 So far, how has your journey from a decorated soldier to a politician been? 
 
 Of course, I’m new to politics. I’m trying to learn its nuances and like my successful carrier in the Army, hoping to successfully sail through this too. I’ve finished my responsibilities and have all the time in this world for the people of Gurdaspur Lok Sabha constituency. Besides, a soldier speaks from heart and I speak to the people from heart. I promise my people only one thing, that I will be their voice in Delhi Darbar.
 
 What are the key issues of your constituency? 
 
 First and foremost issue is the lack of proper education infrastructure. When I was studying here, there were schools without roofs or benches. Ironically, they still exist, and there is not a single institute for higher education in the entire area. Textile mills have either closed down or shifted to neighbouring tax haven states, youth are in despair and frustrated for there are no job opportunities. There are various means to revive and rejuvenate the sluggish governance. I have a few things in mind but I can’t discuss them at this stage.
 
 Any new industry which you would want to bring to Gurdaspur?
 
 Tourism is one. We have abundance of unexploited natural treasure. Dunera has beautiful landscapes and tourists who go to Dalhousie can be attracted to lower hills, where we can develop water sports etc. But unfortunately, the traditional politicians have always neglected the area’s tourism potential and have remained busy making promises they never fulfil.
 
 
