KOLKATA: The city is all set to host the Horasis Asia Meet which many in corporate circle term the Asian version of the World Economic Forum Meet at Davos.

 The Kolkata meet will be the first meeting of Horasis in India. Horasis is a global visions community committed to enact visions for sustainable future. It has been founded by Frank Richter, the former director of World Economic Forum. Richter, who was in the city for BGBS, said they have decided to host the next Horasis Asia Meet in the city on November 26 and 27. The first edition of the Horasis Asia Meet was held in Bangkok on November 27 and 28 last year. Richter also said that India is a “good news” and West Bengal is a “very good news” for the Asian economy. “We want to be part of the growth story,” he added. 
 
 It may be noted that chief minister   was supposed to deliver a speech at a session at the Horasis Meet in Bangkok. However, the CM had to skip the event after the demonetisation announcement was made. The Horasis Asia Meet in the city will be organised by   in association with  , the leading business chamber of this region. Rajeev Singh, the director general of Indian Chamber of Commerce, said if everything goes well, then this Horasis meeting will be one of the biggest corporate events in Kolkata.
 
 Before Kolkata, three other Horasis meetings will be held in Portugal, Switzerland and the UK. While Horasis will host its global meet at Cascais in Portugal on May 28 and 29, its India focus meeting will be held at Interlaken in Switzerland. It will also organise Horasis China focus meeting in the UK on November 5 and November 6.
 
 On the sidelines of BGBS, Richter told TOI that 70 countries participated in the Bangkok meet and in Kolkata the number will be no less. “We are expecting 400 participants, mainly CEOs from across the globe, for the Kolkata meet which will be our first summit in India. We are expecting top CEOs from Asia, Europe and US for the second Horasis Asia meeting,” he added. Asked about the reason to choose Kolkata as a venue for the meeting, Richter said that Asia is the region of hope with India at the centre. He was confident that India would double its growth in next few years and overtake China. “West Bengal could be a new driver of growth for the region. The state is showing its new economic strength and I am quiet convinced,” he added. 
 
 
