AHMEDABAD: In what Indian officials described as another significant achievement in pushing Islamabad to act against cross-border terrorism, India got Japan to name Pakistan-based terror groups LeT and JeM in the joint statement issued after the   summit. This follows the Xiamen Declaration, the first from BRICS to name the groups while expressing concern over terrorism. 

  The summit here also, as expected, saw Modi and Abe discuss the situation in North Korea, with the leaders, in an oblique reference to China and Pakistan, stressing the importance of holding accountable all parties that have supported Pyongyang's nuclear and missile programmes. North Korea, which recently tested a hydrogen bomb, was reported on Thursday to have threatened that it was going to "sink'' the four islands of the Japanese archipela go. 
 
 Addressing the issue of terrorism, the joint statement said Modi and Abe looked forward to the fifth India-Japan Consultation on Terrorism, and strengthening cooperation against terrorist threats from groups including "al-Qaida, IS, Jaish-e-Mohammad, Lakshar-e-Taiba and their affiliates''.
 
 The 2016 joint statement had not named these groups even though it had called for Pakistan to bring the perpetrators of terrorist attacks, including 26/11 and the 2016 Pathankot strike, to justice.
 
  And while the 2016 statement had underlined the need for all countries to effectively deal with "trans-national terrorism" emanating from their territory, it was a lot more direct this year, calling upon all countries to work towards rooting out terrorist havens and infrastructure, disrupting their networks and financing channels, and halting the "cross-border movement of terrorists" . 
 
 Foreign secretary S Jaishankar said the message to Pakistan was quite clear after the back-to-back Xiamen Declaration and India-Japan joint statement. The naming of LeT and JeM by BRICS was seen as a significant achievement as China had, in 2016, blocked India's move to include their names in the Goa Declaration.
 
 Modi and Abe also condemned "in the strongest terms" North Korea's continued development of its nuclear weapons and ballistic missile programmes.
 
  "Recognising that North Korea's continued pursuit of nuclear and ballistic missile programmes and its proliferation links, including the launch of a ballistic missile flying over Japanese territory on 29 August 2017, pose a grave and real threat to international peace and stability and the international non-proliferation efforts, the two Prime Ministers strongly urged North Korea to abandon its nuclear and ballistic missile programmes and not to take any further provocative actions, and to fully comply with its international obligations under relevant UNSC resolutions, including the newly and unanimously adopted resolution 2375, and other international commitments," said the joint statement. 
 
 The two leaders also called on the international community to rigorously and fully implement relevant UNSC resolutions to maximise pressure on North Korea. 
 
 
