JAIPUR: The  , which had taken over the management of   in October last year, has not only reduced expenditure but also brought down the fatality of cows.

 Recently, the organization had submitted documents in the high court exposing the bungling of public funds by   (JMC) for managing the cow shelter.
 
 The government had handed over the largest goshala in the state after a huge number of deaths of cows stranded in the slush were reported during monsoon last year. The issue had become a major source of embarrassment for the state government.
 
 By renegotiating the hiring of equipment and buying fodder, the Hare Krishna movement has been able to save nearly Rs 10 lakh per month in expenditure. They achieved this by diversifying procurement.
 
 “Instead of purchasing from a single vendor, we have tied up with three vendors with a fixed quantity and price for the entire month. This has resulted in improved quality and reduced prices,” the report said.
 
 The report said that ESI and PF facility have been introduced for all workers. Besides free lunch and dinner are being served for labourers at the shelter.
 
 A biometric attendance monitoring system has also been introduced at Goshala to improve the system.
 
 To reduce the fatality of cows, the segregation of bulls, weak and diseased cattle has been undertaken. “Almost 75% of the segregation work is over and the rest is in process. Segregation helps to avoid stronger cattle stamping on weaker ones while feeding which results in injury to weaker and small cattle,” said the report.
 
 It also helps to avoid unwanted pregnancy of weaker cows. After segregation, weaker one have been kept separately and given special feed to improve their health.
 
 The organization also claimed a decrease in the death of cattle since it took over day-to-day management because of the initiatives taken to improve health.
 
 There has been a decrease in the deaths of cattle. The percentage of deaths has fallen from 14.04 % on October 16 last year to 10.39 on December 1, 8.40% on January 17 this year and 6.30% on February 17, with the last mentioned making it a historical low for the cow shelter.
 
 The number of cattle too has increased consistently, claimed the organization.
 
