AGRA: The tragic accident that killed 12 school children in Etah has brought to the fore rampant flouting of norms by the authorities of private schools.

 Several private schools lending a deaf ear to the directives issued by the authorities has caused much concern to the parents and guardians of children studying in those schools. 
 
 Talking to TOI, Brij Mohan Sharma, guardian of a class VI student, said, "There are a few schools that openly violate the orders of the administration, especially those in small localities. The major concern is that school vans and buses that do not have any fitness certificates or safety features are used to ferry children, that too in an overcrowded manner."
 
 Sushma Srivastav, another parent, said, "In a bid to complete the pending syllabus, schools flout orders of the administration and conduct classes. Our major concern is the lack of safety in school vans and buses.”
 
 There are a total of 86   city. However, there are close to 2500 private schools in the district and majority of them are in rural areas. According to regional transport authorities, a total of 234 registered school cabs and 315 buses ferry students in Agra city. There are over 100 vehicles that are either not registered or not fit to transport students.
 
 On Friday, RTO seized 14 schools vans in the city limits and issued 22 challans for flouting the norms.
 
 Sushil Gupta, secretary of   (APSA), told TOI, “We have issued a notice to all schools associated with the group and have asked them to ensure safety measures in the school buses and vans.
 
 We have strictly directed around 48 schools associated with APSA to not reopen till the administration issues necessary orders in this regard."
 
 District inspector of schools Jitendar Singh said, "Though we have not received any report related to schools flouting orders of the administration, we believe that some schools in small areas and in remote villages violate orders."
 
 Meanwhile, police have registered a case against the director of   for violating the district magistrate’s orders regarding closure of schools due to fog and cold wave in the region. The accused, identified as  , is on the run.
 
 Talking to TOI, Parashuram Singh, deputy superintendent of police and circle officer of Aliganj, said, “The accused has been booked under IPC section 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant). Police will include further charges against him as the investigation progresses.” “Also, we are waiting for a written complaint against him by the victim’s parents as many are still trying to recover from the trauma of losing their children or taking care of injured ones at the hospital,” he added.
 
 The school has remained shut after the accident. One of the newly opened private junior schools in Aliganj with over 500 enrolled students from nearby villages, the school is not known to be affiliated to any board.
 
 According to sub divisional magistrate of Aliganj Mohan Singh, “The school is not known to be affiliated to any board. We will now lock down the school and will investigate further once the accused is caught.”
 
 Earlier on Thursday, police booked the injured truck driver Yogendar under IPC sections 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way), 338 (causing grievous hurt by endangering life or personal safety of others) and 304 A (causing death by negligence).” He is recuperating in Saifai hospital.
 
