SURAT: The deaths of two youths   on Sunday last was due to  , police said, adding that they are probing another five deaths in different parts of the city which too are suspected to have been  . An inquiry has been ordered in the hooch tragedy and a complaint registered. The city police have invoked section 65 (A) of Bombay Prohibition (Gujarat Amendment) Act, that provides for death penalty to an accused on conviction. The police on Tuesday raided two liquor dens in Katargam and Limbayat areas of the city where country liquor was being sold.

 Police commissioner Satish Sharma, who has handed over the investigation of the case to crime branch, on Tuesday said that poisonous methanol was found in the blood samples of Pradip Vaid and Kiritsinh Waghela, residents of Udaynagar in Katargam. However, Tenaji Thakore, who too passed away the same day, is suspected to have died due to cancer and that his blood sample report is yet to arrive.
 
 Sharma said, “Five more suspected hooch deaths have been reported, four from Surat Municipal Corporation-run SMIMER and one from New Civil Hospital on Tuesday. One person had died due to brain haemorrhage and that the viscera samples of four others have been sent to   (FSL) for tests.” 
 
 Sharma said the deceased who died at SMIMER were Prakash Rathod, a resident of Katargam; Sagar Wagh from Limbayat; Shivchandra Kapad from Dindoli, and Ashok Waghela from Katargam. Jairam Mora, a resident of Katargam, was rushed to New Civil Hospital after he complaint of severe stomach ache and reddish eyes, but he died in the evening. 
 
 It was in September 2016 that 21 people had died after consuming spurious liquor in Vareli village in the outskirts of the city. The Anti-Terrorist Squad (ATS), which probed Vareli hooch tragedy, found that the spurious liquor sold by local bootleggers contained poisonous methanol. The methanol was being pilfered from a truck that supplied it to a chemical industrial unit in Bharuch from Mumbai and used for making country liquor by the bootleggers.
 
 Police commissioner Satish Sharma said, “Methanol is not manufactured in Surat. It came either from Vapi or Mumbai into the city. It is very tough to keep an eye on tankers carrying methanol, but we are doing our best. We want to request the people who have consumed country liquor in the last three days to immediately visit SMIMER or New Civil Hospital for check-up. We have requested these hospitals to open an emergency ward for the suspected cases.”
 
