PATNA: With RJD fielding former state minister Jagdanand’s son Punit Kumar Singh against outgoing   chairman Awadhesh Narayan Singh from the   graduates’ constituency, the election for this   has taken a curious turn.
 
  Sources said Awadesh had tried his best to take a tacit support from the JD(U) and the RJD in case the seat goes in favour of the grand alliance’s third partner, the Congress. Singh is seeking re-election from the seat for the third consecutive time as BJP nominee.
  
  In 2011, Congress candidate   Singh, son of former MP Tapeshwar Singh, had lost the election to Awadhesh by a margin of 6,000 votes.
  
  Expecting that the seat would allotted to the Congress as part of seat-sharing among the three alliance partners, Awadhesh supporters had approached RJD boss Lalu Prasad and sought his tacit support in view of his party’s wide support base in Magadh and Shahabad region, sources said. The Gaya graduates’ constituency is spread over all the nine districts of Magadh and Shahabad region.
  
  Both Punit and Awadhesh belong to same caste. Since Punit is the son of RJD heavyweight Jagdanand, who enjoys a good reputation among the people of Shahabad region, the RJD nominee may make some dent in the BJP vote bank.
  
  Though a greenhorn in council polls, Punit has been working in the area for the past several months and has enrolled thousands of graduates as electors. On the other hand, Awadhesh is known as a veteran of the council polls. Prior to winning the Gaya graduates’ seat in 2005 and 2011, Awadhesh had been winning the council election from South Chhotanagpur (now in Jharkhand) graduates’ constituency before creation of Jharkhand in November 2000.
  
  Apart from Gaya seat, the council polls will also be held in Saran graduates’ constituency besides Gaya and Kosi teachers’ constituencies on March 9. While the Saran graduates’ seat fell vacant because of disqualification of Mahachandra Prasad Singh on December 2, 2015, Gaya and Kosi teachers’ constituencies are going to the polls because the term of sitting MLCs Sanjeeva Shyam Singh and Sanjeev Kumar Singh, respectively, is to end on May 8 this year.
