Bucking the trend, more government school children in   are turning to private tuitions, while more private school children who once flocked to tuition centres are turning away from these. The ASER (Annual State Education Report) survey that mapped rural schools across the state showed that the trend has been changing, most notably in the past 6 years. Back in 2010, while only 39.9% of the government school students (classes 1 to 5) took extra private tuitions, by 2016 this number had risen to 45.6%.

 In 2010, nearly 79.% children studying in private schools were taking private tuitions. It dipped to 70% by 2016. This trend was observed even at the middle school level (classes 6 to 8). While there was a nearly 2% increase in the number of government school children opting for tuitions, private school children going for the same extra tutoring dipped by 6.4%. The surveying team said the increase or decrease in the number of children opting for tuitions or otherwise reflects on the teaching methodology adopted by teachers in these schools.
 
 B Oliver, state head (TN), Pratham, says one factor that contributes to government school children opting for private tuition classes is the confusion in the pedagogy followed by the teachers. “While ABL (activity based learning) is prescribed, the on-ground reality shows there is confusion among teachers whether to follow the ABL alone or to go by the text book curriculum, which requires them to complete portions in set time limits. ABL, which helps children learn at their own pace, involves a lot more hand-on practical work. This is not followed diligently everywhere,“ he said, adding that teacher training will be key to tackling such challenges.
 
 Only 35% of government and government-aided schools have teachers who employ alternative learning methodology , which makes lessons more interactive and hands-on. This, according to experts, is the ideal way to teach young children, especially from classes 1 to 8. Education activists say the problem with implementing this system more widely is the patchy funding for ABL from the state government. “ A school that has been following the ABL teaching method, despite having less teachers, has students who are able to perform, speak and carry themselves very well. But thanks to the lack of efficient state policies, the elementary education is facing this crisis of students having to opt for private tuitions outside,“ says P B Prince  , general secretary , State Platform for Common School System.
 
