BENGALURU: Avinash BA started growing grapes on a two acre-farm near Chikkanahalli, around 1.5km from the souther entrance to   ( ) three years ago. However, Avinash has reaped just one   on his vineyard, which lies along the road parallel to KIA’s second runway that is under construction.

 Pointing to the trundling earth removal machines at work at KIA, he said, “Since work started there, my vineyard has been covered in dust and mud. When the electric company started laying cables on the other side of the farm, dust started invading my farm from both directions.”
 
 With no hopes of seeing another harvest, Avinash cleared the field. “Now, we’ll wait for the construction to get over before planting anything,” said Avinash. Moreover, the government has acquired nearly one acre of his plot for developing the new road to KIA.
 
 “Just before the air show started, I got a notice. A day after receiving the notice, two vehicles came in and wiped out the farm that had once belonged to my grandparents. I have been paid Rs 1.19 crore in   for 19 guntas, but am yet to be paid for the remaining 18 guntas. I am currently managing my household with the income generated by our poultry farm,” he added.
 
 Avinash is one of the many   in Begur, Chikkanahalli and Mailanahalli whose land has been acquired by the government for road-widening work. Muni Krishnappa, who gave up five acres for the purpose is still awaiting compensation. “I gave my land willingly since it was being used for a good cause believing the government would compensate us fairly. I am not facing any problems at the moment, but I expected the government to compensate us sooner,” said Krishnappa, whose family has been involved in agriculture at Begur for 60 years.
 
 However, Narasiyamma, a resident of Mailanahalli for the past 40 years, said that bureaucrats arrived at her house one day and put a red cross. “Nobody came to speak to us about compensation. About half of the temple complex adjacent tour site will also be cleared,: Narasiyamma told TOI.
 
 A portion of an anganwadi centre close to Narasiyamma’s house is also likely to be razed down. “Officials came here about five months ago and told us that half of the school complex would be lost because of the road-widening project. This anganwadi is like home to more than 15 children, and has stood here for 28 years,” said Gouramma, who works at the anganwadi.
 
 The many villages in Bengaluru north taluk are transforming at a startling pace, owing to their proximity to KIA. Pastures and agricultural fields are making way for cement and asphalt. Many farmers in the village said that they were not prepared to part with their land yet. Prathiba Vishwanath and her family have been involved in farming activity at Chikkanahalli for the past 30 years. But her family had to give up 3.5 guntas of ancestral land for the road-widening project.
 
 “We submitted relevant documents some time ago. But we received compensation only last week,” she said.
 
