CHITRAKOOT: People of more than 32 dacoit-infested villages of Manikpur, Markundi, Bahilpurwa, Karvi, Pahari and Rajapur are relieved of the fear factor associated with bandits who have left the badlands of Bundelkhand. A majority of dacoit gangs, especially Shiv Kumar alias Dadua and Ambika Patel alias Thokia, who were known for issuing diktats in favour of their preferred candidates during assembly polls were eliminated, while three smaller gangs including Babuli Kol and Goppa, operating on UP-MP border are struggling for survival.

 In a bid to make rural voters feel safe while casting their vote, police carried out extensive combing operations in the dacoit infested belt. Joint teams of Chitrakoot police and state armed police (Chattisgarh) are intensifying combing operations in villages on UP-MP border to win the confidence of masses. Villagers too admitted that the situation has changed completely compared to what it was in 2007 and 2012 assembly elections when dacoits influenced voters' decision.
 
 Karvi resident Akhilesh Mishra said, “Villagers are participating fearlessly in the democratic process and elimination of dacoit gangs is bound to increase voting percentage in the forthcoming elections." Mainkpur resident Utkarsh Patel said, “Dacoit gangs active on UP-MP border rely on villages dominated by population of their own caste and thereby settle personal scores."
 
 IG, Allahabad zone, Dr K S Pratap Kumar told TOI, “Joint teams of police and paramilitary forces comprising a company of state armed police of Chhattisgarh too are carrying out combing operations in Chitrakoot. Police have also intensified campaign to give public a secure feeling while the operation against illegal weapons and liquor have also been launched in bordering areas."
 
 The IG also said that police of UP and MP had held an important meeting at Kalinjar to ensure foolproof security arrangements during polls, discussing plan to barricade infiltration of bandit gangs from one state to another.
 
 A source in the security forces told TOI, “Babuli Kol gang is active in Mau-Manikpur belt while Goppa's men are present in Pahari area of Karvi circle. But both gangs who had recently targeted labourers working on projects on bordering area have not been able to muster courage to issue diktats regarding election candidates as they are busy protect themselves from police as well as their rivals. Only five small gangs are operating on UP-MP border under the limits of Chitrakoot district," said the source.
 
