Normally, an accident is a sudden unexpected incident that could lead to injury or death, such as a motor vehicle accident. However, in law, accident is any sudden, unexpected and violent injury , and includes death due to heat wave, cold wave, sunstroke, snake bite, dog bite even mosquito bite causing malaria or dengue.

 Case Study: Budhan Prasad had taken a personal accident insurance policy from  . The sum insured under the policy was Rs l lakh and its validity was from March 31, 2005 to March 30, 2010.
 
 During the policy period, Budhan was killed on June 1, 2008. His son Raj Kishore Prasad claimed the policy amount. The claim was rejected by the insurance company and he then filed a complaint before the district consumer forum. The insurance company contested the case, contending that the repudiation was justified that Budhan's death was not an accident but a murder.
 
 The forum upheld the insurance company's argument and dismissed the complaint. Raj Prasad challenged this order in appeal. The state commission set aside the forum's order and held the insurance company liable to pay the sum insured of Rs1 lakh along with interest at 6% p a, compensation of Rs 10,000, and litigation costs of Rs 5,000.
 
 Bajaj Allianz questioned this order by filing a revision petition. The   ob served that the question was whether Budhan's death was accidental or not.The FIR revealed that Budhan had gone to visit his married daughter Sushila Devi, and he was killed in her house.
 
 The murderers had climbed on the roof and shot Sushila Devi and Budhan who were sleeping on the roof of the house. The motive was to kill Sushila Devi, as she, along with some other person, was facing trial in a murder case. Sushila and the other person had engaged goons to threaten the witnesses in that case so. Since those persons had not been produced as witnesses, Sushila and her aideasked for a refund from the goons. This lead to a dispute. The goons plotted to kill Sushila Devi. One night, they climbed on the roof of the house to shoot and kill Sushila Devi. Since her father Budhan was also present there by chance, he too was shot.
 
 While deciding the case, the National Commission relied on the legal interpretation of accident laid down by the Supreme Court in Rita Devi versus New India Assurance, where it was observed that the dominant reason for the murder would determine whether it could be termed an accident.Going by this interpretation, the Commission concluded that the facts in Budhan's case reveal that the murderers had not come to kill him, but to kill his daughter Sushila Devi. It was just an unfortunate coincidence that Budhan happened to be present at his daughter's house at that time. Hence the Commission concluded that even though Budhan was murdered, his death was accidental.
 
 Accordingly , by its order of October 26 delivered by Justice V K Jain, the National Commission held that the state commission had correctly ruled that the claim was payable, and dismissed the revision filed by Bajaj Allianz.
 
 Conclusion: In law, the sudden, unforeseen and violent death of a particular person is considered to be an accidental death. This would include death due to adverse work conditions such as working in icy cold water, or due to natural elements such as altitude sickness, sunstroke, heatstroke or cold wave, death due to snake bite, dog bite or insect bite, and even unnatural death due to an accidental killing.
 
 
 
 
