Late chief minister J Jayalalithaa's childhood friends say if they were to pick between O Panneerselvam and V K Sasikala, they would choose OPS over VKS.

 Classmates and friends from Sacred Heart Church Park Convent say it's not just because of the treatment meted out to them by Sasikala, but because they believe “Jayalalithaa would have picked Panneerselvam because she had faith in him“.
 
 “The current situation is sad,“ said Srimathi Iyengar, classmate and friend of Jayalalithaa until she was suddenly refused entry to her friend's home in the 1980s.
 
 Srimathi said every time she looked at her phone where she has a photograph of Jayalalithaa with her as wallpaper, she could not but think how the late chief minister's political legacy was being ruined. “From what I remember, I think she would have preferred someone like OPS. Jaya was an intelligent person and thought two steps ahead. She would not have left things the way they are now.
 
 
  
 
 She must have chosen a political heir,“ said Srimathi, adding that she noticed a dramatic change in the Poes Garden household in the mid80s when “everyone from the household help to the people around Jayalalithaa“ had changed.
 
 Classmate Chandini Pankaj Bhulani, who now lives in Bengaluru, lani, who now lives in Bengaluru, sees Sasikala as the person who created a rift between Jayalalithaa and her childhood friends. “Thrice Jaya visited me in the hospital when I gave birth to my children. We would go to her place for meals but things changed overnight,“ said Chandini, adding that in 2005 she had the last supper with her. 
 
 “After that we were barred from even seeing her. I remember contacting Panneerselvam when we were on our way to Jaya's house from Bengaluru. We had got in touch with him as we wanted to invite Jaya for our son's wedding. He got us an appointment but when we reached her house, we were stopped by Sasikala's people,“ said Chandini.
 
 Chandini said one their schoolmates, who was a travel agent and handling Jayalalithaa's itinerary was threatened by Sasikala and told to stay away. “That friend just never stopped all communication but still tells us about the incident and how it frightened her. Panneerselvam was a gentler person and even the last time we were at Jaya's house for lunch, he was by her side,“ said Chandini. “Sasikala seemed to be always about threats and intimidation,“ she said.
 
 Another school friend, Bader Sayeed, who later joined the   but moved to the AAP in 2014, said, “I believe OPS was the person in whom Amma reposed faith.“
 
 
