Mumbai Indians created history by becoming the first team to win the IPL for a record three times, when they beat Rising Pune Supergiant, the team they had lost to thrice earlier in the tournament, by one run in the final in Hyderabad on Sunday night.

 MI defended a modest 130-run target on the back of a magnificent bowling effort from Mitchell Johnson who, playing his fifth game of the season, successfully defended 11 off the last over and finished with 3/26 to outshine an equally impressive knock from Steve Smith (51). This is also the first time since 2008 that a team finishing first in the Points Table has lifted the trophy.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The previous defeat against Supergiant perhaps fresh, Rohit Sharma for a change, decided to post a target rather than chase one. But from ball one, it were the Rising Pune Supergiant who kept the dice rolling. On a decent enough surface to bat on, MI batsmen struggled; to an extent that they could score just 16 runs after five overs, the lowest in that period. Knowing how much Parthiv Patel and Lendl Simmons like the ball coming onto their bats, Steve Smith made Washington Sundar open the bowling alongside his key fast bowler Jaydev Unadkat. And the results followed immediately. The pressure created after the first two overs, in which only seven runs were scored, paid off when Parthiv mistimed a pull off Unadkat to Shardul Thakur at mid-on. Three balls later, Unadkat's cutter did the trick again. Simmons, trying to nudge it to leg, managed a leading edge and the bowler, in the middle of his follow through, stretched his left arm out to pluck a one-handed return catch. Ambati Rayudu and Rohit Sharma had no choice but to bide their time and play themselves in. The first boundary came after five overs.
 
 
 
 
 After five overs, Mumbai were 16/2. They doubled it in the next over with Rohit spanking Lockie Ferguson for four boundaries in the over. But that joy was short-lived, courtesy a splendid direct hit from Smith that resulted in Rayudu's run-out. Even as Rohit, along with Krunal Pandya attempted to rebuild the innings, the bowlers, who operated impeccably on a stump-to-stump line, didn't make it easy. Rohit's short-yet-entertaining knock was cut short when he holed out to Thakur off Adam Zampa, dealing MI a telling blow. Thereon, MI completely fell apart. Keiron Pollard, Hardik Pandya and Karn Sharma departed with scores at 65, 78 and 79. 
 
 
 
 
 At 79/7, all doors seemed to be shutting on Mumbai Indians, before Krunal did the sensible thing to try to stay till the end, which he did. Well, almost. Krunal banked on running hard between the wickets for the most part of his innings before switching gears in the end. The big shots finally came out in the last three overs, and he got 13, 10 and an extremely crucial 14 runs in the final three overs before departing for 47 - with three fours and two sixes - off the last ball of the innings. He got able support from Mitchell Johnson, who did not give his wicket at the other end. The eighth-wicket stand between the two batsmen was worth 50 runs, and it took MI to 129/8.
 
 
 
 
 MI were desperate for wickets, and it was evident from the fact that Rohit employed six different bowlers to bowl the first six overs. Of them, Jasprit Bumrah got the first breakthrough, removing Rahul Tripathi out leg before cheaply even as the ball seemed to be heading above the stumps. That however, was the only early success to grace MI. Despite the wicket, things seemed easy for Ajinkya Rahane and Smith. MI could have had a second one had Krunal not dropped Rahane off Lasith Malinga at short-cover. But it was almost as if Rahane was waiting for an eye-opener. After that drop, the batsman looked flawless. He used his feet amazingly against Karn and judged the length well from the pacers. Malinga and Johnson were creamed for crisp boundaries before Rahane perished holing out in the deep to Pollard.
 
 
 
 
 Rahane's dismissal surprisingly gave Mumbai Indians a slice of life. All of a sudden, the bowlers found their length and run-scoring became tight. They were neck and neck by the end of the 15th over - Supergiant were 83 in comparison to MI's 81. Mumbai had slowed things down and Malinga, off colour this season, started darting those quick yorkers. 47 needed off the last five, you would usually fancy the batting side but with the pressure of a final, it was easier said than done. Dhoni and Smith carted and four and a six respectively to take 14 off the 15th, but Mumbai responded solidly by removing Supergiant's former skipper to provide breathing space once again. As the equation narrowed down to 23 off two, Smith pummelled Bumrah for a six to bring up his fifty. The last over went to Johnson, the first ball of which Tiwary took a boundary. But off the second ball, Johnson got his man. Supergiant's biggest blow then arrived the ball after when Smith holed out to Rayudu at sweeper cover. Four needed off the last ball, Sundar was run out attempting a third and victory was MI's.
 
