NEW DELHI: The National Investigation Agency (NIA) filed two separate chargesheets on Wednesday against IS suspects from Tamil Nadu and Kerala, including Tirunelvelibased Subahani Haja Moideen, the second Indian to have fought in   and   after Kalyan-based Areeb Majeed. As first reported by TOI, Moideen had also met the 2015 Paris attacker Omar Ismail Mostefei several times in  .

 He was trained by a French national, Abu Suleiman Al-Francisi, who investigators suspect could be Abdelhamid Abaaoud, mastermind of the Paris attacks. NIA says during his stay in IS territory in Mosul, Moideen was in close touch with Pakistani national Mohammad Ghani Usman, a bomb making expert of  , who was arrested by Austrian authorities near Salzburg in December 2015 and later charged for Paris attacks conspiracy by French police. The French authorities had examined Moideen in Delhi after his arrest in October. 
 
 Termed as the most battlehardened recruit from India for IS, Moideen has provided interesting details about life of IS fighters inside its territory. Moideen had reached Iraq from the Turkish city of Urfa in April 2015 along with other fighters from Jordan, Germany, Europe, UK, France, Lebanon, Pakistan and Afghanistan.
 
 As fighters, they attended religious class every day and three senior IS members delivered the ‘baith’ (oath) of loyalty to recruits, six at a time, in the name of Al Baghdadi. In Mosul camp, Moideen was kept in a group named Umar Ibnu Khatab Khatiba, headed by a French national with the given name of Abu Suleiman Al-Francisi. Ghani Usman was also part of this group and they both used to talk regularly about India and Pakistan.
 
 Moideen also came face to face with Paris attacker Omar Ismail Mostefei several times in Mosul. Mostefei, Moideen had claimed, used to regularly come to their camp to meet their “group leader” Al-Francisi, the NIA says. The agency filed its second charge-sheet against the members of IS’ Kerala module. Those named in the chargesheet include Manseed Mehmood alias Omar al-Hindi, Swalih Mohammed, Rashid Ali, Ramshad N K, Safvan P, Jasim N K, who were arrested in October last year, and Shajeer Mangalassery, their leader, who is said to be based in Afghanistan.
 
 
 
