PATNA: In what was his most scathing attack on CM Nitish Kumar’s prohibition policy heard in the post-UP election phase, Union minister and Rashtriya Lok Samata Party (RLSP) national chief Upendra Kushwaha on Monday called him a ‘kalaakaar’, adding that the CM first pushed liquor to every corner of the state for sale and then imposed prohibition claiming to protect the society.

 Speaking at a function held at S K Memorial Hall here to celebrate the birth anniversary of Emperor Ashoka from Mauryan dynasty, Kushwaha said, “This is nowhere near the rule of Emperor Ashoka. My elder brother   is a very big ‘kalaakaar’. But who pushed the sale of liquor in the state? Suddenly, he imposed prohibition saying he has done it to protect society and its people from bad effects of liquor consumption.”
 
 Kushwaha also compared Nitish with the hero in a film who plants “fake criminals” to harass the heroine on the road and then appears on the scene to thrash them and win her heart. “The imposition of prohibition was like such a film script,” Kushwaha said.
 
 “If you want to do something good for the people of the state, first improve the school education system and the healthcare facilities,” he added. 
 
 The function was organized under the banner of Akhil Bharatiya Mahatma Phule Samata Parishad (ABMPSP), an affiliated body of the RLSP. Party MP R K Sharma, MLA Sudhanshu Shekhar, MLC Sanjeev Singh Shyam, RLSP state chief  , former MP Dasai Choudhary, RLSP general secretary Ram Bihari Singh and ABMPSP president Satyanand Prasad Dangi were among those who also spoke on the occasion. 
 
 Kushwaha said in the entire history of the country, only two emperors — Ashoka and Akbar — have been called “great”. Curiously, the Rajasthan BJP has been pursuing to undermine that status of Akbar. Kushwaha also said Emperor Ashoka picked up the fundamental principles of his rule — like world brotherhood, non-violence and piety for human beings, animals as well as plants — from Buddhist thoughts.
 
 However, like the BJP, he also insisted that the people of Kushwaha (Koeri) caste were “vanshaj” (descendant) of the Mauryan dynasty kings and pointed out that people of this caste had played an important role in ensuring the victory of BJP and its alliance partners in Uttar Pradesh.
 
 “I feel proud of working with PM   who belongs to the extremely backward caste,” Kushwaha said, adding that the PM had given proper representation to the people of this caste by making K P Maurya deputy CM in the   cabinet.
 
 However, Kushwaha asked his caste constituents to be wary of CM Nitish and demanded that the name of Patna be changed to Pataliputra. He volunteered to lead a movement for the opening of the lock of the gates of Chandan Pir shrine in Rohtas district and sought their support. That apart, he said the Caste and Socio Economic Census details should be made public. 
 
