HYDERABAD: The grand public celebration of   and Diwali in Hyderabad and its predecessor fort city of   dates back to early Dravidian or later Kakatiya period. The tradition of Dasara processions continued even after the fall of the Kakatiyas ­ during the Qutub Shahi regime. And they were ceremoniously carried forward by the Asaf Jahi Nizams, who even declared public holiday for more than one day during Dasara, Diwali and Holi.

 Historical narratives show that besides Dasara and Diwali, the festival heralding spring ­ Basant ­ was a royal affair during the Qutub Shahi reign with women and men all dressed in yellow ­ dancing and singing in the maidans or open spaces attached to royal palaces. The mega celebrations were first held in   and later in the newly created city of Hyderabad a little over four centuries ago. There were merriment and revelry with rulers and nobles joining common people in the celebrations.
 
 History also reveals that a number of artistes, dancers, musicians and several men, dressed up like tigers or their bodies painted in yellow with black stripes, used to perform during major festivals. Processions were also carried out during the Milad-un-Nabi (Prophet's birthday), Shab-e-Baraat (one of the nights of vigil observed by Muslims) and Id-ul-Fitr that marks the end of Islamic month of fasting. And of course, the Langar parade on the fifth day of   since the reign of Sultan Abdullah Qutub Shah VII. Dasara was one of the state festivals during the Qutub Shahi and Asaf Jahi regimes. During the reign of Mohammad Quli Qutub Shah V , who according to a legend was born to a Hindu woman, Dasara was celebrated in the Dilkusha Maidan attached to one of the royal Mahals. Thanks to Ibrahim Qutub Shah IV , who spent several years in exile in Vijayanagar king dom, the   followed both Hindu and Muslim traditions. Friday was not a public holiday . It was Tuesday those days in deference to the wishes of the majority of the subjects.
 
 INTACH Telangana co-convener P Anuradha Reddy said grand celebrations were held in Golconda Fort. “There used to be communal amity . One of our Muslim neighbours used to stitch clothes for me, along with their daughter for Eid and we used to reciprocate on Dasara,“ she said. Dr Mohammad Safiullah, an expert in Hyderabad history, told TOI that during t Asaf Jahi period a three-day holiday was declared on the occasions of Dasara, Diwali and Holi.
 
 Hindu festivals particularly Dasara and Diwali commanded such a high royal regard that Mohammad Quli Qutub Shah V, according to Abdul Majeed Siddiqui (History of Golcunda, published in 1956) “His Urdu collection of poetry is interspersed with unceremonious use of Telugu words and phrases and even more strange is the fact that his Urdu poems centre round local Hindu festivals“.
 
 Archival data refers to durbars held by Nizams on festivals ­Hindu and Muslim ­ where the nobles and the common people used to meet the rulers. There were 'Nazar' (gift) presentations and eminent people were honoured. Religious and state calendars were intermixed to ensure all festivals are celebrated. The procession of  , a noble of the Asaf Jahi dynasty, on Dasara used to stand apart in magnificence.
 
