NEW DELHI: Even as   scrambled for damage control after party veteran Sheila Dikshit’s comments that   was not yet a mature leader,   latched onto the remark to ask Congress why it was bent on imposing Rahul on Uttar Pradesh.

 Dikshit’s comments as part of an exclusive interview to TOI on Thursday took political circles by storm and unleashed a flood of commentary on social media and news websites as the former Delhi CM’s observations were hotly debated. “Please remember Rahul is still not mature, his age does not allow him to be mature. He is what... in his forties. Please give him time,” she had said.
 
 Embarrassingly for Congress, party veteran Harikesh Bahadur seized upon Dikshit’s comment to say that the party should debate if Rahul was ready for taking over the leadership. “Coming from a senior person like Sheila ji, this is very troubling indeed,” he said. 
 
 Dikshit’s comments were scooped up by BJP leaders with party chief Amit Shah saying “Sheila ji, the whole country acknowledges the fact which you stated that Rahul is immature, but I want to ask why you are thrusting him on UP?” Looking to distance itself from the controversy, Congress spokesperson Shobha Oza said, “Such comments should be ignored. She (Dikshit) needs to clarify on what she has said. As far as the country is concerned, everyone knows Rahul fought for farmers on land acquisition bill and pressured the government to drop any anti-farmer step. He fought against atrocities on the downtrodden, be it the Rohith Vemula case or others. He is fighting for the rights of farmers, SCs, STs and poor.”
 
 There was not much respite for Congress as oil minister Dharmendra Pradhan said, “It was delayed, but at least the acknowledgement has come. It was already known to the people of the country. I thank Sheila ji for finally acknowledging the truth.” The party saw the opportunity to drive home its attack on Congress that it sees as the weak link in the Samajwadi-Congress alliance. 
 
 In a clarification of sorts issued by Dikshit with a hashtag DontTwistMyWords, she tweeted, “Rahul has the sensitivity and concern of a mature leader. His words are those of a young, courageous and restless man.”
 
