BHUBANESWAR: While chief minister and BJD president   on Saturday tried to send out a strong signal that his flock remains intact, many of his party colleagues pointed out all is not well within the regional party. 

 Taking the lead, MP  , who had earlier alleged that the BJP was trying to split the BJD and foist a snap poll in Odisha, said, “Let’s accept the truth. There is no intra-party understanding. Even workers are being divided into groups.”
 
 Speaking at the party’s meeting to mark the three years of Naveen’s fourth term, the editor-MP said, “We should remember that the singular reason why we are winning election is Naveen Patnaik. Without Naveen and conch, I won’t win. Most of us won’t win. We have to be humble. But arrogance has taken over us. Even in this meeting I noticed some members requesting minister Pradeep Maharathy for transfers of certain officials. Death is imminent,” he said.
 
 The editor-MP pointed out the people are confused with BJD’s political stand vis-à-vis the BJP. “We don’t have a political vision. People are watching us. We need to make our stand clear and give a clear message to our workers. And that message has to come from the top.”
 
 Echoing similar views, Rajya Sabha member Prasanna Acharya pointed out lack of coordination between the party and the government. “We are doing lots of good work but that message is not reaching out to people. We need better coordination between the party and the leaders.”
 
 Stating that the BJD has reasons to worry, Acharya said, “We must accept the bitter truth that we have to face a big challenge. We must not underestimate our rivals. We must take steps before it’s too late.” 
 
 Accusing the BJP of being a master of false publicity, Acharya said, “They are spreading lies. If falsehood is repeated it appears true.” Pointing the BJP’s game-plan in Uttar Pradesh and Assam where the saffron party poached leaders from rival parties, Acharya said, “It is now planning the same strategy in Odisha and West Bengal.”
 
 Senior MLA Bed Prakash Agarwalla said, “Let’s not fight among ourselves, let’s fight with the BJP,” a view echoed by many other leaders.
 
