BHOPAL: Madhya Pradesh special task force (STF) has initiated investigation into a major scam, alleged to be bigger than  , where racketeers allegedly converted government land into private by hacking the security code of the land record management software. They ended up minting hundreds of crores, and this is apparently only the tip of the iceberg.

 TOI was the first to report the possibility of such a scam on June 17, outlining how the digitization of land records had turned out to be just another can of worms in the state. In Narsinghpur, the scamsters allegedly falsified records of non-existing land by breaching security passcodes of the portal and went on to avail loans from banks, say sources. Often, farmers had no clue that loans had been taken by mortgaging their land.
 
 The STF has started its investigation from ground zero — Narsinghpur. It has sent notices to several nationalized and private banks in   area of the district following inputs of collusion between some bank officers and an organized syndicate of land grabbers. Loans were given on forged documents, said an officer privy to the investigation.
 
 Social activist  , who is associated with  , is one of the whistle-blowers of the scam. He had approached CBI and other investigating agencies for a probe into allotment of loans by nationalized banks on “fictitious land records created through this portal”. “There is an organized syndicate behind the land scam. If investigated, this would turn out to be bigger that the Vyapam,” he said.
 
 There is an increasing number of complaints that scamsters are getting their hands on login IDs and passwords of the software ‘MPWEBGIS’ to tamper with land records. While whistle-blowers accuse the software firm of operating an insecure system, the company maintains that its system is completely secure.
 
 Morena collector had written to the commissioner-land records (CLR), expressing serious concern over “misuse of the MPWEBGIS portal”. He had pointed out two cases where government land was converted into private land through “unauthorized access of the portal using ID and password”.
 
 Around 225 acres of government land, worth Rs 116 crore, was transferred to private people in Gwalior district. It’s under investigation by local police, but sources say the hackers have deleted much of the evidence the same way they sneaked into the system.
 
