LUCKNOW: “It's not a personal victory against Netaji (Mulayam), but this was a battle I had to fight,“ said chief minister   on Tuesday, a day after his anointment as SP's national president was upheld by the  , in a bid to reach out to his father   and uncle   before launching the party's election campaign.

 In an informal chat with mediapersons, Akhilesh said he was confident that the EC would award him the party symbol and said he wanted the SP patriarch to lead the party and his relationship with his father was something that can never change.
 
 Clearing the air over the SP-Congress alliance, he said the issue would be finalised within a day or two. “We are in the process of finalizing the list of candidates and will complete it in a day's time,“ he said, talking to mediapersons at his 5, Kalidas Marg residence. Later in the day , Akhilesh met Mulayam at the latter's residence where ousted state chief of the party Shivpal Yadav was also present.
 
 During the brief meeting, Akhilesh is believed to have once again assured the party patriarch of doing his best to ensure SP's victory in the assembly elections. Senior leaders in SP said efforts were underway to convince Mulayam to lead the party campaign as well. “Netaji is the undisputed and tallest leader in SP and we will request him to lead the campaign,“ said SP MP Naresh Agarwal, adding: “I am sure he won't be able to say no to the request of lakhs of party workers.“ Agarwal, who had stood with Akhilesh all through the family fued and returned to Lucknow on Tuesday evening, said he would seek an audience with Mulayam on Wednesday .
 
 Senior leaders said instructions had been issued to all party leaders to ensure Mulayam's presence on all the publicity material of the candidates and final touches were being given to the party manifesto which will also feature a photograph of the party founder prominently . Sources said the January 19 twin rallies of Akhilesh Yadav that was slated to be held in Agra and Aligarh have been postponed and party leaders were waiting for a nod from Mulayam before drawing a fresh schedule of the party campaign.
 
