AURANGABAD: Mercury levels are   in the city and region after a   from the heat.

 Maximum temperature in Aurangabad touched around 41.6 degrees celsius mark on Saturday. Along with the rise in temperature in Aurangabad, other Marathwada cities of Parbhani and Nanded recorded maximum temperature of 44 degrees celsius.
 
 The met department, however, has warned of possibility of unseasonal rainfall that could be accompanied with gusty winds in the next 48 hours. The met department’s similar forecasts recently have gone wrong.
 
 As per India Meteorological Department (IMD), rain or thundershowers with strong gusty winds could occur in Aurangabad and few other parts of Marathwada during next few days. 
 
 According to private weather agency SkyMet, the possibility of rainfall is attributed to the trough, which is extending from Central India to interior Karnataka and Tamil Nadu across Vidarbha, Marathwada and southern parts of Madhya Marathwada. The rain activity is expected to bring down rising mercury level.
 
 Several residents said the rise in city temperature was evident from the scorching heat experienced during the day time. “It was giving sunburn kind of a feeling while venturing out in the afternoon hours. The summer days were not that harsh a few days back,” said  , a private insurance agent.
 
 Aurangabad had recorded 41.1 degrees celsius and 41.4 degree celsius temperature on Thursday and Friday, respectively. 
 
 Meanwhile, if the forecast of unseasonal rainfall coupled with gusty winds comes true, it could cause huge damage to mangoes, which are nearing natural ripening stage at many places in the region. Marathwada is especially known to grow Keshar variety of mangoes and the characteristic fruits could receive a blow.
 
 “Rainfall is okay at times, but heavy winds definitely spell doom for mangoes on trees. These fruits are about to ripen on trees and could easily fall down due to gusty winds,” said  , who owns around half a dozen mango trees in Beed district. 
 
 It may be noted that the met department had issued warning of unseasonal rainfall accompanied by hailstorm in parts of Marathwada at least twice in recent past.
 
 
