In a career spanning 27 years, this, interestingly, is only the 23rd film for Rajkiran. Starting as a film executive, rising to a distributor, producer and making his debut as a hero when he was 41 years old in a   film,   has done it all. And now, after all these years,   will again introduce Rajkiran as a hero — he’s 68 now! Ensconced in a comfortable chair in his quaint bungalow, the actor, dressed as usual in veshti and shirt, gets talking to us about  , Dhanush, and more...

 The first thing, obviously, was why he gave his nod for this project. Rajkiran says, “I am very selective about my roles. It’s been 27 years since I have entered the industry and I have done only 22 films. Pa Paandi is my 23rd film. The reason behind this is that cinema is a powerful tool. Through a film there are so many good things that one can convey. And for me, if I have any part that gives me scope to convey something meaningful to the society, I will take it up. I signed this film because there are so many good things to convey in this film. In our society, most people tend to feel old once they cross 40. In Tamil, they say ‘Naapathu vayasu aana nai gunam’. Once they turn 58, they have to retire. However, for most politicians, elite class, corporate people or businessmen, they enjoy their life only after 60. But for normal people and those in the lower strata, they get a feeling that their life is almost over and they develop an inferiority complex. What Dhanush is trying to convey through this film is that age is for the body and not for the heart. Until the person dies, he has life. So, children or anyone else for that matter should treat them well instead of looking at them as a burden.”
 
 About his role, he says, “Power Paandi is a stunt master. Anybody could have played my role, but Dhanush felt I would fit in perfectly, for, it is not about the fighter. It is about his story.” After having played the lead, followed by several supporting characters, Rajkiran will play the ‘hero’ once again. Ask him about how he feels about wearing clothes that are not typical for him, and playing the lead, he says, “I was quite a shy person and never imagined myself working in front of the camera. Since I came here for survival, it doesn’t matter if I do a supporting role or the lead. And as for wearing jeans, leather jacket and riding a Bullet in the film, I think it was Dhanush’s wish to see me in this avatar.”
 
 But how did it feel to work with Dhanush, an ace-actor, who has turned director for the first time? He says, “If I could describe in one word — astonishing. Even though he had assistants, scene papers, etc, Dhanush had everything in his head. I don’t remember him referring to those papers even once. I don’t know if he was inside the story or the story was inside him. He is a perfectionist, extremely talented and gets what he wants. He knows everyone’s mindset and works accordingly. I have never seen him lose his cool. This quality is rare to find in a director,” says Rajkiran. And how does Dhanush compare with his dad, Kasthuri Raja? “Puli ettu adi paancha, kutty pathinaaru adi paayum. This fits him right.”
 
 So, what was the challenge? “Revathy maám. She is a nadippu rakshasi. She only has a cameo, but her performance is at a different level. I was nervous when we had to shoot scenes together. But our cue sheets were different, and so, I was relieved,” signs off the actor. 
 
 
 
