NEW DELHI:   has alleged that the   is pressuring   to appoint members to college governing bodies according to BJP’s whims. The party said that most of the 28 colleges, which are either partly or fully funded by Delhi government, have been without governing bodies for over eight months and this is severely affecting their work.

 A   includes the college principal, two teacher representatives and two university representatives. Another 10 members are nominated to the body, five by the state and five by   after verification by Delhi government.
 
 “The terms of the last governing bodies ended in October 2016, but the replacements have not been appointed till now. At present, DU wants to review the list of names that was sent by it to the government,” said senior   member Ashutosh.
 
 He added, “This move is suspicious and AAP would like to categorically state that the DU VC and administration are under pressure from the Centre and BJP to appoint people who are close to them. We would like to tell DU not to succumb to such pressure tactics.”
 
 AAP MLA Sanjeev Jha said that DU had sent a list of 500 teachers in February from which the government had to select names, but since then it has refused to accept the names cleared by the government.
 
 “There have been two executive council meetings, but the names have not yet been cleared. Now a four-member committee has been set up to review the list. If DU had sent the original list, what is the need to review it? Colleges cannot function without governing bodies since no appointments can be made without it,” Jha said.
 
 The government had earlier written to DU, threatening to withhold grants-in-aid to the colleges if it failed to notify the governing body immediately. Many teachers support the government’s stand and believe that the appointment of a full-member governing body will smoothen the functioning of colleges and speed up appointment of teachers. However, there are others who blame the government for a delay in shortlisting names.
 
 A few others oppose the varsity’s list saying that there a large number of academics from JNU who would not understand the functioning of DU.
 
 
