GURUGRAM:  ,   and additional forces — the Gurgaon   are leaving no stone unturned to provide a smooth passage to  , who are returning from Haridwar with Ganga water as part of their annual pilgrimage.

 Police commissioner Sandeep Khirwar, along with DCP (traffic) Simardeep Singh and others, reviewed security arrangements along national and state highways and expressways on Saturday and ordered officers to maintain tight vigil on all key roads to avert any untoward incident involving kanwariyas. 
 
 According to the police’s blueprint, around 1,000 additional personnel — including traffic cops, traffic marshals, road safety officers (RSO) and home guards — have been deployed at various points on the expressways and highways. Also, the security has been beefed up on busy Sohna road and MG Road. Inspector-rank officers are on the round-the-clock duty to maintain proper vigil on the highways. 
 
 Further, for foolproof security, the administration has decided to use drones to keep an eye on thousands of pilgrims, who will pass through the city roads, and ensure that all rules and regulations are being followed. Also,   cameras are in place along the kanwariyas’ routes and camps to monitor all kinds of activities. Sources said more than two dozen camps have been set up in Gurgaon, especially along the highways, for kanwariyas.
 
 “For the first time, drones will be used for the safety of kanwariyas as well as for smooth flow of traffic. The number of drones to be deployed is yet to be decided, but it will be as per the requirement. The additional cops have been deployed on the expressways and highways today. We also appeal to the motorists to slow down wherever they see kanwariyas passing,” Khirwar said.
 
 Despite all these security arrangements, managing the pilgrims, while ensuring smooth traffic in the city, is going to be a big challenge for the police due to several ongoing projects along the highways and expressways.
 
 “Construction work for a number of flyovers and underpasses are going on across the city. As such, road space has shrunk at many places due to these ongoing projects. As a result, we are facing a tough time to prepare special lanes for kanwariyas. We are also looking for alternative routes to reduce possibilities of snarls on main roads,” the police commissioner said.
 
 Thousands of kanwariyas started their yatra to Haridwar on July 8 to fetch Ganga water. They are now on their way back with cans and jars filled with Ganga water to dispense as offerings in their local Shiva shrines on July 21.
 
 
