PUNE: Several restaurants across the city turned the process of casting the ballot into a gourmand’s delight on Tuesday. Voters visiting eateries were greeted with sweet delicacies — kheer, gulab jamun, strawberry mousse, cupcakes and more — on the house.

 Director of Raasta Café and   Kunal Mhaske said that, on Tuesday noon, his café saw considerable footfall and a bulk of visitors were voters. “A lot of youngsters planned their day in a way that they voted before hanging out at the café. Even though it is a dry day, we’re seeing quite a crowd,” Mhaske pointed out.
 
 At the café, voters were given a complimentary platter of assorted dessert, which included brownies, cupcakes and pastries. Patrons, who voted, also received a ‘Thank You’ note along with the bill as a token of appreciation for trying to bring about a positive change in Pune.
 
 President of Restaurants and   as well as owner of   Ganesh Shetty said, “We have prepared gulab jamuns for close to 300 voters, who are expected to walk in until closing hours on Tuesday. There may be close to 30% voter turnout at the restaurant over and above the regular clients as it is a holiday for many companies today.”
 
 Balewadi’s The   offered complimentary strawberry mousse cake to voter-visitors. In fact, the resto-bar plans to continue the offer on Wednesday as well. “Not all our patrons, who voted, would be able to visit us on Tuesday. Therefore, we are extending the offer for another day as we do not want to miss out on those who exercised their franchise,” said Kishore Shetty, head of operations. The popular hangout expected as many as 80 voters to turn up on Tuesday evening.
 
 Praful Chandawarkar, owner of Malaka Spice at Koregaon Park, added, “The restaurant dished out date pancake with ice cream, chocolate mousse and jaggery ice cream on-the-house for our voter-patrons on Tuesday.”
 
 Rupali restaurant on FC road offered free dessert to all visitors in the spirit of camaraderie, irrespective of their voting status. “We have prepared special kheer for voters. We are also offering the free dessert to every one at the restaurant today,” said Shashindra Shetty, the restaurant manager.
 
 Meanwhile, a city-based shopping mall offered free movie tickets to the first 100 couples, who voted before visiting the mall. “Compared to a normal Tuesday, the footfall on voting day was much higher. A number of retail stores at the mall offered voters discounts,” said Rajiv Malla, director of Phoenix Marketcity, Pune.
 
 Over three hours, PVR Cinemas, located at the mall, gave away around 80 complimentary tickets to couples, who displayed the electoral ink. Other eateries at the shopping mall offered free desserts to patrons until 5.30pm on election day.
 
 Arjun Arora, a working professional who visited a restaurant in Koregaon Park, gorged on a free chocolate mousse because he cast his vote. “I have voted once in the past and today. There is a world of difference in the way that right to vote is being encouraged this election season. Every section, including restaurants, is doing its bit to encourage voting and that is a welcome change,” he noted.
 
