MUMBAI | NEW DELHI: Consumer demand peaked in the March quarter, recording the highest sales growth in daily groceries, and home and personal products in the past two years, a   report indicated. The recovery followed a quarter of muted sales due to the currency swap in November that had curtailed the purchasing power of rural households using cash to buy shampoos, soaps, or packaged cookies.
 
  The overall market grew 12.2% by value in the fourth quarter with 7.5% volume growth, according to executives citing Nielsen data.
  
  “Consumption is clearly recovering and is expected to continue to strengthen across the balance of the year,” Ian Cook, chief executive of Colgate-Palmolive, said on an investor call last Friday, adding that India’s urban consumption is back to normal but the wholesale channel has not completely bounced back in rural areas due to a lag effect.
  
  Unilever, the parent of consumer products company  , said about two weeks ago that growth in India had recovered from the uncertainty experienced due to the currency swap.
  
 So far, two listed companies --   and   -- have posted quarterly earnings with positive commentary on demand revival. Dabur said sales improved as the quarter progressed, led by a significant improvement in rural demand that accounted for more than half its sales. Volume swelled 2.4%.
  
  “Liquidity has come back and rural demand is looking positive. It should further accelerate over the next two quarters on the back of a good monsoon as is the expectation. We are moving more stocks in the wholesale channel,” said Dabur chief executive Sunil Duggal.
  
  Marico, which posted 10% volume growth, also said normalcy has returned.
  
  Growth, however, wasn’t entirely driven by volumes or actual products in shopping carts. Last quarter also saw companies including Britannia, Hindustan Unilever, Amul, Dabur and Parle either raising prices or cutting pack weights after prices of ingredients such as sugar, milk powder and palm oil jumped 20-80% over the past year on account of fluctuating global commodity prices and lower production cycles.
  
  
 
  Also, while listed companies have been posting lower value growth numbers, Nielsen said the market’s expansion has been fueled by smaller companies.
  
  “Small and regional players have seen much faster growth than top manufacturers in recent quarters. As an example in one of the mass categories, it was found that three-fourths of category volume growth in 2016 was contributed by only one manufacturer -- and it is unlisted,” said a Nielsen spokeswoman, adding the top 30   manufacturers contributed around 55% to total FMCG last year. Nielsen didn’t name the company as per its policy.
  
  Finance minister Arun Jaitley had announced several incentives on farm infrastructure and credit for rural and low-income consumers in the February budget, measures that could revive consumption.
  
  “There are clear signs of rural recovery, which had got derailed last year because of demonetisation,” said Abneesh Roy, senior vice-president at Edelweiss Securities.
  
  “Measures to improve farm incomes and expectations of a normal monsoon are indications pointing towards better rural demand over the next few quarters. This is in contrast to last three years when there was a lull.”
  
  Companies such as HUL and Dabur are also stepping up direct reach with demonetisation turning out to be a silver lining as companies streamline cashless credit transactions and widen product portfolios, experts said. 
