PANAJI: Taking a decision to support liquor traders affected by the Supreme Court’s order banning the sale of alcohol along state and national highways, the   on Wednesday slammed the BJP-led state government for not doing enough to protect the interests of the industry.

 Following a meeting of the Congress Legislature Party MLAs in the chamber of the opposition leader Chandrakant ‘Babu’ Kavlekar, the party urged chief minister   to provide relief to the affected retail outlets and bars by either immediately filing a review petition before the apex court or by denotifying national and state highways.
 
 “The government has now said that they will seek clarification on the Supreme Court order within 2-3 months. The state government should hurry to approach the apex court, rather than just sitting on the issue,” Kavlekar told reporters.
 
 The decision to support the liquor traders was unanimous. Congress state party president and Navelim MLA Luizinho Faleiro said the party was willing to support and cooperate with the BJP-led coalition government to resolve the issue.
 
 “It may be late, but the government of Goa must file a petition, declare all state and national highways as MDRs, denotify them and provide immediate relief. The relief can come today. They can also opt to pass an ordinance, but for this they must apply the legal mind. Liquor comes under concurrent list of the constitution, but when you come out with an ordinance, it cannot supersede the central laws,” Faleiro said.
 
 Congress argued that the   is deliberately resorting to delays as it’s trying to create an atmosphere of prohibition in the state. Party leaders questioned the government’s contradictory statements on the issue, saying that while Parrikar promised to give relief to the liquor traders, the administration has yet to provide any succour. “In states where the BJP government is there, no review petition was filed. Does that mean that they had agreed in the beginning not to challenge the petition? If so, this is wrong. After mining, this issue will also hurt families. The government should take this seriously. This is injustice,” Kavlekar said.
 
