PUNE: Unidentified persons have duped an   here of Rs 40 lakh within a few minutes since its purchase manager responded to a fake email address prepared by them seeking payment. 

 The entire amount was transferred to   located in Norway and Lithuania from a bank here between November and December 2016.
 
 The 40-year-old female purchase manager of the private electrical company, who is a resident of Senapati Bapat Road, had immediately approached the Chatushrungi police station. Police feared that the suspects had resorted to   to dupe the Pune-based company.
 
 The case was in the investigation stage. An FIR was registered against some unknown persons on Wednesday.
 
 Inspector UB Shingade of the Chatushrungi police station told TOI that the woman complainant works with the company that manufactures electronic devices for the Indian market.
 
 The company procures electrical products and raw material from companies in Taiwan and other countries. After placing the orders, it transfers money to those companies by using online payment facilities.
 
 “The orders are placed and accepted through emails. While making such transactions, each company uses its official email address. In November, the electrical company had placed an order for spares with a Taiwan-based firm. The   receive an email from the Taiwan company, demanding payment of Rs 40 lakh against spare parts,” Shingade said.
 
 “The complainant did not realise that it was a fake email. Somebody had prepared almost an identical email address, explaining details of spares and cost. However, there was an addition of an alphabet in the email address. The complainant failed to spot it. The colour of the website the Taiwan company uses and its telephone numbers were copied exactly,” Shingade said.
 
 “As soon as the finance department of the Pune-based company transferred the amount to the bank accounts as mentioned in the email, the cash was transferred to some other accounts. It is suspected that these bank accounts did not belong to the Taiwan company.   of the bank accounts revealed that they were located in Norway and Lithuania,” he added.
 
