In-flight magazines, aircraft safety cards and pillows are passé. Beach-bound flyers with itchy fingers are now walking off the aircraft with a different kind of souvenir — life jackets. The idea is to save money on renting one while chilling out on the beach.

 “We generally see our life jackets missing on flights bound for beach locations,” says Rashmi Soni, V-P of Vistara, the JV airline of   and  . The sun-and-sand destinations Vistara flies to include Goa, Port Blair, Kochi and Mumbai.
 
 The airline has asked its maintenance personnel to check and ensure there’s a life jacket under every seat whenever a plane is being prepared for a flight over water from all destinations. Sources say people walk out with life jackets for using them on the beach. Once the holiday is over, they can be conveniently deflated and packed to be used for the next beach vacation. Life jackets sell for anywhere between Rs 1,400 and 1,600 online.
 
 While foreign airlines have long admitted facing this problem, officials of domestic carriers say it is now becoming increasingly common in India. But few want to go on record. “We have not observed any item missing except the in-flight magazine which is sometimes picked up by passengers. These are replaced every month on the aircraft,” said S K Shany, Air India’s senior AGM (catering).   spokesman Tushar Srivastava said, “Besides good memories, a few passengers who really like our in-flight magazine choose to carry it with them as a souvenir.”
 
 A senior pilot of an Indian carrier points out that theft of life jackets is yet to be seen as a serious issue in India though it could make the difference between life and death in an emergency. “Airlines here are still not open about what goes missing from planes and what is okay to take — like magazines or pillows — and what is not. They do not want to offend their loyal flyers,” he adds.
 
 In many foreign countries, passengers have been arrested for it. Two years back, the cabin crew of a domestic flight in the US noticed a man stuffing life jackets in his carry-on. The airline informed the police who seized the life jackets and arrested him. Last year, a Chinese woman was fined in Hong Kong for stealing a life jacket from a Cathay Pacific aircraft.
 
