Passengers frequenting   have known it for long, now a survey com missioned by   ways has confirmed it.

 It is official, yet again, that Chennai Central, one of the biggest in the country, is nowhere near the top when it comes to cleanliness. The station may not be littered with garbage like the bylanes next to it, but it is filthy. Compared to last year's rankings, the station has tumbled down from 121 to 184 in a survey of 407 stations. The ratings of other stations in   are not any flattering either (see chart).
 
 The survey results make the flaws as obvious as the corrective measures required. For instance, Central has scored only 40% in platform cleanliness and 30% in maintenance of parking areas. Drinking water booths and prevention of water stag nation have got 65%-70% given that the roof leaks if it rains briefly. Last week, garbage on the side of platform 11 caught fire due to the heat. Officials have not been able to find a solution to the solid waste generated nor the rodent menace that feeds on it, although latest technology is available.
 
 Despite its importance, Central is not even the cleanest A1 station in the state. Coimbatore trumps it on almost all counts.
 
 In comparison, Visakhapatnam has scored 99.19% on platform cleanliness and 50% in parking area cleanliness. It has secured 20% more in water stagnation in stations as compared to Chennai Central (69).
 
 Chief public relations officer of  , which maintains Visakhapatnam, said the circulating area is cleaned six times a day , mopped regularly and the glass panels are cleaned once everyday. Workers are counselled about cleanliness on a daily basis and around 80 staff are deployed per shift. For rodents, burrows are targeted regularly.
 
 Divisional railway manager (DRM) of Chennai division,   acknowledged that the authorities have to work on a continuous mode of cleaning that would create a better perception among passengers. “We need to find out what is it that the passengers associate with cleanliness,“ he said.
 
 A senior official in the zonal headquarters said round-the-clock cleaning has to be efficiently supervised by officials. “Due to poor parcel management (boxes are strewn across the concourse) the platforms are not being cleaned by scrubber machines. Food parcels are also a reason for the rodent menace. all factors are interlinked,“ the official said. The   could be roped in for technology to kill the rodents, he said.
 
