PUNE: Age cannot wither this   college  , nor can long hours of work.

 At age 70, Vasant Wagh has been putting in 8-10 hours of work daily in his pursuit of bringing out the largest encyclopedia on nanotechnology in Marathi.
 
 His desire is to compile a   (encyclopedia) in the native language so that even an auto-rickshaw driver or an average milkman or a student from rural areas, who can’t speak or understand the Queen's language, can grasp the nuances of nanotechnology. For this, he has been coordinating with 50-odd experts.
 
 After the Government of Maharashtra decided to create a Vishwakosh in about 40 subjects in Marathi, Wagh was made the coordinator for the nanotechnology project. “Knowledge boards have been set up for all the 40 subjects with one coordinator per subject. I work with about 50 experts but this number keeps changing as we keep inviting experts from various fields of nanotechnology to write for us,” said Wagh.
 
 Wagh also makes sure that the written word is easily comprehensible. “There are many books that describe various concepts. But our aim is to make it as easily understood as possible without losing out on the correctness of the content. Our aim is to make nanotechnology accessible to everyone. All this will also be uploaded on a dedicated website by the Government of Maharashtra,” said Wagh. The entire project will take another 2-3 years to be completed.
 
 Wagh was the second longest serving principal of the   after Wrangler Paranjpe. “I joined Fergusson College as a teacher of physics and went on to become the vice-principal and then its principal. If physics is my passion, then students and teaching are my twin loves. I have always been approachable even as the principal and hence students still remember me no matter where in the world they are,” said Wagh.
 
 A typical day for Wagh starts at 6: 30 am followed by a 45-minute walk at Sarasbaug with his wife. He starts working on the project at 10 AM. “I work for 8-10 hours every day. This includes talking to experts, mailing them, editing the content, sending the content for fact checking etc. The Internet has sure made all this work easy as we don’t have to go anywhere physically to do all this,” said Wagh.
 
 Wagh also conducts training workshops and guidance seminars free of cost for students. “The   in Nanded is the parent organisation for my work. The best part is people want to share their knowledge and hence whenever I have asked them to write anything, nobody has ever asked me how much they will be paid or even said that they can’t because of their busy schedule. That has been an amazing experience,” said Wagh, who was also the first director of Board of College and University Development of the Pune University (now Savitribai  ) when the post was created for the first time after the then new Maharashtra Universities Act came into existence in 1994.
 
