PUNE: Most election offices on Tuesday   as political parties pulled out all stops to tamp down any rebellion.

 A total of 777 nominations were withdrawn as election offices became virtual political offices wherefrom senior leaders “managed” rebels and independents.
 
 A war of words had broken out at the   office, between BJP leader Ganesh Bidkar and Ravindra Dhangekar, who recently joined Congress. Dhangekar was denied a Congress nomination over a technicality. Both leaders and their supporters, turned up at the election office in the afternoon. Arguments soon broke out between the two factions and police had to be called in to control the situation. 
 
 Even at the Tilak Road office, BJP and NCP leaders were involved in heated exchanges. 
 
 Senior BJP leaders are confident that the rebellion was quashed, and that no one will go against the party’s official candidates. 
 
 The party has been wracked with dissent from its cadre, who claimed that the leadership preferred ‘imported candidates’ and senior leaders’ relatives to loyalists and workhorses. 
 
 Among the BJP workers who withdrew nominations on the last day was Jyotsna Sardeshpande, who had initially planned to contest as an independent after being denied a ticket. Satish Bahirat was another, who withdrew his nominations after BJP leaders assured him that he would be taken care of.
 
 Bahirat was one of the dissenters, who took exception to being sidelined for Reshma Bhosale, who had joined the BJP at the last minute. 
 
 Meanwhile, a senior NCP leader took a dig at BJP, saying workers from his party were cooperating with each other, and that there is no unrest over nominations. “This should ensure we win,” the leader said. 
 
 A tantalizing contest is on the cards as BJP, enjoying power at the state and Centre, is looking to dominate local politics as well. The NCP, meanwhile, winner with a brute majority in the last two elections, will not give up power without a fight. The ruling party has joined hands with Congress for the elections while BJP, after talks failed with  , will pair up with the Republican Party of India.
 
