LUDHIANA: Even though two months have gone since demonetisation came into effect, the   and   in the industrial city showed no sign of picking up.

 According to figures released by district transport office, the sale of two and four wheelers (including passenger and commercial vehicles) in December 2016 has tumbled to mere 6,253 which is half the vehicles sold (12,512) in December 2015. This is an alarming situation for city’s automobile dealers who even after launching various discount schemes and offers are receiving no response from prospective buyers.
 
 The statistics also revealed that the sales registered in December 2016 are also the lowest in same month in the last five years. District transport officer (DTO)   said, “During December 2016, a total of 6,253 vehicles were sold in Ludhiana which is the lowest ever in month of December since the last five years. The number of vehicles sold in December 2015 was 12,512 while in December 2014 it was 18,605,” Kalsi said.
 
 He added, “A similar trend was witnessed in November 2016 when 6,828 vehicles were sold as compared to 15,937 sold in November 2015.”
 
 Amandeep Singh, owner of a two-wheeler dealership, said, “This is the worst situation for us. Whether it’s scooter, motorcycle or car, the sale of every kind of vehicle has touched rock bottom. The situation is a direct outcome of demonetisation which has left people short of cash and moreover a large number of those people who have enough balance in bank accounts are also avoiding to buy vehicles because they are panicky as they are afraid that some more new laws will be enforced in the coming days.”
 
 Swapnil Sharma, an employee dealing in car finance at a bank, said, “Despite low rate of interest on car loans and easy processing, we are receiving very few queries. The vehicle sales are showing no sign of picking up even after we have made some very good discount offers. We are anticipating that the situation will improve in the coming days, but as of now it is very worrisome.”
 
