PALWAL: A three-and-a-half-year-old   was rescued by a forest department team on Thursday afternoon from Krishna Colony, a residential area near Old Railway road in  .

 The big cat, which forest officials said had possibly hid in a truck and managed to reach Palwal, entered the compund of a   and took the stairs towards the  . It was first spotted around 7am. A 20-member team of forest and wildlife department, equipped with traps, tranquillizers, rescue vehicles, etc, along with 250 cops, rushed to the spot.
 
 The cops cordoned off the area and instructed residents not to panic. However, a mob kept following the wildlife officials — uploading videos and pictures of the leopard on social media — while the big cat ran around in the narrow lanes.
 
 With help of a tranquillizer, officials succeeded in rescuing the animal after five hours, though a forest guard got injuries on his back and head in the process, and had to be rushed to Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital in New Delhi.
 
 By then, panic had gripped residents of the area. Amit, a resident of Krishna Colony, who was first to spot the leopard, told TOI, “Two neighbourhood kids first spotted the leopard on the stairs of our terrace, and thought it was a monkey. But I realised it was a big cat, as it was almost 6 feet long. I raised an alarm and called people from the neighbourhood.”
 
 Neighbour Manish Vashisht recounted, “It was extremely scary to see a leopard climbing the stairs of our house in broad daylight. I’m thankful to authorities and cops who reached in time and saved my family members, who were in the house at the time.”
 
 Vasavi Tyagi, district forest officer (Palwal), who led the rescue operation, said, “Thankfully, there was no attempt by locals to attack the animal. It was a tough operation as the area is densely populated, and the leopard hid behind bushes. However, we’re glad the animal has been rescued safely.”
 
 According to the forest department, the leopard might have come from the Shivalik hills on a truck, as the nearby habitats — Aravalis and the Yamuna — are some 25km and 15km away respectively. “What’s mysterious is that Palwal is far from the Aravalis. There are some warehouses and godowns near Krishna Colony, so it’s possible the leopard hid itself in a truck coming from Saharanpur in UP and reached Palwal. It’s unlikely it came from Yamuna or Aravalis, which are far enough for it to not venture out,” said M D Sinha, conservator of forest (Gurgaon circle).
 
 Shyam Sunder, district forest officer (wildlife), agreed, saying, “The leopard has a lighter coat than ones found in the Aravalis. It’s possible it arrived on the back of a truck. Had it come via Yamuna, we’d have got a few reports of leopard sightings from villages on the way, but it was only spotted all of a sudden on Thursday morning.”
 
 The wildlife department veterinary surgeon who conducted a medical examination of the big cat declared it completely fit and healthy. “There’s not even a scratch on the leopard’s body. As it has been given a tranquillizer shot, it will take some time to regain consciousness,” added Dr Ashok. He added the big cat weighs about 55kg.
 
 Meanwhile, forest officials informed that the leopard will be kept under observation for 12 hours and then released.
 
 Located about 60km from Gurgaon, Krishna Colony and adjoining areas in Palwal have a population of over 15,000.
 
 
