MUMBAI: Almost five months after Egyptian national   left Mumbai after shedding 330 -kg from her once 500kg, 5-foot-wide frame, she died at 4.35am on Monday at   in Abu Dhabi due to cardiac arrest. Burjeel's doctors told TOI she was fine until Satur day, but rapidly deteriorated due to an infection in her blood stream.Eman, 37, described as the world's heaviest woman before her surgery , left Mumbai on May 4 after a public spat between her sister and doctors at   who took care of her for 82 days. Eman Ahmed had multiple organ dysfunc tion syndrome in her last few hours, said Dr Nehad Halawa, head of ICU,   Hospital, Abu Dhabi. “She suffered septic shock due to bacteria in her blood from a recurrent urinary tract infection. This time, the bacteria were very aggressive and affected all her organs, including the kidneys and heart, and was followed by a cardiac arrest in the last stage.“

 The news of Eman's death shocked the local medical fraternity as well. While there is always a question mark over the long-term health of morbidly obese patients who weigh over 300kg, frequent videos released by the Abu Dhabi hospital showed Eman making progress: she could raise her once paralysed right hand, unscrew a bottle, feed herself, and celebrate her birthday . “I am depressed. I was operating when someone rushed to tell me she was no more. It was sudden,“ said ba riatric surgeon Dr Muffazzal Lakdawala.
 
 The team at Mumbai's Saifee Hospital, led by Dr Lakdawala, had operated on Eman on March 7 and brought her medical parameters to “normal“ levels, but resigned after her sister   alleged “poor care“.
 
 Shaimaa, who was by her side from the time Eman was flown in from Alexandria to Mumbai in February and later shifted to Abu Dhabi in May , spoke to TOI later on Monday . “All I can say is Eman is in a better place now. She improved day by day since she moved to Burjeel,“ she told TOI. “The doctors did their best, but suddenly in a moment everything changed. We are taking her back to Alexandria tomorrow (Tuesday). I cannot imagine life without her, but what more can we do now than pray for her?“ Eman, who turned 37 earlier this month was joined by her mother and her niece for the celebrations at Burjeel, where she was housed in Room 528 on the fifth floor--a sprawling 93 sqm wood-panel led suite remodelled with an extra-wide double door.
 
 Eman had shown several signs of improvement in the last few months after her incredible journey in cranes, planes and trucks from Alexandria to Mumbai to Abu Dhabi, even as she remained caged in her own body . She was shifted to Burjeel from Saifee on May 4.
 
 Doc saddened by patient's demise
 
 Throughout February and March, Eman Ahmed would greet her surgeon, Dr  , with a salute and a smile. It is this image of a smiling Eman that the doctor wants to treasure. “She had so many health problems, but she was ever smiling. She had enough faith in me to let me take care of her,“ said the doctor as news filtered in about Eman's demise.Saddened by the suddenness, Dr Lakdawala said he had forgotten the ugliness attached with Eman's departure from Saifee Hospital. The 82 days of healthcare she received in Mumbai had helped her survive better, he said. 
 
