It’s not common to see cyclists in a metro city like Kochi and it’s even rarer to see women riding bicycles. Except for a few girls going to school, the habit of using cycle to commute is yet to catch up in the city. However, all that might change soon.

 Recently, when the participation list of a quarterly cycling event in the city was announced, it consisted of a good number of women and no, they aren’t just students. From college girls and techies to dancers and singers, women from all walks of life are taking to cycling. Kochi Times pedals along:
 
 
 
 
 Haripriya Panicker, a classical dancer, took to cycling three years ago, at a time when Kochi hardly had any serious female cyclists. “I’m not from a family that encourages girls to ride cycles. It was a bit awkward at first but soon, I started taking part in races, and the experience gave me a kind of liberated feeling.” Haripriya says that cycling has improved her health. “It improved my confidence, stamina and attitude. Even my immunity levels have gone up and I have been a regular in the circuit since 2013.”
 For Priya Surendran, a techie, cycling offers weekend rejuvenation and fitness break, when she rides with her fellow women cyclists. “I started cycling a year ago. There are a few social media groups of   and our cycling routes vary from scenic to adventurous spots. Some of the frequent routes are Kadamakkudy, Container Road and Fort Kochi. It’s an extremely rejuvenating experience,” she says.
 
 
 
 
 A women   is not quite like a men’s team of riders, both in the way they ride and the experiences they encounter. Sumangala Pai, who is part of a women’s cycle club, says, “It’s been almost a year since we formed our group. We ride differently from men in many ways. For instance, men cycle quite fast than women. We comparatively prefer pedalling at a slower pace.”
 
 The lone rides have also made them quite self-reliant. Sumangala adds, “We have learnt how to handle a few technical issues on our own, since we started the all-women ride. A flat tyre or a saddle issue are hardly a trouble for us now.” The most interesting part is something else — peaceful loo breaks. Anitha S, a cyclist says, “When you go for long rides with men, this is often a challenge as a loo break isn’t a big deal for them. A comfortable, clean loo is a common, important concern when we ride with women.” Sumangala says that families are often happy to invite   on loo breaks, home. “I remember an instance in which a daughter and mom in Perumbalam were happy that we stopped by near their place for a break. We enjoyed their warm hospitality and that was the highlight of that ride,” she recalls.
 
 
 
 
 Finding a confident woman driver on the road isn’t something our society is cool about, yet. In such a situation, it’s anyone’s guess the kind of prejudice faced by women cyclists. Cyclist Simi, who runs a music school, says, “Our roads are not safe enough for cyclists, let alone female cyclists. Buses don’t slow down or respect cyclists on the roads, especially on slopes. You can’t afford to be careless even for a minute. Being someone who doesn’t enjoy walking, I, however, cycle whenever I can and look forward to it too.” According to Haripriya, bad condition of roads, gutters, street dog squads, dust… all of this stop many women from taking up cycling.
 
