PUNE: While synthetic part   for damaged joints in the body are commonplace these days, orthobiologics is the way of the future, experts said on Saturday. With this form of treatment, a patient’s body parts can be clinically regrown and put in place of the damaged part. Innovation in this treatment has grown by leaps and bounds over the past three decades across the globe, they said.

 Orthopaedic surgeon from the US, Gary Gartsman, who is in the city to attend the   on Saturday said, “There was no shoulder arthroscopic surgery when I began my practice around 35 years ago. Ultrasound and   (MRI) only came in about 15 years ago. So the biggest challenge before that was proper diagnosis”.
 
 “Now, with MRI we can pinpoint the exact problem, and with arthroscopic surgery we only make a five-millimetre incision to operate on the patient and replace the arthritic shoulder component with an implant,” the shoulder surgeon said. Speaking to TOI, Gartsman said that the future of such treatment lies in stem cell therapy and platelet rich plasma treatments that come under the field of orthobiologics.
 
 “Bioregrowth of body parts is currently experimental, but it may replace surgeries for joint replacement entirely in the next 10 to 15 years,” he told TOI. At present, however, one major innovation in the field of joint replacement is the reverse shoulder surgery, wherein the position of the ball joint and the socket holding the ball is interchanged.
 
 Shoulder specialist and joint replacement surgeon Ashish Babhulkar from the Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital said, “The reverse shoulder greatly helps patients in cases when muscles needed for full movement of the joint are also damaged. The reverse shoulder takes advantage of other muscles that are still functional around the joint, and helps regain movement”.
 
 Between 650 and 680 joint replacement surgeries are conducted at DMH every year, of which 60 to 80 are reverse shoulder surgeries. 
 
 The first such surgery in the country was also conducted at the same hospital in 2010, Babhulkar informed. The next innovation in this direction is the total Unic surgery, he added.
 
 Gartsman and Babhulkar spoke to TOI on the sidelines of the Shoulder Conclave 2017 event in the city. The biennial two-day event had 400 doctors participating from across the country as well as from Nepal, Bangladesh and Sri Lanka. During the event, among the various technical discussions, 8 live surgeries were conducted and remotely presented before the audience by various surgeons.
 
