KOCHI: Chief minister   clearly ruled out the possibility of converting   (Cial) into a public listed company at Cial's annual general body meeting ( ) held on Monday.The chief minister, who is also the chairman of the company's board, said that the demand to publically list Cial would not be in the company's best interest.

 The CM praised Cial for the operation results last year which recorded a revenue of Rs 473.63 crore.
 
 Including the revenues from Cial Duty Free and Retail Services Ltd, a company subsidiary formed last year to enhance the airport's   revenues, which amounts to Rs 256.62 crore, the aggregate turnover of Cial for 2016-17 stands at Rs 669.06 crore.
 
 Last year, Cial recorded an 8.77% increase in the aircraft movement and 15.06% increase in the passenger traffic at the airport. They witnessed a significant increase in the domestic passenger traffic that was recorded at 25.99%.
 
 Cial also recorded a 5.2% and 15.9% increase in the international and domestic cargo movements, respectively. Board of director's mem ber M A Yusuffali said Cial was involved in several projects such as opening of new international terminal (T3) and flyover this year. Proper planning and operations helped Cial to maintain profits.
 
 The CM also mentioned about the 450-km-long inland waterways project running through Kerala, which is set to be implemented by Cial by 2020, while speaking at the event.
 
 “Once this project is implemented it will help tou rism and cargo transportation in the state. I am happy to say that the survey for the project has begun,“ said the CM. The meeting was also at tended by minister of agriculture   and water resources minister Mathew T Thomas.
 
 Over 1,000 members from Cial's 18,600 shareholders were also present at the meeting. During the AGM, the concerns raised by shareholders were directly addressed by the chief minister .
 
 He brushed aside several requests put forward by shareholders, including staff discount on food facilities, discount of flying fares and waiver of parking fee for the company shareholders, by stating it as impractical.
 
