RANCHI/DUMKA: Over a dozen protesters, including women, were injured when police resorted to lathi-charge during a   conducted by   in Godda on Sunday.

 However, the opposition and government agencies have issued contradictory statements regarding the conduct of affairs at the public meet. Heera Lal Chouhan, Godda SP, said the public hearing for environmental impact assessment (EIA) was held peacefully and it was only towards the end that some miscreants resorted to stone pelting on villagers who were returning home.
 
 “DSP Baban Singh was injured in the stone pelting and police had to fire tear gas shells to disperse the crowd,” the SP said.
 
 Contradicting the statement, JVM-P MLA Pradeep Yadav and JMM central general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya said the entire public hearing was stage managed and villagers began protesting from the beginning itself. 
 
 “Nearly 100-150 people were brought from Bhagalpur to participate in the meet, to which the local people protested. Though outsiders were removed, villagers raised slogans against the company and government’s coercive technique to evacuate them from their land,” Bjattacharya said.
 
 “Police resorted to lathi-charge within the premises of the public hearing,” he added, sharing the video footage of the incident.
 
 Amritanshu Prasad, chief of corporate communications for Jharkhand, Adani power, claimed the EIA hearing was peaceful except during the last few minutes. “Villagers raised concerns about the usage of ground water. We clarified that water will be taken from Chir river and a huge reservoir will be constructed,” Prasad said.
 
 Asked if there were protests by villagers, Prasad said there was some conflict between the villagers and the police. He asserted villagers were happy with getting four times the set price of Rs 12 lakh per acre for their land and were also happy to invite Adani to their village.
 
 Protesting the misuse of government machinery in getting forged EIA clearance for Adani, JVM chief   and party general secretary Pradeep Yadav have decided to sit on a day-long fast on Monday. “We demand that the public hearing for EIA be scrapped immediately and a fresh hearing be conducted without use of force by police,” Yadav said.
 
