KOLKATA:  , this year, ended on a sad note what with the demise of veteran actor Dwijen Bandopadhyay. Known for his work on stage, television and movies, Bandopadhyay succumbed to a massive heart attack on September 27 just five days after he had turned 68.   lost a favourite comrade before Saptami celebrations could even begin. Bandopadhyay is survived by wife Sumita and daughter Kankabati.

 Not only as an actor of movies like ‘Jaatiswar’, ‘Autograph’, ‘Chander Bari’, ‘Jekhane Bhooter Bhoy’, ‘Phoring’, ‘Hercules’, ‘Prem By Chance’ and ‘Benche Thakar Gaan’, ‘Bhalobashar Bari’, serials like ‘Labonyer Sansar’, ‘Jokher Dhon’ and ‘Chuni Panna’, Bandopadhyay had a big contribution on the Bengali stage. Along with Debasish Majumder, he had helmed the group called Sudrak. Later on, he started his own group called Sangstob. Theatre-lovers remember him for ‘Mallabhumi’, ‘Gunodhorer Oshukh’, ‘Ei Ghum’, ‘Mushtijog’, ‘Sundor’, ‘Amitakkhar’, ‘Ghora’, ‘Abhimukh’, ‘Dashchakra’, ‘Samabartan’, ‘Nilam Nilam’, ‘Balidan’ and ‘Gazisaheber Kissa’.
 
 Following his demise,   took to Twitter to share her condolences and wrote: “Saddened at the passing away of veteran actor Dwijen Bandyopadhyay. Condolences to his colleagues and family.” Other political leaders also took to social media to mourn his sudden demise. Surjya Kanta Mishra, secretary of Communist Party of India, tweeted: “Thespian Dwijen Bandyopadhyay will be remembered by generations. My sincerest condolences.”
 
 Many of his followers in the theatre world remembered how for his stellar performance in ‘Balidan’, Bandopadhyay was conferred the West Bengal Natya Academy Award. “Bapi ( ) was moved by his performance in ‘Nilam Nilam’. He largely depended on him too and went on to share a bond that lasted for close to three decades,” says Chatterjee’s daughter Poulomi Bose.
 
 It therefore doesn’t come as a surprise that many of Bandopadhyay’s memorable stage acts, including ‘Prantapasya’, ‘Pranayama’, ‘Nilkantho’, ‘Tritiyo Anko, Otoyeb’ and ‘Sobjanta’, were alongside Chatterjee. “He had the blend of profound knowledge of the medium and technical skill of quite a high order. This comes from long experience and exposure. Soumitra babu and he shared a unique personal bond of mutual trust and dependence that added to their onstage chemistry. Probably that is why Soumitra gave him some very significant roles in his plays. His demise has forced us to strike off another name from the list of actors with a great mix of experience, knowledge, vision and talent,” says director Atanu Ghosh, who worked with him in the telefilm ‘Antarale’. Director Srijit Mukherji’s tweet referred to his directorial debut ‘Autograph’ where he had got the opportunity to work with Bandopadhyay.
 
 According to Bose, Bandopadhyay had an “unparalleled level of performance and unique comic timing”. “He deserved much more than what he got. But he never sought publicity and was way above all this. Being a very well-read and learned gentleman, it contributed to his understanding of characters,” says Bose, who had shared the stage with Bandopadhyay during his last stage-appearance in ‘Sobjanta’ on December 30, 2015.
 
 After the eye donation procedure was completed, his mortal remains were taken to Academy of Fine Arts before the final journey to the crematorium. Director Sudeshna Roy, who along with Abhijit Guha have worked with him in a hit megaserial titled ‘Labonyer Sansar’ and several telefilms and movies, remembers Bandopadhyay as a journalist from Jugantar Patrika, who taught drama at the Rabindra Bharati University and was committed to the arts. “Despite suffering a stroke and being detected with Alzheimer’s last year, Dwijen-da had the will to bounce back to work. He was recovering and had shot a few scenes for our ‘Benche Thakar Gaan’ last April. He also did a photoshoot for the film. That was perhaps the last film he had shot.”
 
 Guha sums up the   well saying: “Few actors can effortlessly traverse between the niche world of theatre and the popular domain of serials and films. Dwijen-da could do that with so much of ease. By doing so, he proved that for a powerful actor, the medium is never a constraint.”
 
 On October 8, a memorial service will be held at the Academy of Fine Arts.
 
