Mumbai: Leading   agency J Walter Thompson India (JWT) is undergoing a culture change to usher in   of thought with a few bold decisions — from lateral hiring of non-advertising talent to ‘blind recruitments’ for fighting unconscious biases.   India, which has grown at 21% in 2016, is also doubling its planning department strength in keeping with the changing and disrupting business models of client companies. In addition, JWT may also look at acquiring a data analytics company.

 In an exclusive interview with TOI, Tarun Rai, CEO, J Walter Thompson South Asia, said, “With so much disruption, what our clients are looking for is sound strategic advice. They are looking at us to help provide business solutions rather than just an ad campaign. In fact, JWT is credited to have invented the planning function. JWT, already, has the largest team of planners in the country and I want to double our numbers in the planning function.”
 
 JWT is looking to ramp up its strength in planning to around a hundred.
 
 Sanjiv Mehta, MD & CEO, Hindustan Unilever, a client for JWT, recently spoke to TOI about the changing business models in a VUCA world. VUCA stands for volatility, uncertainty, complexity and ambiguity. Mehta said strategic plans were now being drawn on a weekly basis. Similar changes are being brought about by other client companies.
 
 Given that diversity of thought boosts creativity and out-of-the-box thinking, JWT’s decision to hire talent from outside advertising is tied in with the requisite need to cater to changing client requirements. “I have asked our HR department to always first look at talent outside the advertising industry when hiring. We want diversity in capability and we need to start from our hiring policies,” Rai said.
 
 In 2016, around 24% of the hires across South Asia were from outside of advertising agencies. In addition, the agency witnessed several ‘homecomings’ across South Asia, with 23% hires in JWT India last year falling in this category. “We have so many people coming back and that’s an excellent sign,” said Rai. He added, “For me, one of the most important signs of the health of an organisation is its attrition levels. When I joined (back in 2015), our attrition levels were at an alarming 44%. Today, they are down to 21%. Out of this, half would be planned and the balance unplanned. We have got our swagger back.” The average attrition in the ad industry is said to be much higher.
 
 JWT India has also freed up employees from geographies. People are no longer restricted to a certain territory of work and are encouraged to travel to other cities where JWT has offices. For instance, Senthil Kumar, JWT’s chief creative officer, currently works out of Bengaluru, although the agency’s headquarters is in Mumbai. He travels extensively.
 
 While such moves would bring about agility and growth, to deal with unconscious biases JWT plans to launch ‘blind recruiting’ in June across all the South Asia offices. Here, candidates will be judged purely on their competencies. Their names, gender, educational backgrounds and other personal details that can create a bias will not be revealed. “It has been successfully launched in our New York and London offices. We intend to scale it up in a phased manner over the next several months as this needs a paradigm shift in the way line managers look and react to candidate profiles,” said Roopa Badrinath, chief talent officer (South Asia), JWT.
 
 Rai said, “Generally, people end up hiring people like themselves. In many cases, this is because of the unconscious biases people have. The purpose of ‘blind recruitment’ is to eliminate any unconscious bias at the time of evaluating candidates for a particular position.”
 
 
