PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The   has opposed the plan to continue work on the stalled water pipeline project from Pavana dam to Nigdi saying residents of 70 villages would have to drink polluted water from Pavan river if it goes on.

 This comes just ten days after   mayor Nitin Kalje announced that he would work for the implementation of the stalled 36km project by taking farmers in Maval taluka into confidence.
 
 Pune district president of the sangh, Shankarrao Shelar, said that if Pimpri Chinchwad gets water from closed pipelines, very less water would be in Pavana and the villages would have to drink ‘gutter water’. The agriculture land in the taluka would also get lesser water, Shelar said.
 
 There was major opposition by farmers to the pipeline project, which was initiated in 2008 by the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation ( ). The state government stayed the project after three farmers lost their lives in a police firing during a major agitation in August 2011. The project was under the Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission at a cost of around Rs 400 crore to reduce water loss due to evaporation and percolation. 
 
 “The population in Maval taluka, including Talegaon and Vadgaon, is about 6 lakh. There is major urbanization in Maval belt because of the growth of industries in Urse and Bebadovhal, particularly because of the Pune-Mumbai expressway. The population is going to increase in four to five years. As Pimpri Chinchwad citizens are getting a minimum 150 litres per day, people of Maval should also get that much water. Currently, people in the taluka are getting only 40 litres a day,” Shelar said.
 
 PCMC draws a total of 450 MLD (million litres per day) water for the twin township.
 
 Besides Pimpri Chinchwad, water from Pavana river is also supplied to MIDC industries in Wagholi, Kesnand and Hinjewadi village and IT park, he said. Earlier, the sangh had held a meeting of 68 villages that have approved resolutions to oppose the  . 
 
 PCMC can lift raw water from the Ravet bund on Pavana river as it is not polluted, Shelar said. 
 
 Incidentally, 10MW power is generated from Pavana river, which would not happen if PCMC gets water from closed pipelines, Shelar added.
 
 The Maharashtra Water Resources Regulatory Authority (MWRRA) had given a conditional approval to the PCMC in May 2012 to start work on this project. However, the state government has stayed it, civic officials said.
 
 
