AURANGABAD: The proposed work of laying underground power cable network in the city as a part of the central scheme has hit the wall with local civic body and the state power utility sparring over digging charges.

  ( ) has asked Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited ( ), Aurangabad circle to pay digging charge worth Rs 2,500 per meter.
 
 The state power utility, however, has frowned upon such hefty charges.
 
 Taking strong objections to rates sought by the local civic body, the MSEDCL authorities have argued that overall cost towards such charges is exceeding the infrastructural cost. 
 
 “We are paying Rs 1,600 per meter for the underground cable in Aurangabad and therefore it is not feasible to pay Rs 2,500 per meter for digging alone. The digging charges are disproportionate and need to be rationalised considering the proposed work is for the benefit of public,” Suresh Ganeshkar, chief engineer of MSEDCL, Aurangabad circle said. 
 
 The underground laying of power cables and other important works are being executed under the   (IPDS), a special initiative by the Centre that aims to strengthen the electricity network in urban areas. 
 
 Dinesh Agrawal, superintendent engineer with Aurangabad urban circle of MSEDCL, said, “Roads measuring around 19km in length need to be dug in the first phase of IPDS. The total length of roads to be dug will increase further during subsequent works of the central scheme. We will end up paying several crores towards digging if we pay the amount demanded by the local civic body.”
 
 As announced earlier by MSEDCL authorities, high voltage power cable of around 15km length and low voltage cable of nearly 419km would be laid underground as a part of the action plan for smart city project. 
 
 The work of laying power cables is important since overhead high-tension and low-tension electricity cables are hanging very low in many parts of the city, especially old city limits. 
 
 When contacted, K D Deshmukh, additional deputy engineer with electrical department of AMC, said, “Rates for digging of roads were fixed considering the damage and subsequent repair that might occur at different spots.”
 
 “The city has a slew of newly constructed cement roads and asphalt roads in some parts of the city. The hue and cry raised over city roads by people has come down following conscious efforts on our part to improve the road condition. The digging charges were thus fixed considering all pros and cons,” he said.
 
 The issue of digging charges of roads was also raised during the monthly meeting of district electrification committee held on Wednesday, which was chaired by local MP Chandrakant Khaire. It was decided in the meeting that the top officials from both public authorities would hold another round of talk to resolve differences over digging charges.
 
 MSEDCL authorities said that they were also considering the option of repairing of roads post-digging and paying only around 5% supervision charges to the local civic body. AMC authorities said they were ready to review digging charges if necessary. Let the MSEDCL implement IPDS first. We are ready for talks,” the civic authorities said. 
 
