AHMEDABAD: When Vimala Joshi, 54, visited an oncologist for the first time, she was diagnosed with a   in her neck and pelvic region. 

 Despite chemotherapy, the lump recurred and after thorough diagnosis, it was found that the cancer primarily originated from the ovary and secondarily from the kidney. 
 
 Had her tumour been properly diagnosed at an earlier stage, the chances of curbing the spread would have been greater.
 
 Joshi’s case is among the many cases of cancer wherein lack of timely action and early diagnosis led to severe complications.
 
  “Half the cancer patients have a better chance at recovery and can also minimize the risk of its recurrence, provided it is diagnosed at an early stage. Lack of awareness and ignorance of symptoms often lead to cancers going undetected in early stages, especially among rural population,” said Dr Geeta Joshi, deputy director, Gujarat Cancer & Research Institute (GCRI).
 
 According to statistics of the   (NCR), the incidence of cancer among men and women in the age group of 35 to 60 years in Ahmedabad, is the highest. In fact, more than 40% of cancer cases in males in the city are  . 
 
 In 2012-14 period, 5,477 cases of cancer were reported in males, of which 2,198 cases were of mouth, tongue and lung cancer.
 
 “Among these, a particularly high incidence of mouth and tongue cancers indicate the increasing consumption of smokeless tobacco even in the urban areas. Several other factors such as oral hygiene, genetic factors as well as frequency and duration of consumption may also help harbour cancerous cells in the body,” said Dr Janmesh Shah, assistant professor, department of community oncology & medical records, GCRI.
 
 Similarly, more than 46% urban women in Ahmedabad were affected by breast cancer, followed by cervical and ovarian cancers. 
 
 Around 1,900 women were detected with either of these three types of cancers among a total of more than 4,000 cases in 2012-14. In a bid to tackle breast cancer, oncologists emphasize on regular self-breast examination and consult the doctor in case of any abnormalities.
 
 “The number of urban women coming for diagnosis at a later stage is certainly declining however, patient’s lifestyle is often critical. Moreover, the new trends indicates a changing scenario where women are diagnosed with breast cancer at a relatively early age. This often increases the complexity of both diagnosis and treatment and it is important to adopt a multidisciplinary approach in treatment,” said Dr Anagha Zope, a breast cancer specialist, Apollo Hospital.
 
