HYDERABAD:   undergoing regular   run a higher chance of  , making them vulnerable to either   (ADRs) or  , experts warn.

 The reason, they add, is rooted in a costly one-time blood test -known as Pharmacogenomic profile -which several cancer patients cannot afford.In the absence of this test, which costs anywhere between Rs 30,000 and Rs 3 lakh, oncologists are forced to resort to the 'trial and error' method while arriving at the right dose needed , experts point out.
 
 Roughly 95% of cancer patients undergoing chemotherapy or targeted therapy -an advanced form of chemotherapy where drugs attack precise cancer cells doing little damage to healthy cells -do not opt for the blood test. “It is true that the correct course of cancer treatment drugs, especially for those suffering from gastrointestinal (GI) cancers like colon cancer, is possible to ascertain through a Pharmacogenomic profile.
 
 Without this test, it is likely that they may take more drugs than required,“ said Dr Vijay Anand Reddy , director, Apollo Cancer Institutes. Not just GI cancers, experts recommend the blood test -to fix the right dose -for those battling lung and breast cancer too.
 
 But while acknowledging that using chemotherapy , may result in over treatment, Dr Suresh said the problem will continue to persist unless the cost is not cut drastically .
 
 The advantages for this test was, interestingly , the biggest talking point at the 7th edition of the Cancer Care, Education & Research Conference International (CancerCI-2017) workshop held in the city earlier this month. Experts agree that besides fixing the right dose, the profile also helps oncologists to eliminate chances of possible adverse drug reactions, a patient's tolerance level to a drug, drug effectiveness, dosage of various drugs or prescribing an alternative drug.
 
 “The current regimen of `one dose fits all' for chemotherapy treatment is not ideal for patients and is not cost effective ,“ said Dr Amit Dilip Bhatt, former faculty , Medical Oncology at CMC Vellore.
 
