NEW DELHI: The Enforcement Directorate conducted searches at three farmhouses allegedly belonging to  , the daughter of former Bihar chief minister and   chief Lalu Prasad and her husband Shailesh Kumar on Saturday in connection with a   case registered by the agency earlier.

 The three properties searched are located in Ghitorni, Bijwasan and Sainik Farms in Delhi. Both Misa and her husband have been questioned by ED officials for more than seven hours at their Ghitorni farmhouse. Shailesh was later taken to the Sainik Farms for further examination.
 
 The case relates to sale and purchase of shell companies that allegedly led to Misa and her husband controlling assets such as farmhouses and other properties that were acquired for a pittance. The transfer of assets through shell companies was facilitated by methods usually associated with hawala operations.
 
 The shell company was bought by brother Surendra and Virender Jain, alleged hawala operators, by paying Rs 100 per share valued at Rs 10. The money raised was used to buy the Bijwasan property and then the shell company was sold again at Rs 10 a share with Misa and her husband taking control of the firm. 
 
 “ED today conducted searches at the premises of Mishail Packers and Printers Pvt. Ltd at Bijwasan and the residential premises of its directors, Shailesh Kumar and Misa Bharti at Ghitorni and Sainik Farms in New Delhi in connection with   investigation. During searches various incriminating documents, electronic devices including mobile phones have been recovered and seized,” an ED press note said.
 
 The ED raids on the properties of Lalu’s daughter, a Rajya Sabha MP, comes a day after   had conducted multiple searches on the residence and office premises of the RJD chief and his other associates in a different case pertaining to contracts awarded to a private firm when Lalu was railway minister. While the CBI raids involved 12 locations across four states of Bihar, Jharkhand, Haryana and Odisha, the ED searches were restricted to Delhi.
 
 The ED action is related to a Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) case it registered against the Jain brothers, already arrested and in judicial custody. The shell company, Mishail Printers and Packers Pvt Ltd, was operated by the Jain brothers and owned the farmhouse searched by the ED on Saturday.
 
 A chartered accountant, Rajesh Agarwal, who was arrested by the ED in May in the same case, was found to be involved as a middleman for Misa and her husband in arranging “accommodation entries” from Jain brothers in lieu of cash provided to him.
 
 Accommodation entries are mere paper transactions provided by hawala operators who have several shell companies registered without any real business activity. Cash is deposited in the bank accounts of these companies and after multiple transactions cheques are issued to beneficiaries. The directorship of the shell companies changes later in the favour of beneficiaries.
 
 Bharti and her husband have been associated as directors in Mishail Printers and Packers Private Limited along with other shell companies which own Delhi farmhouses and other properties. The shares of Mishail Printers and Packers were bought during 2007-08 at a rate of Rs 100 per share by four shell companies allegedly operated by Jain brothers. These shares were later purchased by Bharti for Rs 10 per share.
 
 Mishail Printers and Packers Private Limited was first registered at 25 Tughlaq Road, which served as residence of Lalu Prasad for more than 12 years. In 2009-10 when Bharti bought shares of this company, the address was changed to the farmhouse in Bijwasan.
 
 Last month, the income tax department attached properties of several benami properties with market value worth over Rs 170 crore. The I-T department had named former Bihar chief minister Rabri Devi, her four children and a son-in-law under the Benami Transactions (Prohibition) Act as alleged beneficiaries of these dozen-odd benami properties in Delhi and Patna. Rabri Devi and her three daughters--Misa Bharti, Chanda Yadav and Rohini Yadav—besides son and Bihar deputy CM   and son-in-law Shailesh were named as beneficial owners of these properties.
 
 The ED investigation had revealed that cash was provided to Jain brothers by the chartered accountant allegedly on behalf of Bharti. The cash was deposited in shell companies by Jain brothers and layered through multiple transactions.
 
 
