BENGALURU: Top athlete and 400m hurdler  , who was part of the Indian squad in the last Asian and Commonwealth Games, was on Wednesday asked to leave the national camp after   (NADA) officials seized several vials of a banned drug from his bag kept in the hostel room at the National Institute of Sports (NIS) in Patiala. "The drugs (around eight vials) were seized from the athlete's bag during a check conducted on April 17. We have issued a provisional ban," NADA director general Navin Agarwal told TOI without revealing the name of the top athlete.

 Agarwal, a senior IPS officer who took charge last year, denied that the checks were conducted following a tip-off.
 
 "No this was not based on any leads but a ran dom check. The officials checked all the ro oms used by athletes at the NIS and found the drugs from only one athlete's bag," the DG added.
 
 Asked whether the drugs were procured from India, he said "All the drugs were of foreign origin and some of the labels read like Russian." "The sealed vials were tested at the laboratory and were found to contain the banned drug meldonium," he added.
 
 The DG also revealed that the suspended athlete had cleared a recent dope test. "He had undergone a dope test few weeks back but his sample returned a negative result," the top NADA official said. "The drugs were seized from Jithin's bag," sources confirmed to TOI. The 27-year-old athlete from Chalakkudy, one of India's best in the one-lap race, was part of the 4x400m relay squad that finished fourth at the Incheon Asian Games in 2014.
 
 A former athlete said it is also easy to sabotage an athlete's career as the NIS rooms used by the athletes mostly remain unlocked. "If someone wants to fix an athlete, then you can easily do it as three-four athletes share a hostel room and the doors are mostly kept unlocked. Some top athletes do lock up their bags when they are in the camp," he said.
 
 It is argued that meldonium, which got tennis superstar   Sharapova a ban of 15 months, stays in the system for nearly a year. "It's difficult to believe that a top athlete will consume meldonium and risk his career knowing fully well that it will remain in your system for many months. This looks like a case of sabotage," a top coach said. But Agarwal said the onus is on the athlete to prove his innocence. "It is up to him to explain how he came in possession of this banned drug. He will now have to argue his case before the NADA disciplinary panel," he said. As per the antidoping rules, an athlete who commits an anti-doping violation by possession of a prohibited substance may get a suspension ranging from one to four years depending on the athlete's fault. In certain cases, if the athlete admits an omission and can establish no significant fault, the panel may even take lenient view and let him off with a warning.
 
 According to sources close to the athletes, the search and seizure happened at the NIS when the athletes were away in training in Dharamshala. "The NADA officials conducted surprise checks again few days back and today early morning at the NIS," athletes said. "Jithin is now on his way back to Patiala from  ," they added.
 
 Meanwhile, a top Athletics Federation of India official said it will conduct an inquiry to find more details. "We have decided to speak to the coaches in NIS to get to the bottom of this incident," he said.
