BENGALURU: Teething problems in the implementation of   (GST) and subsequent orders issued by ministries and departments concerned have left consumers in the lurch. They are yet to   whose costs have come down under the new  .
A few individual traders and commercial establishments are allegedly not passing on the reprice benefit to consumers and are, in fact, found to be charging more in the name of GST. On July 4, the   of the Union ministry of consumer affairs issued a circular asking manufacturers and traders to affix the new maximum retail price (MRP) on packages of commodities after recalculating the new GST rates. For commodities packed before the launch of GST, traders have to affix two stickers -one showing the old rate and other the new one. Also, they aren't supposed to go by the the old price, in case the commodity has become cheaper.
 
 However, only a few traders are adhering to the new rules. Consumers have been complaining about many traders selling the commodi ties for the old prices and not passing on the benefit. Officials term this a “teething problem“, while stating that they have a system in place to punish those violating MRP wilfully.
 
 P R Shiva Prasad, Karnataka state legal metrology controller, told TOI: “Traders and the public are still confused about the pricing of packaged commodities. We want to give a leeway till the new taxation system settles in. However, strict vigil is in place and we will punish violators.“
 
 Violations (of MRP) are particularly rampant at film theatres and multiplexes which continue to follow the old practice of charging more than the price on the commodity . Sarala Nair, assistant legal metrology controller, said raids have been conducted and over 20 cases are pending before the consumer forum.
 
 “For instance, they used to sell a bottle of packaged drinking water for Rs 50 while the MRP is Rs 20. Raids are being conducted for the past two months and the strict vigil will continue in the GST regime too,“ she said.
 
 B T Manohar, chairman of taxation committee and team GST of Federation of Karnataka Chambers of Commerce and Industries, said it is consumers' responsibility to ask for the invoice in the proper GST format so that they aren't cheated by vendors.
 
 Many multiplexes like PVR and Gopalan Cinemas have been quick to migrate to the new system, even as others continue to be under the scanner.Lokesh, a duty manager at PVR Cinema, and Perumal, a manager at Gopalan Cinemas said they are complying with the new norms. “We are issuing GST invoices for non-MRP commodities such as coffee and beverages. People should note that our invoices distinctly mention the selling price and the tax components,“ Perumal said.
 
 
 
 
 The Centre has amended the Legal Metrology Rules to empower the department, allowing it to penalize MRP violators. This means the department can now, on its own, punish those involved in irregularities.However, the new rules will be effective only from January 2018. Currently, the department has no powers to penalize violators and can only book a case before the consumer forum.
 
 
 
 
 While traders and consumers are still deciphering the nuances of the new taxation system, wilful deception will defeat the very purpose of bringing GST into effect. Traders must pass on the benefits of reduced commodity prices to buyers and not tinker with pricing to suit their needs.Trying to subvert the system could land them in trouble, if not immediately then in the long run.Buyers too need to be more clued into the tax slabs and their applicability. This will help them seek what is rightfully theirs.While the clouds of confusion will clear with time, all stakeholders need to follow the rulebook to make GST a success.
 
