NAGPUR: Despite back-to-back defeats, 11-year-old   is leading the charge of city players at the halfway mark of the first edition   Masters International Chess Championship on Tuesday. The nine-round international invitational tournament for players above 1500 Elo points is being played at the Sharjah Chess and Culture Club.

 Alongside Raunak, three other players from the region — FM   and Sankalp Gupta from city and Amravati's Pawan Dodeja are taking part in the 10-day tourney. All the three players, however, have higher Fide rating points than Raunak.
 
 Raunak, however, maintained his top position among the four local players with three wins and two defeats. With three points Raunak is half-a-point above the three other masters from the region.
 
 In the fifth round action, city's youngest Fide Master Raunak, playing with the white pieces, was up against Grand Master Pichot Alan of Argentina, who at 2557 rating is 338 elo points above the city prodigy.
 
 Opting for the Kings Pawn opening, Raunak went down fighting to the Sicilian defence of his higher ranked GM after a 50-move battle. In the 6th round, Raunak will start with the black pieces against higher ranked Indian International Master P Shyaamnikhil on the 31st board.
 
 On the 63rd table, Amravati's Pawan Dodeja was held to a draw by his lower ranked Indian counterpart and CM  . A day after a heartbreak 74-move defeat against Germany's GM Matthias Bluebaum, Dodeja — 2235 elo points — made a comeback with a draw. Earlier in the second round, the 35-year-old Dodeja posted a victory over Sambit Panda and signed the peace treaty with Vijay Anand and Shalmali Gagare respectively to collect 2.5 points at the halfway stage of the meet.
 
 City's most experienced participant FM Akash Thakur (2363 elo points) fought back in the competition with two successive wins after the Central Railway employee had a disastrous start to his campaign in Sharjah. Having lost his initial two rounds against GM's Halkias Stelios of Germany and Argentina's Mareco Sandro respectively, Thakur drew his third round against WIM Pratyusha Bodda before prevailing over Shubham Shulka and Oman's CM Samil Issa Ali Shamas. The 34-year-old Thakur too is holding the fort with 2.5 points.
 
 14-year-old Sankalp Gupta too has made his presence felt. Having started his campaign with a draw against Indian GM Debashish Das, the city master surprised higher ranked GM   of France in the third round before getting the better of UAE's Al-Zaabi Sultan on Tuesday. Gupta, however, suffered defeats against his senior Indian mates IM GA Stany and GM Lalith Babu to collect 2.5 points after the five rounds.
 
