Abu Road: Prime Minister   on Sunday urged the   to channelize their large network of centres and volunteers to supplement government’s efforts in the areas of renewable energy, nutrition and health as well as ushering in a cashless economy.

 Inaugurating the 80th anniversary celebrations of the Brahma Kumaris at their campus in Abu Road by video conferencing from New Delhi, Modi lauded the institution for working with unity and dedication over eight decades to spread the light of India’s spiritual knowledge all over the world. 
 
 “Brahma Kumaris have more than 8,500 meditation centres all over the world. This large network and volunteers can be used to bring about major change in the country by the year 2022 when India will be celebrating 75 years of independence,” he said, addressing more than 6,000 prominent persons from India and abroad who have gathered for the four-day celebrations, 
 
 Noting the extensive use of solar power by the Brahma Kumaris, including a 1 MW solar thermal power plant set up by the institution and using solar steam cooking systems to prepare up to 30,000 meals three times a day, Modi said India had set the target of producing 175 giga watts of energy from non-fossil fuel sources by 2030.
 
 “Under the leadership of the Brahma Kumaris, we can bring about an energy revolution and a revolution in human lives,” he said, urging Brahma Kumaris to spread awareness about LED bulbs to help reduce the country’s dependence on fuel imports. He also asked the Brahma Kumaris to ask their volunteers to use the   app and help small traders in their locality do the same in order to speed the transition to a cashless economy.
 
 “Women volunteers from the Brahma Kumaris can aid the government’s immunisation programme to ensure a healthy future for the millions of children who otherwise fall victim to serious illnesses,” he said. He also suggested that the institution launch an online certificate course on nutrition about which there is little awareness in the country. All universities in the country could be made a part of this effort. 
 
 Earlier in the day, senior BJP leader L K   led a host of luminaries in paying tribute to the work of the Brahma Kumaris. “Brahma Kumaris was the only institution of its kind in the world that had been founded and expanded by women. “Just as the mother plays the key role in a family, women have played the main role in the growth of the Brahma Kumaris,” Advani said.
 
 Rajya Sabha’s deputy chairman P J Kurien lauded the Brahma Kumaris for serving society and setting an example of women’s empowerment. “The progress of the country should be measured by gross domestic happiness (GDH) and not gross domestic product (GDP). The Brahma Kumaris were contributing to India’s GDH.”
 
 
