HYDERABAD: A month after a group of men posing as CBI officials fled with over 40 kg of   from   here, the company started clearing customers' dues on Saturday.

 However, many did not seem to be happy as the net weight of the gold was being counted instead of the promised gross weight. Moreover, the company staff made it clear that they will first settle dues owed to customers who are willing to take cash. Those who prefer to take gold will have to wait until March.
 
 “The finance company officials gave me two options - one, to consider the net weight '2,605 per gm) and take the money or wait for three months to get new ornaments,“ said  . “Right now, I don't know what to do. I have pledged about 200gm of gold and if I consider the net weight, I will lose a lot of money. And, if I wait, what if the finance company goes back on its word and doesn't pay me anything? As of now, I haven't made any decision on whether to take money or not,“ Rao added.
 
 Meanwhile, many customers have started taking money in the place of pledged gold fearing that they might not get anything if they wait till the end.
 
 “I pledged ornaments worth about '80,000 and they are offering '2,620 per gram. As I have some dues pending with them, they offered '37,000 as the settlement amount. After several negotiations, the amount was raised by '4,000,“ said  , who pledged about 50 grams of gold with Muthoot.
 
 “Although, they said that they will start giving gold in a few months, I couldn't trust them any longer. Because of this settlement, I lost about '30,000,“ he added.
 
 On the other hand, few customers said that they are ready to wait until March to get their gold back.
 
 “If I take the money, I have to bear the making charges and other costs if I buy gold again. Instead, I prefer to wait till March and take the ornaments instead,“ said Srinivas, who also pledged gold ornaments with the company.
 
 It may be recalled that six persons posing as CBI officials had carried out one of the biggest heists at Muthoot's RC Puram branch on December 28.
 
