CHENNAI: A 19-year-old   from   employed at a firm in Tirupur died when she was trapped between a moving Express train and the platform at the   on Wednesday evening.

 The deceased woman was identified as  , a native of Sonitpur district in Assam. She fell down when she attempted to board the moving Chennai to Howrah Express train at 4.20pm. Some passengers waiting at the platform and a Railway Protection Force (RPF) policeman attempted to rescue the woman after she got stuck underneath the moving train.
 
 Witnesses told the RPF police that Momin was stepping into the unreserved compartment and apparently one of the co-passengers pushed her hand away with which she was holding the railing at the compartment entrance.
 
 Subsequently, some passengers pulled the emergency chain in the compartment and tried to help the injured woman. However, a doctor travelling in the same train examined her and declared the woman dead. The passengers’ anger turned towards the co-passenger who allegedly pushed her hand off the railing. They nabbed him and later handed him over to the RPF officials at the Ennore station. The man who was later identified as Bhutto, 21, is also a native of Assam.
 
 Railway officials inquired into the issue and the RPF officials informed the government railway police at the Korukkupet railway station. To resolve the issue, they registered Momin’s death as an unnatural death and set Bhutto free.
 
 When passengers waiting at the railway station to board the EMU trains bound for   and Gummidipoondi heard about this, they gheraoed in front of the RPF police station. Some protesters turned violent and attacked the police station pelting it with stones and bricks. Spotting the mob, the police scattered from the place fearing for their lives. In this attack, some of the furniture, accessories and flower pots were damaged. Some of them attacked Bhutto also. However, police said no one was injured in the attack.
 
 On information, senior police officers from the RPF rushed to the place and conducted inquiries. As more police mobilized at the station, the mob dispersed. The express train left the railway station leaving Bhutto behind at the police station.
 
 Preliminary inquiries revealed that at least seven people all hailing from Assam and   boarded the train at Chennai Central in a reserved compartment in the train. As the Train Ticket Examiner (TTE) noticed them travelling without the reserved train ticket, he insisted they get down at the Ennore railway station to get into the unreserved compartment. The train stopped briefly at the railway station and started before all seven passengers got into the train.
 
 Meanwhile, a team of police led by the sub-inspector Kumudha of the Korukkupet GRP police station registered a case under the Section 174 (unnatural death) of CrPC and sent the woman’s body to Government Stanley Medical College Hospital for autopsy. The Korukkupet police didn’t register any specific case for the ransacking of the RPF police station in Ennore railway station.
 
