PATNA: The   set up by the Upendra Maharathi Shilp Anusandhan Sansthan at the Bihar Diwas pavilion at Gandhi Maidan drew huge crowd on the concluding day on Friday.

 “The artisans did a business of Rs30 lakh during the three days of the celebrations. A live demonstration of tikuli art, terracotta art, wood and stone crafts at the venue evoked interest and curiosity among the youth about the traditional arts and crafts of Bihar,” said sansthan deputy director Ashok Kumar Sinha.
 
 “Bihar has is huge treasure of arts and handicrafts which very few people know about. I learnt the process of stone carving at the live demonstration stall. I was surprised by the precision of the sculptor who was carving a miniature elephant,” said Rahul Kumar, a Class XII student of St Anne’s High school, Patna City. 
 
 Geetanjali Choudhury, a tikuli artist who was performing live at the stall said, “One has to keep abreast with the latest trends in the market for acceptability with the present times. An artist must be able to juggle with traditional and modern forms of art. More than 600 people watched the live demonstrations about the tikuli, stone carving, wood and sikki crafts.”
 
 Saddam Hussain, who had come from Kaimur to participate in the fair, said, “The Kaimur silk saris were appreciated by the people who had come from across the state to celebrate Bihar Diwas. I did a business of Rs1 lakh in the past three days. I am looking forward to the next year celebrations.”
 
 Ranjeet Kumar, who makes decorative articles out of bamboo, said, “Bihar Diwas was a good opportunity for the artisans to showcase their products and skills in making traditional handicrafts of the state.”
 
 A homemaker from Kankarbagh Colony, Sangeeta Kumari said she bought home decor items and dress material from the various stalls. “I like the bedsheets and pillow covers with appliqué work. We Should buy products from the fair which is organized in the city from time to time to support the artist and promote the traditional arts and crafts of Bihar,” she said.
 
 The visitors also enjoyed sumptuous food and street food like ‘litti chokha’, kulfi and various other delicious items at the food stall set up by the Bihar State Tourism Development Limited, a BSTDCL official said.
 
 
