PUNE: His was the face emblazoned on banners and posters with an appeal, “Your vote for a   candidate is a vote for me“. Chief minister  's attempt to drive a personal connect with the voters highlighted a trend set by BJP where politics revolves around a single leader. The “me“ factor stands vindicated in the backdrop of the BJP's win in a majority of municipal corporations in the state. And Fadnavis will be credited for single-handedly galvanising support for party candidates, leaving no scope for other star campaigners like the Pawars and Thackerays to make their mark. Fadnavis had his task cut out for him in the NCP-dominated Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad. He had to manoeuvre a gameplan for the BJP, which lacked a strong local leadership in both municipal corporations. In Pune, BJP was wholly dependent on two factors -Fadnavis's campaign and the party's well-knit grassroots network. In Pimpri Chinchwad, the CM was the only credible face of the party, which was packed with NCP leaders who had switched loyalties. He also had to pacify warring factions within the party in both cities.

 Such was the success of Fadnavis's first round of campaigning in Pune that party leaders clamoured for an encore. He obliged and campaigned with vigour during the second round, deftly accepting advances and setbacks. One rally was a particular embarrassment when empty chairs greeted Fadnavis at the venue. But at the end of the day , he managed to project himself as the tallest leader of the state BJP .
 
 An RSS insider lauded Fadnavis for his stellar oneman show. “ A city which has eight MLAs and a representative in the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha should not even have bothered to get the CM to campaign,“ he said.
 
 Scribe and political observer Abhay Kulkarni said the municipal elections have established Fadnavis as a mass leader in the state. “He was initially ridiculed as a leader from Vidarbha. His opponents also said that he had become chief minister thanks to Modi. But he has proved his ability to take the masses along with him,“ he observed.State chief Yogesh Gogawale also offered praise. “Fadnavis was a major factor in the party's victory in Pune,“ he said.
 
 The NCP campaign was led by its president  , who recently completed 50 years in electoral politics. Pawar held a series of meetings in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad and closed-door meetings with various stakeholders to try and ensure the party's victory . His campaign targeted not just BJP but also Fadnavis.
 
 While Pawar remained the pivot of the NCP's campaign, it was his nephew, Ajit Pawar, who toiled at the grassroots level. The junior Pawar campaigned at the basic ward levels as the stakes were high for him there. On the other hand, Sharad Pawar's daughter Supriya Sule was not too visible during the campaign.
 
 For the  , Uddhav Thackeray was the only star campaigner. But his concentration on the campaign in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad was limited as his prime focus was the Mumbai elections.“The Sena knew it was not going to gain power in either city, so there was no point in keeping Uddhav engaged here,“ a party leader said. Uddhav's cousin   made his appearance during the final phase of campaigning at a public meeting in Pune. But that was not enough.
 
 The Congress campaign remained lacklustre, despite the involvement of three former chief ministers. The response to their public meetings was unenthusiastic. Interestingly , Congress and NCP avoided joint campaigns despite having an alliance for a majority of seats in Pune.
 
