BENGALURU: The office premises of the director general and inspector general of prisons (DG-IGP) witnessed tense moments on Monday when in one fell swoop, both the No 1 and his deputy were shunted out of office.

 DG HN Sathyanarayana Rao and  , at loggerheads with each other over alleged  , usually attend office in uniform. But on Monday , both officers were in plainclothes.
 
 Rao arrived first around 11.30am and immediately held a meeting with prison officials. The meeting ended around 12 noon and at 12.20pm, all staffers, including the receptionist, were summoned to his chambers.
 
 Meanwhile, Roopa arrived and went to her office on the second floor. An hour later, her husband Munish Moudgil, who is managing director of  , dropped in. Carrying a small bag, the IAS officer hurriedly stepped into his wife's chamber.
 
 Around 1pm, news of   broke out. Some of Rao's staffers who had been working with him for the past 25 years, had tears in their eyes. Rao, who is due to retire this month-end, has been asked to go on compulsory leave.
 
 “This means Rao will retire without a post. What a humiliation for a man who served the department for 32 years. He will not even have a farewell parade,“ one of his staffers said. The 1985-batch Karnataka cadre officer turns 60 on July 22.
 
 According to the staffers, Rao shook hands with each of them and wished them good luck. “We were standing in line and shaking hands. One official put his head down as he had tears in his eyes. Rao placed his hand on the officer's shoulders and said that police duty is full of insults and unwanted gifts,“ a staffer said.
 
 Soon after, the Tumakuruborn officer walked to the entrance and waved to his staff before stepping into his vehicle. The scene was a little different as Roopa left office much later. Mediapersons mobbed her and police officials surrounding Roopa gently pushed them away, requesting them to not to ask questions. In the hustle, the equipment of some TV cameramen was damaged. Roopa quickly got into her vehicle and a split second before closing the window, said, “No comments“.
 
