New Delhi: As if illegal   manufacturing modules in Meerut, Munger and Madhya Pradesh were not enough, such factories are now being unearthed in UP and the bordering areas of   as well. 

 A number of factories are apparently being run within the 200km radius of the capital. Last month, the eastern range police had busted one right on the Delhi-UP border. 
 
 The ease with which a criminal can procure a weapon is alarming, officers said. In the first six months of this year, the number of cases, seized weapons and arrests — all have gone up, the police data reveal. 
 
 Till June 15, around 468 weapons were seized. It crosses the 500 mark if the 37 weapons seized by the   in the last two days are added to it. In the whole of 2016, 301 weapons were seized. 
 
 Till June 15, 390 cases have been registered compared to 315 during the same period last year. 
 
 The uninterrupted supply of bullets is also worrying the police. DCP (Special Cell) Sanjeev Yadav said 180 cartridges were seized in the recent bust. While guns can be locally made, the bullets can’t be. They are illegally sourced from ordnance factories and authorised arms dealers, officers said. 
 
 Last year, the Special Cell had found Maoist links to these modules as well. The UP gangs were found lending carriers and logistical support in return of raw material and workers.
 
  In the past five years, the Khargone group from MP has spread its roots and surpassed the conventional hubs like Munger and Meerut. 
 
 “The demand for illegal weapons is high in Delhi. Gangs of outer, southwest and west Delhi buy them not only for their criminal activities but also to strengthen their land-grabbing rackets,” said a senior officer. 
 
 Besides phone calls, gunrunners even have a weapon-on-demand facility under which arms and bullets are available through text and WhatsApp messages. 
 
 The latter is preferred as the customer gets to see photos of the arms. He can even post the picture of a desired weapon for a replica. The buyers even get heavy discounts on bulk purchase and can take the delivery as per their convenience. 
 
