Thane: The Indian army is believed to have initiated the process of   of   against the three army clerks who are the prime accused of leaking the army exam papers along with the chain of coaching owners in the state. Whereas, five out of 21 accused have been remanded to police custody for two days. 

 A senior officer informed TOI that apart from the present investigation carried out by the Thane crime branch, a senior army personnel shall carry out the court of inquiry against the three hawaldar clerks -- Ravi Kumar, Dharamvir Singh, Nigam Kumar Pandey attached to Army Recruitment Office (ARO) Nagpur. 
 
 Parag Manere, the deputy commissioner of the police confirmed the development and informed that, “In the court of inquiry a tribunal is appointed wherein a senior higher ranking officer from the army particularly to investigate a matter like the present   and decide whether a court martial is warranted or not,” Manere informed. 
 
 On the other hand, a team camping at Nagpur have got major evidences against the armymen and following the seizure the investigators are expecting more breakthroughs which could unravel other secret aspects of the scam.
 
 “Our team has got the seized the official documents—SSC, HSC certificates and other educational documents of the 350 candidates which were confiscated by the accused. They will be sorted and given back to the owners soon and specifically the army authorities are cooperating well in the probe,” Manere informed TOI.
 
 Also, the accused had planned to play safe and hence never took the sim cards of mobile phones on their names. “While connecting the dots we found that a couple of other people from different parts of country are cropping up. The verification is underway and soon we shall get leads,” informed another senior police officer. 
 
 Meanwhile, the 21 accused arrested in the paper leak were produced in the special court of AN Karmarkar. The prosecution told the court that they have found that the prime accused, Santosh Shinde has earned a lot of property, but has no answer when questioned on the source of income. The defense counsels including advocate Satish Mistry prayed to court that no police custody is required of their client as the recovery has been done. 
 
 Karmarkar after listening both the defence and prosecution extended the police custody of five primes accused for two days and remanded other 16 to judicial custody.
 
 
