 is at her job again, this time trying to for a team against Oviya. The dance master discusses with  , Ganesh, Arav and Shakthi about Oviya questioning her late in the night about sending off Bharani from the house. Oviya had apparently asked about Gayathri raising concerns of women safety only after Ganja Karupu left house and why not before that. While there is a logical reason behind the question, Gayathri accuses Oviya of trying to instigate a fight with her. 
 
  
 Later, Gayathri is once again in conversation with Harathi and Raiza in the garden area with Oviya sitting close by. While she indirectly talk about Oviya to them and says there people who think criminally about evicting people from the house, she leaves the place when Oviya realises and questions her. Looks like Gayathri is worried about getting evicted soon and is seen discussing with Namitha and Snehan. As always she is also seen narrating different things every other time. She calls in Ganesh and Shakathi too and tries to explain about Oviya's behaviour. It is clearly evident that Gayathri is trying to form an alliance against Oviya and is trying her best get her evicted this week. 
  
  
 The housemates are given a task of 'Dance Marathon', where each contestant would need to dress up as 'Virumandi'   and dance for one of his songs assigned to each one of them. While Arav had gone to have a bath, he has left his mike outside, which was hidden by Raiza. While Raiza was punished for stealing the mic, Arav also was for being careless. The punishment was that the two should stay together always and that Raiza should be Arav's ears and mouth. What ever he to talk or hear should be Raiza. 
  
  
 After this, the housemates were given another task of expressing from their heart about what they have learnt in the   so far. In this Harathi, takes the opportunity to accuse all the housemates as fake since they are adjusting to stay in the house and not behaving as themselves. This doesn't go well with the housemates who are seen discussing the issue. Later Harathi tries to clear things saying she didn't mean to call everyone fake but just that they are not being themselves and are wearing a mask. 
  
  
 Meanwhile,   says he has changed a lot and will not get angry even after he goes home. He also opened up about how angry he had been at home and said he would be loving and caring from now towards his wife and children. 
 
 Will Gayathri's fight with Oviya heat up? Will the housemates clash with Harathi? Lets wait and watch!
 
