 NAINITAL: An RTI query by an activist of a Dehradun-based NGO has revealed that six former chief ministers of Uttarakhand have among themselves spent over Rs 13 crore till December 2016 on fuel, electricity, accommodation, travel, telephone bills and other expenses. The highest amount has been spent by   who has reportedly incurred expenses of more than Rs 3.7 crore in over a decade since he stopped being CM. 

 Expenses by former CM Bhuwan Chandra Khanduri in this regard amount to Rs 2.81 crore whereas N D Tiwari spent Rs 2.3 crore. This is followed by Rs 2.1 crore spent by Ramesh Pokhriyal, Rs 1.1 crore by  , and Rs 1.5 lakh by late Nityanand Swami. According to the RTI, Rs 1.25 crore was paid as salary to drivers of the CMs, over Rs 3 crore was spent on travel of the ministers to various cities, Rs 1.5 crore on salary to other staff and Rs 1.63 crore on fuel and maintenance of their vehicles among other expenses. 
 
 Electricity expenses of   Annexe in Dehradun, which was occupied by Pokhriyal and Bahuguna after they vacated office of the CM, amount to more than Rs 22.8 lakh, the RTI reply, a copy of which is with TOI, has revealed. Avdhash Kaushal, who runs the NGO Rural Litigation and Entitlement Kendra (RLEK), and filed the RTI seeking the details of expenses incurred by the former CMs, told TOI, "The money spent by the ex-CMs is public money and this reflects blatant abuse of power. Why should taxpayers pay for these expenses?" TOI had earlier reported that another RTI query by Kaushal had revealed that five former CMs of Uttarakhand had among themselves spent Rs 1.62 crore till March 31 last year on fuel and maintenance of their vehicles.
 
 Reacting to the revelations made in the recent RTI reply,  , a close aide of Pokhriyal, said, "These facilities were provided by the state government to the former CMs and are in accordance with the norms." Earlier on February 16, the Uttarakhand high court had directed the state government to calculate market rent for the period when government bungalows were occupied by former CMs of the state and submit its reply within two weeks. 
 
 Last year, the court had directed the ex-CMs to vacate their bungalows by February 15 following which Khanduri, Koshyari, Bahuguna and Pokhriyal vacated the government allotted houses. ND Tiwari who had sought time to vacate his accommodation recently withdrew his application saying that he had vacated his bungalow. 
 
