Nagpur: The National Research Laboratory for Conservation of Cultural Property (NRLCCP), Lucknow has taken up the work of conservation of about 200 personal belongings of Babasaheb Ambedkar. These belongings are now placed in the museum at Chicholi near Fetri, about 25km from Nagpur. The special chemical and other kind of conservation work is expected to improve the quality of life of all these personal belongings including clothes, metals, books, papers etc and enhance their life by at least another 100 years. Director general of NRLCCP, BV Kharbade, while talking to TOI, said that this was a very important and prestigious project for his institution. An MOU in this regard was signed between NRLCCP and the Nagpur Improvement Trust (NIT) in August 2015. The actual conservation work of the belongings actually began about a year back and has gained momentum recently. “About 30% of the work has been completed and the remaining work is now going on in full swing. Each and every belonging including all the clothes of Ambedkar, his belts, leather objects, metal objects, and every small thing will be treated with suitable chemicals and other conservation methods as per international standard,” said Kharbade. Kharbade was in city for a lecture organized by the Department of Ancient History and Archeology at the Nagpur University. He said that maintaining the objects will be an important process to be coordinated by local staff of the museum. “These objects can remain as they are for another 70 to 100 years if they are taken care of properly. They need to be kept in special exhibition cases. They also need to be maintained under specific temperature, humidity, light and heat. Maintaining the ambience is the most important factor for enhancing the life of these materials. Humidity is the worst enemy of any museum exhibit. However it is not very difficult to maintain the humidity if experts keep a regular watch on them,” said Kharbade. The whole process involves certain important steps like documentation, examination, diagnostic analysis and preparation of conservation and strategy and finally implementing the strategy scientifically at every moment. “Conservation is a continuous process as is deterioration. If given proper treatment and maintenance over time it increases the longitivity of the objects and gives them strength took. Books and papers require extremely careful selection of the preservatives which should maintain the quality of paper as well its colour and texture,” said Kharbade. The project is being locally coordinated by Neena Zilpe.