THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Chief minister   has clarified that the state government does not intend to strain the relations between the Centre and the state. The chief minister’s statement comes at a time when tension between the   escalated to the extent of affecting the  

 In the news conference held here, on Saturday, he said that however, in some matters, some of the policies pursued by the Centre were inviting criticism, which will be dealt politically. “When an all-party delegation was planning to go to Delhi, they denied permission to which we have registered our strong opposition. But apart from that, as two governments, the state and the Centre are sharing a cordial relation,” he said. 
 
 Regarding the controversy with regards to inviting Prime Minister Narendra Modi for inaugurating  , he said inauguration is a matter of propriety and he does not believe in trying to grab such opportunities. Citing the example of inauguration of IIT in Palakkad, he said that despite the Centre asking the state to go ahead with the inauguration, the state has responded that it would wait till the concerned minister at the Centre finds a convenient date.
 
 He said that with regards to Kochi metro, the state is still in communication with the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) for seeking the PM’s date. “Kochi metro project is a joint initiative of the Centre and the state and it would be most appropriate if the Prime Minister inaugurates the project. Any other thought will be explored only if the Prime Minister declines the invitation,” he said.
 
 The chief minister also rubbished all kinds of controversies. “The government has no intention to go behind controversies. Instead the government will do things that are useful for the state,” he said.
 
 Putting to rest the theories that the CPM was planning for a state-wide alliance with Kerala Congress (M), Vijayan clarified that the government will not intervene in the bar bribery case, involving KC (M ) leader K M Mani. He said that with regards to the local bodies, the CPM stand is to keep the BJP and Congress at bay. “The local alliance (at Kottayam) was made as part of this policy and this has been clarified by CPM state secretary  ,” he said.
 
 Finally, he termed the standoff between media and advocates unfortunate and something which should not have happened.
 
