LUCKNOW: An   officer of   was found   in mysterious circumstances on the road outside a government guest house -- hours after he turned 36 -- here on early Wednesday morning. As kin of the deceased officer have alleged foul play in the matter, police were waiting for opinion of forensic experts on post mortem report to decide the next course of action. 

 Anurag Tewari, the 2007 batch IAS officer, was posted as commissioner, food and civil supplies department in Bengaluru and was staying at the Meerbai Marg guest house since May 15. He was a native of Bahraich in UP and after a training at Mussorie’s Lal Bahadur Shastri National Academy of Administration, went to his native place on May 10 from where he reached Lucknow on May 15. Tewari was supposed to fly back to to Bengaluru on Wednesday morning.
 
 The postmortem report which TOI accessed to late on Wednesday evening added mystery to the entire episode with six injuries observed on officer’s body. Panel of doctors who conducted the autopsy examination stated that Tewari died due to asphyxia (deprivation of oxygen) but failed to specify the reason which caused the condition. 
 
 However, independent experts said that findings mentioned in the report point towards poisoning. Doctor Y K Pathak, former director of UP medico-legal cell said, “All the body organs inside the IAS officer were found congested. Thorough probes are required as it can be caused due to external poisoning, drug reaction, excessive consumption of alcohol or food poisoning.”
 
 Tewari was staying at Room No 19 of the guest house, booked in the name of his batch mate PN Singh -- a UP cadre officer posted as Lucknow Development Authority (LDA) vice-chairman. The two, after celebrating Tewari’s   on Tuesday night, stayed together at the guest house. 
 
 When Singh got up at 6.30am on Wednesday, he found Tewari missing from the room. He handed over the room’s key at the reception and left for Gomtinagar to play badminton, said police. Tewari, meanwhile, was found in a pool of blood, 100 meters away from the guest house on the road. 
 
 “It appears Tewari had stepped out for a morning walk and his health deteriorated suddenly. He collapsed on the road. A passer-by alerted police control room at 6.0am and he was rushed to Shyama Prasad Mukherji hospital. But doctors declared him dead upon arrival,” said Lucknow SSP Deepak Kumar. Police found some cigarettes butts in the room among other items.
 
 Anurag’s elder brothers Alok and Mayank, both engineers, arrived in Lucknow from Mumbai and Noida by Wednesday evening and were expected to give a complaint to Hazratganj police, where the incident took place.
 
 Waiting for the post mortem outside King George’s Medical University’s mortuary, Mayank told TOI , “I want an independent agency to probe the case as an IAS officer was present with my brother before he died. Honest and clean officers are being targeted in a selective manner in Karnataka and we feel Anurag was killed as he was in the middle of exposing a scam worth more than Rs 2,000 crore.”
 
 “Senior officials posted in civil supplies department kept harassing Tewari. His leaves were not sanctioned and he was also considering to change his cadre from Karnataka,” his brothers said. Tewari got divorced from his wife on March 1 this year after seven years of separation. Fissures emerged between the couple within a month of their marriage. 
 
 CCTV cameras are not installed at the guest house and police till late Wednesday were trying to ascertain exact sequence of events. However, as a lacerated wound was found on Tewari’s chin, and his lips were also found cut, police were struggling to find an eye witness to corroborate what exactly happened. Kumar said that copy of the findings would be shared with Karnataka government as Karnataka chief minister was monitoring the case.
 
 Tewari’s eldest brother Alok did not seem convinced with the police version of the sequence of events. “He was a bookworm and would study till 2 am. My brother never stepped out for morning walk and something seems fishy in the entire episode,” Alok said.
 
 Meanwhile, as news of Tewari’s death spread, a lot of IAS and IPS officers posted in Lucknow started gathering at the government hospital. Tewari’s friends from his engineering college in Gorakhpur and school in Bahraich too gathered outside the mortuary. “Last time when I met with him, we ate lunch sitting on the floor of my house. He had no qualms about it,” said Dhanendra Pathak, his schoolmate outside the mortuary.
 
 Police have kept Tewari’s wallet, his two mobile phones, and clothes in custody. Rs 5300 and debit cards were found in the purse. Tewari’s viscera had been preserved for further examination and to rule out poisoning. 
 
