Nagpur: With just 12 days left for the October 15 deadline, Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) veterinary department is yet to start the 20th All India Quinquennial Livestock Census, which was supposed to begin in July. The reason: delay by state government’s animal husbandry department in procuring tablet computers for enumerators to carry out the census. Conducted every five years, the livestock census is crucial to measure the increase in population of animals, which play a role in the economy. As part of the census, enumerators go door-to-door and count the livestock in each household. In all the previous 19 censuses, data was gathered following the traditional method of pen and paper. This time, the census was expected to be faster and more accurate than earlier, since instead of jotting down the number of animals in registers, enumerators were expected to use tablet computers for quicker collation of data. As per the state government’s directives, NMC was supposed to start the census from July 16 and complete it by October 15.  The Department of Animal Husbandry (DAH) had taken the initiative and developed web and mobile apps for the purpose. DAH was supposed to provide NMC with tablets. But since the DAH has failed to provide the gadget, NMC has not even started the census, confirmed a senior officer. The officer told TOI that the civic body was ready with a team of 100 statisticians and 20 supervisors for smooth conduct of the census. In the last census in 2012, NMC counted 93,775 livestock, including cattle, horses, pigs, dogs, rabbits, and poultry animals. According to the data of 2012 census, city had 13,837 cows, 11,377 buffaloes, 278 sheep, 19,548 goats, 18,220 pet dogs, 470 rabbits, 26,979 hens, 1,539 birds (including ducks), 1,427 pigs, 78 horses, and 22 donkeys. Deputy commissioner (DAH, Nagpur) Baba Vani, who is also in-charge of the livestock census, admitted that delay in carrying out the census is due to procurement of tablets. According to him, the census was delayed across the state. He claimed that the tender to procure tabs is in process and will be completed soon. According to him, new dates will be given for the livestock census.