PUNE: Global multi-brand retailer,  , is   for   in the district to set up 3-4 cash-and-carry stores. Foreign retailers dealing in multi-brand goods have permission to set-up only business-to-business (B2B)   on their own in India.

 The investment is expected to be around Rs 200-250 crore in the district. Last week, the retailer had signed a memorandum of understanding with the state government to set up 15 stores across the state at an estimated cost of Rs 900 crore.
 
 Multi-brand retailers do not have a licence to operate a business-to-customer store in the country all by itself yet. They can, however, take majority stakes in local retail chains. This has been a non-starter so far. Companies like Walmart are, therefore, trying to cash in on a growing retail market in India by selling to the millions of mom and pop stores as a one-stop shop for procuring their produce.
 
 “We are looking at   – we have plans to open 3-4 stores here. Our teams are identifying locations and we are happy to explore partnerships with landlords who are keen to partner. We prefer buying the land, but we are also happy to lease it,” said Rajneesh Kumar, senior vice president & head – corporate affairs, Walmart India.
 
 Each Walmart B2B store is spread across four acres and has a built area of about 50,000 square feet. Walmart operates 21 such stores in the country — most of them on a leased basis — across nine states and employs over 4,000 people directly.
 
 Kumar said each store has the potential to provide direct employment to 200-250 people and indirect employment to about 1,600 people.
 
 Once land is identified, Kumar said, it takes about 2-2.5 years to bring up a store. He said factors such as catchment of small stores, office and institutions and hotels, restaurants and caterers serve as an ideal input for selecting the location for setting up these “one-stop,” shops.
 
 Small kirana stores in the country – running into about 6 crore – have ferociously opposed foreign direct investment in multi-brand retail fearing loss of business. This led the incumbent National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government (then in opposition) to move a motion to oppose the previous United Progressive Alliance government’s decision to allow 51% FDI in multi-brand retail.
 
 It is now learnt that the NDA government is now considering to make allowance for 100% FDI in multi-brand retail with some riders, in a bid to create more jobs.
 
 For now, retailers like Walmart have to contend with B2B stores – which Kumar says is a “good,” business for the company.
 
 Walmart is also looking at Mumbai region, Nagpur, Solapur, Sangli, Akola, Jalgaon and Kolhapur as some of the places to set-up stores in the state. Nationally, the global retailer is looking to scale up to about 70 B2B stores in the next half-a-decade.
 
