NAGPUR: In perhaps the first example in the country, a federation of 104 community forest rights (CFR) villages from the region have netted Rs 9.8 crore this year towards advance sale of tendu leaves.

 The tender committee consisting of group of gram sabhas of 104 villages met on January 9 in Nagpur and sold over 15,000 standard bags of tendu leaves (each bag contains 1,000 bundles) as advance sale. The sales were conducted via offer to the bidders and actual harvesting would be done in April-May.
 
 Last year, 49 villages from Gondia (14), Gadchiroli (9) and Amravati (16) could fetch Rs 1.85 crore only. This was perhaps due to lower rate between Rs 3,700 and Rs 5,500 per standard bag. However, this year it fetched a rate of Rs 9,500 per bag with almost threefold increase in offer price increasing locals’ livelihood prospects.
 
 “Cluster of so many villages coming together to sell tendu leaves collectively is perhaps the first CFR model showcasing individual rights for sustaining livelihoods. More villages are joining owing to transparency,” said  , executive director of Vidarbha Nature Conservation Society (VNCS).
 
 The movement was started in 2013 with 12 villages. Now, 104 CFR villages have joined the group.
 
 “The biggest achievement is that villages are collecting tendu banning bush cutting and forest fires. By preventing fires, we regenerated 600 trees per hectare on an average,” Gode said.
 
 Apart from villages recognized in Gadchiroli, Gondia and Amravati districts, new villages joined the federation from Yavatmal and Nagpur this year.
 
 The entire exercise is being handled by 4 NGOs — VNCS (Nagpur), Khoj (Melghat),   (Wani), and Yuva Rural Association (Nagpur). These NGOs are facilitating the process by providing technical knowledge and capacity building of the institutions.
 
 In 2015, gram sabhas from Gadchiroli decided to manage tendu leaves under PESA and consented for ‘Option 2’ to sell these through government. Unfortunately, the produce could not be auctioned and villages did not get any benefit.
 
 “Hence, we decided to conduct the entire trade under CFR from 2016. This is a lesson learnt when people themselves could manage their tendu for sale owing to their institutional capacities,” said Gangadhar Meshram, chairman of group of gram sabhas from   in Gondia.
 
 Last year, the process was carried out by inviting tenders and e-auction too, but the traders failed to turn up. As a result, the material deteriorated due to rains and had to be sold at a low rate on per kg.
 
 “All this contributed to huge losses during the last three years. Yet, it did not deter locals and they continued doing this as their empowerment under CFR. Today, finally our struggle has borne fruits,” said   of Mangatola (Deori).
 
 When asked why the e-tendering process was not initiated, Pournima Upadhye of Khoj said, “It was purely the gram sabhas’ decision how to sell their produce and, hence, there is no issue of violation.”
 
 “We have set an ideal example of community-managed wildlife areas with forest protection for wildlife conservationists,” said Dhanraj Khewale of Gadchiroli.
 
