BHOPAL: Atif Muzaffar, the self-motivated ‘jihadist’ behind Bhopal-Ujjain passenger train blast, and his Uttar Pradesh-based module had more deadly plan up their sleeves as they had conducted a recce of Kerala and Rajasthan to carry out serial terror strikes, said police officials who interrogated him.

 “They visited Jaipur in Rajasthan and Kozhikode in Kerala in the past two months to identify spots where they can strike and also plan a safe escape after executing the job,” said a police officer on condition of anonymity. However, interrogators have not been able to ascertain this module’s specific motive behind ‘waging war against the country’. The officer said that they were self-motivated by internet materials, nothing else.
 
 Initially, some police officers suspected that they wanted to avenge the encounter of the alleged SIMI activists after their escape from Bhopal Jail on October 31 last year. But, despite repeated interrogation, Atif feigned ignorance about having any information regarding the jailbreak episode. He made it clear that “avenging that encounter was not on their minds”.
 
 “It is quite surprising that the young boys had nothing to avenge and just wanted to carry out random strikes across the country,” said another officer who was part of the interrogation team. Inputs have been shared with Kerala and Rajasthan police. ATS and counter intelligence units from these states are likely to visit Bhopal.
 
 GRP Ujjain had initially registered the FIR against “unidentified people” in the Bhopal-Ujjain passenger train blast case and then transferred it to MP ATS. Now, it is being transferred to  .
 
 Officials said that Atif had placed the timer pipe bomb on the train at Bhopal railway station itself. The explosion injured 10 passengers, three of them seriously, when the train was approaching Jabdi station in Shajapur district at around 9.40 am on March 7.
 
 Module members had boarded the   from Lucknow to reach Bhopal. Interrogation also revealed that the module’s plan was to blow up Pushpak Express. However, they failed to place the bomb because the train was full of passengers.
 
 Atif had formed the module a year ago. ATS arrested him along with Danish Akthar alias Zafar of Kanpur and Sayyed Mir Hussain alias Hamza at around 1.30pm from a bus near Pipariya in Madhya Pradesh’s Hoshangabad district on March 7. Mohammed Saifullah, who was cornered by Uttar Pradesh ATS and shot dead following an encounter inside a house in Thakurganj area on the outskirts of Lucknow, and Danish were his deputies. Danish, who had lived in Bhopal for a year doing petty jobs, knew the city well.
 
 After completing his Class X studies in Aligarh, Atif had joined AMU to pursue a course in leather and footwear design. After his father’s death in 2013, Atif quit studies and left home, telling his mother that he was headed for Delhi. His ‘jihad’ started in October 2016 after he killed a retired school principal in Kanpur. His father, HA Muzaffar, owned a leather factory. He has four sisters and an elder brother.
 
 “Mother wanted Atif to take over his father’s business, but her efforts proved futile. She told police that he had called her from two or three different numbers in the past two months. However, she didn’t respond thinking that he would return home. Atif, meanwhile, started his terror mission,” said an officer. Danish and Saifullah had also fled from home.
 
 Atif’s mother now fears social boycott owing to the ‘terror case’ against her son would throw a spanner in the marriage of her two daughters, said sources.
 
 
