NEW DELHI: The Centre came out in support of auto manufacturers on Monday, urging the Supreme Court to allow the companies to sell their existing stock of   vehicles even after Bharat Stage-IV emission norms come into force from April 1. 

 Appearing before a bench of Justices Madan B Lokur and Deepak Gupta, solicitor general Ranjit Kumar said auto manufacturers were earlier allowed to dispose of their stocks in 2005 and 2010 when new emission norms were made compulsory. He said manufacturing vehicles with the old technology was banned, not the sale of existing stocks. 
 
 He said the government had issued notification in 2015 but no one challenged the Centre’s decision and even Environment Pollution Prevention and Control Authority (EPCA) had not raised any objections. The motor companies are holding a stock of 8,24,275 BS-III vehicles, which includes 96,724 commercial vehicles, 6,71,308 two-wheelers, 40,048 three-wheelers and 16,198 cars.   in its decision said only   complaint vehicles should be sold from April as they were less polluting and emission of Particulate Matter (PM) would be reduced by 80% with the introduction of new fuel. 
 
 The Centre, however, challenged the decision of the Authority and raised question on its efficacy. “If EPCA is so concerned about the issue, it should have approached the government to bring change in its draft notification on BS-IV but it did not do so. The Authority was set up in 1998 and it has been working for the last 20-years but has environment in the national capital improved over these years?,” the solicitor general asked. 
 
 The court said the Centre could not pass the buck to EPCA on pollution crisis and it was also responsible for not taking enough steps to check deterioration in the capital’s air quality. Urging the top court to allow them to sell the existing stock of vehicles, senior advocates K K Venugopal and A M Singhvi, appearing for the manufacturers, said more than 19 crore old vehicles were plying in the country and selling of 8.2 lakh such vehicles would not make much of a difference. They said contribution to pollution due to these vehicles would be less than 0.01%.
 
