AHMEDABAD: Nothing proves better the unending appeal of  ,  , and Kishore Kumar than the fact that the local singers who emulate these legendary playback artists continue to draw full houses, even decades after the original singers have passed away. In fact, in many cases, the careers of these emulators have been running longer than that of their idols.

  As against the 36-year-long   - from 1941 to 1976 – the ‘Voice of Mukesh’, Kamlesh Avasthi, has been singing on stage for last 53 years. His journey began with participation in a cultural programme in university in 1964.
 
 After Mukesh passed away, he launched a show in his memory - Shraddhanjali. This show has found place in the Limca Book of Records for lasting for four decades. So popular has he been as Mukesh’s voice that Raj Kapoor made him sing all songs in ‘Gopichand Jasoos’ in 1982. He got a chance to sing in various other films too. The local civic body in his native town of Savarkundla has even named a road after him.
 
 City-based advocate, Mukhtar Shah, has been singing Mukesh’s songs on stage since early 1980s. For three decades, he has been so occupied that he cannot focus on his profession as a lawyer. “Earlier, I used to conduct nearly 200 shows in a year. Still, I perform in over 150 shows every year,” he told TOI while on his way to a London trip, where he is to perform for a week. He has performed in 24 different countries around the world.
 
 King of playback singing,  , sang between 1944 and 1980. Bankim Pathak has been singing his songs since 1969. He launched a show named ‘Ek Yaad Rafi ke Baad’ after the Bollywood singer passed away in 1980. This show still attracts audiences. “I haven’t noticed any ebb in enthusiasm and response from audiences even after so many decades,” he said.
 
 It has been three decades that Himanshu Trivedi has been singing Kishore Kumar’s songs. “Even in programmes where we are supposed to perform recent hit songs, after listening to a couple of new songs people end up asking for old songs from 1960s and 1970s,” he said, adding that the demand for his performances has just increased over the years. “I have got a tight schedule till August. I must be earning more than Kishore Kumar’s son Amit Kumar,” he jokingly said. There are near 40 singers like him in Ahmedabad, and all remain equally occupied, he added.
 
 The question remains why singing old hit numbers is so popular. Avasthi explains, “We are lucky to get the audiences. The credit really goes to the greatness of the original singers and composers.” It is more about nostalgia. “At a time when people have easy access to original music, it is expression and presentation that count during our performances. People become nostalgic and they keep coming to revive old memories.”
 
 For Pathak, it is the melodies in old songs that have kept them alive. “The singers were great, and compositions too were excellent. In songs that were composed later, the melody was missing,” he said.
 
 Shah said that they do not have to strive hard to fetch audiences also because there are various clubs that arrange programmes and the shows remain packed.
 
 Trivedi believes that people are drawn to performances also because the artists add value by undertaking research on compositions, instruments, original performers and films and interweave the information in their performances. He, however, is of the opinion that the craze for these three singers would not last more than another 10 years. “Most of our listeners are above 45. The old cinema songs in our performances help them reminisce the aura and charm of their youth and childhood. After a few years, the new audience would be keener to listen to songs from the 1980s,” he said.
 
 
