VADODARA: At first glance it would just look like a regular tiffin service. But this   started by   Mahendra Patel and supported by a group of NRIs, offers meals free to the needy in Anand town of  .

 For elderly and NRIs who can afford to pay, it comes at a token of Rs 2 – just to meet the transportation cost for the auto drivers who ensure that the tiffins daily reach to the doorsteps of all who have booked it. Patel and his group, most of them, who have crossed their 70s, have been running this service since last five and a half years. And among those who contribute for this service are not only NRIs spread across the globe but also Muslim brothers – Imran and Mehboob, who have continued their father late Nanumiyan Malek’s legacy of ensuring that 20 kg to 40 kg free fresh veggies reach at 7 am to cook the meals daily. 
 
 “When we had started with the first donation, we were supplying 51 tiffins in a day. Now, we supply around 300 tiffins on a daily basis. But money has never been constraint for us. After my friend Malek’s death, his sons have continued supplying vegetables free even if prices of vegetables in the market skyrocket,” says Patel, a professor who took voluntary retirement from a college in Mahudha town of Kheda district. 
 
 Interestingly, while the ‘weekly menu’ is fixed, patients suffering from diabetes, cholesterol, blood pressure and acidity are provided meals as per their medical requirements. 
 
 “We wanted to continue serving the nation and the best way to do it is to serve the hungry,” says Patel, 75, whose five daughters and son are settled in   where four of them are serving as CEOs in banking and pharma sector but the septuagenarian, stays in Anand to ensure that Shree Jalaram Jan Kalyan Seva continues its service from Kanya Shala number 2. 
 
  Like him, Ramesh Patel, 73, who retired as principal of Sardar Patel High School, Boriavi and his wife Dharmishtha – both American citizens - have the option to enjoy their retired life with US $ 2,000 as monthly pension apart from medical and transportation benefits. 
 
 “But it is here that we are actually needed,” says Rameshbhai, who hasn’t taken any day off even on the day he had undergone a glaucoma operation.
 
 “I regularly order for the tiffins as it is home-made food, hygienically prepared and is also meant for a cause,” says Texas-based Vitthal Patel, who despite a cook and a servant at his house, sends his driver to get the tiffin collected every time he pays a visit to his native. 
 
 If Virginia-based motel owner Shailesh Patel, having his roots in Tarapur town of Anand district, contributes at least Rs one lakh a year, Jagdish Patel, who is based in Lusaka, Zambia, ensures that spices worth Rs 80,000 are delivered at the shed where the meals are cooked. 
 
 Similarly, Mangla Karia, a resident of Vallabh Vidyanagar, since last three years, has been supplying 150 ‘kattas’ of branded flour while another resident of Anand supplies green grams worth Rs 60,000 every 12 months. 
 
 “The list of such donors is long. In fact, our monthly expense in running this service would come to nearly Rs 15,000 but we still have a fixed deposit worth Rs 12 lakh and that too without making any appeal for donations,” says Patel, adding that recently a NRI who had booked the tiffin for a week when he was ill, donated Rs 2.5 lakh cheque, before flying back to United States.
 
