Nagpur: Newly elected mayor Nanda Jichkar has appealed to all fellow corporators to work hard to serve the citizens. Deputy mayor Deepraj Pardikar and she took charge of their office at Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) Civil Lines office on Monday morning. Large number of public representatives, corporators and civic officials were present. “Voters have shown great faith in us. It is now our duty to solve the problems faced by them and make a name for ourselves. It is a great opportunity and we all should use it to the full. Corporators of all parties should work hard,” the new mayor added. “BJP has given a transparent government in the last ten years in NMC. The state and central governments too are working hard to serve the possible. The party had sought votes on this ground and voters reposed their faith in us. We are back in power for another five years. We must ensure voters feel they made the right decision,” she added. “I am thankful to the party leaders for giving me this opportunity. I had worked in the party organisation and then was given a chance to become a corporator and now the mayor,” Jichkar said. “Ruling party leader Sandip Joshi and standing committee chairman Sandip Jadhav both are office-bearers of BJP. Working with them will give an opportunity to work for the party too,” the mayor added. “BJP believes in rewarding those who work hard for the party. The party has now given me this important responsibility. I will do my best to carry it out. I will work with the cooperation of party workers, office-bearers and will seek help of leaders of other parties too,” Jichkar further said. “Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari and chief minister Devendra Fadnavis are working hard for the development of the city. BJP mayors and other office-bearers in the last ten years have done their best to serve the city. I will follow their footsteps and take the city forward,” the mayor said. Deputy mayor Pardikar thanked the party leaders for giving him the opportunity and promised to work hard for the development of the city. Outgoing mayor Pravin Datke described the works done by him in his speech. City BJP president Sudhakar Kohale thanked the party workers for their hard work for the overwhelming majority of BJP in NMC house. MLAs Sudhakar Deshmukh and Vikas Kumbhare, MLC Anil Sole and several former office-bearers of BJP were present.