JAISALMER: Students in schools of border areas don’t know who is the President or Prime Minister. Neither they have any knowledge of ‘Jana Gana Mana’— country’s national anthem, Republic Day and  . 

 In one hand, the state government is making efforts promote education and eradicate illiteracy and those schools in the border areas of Barmer and Jaisalmer still lag a far behind.
 
 Education is in utter negligence in Shahgarh, Harnau and Kishangarh villages as children here prefer to graze cattle over attending school. Most of the schools lie closed here. Only one school was surprisingly found open at Kharia Jethvi village near Bachiachod, 200kms from district headquarters. 
 
 In spite of having provision for senior secondary, the school conducts classes only up to fourth standard and total 47 children from neighbouring villages attend it. With two posts for teachers lying vacant for years, finally a teacher has joined some four-five months ago. This shocking revelation came when students were asked about study.
 
 A Class IV student Mubarak Khan (13) was asked the names of President and Prime Minister of India, and to utter surprise he couldn’t name any. He doesn’t know about the national anthem. Another student Sonu Khan (15) was asked to tell the name of Rajasthan’s chief minister which he couldn’t reply and being asked about the name of Prime Minister, his answer was  ! 
 
 Om Prakash, the only teacher who joined recently, said the school remained closed till he joined as there was no teacher. He has gathered students and started taking classes which, he thinks, will improve the number of students and quality of education. When asked about children’s unawareness of national anthem, the lonely teacher said they son’t understand it and he will try his best. 
 
 Shahgarh sarpanch said picture of education is in bad shape at Harnau, Shahgarh panchayats. More than a dozen schools are lying shut in Langtala, Shahgarh, Kharkhi, Leloi, Dorau etc. He has written to district administration highlighting the situation. 
 
 Similarly, many schools are closed owing to lack of teachers in Tanot and Kishahgarh areas.
 
 District education officer (Secondary) Mana Ram Meena accepted that due to lack of teachers, schools are closed and education level is quite low in border areas.
 
