Filmmakers   and Hansal Mehta lock horns over whether homosexuality qualifies as a social issue or not 

 The National Awards were announced in the Capital on Friday and like every year, this time too, it sparked off a debate on various issues. In a statement made on Friday, chairman of the jury, filmmaker Priyadarshan said, “While watching films, we realised that a lot of Bollywood movies were themed around homosexuality. They are not really highlighting social problems, whereas regional films were themed around fantastic social issues. They try to tell different stories. Even 'Dangal' doesn’t talk about social issues. It was a life story.” 
 
 Hansal Mehta, who directed the critically acclaimed film 'Aligarh' (which was based on the real-life story of Marathi professor Shrinivas Ramchandra Siras, who was suspended from his job on grounds of sexuality), expressed his displeasure on social media stating that he’s not irked about 'Aligarh' missing out at the National Awards, but at Priyadarshan’s comment on Bollywood movies themed around homosexuality. Talking to BT, he said, “Is the jury head saying that homosexuality does not qualify as a social issue? Secondly, is the statement a reflection of our times and does it reinforce the popular belief of the establishment? The only reason I am asking this question is because he has been appointed by the government to chair the jury.”
 
 Responding to Hansal’s comment, Priyadarshan said, “I can understand one or two films around homosexuality. How can there be that many films on the same subject? Homosexuality is more of a personal issue. Even if one considers it to be a social issue, it affects fewer people as compared to issues like droughts, famine, farmer issues, floods, environmental hazards and women’s safety. These are bigger problems at hand. A film like 'Pink' won because it addressed the women’s safety issue very well. It compelled the father in me to show it to my daughter because it had a strong message for girls. I’m sure others did that, too.” 
 
 Priyadarshan has also been quizzed about   being chosen as the Best Actor for 'Rustom'. He cleared the air saying that Akshay was chosen for both his films, '  and Airlift', but since rules allow only one film to be mentioned, the former was chosen. Eyebrows are being raised about films like 'Sultan' ( ) and 'Dangal' ( ) not finding their space on the winners’ list. 
 Priyadarshan elaborates, “Sultan was rejected by the Bombay Jury. So was Dangal. In fact, N Chandra, who was on the jury, recalled 'Dangal'. I supported him, and that’s how   (Best Supporting Actress) won the award. We didn’t consider Aamir for any award because he doesn’t believe in them and he didn’t even collect his National Award for 'Taare Zameen Par'. So, why would we give him an award now? As for Akshay, I’m not doing any film with him now or in the near future. He was supposed to do a film with me and  , but that didn’t materialise. We worked together years ago. So there’s no agenda to give him an award. Also, the point is, can I do that? Not as the National Award Jury chairman for sure. I don’t know who other than those faceless people on social media has a problem with Akshay’s win.” He points out that the final winners are chosen by the central jury after they are shortlisted from over 300 entries across regions by the regional juries. A chairperson, he says, only steps in when there is a dispute over winners among the central jury members, which he insists didn’t happen in this case.
 
 Priyadarshan sums up, “Akshay got the maximum votes this year. No one questioned when Prakash Jha and Ramesh Sippy chaired the jury and   and   won. Why do it to me? I don’t care for random opinions. We as a jury are happy about the winners because we have gone by the book. No one is talking about the girl who has won the Best Actress award (Surabhi Lakshmi) for her first film as a heroine. She used to play parallel leads until recently. No one is talking about the fact that Bengali films registered the maximum wins because they were a mix of social issues, some novel ideas and great narratives.”
 
