NAGPUR: For more than four decades, the   rode on the support of the Marathi manoos across the state, including Nagpur, to win an election. This may change in the ensuing civic polls — at least in February 21 Nagpur Municipal Corporation elections.

 Now that it is contesting the civic elections on its own — without the  , its partner for over three decades — the Shiv Sena has digressed from its Marathi-speaking tag and fielded candidates comprising Muslims and north Indians. This is evident from its list of 122 candidates for the 151 wards of the  .
 
 The Sena has nominated to a mix of Marathi, Gujarati, North Indian and Marwari candidates. Over 80% of the party’s list comprises Maharashtrian candidates, trying to protect its core voter base of the Marathi-speaking population from ally-turned-rival BJP, it has also accommodated 20% (26 candidates) north Indians, Punjabi, Bengalis and Jains, the Sena list shows. While distributing Form B, the party considered a high number of women candidates. At 54, the Sena has fielded 44% women.
 
 Shiv Sena city President   told TOI that the party has worked for all sections of the society. “So this time as many non-Maharashtrians approached us we gave tickets to them. In 2012 elections too, we had fielded Jagatram Sinha, a north Indian and he won,” he explained.
 
 The Sena has fielded one Muslim candidate Saeeda Sheikh from ward number 6A that has predominantly Muslim population.
 
 The party has also fielded a Punjabi candidate, Jagjit Kaur Johar, from Prabhag 7C, an area with a large Punjabi voters. Shanti Hariyani, a resident of Jaripatka, too got ticket and she will be contesting from Prabhag 1B.
 
 Other non-Maharashtrians who got Sena tickets included Seema Pande (ward 24-C),   (ward 36-C), Pravin Sharma (ward 35-D), Kalpana Sharma (22-A), Rakesh Tiwari (11-D), Ravi Gaur (20A) and Dr Deepak Patel (15A). Even Sonu Vijay Lingayat, a south Indian, too is lucky to get the party ticket. He is contesting from Prabhag number 31-A. 
 
 In the race to win maximum seats, the party has also given tickets to a couple Ankush Kadu and his wife Mangala. Both are in fray from the same Prabhag 2 B and C, respectively.
 
 A majority of Shiv Sena’s list promotes family members of senior Shakha heads, former and sitting corporators. For instance, the Sena fielded newly-inducted sitting corporator Anil Dhawde — who switched sides who jumped over to the Sena after BJP denied him ticket. He is in the fray from Prabhag 22D.
 
 The party has also ensured that it accommodates other leaders who joined the Shiv Sena at the cusp of elections.
 
 
