
It’s a nippy Saturday afternoon in Mumbai. At a popular diner in Powai, people have started filtering in and introducing themselves as if they were meeting at a friend’s house party. They inch towards the dining table where a blank canvas on a tabletop easel has replaced the dishware. At their fingertips are three paintbrushes, scoops of paint on a paper plate and a yellow cup with water. “So, are you ready to paint?” hollers a voice pointing at a Japanese cherry blossom scenery. But this isn’t your typical art class, with waiters travelling from easel to easel taking drink and food orders.
 
 “All that I’ve painted till now is the town red!” declares Abhishek Ghosalkar from Versova, twirling his paintbrush around sister Shaila’s face. Miguel Hebrero from Spain and his Gujarati girlfriend Nidhi were on a date while Nidhi Khazanchi, a software consultant had come looking for some “me-time”. They were a motley mix of 15 strangers in blue aprons, sipping on beer and biting into kathi rolls. Around 10 had never painted before.
 
 Then just like that, amidst all the chatter, Abhishek, Nidhi, Miguel and Nidhi were flicking pink and grey, sketching, shading, and dabbing colours on canvases like pros. 
 
 Art, they say, is the privilege of artists who must sink into solitude to create a masterpiece. But if Saturday’s session organized by the art-social group PaintParty is any indication, the ‘paint and dine’ industry, far removed from grave galleries and the usual brigade of art aficionados, is faring rather well. Art parties are now a popular social sport in Mumbai, Bengaluru, Gurgaon and Pune. 
 
 “It’s made the hallowed territory of art more accessible. By the end, it’s hard to tell who can and cannot paint!” says Pinky Panjwani, an engineer who founded PaintParty in 2015 after she moved to India from the US. A self-taught artist, she has conducted over 75 paint parties across Mumbai, seeking to give recreation an arty edge. “Many call it a creative spa,” she adds. 
 
 Helmed by a ring leader who plays the triple role of coach, emcee and spiritual guru, these social paint sessions at a cafe or restaurant almost resemble an orchestra at play as the conductor walks them through every line, dot and squiggle – from  , Batman and Beatles to M F Husain’s horses and Van Gogh’s Starry Night. The turnout varies from 10 to 30 for a fee of Rs 1,500 to Rs 2,500 for food, drinks and art (canvas, brushes, apron and easy-to-rectify acrylic paint). 
 
 “We try to keep the atmosphere joyful, relaxed and non-judgmental because 99% of people who attend have never painted,” says Snehal Patil, an architect who founded   over a year ago to add some fun to her house parties. She turned her drawing room into a studio and sat her friends down with canvas and paint over food and drinks. Pictures on social media drew requests from strangers and soon after, Snehal was hosting painting parties around the city. “It’s attracted young urban adults with an untapped need of a social experience, zero art exposure and disposable income. They’ll never go to a gallery or an art class but will go to a café or bar. That’s why we choose spaces they’re familiar with,” she adds. 
 
 Debasree Dey of Group Art Circle in Pune quit her IT job to host one of the city’s first “social-artworking” pop-ups last February. “Professionals of all kind attend to unwind after a hectic work week. Also, many pregnant women. Artwork can be intimidating. That’s why there’s music for people to sing along with and alcohol to loosen up. It’s fun art, not fine art,” she insists. 
 
 And it isn’t unusual for tipsy painters to confuse their dirty paint water with their cocktail. “Once during a session, a painter kept dipping her brush into her wine glass instead of the paint water and came to her senses only after she took a sip of what she thought was wine!” smiles Reshma Venkatraman of BrushPlay, one of the frontrunners of paint parties in Bengaluru. The Wine Company in Delhi has made weekend palette parties the latest way to appreciate their wine. 
 
 While sceptics consider the paint-and-dine genre a commercial ploy, for amateurs it is a chance to unplug and de-stress, one sip and stroke at a time. Mumbai-based psychotherapist Kunjal Shah who uses art as a medium points at the antidote such art gatherings offer. “Since the atmosphere isn’t performance-oriented, it is cathartic and meditative. It frees up the mind and gives the inner child a place to be. That’s how counselling works too.” 
 
 Palette parties have also found favour at bridal showers, engagement parties, birthdays and office socials. For some, it has gone beyond leisure and therapy. Two rookie artists who met at a paint session by   in Gurgaon went on to share their skills and start a venture in graphic design. And though there aren’t any expectations of skill or brilliance, some manage to produce stunning artworks. “Apart from basics we help them experiment with techniques like palette knife and dot art. The learning happens spontaneously,” explains Panjwani.
  
 When 85-year-old Pritam Uppal held a brush for the first time in six decades, popped champagne and doodled away at a Paintstorm party organised by Aanchal Bubber, it was way more exhilarating than her kitties. “No loose talk about servants, diseases, kids and jewellery… Aur sabse badiya painting maine banayi,” she gushed. Was it hidden talent, feel-good endorphins or the champagne flute? That’s the wonder of paint-and-dine parties. Never having to know.
 
 
