MUMBAI: The worry over delayed HSC results has been put to rest as junior college teachers have withdrawn their protest of not cooperating with the assessment following assurances from the state government. Over 72,000 members of the   State Junior College Teachers Association were correcting only one paper every day from March 3 and had threatened to boycott assessment if their demands were not met. For the past few years, the junior college teachers have been putting forth their demands with the state government. Some of their demands had been agreed to in principle but not implemented, said the teachers.

 However, over the past few days the members of the association had been meeting members of the government to work out a solution. School education minister,   said, "A meeting was held in presence of officials from the education department and finance minister of the state Sudhir Mungatiwar. Members of the association were also present at the meeting. Many of their demands have been agreed to and will be implemented soon. For the pending demands, meetings will be held in the month of May."
 
 According to the association the demands which have got the government's nod are giving staff approval for teachers appointed after 2012 and making information technology an aided subject. "We wanted the government to split the science paper into two parts for class X students and they have assured us that they will consult with the state board and get this done too," said  , general secretary of the association.
 
 The junior college teachers’ association has been protesting during the board examinations since the past five years. The teachers did not correct papers for a few days only in 2012 and 2016. However, some others do not agree with the association's modus operandi. "Most demands are not directly linked to the students but threatening to not correct papers affects students the most. These teachers must find a better way to communicate with the government instead of creating panic among students about delaying the results," said a teacher who did not wished to be named.
 
