From   to Mumbai. Yesterday, within two hours of landing, I lunched at  . After three glorious weeks of filming and eating my way through China, why would I want to eat at this cheap and cheerful Colaba eatery? To monitor consistency. Just before leaving for China I had a disappointing meal with the gorgeous Sinophile gourmet, Divia Thani who has grown up on Chinese food (her family is still based in Hong Kong.) The brilliant travel magazine editor and writer packs more wallop than a bone dry martini, a closet science geek and belly dancer, she travels for food. Loves China and gave me invaluable foodie tips …alas! over stodgy dimsum and dodgy sushi. How could the owners of Kuai ( who also own   and Jia) allow this? That’s why I just had to go back to recheck.

 
 
 Wedged between bustling  , this tiny 12-seater eatery is cheerfully and colourfully done up. Lights encased in red bird cages and graffiti on the walls. Open kitchen.
 
 
 
 Over the two meals, we ate our way through most of the short menu of Asian comfort food. Liberally spiced mains came up tops, be it the Mongolian tenderloin or the lamb in black pepper sauce. Flavoursome hakka noodles had just the right smooth texture and moist kiss.   duck tempura surprised and delighted with it’s garlicky kick.
 
 
 
 The seriously small space, poor ventilation make it really uncomfortable when there is stir-frying in the kitchen (which is often). No raw fish in the sushi. Stodgy prawn tempura sushi roll. Disappointing thick-skinned dimsum (truffle edamame included) Thick tempura batter encased prawns. I just ate the most authentic two signature Sichuan dishes in Chengdu, the capital of Sichuan. The bold chillybean spice paste rich mapo tofu (in the 155 year old mapo tofu restaurant where it was invented) and the peanut-studded kung pao chicken. Not only did both dishes in Kuai lack authenticity but also flavour. Mud cake is avoidable. 
 
 
 
 The pocket-sized and pocket-friendly Kuai Kitchen is the offspring of two pedigreed and highly successful parents — Royal China and Jia. Why is it not living up to it’s genes? It’s commendable that the price points are much lower but that does not justify the food being low in taste and high in inauthenticity. Kuai Kitchen is a great concept and with the expertise of Royal China and Jia, it’s perfectly possible to have good quality, well-priced Chinese fast-food. Give us “Kuai Kitchen” not “McKuai”. 
 
 
 
