After months of speculation, the Undertaker's Wrestlemania 33 opponent has finally been revealed. During the final segment of Monday Night   from Chicago, Braun Strowman called out Roman Reigns, who had him beat on Sunday at Fastlane. But his call was answered by none other than the 
 , and as the two stood face to face in the ring, Strowman vs. Undertaker seemed a likely lock for Wrestlemania.

 However, Strowman soon retreated through the crowd. And while the Undertaker too was on his way out, Reign's music hit. As the 'Big Dog' made his walk towards the ring, you knew that the creative team was indeed going ahead with Reigns vs. Undertaker for Mania. 
 
 "Braun didn't call you out, Deadman. He called me. So with all due respect, this is my hard now," Reigns said, getting right into the Phenom's face.
 
 Undertaker did not say a word back. Instead, he looked up at the Wrestlemania sign on top of the All-State Arena in Chicago, Illinois, and delivered a thunderous Chokeslam to Reigns, officially planting the seeds of their match on April 2. Come Wrestlemania, the question of 'Whose yard it truly is' will be answered.
 
  first pitched the idea at the Royal Rumble in January, where Reigns eliminated Taker. It is believed that it might very well be Undertaker's last match. Hence the idea of a generational passing of the torch is also being discussed. That idea however, can be hard to pull off considering the beef WWE crowd has with Reigns, as a result of which the former SHEILD member might as well be booed out of the building.
 
 Taker, in the last leg of his wrestling career, was hurting at the Royal Rumble despite undergoing a hip surgery last year. He is apparently scheduled to undergo a complete hip replacement surgery, something that he had put on shelf until his in-ring career is over. Considering the Undertaker's health and how well Reigns fits into company's scheme of things in the future, this is WWE's golden opportunity to give the Deadman his send-off. At the same time, it means big money for the WWE. Despite fans' reaction towards Reigns, one can't rule out the excitement of the feud. It can also mean a much-anticipated heel turn for Reigns which the fans have been long clamouring for.
 
 
 
 
  
  
 The March 6 episode of Raw also saw the creative build-up for the much rumoured Chris Jericho-Kevin Owens match at Mania, as the Prizefighter accepted  's challenge. Three weeks ago, KO attacked Jericho during the 'Festival of Friendship', following which the first ever WWE undisputed champion distracted Owens during his championship match against Goldberg at Fastlane, costing him the title. Goldberg delivered a spear and a jackhammer to win the match in another squash job spanning 20 seconds. It further meant that the planned Goldberg vs. Brock Lesnar match at Mania would now be for the title.
 
 On his first night as Universal Champion, Goldberg was greeted by Paul Heyman, who said he was not alone. He introduced his client Lesnar, who delivered an F5 to the man who beat him at Survivor Series in 86 seconds after Heyman had distracted him with a rude comment.
 
