PUNE: Any violation of the code of conduct will now be monitored 24X7 with the help of closed circuit television (CCTV) cameras and videography. 

 The election cell of   (PMC) in association with the Pune police has formed a special unit for round-the-clock surveillance.
 
 Recently, the civic officials had filed criminal offences against some aspirants for not following the norms set by the  . 
 
 Four candidates of Nationalist   (NCP) and   (BJP) faced action on Ahmednagar Road for using more vehicles than permitted and conducting campaigns without permission.
 
 “The central monitoring room has been set up and political activities taking place in different areas of the city are being watched both online and offline,” Vilas Kanade, a senior PMC official coordinating the code of conduct cell, said.
 
 Each returning officer will have at least three officers to keep watch on political happenings in their respective zones. They will pass the ground information to the cell. As many as 40 video recording cameras will be given to them.
 
 Kanade said members of his teams will do virtual information checks and media tracking. They will keep an eye on issues or complaints raised by people or aspirants. If any message that violates the code of conduct is found, action will be taken against those sharing it. Cyber surveillance will be taken up separately to keep track on social media and internet-based messaging such as WhatsApp.
 
 The civic administration has surveillance teams to keep a check on the inflow of money and liquor in the city from other parts of the state and the country. These teams have started functioning and will backed by CCTV cameras and videographers. 
 
 Police officials will help secure CCTV footage and toll booths at entry points of city will act as a base for the teams, including flying squads, to keep a watch on vehicular movements.
 
 Election officer Satish Kulkarni said they had finalized 294 places in the city, where rallies and public meetings can be held. “Flying squads will monitor the rallies and other programmes conducted by the leaders or parties. Video recording of these events will check if any violation of code of conduct has taken place or not,” he said.
 
 As many as 10 municipal corporations, including Pune, will go the polls on February 21 and the results will be announced on February 23. Over 26.43 lakh voters have been registered for this election, which will elect 162 corporators. Campaigning will continue till February 19.
 
 
