That’s the thing with fashion – it changes! And with trends getting in and out of vogue every day, it’s hard to keep up with all the change. What’s harder is to keep buying new clothes all the time! So, what do you do to keep your current wardrobe in style? The key is to accessorize right and give life to an old, oft worn outfit! Here are a few   trends that I’m so totally into this season.

 
 
 Ever seen yourself gawking at the cabin crew wearing scarves and all you could think about is how effortlessly chic they look, welcome to the club! I absolutely love them! Their most glorious years were in the 70s, but scarves have come back with a bang! Pick a silk printed scarf and choker tie it with your white shirt outfit to make you the Blair Waldorf at work or just tie a cotton scarf as a head band with a gypsy dress to awaken your inner bohemian. Bright check scarves with the trench coats or dull ones with your over-sized sweaters will definitely keep you in game. 
 
 
 
 For the last few years, designers are trying – often successfully – to make fashion for everyone. And why shouldn’t they! And a trend that has recently caught on is a nice pair of socks! Who would have thought that? It is by far the easiest and the most inexpensive piece of accessory that will change the entire outfit. From the silks to frills, and neons to glitter, team these with your mules, your sandals, your block heel shoes. Don’t just limit yourself with sneakers! For your work clothes you can pick the more subtle ones, at parties you can play with the knee high socks with your minis.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 While we know that the belts didn’t go anywhere, the double buckle belt has reemerged after the 80s like a Kraken! Try teaming these gypsy style belts with your high waist flared jeans or the metallic buckles to match your pencil skirt at work. A body shaper belt with a sari will definitely make all the aunties turn their heads at the next wedding! Enjoy all the attention while you dig into a hot gulab jamun.
 
 
 
 That one earring trend was a major head turner last year. Now, isn’t that the most convenient thing ever? Pick the most gawky, chunky one piece and add flavor to your outfit. The best part about it? You don’t have to throw your favourite earring of which you lost one. Just wear the one left and be stylish!
 
 
 You don’t even have to go shopping for this one. Both your old necklaces and your pocket will thank you for this. Just clean your drawer and place your metallic neckpieces together and beads and pearls can have their awesome reunion. Try layering these at your next party and grab all the attention. 
 
 Avantika Mohan's suitcase and her cupboard define her. "There are only two things I am good at: travel and clothes. My day job in aviation and my passion for all things stylish take care of both!"
 
 
