In the latest episode of  , Pragya ( ) is seen crying in front of Abhi ( ). She says that Baba didn't do the right thing by leaving her alone for the second time in life. He should have returned home with her. Abhi tells her that he would bring her father and both sisters back home and asks her to wipe off her tears.
 
  Sarla returns home and thinks of her daughter. She prays to God to return both her daughter, just then the phone rings and it is Pragya on the other end telling her she is fine with Abhi. Pragya tells Sarla that she knows that her father is alive and he only helped them escape from the goons. She reveals about her younger sisters too. Pragya promises her mother to bring back her sisters and all of them would live happily together. Sarla shares the same with Pragya's dadi.
  
  Abhi and Pragya walk together on the road as they are heading back home, but see the goons coming towards them in a jeep. They run into the jungle once again and the commando follows them, along with his men. The reach at a river side and Abhi thinks of jumping into the river as it would take them down, but Pragya tells her that she doesn't know how to swim. The goons also reach there and point their guns at them. Abhi tells Pragya to jump into the water with him.
  
  As the contract killer is about to shoot Abhi, he asks the former who sent him to kill them? He refuses to tell them who sent him. Abhi tries to lure him by offering him more money, but he doesn't show any interest in that too.
  
  Purab comes to the road Abhi and Pragya had taken and stops the car there. They start looking for Abhi and Pragya there. AS soon as the cop fires in the air, the contract killer fires at Pragya. Pragya falls on the ground and the commando runs from the spot with the goons. Abhi runs behind them and indulges in a physical fight with commando. Abhi pushes commando and he falls in a waterfall.
  
  
 
  
  A large wave pulls Pragya in the river, and Abhi and Purab also jum in to save Pragya. Abhi faints midway and is saved by two strangers.
  
  As Abhi regains his consciousness, he sees himself surrounded by Alia, Tanu, Dadi and dasi. Pragya's beeji calsl Dadi and asks her about Pragya, when Purab tells everyone that she was hit by a bullet and is dead now. Everyone is shocked to hear that. Abhis asks Purab to let him go and look for Pragya, but he tells him that the police is already looking for her dead body.
  
  Beeji tells this news to Sarla and Janki, who go in shock after listening to the news.
  
  Keep watching this space for more updates. Kumkum Bhagya airs on Zee TV at 9 pm, Monday to Friday.
  
  
 
  
  
 
