PUNE: The   and Congress leaders in Umarga taluka in Osmanabad district are on a different terrain when the two parties are slugging it out in national politics, and how!

 They have coined the slogan “Congress-BJP alliance for development” when Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been insisting on “Congress Mukta (free) Bharat”. The only goal of the political combination was to rule in the local body.
 
 Not just in Umarga, leaders in several other places have come up with new political combinations to grab power in panchayat samitis. Their state and national leaders spewing venom at each other notwithstanding, the local leaders are going for different kinds of alliances to get majority in taluka panchayats.
 
 The BJP and Shiv   — the traditional allies ruling together in the state and at the Centre — have tried their best to keep each other away from majority in many panchayats. The trend is likely to continue in zilla parishads (ZP), where presidents and vice-presidents would be elected shortly.
 
 “The BJP and Congress have come together in Umraga Panchayat Samiti (Osmanabad district in Marathawada) for development. We are together only for people and there is no other intention,” said Madan Patil of the Congress, elected president of the taluka panchayat. His deputy, BJP member Yuraj Jadhav, echoed Patil’s statement.
 
 The Congress emerged as the single largest party in elections and could have taken help from its traditional alliance partner — the   — to get majority. But the Congress leaders decided to deprive the NCP of the power and went with the BJP.
 
 In Aurangabad and Jalna talukas, the Sena and Congress came together to keep the BJP at bay. In Beed, where BJP minister Pankaja Munde and her estranged cousin and NCP leader Dhananjay Munde have locked horns to control the district politics, the BJP and NCP leaders have joined hands in Shirur.
 
 The Congress and BJP have come together in Hatkanangle taluka of Kolhapur district, while the Congress and NCP supported the BJP in Gadhinglaj. In Kagal, the NCP and Shiv Sena have joined hands.
 
 In Chandgad, it is the combination of the BJP, Congress and Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana. The BJP and NCP share power in Palus panchayat samiti in Sangli. In Miraj, the Congress and BJP combine is calling the shots.
 
 The Congress and Sena together are ruling Khed and Junnar taluka panchayats in Pune. “There are no differences between us when it comes to working for the development of taluka,” said Asha Buchke of Sena.
 
 Similar patterns are being followed in almost all panchayats in Maharashtra, but senior party leaders were unwilling to talk on local combinations. “Local politics is a completely different ballgame. State leaders cannot intervene in each and every matter and the decision on post-poll alliance at local levels is left to the local leadership. Local politics it is more about individuals than parties. These alliances do not really affect electoral calculations in the Assembly and Lok Sabha segments,” said a spokesperson of one of the parties requesting anonymity.
 
 Political scientist Ashok Chousalkar insisted that today’s politics was without any ‘principle’ and politicos knew how to get votes despite losing credibility. “This is grim reality of today’s politics. Not only politicians, their supporters and voters have adjusted to it,” he said.
 
