INDORE: In the first of its kind initiative, the working plan division of forest department has come up with a blueprint for conservation and management of  . The plan is aimed at restoring the flow of river by controlling erosion and restricting  .

 The forest department has prepared the plan following the footsteps of Ganga action plan. Officials claim that they have studied various parts of the river right from the origin.
 
 “We have also taken lessons from Ganga action plan and tried to come up with its shortcomings in our present plan,” said additional principal chief conservator of forest (working plan)  .
 
 Officials of the department said that they have chosen one kilometre area on both sides of river bank. The conservation plan would also include 20 metres area on both sides of subsidiary rivers of Narmada.
 
 “In our plan we have given more emphasis to water conservation than the usual practice of emphasis of increasing wood production,” Dubey said.
 
 The forest department has also come up with separate plan for all forested area near the Narmada. A district wise detailed report has been prepared that includes quality of water, quality of soil, type of soil in each area, quality of forest in the area and weather condition.
 
 “We have to treat different areas in different manner. While in some area, water recharging will be the priority, in other areas, grass plantation is needed. There are areas in which we need to stop pesticides from entering inside water and some area suffer from encroachment,” Dubey said.
 
 Dubey also said that while modern practices of conservation were being adopted, they have also included traditional conservation practices and practices followed by the locals from ancient time.
 
 “This project would also involve cooperation from people living in the areas nearby , saints and ashrams that have been active in Narmada conservation and all people who care for river conservation and management,” Dubey said.
 
 Officials of the forest department said that the detailed plan would be sent to for approval to the principal chief conservator of forest, principle secretary and chief minister.
 
 Chief minister   has been touring various places and creating awareness related to Narmada conservation and management through Narmada Seva Yatra.
 
