Taking the love for pets to another level, a   was organised at a cafe in Aishabgh on Saturday evening.Titled Sundowner Pet Party, the do was hosted by Dr   Shukla, a pet lover and pet services provider. The party saw   of several Indian and foreign breeds ‘pet together’ under one woof – sorry, get-together under one woof. "The reason why dogs bark at each other is because they don’t get an opportunity to party with each other. This event, which has professional handlers too in case the dogs become unmanageable, aims to break the ice and to teach dogs to be social," said Vishakha, adding, "What I have seen in Lucknow is that here dogs tend to be aggressive towards each other. They don’t like to socialise with each other. So being a professional trainer, I understand how important it is for a dog to get to socialise with the other dogs."
And to break the ice between the dogs, several games were also organised for these pooches. The event started with a brief introduction of the pets by their proud owners. Soon after that, a game of musical chairs was organised for the dogs and their owners. And that's not all, they even walked the ramp with their owners. Interestingly, a DJ was specially roped in for the event. Quite excited to play for the pooches,   had even prepared a special playlist for them. "In the past too I have played music at dog shows. So I kind of now know what they like. I have specially prepared tracks with house and trance music for these pets. Since they don’t like loud music, I will mostly be playing music at lower decibel levels. Plus, I have their favourite track – Who Let the Dogs Out!" 
 Vani Singh, a graduation student who came with her dog Bruno of Dachshund, seemed quite excited to attend an event meant exclusively for the pets. "Dogs need to socialise just like humans. My dog never got the opportunity to attend such an event because of which he got aggressive after coming here. Since we live in an apartment, he doesn’t get a chance to communicate with other dogs. Being the first of its kind event, I really wish it to be organised again in future because it is much needed for pets,” says Vani. 
 For Nidhika Goel, a homemaker, who came with her Labrador dog Tiger, it was a challenging task to make her pet adjust with the other dogs. "Since he doesn’t travel much, he was quite anxious throughout the way. As this was for the first time he was meeting so many dogs at one place, it took a lot of time for him to adjust. These types of events should take place once or twice a month where our pets can see how good the world is because staying at home and spending time within the four walls makes their life also boring," says Goel.
 Akansha Raj, who has completed her MBBS, came with a stray dog, which she adopted four months back. "It was their way of communicating when they were barking. People usually prefer to adopt pedigree dogs but not strays. My perception was totally different as the strays are also just like any other dog. Therefore, I thought of bringing Fi-Fi over here where she can meet dogs of different breeds and socialise with them."
 Dr Manjula Goswami, principal of a private school in the city, came with her one and a half month dog Genji, and found the event as a treat for her dog. "The moment I came to know about this is a party for dogs, I immediately registered my dog’s name. This is the right age for him to mingle with other dogs as he is still small. While it is difficult for grown-up dogs to party together, he is enjoying every minute of this do."
 However, not all the dogs were in a mood to socialise. Monu Sial's St. Bernard, Simba, had a good time sitting in front of the cooler. "He was least bothered about the other dogs because he was feeling hot and thirsty throughout the event. The main purpose of bringing him here was for him to be able to communicate with the other dogs and spend a nice time with them because he is a family dog and he hardly gets an opportunity to go outside and socialise with other dogs in the colony." 
 Even Zainab Rizvi’s pug seemed quite scared to mingle with other dogs at the party. "Before this, I have never heard of this concept where a party is organised especially for dogs in Lucknow, while such events are common in the Metros. As soon as I came inside with my pet Ginger, she got scared because she never has never seen so many dogs at one place before. Seeing such huge dogs like St. Bernard and Labrador, she got more scared and just sat behind my feet. However, if such parties are organised regularly the dogs will become more social," shares. 
 Aarti Vaid, owner of a   in Aishbagh, where the event took place, says her friends in Delhi were surprised to know about this do. "While in Mumbai there are cafes where one can take their pets, but other cities are still not that pet-friendly. This is a great initiative where not only dogs but even their owners get to learn a lot about the importance of pet socialising. We are now planning to make this a regular affair, probably organising it every month." she said.
 — By Adnaan Rizvi 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  Organiser Vishakha Shukla with a stray pup which was available for adoption at the party 
 
 
  
    and her pet Sunairi, a stray dog
 
 
 
  
  Jigyasa with Fi-Fi, a stray dog
 
 
 
  
  Kalpana Rai and her pet Donut, a Beagle were the winners in the game of musical chairs
 
 
 
  
  Pranati cuddles her pet Gucci, a Golden Retriever
 
 
 
  
 
