NEW DELHI: The meeting of the   (PAC) on Friday saw a political altercation between BJP members and committee chair K V Thomas in the presence of RBI governor  , called to depose on monetary policy. 

 Thomas set the tone for an acrimonious discussion, listing the hardships he said the public had suffered, and asking Patel if the central bank would compensate for the death of 100 people waiting at ATMs for cash. 
 
 While Patel sat through the row, BJP members sprang to his defence, with Hamirpur MP   asking whether the central transport minister could be held responsible for deaths on a state highway. Another BJP MP, Nishikant Dubey, suggested that Patel need not delve into any area outside of monetary policy, before Thomas, finding himself under concerted fire from BJP members, turned to BJD leader Bhartruhari Mahtab. 
 
 Committee sources said the sharp exchanges could have been avoided if Thomas had struck a more sedate note. But his strong criticism that   had hurt farmers, cooperatives and traders like jewellers in his opening remarks made the BJP counter-attack all but inevitable. Mahtab is understood to have pointed out that the impact of demonetisation did fall in the realm of monetary policy, and that this subject had been discussed by the committee recently, in December last year. 
 
 The intervention cooled tempers somewhat, and the proceedings saw Patel being asked several questions on the decision to demonetise. On who — the RBI or the government — authorised demonetisation, the RBI’s written submission plainly said the power to scrap banknotes lay with the government. “The conduct of monetary policy by RBI under the RBI Act is different from the action taken by the government for withdrawal of legal tender character of Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 banknotes under a different provision of the Act,” the central bank told the committee in a written statement. The RBI said the old series of Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 notes was cancelled effective midnight on November 8 by the government on receiving the central bank’s recommendation. Patel faced some tough questions from the Trinamool representative, who said he was disappointed by the governor’s answers. 
 
 Congress presence was depleted, with only   present at the meeting. He is understood to have pressed the governor to reveal how many of the demonetised notes had been deposited. On questions relating to interest rates, Patel said the policy rate of 6.25% was arrived at keeping in mind inflation and international factors like Brexit and the US election. He defended banking restrictions as reasonable and responsible, saying they had been made with the intention to protect public interest and based on past cash utilisation. Patel insisted that demonetisation did not violate the right to trade and said the RBI had honoured, “value for value”, each ‘specified bank note’ that was deposited. BJP MP Kirit Somaiya critcised the PAC secretariat for framing questions that seemed to treat RBI officials as criminals who were being cross-examined in a court of law. He said the RBI had done a great job post-demonetisation.
