BENGALURU: Six days after  , 54, was hacked to death near the  , east Bengaluru, cops arrested his wife Doreen and four others who were part of the murder plot. Doreen, 48, had outsourced the killing to a debtor, who, in turn, paid killers to finish the job.

 Interestingly, the killers subcontracted the task of luring Kumar to an isolated spot to a woman, who used a friend to make the crucial call. Doreen was upset that Kumar, a financier in Jogupalya, Ulsoor, was having affairs quite brazenly. Police said Kumar, who had lent money to several women, would seek sexual favours from them and in the months leading up to his murder, had even taken some of them home. A furious Doreen decided to end it.
 
 Doreen reportedly offered Sridhar, who owed her husband Rs 5 lakh, money to kill him. “She befriended him recently and besides offering to waive off his loan, promised him Rs 30 lakh if he murdered Kumar,“ police said, adding that   accepted the offer.
 
 However, Sridhar contacted Prabhu who knew tacted Prabhu who knew some criminals. “Sridhar was not sure if he could commit the murder and contacted Prabhu, who, in turn, got in touch with Patrick, Avinash and Dinesh,“ Hemant Nim balkar, additional commissioner of police (east) said.
 
 Gang leader Dinesh, who allegedly hacked Kumar to death on April 6, used Clara to lure Kumar to an isolated spot. He had helped Clara earlier when some men had harassed her daughter.
 
 Clara, who doesn't know Kannada, realised she couldn't convince Kumar without speaking in that language and called in a favour from her friend Revathi. “She asked Revathi to make the call,“ the police said.
 
 The gang purchased a mobile phone in the name of Lakshmi using fake documents. Revathi called Kumar using the mobile and asked Kumar to meet her near the Kalpalli cemetery. Kumar fell for the bait.When he arrived at the spot, Dinesh, Patrick and Avinash hacked him to death.
 
 Police arrested (in pics) Doreen, Sridhar, Prabhu, Dinesh and Patrick and are questioning Clara and Revathi. Avinash is absconding. Nimbalkar said the investigation hinged entirely on human intelligence and a crucial lead from Vinod, a constable, proved to be very important. “We have given   a cash reward,“ Nimbalkar said, adding that the phone purchased by the gang was used to make just one call which was the last call received by Kumar. This led them to Revathi and Clara and then eventually to the killers and lastly Sridhar and Doreen.
 
 “Though the documents used to buy the phone were fake, we managed to find the woman who used it and and the rest unfolded,“ police said.
 
