BIJNOR: A 28-year-old mother of two girls approached Bijnor police chief on Saturday demanding action against her husband, who, she claimed, gave her instant triple talaq over phone from   after she “resisted” rape attempts by his two brothers in   of the district.
 
 The woman has also made an appeal to Prime Minister   to put an end to the practice of instant triple talaq.
  
 According to the victim, she got married about eight years ago. “Soon after the marriage, my husband and in-laws started demanding dowry,” she said. She also alleged that her husband, she came to know later, was already married in South Africa and had two children.
  
 “I had no option but to live with this reality as I have to raise two children,” she said, adding that he used to visit India once in a year.
  
 However, there were more troubles in store for her. Exploiting the situation, her two brothers-in-law tried to “sexually exploit” her. She alleged that her husband’s brother threatened to get her divorced if she did not “oblige” them.
  
 “On January 1, my elder brother-in-law entered into my room and tried to rape me. He also threatened me that he would ask my husband to give me triple talaq if I revealed this to anyone,” she said.
  
 “Then on April 26, my younger brother-in law also tried to rape me,” she said in her complaint to the police officer.
  
 According to her, she spoke to her mother-in-law about her ordeal and she in turn called up her son. “My husband called me up from South Africa and gave me instant triple talaq on April 27.
  
 “I was thrown out of the house after that,” she said.
  
 Outside the SP office, she told reporters: “I have come to meet SP   with a written complaint. I want action against my husband and the in-laws who have ruined my life.”
  
 “My only fault was that I did not allow my brothers-in-law to sexually exploit me,” she said.
  She also sought PM Modi’s intervention to end triple talaq.
  
 “Muslim women are expecting Prime Minister Modi to take stern action against those who give triple talaq without any substantial reason. They are ruining the lives of thousands of women, leaving them on streets,” she told reporters.
  
 Bijnor SP Ajay Sahani has ordered a probe into her complaint and said that a case will be registered after that.
