PUNE: Close to six months since demonetisation, over half the ATMs in the city remained out of cash on Tuesday. This has now become a familiar pattern on the days following the payday or successive bank holidays. 

 ATMs, with no cash but with "Cash could not be dispensed," rice papers strewn around were a common sight through Sunday to Tuesday.
 
 Bankers said that the main problem is that the RBI is not supplying big value   and the supply itself is sporadic.
 
 RBI's data shows that the notes in circulation as on April 21, 2017 was over 81% of what it was exactly a year ago. Despite this, banks keep running out of cash to fill ATMs. One senior banker said that there is enough currency in branches but most of it is in small denomination - which cannot be filled in ATMs.
 
 "People are also demanding Rs 500 and Rs 2,000 denomination notes at branches," said a branch manager of a public sector bank.
 
 Other reasons, apart from alleged short supply of new notes from the RBI, is that lifting of all withdrawal limits in March has meant that people are withdrawing more than they need and hoarding. Since banks have also placed restrictions on cash deposit in branches, people are not bringing cash back as they use d to earlier.
 
 "Almost all banks have put a cap on free cash deposit at branches and people are not bringing the money back," said a public sector banker.
 
 As a result, people have to check a couple of ATMs before they can find cash in one. For a lot of ATMs, it was observed that the ones attached to branches were dispensing cash with higher probability than standalone ones.
 
 So, why are banks still struggling to fill ATMs despite the RBI data suggesting return of over 80% of pre-demonetisation currency in circulation? The answer, bankers say, is the fact that though 80% of currency may be back in circulation, a lot of it is in the form of soiled or low denomination notes.
 
 "These notes are not what ATMs have been recalibrated for," said a banker.
 
 A currency chest officer with a public sector bank said, "I don't know why there are sporadic shortages. On days, I have to literally struggle to keep the ATMs and the branches going. It is a scary situation."
 
