MUNGER: The Eastern   (ER) will soon start construction of another tunnel cutting through   hill near Jamalpur railway station on Jamalpur-Bhagalpur section, parallel to the existing one, said   Harendra Rao in Jamalpur on Thursday evening.

 The old tunnel has become rather risky and the new one will facilitate fast movement of trains both on up and down tracks. 
 
 Rao was interacting with mediapersons at Jamalpur railway station after he alighted from the special inspection train from Howrah along with Malda divisional rail manager (DRM) Mohit Sinha. 
 
 Talking on the issue of alleged theft of railway wagons from the Jamalpur railway workshop in the past few years, he said the matter was being investigated and the ER was committed to bring the culprits to book.
 
 Easter Railway sources added even the recent audit report indicates that over 100 railway wagons sent to Jamalpur rail workshop for repairing from different rail divisions have not been sent back to respective divisions. There is no record whether they were sold or auctioned.
 
 Rao also said another project of Rail Relay Interlocking (RRI) system will soon start at Jamalpur railway station and the project is under the active consideration of the railway board. Once completed, it will facilitate smooth movement of trains without any hassle and use of man power.
 
 The GM also said that all mail and express trains passing through the   section will henceforth be equipped with LHB coaches, as railways have discontinued manufacturing of existing ICF coaches.
 
 The ER official also received more than a dozen representations by different organisations and associations. Their main demands included declaring Jamalpur railway workshop as a manufacturing workshop, introducing express trains via Munger on the newly-opened rail bridge across the Ganga between south and north Munger and introducing a train between Bhagalpur and  . The demands also include opening a railway university on the campus of the ERMI at Jamalpur.
 
 
