VARANASI:  , a farmer from   village in Chiraigaon, has been barefoot for the past 10 years. The 77-year-old has vowed to wear any footwear only when SP chief   becomes the Prime Minster.

 Ice cold floors and puddles with freezing water do not affect him, nor do the scorching roads of North India's summer. The die-hard supporter of the   patriarch is willing to do anything, even give up his life, for his Netaji.
 
 “Netaji knows my vow. He asked me to give up this pledge. But I told him that I can't break my pledge,“ claimed the septuagenarian, adding, “Mein netaji ka pujari hun (I worship Netaji)“. He goes on to say he can die for him if asked to.
 
 Sharing the story behind his unusual vow, he says, “I had gone to a function 10 years ago.There, my sandals were stolen by someone or they went missing. Instead of buying new ones, I took the pledge that I will wear shoes only when Netaji becomes the PM.“
 
 Mahagu says he is not literate but he understands the value of words and commitment.“From then on, I never used footwear and I will be the happiest person if I get a new pair of chappals after seeing Mulayam as the PM,“ says the man clad in dhoti-kurta and shawl.
 
 He says he used to meet Mulayam whenever he went to Lucknow.
 
 “Netaji is my role model and my imagination can't go beyond him,“ he says. For him, the ongoing tussle between Mulayam and his son chief minister Akhilesh Yadav is most painful.
 
 “I want to see both riding on the same bicycle. I am a hardcore Mulyamwadi but I cannot afford to give up Akhilesh. It will be disastrous for the party if the two split,“ he says.
 
 Mahagu travels daily from his village to the party office in Orderly Bazaar, Varanasi, on his bicycle, covering a distance of about 35 km just to meet party workers and leaders. He has never sought any help from the party or demanded anything from the leaders. The party workers are aware of his vow and dedication and respect him, he says.
 
 Admiring his devotion to Mulayam and his undying spirit, district SP president   says, “It is rare to see such a selfless man committed to the party . We respect his dedication.“
 
