MANGALURU: DC K   on Monday directed all urban local bodies in Dakshina Kannada to operate a 24x7   to mitigate drinking water problems this summer. The helpline should accept complaints pertaining to drinking water scarcity, if any, and attend to the same within 24-hours. The officers will be held directly responsible in case there are public protests, agitations due to water crisis that could surface as the   progresses, he warned.

 Chairing a preparatory meeting in connection with preparation to mitigate drinking water scarcity, the DC said in case the need arises to supply water in tankers, the officers must obtain clearance from committee concerned and do so and inform the DC’s office. Observing that water supply can be hit if the pumps go out of order at water supply stations, the DC directed officials to keep a mechanic and an alternate pump set on standby to ensure that there is no worsening of situation.
 
 Officials must identify in advance areas prone to drinking water scarcity. The administration will ban fishing in river using chemicals to ensure that potable sources are protected. Officials must also ensure that independent power producers do not use water stored in weirs for power production without prior permission from the administration and must also create awareness among the masses to ensure that water is used conservatively during the summer.
 
 Given that the state government has declared Mangaluru and Bantwal taluks in Dakshina Kannada as drought affected, officials must focus on taking up works under the MNREG scheme, especially creating a playground on revenue land in each village. Dried up water bodies in drought affected taluks should be rejuvenated under Kere Sanjeevani scheme. Transportation of fodder to Kerala from Dakshina Kannada or through DK should be completely banned, he said.
 
 There should be joint survey of crop loss in the drought affected taluks by officials of revenue, horticulture and agriculture. The tahsildars should monitor the drinking water situation every week and not allow the situation to aggravate, Jagadeesha directed. Noting that drinking water needs of the city can be fully met if water is stored to 8 metre level at Thumbe, he directed Bantwal tahsildar to get all information of land that is likely to be submerged on this count.
 
 
