HYDERABAD:  , the city's one-stop   for 45 days at   has several empty stalls on Monday. Organisers are hoping that it will build up over the next few days. 

 While organisers are emphasising on security arrangements, parking facilities and traffic strategies, several entrepreneurs are not happy with their stall allotments. It's been two days since the exhibition was inaugurated, but some entrepreneurs are already claiming refunds or asking for a better location from the Exhibition Society officials.
 
  The stall space is split into several categories such as handlooms, food items, health and ayurvedic products. The shoppers have to shell out their precious cash to purchase from the smaller stalls - food, kitchen wares or other household essentials as they are not equipped with swipe machines or Paytm QR codes. Another inconvenient aspect for buyers is that they could easily get lost in the exhibition as the layout map and the stall locaters is yet to be put in place.
 
 However, it is pertinent to note that these hiccups are likely to change if all the 2,500 stalls begin their business and the promised swipe machine counters are put in place. On the positive front, the 77th All India Industrial Exhibition (AIIE) highlighting aspect is the ' ' and the importance given to women entrepreneurs. "This exhibition is a white choice at one venue, what's special this year is that we are offering women's only stalls for women entrepreneurs," Aditya Margam, Secretary of AIIE said. 
 
 They have allotted free parking inside the 20-acre exhibition grounds, and interestingly, one can find their parking space by downloading an app by logging on to 'getmyparking.com'. Apart from the umpteen number of choices that Numaish has to offer, the entertaining rides such as ferris wheel and giant wheel are up and running for kids to enjoy. The 46-day exhibition which was inaugurated by Industries Minister K. 
 
 Tarakarama Rao promised to make Numaish a global extravaganza on par with the Dubai shopping festival but it is yet to manifest itself in the upcoming days, once the preparations are completed. 
 
 
