MUMBAI: A   ceremony in a suburban college was staged after close to 500 students were handed out certificates, only to be taken back again as they walked off the stage. Reason: The convocation   were riddled with errors, spelling mistakes and missing text on all but two of them. 

 The commerce college in Andheri with 468 passouts had announced its ceremony, invited the chief guest and sent out invites to the graduating class. But when the boxes of convocation certificates dispatched by the   arrived, authorities were shocked to find they were erroneous and could not be given to candidates. 
 
 “In some cases, the name of the college was wrongly printed in Devnagiri script. In some other cases, a word in the college name was missing. Each of the 466 certificates had some error or the other,” said a student. When the matter was raised with the university, it earlier refused to accept the mistake. It asked the institute to pay fresh fees for each certificate, but when the college protested, the university decided to reprint the entire bunch.
 
 A similar problem occurred with a handful of other colleges too; some students have complained that their names have spelling mistakes. In all, the university has printed 1.75 lakh convocation certificates this year and  , controller of examinations, said around 3,000-4,000 certificates could have some minor error, but his office was handling the cases and issuing fresh certificates.
 
  outsources the job of printing convocation certificates. “My name has been wrongly printed and hence I have applied for a fresh certificate with the corrected name. But I am yet to receive the corrected certificate,” said a student from a south Mumbai college.
 
 Thus is the procedure followed by the university: A college-wise list of graduating students is drawn up and a soft copy is sent to the respective institute for verification. Once the colleges approve the list, the certificates go into print. But only the English bit is sent and, in most cases, errors crop up in the Hindi portion of the certificate, said several principals.
 
 Institute heads were quick to add that despite the fact that the university had asked colleges to shoulder the responsibility of holding their respective convocation ceremonies, the fees collected for it were not passed on to the institutes. “It costs money to hold this ceremony, but the entire sum is taken away by the university and nothing is passed on to colleges,” said a principal.
 
 
