Nashik: The   ( ) has stressed the need for the civic body to take over the bus services in the city as soon as possible.

 “I would like to appeal to the newly elected corporators to discuss and take a decision on the issue at the earliest. The   (NMC) should make budgetary allocations for the sector. A transport committee should be formed to oversee how to strengthen the bus services in Nashik,” state transport minister and MSRTC chairman   told TOI. 
 
 Raote said though the MSRTC has trying hard to provide proper public bus services in the city, it was facing a plethora of problems, especially on the financial front. 
 
 “In fact, the MSRTC is bleeding financially as the revenue from the city bus services is unimpressive. We are unable to pay wages to our staffers involved in the city service,” he said. 
 
 Unlike in rural areas, where the MSRTC incurs a loss of about Rs 3 a km, the transport utility is suffering a loss of Rs 10 a km in the city. 
 
 Faced with huge losses, the MSRTC recently trimmed its services on routes in the city that were not generating revenues for the corporation. Among the areas where the services have been trimmed are parts of Gangapur Road, Satpur, Ambad, Pathardi Phata, Ozar, Deolali Camp, Makhmalabad and Bhagur. 
 
 The MSRTC had approached NMC to take over the city bus services in the past, but the latter did not respond to it. 
 
 The MSRTC has a fleet of about 260 buses to cater to the commuters in the city, which is inadequate as the population of the city is increasing. But due to its poor fiscal health, the corporation is unable to strengthen the fleet. 
 
 In absence of proper public bus services, a large section of the commuters has to bank heavily on autorickshaws and many commuters complain about being fleeced during their three-wheeler rides. 
 
 “It is not obligatory on part of the MSRTC to provide bus services in the city. But we are doing it since the NMC is not ready to shoulder it,” an MSRTC official said. 
 
 The BJP, which has come to power in NMC, had in its manifesto for the civic polls spelled out to strengthen the city’s public transport system. 
 
 Even a section of the NMC officials feels that the civic body should look after this aspect since it involves a large section of the population who have to commute daily either for going to office or schools and colleges and back home.
 
