UDAIPUR: Thirty-five years ago,   had left his family and home in   for a   who he had fallen in love with. Now, when he is ailing his family doesn't want to take him back. 

 Back then, Gheeya had paid no heed to his parents and siblings who tried to stop him. He married the woman and settled in Strasbourg city. He had turned his back to his ailing parents and even filed a suit against his father claiming rights in the family property. He didn't even come home when his father died 15 years ago. But now at 61, Gheeya is a shattered man. 
 
 Having undergone two heart operations and  , i.e., lymphoma cancer, he is too weak and finds himself 'stranded' in France with no one to look after him and his ailing wife. Gheeya had posted a heart-rending appeal on the social media asking people to help him get back home. In the video, Gheeya is seen in much pain and craving for love and care. 
 
 "After spending so many years in France, I have realized the value of Indian culture and the love one feels for one's motherland. French culture ends with eating, drinking and sex," Gheeya says in his visual posts. 
 
 His wife is suffering from arthritis and osteoporosis and, thus, unable to move around. The video immediately caught the attention of external affairs minister   who tweeted to the Indian ambassador in Paris to arrange for the couple to be sent to India at government expense. Swaraj also communicated with Udaipur MP Arjunlal Meena and asked him to contact Gheeya's family members in Udaipur to take him back. "I personally went to meet Gheeya's brother, who is a doctor and lives in Kumavatwada colony. I also spoke to his sister but the family doesn't want to take him back at all as they are very hurt by his behaviour in the past," Meena told TOI. 
 
 Realizing that a reconciliation is not possible, the MP has found other alternatives for Gheeya's treatment and stay. "We have found one or two old age homes where the couple can stay and get proper treatment. If they are not comfortable here, we will arrange for their lodgings in Delhi," the MP said. 
 
 Meena also spoke to Gheeya on mobile and assured him of all the assistance for his return. "He is too weak to travel immediately, so it may take ten days for him reach India," Arjunlal Meena said.
 
