HYDERABAD: With liquor shops now allowed to stay open till 11 pm, as against the earlier deadline of 10 pm, several residents of Kukatpally, Miyapur and Madhapur, are worried. Reason: a thick crop of wine shops that have mushroomed along this stretch of late.

  commuters in particular pointed out how the proximity of these liquor shops to bus stops and the approach roads to their apartments now makes them feel unsafe while travelling alone on stretches such as Allwyn Colony X Road-Gachibowli, KPHB Colony Road and Hi-Tec City Main Road.
 
 “In the Hi-Tec City area, wine and liquor shops have mushroomed along most roads and one such shop can be found within every kilometre on the Hi-Tec City main road which runs through Mad hapur. The wine shops are located very close to the hostels, paying guest accomodations and apartments in the Madhapur area, making one feel unsafe while returning from work,“ said who resides in a rented accommodation in the Madha pur area.
 
 Others pointed out how consumption of alcohol, right on the spot, was also a common sight at these roadside wine shops.
 
 “The state government has extended the deadline to 11 pm, only taking revenue into consideration. Most of the small liquor outlets have bars right beside their counters and people can often be found consuming liquor in plastic glasses right outside the wine shops,“ lamented   ,a resident of KPHB Colony.“People, in an inebriated state, are often found creating nuisance on the roads.The excise department must conduct strict checks to ensure that liquor is not served to customers at these wine shops,“ she added.
 
 Pradeep Dutt, secretary general of Hotels and Restaurants Association, Telangana, also called for stricter checks and inspections to curb the menace.
 
 “This is a problem that persists across roadside liquor outlets in the city that even police officials are aware of. People are found consuming alcohol right outside these establishments, either inside or behind the shop or right on the roadside. These wine shops also have a ready stock of plastic glasses which people use,“ said Dutt.
 
