The language of diplomacy finds delicate expression with the new US first lady,  .

 While US president   was golfing with  , haranguing Japan to allow US auto companies and defending his decision to kill the TPP trading arrangement, Melania accompanied   on a walk through a Japanese garden in Florida. But it was Melania’s carriage that stood out. 
 
 As a former model, the first lady forbore to tower over her guest, instead traipsing through the garden in flat pumps, maintained eye-level contact with Akie.
 
 This was the most visible sign of the extreme courtesy that the FLOTUS offered her Japanese counterpart – perhaps a valuable counterpoint to Trump who is not known to appreciate such subtle nuances.
 
 Akie Abe is no lightweight first lady herself: in Japan, Mrs Abe has carved out a space for herself as an independent voice in a maledominated nation, so the significance of Melania’s action would not be lost on her.
 
 Melania is not alone, American leaders have, over the years, displayed the kind of deference and courtesy to the Japanese that have often prompted Chinese commentators to question why the Japanese don’t hate the Americans much more for dropping nuclear bombs on them.   invited criticism in Washington for making a deep bow to   in 2009, during his first visit to Japan.
 
 Further back, Bill Clinton, hosting Emperor Akihito in the   in 1994 effected a quasi-bow to the emperor also evoking a sneer from Washington’s protocol gurus. But he escaped censure because Emperor Akihito responded with an ‘un-emperor-like’ gesture, by raising his glass in a toast at the white-tie banquet.
 
 In 1945, it was Emperor Hirohito who bowed his nation out of World War II with a radio address scripting Japan’s surrender to the allies, allowing Gen MacArthur to decide his future role. 
 
 Seventy years on, the US-Japan relationship is possibly the most evolved alliance between two modern nations, where the bow is very different in quality to the kowtow the Chinese prefer.
 
 Not too long ago, the then candidate Trump had declared that treaty allies like Japan and Korea needed to pull their weight in their US alliances, perhaps even develop nuclear weapons of their own. This weekend is likely to open new doors for the Japan-US alliance.
 
