HYDERABAD: While Team India counted its positives in the one-off   at Rajiv Gandhi International Stadium on Sunday,  , a former India player and  , was recounting his loss.

 Bobjee as he is fondly called in local circles, had migrated to Ireland after his playing days and won much acclaim – he played and coached there for 27 years. He was conferred with Order of the   (MBE) by Queen Elizabeth II in 2011.
 
 Back in the city as director of Hyderabad Cricket Academy of Excellence at the Gymkhana Grounds since 2015, Rao told the media that the MBE medallion was stolen when he was invited to be guest of honour at the Aurora Degree College on January 28. A police complaint has been lodged.
 
 “I’m very disappointed. The medallion is very dear to me. Fortunately, I didn’t bring the original citation with me from Ireland or I’d have lost it too. I took it with me to the college because I thought kids would be interested to see it,” he said.
 
 The Hyderabadi’s Test career was brief and numbers modest. Rao was skipper when his team won the Ranji Trophy for the second time in 1986-87. He played four Tests between December 1978 and October 1979, scored 46 runs with a highest of 20 not out and leg spin fetched him three wickets after the Hyderabad all-rounder replaced BS Chandrasekhar in the Indian squad.
 
 His first-class career is more impressive, though. He totalled 4,845 runs at 40.71 and claimed 245 wickets at 28.05 in 108 matches. But it was his work in Ireland that got him much recognition. Rao played a big role in grooming players like Eoin Morgan, the current England T20 skipper, Ed Joyce, the O’Brien brothers Kevin and Niall, and skipper William Potterfield.
 
 Rao went to Ireland as a professional cricketer in 1988 when five players — Surinder Amarnath, Raman Lamba, Venkat Sundaram, Parthasarathi Sharma and Rao — signed through their agent. “I thought I would go for a week and return, but the people were nice and the cricket was quite relaxing,” Rao recalled.
 
 That visit changed his life and he went to Ireland year after year, met his Irish wife, came to Hyderabad for nine months before moving back to UK. Strabane, Northern Ireland became home and he even played for Ireland in 1994.
 
 Cricket apart, Rao also contributed to Irish social and cultural aspects. He was the chairperson of Northern Ireland Council of Ethnic Minorities in Dublin and worked actively to promote multi-culturalism for Strabane Ethnic Community Association (SECA).
 
 Rao was the coach when Ireland made their Under-19 World Cup debut in Sri Lanka in 2000 and nearly stunned Australia before losing narrowly. All that, however, are just fond memories for the 62-year-old as he pines for his lost medallion.
 
