INDORE: Barely a week after a Dalit family went against the diktat of upper caste members to not play music and band at the marriage of a girl in Agar Malwa district, a well used by a group of Dalit families in Agar Malwa district was polluted with kerosene rendering it unusable for several days.

 This led to tension in the Maanna village. Soon after reports of the incident came out, senior officials rushed to the village and spoke to villagers in a bid to calm them.
 
 On April 23,   was married off in the village by her father in the presence of large police contingent and administrative officials, after the upper caste members issued threat against playing music band during the wedding function.
 
 “Soon after the marriage, we found that someone poured kerosene into the well that supplied water to around 100 families of the lower caste,” Mamta’s father   told TOI.
 
 The well, constructed 1.5km away from the habitat, was originally used for irrigation. But with water becoming scarce and   drying up in the village, it was the only source of drinking water.
 
 “We are now forced to draw water from Kalisindh river, 4 km from the village,” he said.
 
 On whether it was a handiwork of the upper caste, the bride’s father said, “I can’t say that with certainty. But the no one poured kerosene before we ignored their threats, that’s a fact.”
 
 Police have taken note of the matter and have registered a case against unknown persons, said Agar Malwa district collector DV Singh, adding “A team of administrative officials was immediately rushed to the village. The water was drained out and the well cleaned. Now the water from the well can be consumed.”
 
 The officials have also taken a sample of the water and sent it for testing.
 
 On Friday, Singh led a team of officials to hold discussions with the Dalits and upper caste members. “No one admitted who put the oil or kerosene in the well. The elders were perturbed by the happenings,” he said.
 
 The recent incident has created unrest. “This is the first time I have seen such a polarization. We are keeping a watch on the developments in the village,” Singh said.
 
 The collector has also ordered digging of two tube-wells in the village to ensure proper drinking water supply. “PHE department is working on it and the tube-wells are expected to be drilled by next Saturday,” the collector said.
 
