Pankaj Doval & Mayur Shetty | TNN

 New Delhi/Mumbai: Trouble for Anil Ambani’s debt-laden telecom venture   ( ) increased after the company on Sunday said that its merger deal with controversial   has been called off due to “inordinate delays” caused by “legal and regulatory uncertainties and various interventions by vested interests”.
 
 The company, which has a debt burden of nearly Rs 46,700 crore, has been desperately looking for a survival plan. The termination by “mutual consent” was approved by RCom’s board, which reviewed the “ongoing strategic transformation programme, and considered alternate plans for debt reduction”.
 
 If the deal had gone through, it would have enabled junior Ambani’s telecom company to pare debt by nearly Rs 14,000 crore as this would have flowed into the combined entity. His group is grappling with massive debt servicing burden at a time when finances are under strain.
 
 The deadline for closing the deal was December, the time granted by banks for the company to work out a turnaround plan under the   ( ) scheme. The company, however, hopes to buy time from banks till December 2018 as it looks at other ways to raise funds, including by monetisation of real-estate chunks in New Delhi and Navi Mumbai and sale of tower and fiber assets. RCom said that it is evaluating an “alternate plan” for mobile business, but pointed to the difficult situation for telecom companies. “Unprecedented competitive intensity in the Indian telecom sector, together with fresh policy directives adversely impacting bank financing for this sector, have also seriously affected industry dynamics.”
 
 Analysts said that it will be very difficult to tide over the current troubles. “The merger being called off is not good news for RCom revival efforts, especially as it comes at a time when the industry is in a consolidation phase,” said Prashant Singhal, partner for the telecom sector at consulting firm Ernst & Young.
 
 Bankers also painted a grim picture, especially as they had pinned their hopes on this deal as well as the sale of telecom towers to Canada’s Brookfield, which can fetch Rs 11,000 crore to help RCom repay loans.
 
 Over a dozen banks, including  ,  ,   and  , have a significant exposure to RCom and some of them can see their bad loans increase by half-a-percentage point if they have to set aside more funds for repayment default by the telecom company. “The standstill period comes to an end in December. Conversion of debt to equity will also not take care of the loan, considering that the total debt is close to Rs 47,000 crore and the company has a market cap of less than Rs 5,000 crore,” said a bank executive.
 
 The National Company Law Tribunal is hearing a petition to admit an insolvency plea filed by Ericsson. The Swedish telecom equipment manufacturer is seeking to recover Rs 1,150 crore from RCom for payment towards the equipment that it had supplied earlier.
 
 
