1. ’Cos rain spells anything but gloom 

 After the sweltering summer, Hyderabad welcomes grey skies and soothing downpour with open arms. When else could the city create the perfect backdrop for you to take an Instagram-worthy selfie by the ‘Love Hyderabad’ structure? When else can you think of going on an impromptu long drive along Necklace Road or to   as the rain beats a tattoo on the car roof, and relish smoky bhutta or spicy mirchi bhajji with the showers kissing your face? Gorgeous and comforting, monsoon is really when the city is at its best.
 
 2. Run for glory, or just for fun
 Incredible India (a 10k Swacchh Bharat Run),   and Kids’ Marathon will keep runners on their feet this season. Then there’s an offbeat event — Run for   5k Run/Walk and a   5 KM Obstacle Run. Phew! Truly, monsoon here is marathon season.
 
 3. Polo time again
 After the sweltering summer, Hyderabad welcomes grey skies and soothing downpour with open arms. When else could the city create the perfect backdrop for you to take an Instagram-worthy selfie by the ‘Love Hyderabad’ structure? When else can you think of going on an impromptu long drive along Necklace Road or to Golconda as the rain beats a tattoo on the car roof, and relish smoky bhutta or spicy mirchi bhajji with the showers kissing your face? Gorgeous and comforting, monsoon is really when the city is at its best.
 4. Time to Tune in and go into a trance 
 
 Monsoon and music make for a heady mix and no one knows that better than Hyderabadis. While the annual favourite,   set the tone for the season, coming up next is Monsoon Nirvana on July 29 where non-Bollywood notes rendered by up and coming singers will rent the air. 
 Says Harini Ganti, founder of Cisne For Arts, which is organising the event, “Monsoon is the most magical season for music with so many ragas dedicated to it.” This week, a musical evening dedicated to the Burmans and a Hindustani classical music concert on July 16 will keep music lovers busy. And then, there’s a host of classical music events lined up at 
 cultural venues across the city.
 5. It’s sailing season at Hussain Sagar
 
 Li’l boats with colourful sails circling around the Buddha statue as hordes of enthusiastic denizens, armed with cameras park themselves on the benches — a common sight at the Hussain Sagar Lake during monsoon. “Hyderabad becomes the sailing capital of the country in June and July as sea-sailing clubs shut shop due to strong winds,” says Suheim Shiekh, president of Yatch Club of Hyderabad. While the recently-concluded Hyderabad Sailing Week kickstarted the season, the ongoing Telangana Open Laser Championship (Youth) and the 9th Monsoon Optimist Open Regatta ensure it’s going to be a packed month or two.
 
 
 
 
 
