PANAJI: Both travel in Innovas, don’t tuck in their shirt, wear sandals and draw crowds in droves wherever they go. Both went to IIT. The similarities end there.

 As the   here in the run-up to the  , Defence Minister   and Delhi CM   are using contrasting styles in the fierce contest for Goa.
 
 Parrikar, of course, did that for the BJP in 2012 when he convinced people to turf out the state’s ‘corrupt’ Congress government. This time, Kejriwal is going flat out to turn the tables on the BJP. 
 
 Since addressing a well-attended rally in Panaji — Parrikar’s bastion since 1994 — and launching AAP’s campaign here last May, Kejriwal’s been in and out of Goa, meeting volunteers and addressing meetings in party strongholds. Wherever he goes, he unfailingly reminds voters how Parrikar went back on his promises, particularly on recovering the Rs 36,000 crore mining-scam loot and jailing the guilty.
 
 “…There’s a setting (sic) between Parrikar and Digambar (Kamat) (former Congress CM of Goa). I ask Parrikar…What's the deal between you and Digambar? Where is the Rs 36,000 crore you promised to recover?” Kejriwal recently said at a rally in Margao, Goa’s commercial capital and Kamat’s home.
 
 At Chimbel, dominated by the Indiranagar slum with some 5,000 votes, Kejriwal promised that if his party won, it won’t make a “U-turn”, taunting the defence minister, who was Goa CM before his party moved him to Delhi.
 
 Kejriwal’s barbs at Parrikar make the defence minister’s supporters bristle. For them, he’s ‘Bhai’ and they can’t bear to see anyone raise a finger at him.
 
 “You can’t equate Bhai to Kejriwal. The only IITian who matters in politics is Bhai. He has done so much for Goa’s aam aadmi. What has Kejriwal done in Delhi,” asks Paresh Kamat, a bank employee. An IIT-Mumbai graduate, Parrikar, doesn’t give any importance to Kejriwal, an IIT-Kharagpur alumnus, or to his party. “The only party that matters is the BJP. I won’t speak of anyone else,” Parrikar told TOI.
 
 Unlike Kejriwal, who has limited himself to addressing public meetings, Parrikar has been crisscrossing the state. 
 
 Last Sunday, he zipped across the Porvorim constituency addressing street-corner meetings.
 
 “Give us a stable government. Give us 26 seats and you’ll see progress,” Parrikar exhorts. Parrikar seldom mentions AAP, instead harps on development.
 
 “AAP is nowhere here,” Parrikar loves telling those who ask him about the ‘Delhi party’. Clearly, there’s no love lost between the two IITians and their parties in Goa’s poll battle.
 
