It has been 18 years, but for their families, the most memorable words of   continue to reverberate with the same energy. 

 As ministers, students and families paid homage on Wednesday to   who lost their lives in the Kargil conflict of 1999, TOI met with some families who lost their sons but gained the gratitude of the nation. 
 
 Several cultural performances by students graced the occasion of ‘Kargil Vijay Diwas’ at  . While boys relived the moments of Army personnel on the border, girls presented a beautiful rendition of national song Vande Matram. 
 
 The families of martyrs were felicitated by governor Ram Naik and chief minister Aditya Nath Yogi.
 
 
 
 “’Qatra qatra khoon ka baha doonga desh ke liye (I will shed every drop of my blood for my country).’ These were his last words to me on the phone before his departure for Kargil. My eyes filled with tears but I replied that he should win that piece of land back for the country and come back to cheer those moments and make all us proud,” said Mahat’s 56-year-old mother Bina. 
 
 “That entire week, I was glued to the television and radio all day. After a week, I got news that my 19-year-old Suneel was among the soldiers martyred fighting the enemy,” she added. 
 
 Born on November 13, 1979, Mahat wanted to join the Army since early days. His father NN Jang also served in the Army. Suneel got selected as a soldier immediately after finishing school. 
 
 “Suneel was nine when he took part in a college function on Independence Day. He pestered me to get an Army dress for his performance. He played the role of a soldier who is killed by the enemy. He often used to say, “Mom, one day you will be known by my name,” recalled Bina, adding, “Today, I am known by his name.”
 
 
 
 “An engineer can never fire a bullet into the chest of the enemy, but a soldier can. This was his reply to me when I insisted that he should select engineering as a career,” recalled Maj Ritesh Sharma’s 69-year-old father Satya Prakash Sharma. 
 
 Born on October 27, 1973, Maj Sharma was 25 when he was martyred in Kargil. 
 
 “He was very friendly with me. Before his selection in the Army at the age of 21, he used to say that he would take care of the country like an engineer takes care of his technology. He was commissioned to 17 Jat Regiment in 1995,” recalled Sharma. 
 
 “Ritesh was on vacation when he got a call from Srinagar. Within weeks, we were informed that Ritesh was a martyr. It felt like someone had snatched my property from me but I was so proud that my son gave his life for the nation. Today, I remember him like an engineer of the nation,” said Sharma.
 
 
 
 
 “For him, the nation was always first. He wanted me to be proud of him. During the Kargil war, when I heard that he had been martyred, it felt like I was lifeless. But his words gave me strength. My husband gave every drop of his blood to our nation and I am the wife of warrior Kevlanand,” said Kamla Devi, who attended Wednesday’s event. 
 
 
 
 
 The words ‘I can’t’ did not exist in Capt Pandey’s dictionary, said his father Gopi Chand Pandey. 
 
 “His was courageousness since childhood. Today, I am glad that I am called the father of martyred Capt Manoj Pandey. My friends call me the father of the   awardee,” said Pandey. 
 
 Born on June 25, 1975, Capt Pandey studied in Sainik School, Lucknow and later shifted to Rani Laxmi Bai Memorial Senior Secondary School. He had keen interest in both indoor and outdoor sports. 
 
 During his interview for Gorkha Rifles, he was asked ‘Why do you want to join the Army? His reply was that he wanted the Param Vir Chakra, said Pandey.
 
