Throughout June — LGBT Pride Month — Pune witnessed several forms of its commemoration. Take, for example, the Pune Pride March, that saw a turnout of over 700 people, the largest in Pune’s pride history, according to the organisers. Then, there was the Queer Poetry of Protest meet held at  , an attempt at expressing dissent through poetry. And many more... 

 Going by this, it seems like the city is quite accepting of the LGBTQ community. Yet, what you just read above is not ‘just another listicle’, but a compilation of what queer students from the city still get to hear; even worse, in the places where they spend a large share of their day — their colleges. Which led us to asking the question, ‘Does the queer community find acceptance in Pune’s colleges?’ 
 
 Before we begin, we must tell you that it took a while getting this student panel together. For obvious reasons, most of them requested to go on record sans their real names. So, for this discussion, we asked them take on the names of pop culture icons (real or fictional) who have impacted their idea of sexuality; or who they identify with...
 
 
 
 “It’s not like you’d be bullied, but not many are aware of the issues we face. It’s more so for the lesser known sexualities. In my college, there are gays and bisexuals, but I’m yet to come across someone who’s openly transgender, asexual or pansexual. The apathy isn’t negative. It’s of the positive kind.” — JJ
 
 “To cite an analogy, it’s like colleges being apathetic to the differently-abled. The problems they face don’t even occur to the authorities. In my college, it was only during the NAAC process, that they began building ramps everywhere. We have a dedicated cell to assist visually-impaired students (providing examination writers, guiding them to class, etc), but when it comes to the LGBTQ community, it doesn’t even strike the authorities that there’s a need for a support group of any kind.” — AS
 
 
 
 “It comes from family. The sheer kind of talk among immediate family is discomforting. A relative once said, ‘I don’t have a problem with queer people, but I would feel uncomfortable if there was one in the same room.’ I haven’t been judged by my peers, the people I’m selectively related to; but one would expect open minded families to be more supportive.” — HC
 
 “In the conservative milieu I come from, homophobia percolates even to the kind of shows we watch. Take, for example, Cam and Mitchell from  , a happy gay couple in the show. According to my family, a gay couple can’t be happy. Why? Because they can’t procreate!” — VC
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 “When I came out to my friends, I was crying, wondering what would happen next. But they comforted me saying that I should be proud of who I am. But that’s when it comes to close friends. Talking about bigger groups (your class, etc), you have to get used to seeing homophobic jokes on the common WhatsApp group. It makes you sceptical about how things would turn out if you actually came out to everyone.” — LL
 
 “It hadn’t even struck me that I could be anything but straight till I came to college. Here, I was lucky enough to pick classes that gave me knowledge about it. For my dissertation, I want to research about the community, and I haven’t been told not to pursue it. I can openly tell people that I’m doing this and possibly even come out to my professors.” — PW
 
 
 
 
 “Many medical officers and teachers still don’t understand alternate sexuality. Hence, they can’t even imagine the hardships the community faces. A large part of the awareness building needs to be invested in teachers and even parents.” — CJ
 
 “I think there should also be concrete scientific research done on LGBTQ issues by institutions. Students must also be encouraged to pick it up for dissertation. This will give the issue more logical backing and legitimacy.” — PW
 
 “Activism through art is another way. We’ve been doing a series of poetry sessions to acknowledge the struggles of marginalised communities. We even attempted queer poetry and got a good response. Likewise, we need to curate and support queer artists around us.” — PW
 
 
 
 
 
