Vijayawada: A recent notification by the Reserve Bank of India ( ) has put the District Central Cooperatives (DCCBs) in a fix.

 The notification, issued on June 29, 2017, says that currency   collected by the DCCBs from November 10 to 14, 2016 only will be accepted. The remaining specified bank notes (SBNs), held at the close of transactions on November 8, 2016 and still not deposited, will not be accepted by RBI.
 
 This means the balance of SBNs on November 8 - the day when note ban was announced - will now have to be treated as dead cash and written off. The written off amount will reduce the banks' profits proportionately, say sources in the cooperative banks.
 
 “SBNs accepted by DCCBs from November 15, 2016 onwards are not acceptable under the facility,” the notification said.
 
 In regular course, these notes have to be accepted by RBI. The notes, as on balance of November 8, were taken to the currency chest a couple of days later. "Though run by commercial banks, cash at currency chest where the money is kept is technically under RBI. But the notes were turned down at the chests citing a rush due to note-ban. Finally, RBI refused to accept the notes altogether," said a source in DCCB.
 
 The RBI’s move comes in the backdrop of demonetisation being declared on the evening of November 8 and the banks reopening on November 10 after a four-day break. On November 14, the DCCBs were stopped from collecting the banned notes. During the four-day period, DCCBs across the country collected SBNs running into thousands for crores. All banks were supposed to deposit SBNs with the RBI before December 30. The DCCBS were, however, not allowed to do so.
 
 Now, many are left with a lot of old currency. Unless the RBI accepts it, the banks cannot get valid currency in exchange for it. After the matter went to court, the RBI issued a notification stating that SBNs lying with DCCBs will be accepted till July 19. But the central bank, in a subsequent notification issued a few days back, said the depositing facility will be available from November 10 to 14.
 
 The officials said that some district cooperative banks will stand to lose in the state. “At our bank, we do not have such a problem but some banks do have,” K S Subramanyam, chief executive officer of the Krishna District Cooperative Central Bank Limited (KDCBL) said. 
 
 
