MUMBAI: The Supreme Court on Friday afternoon directed  , a public hospital in central Mumbai to assess the abnormality in the case of a 21-year-old Navi Mumbai housewife's 23-week-old foetus.

 The pregnant woman, along with her gynceologist Dr Nikhil Datar, moved the apex court on Thursday after ultrasound scans done a couple of week back revealed that her unborn child didn't have kidneys. This is the third case in the last six months that the Supreme Court has directed to KEM Hospital's medical board for an opinion. The three women moved the court seeking permission to abort their malformed foetus beyond the time-limit of 20 weeks.
 
 "The Supreme Court said it was directing the matter to a KEM Hospital medical board for an opinion," said the petitioner lawyer Sneha Mukherji the Human Rights Law Network on Friday. "The court has called for the next hearing on Tuesday," she added.
 
 Dr Avinash Supe, dean of KEM Hospital, said, "We will do as per the Supreme Court's directions. We will try to complete the assessment on Saturday itself.''
 
 Incidentally, this is the second case this year that pregnant women have moved the Supreme Court for permission for an abortion. In January, a Dombivli woman had won Supreme Court's nod to medically terminate her foetus that had severe brain anomaly.
 
 Indian laws allow abortion till 20 weeks of pregnancy, but around a dozen cases have, in the recent past, moved the apex court seeking permission to abort beyond this deadline. The Centre had prepared a draft bill allowing abortion up to 24 weeks, but there has been not development thereafter. On Friday, Dr Datar said, "Till some amendment is made, we should have some guidelines or an ordinance so that women don't have to rush to the Supreme Court every time.''
 
 In the latest case, the 21-year-old woman, identified as Mrs X in the writ petition filed on Thursday, pleaded for the right to terminate beyond the deadline as the foetus doesn't have kidneys and would be unviable with life.
 
