Her family had to pledge jewellery so that the daughter could hit the international boxing scene in 2016. Now, this young woman from   will be putting on her boxing gloves to take on a Russian champion in a professional bout.

 Meet Bhopal’s very own 'Lady Rocky Balboa'. The 22-year-old Purnima Rajput, daughter of a home guard constable, is all set to make her debut in the professional circuit of women's boxing in front of her home crowd at Tatya Tope stadium on Tuesday.
 
 Purnima’s five-year journey into the world of boxing has been stacked against odds. “Just couple of years back, buying a boxing kit was a distant dream for my family. It is the support of my family that made it possible for me to reach this stage,” recalled the 22-year-old boxer.
 
 While Russia’s European champion Panian (whom Purnima is going to fight) has received specialised training from an army of coaches and trainers, this Bhopali boxer takes a bus to the stadium everyday for practice.
 
 Purnima’s father Anand Singh Rajput, a resident of Kolar, had to give up studies after class 11 for financial reasons. Her mother Kusum Singh Rajput is a homemaker. A few years back, Anand was driving an autorickshaw but had to give it up as he found it difficult to manage with his duty as a home guard.
 
 While narrating his daughter’s journey, Anand said, “Credit goes to my niece Anita Rajput, who, despite being blind, completed her BEd. Purnima was inspired by her.”
 
 Purnima was selected for MP Boxing Academy by coach Roshan Lal during a talent-hunt. “I was impressed with her since her days in summer camp. I had never seen a budding boxer hitting such a strong punch. She is a born talent. The only need was to brush up her skills,” said Roshan.
 
 After joining the sports academy in 2010, Purnima won her first bronze medal in a senior national tournament in 2013.
 
 About Tuesday’s fight, Purnima said, “I am all prepared to fight the Russian. She is more experienced and a big name in the boxing world. But I am undeterred. I am not going to let her defeat me in front of my home crowd.”
 
 
