Shri Vaishnav Polytechnic College, that is known for absorbing the best students and providing them great placements, has become a hotspot of rage and  . Students have been staging protests on campus since February 22, asking the administration to revoke their sudden   in the tuition  . Read on.

 
 
 
 Throwing some light on how the protests started, Deepak Singh Parihar, a first year production engineering student says, “Around February 20, the college announced a sudden hike of `9,000 in the tuition fee of all diploma courses in the midterm and asked students to settle the difference amount by February 28, latest. Our tuition fee is `13,500 and the miscellaneous fees is `6,000. With the hike, our tuition fee is now `28,500. The college is a trust aided institution unlike other Vaishav Polytechnic Colleges in other cities. Over 500 students have resorted to staging a protest because we want authorities to revoke the hike, and the college to be taken over by the state government rather than the trust.”
 
 
 
 
 It’s been more than 10 days now, and the students don’t seem to be backing off. The issue was escalated and brought to the notice of the CM and that has given students the hope that a decision will be taken in their favour, soon. Saurabh Sengar, a first year student of mechanical branch shares, “Chief Minister   was in the city on February 22 for the inaugural ceremony of the passport office. A few students who are fervently fighting to get the hike revoked went to the passport office and urged the district administration to arrange a meeting with the CM. Since we had already protested outside the collector’s office, the collector knew about the gravity of the situation and helped us meet with the CM. A written application was given to him and he assured us that the district administration will do something about it.” But when no decision was taken till March 1, the students started protesting again. “This compelled the Collector to send the SDM and a TI to the college and inform us that a meeting with the Technical Education Minister would be arranged soon.”
 
 
 
 
 Though students are crying foul, campus placements seem to be taking place without any problem. When asked if the protests are creating any problems in the functioning of the college, DMG, Head of Department of first year said, “The protest isn’t affecting the regular working of the college, since the students stage   only during lunch hours. Classes are being held regularly and even the placements are going on smoothly. The staff aren’t involved in the demonstrations, but when the students stage protests, we make sure that the situation doesn’t go out of control. Also, the right to decide on fee structure rests with the district administration and not with the college authorities.”
 However, the students are certain to continue with the demonstrations. “If nothing moves in our favour soon, we will march a silent protest at Mhow Naka and if that doesn’t work, we will go on a hunger strike post Holi,” says Deepak Singh Parihar.
 
  
  
 
