NEW DELHI: Taking a leaf out of the Centre’s book,   Chief Minister   has asked for a review of the performance of all state government officers above the age of 50 by July 31 and said the non-performers or those facing any taint should be compulsorily retired.
 
  Such officers can be told to hang their boots and go home by serving them a notice of three months and not citing any reasons for the move, UP’s new Chief Secretary   has said in an order to all departments on Thursday. Kumar took over as the Chief Secretary just few days ago after being brought back to UP from the Centre where he was serving as the Union Shipping Secretary. This order is being seen as his first big move to clean up UP’s infamous bureaucracy.
  
  The Centre under   has been carrying out such review of central officers above age of 50 and retiring some in public interest. Replication of this exercise in UP could ruffle the bureaucracy there which is already facing a spate of transfers. The normal age of retirement is 60 years.
  
  “Under Fundamental Rules -56, the competent authority at any time can serve a three-month notice to an official above 50 years of age and send him on  . No reasons need to be cited in the said notice,” says the order issued by Rajiv Kumar. He says in the order that though the provision has been there in the rule-books for long, the same has not been implemented in UP. “All department heads should conduct screening of record of officials above the age of 50 as in March 31, 2017 and complete the exercise by July 31,” Rajiv Kumar has said in the order.
  
  The Modi government has been serious in taking action against non-performing officials to cut out dead wood or black sheep from its ranks as per a standard drill too. 30 Group A officers and 99 Group B officers had been sent on retirement in the past few months by the Centre after they completed 50 years of age. 24,000 Group A officers and 42,251 Group B officers were put under the scanner before the recent compulsory retirements while the government was looking into service records of another 34,451 Group A officers and 42,521 from Group B. 
