PUNE: Education minister   on Thursday said orphans and children of widowed, divorced or single mothers are also allowed to avail   under the   if they meet the terms of the act. 

 Tawde said that he had always made it clear that children belonging to these categories were allowed, but problems arose at the local level as the bodies implementing the admission process refused to take the mother’s documents as official papers for the child. Moreover, the website also made it compulsory to name and submit the father’s documents.
 
 The list of documents declared on the official   website of the state specifically asks for the father’s caste certificate, which made it impossible for such women to admit their wards. The admission forms in schools also make it mandatory to fill in the father’s name.
 
 Schools generally reject any application if the documents of the father are not submitted stating the lack of documents or incomplete application form as the reason.
 
 As per the Right to Education Act, 2009, 25% seats in entry-level class in schools (unaided and non-minority schools) must be reserved for students belonging to communities that are economically where the annual income is less than Rs 1 lakh or socially those belonging to SC, ST or VJNT disadvantaged. Students with more than 50% disability are also eligible to apply under this Act. The students will get free education from Std I to VIII.
 
 An official of the education department said, “India is a patriarchal society and it is hard for many to accept the mother’s document when it comes to authorizing if a child is eligible for admissions under RTE. The concept of single mothers is yet to be accepted by the society. But this needs to change.”
 
 The official further said that orphans with no documents or residing in orphanages should also be given a chance. “If an orphan child is living with his uncle or aunt, the documents of the guardians should be enough to get the child admitted under RTE considering they fall under the socially- or economically-weaker sections of the society. If the child is living in an orphanage, then that should be taken as the residence proof and provisions must be made to not ask for the parents’ documents if there are none,” the official added.
 
 When questioned if there was a letter asking education department officials dealing with RTE admissions to accept documents of single, widowed or divorced mothers or orphans, Pune division’s deputy director of education Dinkar Temkar said, “We had not sent any letter as such, we had just told them orally. We will discuss the matter and issue a circular.”
 
 Last year, many such cases of divorced mothers not being able to secure admissions for their children came forward. Members of Kagad Kach Patra Kashtkari Panchayat had come to the fore to fight for their rights, but the education department did nothing. 
 
 Commissioner of education Dheeraj Kumar said the department would look into the matter urgently and would try to make provisions to secure admissions for these children this year itself. “Otherwise, from next year, the wards of divorced, widowed, single mothers and orphans would be allowed to apply to 25% admissions under RTE. We will see if there needs to be any change done in the website. For example, in cases of single mother, the compulsory slot to write father’s name would be removed from the online admission form,” Kumar said.
 
