CHANDIGARH: It was a violent Holi at   in Hisar district's Hansi sub-division on Monday, as three men were killed and two injured, one of them critically, after two groups allegedly exchanged gunfire for over half an hour over a rivalry. While the dead include a  , a   and a youth, the 25 accused in the case include the  .

 Union leader  , BSF jawan Pradeep Kumar and Pradeep's cousin Mukesh died on the spot after Kasana's neighbour and friend-turned-foe, Subhash Gujjar, allegedly barged into his house on Monday afternoon along with 20 others and started firing indiscriminately.
 
 Kasana's family retaliated, but five people in the house fell to the hail of bullets. Pradeep was a neighbour of Kasana and had come to his house along with Mukesh to celebrate Holi when the attack took place. Mahinder Singh, whose condition is said to be critical, is under treatment at a private hospital in Hisar. A bullet also hit Mahinder's brother, but he is said to be out of danger. Police force has been deployed in the village to avoid any further conflict. An argument between Subhash and Kasana's son, Dev Kumar, on Monday morning is said to be the reason behind the attack. Kasana and Subhash were friends earlier, but they had parted ways during panchayat elections last year and the tension between the two led to Monday's violence.
 
 Hansi DSP Bhagwan Dass is among the accused in the   registered at Hansi Sadar police station after the attack. However, it is said that Dass was not present on the spot when the firing took place. Dass's daughter is the sarpanch of the village. Subhash had supported her during the panchayat elections and had parted ways with Kasana to back her in the polls.The family of the deceased has alleged that they had approached Dass several times to complain against Subhash, but he did not pay heed to their requests.
 
 The houses of Subhash and Kasana are across a lane in the village. BSF sepoy Pradeep had come home on leave.
 
 Ram Kishan's son Sanjay alleged that Subhash and his accomplices kept firing at them for half an hour. “Subhash and his men had left the place after issuing strange threats. My family had been approaching DSP Dass against Subhash, but he never paid heed to our representations,“ he said.
 
 Soon after the incident, Hisar superintendent of police (SP) Rajinder Kumar Meena rushed to the spot.
 
 Police parties raided Subhash's house and seized a motorcycle, unused cartridges and sharp-edged weapons. “We have rounded up eight persons in the case and are interrogating them. It is only after the receipt of autopsy report, we will be able to ascertain the weapons used and the injuries caused to the victims,“ said SP Meena.
 
 Meena confirmed that DSP Dass was one of the accused and his daughter had contested against Kasana. “But we are verifying all the facts whether this incident had anything to do with rivalry. We are also verifying if Kasana's family had complained to the DSP or on any other platform,“ he said.
 
