KOLKATA: Upping the ante against the Clinical Establishment (Registration, Regulation and Transparency) Bill 2017, the Indian Medical Association (IMA) headquarters has decided to write to   seeking alterations to its provisions, including the clauses making doctors liable for criminal charges. 

 The IMA has pointed out that since clinical establishments have not been made accountable for medical negligence, doctors should be exempted from penal provisions as well. Last week, the regulatory body for doctors sent a letter to the Bengal governor asking him not to approve the bill. 
 
 The health department, on the other hand, has asked the police to provide them a list of all medical establishments in the state — inlcuding nursing homes and clinics — so that their existence can be verified and their names added to the register to be prepared in accordance with the new bill.
 
 “Nowhere in the act has it been mentioned that hospitals can also be charged with medical negligence. This is unfair considering that doctors can already be prosecuted under multiple acts. You can’t have a system in which doctors have multiple liabilities and hospitals have none,” said IMA president KK Aggarwal.
 
 Doctors across Bengal felt insecure and vulnerable, Aggarwal pointed out. “This is a major blow to private healthcare. Doctors are invariably at the forefront of the system, be it private or state-run hospitals. At the moment, they are being pushed to a corner and are being forced to face public ire. This will not help patients in any way. It will only make the system collapse. We sincerely hope the bill is amended and a single-window redress system for medical negligence is introduced,” said Aggarwal.
 
 The new bill requires the chief medical officer (health) of all districts other than Kolkata to act as the registering as well as licensing authority for all clinical establishments. If not satisfied, the licensing authority can declare an establishment illegitimate and withdraw its licence. To that end, the health department first wants a list of all legitimate clinical establishments in the state. Every police station area has been asked to enlist health establihments within its jurisdiction. 
 
 Even though the IMA has opposed the bill at the national level, the state unit has supported it. To secure support for the IMA legal action, a section of doctors in Kolkata came together for a meeting on March 10. It was decided that doctors in the city will continue to protest the bill till it was amended, relieving doctors of the criminal liabilities. The latter are now in consultation with various bodies and fora. “Our office-bearers across the country are putting their heads together as well. The IMA will put up a strong opposition to the bill,” said Aggarwal.
 
 
