MUMBAI: At a   conclave on Monday to commemorate the late Balasaheb’s 90th birth anniversary,   refrained from speaking on his party’s infructuous seat-sharing talks with the BJP for the upcoming  . “Let’s be peaceful and watch the game,” he remarked.

 Thackeray’s restraint is an indication that Matoshree may not be ready as yet to snap poll ties with the BJP. There are reports that chief minister Devendra Fadnavis was set to hold talks with Uddhav in an attempt to paper over the crisis.
 
 “I will speak on political issues on January 26,” said Thackeray. 
 
 This could be the Sena’s fresh deadline to the BJP, said political experts. Thackeray has planned a jamboree of senior Sena functionaries in Mumbai on Republic Day to review the party’s poll preparedness.
 
 In a statement indicating a thaw in the BJP-Sena ties, state BJP president Raosaheb Danve said on Monday that his party was awaiting a “positive proposal” from the Sena which could lead to an amicable seat-sharing formula. “Wherever possible, we will contest the civic polls with the Sena as our ally. Wherever not possible, we will strike out on our own,” said Danve.
 
 Referring to the recent Tamil Nadu crusade in support of jallikattu, Thackeray said Marathis should take a cue from Tamils and stand up for Maharashtra’s culture, language and tradition. “The Tamils displayed their collective strength and brought the Centre to its knees. This should be the spirit.”
 
 Thackeray flagged off the online edition of Saamna, the party mouthpiece which was launched on January 23, 1989. “We may not be wielding guns and swords, but we have Saamna with us,” he stated.
 
 Thackeray was addressing a party conclave in Mumbai to commemorate the 90th birth anniversary of the late Balasaheb Thackeray.
 
 Meanwhile, earlier in the day, Sena released its “vachan nama” (manifesto) at Sena Bhavan, the party headquarters.
 
 While stating the importance of the day—Bal Thackeray’s birth anniversary—Uddhav Thackeray said, “Today is January 23 and I am confident that by next 23 (February), Sena will have re-established its supremacy in a majority of corporations like Mumbai, Thane, Nasik.”
 
 Raising the red flag over the Metro-III car shed at Aarey Colony, Thackeray added that if the party comes to power again, it intends to retain the green zone reservation for the colony in the city’s development plan for the next 20 years, 2014-34.
 
 On the lines of the Union government, which proposed clubbing the railway budget with the general, Thackeray, too, announced BMC and BEST budgets together, to recover losses to the transport department. “It would be easy to manage the budgets,” said Thackeray.
 
 When asked whether Sena promises pothole-free roads in future, Thackeray said, “The pothole issue is everywhere, whether Pune or Nagpur. We are not backing potholes but the issue should be sorted out without politicizing it. We will definitely try to minimize potholes in the city,” said the Sena chief.
 
 On fulfilment of promises, Thackeray said whatever assurances they have given in the manifesto are not impractical but fall within the jurisdiction of the BMC.
 
 The Sena promised to develop a tourist spot on the eastern coast on a 900-acre MbPT plot. “The BMC can develop a new tourist spot if the Mumbai Port Trust (MbPT) hands over the 900-acre plot, which is lying vacant since years. It would help boost Mumbai’s economy.” 
 
 Sena promised to obtain all permissions for the Nariman Point-Dahisar coastal road in the next five years. However, he didn’t announced project completion date. “Tough Middle Vaitarna has been completed in three and a half years, it took almost nine years to obtain permissions.” 
 
 He assured free BEST bus travel to school-going students, a multi-purpose pass system and connecting buses, metro rails and local trains. To woo Mumbai’s “management guru” dabbawalas, he promised to construct a Dabbawala Bhavan in south Mumbai.
 
