Dandiya and garba frenzy has gripped everyone in Nagpur these days. While these are the two most popular dance forms this Navratri, another prominent one is   which is making waves among the youngsters, as preparations to give a power-packed performance on Ashtami and Navami are underway…
For the Bengalis, the actual Durga Puja festivities will start full swing from Panchami. And dhunuchi naach contests will be organised at various Durga pandals on Ashtami and Navami. So, a lot of youngsters have enrolled themselves for this unique contest. President of Ajni Puja Committee S S Guchhait says, “This year, 40 participants have registered till now. On Ashtami’s sandhya aarti, the participants will perform the dance, decked up in traditional Bengali finery and match the steps to the dhak beats.”
 Cultural secretary of CPWD pandal, Katol Road, Deepak Chowdhury says, “This is our 57th year of pujo and since day one, dhunuchi naach contest is being organised here. It is heartening to see that youngsters don’t merely compete for the prizes, it is devotion that drives them. So far, around 20 youngsters have registered with us, and we are sure many more will join in.”
 A mixture of coconut husk and dhoop powder is burnt in an earthen pot and the participant has to dance while holding it in his/her hands. Though there are risks involved, devotion and enthusiasm of the youngsters overpower all the fears. CA student Disha Banerjee says, “The smoke emanating from the pots is quite intense and it gets difficult to breathe during the dance. However, when I stand in front of Maa, I am filled with an energy that helps me perform well. This will be my second performance at the contest and I have already started to practise for two hours to perfect my dance steps.”
 Dhunuchi naach is performed across Bengali pujo pandals in Nagpur but it is not restricted merely to Bengali community. Management student Dilara Rehman, who moved from Kolkata to Nagpur last year, says, “In Bengal, members of all communities participate in these activities. These traditions bring all of us together. Though I am not a pro at dhunuchi naach, I will try and perform the dance at Nabanna Pujo Committee, Manish Nagar.”
  
  
 
 If you think only dandiya and garba has glamour quotient, think again. Dhunuchi naach is a combination of tradition with glamour. Entrepreneur   says, “I have already hired special makeup artists who will make me look like a Bengali goddess. I used to wear red border sari every year for the dance, but this year I will be wearing a red sari with jewellery, which is rarely worn during the dance. Adding drama to the look, I will paint a third eye on my forehead to look like Goddess Durga. Along with glamour, the performance has to be in sync with the dhak music and it is only because of the craft, the performer can create magic on stage.”
 
 Urmi's dhunuchi naach 
  
 
