CHANDIGARH: The Chandigarh bench of the   (AFT) has held that the soldiers who become disabled in wars before India became independent would also be entitled to injury pension along with those who met the same fate in the post-Independence wars. While setting aside the discrimination in disability benefits between soldiers injured in the pre-Independence and post-Independence wars, AFT has also directed the Centre to identify such soldiers and release their benefits without  .

 The AFT bench comprising   and   passed these orders while allowing a petition filed by So war Amar Singh of the Armoured Corps who was denied war injury pension by the Centre. In his plea before the AFT, Singh had submitted that despite being injured during World War II, he was being paid regular ' ' as admissible in cases of normal diseases incurred during service.
 
 He said it made no difference that soldiers were fighting for the British Crown since WW-II was fought against Fascist forces and the same British Indian Army was inherited by the post-Independence Indian Army with effect from August 15, 1947.
 
 Strongly contesting Singh's plea, the Centre, however, resisted the claim on the grounds that when war injury pension was initially introduced, it was made applicable only to post-Independence wars and disabilities in international `peacekeeping missions'.
 
 The concept of war injury pension to disabilities incur red in `international wars' was introduced only in January 1996 vide a letter in 2001, but since the soldier was a pre-1996 retiree, the said benefit could not be granted to him, the Centre had contended.
 
 Holding that Singh was entitled to war injury pension, the AFT bench held that no discrimination should be made by distinguishing between injuries suffered in various wars.
 
 The bench also reminded the government that the cutoff date of 1996 in the government letter had already been struck down by the Supreme Court and hence the same could not be used to deny such benefits.
 
 The AFT held that the petitioner was entitled to war injury pension with effect from January 1996.
 
 
 
 Over 2.6 million Indian troops had participated in World War II -double the strength of armed forces the country has at present. Many died in penury after being released without pension on reduction of India's military establishment. Those who were released with disabilities were denied war injury benefits. A defence ministry panel in November 2015 had also asked for resolution of this anomaly.
 
