PUNE: The cyber crime cell arrested two Nigerian nationals, one on Tuesday and the other on Wednesday, for using a magnetic card reader to clone debit and credit cards, swiping them at ATMs and withdrawing huge amounts of money, illegally. 

 One came to India on a medical visa and the other arrived on a student’s visa. Both their visas had expired in 2015.
 
  Several debit cards and Rs 1.8 lakh in cash was recovered from both. They were arrested under provisions of the IPC and the IT Act. 
 
 Ogbehase Fortune (43) and Bashar Dakin Garim Usman (27) would visit ATM kiosks in isolated places and withdraw money from them. Ogbehase was caught by a cyber cell team while effecting a transaction at an ATM kiosk in   on July 11. Both were remanded in police custody till July 18. 
 
 “We have arrested Nigerian nationals for   in Pune for the first time,” deputy commissioner of police (cyber crime)   said on Thursday.
 
 Police received a tip-off about Ogbehase after his image was caught on CCTV camera at an ATMs. Technical investigations confirmed his involvement. Later, they arrested his accomplice Bashar from his residence at Pirangut near Pune on Wednesday. 
 
 Police suspect them of using the cards at select petrol pumps for getting some money on a commission basis. 
 
 The involvement of more Nigerian nationals and others is suspected because they have used a magnetic card reader for cloning cards and used these cards in hotels, malls, pumps and ATM kiosks. 
 
 Ogbehase and Bashar were arrested on charges of duping an official   (45) of Ammunition Factory, Khadki to the tune of Rs 67,000 on June 24. The Khadki police had registered a case on July 11.
 
 “An inquiry with the bank showed that Ogbehase gave false details for opening a fictitious account. We obtained a link to his account and got his cellphone number. Investigations showed that he visited isolated ATMs for withdrawing huge sums illegally,” he added.
 
 Police teams waited at ATMs in Aundh, Sangvi and Baner. Ogbehase was caught red-handed while transacting at an ATM kiosk at Pimple-Gurav in Sangvi. A search conducted on his person led to the recovery of cash of over Rs 1 lakh.
 
 “Ogbehase gave Bashar’s name during interrogation. We then laid a trap and took him into custody after he arrived at his residence in Pirangut. The duo during interrogation claimed the cloned cards were supplied to them by other accomplices who are on the run. We are facing language problems while communicating with them,” he added.
 
 Police are conducting investigations to find out where the duo filed their “C” forms after arriving in India.
 
 
