They who welcome the revolutionary decision of Mathrubhumi, a media firm in Kerala, to give leave for women employees on the first day of their menstrual cycle

 It is every woman's right to take rest during menstruation and we should not treat it as an extra benefit given to them as it is not their choice or option but a biological phenomenon. We should not consider it a regressive or patriarchal move, comparing it with the age-old practice of asking women to stay away during their periods. If men in positions of power are trying to suppress the idea, I would like to ask them if they want their employees to work even when they are in utmost pain? Won't that affect their productivity? This is a revolutionary move and it is time for women and men to admit it.
 
 
 
 Kureepuzha Sreekumar, Poet
 It is every woman's right to take rest during menstruation and we should not treat it as an extra benefit given to them as it is not their choice or option but a biological phenomenon. We should not consider it a regressive or patriarchal move, comparing it with the age-old practice of asking women to stay away during their periods. If men in positions of power are trying to suppress the idea, I would like to ask them if they want their employees to work even when they are in utmost pain? Won't that affect their productivity? This is a revolutionary move and it is time for women and men to admit it.
 
 
 
 
 Alencier Ley, Actor 
 
 This is a fantastic move and it clearly indicates that women are being accepted in the mainstream work culture. Menstruation, which was once considered obnoxious, is actually being given due respect. We have been witnessing women getting sidelined in many professions for varied reasons, which results in their calibre not shining through. By availing a leave on the first day of periods, they themselves will become more confident to find that they are being considered and accepted in society. As it is optional, they always have the freedom to opt for it or not. There are women in sports, movies and many other fields who do not mind working during their menstrual cycle. From now on, it will be their choice alone.
 
 
 
 Dr Jerin Jose Cherian, Consultant, Clinical Pharmacology
 
 As someone heading a department that is 48-member strong, a majority of whom are women, I feel this decision is bound to have far reaching repercussions. In a work environment where women interact and are in close proximity to each other, there are chances that the McClintock effect (also known as menstrual synchrony) sets in.
  This could lead to quite a few of them having their periods around the same time as their dates coincide. The resulting acute, unpredictable staff shortage might be difficult to handle on a recurring basis. The question is how many institutions and companies will be ready to bear the brunt of such a move. Also there is the question of impact on performance, perceptions of organisational commitment, and allocation of organisational rewards. Also, given that women are entitled to certain additional leaves during work, institutions might be pressed to have second thoughts before recruitment. I might sound a bit regressive, but from a man’s point of view, while fever, headache and other ailments are what both genders go through, what is the male equivalent of a period leave? Is there an equal provision? Where is the gender equality that we wish for? In this era of female empowerment, this decision sounds crippling. 
 
 
 
 Sudheep J Salim, Media Professional
 
 Since I have sisters and women relatives, I am very much aware of the pain that a woman faces. I think the government should follow the lead and introduce this in its departments too. I was supportive of the first day of period leave but when I saw a social media post of one of my friends, I became wiser. She had mentioned that she faced menstrual difficulties during the second and third days. So instead of making it a first day leave, we should let the woman decide which day she should avail of this, depending on her physical condition.
 
 
 
 
 John Mathew, techie
 
 I welcome this act by the media company. I have seen my female counterparts and my own sisters having a difficult time during their initial days of menstruation. Some of the female friends at office are seen lying down on the desk and some confine themselves inside the sick rooms inside our office. But though many of the women open up about their periods, there is a section, who still remain tight-lipped about this biological condition. So I think that this leave should be availed by every female friend who has menstrual miseries. They should not shy away from admitting about their period days and telling that they are availing their First Day of Period (FOP). Then only the taboo on menstruation will be lowered in the workplace and society.
 
 
 
 Sudheej Sudhakaran, Project Manager, Travel Company, Bangalore
 
 Finally, the reality is being addressed. Being a man, I know none among us are aware what exactly women go through during their periods and only a few women would not mind talking about it in the open as well. In a society where women are not even ready to openly talk about it and men think they have no business discussing it, this move would bring a lot of change. At some offices, men may try to crack jokes about periods when women take leave. Hence, we should make sure that it doesn’t emotionally affect them. Also, the leave should be made optional and women themselves shouldn’t take it for granted. Work from home can also be an option.
 
 
 
 Rejoe Sudarsan, Educational Counsellor
 The call for equality has generally created a lot of misconceptions when it comes to understanding women. There were a lot of issues that women faced at work owing to the peculiarities in their biological system. This step will trigger more discussions on the topic and prove to be a major step towards gender sensitisation. This leave will help the womenfolk to become productive, in my opinion, besides providing a responsive working environment for women.
 
