New Delhi: The Centre rejected the application for voluntary retirement of   Kumar, former principal secretary to Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal, and gave the CBI   to prosecute him in a corruption case.

 The   sanction comes on the back of a chargesheet filed by the   against Kumar in a case relating to criminal conspiracy to cause loss of Rs 12 crore to the Delhi government in award of contracts between 2007 and 2015. 
 
 Kumar has protested his innocence and claimed that he was pressured to “implicate” Kejriwal but the CBI has insisted that it was acting on the basis of evidence which it claimed was strong enough to warrant prosecution. 
 
 CBI raids on Kumar’s office had sparked off a controversy with Aam Aadmi Party claiming that the chief minister’s office had been searched. The cases against Kumar date to the time he held several assignments in the Delhi government.
 
 The CBI had filed a chargesheet against Kumar in December last year, though the prosecution sanction was processed only later. 
 
 In view of the pending corruption case against him, the Centre has decided not to accept his VRS plea. As per rule, grant of VRS is held back where there is any pending case or inquiry against the applicant.
 
 In its chargesheet, the CBI has alleged the accused persons had entered into a criminal conspiracy to cause a loss of Rs 12 crore to the Delhi government in award of contracts between 2007 and 2015. The FIR had also claimed the officials had taken “undue benefit” amounting to over Rs 3 crore in award of contracts.
 
 The 1989 batch IAS officer has been charged with criminal conspiracy, cheating and forgery under IPC, besides provisions of Prevention of Corruption Act 
 
 Kumar was arrested on July 4 last year but granted bail by a CBI court on July 26.
 
 The suspended officer, while rejecting the allegations, had recently written in a blog post, “It is clear that they understand that the chargesheet filed is going to fail and therefore the only way to continue to threaten people is to misuse the provisions of Criminal Procedure Code.”
 
 Accusing the CBI of harassment, Kumar said the investigating agency had filed the chargesheet even before securing prosecution sanction against him.
 
 ends
 
 
