NAGPUR: Disappearance of  , the iconic tiger from   Wildlife Sanctuary (UKWS), has led to sharp drop in ecotourism in the sanctuary. Ban on entry of private vehicles has also fuelled plunge in number of tourists.

 “Drop in tourism has forced local youths to find employment elsewhere and their economic condition has worsened,” claimed Jitendra Gondane, sarpanch of Velgaon who also works as a guide at Gothangaon gate.
 
 At Karhandla gate, owing to tourism boom, locals bought 30 new Gypsies. Now slump has hit them hard and owners are finding it difficult to repay loan. The private vehicle ban was imposed with intention to imbibe discipline among tourists but it has boomeranged.
 
 Central India’s biggest tiger Jai was last sighted on April 18, 2016 in Paoni range of UKWS. It is missing since then. Jai was tourist-friendly tiger and hence many thronged the sanctuary, even by availing VIP quota. Many celebrities too visited the park.
 
 However, data received under the RTI Act also shows that there is almost 50% drop in tourism. To get a pulse of tourism, RTI activist Avinash Prabhune on November 10, 2016 had sought information for peak Diwali vacation period in 2015, when Jai was regularly sighted, and 2016 when the giant male was missing.
 
 Data received on February 22, from   (PTR), which seems to have deliberately delayed information, states that between October 17 and November 30, 2015 (Dusshera & Diwali vacation) 8,160 tourists visited Karhandla, whereas during the same period in 2016, 4,221 tourists visited the park. The number of vehicles too dropped from 1,163 to 495.
 
 Shockingly, Prabhune had to file an appeal to get simple information which was readily available. “This information is for Karhandla gate and the RFOs concerned from Paoni and Gothangaon gates of UKWS have still not supplied details forcing me to move the state information commission (SIC). The RFOs concerned were also not present at the hearing,” he said.
 
 “All this indicates sheer waste of manpower and time by forest officials while handling RTI applications,” said Prabhune.
 
 Even the guides and Gypsy owners admit that the sanctuary never saw this slump since 2013 when tourism started.
 
 “As private vehicles have been banned, hardly 10 vehicles visit the park throughout the week now. There are 33 local guides and many have sought employment elsewhere,” said Vidyadhar Uikey, guides association president.
 
 “Tourism has affected on three counts. First is Jai’s absence and drop in tiger sightings followed by ban on private vehicles and almost doubling of gate fee,” said Vikas Sawaimul, a guide.
 
 Earlier, vehicle fee was Rs100 and now it is Rs480. Similarly, per person fee was Rs50, which is now Rs90, he added. Gypsies charge Rs1,800 for 40-45 km tourism route.
 
 “From Gothangaon gate, the area of Jai’s siblings — Bittu and Shriniwas — hardly three to four vehicles enter a week. On Saturday and Sunday the numbers increase slightly,” says Gondane.
 
 The Maharashtra State Sanctuaries Guides Union has submitted a memorandum to Pench field director and has appealed to scrap decision to ban entry of private vehicles.
 
 “This has led to unemployment and resentment among locals. The very purpose of tourism benefiting locals has been defeated,” said Madhukar Bharne, general secretary of the association.
 
 Even BJP MP from   said that absence of Jai has badly hit tourism in Umred-Karhandla.
 
