NOIDA: About 50 makeshift shops and shanties in the vicinity of   housing society, Sector 78, were razed to the ground in an anti-encroachment drive by the   on Monday. 

 The move followed an inspection of the area by Noida Authority additional CEO R K Mishra on Saturday, after residents complained of security issues.
 
 The society witnessed mob violence five days ago, after a domestic help allegedly went missing. The maid, Zohra Bibi, later accused her employers of having held her captive. 
 
 Subsequently, many domestic helps of the society had gone on the rampage, throwing stones and damaging property in the society.
 
 According to Noida Authority officials, more than 60 officials, including those from the land department, were present during the drive on Monday amid heavy police presence. “We started the drive at 10am and ended it aro-und 11.30am,” said M C Tyagi, project engineer and work circle-6 incharge.
 
 “We had cops from two police stations — sectors 24 and 49 — besides a team from the Noida Authority. Two earthmoverss, four dumper trucks and one crane were used to clear an area of about 500 metres right in front of the society. Nearly 60 makeshift structures were removed from Noida’s notified land,” Tyagi said.
 
 According to information garnered by TOI, the land in question belongs to three brothers, and is Noida’s notified land. Several shops had encroached on the land and were largely catering to Moderne residents. These included vegetable vendors, fruit sellers, florists, tailors and tea vendors.
 
 “The Noida Authority came on Monday morning without any notice and razed our shops. We did not get any notice from the Authority to vacate the land,” said Azad, a vegetable vendor.
 
 “Flowers worth Rs 3,000 were destroyed in the drive,” said Surendra, a florist. “The episode last Wednesday was between the maid and her employer. Why are we being punished,” he asked.
 
 When asked if the shanties of domestic workers would also be removed, Noida Authority officials said the ownership of the land occupied by the shanties was disputed.
 
 According to sources, the land has a court stay on it against acquisition, and although it is Noida’s notified land, it is yet to be acquired by the Authority.
 
 Officials said the anti-encroachment drive would continue across the city. “We will not spare any squatters on our land and all such unauthorised structures will be razed to the ground,” an official said.
 
 
