Madurai: “Kadalai mittai”, the traditional peanut candy, will be taxed under the five per cent slab only in goods and services tax ( ) and not 18 per cent as was being construed. Commissioner of Central Excise, Service Tax and Customs R Saravana Kumar clarified on Sunday that it will be taxed under the five per cent slab, putting an end to the controversy of it being charged more than pizza. 

 The clarification came at the public interaction on GST here presided over by Union minister of commerce and industry  . The Union minister said that five per cent GST was for the readymade pizza dough and that a ready-to-eat pizza continued to attract 18 per cent GST. 
 
 The Madurai District Tiny and Small Scale Industries Association (Maditssia) and Industrial Estate Association on Sunday said that they were holding these interaction meetings on GST to make the people understand it better. 
 
 “The GST council is not a Union government council, but a council that has come with constitutional backup and consists of finance ministers of the 29 states and seven union territories and the union finance minister as members. No decision is made without these representatives holdings consultations with the various organisations in their respective states,’’ Sitharaman said. “Ì think it was done in Tamil Nadu too,’’ she said.
 
 When a representation was made by idly dough manufacturers’ association for cutting GST, the minister said that idly dough production was something unique to Tamil Nadu. 
 
 She would take up its tax exemption with the council as in the case of other perishable food products like eggs, milk and vegetables. She said that the representation made for gunny bags, concrete hollow blocks and used and virgin plastics among other things would be considered. 
 
 GST was a consumption-based tax and there were apprehensions that manufacturing states like Gujarat, Punjab, Tamil Nadu and Haryana would stand to lose due to lesser consumption in their states, but these states would be compensated, she said. 
 
 “We have given two ways, one where you do not have to register under GST if your annual turnover is less than Rs 20 lakh, or the composition scheme. One of the two will have to be followed,’’ she said.
 
 Transactions had to be monitored, and till recently 86 per cent of the Indian economy had been informal without proper monitoring. In this respect she asked, “How can a country do an economic assessment, fund welfare schemes for poor and space programmes.’’ Maditssia president L Murari welcomed the gathering while past president R Sundaram, K R Gnanasambandan among others also spoke.
 
 
