VADODARA: After several decades, the iconic Raopura tower in the heart of old city will start chiming again with the first trial scheduled on Wednesday. 

 Also known as   tower, the construction of the tower designed in Indo-Saracenic style architecture, was completed in 1896 as a tribute to the first wife of Maharaja Sayajirao Gaekwad III. It has a clock fitted on the top and has a design of a ‘chhatri’ above it. In an era, when watches were a luxury, it used to chime at a gap of every 15 minutes. 
 
 The clock on Mandvi is the oldest in the city and made by an Indian clock maker Narayan Mistry in 1850.
 
 But since decades, the clock had gone silent as the traditional mechanised system could not be fixed. 
 
 Starting 11 am on Wednesday, the tower will once again start chiming albeit at a gap of every half an hour. At the gap of every hour, after chiming, it will strike as per the number of hours. 
 
 The bell chamber in the tower has five heavy bells which in 1887 were procured from John Taylor & Co, world’s largest bell foundry based in Loughborough, England. 
 
 “Of the five, the largest is a clock bell which used to chime at the stroke of time. Four other bells used to strike in a sequence creating a melody that used to get completed in 40 seconds at the gap of every 15 minutes. At every hour, a melody of 20 seconds followed by strokes as per the number of hours used to ring,” said  , consultant from Supernova Technologies Private Limited, Vallabh Vidyanagar which has been hired by the   (VMC). 
 
 Jha, former director (technical) of the self-financed R&D and consultancy centre for impaired of   said while the chamber already had two hammers, three new hammers have been placed to strike the bells apart from other missing accessories. 
 
 “Since the mechanised system was not working, we have mounted a DC motor to strike the bell while the tower clock panel now has an inbuilt programme which is flexible enough to allow users to change time, rhythm and duration of rhythm as required,” he said. 
 
 If the Raopura tower continues to work successfully, VMC plans to do the same with other clock towers in the city. The city has clocks installed at Sayaji tower, Nyay Mandir, Mandvi, Khanderao Market and Wadi tower – all of which were built during Sayajirao’s tenure. 
 
