AMBERNATH: Local residents living in housing complexes near the   on Thursday started facing serious problems, as a fresh fire broke out on Thursday afternoon, enveloping the stretch of around two kilometer in smoke and seriously affecting the air quality. 

 The upset locals even approached to local Shivaji Nagar police station demanding to file an FIR against civic body for failing to curb fire in dumping. However after police denied to file an FIR, locals approached to DCP Ulhasnagar demanding action against the local police for denying to file an FIR.
 
 Prashant Chaudhari, a resident of Green City complex said, "Since last few days daily smoke comes out of dumping but on Thursday since afternoon problem have rise and we are living here by closing door and windows of our flat".
 
 Another resident Dhananjay Moolya said, “We want that dumping ground should be removed from this place so that the local residents can be relieved. This dumping should be carried to the place where is there less population. The local residents face a lot of problems because of the smoke that comes out and one’s with the problem of asthma suffer a lot".
 
 Satyajeet Burman an activist fighting against   said, "After fire and smoke on Thursday we complained to Ambernath Civic Chief and MPCB officials but nothing done till evening". 
 
 Burman said, "After public started complaining of breathing problem we approached to   senior police inspector of Shivaji Nagar police station but instead of taking our FIR against civic body who failed to curb pollution despite several complaint, Godbole misbehaved with us and did not file complaint".
 
 Ganesh Deshmukh, CEO (Chief Executive Officer) of Ambernath Municipal Council said, "On getting call our fire team daily visits dumping and control fire which occurred due to Methan gas generates from dumping" Deshmukh further said, "We have already prepared a development plan report for a garbage processing and disposal plant on a 32 acre polt at Chickloli in Ambernath and have forwarded the proposal to the government for sanctioning. The work for the closure of old dump yard will start within six months, while a new scientific landfill will be built at the proposed site simultaneously".
 
