NAGPUR:The district administration is making efforts to bring   out of ground water dark zone by taking up water conservation works on a large scale under   Check dams are being   and the damaged gates are being replaced.

 “Jalyukt Shivar project is critical for survival of agriculture in this region in the long term. Farmers have to dig up to 1,000 feet for getting water. How deep can they go,” said Archana Pathare, subdivisional officer (SDO) of Katol.
 
 Check dams are being deepened and widened to increase their water storage capacity. Most of them were built years ago and their capacity has reduced due to silting. Thus their purpose has been defeated. Work is being done on Landgi nullah near Sawargaon village in Katol taluka.
 
 “The Kolhapuri type (KT) weir on this nullah was installed in 1991. The gates broke away during a flood around 1995. Since then the check dam was practically non-existent. We are now deepening it by five feet and installing eight new gates. This will tremendously increase its water storing capacity,” Pathare told the media.
 
 Another triple gate cement dam in the area has already been deepened and widened. Farmer Omprakash Rewatkar said earlier he was unable to lift water from his wells from February. “This year the situation was better due to Jalyukt Shivar. The nearby drinking water supply scheme had become non-functional because the bore had gone dry. Now the situation has changed,” he added.
 
 According to the district agriculture office, 4,833 Jalyukt Shivar works were undertaken in 313 villages of the district in 2015-16. So far Rs 136 crore have been spent on it. In all 234 villages have become 100% water neutral while remaining 79 villages are 80% water neutral. Due to these works, 41,735 trillion cubic metre (TCM) water storage has been created. Ground water survey has declared the ground water level has increased by 1 to 1.5 metres.
 
 In 2016-17, 185 villages were selected under the project and in 2017-18, total of 220 villages have been selected. This year about 80% works are slated to be over by the end of June.
 
 Pathare said works have also been started under the new scheme ‘Galmukt Dharan va Galyukt Shivar’, which aims to desilt the existing irrigation dams and encourage the use of silt in the fields.
 
  “We are desilting the   under the project. Its capacity is 330 TCM of which 53 TCM was gone due to silting and which will be removed. Nearby farmers are taking away the silt for free,” she added.
 
