Women go gaga about men who stand up for them! When most of the men turned out to be insensitive about the recent assault happened to an actress in Kerala, it was   who came forward for her and spoke in support of her. And today, when the actress is getting back to work by joining him in his upcoming movie, Adam, the actor wrote on his Facebook page on what courage is and appreciating his co-star for fighting for a cause. Apologising for the misogynistic remarks his characters had said so far, the actor also said he will not use any of such sexist remarks in his films anymore. 

 The Ennu Ninte Moideen actor who already has a huge females fan followers, is now a hero among the women. His post is being shared by women from all walks of life and is being praised for the respect and empathy he has for his opposite gender. 
 
 
 Read his post below....
 
 COURAGE
 -----------
 Some of the most poignant moments in my life have been punctuated with moments of incredible courage. Courage from what I have now fully realised are God's most benevolent yet intricate creations. WOMEN! 
 
 From a mother picking up pieces of a suddenly derailed life, to bring up two young boys to be the men they are today..to a wife who at the fag end of a 40 hour labour, just as she was being cut open without an anaesthetic, holding my hand and telling me "It's alright Prithvi"..I have repeatedly been dumbfounded in realising how much of a lesser being I am in the company of the women in my life. 
 And today..as my dear friend walks in to the sets to kick start the shooting of her new film "ADAM", I once again bear witness to an extraordinary moment of courage from an extraordinary woman in my life! Today..she makes a statement..a statement that will echo through time, space and gender..that no one or no incident has control over your life but YOU! A statement that will now be part of counselling sessions and pep talks around the world. A statement that you my friend..are making in a million unheard voices!
 And to those voices I apologise..for at an age and time when I wasn't wise enough..I have been part of films that celebrated misogyny..I have mouthed lines that vilified regard for your self respect and I have taken a bow to the claps that ensued. NEVER AGAIN..never again will I let disrespect for women be celebrated in my movies! Yes..I'm an actor and this is my craft! I will whole heartedly trudge the grey and black with characters that possess unhinged moral compasses...but I will never let these men be glorified or their actions justified on screen.
 
 Once again..ladies and gentlemen..stand up and applaud for her! Behind the gutsy spunk, there is a vulnerable celebrity who knew well enough what this decision of hers would mean to a life under constant scrutiny. But she also knew..that she had to see it through...for that would set an example..light a torch that will show a path for many to follow!Today she makes a statement..
 A statement of extraordinary courage!
 
 Fanboy for life...dear friend..fanboy for life!
 Love always,
 Prithvi.
 
