GURUGRAM: Groups of   and   youths   intermittently on the outskirts of Gurugram on Tuesday and Wednesday over videos posted by either group denigrating their rivals that were widely shared on social media.

 It began with a video mocking Rajputs, which is rumoured to have been uploaded on   from somewhere in Uttar Pradesh, began circulating, police said. A Gujjar youth, Shiv Kumar alias Bhola, in   ‘liked’ the video on Facebook on Tuesday. He later complained to police that some time later, a group of around 20 Rajput youths — most from the village, and a few from neighbouring Khandsa, carrying guns and sticks, arrived at his house and thrashed him and his mother, made a video of it, and escaped. Overnight, the video, with a commentary mocking Gujjars, was shared widely.
 
 Bhola, in his complaint, said, “Around 2pm on Tuesday, around 20 armed youths arrived at my home and thrashed me and my mother. They fled when neighbours gathered outside. Later, a video clip of our humiliation, along with abuse for our community, was uploaded by them on Facebook.”
 
 Based on his complaint, an FIR was registered against Rohit, Ravi, Loki, Raman, Yogi, Jitender, Rohit and Sundu, all residents of Begumpur Khatola, as well as Navin, Mohit and Navin, residents of Khandsa, under sections 147, 148, 323, 452, 506 of IPC and Section 25-54-59 of the Arms Act, at  .
 
 “We detained an accused, Rohit, by Tuesday evening. By then, villagers assured us they would solve the issue at a panchayat on Wednesday, but then, the other group created ruckus,” said inspector Rajender Singh, SHO, Badshapur PS.
 
 Around 11am on Wednesday, as the panchayat was in progress, some Gujjar youths arrived to allegedly smash windscreens of five vehicles, threatened to kill Rajputs and fired a few rounds in the air, one of which injured one of their own, Rohit, in the leg. Police took three suspects into custody, including the injured youth.
 
 Later, based on the complaint of Begumpur resident Pradeep, a counter FIR was also registered using same sections of the earlier FIR, but including Section 307 (attempt to murder). “The matter would have been resolved in panchayat, but for the ruckus created. The situation is now under control, with cops deployed in the village,” Birem Singh, ACP (Shona) said.
 
 Village elders from either community declined to comment.
 
 
