Malayalis still remember Edmund Thomas  , the prodigy who left behind 25,000 paintings before bidding adieu to the world when he was just seven years old. 

 Even after 30 years, the little champ is still a wonder to art buffs around the world. So when director Harikumar, who had earlier directed films like Sukrutham, decided to make Clint's biopic titled Clint four years back, he left no stone unturned to make it 
 perfect.
 
 The director had auditioned 8,000 kids to find the perfect match to play the little artist's role and finally zeroed in on Thrissur-based Alok. He tells us, 'My movie will be more focused on Clint's parents. They are wonderful human beings, who are full of positivity and hope.'
 Clint's parents, M T Joseph and Chinnamma Joseph are extremely happy about the film on their late son. Joseph says, 'Alok is a smart kid like Clint. Clint was a very serious child, who rarely laughed, while he was with the elders. But he was very jovial and friendly with kids of his age. What Clint enjoyed the most was the freedom we gave him to choose what he wanted. Similarly, the director of this film has his freedom to make the movie and let the world know about Clint.'
 
 Harikumar has roped in   and   to play Clint's parents. 'When Clint passed away, his parents were very young; dad was 35 and mom 29. I felt Unni and Rima will be ideal to play the roles,' he adds.
 Actor Unni Mukundan says he does not mind playing dad to a seven-year-old boy at the age of 29. 'I have no qualms playing Clint's dad. That said, it is going to be one of the most different and challenging roles I have done so far. Clint's dad is very different from me and I have to do a lot of homework to essay the character.' 
 
 In order to play the role the actor will have several different looks. 'Also I will have to get rid off my beard, which I have been flaunting for the movie Achayans,' Unni says. 
 The film's shoot is currently progressing in Alappuzha and Unni Mukundan will be joining the sets on February 6.
 The film Clint is scripted by Harikumar and K V Mohankumar is inspired from the memoire, A Brief Hour of Beauty, written by Ammu Nair, a childhood friend of Clint. 'Ammu and her parents were good friends of Clint's family and in my movie, Ammu's character has an extensive role to play,' concludes Harikumar.
 
 
