NASHIK: The 96th year of ‘Vasant Vyakhyan Mala’, (spring lecture series), a month-long literary event  , is under way amidst good response from May 1. The first phase of the lecture series concluded on May 10 with a talk by noted Marathi theatre and film actor Makrand Anaspure. 

 Known for his comedy roles in Marathi movies, Anaspure delivered an interactive talk on ‘NAAM’ Foundation, a three-year-old initiative for the benefit of farmers in Maharashtra that has been co-founded by him and veteran actor Nana Patekar. 
 
 “It’s unfortunate that farmers are committing suicides in a country where they used to be worshipped. Three years ago,   began its journey to help farmers in every possible manner – right from providing financial assistance to farmers’ widows to admitting their wards in good schools. We monitored water conservation projects, river deepening and cleaning of streams in many villages and did everything we could for farmers as our passion,” said Anaspure while showing a Power point presentation. 
 
 He appealed Nashikites to come forward and help improve the condition of farmers in state. 
 
 “It’s not that we are doing something great for the farmers. We are doing something for our future generations. Only people’s movement can save agriculture, which is the base of the Indian civilization. Farmers will need help for some years. Once they become self-sufficient, they will feed all of us for generations to come,” Anaspure said while addressing a huge gathering at Yashwantrao Maharaj Ground on Godavari Ghat.
 
 On Thursday, educationist and authority on medical education   spoke on ‘Swami Vivekananda – Spirituality and Science’. Dr Mishra won hearts with his splendid oratory and mastery over English and Hindi languages.
 
 Vasant Vyakhyanmala (spring lecture series) started in 1922. It is inspired by a month-long lecture series of the same name which was held in Pune from 1875. The topics discussed in the series are culture and arts, civic issues, health, science, economics, governance and history among others. 
 
 Prior to India’s independence, every big leader, from Mahatma Gandhi, Jawahalal Nehru, V D Savarkar to Acharya Atrey, gave a lecture at the Vasant Vyakhyanmala. The list of eminent speakers of the series also includes names like Acharya Vinoba Bhave, Lata Mangeshkar and Balasaheb Thackeray.
 
