If there is anything in this world that can make you feel worse than being single – it is being the only single guy in your group of committed friends. While your friends are busy with their ‘significant other’, you are too tied up maintaining your serious relationship with Netflix, pizza and beer. Well, we feel you, bro. It may be heartening to know that a lot of people identify with your unique struggles... 

 
 
 You are not counted as a human anymore, you are synonymous to a wheel. Third wheel, fifth wheel, seventh wheel… You are like this forever alone guy (or should we say an accessory) who has to be a part of all the outings and trips that your friends take with their partners and there is no escaping it. Seems, odd numbers looked better only in the Math textbooks.
 
 
 
 For you, it was a game night with drinks, but for your friend it was a perfect opportunity to get cozywith his girlfriend. The worst part is that he reveals his plan to you while standing at your door. Things get tough since you can’t say ‘no’ yet don’t want to entertain their wishes. ‘Dilemma’ is just an understatement.
 
 
 
 With so much drama around, you think at times, you probably ARE in a relationship – your friend’s! You have the first-hand experience in dealing with their sh*t. Be it the fights or arguments or giving relationship advice; you are in it all. With the knowledge you now have, you can start your own counselling agency. 
 
 
 
 You get super pissed when a girl sees through you because she assumes that you too are taken, thanks to your couples’ brigade. And even if the cupid accidently looks at you, your evil friends make sure you pay attention to them.
 
 
 
 While people get excited about meeting their friends, you actually dread meeting them because you know what all is going to happen – your friend fighting with his girlfriend, you trying to stay neutral but forced to take sides, them making out and totally sidelining you and you looking away in sheer frustration. You just can’t escape it.
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
