MUMBAI: A 19-year-old athlete returning home from Vadodara in Gujarat after winning a silver   in the Vadodara International   died on Sunday after jumping out of a moving long-distance   at Vasai. Lokesh Waghmare, a resident of Durga Nagar Chawl in Gauraipada, Vasai (East), was part of the team that finished second in the sixth edition of the half marathon relay race held earlier in the day.

 Lokesh boarded Swaraj Express at Vadodara around 12.05pm. The train halted at Vapi and was passing by Vasai station on its way to its next stop, Borivli, when Lokesh, feeling that the train had slowed down, jumped on the platform at Vasai. However, he lost his balance and landed on the platform with a thud. The teen died before he could be admitted to a hospital. 
 
 The Class XII student, who was also a coach, used his earnings to help out his mother Suganda (50), who works as a househelp. Lokesh, an amateur runner, had been nominated for an award in the best   category at the Mumbai Road Runners’ annual awards night. Although he was not among winners that night, he has won several honours for his exploits, the trophies being stacked up in his tenement. Suganda said Lokesh was excited about the Vadodara event and had left on Saturday, promising to return the next day with a medal. 
 
 The Waghmares’ locality was enveloped in grief, with his friends unable to come to terms with the fact that the teen for whom running was a way of life had jumped out of a speeding train. “Lokesh would look so animated when he spoke of running. He practised daily and was confident of making a future for himself in sports,” his friend Rakesh Damle said.
 
 Besides his mother, Lokesh is survived by two sisters, one of whom is a 26-year-old widow and mother of two. It was Suganda and Lokesh who were running the house. “He wanted to give us the best and used to often say that things would get better,” his grieving sister Urmila said.
 
 
 
 
 The   committee has given Rs 1.5 lakh to Lokesh’s family.
 
 
