KOLKATA: Two persons, including a 19-year-old girl, died when portions of a 150-year-old house, which was declared unsafe five   in last three years, on   collapsed on Tuesday afternoon. 

 Hansa Shaw, who was scheduled to go to Pune to study   in the next couple of months, was cooking on the first floor when the kitchen, a drawing room, a toilet and an entire verandah of the three-storey house on 8 cottahs came crumbling down around 12.30pm. 
 
 The other victim, Himadri Sekhar Pahari, an accountant with a foammanufacturing unit, remained trapped under the debris for four hours before his lifeless body was dragged out. He was a resident of Madhyamgram.
 
 “I was inside the house when I heard a loud thud. I came out to find the western portion of our house, belonging to my uncle, had come down. My aunt was standing on the first floor, looking down at the debris and screaming the name of my sister. We all went in but she could not be traced,” said ML Jaiswal, who lives on eastern part of the building.
 
 The house is inhabited by four brothers – Rishwav, Manoj, Anuj and Himesh Shaw — and their families. The ground floor is rented out to a tenant and there are two offices – a foammanufacturing unit and an automobile parts shop. Hansa was the elder daughter of Himesh Shaw, who owns agrocery shop at New Market.
 
 As the house crumbled, locals and relatives of the family were the first to rush in for help. However, unable to move the debris, firefighters and disaster management group was called in but even they failed to rescue those persons trapped inside. Finally, after over three and a half hours of futile effort, officials of   came in and they were the ones who could finally remove the debris.
 
 “The man was lying on his back and the lifeless body of the girl was found a few metres away. We removed the pillar with the help of multiple crowbars and brought the bodies out,” said an NDRF personnel. They were rushed to   where both of them were declared dead on arrival. Mayor Sovan Chatterjee said the building was served five notices — between September 2017 and early this year — and a board of “unsafe house” was even hung outside the building but the residents had possibly put it away and even refused to vacate the house. The residents, however, said they were never served any such notice. They claimed that they were scheduled to renovate the house after the Pujas.
 
