KOCHI: The statements made against the state police complaints authority in the police meet are a clear contempt of the  , says   chairman Justice  .
“The supreme court had issued the direction to every state in India to constitute a police complaints authority in order to look into allegations of misconduct including custodial torture against police officers. How can an officer challenge the  . The constitution states that the law laid down by the Supreme Court is the law of the land and is binding,“ said Kurup.
 
 Justice Kurup said that he had never interfered in investigations. “The interference comes when the officers take civilians into custody and atrocities are committed under the guise of investigation,“ the chairman said.
 
 Refuting the allegations that the activities of the authority are publicity-driven, the Justice said that the issues being taken up by SPCA are of public interest and hence would draw the attention of the public. “Publicity comes because of the inherent nature of the cases, not because we want publicity . We don't need any publicity ,“ said Kurup.
 
 The claims by officers that the SPCA is creating problems are like criminals saying that the police officers are troublesome.
 
 “For dacoits and robbers, police is an eyesore. SPCA is only so for delinquent officers.It is they who are complaining against the authority,“ said Justice Kurup.
 
 The argument that there are other entities to solve the complaints against the police is completely absurd, said Justice Kurup. “The Supreme Court wanted an inexpensive and expeditious method to solve the issues of those who are aggrieved at the hands of the police. In one instance, a lady complained that one of her twin sons was wrongly taken into custody on the suspicion that he was his identical brother. As she came to us immediately, we could track down the officer who made the arrest and get her son back. It would've cost her time and money if she had gone through any other system,“ said Justice Kurup.
 
