MOHALI: The police on Tuesday removed   superintendent of police (SP)   from the   (SIT) formed to crack the sensational murder of real estate dealer Ekam Singh Dhillon after the victim’s father accused him of shielding the accused.

 Dhillon was allegedly shot dead by his wife Seerat Kaur at their rented first-floor house in Phase 3B1 on the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday. She along with her accomplices had bundled the body in a suitcase. She was trying to dump it when an auto-driver alerted the police, leading to her arrest on Sunday.
 
 On Monday, Ekam’s father   had accused SP Bhandal of unprofessional investigation and met Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh seeking a fair probe. Jaspal Singh had alleged that SP Bhandal did not properly investigate the involvement of Nimardeep Singh, a friend of Ekam and also known to Seerat, in the case. According to Jaspal Singh, Seerat had met Nimardeep Singh after the murder.
 
 SP Bhandal said, “I had detained Nimardeep Singh for questioning but since nothing substantial was found, we let him go.” “I am not favoring anyone. I was the one who arrested Seerat. I cannot arrest any person only on the basis of allegations or without evidence,” he added.
 
 The SIT formed on Monday is headed by Mohali SSP KS Chahal with SP (detective) Teja Singh and Mataur station house officer B S Pannu as members.
 
 On Tuesday, the family cremated Ekam at the the Sector 25 cremation ground. Jaspal Singh said, “Our demands have been met. We have been given an assurance that case will be solved and justice will be delivered.” 
 
 Meanwhile, the two other accused, Seerat’s mother Jaswinder Kaur and her brother  , were still on the run.
 
 Police were also investigating the role of Vinay Partap and his friend whose nickname was Jagat, said sources.
 
 Mohali SSP K S Chahal said, “We are monitoring the investigation and all the accused will soon be arrested.”
 
 ‘Snatched pistol from Ekam’
 
 Police on Tuesday claimed Seerat Kaur killed her husband in a fit of rage
 
 “Seerat had called her brother Vinay Pratap Singh and his friend Jagat to her house on the night of the murder before Ekam arrived. An argument took place between Ekam and Seerat when he came home,” said Mohali SP P S Bhandal. 
 
 Ekam went to another room and returned with the licensed pistol of Seerat. However, Seerat pounced upon Ekam, snatched the pistol and shot him dead, the SP claimed.
 
 Dog scare 
 
 According to police sources, after killing Ekam, the accused put him in a suitcase but decided not to dump him immediately fearing house owner’s dog might create trouble.
 
