NAGPUR: Independent candidates and   have come up with a strategy to counter the huge odds stacked against them in the   for the civic elections on February 21. Several of them have decided to join hands and form panels in their wards.

 When the   was announced, political observers had said that it was heavily tilted in favour of the bigger parties which would have the muscle and money to win. With individual candidates now ganging up, and with several rebels and sitting corporators among them, the BJP and Congress can expect surprising results.
 
 Sitting corporator Arun Dawre of the Congress is contesting as an independent from prabhag 11. He has formed a panel of two along with another independent candidate Manik Telote.
 
 Senior corporator Abha Pande, who is contesting as an independent corporator from Prabhag number 21, too is planning to team up with two other sitting and former corporators including Ravindra Dolas, Sulochana Kove and Vilas Parate.
 
 Similarly, independent corporator and former mayor Kishore Dorle, who is contesting from prabhag number 5 too has formed a panel with three other independent contestants Meenakshi Thakre, Ganesh Masram and Ranjana Gondane.
 
 By forming panels, these candidates will not only pool in their resources but also campaign together. Dorle said the new system doesn't provide a level-playing field to all candidates, especially those contesting as  . 
 
 “A candidate from an established party can hope ride on its manpower while those contesting independently will have a tough job managing the entire campaign themselves,” he said.
 
 Under the four-member ward system where voters, an independent candidate will have to secure a sizeable number of votes from a constituency of more than 50,000 voters who are part of the freshly redrawn wards. The new system has already increased the volume of candidate’s target voters by nearly four times, which would definitely pose a challenge considering their limited resources.
 
 BJP rebel corporator from Vishakha Maind, who is contesting from Prabhag 15, has formed a panel of four contestants comprising ex-corporator Rajesh Jargar, Triveni Tiwari and Pradip Agrawal. 
 
 Former BSP corporator Harshala Jaiswal, who is contesting as an independent from prabhag 6, has teamed up her husband Sanjay who is contesting from the adjoining prabhag 7.
 
 Dawre said, “Not only does an independent candidate need to reach out to nearly 50,000 people in the ward, s/he also has to ensure a huge number of votes for ensuring victory, which doesn’t seem an easy task.”
 
 Political parties are currently brushing off threats from such panels. BJP city president and MLA Sudhakar Kohale said it will not affect his party’s chances. “We also plan to take action against our rebels,” he said.
 
 But former Congress MP Vilas Muttemwar feels the rebels do pose a threat to the parties. “But I am confident that people will not waste their votes by electing such candidates,” he said. 
 
 The Congress has managed to bring back at least one rebel back into its fold as Deva Usare has withdrawn his nomination from ward no. 9.
 
