CUTTACK: "Once more to the breach, dear friends, once more."  's troops may or may not be familiar with King Henry's famous war cry. But when they enter the   on Sunday to face   in the Federation Cup final,   players will do well to respond to their coach's match-eve clarion call that borrowed heavily from Shakespeare's classic.

 "We face Bengaluru FC once more (this season) with the title up for grabs this time round. My boys will be ready to do what it takes to cross the final hurdle," Sen said on Saturday.
 
 Bagan coach's words were not difficult to comprehend. Bagan-BFC faceoffs have been so commonplace this season that Sen described his Sunday's opponents as "known enemy". The two teams have met five times since January (twice each in I-League and AFC Cup and once in the group stage of Federation Cup here). Mohun Bagan have won twice, drawn two and lost one going into Sunday's final. Their last meeting, at the Rabindra Sarobar Stadium four days back, had seen Bagan pummel   3-1, queering their rivals' campaign in the AFC Cup somewhat.
 
 On Sunday, Albert Roca's side will have to deal with another crucial encounter which will not only decide where the trophy is headed but also a spot in next season's AFC Cup.
 
 Roca, however, will have to get the job done without two of his key players -captain Sunil Chhetri, who has been ruled out of the season after suffering a muscle tear during the group league match against Mohun Bagan here, and his defensive linchpin Wat son Cameron, who is suspended. Chhetri, who is expected arrive here on Sunday, will only be seen as a cheerleader during the final.
 
 Given that former Trinidad and Tobago World Cupper  , who had played for Mohun Bagan last season but joined Bengaluru FC on loan from   for the Federation Cup, is yet to regain both form and fitness, Roca admitted that BFC will have to go into the final with "two-and-half foreigners". More acquiescently, the Spanish coach admitted to his team being the underdogs in the title clash.
 
 "Mohun Bagan are the favourites with some big names on their roster. Their strikers are capable of punishing any defence if it shows selfdoubt. It's going to be another test of our character," Roca maintained.
 
 Sen, however, refused to read much into Roca's statement. Dismissing it as a mind game, Sen insisted that there is no favourite in a two-horse race with the title at stake.
 
 Unlike Roca, Sen has a full squad to choose from. The Bagan coach, who excused a "tired"   from Saturday's training session, will no doubt include the Brazilian alongside   at the heart of his team's defence.
 
 He will also be buoyed by the form of his four attacking players - Sony, Norde, Katsumi Yusa, Balwant Singh and Darryl Duffy - who already have their names on the tournament's score sheet.
 
 Katsumi, who will lead the side, summed up the mood in Mohun Bagan camp. "We narrowly missed winning the I-League but we don't want to let slip this trophy. We are ready to give our best," the Japanese midfielder said.
 
 The battle lines are drawn. It remains to be seen which team breaches the wall and emerges victors.
 
