AHMEDABAD: 
 

  (GKTS) convener   got an overwhelming nod from his community members to make an electoral debut in the upcoming assembly elections at the biggest show of strength organized in Patan on Sunday. Alpesh addressed a massive rally in Patan on Sunday as part of his Janadesh Sammelan to seek a referendum on contesting the polls.The crowd thundered `yes' in unison when Alpesh repeatedly asked them if venturing into mainstream politics was the only alternative after a series of agitations over various issues.
 
 In a clear signal that he would be contesting elections, the feisty leader announced bringing thousands of ASHA workers, anganwadi workers and mid-day meal on government payrolls if he is voted to power.
 
 “In the last five years, we have organized agitations against the unemployment, poor state of education, rights of the deprived community and free flow of liquor in the state. The scale of protest over poor implementation of the prohibition policy signals that a change of guard is imminent,“ he told the gathering.
 
 “We may not have achieved full success through this protest route. But at least, we could shake up the state government, which considered some of our demands. All issues that we raised were those which government should have heeded to but did nothing,“ he said. Alpesh also exhorted people t to give in the allurement of not to give in the allurement of “liquor for votes“ but only keep Danc in mind prices that their agriculture produce. “This election Demo should be fought on the issue of potato and onion prices. While GUJARAT farmers are not getting enough returns for their produce, consumers are angry over skyrocketting prices of these vege tables,“ he told the crowd.
 
 Speaking about education, Alpesh said, “I challenge the government to show me a sing le student from a government school who has become and IAS or IPS. This reflects e of that poor state of education.“
 
 He even slammed the go vernment for inviting big bu siness houses to set up their shops in Gujarat but not ensu ring that local youths get jobs in their units.
 
 He even exhorted people to come out and vote in maximum numbers and ensure an unprecedented turnout in the election. “There are some areas where people have given up voting as they are fed up of incumbent MLAs, be it BJP or  ,“ he said.
 
 Talking to TOI, Alpesh said that his outfit has undertaken a massive survey of 25 lakh families regarding their expectations from the government.
 
 “Based on the outcome of this survey and Janadesh sammelans, we will make a decision regarding our political affiliation for the upcoming polls,“ he said.
 
 Though speculations are rife that Alpesh would side with BJP, he remained non-committal when asked.
 
 Over 150 Patidars, BKS members join Congress
 
 Palanpur: Congress in Banaskantha got a shot in the arm when nearly 150 Patidars and about 100 Thakor community members including those from   (BKS) joined the party in Amirgadh on Sunday. Ravi Patel, vice-president, BKS, Banaskantha district, said they were joining the Congress as these members felt ignored and their voice stifled in BJP.
 
 Kanti Kharadi, Congress MLA from Danta, said the influx of Patidars and BKS members, reflects the severe anti-BJP sentiments prevailing in the district. District Congress president of Banaskantha,  , claimed that many more in the district would soon quit the saffron party and join Congress.Banaskantha is considered a Congress stronghold. “In previous assembly elections, we had captured six of the nine assembly seats including Danta, Vadgam, Palanpur, Deesa, Dhanera and Kankrej while BJP got just three.“
 
