The elections came and went; the result has been turned on its head. There has been a lot of howling, hysterical sorrow since then about how the BJP “stole the elections”. A lot happened on that ‘fateful’ night of March 11, when the Congress supposedly had the numbers, but the BJP formed the government.

 The details hardly matter now. The fact remains that the Congress leaders failed to act quickly. Manohar Parrikar did. And that is the difference between the two partiesleadership. The BJP has one undisputed and decisive leader, even if he is abrasive and sometimes scornful of public opinion. The credit for catapulting the BJP to power with only 13 seats goes entirely to Manohar Parrikar.
 
 In 2012, Parrikar single-handedly engineered the rout of the Congress. To the people, he dished promises galore: end to casinos, recovery of the mining loot, zero tolerance to corruption, etc. To Subhash Velingkar, he promised to comply with the RSS’s demand. Like an eagle soaring on the thermals (of hot air), he seized a simple majority of 21 seats. And this paper’s front page lead had the memorable headline, “Exit Family, Enter Parivar.”
 
 With too many U-turns and a disappointed people, the BJP flopped badly in 2017. But the Congress doodled, Parrikar became chief minister and the rest is hysteria centred mostly on the ethics of forming the government when the BJP had lost the people’s mandate.
 
 But since when has ethics been part of politics? Why is there so much beating of chests in a land that saw such prolific toppling of governments, that in 12 years, the state had 13 chief ministers due to 21 defections involving 80 defectors? Also, if the people are howling ‘he is #NotMyCM’, who cares? If his boss in Delhi can cause heartburn to an entire nation with his note ban, Parrikar couldn’t care less for a section of voters in a small state. That is his brand of leadership.
 
 So is it all doom and gloom for Goa now? Not likely. Corruption is the air we all breathe and many of us are out of jail only because of lack of opportunity to cheat. Yes, the BJP is accused of being communal. But in Parrikar’s Goa, that is not the case. One must remember that Parrikar not only persuaded the central BJP to withdraw Ram Sene chief Pramod Mutalik’s election ticket in Karnataka, he also banned Mutalik’s entry into Goa. It is at his instance that the BJP today has seven   MLAs out of its 13. He has apologized for the withdrawal of the Good Friday holiday. Importantly, he seriously jeopardized the BJP’s election prospects by rejecting Velingkar’s demand to deny grants to Catholic schools. Also, the party in Goa rejected the BJP line on enforcing a ban on beef in Goa.
 
 This is not an approval of his methods of taking over the reins. But the above facts are in the public domain. Also, the Congress failed the voters very badly, forever divided as it is on the leadership issue.
 
 One looks to the future with hope. Now that Manohar Parrikar is home and in power, hopes are that familial bliss will be enjoyed, plenty of fish eaten, proper sleep slept, dozing at public functions prevented and compassionate consideration bestowed on the majorities, the minorities and the ‘maad’.
 
 As for the Congress, if it plays disruptive politics, it will do the state a great disservice by bringing in instability. The party must look for that one strong leader who can unite it into one formidable team for the 2022 polls. Hopefully, the Congress has found its enemy; it’s the Congress, not Parrikar.
 
 The writer is a senior journalist. The views expressed are his own.
 
