Chennai: In a pleasant surprise to petitioners, several   in the city have just gotten tidier and cops there are more courteous. The man responsible for this welcome change is none other than the   AK   who has been paying a series of impromptu visits to police stations across the city. 

 After he assumed the post of police commissioner in May, Viswanathan has turned up unannounced in at least 25 police stations and spent around half-an-hour on the premises. With the top cop leaving orders to keep the stations clean, police inspectors are sending photographs of the now spruced up premises to his office to remain in his good books.
 
 There is no set time for Viswanathan’s visits which have taken place in the morning at some police stations and in the afternoon or evening at others, said a police officer. “He opts to visit one of the police stations nearby after attending an event at a place,” the officer added. Viswanathan has so far been to police stations in Tambaram, Pallavaram, Kasimedu, Flower Bazaar, Periamet, Washermenpet, Pondy Bazaar, Teynampet, Abhiramapuram, Nungambakkam and Chetpet, among others.
 
 A policeman at a city police station said, “I was at the station at 9.15am when the top officer walked in to my surprise. He smiled at all the police personnel and walked into all the rooms in the police station before taking a detour around the station.”
 
 Viswanathan advised police personnel to keep the police stations clean and also asked them to clear the seized bikes dumped near the premises. He also spoke to a few complainants present at the police stations about their grievances and inquired if the policemen were being courteous.
 
 Many police inspectors are keeping rows of flowerpots at the entrance of the stations and have also introduced some barricades to streamline the parking of vehicles inside. A police officer said this was the first time since the retirement of R Nataraj as DGP that city police stations are seeing visits from the police commissioner.
 
