HYDERABAD:   in Telangana will soon double up as   allowing digital payments for essential commodities sold through   and also dish out cash to ration card holders after swiping their   in multi-useful e-Pos devices.

 What's more, Telangana government also wants FP shops as joints where ration card holders can pay their water and electricity bills when they come to take their quota of essential commodities under  .
 
 To convince the FPS dealers to render all these services, the government is proposing to give them commission on every transaction.
 
 The role of e-Pos devices installed in the FP shops in Greater Hyderabad is confined to only facilitating cross checking of genuine card holders through fingerprints for issuing essential commodities. The civil supplies corporation has struck a deal with a private firm to come up with multi-utility e-Pos devices that would allow payment of bills, swiping of debit cards, irisenabled, Aadhaar-enabled payments and other facilities.
 
 “We are in touch with banks to seed the bank accounts of all ration card holders whose Aadhaar card numbers seeding has already been completed. The idea is the FPS dealer should pay cash to the card holder on swiping of his debit card. The e-Pos device in which the card is swiped will transfer the money into dealers account from card holders bank account. We have to see how it finally works out. This facility would be very useful in tribal areas where card holders have to travel longer distances to get cash from banks,“ said C V Anand, civil supplies department ex-officio principal secretary. Likewise, the new e-Pos devices will facilitate deduction of money from the bank account of the card holder on purchase of PDS commodities, making it a total digital transaction.
 
 As per the government of India guidelines, Telangana civil supplies corporation aims to make all transactions digital for purchase of essential commodities under PDS at FP shops, Anand said.
 
 While the state government wants FPS dealers to play the role of “business correspondents,“ several FPS dealers said it would all depend on the percentage of commission that will be offered by the State. “It should not be mandatory , but voluntary. Dealer should be given a choice to accept business correspondent offer or even reject it,“ said a dealer.
 
