NAGPUR: Indian doubles players are slowly but surely matching the deeds of their more famous counterparters - singles players. A series of impressive results in the last few weeks are the testimony of this fact.

 Pranaav Jerry Chopra and N   have stormed into the mixed doubles semifinals at the   Super Series a couple of days ago. A week before that, the teenage men’s doubles pair of   and   had made it to the quarterfinals at Korea Open at Seoul.
 
 Finally, the doubles pairs are coming out of the shadows of star singles players and it has made the national doubles specialist coach   Her a happy man.
 
 The Malaysian, who was appointed by the   Association of India (BAI) and SAI to raise the standard of doubles in the country in 2015, has been delivering the positive results. “I am very pleased with the way things have moved this season. The maiden semifinal appearance of Pranaav and Sikki at Tokyo is the most satisfying result. It is a very good start from them and they can build it from here.
 
 “Last week, Chirag and Satwiksairaj also made it to the quarterfinals for the first time in the men’s doubles. Progress is definitely there,” Tan told TOI on Sunday.
 
 The experienced Malaysian belives there is still lot of work needed to be done to achieve the desired results. “So far it has been quite satisfactory but frankly speaking it is still not enough. “I want more consistency in results in the coming tournaments, espectially in the big events like Super Series. Next year, I want players reaching minimum quarterfinals in all the three doubles events on a regular basis. That is my target,” said Tan.
 
 He said there are at least four-five good pairs in the men’s, women’s and mixed doubles who can compete well at the international level and one can expect better results in the coming days. “I am handling a quality bunch of doubles specialists at the Hyderabad-based Pullela Gopichand Academy with my team of assistant coaches. 
 They all are eager to excel at the top just like singles stars. Pranaav-Sikki and Satwik-Chirag can set examples for other youngsters. I love the working atmosphere here. The process is on to make our doubles pairs as good as our singles players,” said Tan.
 
 "So far it has been quite satisfactory but frankly speaking it is still not enough. I want more consistency in results in the coming tournaments, espectially in the big events like Super Series. Next year, I want players reaching minimum quarterfinals in all the three doubles events on a regular basis. That is my target."
 
