PUNE: The National Green Tribunal bench here on Monday ordered an interim stay on any construction activity in the Mutha   in relation to the   rail project.

 However, there is no restraint on the planning or approval process of the project, said lawyers associated with the matter. The next hearing has been scheduled on January 25.
 
 Prime Minister   had launched the metro rail works on December 24 before municipal corporation elections due in February.
 
 A bench of Justice U D Salvi and Ajay A Deshpande directed the   (MMRC) a special purpose vehicle (SPV) being formed for executing the project to be added as a party to the ongoing matter before the tribunal.
 
 Architect Sarang Yadvadkar; industrialist & Rajya Sabha MP Anu Aga, environmentalist Aarti Kirloskar and others had filed a plea in May 2016 objecting to the Pune metro rail route alignment proposed through a 1.7km stretch of the Mutha river bed. The stretch falls within the 14.7km metro corridor-II from Vanaz to Ramwadi.
 
 The applicants argued that construction on the river bed would destroy the eco-system of the river and cause environmental damage. The green tribunal was to hear final arguments over the matter on Monday. Senior lawyer A Y Sakhare, representing the PMC, submitted that an SPV in the name of MMRC was being formed for executing the project. As such, the MMRC ought to be made a party to the matter.
 
 Lawyer Asim Sarode, appearing for the applicants, argued that the PMC’s submission was nothing, but another attempt to delay the final hearing as the MMRC cannot be made a party unless it comes into existence as a corporate entity.
 
 The bench was then informed by PMC’s lawyer that the MMRC formation process was expected to get over by January 15. To this, Sarode pleaded for a stay as an interim relief in view of the fast pace set by the authorities for execution of the project and the potential environmental damage.
 
 Yadvadkar told TOI, “The interim stay will impact the overall metro works. An end-to-end review of the metro route is essential for any realignment exercise or the project will run into unnecessary expenditure. The PMC was not ready for the final arguments. It was keen on delaying the matter without realizing that this would delay the judgment and may lead to cost escalation.”
 
 He said, “It will take some time before MMRC is registered after which we (applicants) will have to forward all documents related to the matter. The MMRC will then file its reply and we will submit our rejoinder to the same.” The interim stay will remain in operation till then.
 
