KOLHAPUR:   Chandrakant Patil has assured family members of eminent   and thinker Krishna Kirawale that a high-level   will investigate the case and gather evidence so that the suspects get convicted.

 He met the family members of Kirawale at their residence on Saturday and offered his condolences. Kolhapur police have arrested Pritam Patil and his mother Mangal in connection with the case. Kirawale was stabbed at his residence on March 3.
 
 Patil informed them about the status of the case and briefed them about the progress in investigation. Police have booked the accused under Atrocities Act along with other sections of IPC in Kirawale murder case. As per the Act, after the case is registered under Atrocities Act, the state government pays assistance of Rs 8.50 lakh to the family of the victim. Patil handed over the cheque for Rs 4.12 lakh to Kirawale’s family.
 
 “As per the Atrocities Act, the case is being investigated by the police officer at the level of deputy superintendent of police. The police are gathering all the evidence that will help strengthen the case and convict the accused. People having any constructive evidence related to the case should come forward and help police in the investigation,” he said. 
 
 He added that the state government is serious on this issue and is monitoring the progress in the case. Government will provide an expert public prosecutor in the case. 
 
 “State government will appoint a high-level committee to investigate all the angles related to case and help the investigating agency. We are ensuring that the Kirawale family gets justice,” he said.
 
 Kirawale was stabbed to death at his residence in Arihant colony in Kolhapur on March 3. A day later, the police arrested Patil (30) and his mother Mangal, 55, both residents of Arihant Colony, for the murder. Both are in police custody.
 
 Patil has confessed to the crime and reportedly told the police that he had planned the killing five days before the incident. Initially, he had told the police that he attacked Kirawale in a fit of rage over a property dispute. 
 
