MUMBAI: India and   Bangalore skipper  , down with a shoulder injury right now that he suffered during the third Test against Australia, could end up missing the first six or seven matches for his team this   ( ) season.

 Kohli, who missed his first Test match after a stretch of 54 consecutive five-day games since India's 2011 tour of the West Indies, sustained the injury to his right shoulder in Ranchi when he dived to stop a boundary at wide long-on but landed heavily on his shoulder.
 
 Sources in the know of things said: "He's recovering very well but it's been a long, very long, wearing out home season. He needs a break". The skipper, also one of IPL's most sought-after names especially after his batting performances for the franchise last year, could find himself back in the RCB dressing room either for their April 23 match in Kolkata or the April 25 game against Sunrisers Hyderabad at home.
 
 Kohli missing the IPL, although partly, tops the list of big India names that are bowing out of the tournament this season because of injury or fatigue.
 
 The skipper's RCB teammate  , meanwhile, is traveling to London for a surgery to his shoulder and sources said the team has already put in a request to seek a replacement.
 
 Chennai-based off-spinner   is set to miss the entire tournament because of a sports hernia. Those in the know of things say "Ashwin could participate in the tournament but if anybody's had a tiring year, it's him. And he's got to be fit and fresh for the Champions Trophy. So, he's just taking it easy".
 
 Meanwhile,   ­ the Chennai-based batsman who plays for Kings XI Punjab ­ has been asked to undergo a rehab to rest his shoulder and is presently seeking medical advice. The opening batsman too is all set to miss out on the entire duration of the tournament.
 
 Barring Mumbai Indians, almost every other franchise is hurting somewhere or the other. Ravindra Jadeja, the star allrounder in the series against Australia, is gearing up to play for Gujarat Lions but will be looking to take it easy after a season as gruelling as one that has Ashwin sidelined.
 
 Delhi Daredevils have been hit by the absence of JP Duminy and Quinton de Kock with mentor Rahul Dravid calling them "huge losses". The ideal end for R Ashwin to a phenomenal home season would have been a successful IPL, but that was not to be. The sports hernia that could have kept him out of the Australia series, finally forced him to sit out of the IPL.
 
 "Ashwin knew that he had to take rest at some point. He could take rest at some point. He could have chosen to sit out the Australian series, but he chose to play through pain," a source close to the champion offie, told TOI. That was the reason why, at times, the offie, who finished the season with 82 wickets from 13 Tests, looked tired as India went on to beat Australia 2-1.
 
 But the source clarified that it wasn't Ashwin's decision to sit out of the IPL. "He was assessed by the BCCI medical committee. Ashwin didn't go and tell them that he didn't want to play the IPL, it was entirely the call of the BCCI doctors that he should get the necessary rest," the source added. In fact, the fact that he would be unavailable for the IPL, was communicated to the offie only on Thursday night. "It's obviously disappointing for him, but Ashwin chose country over club," the source said. Ashwin had worked extremely hard right through the home season. Even during small breaks in between Test matches, he was at his academy ground in Chennai working on his game. It has taken a toll on his body and now, finally, the offspinner will take a complete break.
 
 There is, however, no clarity whether Ashwin will be available if Pune Supergiant make the last-four stage. By that time, Ashwin should be fit and would start preparing for the Champions Trophy. But the Pune franchise will only be in a position to avail his services if they don't seek a replacement. "There are a lot of ifs and buts to that equation. We will address it as per the situation," the source added.'
 
 Will Pune go for Nathan Lyon?
 
 Aussie offie Nathan Lyon, who was quite outstanding in the just-concluded series, wasn't picked by any team from the IPL auction. The Aussie is still available and the Pune bosses have the option of going for the spinner who looked extremely effective in Indian conditions in the recently-concluded series. "It could well be skipper Steve Smith's call if he wants to replace the best Indian spinner with the best Australian spinner. If that happens, it will be interesting to see if Lyon has the same impact as Ashwin," a source said.
 
 
