There was relief for the   (RWITC) in its dispute with BJR which runs Gallops   in the   premises. An arbitrator dismissed an application filed by BJR challenging its jurisdiction to hear the dispute. BJR claimed that its dispute with   was based on tenancy rights and only the small causes court could decide the issue. RWITC opposed this and claimed that its agreement with BJR was to conduct a catering facility in the members enclosure and a permit room. Justice (retired) F I Rebello, the arbitrator agreed with RWITC.

 "It has come on record that the main business of RWITC is of conducting horse racing and a restaurant is any amenity for its members or their guests. In my opinion, considering the restaurant along with permit room are amenities and/or are being run on a conducting licence basis and hence do not fall within the definition of Licensee under the Maharashtra Rent Control Act," said the arbitrator.
 
 RWITC had contended that it had been leased the land by BMC, which had barred it from creating any sub-leases. "The question that arises for consideration is as to why RWITC who have been given the property on lease by the corporation on a specific condition that no sub-lease would be created would jeopardize their rights over the 100 acres of land merely because they were providing amenities in the form of catering," said the arbitrator, adding, "In my opinion, as rightly commented upon by counsel for RWITC it will be clearly contrary to commercial commonsense."
 
 Around 226 acres on which the racecourse is located in   has been leased to RWITC since 1914 under various lease agreements. The latest lease agreement dates back to 2004. Since 1986, BJR has been running the   restaurant, after winning bids that year as well as subsequently in 1998 and 2008. As per the bid conditions, according to RWITC, BJR had to pay a conducting fee of Rs 3.2 crore per annum with increases every year. In 2009, BJR filed a plea in the small causes court claiming tenancy rights. The appeal by RWITC is pending before the court. RWITC meanwhile filed an arbitration application before the Bombay high court. In 2014, Justice (retired) Rebello was appointed as arbitrator. RWITC has claimed that BJR owes it over Rs 40 crores in dues.
 
 The arbitrator said that RWITC had been able to establish that for the entire period of 23 years between 1986 and 2009, BJR had not written a single letter to RWITC claiming that it was a tenant. The arbitrator pointed out that RWITC had been calling for bids for conducting the catering business and in the 2008 agreement with BJR there was a specific clause that rules out a lease or license. "In my opinion therefore, it is impossible to accept the submission on behalf of BJR that either those
 
 documents create a lease or license or in the alternative that this was a mere camouflage," ruled the arbitrator.
 
