NEW DELHI: Any document shared on   does not qualify as evidence unless the original is produced, the Delhi high   said. 

 Justice Sanjeev Sachdeva made this observation while hearing a petition, which sought directions to three states, including Arunachal Pradesh, their police and CBI for registering an FIR in connection with an alleged suicide note of former chief minister Kalikho Pul. Pul was found dead at the CM’s official residence in Itanagar on August 9 last year.
 
 The court enquired with the petitioners about their source of the information. The petitioners—   For Judicial Transparency and others— said they had obtained the information from a  . 
 
 The court then pointed out, “Neither the name of the sender of the alleged WhatsApp post was stated, nor was it stated as to which of the petitioners received the WhatsApp post...The petition, making very serious allegations, has been filed merely based on a post allegedly circulated on a WhatsApp group.” 
 
 The post, which the petition claimed to be a suicide note, is the English translation of a document written in Hindi. The petitioners also contended that the document had been sourced from a website where it was mentioned that the suicide note had been translated from Hindi to English.
 
 However, none of the petitioners had seen or were privy to the original note, the court noted. “In the present case, the petitioners, very candidly admit that they are not privy to any information. What they believe to be information is a post circulated on WhatsApp platform or an alleged translation on a website. The alleged information is not claimed to be true to their knowledge,” it observed. 
 
 In court’s perspective, the petition nowhere showed how the petitioners formed a “reasonable belief” that the alleged post or the translation could be true or had any basis. 
 
 It also noted that none of the petitioners were in a position to affirm the facts of the petition except submitting that a WhatsApp post was the basis of the petition. “The writ petition has been filed making wild allegations,” remarked the court. 
 
 For the court, the WhatsApp post did not even qualify as a document under the Evidence Act, 1872. “Over one-and-a-half hours of judicial time of this court has been spent in hearing arguments and disposal of the petition. Since the petitioners have admittedly filed the petition without verifying or affirming any fact and without formation of even a belief that what is stated in the petition has any iota of truth behind it, the writ petition is dismissed with costs of Rs 25,000 on each of the petitioners.”
 
 
 
 
 
