NAGPUR: “Medicine is evolving so fast that the text books in medicine need to be updated every one and half years or so. The Nelson’s  , considered as the bible of paediatrics world over is one book that is continuously updated. Even as the students join the medicine course and pass out in four years the content becomes obsolete in four years. Hence there is a need to keep the books updated often,” said Dr Bonita Stanton, founding dean of the Seton Hall and Hackensack Meridian School of Medicine USA and one of the four editors of the book.

 Dr Stanton ws speaking on the occasion of the inauguration of a two day international   on supportive care in paediatrics titled, ‘Books to bedside’ organized jointly by the Paediatric Intensive Care Chapter (PICC) and the IAP chapter of Nagpur.
 
 Dr Santon said that the knowledge of proteomics and genomics in the recent past has helped the doctors in personalizing the treatment for patients. “One medicine gives two different kinds of results in two different persons. But if the treating doctor is aware of the genomics of the individual it is possible to give personalized treatment,” said Dr Santon.
 
 Dr Nina Schor, professor of paediatrics in neurology and neurosciences at  , New York said that radiology was evolving so fast that a new diagnostic technology comes up every few months. Availability of these diagnostic technologies in abundance was both useful as well as confusing for the doctors as they really don’t know what method to use where.
 
 “One child in every fifty children suffered from some or the other form of neurological disorder like headaches, seizures, developmental delay, intellectual disability, autism, genetic and metabolic disorder, neuromuscular disorder or brain tumour. But the doctors try to treat most of these medically,” said Dr Schor.
 
 Dr Larry Greenbaum, professor of paediatrics, division of nephrology, Emroy University School of Medicine at Children’s Healthcare of Atlanta pointed out that in USA priority was given to transplants in children. “Children are generally given adult kidneys for better response in rest of their life. The transplanted kidney survives over 15 years,” he said.
 
 Dr Zubair Aghai, professor of Paediatrics and director of neonatology research at  , Philadelphia (who originally hails from Kamptee town in Nagpur district) told TOI that Indian paediatricians needed to realize that they should avoid using ventilators for children. “Use of ventilators damages the lungs in children. Instead they should use C-Pap,” he said.
 
 Dr Aghai stressed that Indian paediatricians should ensure that they use the hypothermia technique (keeping patient between 33-34 degrees) for preventing damage to brain. He also emphasized that Indian paediatricians should minimize the use of antibiotics in children to prevent them from developing resistance to medicine. 
 
 
