 Blame it on the length of a girl’s skirt or her wearing a pair of cool denim for attracting male gaze and misbehaviour. This has been the norm for so long in almost all parts of India. Instead of talking about the prevalent patriarchal attitude and mindset on what women should wear and when they should move around in public space,society chooses to put the blame on women.As we celebrate International Women's Day on Wednesday, Ahmedabad Times talks to girls on various   campuses and finds out how happy they feel because there are hardly any restrictions imposed on them. Recently,a leading college in Mumbai had imposed a ban on wearing ripped jeans on the campus while
Ahmedabad comes across as a pretty cool city so far as dress code in campuses is concerned. “We are allowed to wear anything in campus from shorts to ripped jeans since the hostel is in campus but students don’t wear it to class. There hasn’t been any notification regarding any dress code but girls themselves don’t find it comfortable," says Piya Patel, student of PDPU. Similarly, many other campuses allow girl students to wear all types of clothes. “There are professors who don’t really appreciate girls wearing shorts, sleeveless tops or ripped jeans, but we wear them anyway since the college allows it,” says a student of a leading engineering college.
 
 
 
 
 
 Campuses in many parts of India have strict guidelines and time limits so far as movement of women students are concerned. Talking about campus experiences, Pranjali Maru, a student of DAIICT says 12 am is when they have to be back at hostel. “In comparison to many other campuses in the country, we are definitely better off. However, we cannot have post-midnight birthday celebrations because of this deadline. We would have been happier only if the timings were a bit more flexible.” Piya Patel says,“We have to be back on campus latest by 9.30 and get inside hostel by 10.30 pm.I feel it is little too early considering we are young and would like to go out for dinner with friends or just hang-out at a cafe nearby." While there are timing restrictions, students agree that the hostel warden does permit them on special request to come in little late. Students are in an age group where they want to venture out more and have a more liberal surrounding. DAIICT has a special lab which is open 24x7 and all the students are permitted if they have assignments. "I agree we are much more privileged than most other college students since our in time is 12 am,” says Pranjali. The students also feel a sense of freedom in the campuses while chasing their study goals and extra-curricular activities. These campuses also encourage students to practice till late night for their music,dance and theatre activities. Another student of Nirma University Yashvi Patel says they don't really have any restrictions on campus. ‘Overall the college is very liberal abd we have separate food coupon counter for girls, clean washroom on each floor and there are no restrictions as far as going around the campus is concerned. We can always hang out with male students as the entire campus atmosphere exudes a sense of freedom,” Yashvi says. The students in city agree that campuses in Ahmedabad are liberal and the young women students are at ease in their daily activities. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
