LUDHIANA: Applying brakes on the ongoing speculations of rift between alliance between the   and   the BJP state president   cleared that both parties will contest upcoming elections of   jointly in the state. While addressing the press conference on Sunday after state level executive meeting Sampla said that they did not lose assembly elections due to lesser development rather they failed only because they could not publicize those   

 Sampla said that only reason for their defeat in the assembly elections was that they could not tell people about the development works which they did in the past years and moreover onus of defeat is equally divided in both parties. He said that in alliance responsibility is of both parties not of any individual. Regarding differences among the party leaders the state president said that there can be difference of opinions among party leaders but there is no division when it comes to take stand for the party. 
 
 When asked about the allegations raised by leader of opposition in Punjab assembly and AAP MLA from Dakha constituency HS Phoolka over BJP leaders, Sampla said, “None of our leader was in touch with AAP MLAs and I challenge Phoolka if he can prove our leaders offer money to their MLAs.” Taking a dig at allegations he said that Phoolka has told his rate not his MLAs. 
 
 Regarding executive meeting Sampla said that in the meeting they condemned the performance of Congress government as it has failed on every front and government has rolled back the allotted funds from the MCs. He said that development works have come to stand still and SAD BJP had made Punjab power surplus but after Congress government came in power the people are again suffering from power cuts because they have failed in managing the administration. Sampla claimed that they briefed about the Centre government policies to all party workers in the meeting. 
 
 “We wont accept AAP leaders even if they pay Rs 15 crores to us,” Prabhat Jha, BJP
 
 Answering a query over the charges leveled against the BJP leaders for luring the AAP MLAs with Rs 15 crores for joining BJP the All India Organization Secretary Prabhat Jha said, “Money is the only thing for the top leaders of Aam Aadmi Party which has been proved Kapil Mishra. Even Arvind Kejriwal is the most corrupt of them and in case he does not get money he starts getting epilepsy attacks.” Jha pointed out that BJP will not accept the AAP leaders in case they give Rs 15 crores for joining BJP. 
 
