NEW DELHI: The city reeled under massive   jams through the day due to protests by   students outside the police headquarters on Monday. Cops say that a series of obstructions on major arteries slowed down movement, resulting in nagging snarls that went on all day. Snarls were reported from parts of outer Delhi as well, as the cops mounted barricades to prevent Jat agitators from entering Delhi.

 Major intersections like the NH-24, Mayur Vihar, Barapullah crossing, Laxmi Nagar, ITO and Akshardham Temple road witnessed long tailbacks. Cops blamed two vehicle breakdowns and movement of heavy equipments by DMRC as the cause of jams.   was severely affected as people witnessed bumper to bumper traffic around India Gate, Janpath and Mathura Road. JNU students had blocked Vikas Marg, demanding action against cops who had allegedly raided the house of Najeeb Ahmed’s relative.
 
 The students sat outside ITO Metro station and blocked the road, affecting traffic on the stretch. 
 
 “The   severely affected the traffic going from New Delhi area towards east Delhi. With Bhairon Road being choked, commuters had to face a troubled time,” a senior police officer said.
 
 Expecting a gridlock in Central Delhi due to the protests, vehicles in Lutyens’ Delhi were diverted through Connaught Place and Barakhamba Road, leading to congestion.
 
 “I have been waiting at Raj Ghat for more than half an hour as cops kept diverting traffic through all the other available roads,” said a commuter Rajesh Rajpal on the social media profile of traffic police. 
 
 Stretches around the Mathura Road was severely affected by the detours. Drivers entered lanes that have narrowed down due to parking and civic work. Sunita Alwar, driving from Saket to Greater Kailash - I, took more than two hours to reach home. “The situation got worse when I entered the colony roads in south Delhi,” Alwar said.
 
 Around afternoon, traffic around Anand Parbat from DBG road to New Rohtak Road was shut without warning due to ongoing PWD work, choking parts of   and stretching till Pahargunj. 
 
 
