Trichy: It was an action-packed Mattu Pongal (festival dedicated to cattle) on Sunday in several parts of Pudukkottai and Trichy as youth locked horns with police for being prevented from unleashing bulls. On their part, the men in khaki tried every trick to uphold the Supreme Court   on the conduct of   by even guarding houses which raised bulls. 

 Jallikattu being an integral part of Mattu Pongal when bulls are worshipped across villages and unleashed in the taming arena, incidents of lathicharge were reported from several places where emotionally charged youths insisted on conducting the traditional sport. Hundreds of villagers gathered at Ayyanarthidal in Pudukkottai district to witness jallikattu in the morning. Police which sensed the secret planning rushed to the spot before it took off resulting in an altercation with the irked villagers. As the villagers unleashed the bulls, police resorted to lathicharge to disburse the crowd. 
 
 Over 20 bulls were reportedly unleashed at Vengaikurichi in Manapparai taluk. Cash rewards were also distributed to those who tamed bulls during the event which got over before the police could reach the spot. In another incident, over 200 bulls were brought to Uthamar Seeli village for conducting the sport. By the time Manachanallur police reached the spot, bulls were unleashed as part of the event. Later, as the police warned the   owners against letting loose the animals, they dispersed. 
 
 Suriyoor village which is famous for organising jallikattu in Trichy district saw police personnel guarding houses which raised bulls. Going a step further, the police personnel even got written undertakings from villagers that they would not conduct jallikattu. Unlike in the previous years, bulls were brought to the famous Vadivasal of Suriyoor and taken back home after performing prayers as part of the age-old ritual. 
 
 Members of Jallikattu Peravai gathered near Kanikaipuram in Ariyalur district along with bulls. With the animals sporting black flags on their horns, the agitators headed by JK district president Lurudusamy urged the union government to make way to conduct jallikattu. 
 
 In Karur, police arrested 10 persons from two different places for conducting rooster fight defying a ban. Close to Rs 500 was recovered from them along with motorcycles. Acting on a tip-off, a team from Thogaimalai police station reached Melakambeswaram village where a group of people were conducting rooster fight while engaging in gambling. Police arrested five persons including one Ponnusamy, 37, from Lalapettai who organised the rooster fight. A total of 11 roosters were also recovered from the place along with 10 motorcycles. In another incident, five persons were held near Aravakurichi for conducting rooster fight. Roosters were recovered from them along with cash used for gambling. 
 
 
