PUNE: The Bombay high court, in a rare occurrence, heard a petition on Sunday and directed a stay on the government resolution (GR) of April 27 which rendered post-graduate (PG) medical aspirants from outside   ineligible for admission in the state on the grounds that they were not domiciled here. The GR was issued after the admission process had started on April 4 and barely three days before the first selection list was released on Sunday.

 Justice Shantanu S Kemkar and Justice A M Badar of the high court bench also stayed a notice issued by the state Common Entrance Test (CET) cell on April 28 changing the eligibility criteria following the GR.
 
 “This change of eligibility criteria at this stage when the first selection list was to be published is in our considered view arbitrary and unreasonable. The action on the part of the state in the midst of the admission process cannot be prima facie sustainable,” the bench said.
 
 The order is significant as it comes as a relief to over 700 medical graduates who were overnight rendered ineligible for PG admissions for being non-domiciled. 
 
 The bench directed that a reply to the petition be filed within two weeks and posted the matter for a next hearing on June 7. With the academic session set to begin on May 2 as informed by the state, the government said it was preparing to appeal against the stay, before the  .
 
 “It is very rare for the high court to preside over the hearing of a writ petition on a Sunday. Some of these candidates have a bright chance of securing PG medical seats in Pune’s   (BJMC),” lawyer Pooja Thorat, who appeared for the petitioners, told TOI. The GR allowed non-domiciled students admission in a 15% management quota only in private medical colleges.
 
 BJMC was named among the respondents, along with the state director of medical education and research (DMER) and the state CET cell, in the petition filed on April 29. Prior to the April 27 GR, the candidates who have done their MBBS/BDS from colleges in Maharashtra were eligible for PG medical/dental seats. The GR added the   condition to the basic eligibility norms. 
 
 Four of the five petitioners have done their MBBS from government and private medical colleges in the state after they got admission through the 15% all-India quota. The fifth petitioner, admitted through the defence quota, did his MBBS from a government medical college. They moved the high court arguing that the government cannot change the admission criteria during the course of the admissions for which online registration began on January 27 and actual process started on April 4. The first selection list was to be declared on April 14 but, was put off till April 30.
 
 Three days before the publication of the first list, the GR was issued stating that candidates were not only required to have passed MBBS/BDS from colleges in the state but also be a domicile of Maharashtra. The students argued that the move was unjust and that they cannot even apply for admission in their home state or other states at this stage. 
 
 The bench observed, “The petitioners were given legitimate expectation right from January 2017 that they would be eligible to get admission in view of clause 8.2 (of the admission rules) as was existing at the stage up to April 27 and now it is impossible for the petitioners to apply in the home state or any other state.”
 
 Government lawyer L M Acharya argued that the state’s move was justifiable as the modified rules were to ensure maximum postgraduate medical students from Maharashtra to achieve the government’s object of improving and providing better public healthcare in the state. He sought a week’s time to file a reply to the petition. “The first selection list has already been published on April 30 and therefore, at this stage, no interference is called for,” he said. 
 
 But the petitioning medical graduates said that since they were eligible to claim postgraduate seats in government medical colleges, they had paid Rs 10 lakh along with Rs 3 lakh interest in lieu of compensation for rendering rural service in the state, but now find themselves ineligible.
 
 (With inputs from Swati Deshpande)
 
 
