BENGALURU: Four months before   festivities begin, Tarun Paul from Kolkata makes an annual sojourn to Bengaluru. An idol maker, he pitches camp at Cox Town. He gets many items along with him to ready traditional Durga idols, especially the clay from  , the famed potter's quarter in north Kolkata on the banks of Hooghly.

 Tarun's father Sudhir Paul was the first idol-maker to come to Bengaluru way back in 1964 to design idols for the Bengali community. Several families followed suit. According to these artisans, a bagful of clay from Kumartuli is a must among the items they bring. "Clay from no other region can give such perfect smoothness to the idols. We carry 3-5 gunny bags of it, especially to give finishing touches. Moreover, its is considered pure," Tarun said.
 
 Artisans from Sudhir Paul and sons earlier worked out of garages of Bengali households. Then they shifted to the Bengalee Association before coming to Cox Town. Work begins in June with 16 artisans giving shape to idols. In September, Tarun begins to work on decorations and orna ments. Idols, ranging in height from two and a half feet to 15, are transported across Bengaluru and districts like Ballari. Tarun is known for making thematic Durga idols.
 
 Satyajit Paul, an idol-maker from Queen's Road, who works on the premises of Nagakani Amman temple said, "We have been making idols for Bengalis living in Bengaluru for the past 20 years. The idols are not very tall as they have to be placed in homes and not pandals. Ornaments and hair are brought from Bara Bazaar, Kolkata."
 
 Sunil Paul is an idol-maker from Chinnappa Garden. " All items used to make the idols are natural, such as soil from the Ganges and rice straws.Mud from Bengaluru is only used to fill the inner part of the idol. Our work continues till Chaturthi or Panchami as Bengalis start celebrations from Shasthi (the sixth day of  )," he said.
 
 
 
 
 The artisans don't take more than 35-40 orders every year for Durga, Kali, Lakshmi and Saraswati idols. There is no point taking more orders because we can only dedicate limited time to each," said Arvind Ghosh, idol-maker from Chandra Shekhar Paul's group in Chinnappa Garden.
 
 
 
 
 Sholapith idols are a speciality of Sudhir Paul and sons, which are made and brought from Kolkata on orders by Bengali families. These idols can be kept at home through the year. It is basically the face of Goddess Durga decorated with carvings from Sholapith, a dried milky-white spongy plant matter which can be shaped into exquisite objects of art. Prices start from Rs 1,000, depending on the idol size.
 
 
 
 
 Idol-makers say since Bengaluru has been receiving more rain this season than the past few years, it's becoming difficult to dry the idols. In the sun's absence, they are using dryers to ensure timely delivery.
 
