BENGALURU: Subham G, 42, is a regular at  . A fitness freak, the techie ensures he never compromises on his strict exercise regimen. While Subham is neither diabetic nor hypertensive, he suffered a debilitating stroke a few months ago. While his family was in shock, doctors blamed lack of sleep. Though he's stable now, doctors have advised him not to use bright LED lights, especially the blue ones.

 Like Subham, doctors are seeing an increasing number of Bengalureans in the age group of 35-50 suffering from sleeplessness. Dr Arti Singh, cosmetologist and founder of Sparha Wellness Studio, said: “Apart from having puffy eyes, dry skin, fine lines and dark circles under the eyes, those with insomnia are more susceptible to heart ailments, high blood pressure, stroke and diabetes. Sleeplessness also leads to psychological problems, due to extreme stress. Cortisol, a stress hormone, breaks down collagen, the protein which keeps our skin supple.“
 
 “Insomnia may be primary or a result of organic and psychological reasons. Organic causes include hepatic, renal, cardiac and neurological disorders,“ said Dr  , senior consultant and neurophysician at  . He added: “Various body systems require sleep for a restorative and rejuvenating effect on them. It's also vital for nor mal functioning of the heart, blood vessels and brain.“ Consumption of caffeine, nicotine and alcohol, and disorders like sleep apnoea (in which the patient has breathing trouble) also lead to sleeplessness. Doctors say in the case of pregnant women, gestational diabetes is the culprit.
 
 Dr Arti's prescription -regular exercise, a comfortable bed, saying no to caffeine, alcohol and cigarettes, taking a shower before sleep, and avoiding bright LED lights and mobile phones. “Sometimes, medications also lead to loss of sleep,“ she said. Lack of concentration, stress Sleeplessness comes with many repercussions - stress, depression, anxiety, lack of concentration, poor decision-making and dull performance at the workplace, say doctors.
 
 Dr L Sreenivasa Murthy, medical director,  , said: “Sleeping trouble leads to psychological problems. Chronic insomnia may increase an individual's risk of developing mood disorders.Insomniacs are five times more likely to slip into de pression and 20 times more likely to get panic disorders...Fatigue due to lack of sleep can cause headaches, resulting in poor performance at the workplace. This results in irritation and the inability to concentrate,“ he added.
 
 Dr Shantanu Tandon, ENT and sleep apnoea specialist at  , said: “Insomnia also affects personal relationships as it is known to lower testosterone levels, which affects the sex drive“.
 
 (Some names have been changed)
 
 
 
 
 We live in an age where citizens have before them avenues to explore all their hearts desire. It is in, many ways, an age of abundance. However, in our quest to explore and love life to the fullest, we must not forget the importance of unwinding. Sleep is as essential to the spirit as it is to the body. Lack of sleep among the urban populace is a worrisome trend, given the packed schedules of the perennially busy. A sedentary lifestyle appears to exist alongside adrenaline filled activities that professionals indulge in during the weekend. These abrupt changes to daily regimen no doubt have a telling effect on the body, depriving it of a much needed tonic; sleep.
 
 MOOD SWINGS, DEPRESSION
 
 Vaishnavi S, 36, used to work at night till she was diagnosed with mood disorder, stress and depression due to lack of sleep. The corporate employee was always irritated and her mood swings distanced her from her husband and son. A 33-year-old new mom suffered from acute depression due to lack of adequate sleep at night. She was diagnosed with gestational diabetes during pregnancy. She would often ignore her baby and lock herself in a room. Now, she attends weekly counselling sessions.
 
