VADODARA: After facing a major embarrassment,   has decided to expedite work to make the entire university campus wifi enabled. 

 MSU vice-chancellor professor Parimal Vyas found himself in an uncomfortable position when its most illustrious alumni Nobel laureate   aka Venki, revealed that he had shifted to a hotel as the university guest house lacked wifi facility.
 
 Citing his own example while talking on lack of infrastructure to engage Nobel laureates in the country, Venki had said that he wanted to stay inside the university campus. 
 
 “For this arrangements were made at the university guest house but there was no wi fi facility and I had to shift to a hotel,” Venki had said on Wednesday even as Vyas was sitting next to him. 
 
 “Forget Nobel laureates, for any professor from the west this is the minimum standard required. This is a problem at Baroda university, other universities have their own set of problems,” he had said.
 
 Vyas has now directed the committee which is working on the wi fi project to expedite its work. 
 
 “I have asked the committee to expedite the work for which the syndicate body has already allocated Rs 3.25 crore,” Vyas told TOI on Friday. 
 
 In the first phase of its wi fi project, MSU has covered  , Faculty of Technology and Engineering, Faculty of Family and Community Sciences apart from Halls of Residence, the C C Mehta auditorium and the university head office. 
 
 “In phase II, all other faculties and institutes will be covered. 
 
 To provide, the facility to all the users, we wanted an integrated technology,” said dean of Faculty of Science professor A C Sharma, coordinator of the committee appointed for the project.
 
 “We have already procured active components like access points, controller, switches and the software required for the controllers worth US $ 3.5 lakh,” he said. 
 
 “We need to find out a system integrator (SI) for which we had rooted quotation in the beginning of October with the condition that the SI should be preferably from Gujarat. Somehow, we could not identify a SI and we had to go for re-tendering which was done in November,” said Sharma. 
 
 “We are now reviewing the quotations from SI and now all the technical reports will be placed before the vice-chancellor next week for final decision after which implementation will start,” he said.
 
 
