Kolkata: Not many have achieved what Lt Gen Subrata Saha has during his tenure as GOC, 15 (Chinar) Corps based at the   in Srinagar. 

 When he left the Valley to take over as Deputy Chief of   Staff (Planning & Systems) in New Delhi, he was hailed as the ‘People’s General’. Not only did he reduce the number of militants through kinetic operations, he also reduced the sense of militancy in the environment. No less was his role during the devastating floods in the Valley in September 2014. This was probably the first time in decades that the ‘awaam’ in Kashmir appreciated the Army’s role.
 
 Lt Gen Saha retired from the Army on Friday. The elder son of Capt Ashwini Kumar Saha (retd), Lt Gen Saha was born in 1957 in Kolkata. After completing his studies at Sainik School, Purulia, he joined St Xavier’s College in 1974 to study chemistry under Fr Beckers. But this was not to be. He joined National Defence Academy (NDA) in January 1975 and was commissioned in the Assam Regiment on December 16, 1978. 
 
 “He was a brilliant general. During the floods, nearly 50% of Badami Bagh Cantonment was inundated. He ensured all assets were restored to much superior quality before he handed over the reins. It was under him that the firing range at Tosha Maidan in Budgam was cleared of all explosive material. This saved innocent lives, including those of children. During his Junior Command Course, he earned a rare ‘Delta’ (Distinguished Grading) and is the only officer to have completed courses at the Staff College, Camberley, UK and the US Army War College,” a senior officer said. 
 
 Lt Gen Saha commanded a Rifle Company on the Siachen Glacier in 1986, followed by counter-terrorist operations in Tarn Taran, Punjab, in 1991-93. In 1999, he led disaster relief operations during the Super Cyclone in Odisha. After taking over as deputy chief in October, 2015, he went on to demolish archetypal beliefs and ushered in a fresh set of principles based on transparency, efficiency and primacy of outcomes over process. His slogan ‘Winning India’s Wars with Indian Solutions’ now resonates in various echelons of the defence sector as a statement of purpose. 
 
 “He made efforts towards ‘Modernisation of Indian Army through Indigenisation’. Not only did he create the ‘Army Design Bureau’ but also steered it in its infancy through one of the most extensive outreach initiative, spanning more than 2,000 industrial entities, 1,000 research scholars, over 20 regional hubs and 10 premier academic institutions. For the first time in many years, the defence budget for capital acquisitions was fully consumed (in fact, it absorbed double of what was allotted) and every penny was utilised for meaningful capability,” the officer added.
 
