MUMBAI: Sunil Shitap who had moved the Bombay high court for bail as an accused in the Ghatkopar building collapse case withdrew his plea and will approach the sessions court now since the chargesheet has been filed in the case. 

 The prosecutor informed the   that police had filed its chargesheet on September 22 before a magistrate in Vikroli. He has been accused of culpable homicide not amounting to murder under Section 304-II of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) which attracts 10 years' imprisonment.
 
 Since a chargesheet signals the end of investigation, Shitap can now move the sessions court again citing changes in circumstances. Last month the sessions court had rejected his plea for bail citing ongoing investigations, prompting his move in the HC.
 
 Shitap's lawyer Mateen Shaikh had sought time to bring the Chargesheet on record, but Justice Revati Mohite-Dere asked him to go before the sessions court, given the change of circumstances now. The chargesheet runs into over 2600 pages. He then withdrew his plea.
 
 Seventen people died and 22 were left seriously injured when a four-storeyed Siddhi Sai building crashed on July 25. Police arrested Shitap for allegedly carrying our unauthorized work in it.
 
 Meanwhile, not willing to let Shitap get bail, several residents including sons and daughters of those who lost their lives in the tragic crash, had sought to intervene through advocates Sujay Kantawala and Ashish Mehta, to oppose his demand and pointed to a BMC high-level inquiry report that indicates Shitap was carrying out “unauthorised’’ construction in his premises, weakening the building.
 
 Mehul Dongre, one of intervenors, said he had lost his parents and also is year-old son in the crash.
 
 Shitap’s plea was that in 2015, he had appointed a structural auditor since his requests to appoint one had been ignored for the 37-year-old Ghatkopar, West building. He said that auditor had suggested urgent repairs to enhance the life of the building by four more years.
 
 The building had 15 flats including three commercial premises that Shitap said he owned on the ground floor, which were let out to a nursing home. He contended that “tenable repair work was in progress at about 9.30am when the building collapsed, on July 25.’’
 
 His contention in his petition was that the "building was old" and in need of repairs and that he cannot be held responsible for an offence of culpable homicide, not amounting to murder, punishable with 10 years when a “qualified architect had undertaken repair work.’’
 
