NEW DELHI: A school cab driver has been charged with repeat sexual assault of a four-year-old girl while ferrying her to and from her school in   in north-west Delhi. The abuse was discovered only last week after the girl resisted going to school for some days. When her parents insisted on knowing why, the tot shared her trauma with them.

 When they heard this, the shocked parents approached the Model Town police station. Senior police officers confirmed on Tuesday that driver Shankar, a resident of a   in Burari, had been arrested within hours of the complaint. An FIR has been registered against him under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. Shankar is currently in Tihar Jail on a 14-day judicial remand.
 
 Police suspect the nursery student had been abused for some time before she was able to tell her parents of her ordeal. The girl was often alone in the vehicle towards the end of the cab’s run. It was probably during this time, the police officers presumed, that the cab driver touched the child’s inappropriately and threatened her whenever she cried out in pain.
 
 The cops are now examining the accused man’s mobile phone to check whether he filmed the girl or any other children. They are also digging into his antecedents to see if he was a repeat offender or was involved in any other criminal case.
 
 The girl’s parents have now alleged that other children too had complained about the cab driver’s misbehaviour after their daughter had exposed him.
 
 Soon after the cops were informed, they approached Shankar’s house, but found him missing. However, police tracked him down through electronic means. The driver initially refuted the allegation but eventually broke down and confessed to the crime. The cops are probing if he abused the other students whom he ferried in his car every day.
 
 Shankar’s   has been impounded. Police found that the cab had been hired by the girl’s school to transport students from the neighbouring colonies. However, the driver did not follow the guidelines on transport of schoolchildren. Police sources pointed out, for instance, that the cab did not have a female attendant travelling with the children nor did it have a video recorder that is mandatory for school vehicles as per a court order.
 
 The police team will also approach the school about these violations and seek a reply on why the school management had not ensured the norms were being followed. It is likely that a case will be registered against the school authorities.
 
 The girl was sent for a medical examination and is being counselled by experts to help her cope with the trauma. She had only been admitted to the school in February this year.
 
