MUMBAI: A kidney transplant saga involving a senior bureaucrat as patient has developed another hitch. Her maidservant, whose husband would have been a donor, seems to have changed her mind.

 The 'change' was evident at the third interview of the donor and his wife by minister of medical education and research Girish  , said government sources. They said she started weeping when someone asked her if she knew there are some risks involved in undergoing a donation surgery. “She then said she didn't realize the problems associated with transplants and wouldn't want her husband to donate a kidney if it means risking his life," said a source.
 
 The bureaucrat's application for a transplant involving her maid's husband had been rejected twice. The first application failed as the state authorization committee -which scrutinizes all requests for living organ transplants among unrelated persons -said it couldn't establish “love and affection" as the basis for the donation as is required by the transplant law. The bureaucrat, who is a single mother suffering from kidney failure for over a decade, moved for a review, which was carried out by a highranking health official; the application was rejected this time too. The third application was slated after chief minister   asked for her application to be reviewed another time. The minister for medical education and research  , accordingly, scheduled the third meeting which took place on Thursday (December 26). While the bureaucrat didn't come from Delhi, where she is now posted, the minister interviewed the potential donor and his wife. It was during the inter view that the wife broke down.
 
 However, the interview is technically not yet over since the bureaucrat, who is undergoing treatment for an infection even while undergoing dialysis thrice a week in Delhi, didn't turn up for the interview. A senior   official said there hasn't been much movement in the case because there is so much attention. “In contrast, Union external affairs minister   got permission in Delhi for an unrelated transplant in a short while," said the official.
 
 When contacted, minister Mahajan said the paperwork for the third interview wasn't yet complete. “I have yet to submit the report to the chief minister as I have not yet recorded the statement of the patient. As soon as we take her statement, we will send the report to the CM. The final decision will be taken by him,“ Mahajan told TOI.
 
