Bokaro: The Bokaro   Company Limited (BPSCL), a joint venture of Steel Authority of India Limited (SAIL) and Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC), is set to increase its power production by diversifying into power general from  . Apart from setting rooftop solar panels in major buildings across the town, the BPSCL is working on a plan to install a a Solar Power park. 

 The company has taken its first step towards harnessing solar energy by installing 100 KW rooftop solar PV units over its administrative building inside the plant premises. “We have begun installation of 2MW capacity rooftop solar photovoltaic units (total 39 units) on various buildings, including the Bokaro General Hospital, the administrative building of   (BSL) and Bokaro Niwas, the guest house of the BSL,” said Aeshwarya S, BPSCL spokesperson.
 
 The 338 MW-capacity BPSCL is one of the four thermal power plants operational in the district. It meets the demands of captive steam and power requirements of the BSL. 
 
 Till 2016, the BPSCL struggled to install a 500 MW power plant at Bathua in the district. It had sought help from the state government for installation of a thermal power unit in 900 acres land provided by the BSL.
 
 But facing stiff opposition by the local residents, which delayed the project, the management of the BPSCL dropped the idea. Later it ventured into solar power sector. 
 
 “The BPSCL is the first in this region to set up solar panels in such a large scale. “MECON is the consultant for the solar power project and has been awarded work on turnkey basis at a cost of Rs 8.7 crore by BPSCL,” said Aeshwarya.
 
 The project is expected to be completed in six months. The solar power generated from this project will be utilised by the BSL. The BPSCL will also install a greenfield 20M W solar PV project at an estimated cost of Rs 100 crore, for which the BSL will provide land in Bokaro township. The project is expected to be completed in two years, added Aeshwarya. 
 
 BPSCL CEO, K Harinarayana said that after successful completion of the projects, the BPSCL will plan a 200 MW solar park on the land earmarked for 2x250MW thermal power plant at Bathua in the district.
 
 
