Having led Congress to a massive victory in Punjab, Captain   is arguably in the most envious position both outside and within Congress. Amarinder, who takes oath as chief minister on March 16, spoke to
  & 
 on the challenges ahead.

 
 
 The tally certainly exceeded my expectations of 62-66 seats… My candidature from Lambi changed the game in Malwa as people appreciated my challenge to the sitting CM even if it meant a loss.
 
 
 
 The surge was only in social media. Their biggest mistake was to club me and Badals together and pronounce jail terms for Akalis. Time is over for hate politics. 
 
 
 
 Our genuine promises on waiving off debt, job for 33 lakh households and 50 lakh smartphones to youth. More importantly, the promise by a regional leader like me. See in old days, there were only two parties nationally, Congress & BJP... Now there are regional leaders. Time has come to pick up regional leaders in these national parties and build political campaign around them who can challenge regional parties.
 
 
 
 As far as regional representation is concerned that should be enhanced.
 
 
 
 These are IITians and corporate businessmen. 
 
 (laughs). I speak my heart out. My outspokenness and forthrightness won hearts.
 
 
 
 Our immediate attention would be on health and education.
 
 
 
 I am particularly against this chitta (heroin) that has got in the veins of the state youth. I am certain that we will root out this problem in four weeks. A special task force is being constituted and action would be taken against any A, B or C found involved in promoting drugs.
 
 
 
 Let me say at the outset, there would be no space for vendetta politics in Punjab. 
 
 
 
 I cannot say what role he has got in Congress. It is for   to decide on the matter. As far as selection of the state cabinet is concerned that decision will also be taken by Rahul Gandhi. As far as I know we are going to have senior leaders in the state cabinet who have won assembly elections at least thrice.
 
 
 
 Prashant Kishor is the one who put our strategy in place. I am grateful to the work. But it’s not that Congress was sleeping and he worked. We were working as hard.
 
