NEW DELHI: China is using much diplomatic persuasion to get India to sign on to its ambitious One Belt, One Road (OBOR) project as the crucial summit gets ready to take off in Beijing on Sunday . India has refused to send any representative to the summit.

 Of late, the Chinese ambassador and his deputy have gone out of their way to entice India into joining OBOR. Chinese ambassador Luo Zhaohui said India and China should synergise the `Act East' policy with OBOR.“OBOR and regional connectivity could provide China and India with fresh opportunities... for bilateral cooperation,“ he said.
 
 India, he noted, has reservations over OBOR as it says that the   (CPEC) passes through PoK, raising sovereignty concerns. “China has no intention to get involved in the sovereignty and territorial disputes between India and Pakistan. China supports the solution of the disputes through bilateral negotiations between the two countries.   is for promoting economic cooperation and connectivity . It has no connection to or impact on sovereignty issues.“
 
 India's absence is a problem for China, because it's participation would be key to the success of the initiative. However, India has refused, given China's insistence on CPEC. In addition, India considers OBOR to be a unilateral enterprise for China to export its excess capacity .
 
 India has watched with concern how Beijing has changed the ground reality in areas in the  , building the political narra tive to suit the reality. In   too, China has moved from withdrawal in 1963 to claiming the entire state in 2005. Therefore, India is unlikely to buy the Chinese line that CPECOBOR is merely a connectivity story .India regards CPEC as a Chinese geo-strategic project going through Indian territory with the intent of making Gwadar port a military installation.
 
 Another senior Chinese official Liu Jinsong told a thinktank in Mumbai recently that India was already a part of OBOR due to its participation in Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank, Bangladesh-China-IndiaMyanmar corridor as well as its accession to Shanghai Cooperation Organisation.India has endorsed the SCO joint statement which “reiterated support to the initiative of the Silk Road Economic Belt“. But New Delhi is not budging.
 
 
