Nagpur: Instead of providing uninterrupted city bus service to promote use of public transport, the cash-strapped Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) will not run 88 buses on 32 routes on Sundays and public holidays. The decision will be implemented from Sunday, July 23.  According to a notification issued by the transport department and Delhi Integrated Multi-modal Transit System Limited (DIMTS), the decision was taken in view of less number of passengers as offices and markets are closed on Sundays. DIMTS-Nagpur has conveyed the decision to all the three Red bus operators. CP Tiwari, head of DIMTS-Nagpur, said bulk of the passengers are students and office goers. “On holidays, their number is less,” he said. Though NMC has permit to operate buses on over 142 routes, ‘Apli Bus Seva’ operates buses on 66 routes depending on the patronage, said Tiwari and added, “The number of buses on most routes to suburban localities will be cut on Sundays and holidays,” he said.  It is learnt, the NMC transport department did not conduct any study to assess the passenger rush, implying that the decision was based on assumptions. To a query, Tiwari said the curtailed service will not affect the city bus operations. According to him, if needed buses will be added on routes where there is demand.  Transport committee chairman Bunty Kukde said he is not aware of the development. Kukde, who has always maintained that all 432 city buses should ply on various routes as citizens have a right to uninterrupted service, said he will look into the matter.  Though NMC’s transport authorities attribute the decision to the less passenger volume on Sundays and public holidays, traffic expert Vinay Kunte blamed it on lack of prompt operations. “The decision will cause inconvenience to private industrial workers in MIDC Butibori, Hingna and other areas,” he said. The decision will definitely cause transportation issues, said members of industrial associations in the city. Complaints can be made on WhatsApp The transport department of Nagpur Municipal Corporation has launched a complaint redressal mechanism for passengers on WhatsApp. One can officially register complaint against the bus staff during journey, insanitation at depots or poor services on the number 7507000456. The service is an addition to the NMC helpline number 0712-2779099, said CP Tiwari, head of DIMTS-Nagpur. 