KOLKATA: If you had been noticing a spike in your weekly bills, here's why: the retail prices of vegetables across markets in the city have suddenly shot up because of a sudden shortage in supply , thanks to a production shortage.

 While the prices of several vegetables have increased, the price surge of some has been sharp. The price of tomato has shot up by 25% in the past 15 days, with the vegetable selling for as much as Rs100 a kilo in some markets. Prices of other vegetables, such as capsicum and beans, have also shot up by Rs 20 akilo the the past two weeks.
 
 Vegetable retailers at Lake Market on Sunday sold tomato at Rs 100 a kilo, while prices in markets like the one at Manicktala hovered between Rs 95 and Rs 100 per kilo. “Our hands are tied now. Prices have shown a sudden spurt at the wholesale markets in the past one week, and there has been an unprecedented rise,“ said  , a retailer at Lake Market.
 
 In  , one of the largest wholesale markets of the city, tomato sold at Rs 70 to Rs 72 a kilo. “Most of the tomato supplies in Kolkata market come from Bengaluru at this time of year. There are price fluctuations every year, but this time it is beyond calculations,“ said Anup Gupta, a vegetable wholesaler at Koley Market.
 
 According to Uttam Mukherjee, chief supervisor of Koley market, supplies have come down by almost 30%. “If a wholesaler was importing 10 trucks of tomatoes, he is now getting eight. Shortage in supplies is pushing up prices,“ he said. Some traders also procure tomato from wholesalers in Indore. “We have never imagined that prices could go up to Rs 80 per kilo. There is a shortage in production. The Centre had provided support to farmers, but that seems to have had no reflection on the prices,“ said Sushil Soni, a tomato wholesaler in Indore, Madhya Pradesh.
 
 Vegetable traders on Sunday pointed out that agitating farmers across the country had destroyed truckloads of tomato last month. “In some cases, the tomato crop was not even harvested,“ Soni said.
 
 Prices of other vegetables, mostly the ones procured from other states, have also headed north. “Prices of capsicum and beans have gone up by Rs 20 per kilo in the last two weeks,“ said  , a vegetable retailer at Manicktala market.
 
 What has come as a breather is the stable price of local vegetables like striped gourd and brinjal. “Prices of these vegetables have remained steady and are being sold between Rs 35 and Rs 40 per kilo,“ Mukherjee said.
 
 
 
 
 Buyers know there is going to be a rise and fall in the price of seasonal produce; it's a normal demand-and-supply thing playing itself out. But, when there is an abnormal and unchecked rise in the price of certain vegetables, then it may indicate something more than usual market forces at play. The situation calls for much stricter monitoring.
 
