

 In the Directive Principles of State Policy, which are guidelines for framing laws by the government, the Constitution mentions cow slaughter.
 
 Article 48 of the Constitution which is a directive principle on organisation of agriculture and animal husbandry says that states shall organise agriculture and animal husbandry in modern scientific lines, take steps for preserving and improving the breeds and prohibiting the slaughter of cows, calves and other milch and draught cattle.
 
 
 
 No. The parliament and state legislatures derive their power to legislate under article 246 of the constitution read with schedule 7, which divides the power of legislation of central and state legislatures.
 
 There is a union, state and concurrent list of legislative powers. The preservation, protection and improvement of stock and prevention of animal disease, veterinary training and practice comes under the state list. This means that individual states have exclusive powers to make laws regarding slaughter of cattle under their jurisdiction.
 
 
 
 
 With a few exceptions, cow slaughter is banned in most of the states. There are no restrictions in Kerala, West Bengal, Arunachal Pradesh, Mizoram, Meghalaya,  , Tripura and Sikkim. Although there are different state level legislations against cow slaughter, there is no uniformity of the law. In Manipur, there is a 1939 decree passed by the king at that time, which prescribes prosecution for cow slaughter. Despite this, beef is widely consumed in the state. Laws in other states are different with some allowing slaughter of old or diseased animals.
 
 The punishments for violating the bans are also differ from state to state.
 
 
 
 
 It varies from state to state. For instance, beef can be imported in sealed containers to be served to foreigners in Uttar Pradesh.
 
 Similarly, in 2016 the Bombay high court had ruled that the Maharashtra government’s ban on slaughter of beef in the state doesn’t mean that people couldn’t consume meat imported from other states.
 
 On the other hand, there is a complete ban in states like Haryana and Delhi.
 
 
 
 
 The apex court has given contradictory rulings on cow slaughter. In a 1958 case, where a five judge bench led by then Chief Justice of India SR Das was deciding the constitutionality of cattle slaughter bans in Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh, it ruled that cattle — except cows of all ages and calves -— not capable of milch and draught can be slaughtered.
 
 It stated that keeping cattle with no economic use would be a burden on the nation’s cattle feed. It also observed that this meat is cheaper than mutton and hence could be used by poor for food. In 2005, a seven-judge bench headed by then Chief Justice of India RC Lahoti ruled against this judgment observing that nutrition can not necessarily be associated with non-vegetarian food and that too originating from slaughtering cow and its progeny.
 
 
 
