NEW DELHI: Rejecting the opposition charge that the   was resorting to “politics of subsidy”, its Delhi convener,  , said AAP’s election campaign for the upcoming municipal polls was focused on four issues: BJP-Congress, garbage, corruption and house tax.

 Speaking to TOI, Pandey said: “I am intentionally calling BJP and Congress an ‘issue’ because these two parties have held the reins of civic bodies for the last 20 years. They have reduced corporations to a den of corruption and Delhi to a dustbin.” 
 
 The senior AAP functionary claimed that the public was angry over poor sanitation and corruption. “There is anger against BJP, and Congress too,” he said.
 
 Pandey pointed out that “the failure of municipal corporations to deliver on PM Narendra Modi’s flagship programme, Swachh Bharat Abhiyaan, is reflected in the poor state of sanitation — the prime responsibility of civic bodies.”
 
 On AAP’s announcement that it would move to waive house tax on residential properties, he said: “If we take all the three corporations, only 20% of house tax is being collected, while the remaining 80% is getting lost to corruption.” He added: “House tax is an issue that affects people from lower middle, middle, upper middle and the upper class. For years, a large section of people has been exploited due to corrupt practices in the house tax collection system. Moreover, the civic bodies have failed to improve their tax collection.”
 
 In this backdrop, Pandey said, the promise to do away with property tax on residential properties was aimed at “giving people relief from this parallel economy of corruption and win the faith of people”. 
 
 He said: “Government is not a profit centre; it is supposed to be a welfare body. Taxes are paid to get good services from civic bodies and government. So, if you provide good services, people will have faith in the system and pay taxes. This is what AAP seeks to achieve, just as it did through relief on power and water fronts.” 
 
 Arguing that the move would not impact revenue collection adversely, Pandey said: “There are multiple sources of tax collection for civic bodies: advertising through legal hoardings, toll tax, parking charges, and so on. Financial misgovernance has choked revenue generation. If AAP wins the elections, it will bolster tax collection from these sources and make the taxpayer a stakeholder in development.”
 
 On the charge of playing “politics of subsidy”, Pandey said: “What we are doing is not politics of subsidy. It is pro-poor governance and what is called an example of linear economics.” 
 
 He said the city government was attacked for making water and power cheaper. “If we were wrong, then the city’s economic condition should have been adversely affected, but that did not happen. Instead, it remains quite strong. We made the common man a stakeholder in governance. The government does not have to work like a private bank,” Pandey said. 
 
 On the party’s civic poll prospects, Pandey said: “The profile of the AAP cadre matches the nature of municipal elections. A lot of AAP members and senior functionaries have been fighting for the rights of people on issues that are linked to civic bodies.”
 
 
