NAGPUR:   by various government agencies was one of the prime reasons for Nagpur’s 137 rank among 434 cities in   2017, said former mayor and MLC Anil Sole. 

 Nagpur scored 1,159 marks out of 2,000. After the results, were announced, Sole told TOI that he approached   (GVF) and conducted a post-mortem of the survey to find out where did the NMC lagged. 
 
 He said that one of Nagpur’s main entry points — the railway station and its vicinity — is not a welcoming sight with heaps of garbage, unbearable stench, beggar menace and stray dogs, among other issues. The Nagpur railway station and   (MSRTC) inter-city bus stand at Ganeshpeth and its vicinity had a very dismal performance in the final survey report. 
 
 “NMC has performed very poor in self-assessments and citizen surveys,” he said. Citing an example, he said in Citizen Feedback column, NMC had approached only 7,061 citizens out of a population of 24,05,665 (mere 12%), while Indore, which has a population 19.64 lakh contacted 80,753 citizens and topped in the category. Even Bhopal and Pune performed well as far as citizen’s feedback is concerned. 
 
 NMC also lost 100 marks in solid waste treatment category. Pimpri-Chinchwad scored the highest 180 marks, while Nagpur scored 82. 
 
 In   App, the city scored only 20 marks. Another major area where the NMC scored very poorly — only 105 — in the open defecation category. The situation on ground zero is not as serious as far as open defecation is concerned, said Sole. According to Sole, under this category the NMC failed to keep its promise of constructing public toilets. In self-declaration, NMC gave 536 out of 900 marks. 
 
 NMC had also failed to convey the message of Swachh Bharat Abhiyan among the citizens. 
 
 Echoing Sole’s views, MLC Prakash Gajbhiye said NMC should lead the collective efforts of various agencies to keep the city clean. “The civic body’s casual approach should also be blamed for poor ranking,” he said. 
 
 According to  , founder president of Green Vigil, Nagpur city’s position has improved as compared to 2015 ranking. “This time, the ranking was a collective failure of various agencies in the city,” he pointed out citing example of unclean railway station and MSRTC bus stop, which is not under NMC’s purview. 
 
 Not having sewage treatment plant continuous to be the weakest link for Nagpur, he said. “Also, feedback was taken from only 7,061 citizens from Nagpur while in the other cities 70,000 to 80,000 people were contacted. This seems to be one of the main drawback of the Survekshan,” he said.
 
