Coimbatore/ Udhagamandalam: International Tiger Day, which falls on July 29 every year, was celebrated at Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve (STR) in Erode district and Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR) in the Nilgiris district. 

 At STR, the range officers and forest guards had a visit from members of a non-profit organisation, who interacted and gifted the officers celebrating the day.
 
 The organisation, Wild Tiger Foundation, whose main aim is to focus on conserving the tiger habitats in South India, by raising funds and creating awareness, has donated torches, water coolers and backpacks for officers and guards at STR. “We also interacted with them to understand their challenges on the field and see if we could raise funds to create some facilities for them,” said one of the organisation’s founders, Gautom Menon.
 
 Saying that the tiger continues to be endangered species and requires special attention, Menon added, “We are planning to work closely with the forest department and other tiger experts in Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary and Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve.” Menon with IT business entrepreneur and co-founder of the foundation, Suprej Venkat, also questioned the officers about tigers’ behaviour in their natural habitat.
 
 At MTR, which is a home for around 59 tigers, about 150 school children took part in awarness campaign, painting and other activities to mark the day.
 
 Programmes such as painting, elocution, quiz, and paste painting competitions were conducted for school children at Theppakadu in MTR. “The main aim was to create awareness among 150 school children from 12 schools in Gudalur and Pandalur about the tigers and their relevance in the ecosystem,” said Srinivas R.Reddy, Field Director, MTR.
 
 Besides, rallies were conducted involving the school children at Masinagudi town and at Thorappalli in Gudalur. Wearing tiger masks, school students held placards saying ‘save tigers’ in the rally. Later in the evening, the winners were awarded by the forest officials in a function held at Theppakadu.
 
 
