NOIDA: Given the security threat faced by residents of gated society of   sector 78 following the missing maid episode on Wednesday, a delegation of   met SP City Arun Kumar Singh in his office late Thursday night (around 10 pm) to discuss the matter related to Mahagun Moderne Apartment of sector-78. They have demanded police verification of house helpers with a sustained drive as well as increased security in the area.

 “A delegation of FONRWA consisting of president N P Singh, secretary general A N Dhawan and other office bearers met S P City in his on Thursday late night to discuss the matter related to security breach and mob violence in Mahagun Moderne Apartment of sector 78 of Wednesday. The delegation emphasized the need for increased security of the residents of Mahagun Moderne and nearby societies. The delegation also requested SP Kumar to depute adequate force from Friday because of a mosque in that area,” said Sanjeev Kumar advisor FONRWA.
 
 The delegation also requested the SP city to make a drive for police verification of all such workers in the city. “We pointed out that applications for verifications submitted in the police department for workers/tenants are not complete as proper verification of those documents are done in a systematic process. Most times these documents are simply stamped by the local police chowki personnel with no verification done on them,” said N P Singh, president FONRWA.
 
 FONRWA had earlier (on Thursday) also written to Anand Kumar, Additional Director General (ADG) Law and Order, government of Uttar Pradesh for deployment of police security in the sector as well as creation of a special police cell/wing to look into document verification of all residents of Noida including domestic help, service providers and the vast floating population working as labourers etc. in the many industries of the city so as to ensure verified domestic help, service providers, tenants, factory workers etc. in the city.
 
 SP city assured the delegation for appropriate action in the matter in a time bound manner.
 
