NEW DELHI: Having rol led out financial reforms and opened up markets to foreign direct investment, the government has now set its eyes on institutional and judicial reforms, time-bound creation of infrastructure and generation of enough  , which it can showcase in the 2019 polls.
 
  This would be complemented by further improvement in business climate, easing of labour laws, further liberalising FDI and simplification of goods and service tax while lowering rates for direct tax — the roadmap for which has already been announced by finance minister  .
  
  NITI Aayog’s three-year draft action plan has laid out a blueprint for the government over the next three years.
  
  A handful of senior government officials that ET spoke with said the need of the hour is to reform India’s age old institutions so they are aligned to current needs. “Running 21st century governance with 19th century institutions will not lead to transformation of India,” said a top government official.
  
  Institutional reforms could see rebuilding of institutes like UGC, AICTE and the Medical Council of India — the process for which has already been started by NITI Aayog.
  
  Pointing to the need for quicker judicial reforms, another senior official said lack of upgraded technology meant that decisions took longer, hampering India’s performance in the ease of doing business index. While India’s rank in the global Doing Business report of the World Bank took a beating, with just a one spot increase, the Department of Industrial Policy and Promotion is hoping to break into the top 50 next year.
  
  While much of this would require legislative changes in the Parliament — something that looks difficult at this point of time considering the lack of numbers in the Upper House — the government is trying different means like persuading states to take the lead, rewarding best performing states and simply notifying some changes.
  
  Wary of being labelled a government with jobless growth, the Modi-led regime has also kick-started the exercise for setting up coastal   zones — the first two of which would come up in Gujarat and Andhra Pradesh.
  
  “These wil l have n excellent infrastructure and enabling environment and will kickstart manufacturing jobs and serve as an example,” another official said.
  
  Besides, it has identified labour intensive sectors where employment generation could be incentivised, much on the lines of employment package for the textile sector.
  
  Hoping to stay on target for its disinvestment plans, the government may enhance spending on high priority sectors across urban and rural India to stay on its commitment for ‘sabka saath, sabka vikas’, urgent need for which has also been highlighted in the three-year draft action plan. 
