MEERUT: Suspecting foul play, police rushed to a cremation ground here and removed the   of a woman from the pyre and sent it for postmortem to investigate the circumstances behind her death. The woman's brother was also detained for questioning. The autopsy report, however, stated that the cause of death was due to hanging, thus confirming the family's claim that the woman committed suicide. The woman's brother was later released. 

 The incident was reported from in Malyana locality of Meerut on Wednesday. The 24-year-old woman, Deepa, committed suicide on Tuesday night when the other family members had gone to a relative's house following the death of her uncle. When they returned on Wednesday morning, they found Deepa hanging from the ceiling fan. Instead of informing the police, the family hurriedly arranged for her cremation. Curious neighbours informed police, who immediately rushed to the cremation ground to take possession of the body. According to Vijender Balmiki, Deepa's father, "My brother expired on Tuesday evening. All the family members, except Deepa, had gone to my brother's home. We stayed at my brother's place on Tuesday night and when we returned on Wednesday morning, we found Deepa's body hanging from the ceiling fan." 
 
 When the police reached the cremation spot, relatives of the girl and a few members of the Balmiki sect got agitated and even jostled with the police, saying they would not allow the cops to take away the body. Police soon sent more personnel to take the body in their custody. By the time the policemen got the body out of the pyre, it was half burnt. The body was immediately sent for postmortem. Deepa's brother   was detained for questioning, said police. Sachin Malik, station officer of   police station, said, "The   stated that the cause of death was due to hanging. We have released the deceased's brother." 
 
 According to sources, Deepa was in love with a boy belonging to another caste and the couple even got married. 
 
 Their marriage was registered in court in December 2016.
 
 
