JALANDHAR: After a gap of few years, a new case of ‘holiday bride’ has come to light in the state with a   writing to external affairs minister Sushma Swaraj seeking action against her New Zealand-based NRI husband who “married her just to sexually exploit her and then deserted her”.  , 28, has sought that the passport of her husband  , 30, be cancelled so that he can then be   to India. 

 Acting on the letter written by Kaur, Indian high commission in New Zealand has initiated action against Singh. The high commission has now sought copies of different documents related to cases registered against him here. According to Kaur, a dowry case has already been registered against her husband and a look out circular (LOC) issued by Jalandhar police. In addition, a court in Jalandhar has declared him a proclaimed offender.
 
 Kaur and Singh got married on July 2, 2015. She lived with him for one month after which he left for New Zealand. He came back to India in December, 2015, and they were again together for a fortnight. She alleged that just after Singh went back, her in-laws wanted her to return to her parents’ home. She still tried to save her marriage but after his another trip to the country, they tricked her to return to her parents’ home, she said.
 
 She alleged that Singh stopped taking her calls and it was conveyed to her that the “relationship” was over. She then got a case registered against him on August 2, 2016, in Jalandhar under sections 406 and 498-A of IPC.
 
 “Now, I realize that I was just a ‘holiday bride’ for him. I had heard and read about such cases in Punjab earlier but I never thought that it would happen to me as our marriage took place due to involvement of close relatives from either side. Both families have common relatives too,” Kaur told TOI on Tuesday. 
 
 In her letter to the Union minister, she has said, “With great hopes, I seek justice from your good self, as I have been betrayed, sexually exploited, tortured, harassed and thrown out of home within just one month of my marriage. It is a glaring example as how NRI people come to India to get married and after fulfilling their sexual desires, they desert their wives.”
 
 “It is my humble request that stringent action as per law should be initiated against my husband Ramandeep Singh, residing in Auckland, New Zealand, by cancelling his passport and deporting him to India,” she added.
 
 It is after a gap of a few years that a case of ‘holiday bride’ has come up in Punjab. Around six-seven years back, several such cases were reported to the police. It was after a lot of hue and cry on the issue that the SAD-BJP government in January 2011 had established a special cell to address the issue.
 
