 (name changed), a 30-year-old operations head of a reputed  , was assaulted, robbed and stripped before being abandoned near   late at night last week by two bike-borne robbers. It took him 45 minutes to find his clothes, after which he found help and went to a police station to lodge a complaint.

 Suresh, a resident of BG Road, Hulimavu, was attacked and abdu­cted by two armed men around 7.45 pm on Tuesday last week. He was near the Sai Baba temple in   when the attack took place. According to his complaint, he was dragged onto the bike between the two men and taken to a lonely place near Nobonagar on the Hulimavu lakebed.
 
 According to an officer who is part of the investigations, he was assaulted and forced to hand over his gold ornaments, including a chain and a ring. “The accused asked him to strip to check if he was wearing any other ornaments. They also checked his clothes for money and other valuables. But he wasn’t carrying any cash. Later, they threw his phone and clothes away before fleeing, leaving him naked.”
 
 While being robbed, the men had claimed to be from   area and called people in Hulimavu their “enemies” (this could be, as police said, because they probably have been operating in the Hulimavu area). According to the police, taking away the clothes could have been a way to ensure that he wouldn’t find help easily.
 
 Suresh was hesitant to call for help till he had found his clothes, fearing that people might not believe him or mistake his intentions. After 45 minutes of searching in the dark, he found his clothes and mobile phone, which was too damaged to be used.
 
 He found a garage open nearby and sought help. Using their phone, he called his brother. Suresh and his brother then went to the police station at around 10.30 pm and filed a complaint.
 
 The police took him to a private hospital on BG Road for treatment, said the officer. Suresh said it was too dark and he couldn’t recall the men clearly, but he gave details of what they wore, and mentioned that they spoke in Kannada.
 
 The Hulimavu police have registered a case of robbery with attempt to cause grievous hurt, under Section 397 of the Indian Penal Code.
 
