BENGALURU: Even as security concerns are being raised over   (EVM), which were also used in the recently concluded   elections, Karnataka's information technology minister   has thrown down the gauntlet at the Union government -to have an EVM hackathon in Bengaluru.

 In his tweets, Kharge quoted a news report that says the Union government has rubbished the allegations of the Congress, SP and the BSP and said: “@rsprasad, best way to put a rest to this is by al lowing @GoI_MeitY & @Startup_Kar to have a hackathon on seeing if EVMs can be hacked“.
 
 He added: “@rsprasad We will be glad to host the EVM hackathon here in the start up capital.Will be good to see disruption if any. #EthicalHacking“ Kharge's challenge comes in the wake of Union science and technology and IT minister  's comments against opposition parties earlier this week. “If you win, then the EVMs are fine, but if you lose, then the EVMs are tampered. Wow! This is a great logic,“ he had said.
 
 While the move may seem po litically motivated to challenge the massive mandate given to the BJP in Uttar Pradesh and a response to Prasad's comments, Kharge says it is more to do with the “absolute faith“ being shown in EVMs used for parliamentary and state elections in India.
 
 “The principle rule of science is to question and have curiosity about things. Putting absolute faith in machines is not a good sign for science and technology.Scientific temper dictates questioning the functioning of things,“ he said.
 
 Kharge said he's serious about the challenge and considering the huge startup and ethical hacking community in Bengaluru, it will be good to see whether EVMs are indeed tamper-proof.
 
 “It will be good for the future of elections,“ he said, citing that similar such feelers for an ethical hackathon have been sent out to the EC and EVM makers.
 
 The Supreme Court is currently in the process of hearing the EVM tampering case. The apex court has sought the EC's response on a petition that raised doubts over their security features.
 
