BATHINDA: The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) has accused the   of tacitly supporting those locking horns with it to gain control of the   of   in the state. SGPC has ongoing land disputes with the local committees or individuals at many places in Bathinda, Mansa, Moga and Barnala districts.

 On Friday, 35 members of the SGPC from Bathinda, Mansa, Barnala, Muktsar, Moga and Faridkot districts on Friday assembled at Takht Damdama Sahib in Talwandi Sabo, and passed a resolution for protecting the land pieces belonging to the religious body.
 
 SGPC president Kirpal Singh Badungar said a letter had been written to the Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh to direct the district administrations and the police to deal sternly with organizations which had or were trying to usurp the SGPC land. The SGPC members also decided to call on the Punjab governor to urge him to direct the state government to support their “religious cause”.
 
 Badungar alleged, “After the change of the government, Congress leaders have started supporting certain outfits and provoking others to usurp lands belonging to SGPC. It all is being done on political considerations and we condemn it.”
 
 The SGPC chief said he was written to Amarinder and reminded him that his forefathers had donated number of lands to religious bodies, but now the Congress leaders under his rule were trying to usurp lands from the religious body. This would never be tolerated, he added.
 
 Most recently, Bhai Roop Chand Langar Committee of Bhai Rupa village in Bathinda had locked horns with SGPC over the control of 161 acres there.
 
 Badungar said SGPC had won the case pertaining to 161 acres at Bhai Rupa in the Supreme Court, yet the Congress leaders were provoking the local committee to take control of the land forcibly. “Likewise 130 acres of land belonging to Gurdwara Patshahi Nauvi at Maur Kalan village, also in Bathinda, has been usurped by some persons. Some radicals are trying to gain control of Gurdwara Tambu Mall in Moga by removing the local committee appointed by SGPC, and 12 acres belonging to Gurdwara Guru Granth Sahib at Tripatsar village in Bathinda has also been usurped,” he said.
 
 On the other hand, the langar committee members also assembled at Bathinda on Friday. Its president Rajwinder Singh and secretary Dharam Singh Khalsa said, “The disputed 161 acres in our village have been with the langar committee for over 300 years. It was donated by Bhai Roop Chand in the 17th century to the committee. We are 11th generation descendants of Roop Chand’s clan. SGPC forcibly wants to take control of the land on political considerations but we will not allow it to do that and are ready to make any sacrifice for it.”
 
