NEW DELHI: In a bid to ensure that the   in India's ( ) affiliated state units implement the Lodha panel's reforms, the   (CoA) is mulling to seek the  's intervention to re-evaluate the one-state one-vote clause and go back to the original five-member selection committee from the current three.

 Out of the major reforms like one state one-vote, three year cooling off period, age cap of 70 years on administrators and the tenure of office-bearers in states and BCCI, which the state bodies are contesting, the CoA is willing to consider two of them, top board sources told TOI on Monday.
 
 If the one-state, one-vote reform of the Lodha committee is revised, states with multiple cricket bodies like Maharashtra and Gujarat would continue to enjoy voting rights. Even the government votes like the Railways, Services and University votes in BCCI would be restored. Under the Lodha reforms, the four state bodies in Maharashtra (Vidharbha, Mumbai,   and Maharashtra) would get the voting rights on rotational basis.
 
 Even increasing the number of selectors from three to five would ensure better coverage of a vast country like India. "The CoA will make efforts to reach out to the Supreme Court to see whether a common ground could be achieved. Otherwise, this tug of war does not seem to end," a top board functionary said.
 
 Expressing satisfaction over the planned move, a West Zone representative said: "It would be good for the cricket bodies in Gujarat and Maharashtra and others. The CoA has taken the right initiative in bringing all the state bodies together."
 
 A few of the state associations even wanted the three-year cooling off and age tenure clause to be altered. However, the CoA isn't too convinced about it.
 
 It was revealed that the CoA would meet the state representatives again, if need be, and thrash out the 'common points' before firming up the petition. Sources said CoA would approach the top court under one banner and discourage a battery of lawyers from state bodies filing the same set of petitions in the Supreme Court.
 
 The CoA is keen to ensure the implementation of the Lodha reforms and thus willing to help the state associations present their issues in the apex court.
 
 This move from CoA is significant because it comes at a time when it has managed to convince the BCCI officials to pick the team for Champions Trophy and desist from sending a legal notice to   on the breach in Member Participation Agreement (MPA). 
 
