MEERUT: After witnessing two major incidents of violence and rioting in the last fifteen days, Saharanpur has become a major point of concern for newly-appointed director general of police (DGP) Sulkhan  . He visited Saharanpur on Sunday to take stock of security arrangements after violence between Dalits and Thakurs led to the death of one and injuries to dozens of people.
 
  “We will appeal to people of all communities to maintain peace and order. Violence does not benefit anyone. We will analyse both incidents which have taken place in the city,” said Singh.
  
  The clash had occurred after Dalits in Shabbirpur village objected to a procession for   being taken out by a group of people from the Thakur community.
  
  Earlier, on April 20 in Sadak Dudhali village, a procession observing   was to be taken out by a group led by   MP Raghav Lakhanpal. However, the police did not grant permission as the area was known to be communally sensitive and it was feared that the procession would stoke communal tensions in the predominantly Dalit and Muslim village. However, even without permission, the procession was taken out by Lakhanpal, and as the mob got violent, it even attacked the house of the then senior superintendent of police.
  
  An FIR was registered against Lakhanpal, but the   was soon transferred.
  
  “We will look at videos of all the incidents that have happened over the last 15 days and then do an analysis. We will ensure that peace is maintained in the region. We will do everything that it takes. We will investigate all the connected matters and can assure everyone that no one will be spared and no innocent persons are targeted,” said Singh.
  
  Speaking about Friday’s incident, Singh said, “It was unfortunate that such an incident occurred. But there was no violence once the police reached. We were able to contain the situation. We also appeal to everyone to maintain peace and order in the area. All communities must live together peacefully,” Singh added.
