As he turns 31, Sushant takes stock of a year that will, among other things, see him play an astronaut; his extravagant birthday gift to himself and why Homi Adajania's next is being reworked.

 After bidding 2016 good bye in London,   Rajput had headed to Dubai for an adventurous trip in the first week of January. Now, the 31-year-old actor is all set for the year ahead. He starts shooting for Tarun Mansukhani's next, Drive, in mid-February with co-star   and began prep for Sanjay Puran Singh Chauhan's space adventure, Chanda Mama Door Ke, in which he will be seen as an astronaut, on Friday. 
 
 The film rolls mid-year. 'I was really look ing forward to my first day of training in a   737 fixed base simulator, which was a lot of fun. I had done my homework by reading up extensively, so it wasn't very difficult. In fact I did 20 take-offs with a hundred percent accuracy, but the landing was a little difficult. I'll have two very distinctive looks in the film besides a little change in the way I speak,' says Sushant, who is also doing reading sessions for Drive and refutes rumours that the film is a remake of the 2011 Ryan Gosling-starrer neo-noir crime film by the same name. +'It's an original script,' he asserts.
 
 The actor has never worked with his Drive heroine Jackie before. They interacted for the first time at length while rehearsing for their joint act at the recently concluded 62nd JIO Filmfare Awards, for which they grooved to 'Aaj Jaane Ki Zid Na Karo', 'Aise Na Mujhe Tum Dekho' and 'Hamma Hamma'. 
 
 'We spoke about a lot of things.Both of us like reading so in between rehearsals, whenever I wrote something, she would come up to me and discuss it. She is a great dancer and extremely hard working but what I like the most about her is that her Hindi is superb,' Sushant says cheekily, revealing that he gave the Sri Lankan beauty some Hindi lessons too.
 
 For his 31st birthday today, Sushant intends to spend three-four hours of the day all by himself, a ritual he's been observing for years now. 'I might go touring the city on my bike and meet a few close friends later. I am looking forward to working even harder,' the birthday boy says. 
 
 Has he bought himself a present? 
 'When I was very young, I'd got a miniature   in blue with a packet of noodles. I loved playing with it and had wanted a real one ever since. As a gift to myself this year, I have booked a Maserati Quattroporte. It's expected to be delivered in a few weeks,' Sushant beams.
 
 His next release, Dinesh Vijan's directorial debut Raabta with  , was initially slated to release on Valentine's Day this year but has been now pushed to June.'We are done shooting for the film, barring a song sequence with Kriti which will happen soon. We wanted teenagers to watch the film as well and were looking for a date post the exam season,' he explains, and denies rumours that Homi Adajania's Takadum with Parineeti Chopra has been shelved.
 
 'The original script had certain similarities to the plot points of Ae Dil Hai Mushkil so the writer is reworking the script, which takes a lot of time. Once the final draft is ready, I'll look at it and give my dates for the film,' Sushant signs off.
 
