
 Well, I’ve always been an introvert. I have four elder sisters and being the youngest I was pampered. I was a studious child, heavily into academics. For the longest time I wouldn’t talk. I convinced myself I don’t need to. Also, my thoughts tend to run away from me. I realised quite early that by the time I articulate my thoughts into words, I’m on to another thought. And what comes out wasn’t what I thought of exactly. So not talking was a better option. Then, during college I joined  . During performances, I found the audience reacting to what I was doing. I was communicating without saying anything.
  
  
 
  Yes, I was. Like I said, to my surprise I excelled at Shiamak’s class and he took me as a company dancer. So, I found myself as a background dancer in his troupe.
  
  
 
  Excitement. For me the opposite of happiness isn’t sadness but boredom. If you’re excited about doing something then you are happy. I’m not saying be obsessive about it or try to control things around it or try to shape the future. The process of creating something should be exciting. Even when I’m excited thinking about it I’m happy. It means a lot to me that during the process of giving a shot I lose myself completely in the moment and become someone else. I may not consciously realise it then but on reflection you feel content. I want to freewheel, to fly without a compass, not to prove a point to anyone else but for my own fulfilment.
  
  
 
  ‘Relationship’ is a very, very broad term. There are different kinds of relationships. And they go beyond what we generally define as romance. One is to seek security. The other is you believe that because of your presence the other person is happy. It’s your inherent nature, which makes you believe so. It doesn’t mean anything but points towards self obsession. Even if you think you miss someone after, say, the relationship is over, you don’t miss the person. You miss the memory of being with someone rather than missing that person. But you fool yourself into believing otherwise. So this idea of being a good person and living with a goal-driven future with a partner itself is wrong. I’m not saying it can’t happen but the thing is you’re not a superman to achieve everything. You need two different sets of skills to survive in this field on your own terms and have a great relationship quotient as well. And these two sets of skills aren’t symbiotic towards each other. Right now, I’m also in the process of figuring myself out. Let me finish that first. Figuring out someone else comes much later. Yes, relationships can be very fulfilling, can give you a sense of security in yourself, in God, in your work, whatever… keep you going but they aren’t the solution.
  
  
 
  Depends upon the individual. Sometimes, you feel something because you’re supposed to feel something. That doesn’t necessarily mean it’s the right thing. You are almost obliged to feel something even if you don’t mean to.
  
  
 
  I’m not going to elaborate on that. I’m not in the right frame of mind talking specifically about it right now.
  
  
 
  Yes, I spoke about it for maybe two minutes and they made a whole interview around it. They forgot to include the 40-minute conversation I had about my film. Does that sound right to you? Is it fair to report on just one part of my life and ignore everything else? You may argue that it’s what the fans like and you’re just fulfilling a demand curve. But believe me; my real fans would respect my right to privacy. And is it fair to her? Maybe, she doesn’t like getting up in the morning and having her name splashed across the papers. Has anybody thought of that? I’ve yet to take her permission about speaking about our break-up and would like to extend that courtesy to her. In any which case, I’ve tweeted about it. It’s a matter of public record now. I’ve said that everything you know changes one morning… that two people who are close sometimes grow apart. It’s sad but there’s nothing you can do about it. What more can I add?
  
  
 
  Humans are the most complicated creatures on this earth, so nothing is impossible… Anything can happen.
  
  
 
  Yes, because I’m doing Raabta with her. I was linked with   during Shuddh Desi… These things tend to happen and you take it with a pinch of salt. What got me angry was that some people even believe my break-up is a publicity stunt. That’s one reason I want to stay clear of my personal space during interviews.
  
  (By: Devesh Sharma)
  
