The only place to find 
  these days is Snapchat. Since the actress has discovered the social media app, she has been on a roll! We caught up with her and got her talking about her latest Snapchat obsession, her upcoming film ‘Phillauri’ where she plays a friendly ghost, and her extremely shy and immensely popular co-actor  . 
 
 
 
 I believe in conspiracy theories and yes, I do believe that ghosts also exist. I was having this conversation with Rajkumar Hirani trying to tell him this, and he was like, “No, they don’t exist”. I went on talking about frequencies and how beyond a certain frequency, there must be something.
  
 
  
 Of course, I was afraid of ghosts! If I am afraid, that means I believe it, right? 
  
 
 
 I downloaded the app because I thought that Snapchat camera was really good. And then, it was just there in my phone for a while. One day, I was just not being able to sleep. I had done everything possible on other social media platforms, so I was like, ‘What should I do now?’ That’s when I started playing with it. I’m not a very social media savvy person. However, I feel Snapchat is an extension of my personality. I think I am such a random human being with such random thoughts and Snapchat is a great outlet for people like me. People are watching it, they are getting entertained, and that’s a plus point, which in turn is self-entertainment. 
  
 
  
 
 
 It could be. My manager tells me it’s a phase. She thinks I am Snapchatting too much and I am going to burn out in ten days. Let’s see. 
  
 
 
 It’s an ongoing thing. Every day there will be a different challenge, every day there is something you have to deal with because it’s a collaborative effort. You are working with many people, so there’s always going to be difference of opinion. Then the idea should be to get everyone on the same page. That’s especially true of us since we make films that are off-centre but yet in that commercial zone. 
  
 
 
 From the beginning! I might not be available physically all the time or I might not be present for some meetings as I could be busy with my acting commitments, but I always know what’s going on with regard to my production house. That is one of the main reasons why I am doing this with my brother. It really helps because we are on the same page, we have the same vision for our company  , things are always shared and decisions are always taken together. I know what is going on. Just because I am an actor doesn’t mean that I only deal with the creative side of it. 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 We want to make all kinds of films because ultimately you want to tell stories and you want different stories. As a storyteller, you want to push unique and different ideas. We also want to work with fresh talent; that’s the vision. ‘NH10’ was a very different film and then suddenly, we changed track to something as different as ‘Phillauri’.
 
  
 
 Not at all! It’s not about that and that wouldn’t be very intelligent also. I can’t possibly be doing all films and we plan on making more films, say two a year. If I fit the part, then why not? But at the same time, we are also pitching films to other actors where I don’t fit in. I want to clarify this fact – it's not that I've turned producer so that I can act in all my films. If I was making films for myself, then I would probably call my production house something else. It’s called ‘Clean Slate Films’ because it’s an ideology. ‘Clean Slate’ means to start anew without any prejudices or any so-called baggage of a hit. Right now, we are early players; we are like a startup. So maybe it’s easier to make films starring me at the moment. But when people will gain more confidence in us as a company, I am sure we will work with more and more actors. 
 
  
  
 
 We were sure from the beginning that we have to crack the trailer of our films. The trailer of ‘NH10’ was smashing, if I can say so myself. But we wanted to crack the trailer because that is the communication that works the most for a film. People go by the trailer and decide if they want to watch a film or not. So we worked really hard for ‘Phillauri’ trailer. We tried all sorts of things to finally get the trailer which we have today. It’s a very difficult film to be able to express in just one trailer, because there’s so much in the film and at the same time, you have to maintain that intrigue value. 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 Diljit is very quiet, very shy and keeps to himself. But when he is in an environment where he feels comfortable, he is dramatically different. I think he is a Snapchat personality then. So I keep telling him that if I can ever haunt somebody, I’ll haunt him so that I can actually know his real side. Now, he has opened up a little to me, so I see that side sometimes. He’s very funny but otherwise he keeps to himself. 
  
 
 
 I watch a lot of TV shows and then, movies. 
  
 
 
 AbRam! He’s this cute little thing that you want to eat. Sorry if it sounds wrong, but I want to eat him! He’s just too adorable. He’s so compassionate, sweet and such a loving child. 
 
  
  
 
