One can't get a creative high by simply playing a DVD and replicating scene it plays, "Srijit Mukherji every had said, while lashing out at the culture of remakes during CT's #TollyAgainstRemakes campaign.Rituparna Sengupta, too, had hit out against the format, saying, "Remakes are almost plagiarism." Over the past two weeks, Tolly veterans have spoken against the very idea of south remakes, asserting that it's doing the industry more harm than good. From   to   -flag bearers of original cinema in Bengal -to veterans like   and Prosenjit Chatterjee, all agree that the days of shoddy copy-paste jobs without an iota of creative input are numbered. But are the Tolly poster boys and the directors who thrive on remakes ready to move on to original content? Only time will tell. But for now, let's have a look at the Remake Rajas of the industry -actors and directors who have been part of the most number of south films with Bengali dialogues. Here goes...

 
 
 
  CHALLENGE, 2009; PARAN JAI JALIYA RE, 2009; BOLO NA TUMI AAMAR, 2010; YODDHA: THE WARRIOR, 2014 
 Early on in his career, Dev did Raj Chakrabarty's Challenge -a remake of the 2005 Telugu film, Bunny. The film not only did well at the BO and launched Dev's career, but also paved the way for many more remakes. This was followed by Ravi Kinnagi's Paran Jai Jaliya Re. A remake of 2007 hit Hindi film, Namastey London, the film added to Dev's stardom. Few stray hits later, Dev did Raj's Yoddha: The Warrior that tanked at the box office, putting a shadow over his film career. A remake of 2009 Telugu blockbuster, Magadheera, which featured Ram Charan Teja and Kajal Agarwal, Yoddha was so full of bounce and spin that it reminded one of a cricket match -one you didn't want to watch! This is the same Dev who wowed everyone with spellbinding performances in Chaander Pahaar and Buno Haansh. That really makes us wonder why he agreed to be a part of the mind-numbing Kelor Kirti!
 
 : Gangster, 2016; One, 2017
 Massive popularity doesn't always come with great acting skills. Yash was immensely popular as Aranya Singha Roy from TV serial Bojhena Shey Bojhena. In 2016, he debuted in  's Gangster and won the Filmfare Award for the best debut actor. So far so good. Just when we thought his career was picking steam, Yash starred in Birsa's One -a remake of Tamil film Thani Uruvan -leaving us wondering what we had done to deserve such a film. Given a chance, we'd love to see him acting in a film that has an original script, but nothing seems to be hovering on the horizon.
 
 : SAATHI, 2002; DUI PRITHIBI, 2010; BADSHA THE DON, 2016; POWER, 2016
 He was once in the news for his hefty paycheck of `1 crore, an amount which can fund a full-scale Bengali film today. Jeet, who started his career with the blockbuster Sathi -a remake of the Tamil film, Thulladha Manamum Thullum -seemed to have really soft corner for the genre. His resume is now mostly a list of remakes, with only a handful of memorable ones.For instance, Dui Prithibi -a remake of the Telugu film, Gamyam, in which he acted alongside Dev -was the highest grossing Bengali film of 2010. This was followed by a series of flops including the big budget Badshah-the Don, Power and Boss to name a few. Even exotic locales, beautiful heroines and catchy numbers couldn't do these films any good.
 
 : KELLAFATE, 2010; HARIPADA BANDWALA, 2017 
 He made his acting debut in Pijush Saha's Kellafate (2010), but it wasn't until 2013, when he starred in Raj Chakrabarty's Kanamachi, that he was appreciated for his acting chops. A few remakes later, it was discovered that Ankush is quite an impressive dancer as well. He went on to land a role in Srijit Mukherji's ambitious Zulfiqar, where he played Akhtar Ahmed. The role fetched him acclaim and the tag of an underrated actor, but just when we thought he has arrived, he went ahead and chose to work in Kelor Kirti and Haripada Bandwala. Both films tanked at the box office, pointing another thick finger at the weakening appeal of remakes.
 
 : BIKRAM SINGHA: THE LION IS BACK, 2012; ONE, 2017 
 Undoubtedly a powerhouse performer at the BO, Prosenjit Chatterjee has stunned us over the years with films like Dosar (for which he won the National Film Award -Special Jury Award in 2007), Autograph, Chokher Bali, Moner Manush and Praktan. But then came the mother of all remakes, Birsa Dasgupta's One. At the end of the film, the takeaway was saddening. Why would an actor like Prosenjit Chatterjee settle for a shot-to-shot south remake when he's capable of doing so much more? We had a deep `khawto' in our hearts after watching our `moner manush' in that film and the feeling is not dying out anytime soon.
 
 : Borbaad, 2014; Parbo Na Ami Chharte Toke, 2015 
 What can we say about an actor who debuted in Tollywood with a film titled Borbaad? We think, it's pretty self-explanatory. This was followed by Raj Chakraborty's Parbo Na Ami Chharte Toke (honestly, though it would have been easier to just let him go) opposite girlfriend  . A remake of Telugu film Uyyala Jampala, the film failed to make an impact on the audiences. Since then, his personal life has been more of a discussion than his films.
 
 : Faande Poriya Boga Kaande Re, 2011; Le Halua Le, 2012 
 A terrific actor (made evident in films like Prem Amar, Bojhena Shey Bojhena and Amanush), Soham too gave in to the lure of remakes. His films Faande Poriya Boga Kaande Re, Le Halua Le and Bangali Babu English Mem tanked at the box office and Soham quickly lost touch with good scripts. How did an actor as promising as Soham end up with such films? Looks like the industry fell short of good scripts to accommodate him. We are looking forward to the Sudeshna Roy-Abhijit Guha film where he's paired opposite Subhasree. We would love it if he stuns us yet again. 
 
 
 
 
 There was a time when Bangladeshi films were remade by Bengal filmmakers in a big way. I guess Swapan Saha’s Bhai Amar Bahi was the remake of a Bangladeshi film. Then in 1991, Motiur Rahman Panu from Bangladesh made Beder Meye Josna, which was the frame-by-frame remake of a famous Bangladeshi film by the same name. It went on to become a massive hit. It was around 2000 that directors shifted to south remakes. My films Sathi and Sanghi were inspired by south films, but they were certainly not frame-by-frame copies. South remakes became popular after Ravi Kinnagi and Raj Chakraborty, among others, started making them. 
 
 
 
 
 
 This uncrowned king of remakes has often wowed us with his films. But the pattern is getting a bit boring. Now that he has professed his love for original scripts, we are waiting eagerly for his next.
 
 
 
 He has given us a string of successful remakes such as Premer Kahini, Poran Jaye Jolia Re, 100% Love and Awaara, but it looks like he’s losing his grip over the kind of films he was once good at.
 
 
 
 
 Among the industry’s ‘remakers’, Raja has disappointed us the most. The ensemble star cast in Kelor Kirti, too, couldn’t help that film from sinking.
 
 
 
 
 He once claimed that he was the flag-bearer of original scripts, but soon turned remaker, whipping up films like Golpo Holeo Shotti, Gangster and One. We are hoping Birsa would go back to his strong suit — original scripts.
 
 
 
 
 His films may have catchy songs, but when it comes to content, he’s mostly disappointed us. Barring Amanush, an official remake of the 2003 Tamil blockbuster Kaadhal Kondein, he hasn’t been able to serve us anything memorable.
 
 
