NAGPUR: Almost 16 years after central government’s order, the state’s animal husbandry department has proposed to set-up   (SPCA) in every district of the state.

 In its reply to the petition filed by animal welfare activist Ankita Shah before the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court, the state government stated that the proposal has been cleared by the law and judiciary department and is now submitted to chief minister   for approval. 
 
 After the chief minister’s approval, the state will issue a notification establishing SPCA in every district.
 
 Shah had demanded compensation for victims of dog-bites, resumption of Animal Birth Control (ABC) programme in the city and its continuation till the dog populations is under control. 
 
 Making   (NMC),   (MPCB),   (AWBI), department of animal husbandry, district society for prevention of cruelty to animals (SPCA) the main respondents, Shah also pointed out that a local NGO named ‘Nagpur SPCA’ run by Dr Kailash Marwah received grants from AWBI but it was not utilizing animal shelter and an ambulance for animal welfare. 
 
 Through her PIL, Shah has demanded reconstitution of the district (SPCA) as per the central government’s rules. 
 
 In 2001, the union government had directed all states to establish SPCA in each district within six months from the date of commencement of rules. The society's main intention is to prevent cruelty to animals and execute welfare schemes of Animal Welfare Board of India (AWBI).
 
 TOI has been repeatedly reporting how the same is not being done in Nagpur district till date. 
 
 This first came to the fore in 2015 when Shah filed a RTI query, seeking to know if SPCA was formed in the district along with names of managing committee members, its animal shelters, infirmaries, annual accounts and reports. 
 
 The state animal husbandry department had forwarded the query to district deputy commissioner of the department who stated that no information was available regarding SPCA.
 
 Shah, who personally pleaded before the court, has also demanded disciplinary action against erring officers of local authorities and imposing exemplary cost on all respondents for dereliction of duties and violation of laws.
 
  The petitioner has also highlighted the conditions of NMC's temporary shelter at Bhandewadi and prayed for restraining the local body from using the shelter for all kind of activities. 
 
