While the political campaigning has reached its peak now, some political parties have roped in celebrities to up their visibility and add in some glamour. Yet, we still have local celebs that are using their glamour to bring about a social awareness among the general public. Through the efforts of several city NGOs, well-known Marathi stars are asking Nashikites not to forget the relationship they share with the   river and to only vote for candidates who are committed to the cause of cleaning the river. Among these are  ,  , Tanvi Palav, Mitali Mayekar and Purnima Talwalkar, who have posted videos on their social media pages with the slogan ‘Jo karil Godvarichi seva tyalach dya matancha mewa’ (Vote for those who are committed to serving the Godavari river). 

 TV actor Chinmay Udgirkar is of the opinion that celebrities should use their celebrity status to get people to be involved in good social initiatives. “Water pollution is an eminent problem across the country, especially the rivers. Hence, when the political parties started their campaigns for the upcoming elections, we decided to start our own campaign,” informs Chinmay. 
 
 He says that the campaign is aimed at making Nashikites aware about problems of the river. “We thought if we miss this opportunity, then we would have to wait for next five yearsfor something like this to come our way. Waiting for that long time would only worsen the condition of the river. Thankfully, we received a good response from city-based artistes, theatre groups etc, who have started uploading their videos appealing to fellow Nashikites.” Chinmay adds that when the political aspirants realised how people are supporting their campaign, new videos emerged. “They started posting their own videos assuring everyone that they will take positive steps to curb the pollution that mars the river Godavari. Political parties have put Godavari in their party’s manifestos. Now we have video proofs of what these political leaders have promised us. Now they have to deliver,” he adds.
 
 Chinmay’s co-star from the television series Nanda Saukhya Bhare, Rutuja Bagwe, isn’t a Nashikite. But she too decided to join the cause after hearing about it from Chinmay. “I recorded my own awareness campaign video and posted it online. Not only that I was so impressed by what Chinmay and his friends were doing I asked some of my friends to join the bandwagon,” informs Rutuja.
  
 
 
