ALWAR: Even as  , the   from Ramgarh, claimed that the alleged cow 'smuggler' had died of heart attack or brain haemorrhage, the Alwar police said the post-mortem report showed otherwise. 

 Quoting the report, the police stated that 50-year-old   had sustained grave injuries on his chest and lower abdomen which resulted in his death.
 
 On Wednesday, Ahuja, who is known for his controversial remarks, had said that Pehlu had suffered a heart attack or brain haemorrhage out of fear.
 
 TOI received a copy of the post-mortem report on Thursday, which stated the cause of death as internal injuries on his chest and lower abdomen.
 
 Confirming the cause of death, Dr Pushpendra Jain, one of the medical jurists who was part of 4-member post mortem team, said, "The ribs of the deceased were badly broken and there were internal injuries on lungs. Clots were also found near heart." 
 
 "Prima facie it appears that Pehlu Khan had died from internal injuries and heavy bleeding. The medical team has also asked for a viscera analysis before filing the final report," said superintendent of police Rahul Prakash, Alwar.
  
  
 All the three accused, who were arrested for allegedly thrashing the victim and 14 others on Saturday for suspected smuggling of bovines, were produced before an Alwar court.
 
 "The court has remanded them to one-day police custody. We will gather circumstantial evidence and interrogate them about those who fled the scene after the crime," he added.
 
 Separate police teams are on the lookout for 'cow protectors' who had thrashed the accused and others on Saturday.
 
 On allegations that the police were negligent in handling the matter, the SP said, "Our team reached the spot after the incident began. We had to use force to disperse the mob. Our first priority then was to take the injured to the hospital. We also didn't have proof that the accused were associated with any Hindu organisation. One of the accused who has been arrested, Vipin, is the president of the government college in Behror," he said.
 
 Meanwhile, Alwar district's Meo panchayat has submitted a memorandum to the police demanding speedy justice for the family of the deceased. They have also demanded the state government to pay ex-gratia to the family of the victim as well as medical expenses of others who were thrashed by cow vigilantes.
 
 The incident has triggered a war of words between various political parties. "The cow vigilantes have done a good job but they should not have taken law into their own hands," Ahuja said. 
 
 A Congress party delegation also met the SP and urged him to arrest the others accused in the case.
 
