Nagpur: The state education department’s decision to scrap “general mathematics” for Class IX and X has been given thumbs up by most experts, but not before they pointed out that this project was doomed to fail.

 Purshottam Panchbhai, former president of Nagpur district Math Teacher Association, said, “This is what happens when bureaucrats take decision without consulting subject experts. They invite us only to officially endorse their decisions.” The subject was introduced in 2008.
 
 Panchbhai said talk about an easier version of math had been around since 2005. “When Vasant Purke was education minister, he talked about making it optional but it was introduced three years later as general math. This was supposed to help students pass. But having such an option is flawed because rather than increasing competency of students, you are lowering evaluation standards,” he said.
 
 Even exam results did not reflect any benefits. Percentage-wise, more students of Class X failed in general math as compared to regular math.
 
 Panchbhai said, “Very few students opted for it and even those who did continued performing poorly. Problem was that the fundamentals of these students were very weak. So, it did not matter what level of math they studied. Right from day one, we opposed this move but the government thought it knew better.”
 
 Other academicians, who did not wish to be named, agreed that the general math never got the response which the board had expected. In 2016, only 1 lakh students appeared for it in the exam as compared to over 16 lakh students, who appeared for regular math.
 
 The success ratio for general math was at 80% while for regular math it was 88%. A school principal said, “Math is a concept-based subject and it has to be drilled into a student’s mind at a very early age. Once a student reaches Class VIII, then there is very little chance of playing catch-up. General math was easy for those who understood the concept, but for others it made no difference.”
 
 
