THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The urgency shown in clearing the encroachments in the   stretch by the panchayat officials has received setback, with around seven traders, who lost property in the drive, filing cases for  .

 The Vilappil and Vilavoorkal panchayats had initiated the  , following the death of two women in two separate accidents within a week at Peyad Junction in the first week of February.
 
 The lack of clarity with regard to encroachments in the area has now become a bane to the panchayat authorities. The drive had begun with clearing of encroachments within 2-metres distance from the road, but later it was increased to 3 metres, which the panchayat officials said will benefit the road widening procedure.
 
 Interestingly, both the panchayats had convened meetings to clear the traffic bottleneck in the area last year, but no further action was taken.
 
 Vilappil panchayat president L Vijayraj said, “We had already sent notices to traders last year with regard to the encroachment but their responses were in the negative. But, following the two accidents in the area, we decided to clear all encroachments at the earliest”.
 
 Some of the traders had protested the demolition of their shops claiming that they have documents of ownership of the property. “I had requested them not to demolish my shop, since I had the ownership documents. It was my only source of income, and now I have filed a case seeking apt compensation. We have not received any notice as claimed by the panchayat official,” said  , a bakery shop owner.
 
 MLA I B Satheesh, during his visit in the area, had assured compensation to the people who lost their property in the drive as per market value of the land. “Some people have lost their property in the drive and we will settle the matter by providing compensation,” said Vilappil panchayat president Vijayraj.
 
 Now, the panchayat authorities will have to initiate a proper audit on the encroachments and decide on the compensation to be given for the buildings demolished during the drive. 
 
 
