PUNE: Union minister for HRD   said here on Saturday that a bill to stop compulsory promotion and conduct   for students of classes V and VIII will soon be presented in the cabinet.

 The bill will be brought in to amend the Right To Education Act so that states can decide whether to hold exams for students in classes V and VIII as a means to promote them or not. But states deciding to hold exams will have to give an opportunity to students, who fail such exams, to appear for re-exams in June.
 
 At a regional workshop for education officials in Pune, Javadekar said, “A   (CABE) meeting had taken place recently where education ministers of all states were present. The education ministers of 25 states demanded that there should be a change in the policy to promote all students till Class VIII. They wanted detention in classes V and VIII. Only four states said that they wanted no detention of students.”
 
 Taking a çue from the Maharashtra government, which introduced re-exam for students who failed in classes X and XII board exams within three months to ensure that they do not lose out on a year, the minister said students failing in Class V and VII will be given an opportunity to appear for re-exams. “We will amend the Act to allow states to detain students in Class V and or Class VIII as per their choice. But there will be a rider that those detained should be allowed to appear for a repeat exam within three months. The bill is being circulated and, within a month, all departments will give their suggestions and then we will introduce it in the monsoon session of Parliament,” said Javadekar.
 
 Nand Kumar, secretary of education, Maharashtra, said, "State government officials after discussion with experts had decided to continue with the no detention policy. Then in the CABE committee meeting, HRD Minister Prakash Javdekar said that states will be given authority to decide on whether to hold exams or not. Now Kumthe Beat model of education in   district is renowned for 100 % learning in students and it has been following no detention policy since 2004. So, failing a student is not the only way. For past two years we have been running a   programme to improve the levels of learning and by the time this bill passes, another year will go by. Hence, we will take a decision after the bill is passed."
 
