PATNA: After an encounter with   at   in   area, police on Tuesday night recovered the firearms looted from three police personnel in   and   districts last year. One Rajnish Kumar was arrested with a police revolver and Rs1 lakh of the Rs60 lakh looted in front of Bagha Tila branch of Punjab National Bank under Belchhi police station area in Patna district on March 6. Two private security guards and the cash van driver were killed during the loot. 

 The two other criminals managed to escape. The encounter took place when the criminals were planning to attack a police patrolling party in Barh area.
 
 Patna SSP Manu Maharaaj said on Wednesday police on Tuesday detained a suspect who had reached Beur jail to meet Lalan Singh and his brother Manish Kumar, sons of one Shivshankar Singh. “He told the police that his associates had been asked to kill some policemen in Barh the same night to take revenge of their arrest,” the SSP said, adding that police laid a trap to nab the criminals.
 
 The SSP said Shivshankar’s fourth son Rajesh Kumar and his associate Deepak Kumar managed to escape from Dahaur. But they threw the two looted pistols while fleeing. More than six rounds were fired from both sides during the chase, he said.
 
 Lalan, Manish, their father Shivshankar and one Mukesh Kumar were arrested on March 29. Rajnish is also the son of Shivshankar. They belong to Anand Golwa under Mohaddipur police station area in Samastipur district. Police had already recovered Rs45 lakh of the looted money from Belcchi on March 29.
 
 On March 16 last year, retired ASI Bhuvaneshwar Prasad Singh was shot at near village Madanpur under Bind police station area in Nalanda district and criminals had looted his regular pistol. Later on April 18, SI Suresh Thakur was shot dead near Gorakshini under Barh police station area while ASI Ramraj Chaudhary was shot dead on a road overbridge under Fatuha police station area on September 25, 2016. The criminals had also looted their pistols. 
 
 “The pistol looted from Bind was used in Thakur’s murder. The revolver looted from Thakur was used in Ramraj’s killing while all the three police firearms were used in the Sohsarai cash loot attempt in Nalanda district and Belchhi incident in Patna district,” the SSP said.
 
 Two persons, including a private guard, were shot dead at Sohsarai on February 27. The SSP also said police recovered a diary in which details of Rs14 lakh investment of are mentioned.
 
 
