NEW DELHI: For a year, several   colleges have been trying to improve their infrastructure. This was also necessitated by need for repairs, especially in the case of Daulat Ram College where classroom roofs were coming apart. As the fresh batches start joining this year, many colleges hope they would be able to provide some much-needed facilities for all-round education.Deen Dayal Upadhyay College has moved into a sprawling campus spread over 11.5 acres this year, putting on offer facilities and space like never before. Come this admission season, brand new classes and freshly painted buildings are all set to welcome the newest batch of applicants.

 The principal, S K Garg, said it had only been eight months since they moved to the new campus and a lot of work was still under progress. “But now, with more space, we have new hostel blocks and accommodation for the faculty . Our campus is eco-friendly ­ it has an in-house sewage treatment plant and a rainwater harvesting system, and we are planning to set up a composting plant. Our solar panels are being installed,“ he said. The new building gives the faculty its own lab to conduct research, for which Rs 3 crore has been allotted. One of the most striking parts on the campus is the library . “It is spread over three floors, 10,000 square feet each, complete with an e-resource centre,“ said Garg. The e-resource centre will give access to a range of online journals, including the best like the Oxford and   publications.
 
 Last year, the dilapidated condition of the decade-old Daulat Ram College building led to a number of roof collapses, which pushed the administration to finally earmark funds for renovation.At present, a part of the college is out of bounds for students because of the construction work, but most parts of the building are ready with smart classes and hi-tech science labs. Principal   said the work was carried out in phases so that the college kept running.“We managed to create a lot more space and rooms on the campus because of this construction work, which can now accommodate more students and activity centres,“ she told TOI.
 
 The old canteen has been converted into an auditorium, while the canteen has been moved outdoors. Along with that, classrooms have been revamped with new desks and chairs, tiled floor, stronger roof and smart boards with projectors.
 
 Similarly , Hansraj College too has upgraded its facilities, and added a yoga room and a gym to the campus. “We have also renovated our auditorium and constructed another seminar hall.CCTVs are also being installed,“ said Rama Sharma, principal of the college. The campus will also house a creche for the kids of employees. However, Sharma said the college is falling short of funds. “Till now we had been using   funds for renovation costs, but we are slowly going low on funds. I have made several requests to all stakeholders for generation of funds,“ she said.
 
 Ram Lal Anand college too has expanded its library and added an elevator to the college for disabled students.Atma Ram Sanatan Dharma College has added two seminar halls, a conference room and a new floor with 14 classrooms -each can accomodate 50.“Several other academic and sports facilities have been added,“ said Gyantosh Jha, principal of ARSD.
 
