By-
 

 PUNE: A parent’s reaction to their child ignoring academics for extracurricular activities may often be critical, but a shocking development in the city has seen this tussle go to an unheard-of level. On Monday, a depressed mother tried to kill her son, a national-level swimmer, by hitting him with a heavy stone, and then tried to commit suicide thereafter. The 12-yearold victim is a prolific sportsperson, having even represented India in the World Biathle Championship, 2015, held at Batumi, Georgia.
 
 The incident took place at their family residence in Guruwar Peth around 8.30 am on May 1, when the mother and son were alone at home. Both have been admitted to the King Edward Memorial (KEM) Hospital, and the boy’s medical condition was critical at the time of this newspaper going to print.
 
 The boy’s father has since filed a complaint against his wife at Khadak police station. His statement claims she had been depressed for the last couple of months and ended up attacking their son for neglecting his studies. The boy, a student of Maharashtra Mandal School on Tilak Road, is now struggling for his life in the intensive care unit (ICU) of KEM Hospital.
 
 Dr Sarang Rote of KEM Hospital informed, “The boy’s condition is critical. We have kept him under observation in the ICU. He will take a long time to progress in this condition, and we found serious injuries in the head besides facial bone fractures. We hope there are no further complications, as we would then be required to perform brain surgery.”
 
 The child’s shaken uncle,  , shared, “He has won many swimming competitions and is a well mannered boy. We are praying that he recovers soon.”
 
 According to  , the Indian team head coach who had trained the boy, he has always been disciplined. Khasnis told Mirror, “He is a brilliant student and a quick learner. Even his family has always been very supportive of him, and he has won several prizes at a spate of competitions held in all parts of the country over the last three years. I was extremely proud when he performed at the international World Biathle Championship. However, he had stopped coming to practice since last October, for reasons unknown. I had tried to contact his family to convince them that he had a great future ahead of him in sport, but no one responded to my messages. Eventually, I stopped contacting his father.”
 
 A neighbour of the family, speaking to Mirror on condition of anonymity, supplied, “The family is well-to-do. The mother is an educated woman, and we have always found the boy to be a good son and disciplined child, never indulging in unnecessary mischief. He was always very athletic, but it seems that this love of sport has led to these tragic circumstances.”
 
 Police sub-inspector of Khadak police station, V D Kesarkar, said, “While the mother is out of danger, the boy’s condition remains tenuous. We have booked the woman under sections 307 (attempt to commit suicide) and 309 (attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).
 
