NAGPUR:   has set up a quality control laboratory in its own premises, to ensure that its contractors use the right kind of materials. The agency will also get revenue from this laboratory, which will be available for use by other corporates too. Mahametro has signed an agreement with international quality control agency Bureau Veritas (BV) for this purpose.

 A source in Mahametro said that as per the norms contractors had to get their materials tested before using them for construction. “The contractor has to spend a lot of money for setting up the laboratory. We now offer them this service. The contractor also has to get third party testing of materials done, which the BV laboratory can now do,” he added. There is, however, no compulsion on Mahametro contractors to get the primary testing done in the BV laboratory.
 
 The BV laboratory can also test materials used by contractors of other agencies, like National Highways Authority of India (NHAI),   (NMC), public works department (PWD) etc. “In such cases, we will get 5% of the testing charges as the laboratory is on our premises. We will thus start earning even before the Metro is operational,” said the source. He, however, added that so far no third party testing had been done.
 
 Many other   agencies also get their materials tested by Bureau Veritas but since they have no share in the laboratory, they do not get revenue from third-party testing. 
 
 The services offered by   laboratory include material testing, geo-technical and soil investigation, non-destructive testing of civil and steel structures, design review, risk assessment and commissioning assistance.
 
 The memorandum of understanding between BV and Mahametro was signed in July 2016. Later, an agreement was signed between the two parties in February 2017. The laboratory was recently inaugurated by Mahametro managing director Brijesh Dixit.
 
 Bureau Veritas, a French company, is the global leader in the field of testing, inspection and certification. It has branches all over the globe. It was founded in 1928 but its India operation started in 1971. Today, it has eight testing laboratories in the country and employs about 5,000 people. The Nagpur laboratory is its ninth in India.
 
 
