When writer Aswath Venkataraman travelled to Sri Lanka six months after the civil war ended, it was the first time in nearly a decade that tourists were coming to Trincomalee. “We spotted a few anti-LTTE posters but other than that the area was very peaceful. You wouldn’t have thought it was a war zone earlier,” says Venkataraman.

 When it comes to taking the road less travelled, Venkataraman has been to Dachau, Germany, the site of a Nazi concentration camp. But he says one of his most memorable visits was to the Haydarpasa cemetery in Istanbul, Turkey, where soldiers from India and other Commonwealth nations were buried during World War II. “My wife’s father was in the Indian Army. So she was keener to visit. We even noted some of the soldiers’ names to try to get in touch with their descendants,” says Venkataraman. Also, the cemetery overlooked the sea and the view was beautiful.
 
 “We had the whole place to ourselves,” he adds. One of the benefits of treading the off-the-beaten path is the complete solitude one is assured of. Travel aggregator Booking.com says the top dark   destinations in 2016-17 for Indian globetrotters were the Holocaust Museum and Anne Frank House in Amsterdam, and the Dachau and Auschwitz (Poland) concentration camps. Other places on their itinerary are Pearl Harbour in Hawaii and Hiroshima war memorial in Japan.
 
 Travel companies say Indians do not travel specifically for dark tourism — but it’s an added attraction, especially in countries such as Poland and Germany. “Dark tourism has been one of the reasons for a 10% year-on-year growth in Indian travellers to offbeat European destinations,” says Balu Ramachandran, head of air and distribution, ClearTrip.
 
 Clearly, what seems gory to one assumes historical significance to others. “Though a niche segment, dark tourism appeals strongly to India’s evolved traveller with increasing demand for destinations like Poland, primarily to visit Auschwitz and Hitler’s headquarters in Gierloz — the Wolf ’s Lair,” says Rajeev Kale, president and country head, Leisure Travel and MICE,   India. Also popular are battlefield tours in Poland that cover Modlin Castle and Miedzyrzecz Fortified Region, and WWII-related tours in Berlin, he adds.   are also giving business to tour operators like Ajit De Soyza of Ceymondu Travels in Sri Lanka. Among Sri Lanka’s top dark tourist attractions is a huge shipwreck, Farah III, a Jordanian vessel hijacked by the Tamil Tigers and beached on the northeastern coast to be stripped for scrap metal.
 
 Mullaitivu is also a draw as weapons and machinery used by the LTTE, including mini submarines, are displayed here. Further inland, tourists can reach Pudukuduirippu, which has many war ruins — including the LTTE swimming pool that was used to train foot soldiers.
 
 On the domestic circuit, the sites of Mumbai’s bomb blasts are of great interest, according to guides. Khaleel Ahmed of Atlas Travels says, “Whenever tourists visit Gateway of India or Victoria Terminus, they also want to visit the sites of the blasts. There are guides who will recreate the scene — take you to the Taj Hotel and the footbridge near the iconic Times of India building opposite Victoria Terminus. They’ll show you where the bullets and shrapnel were once buried in walls and had to be gouged out.”
 
 In the south, it is forest brigand Veerappan’s place of burial in Moolakadu near Mettur that attracts the odd traveller or two. It would be hard to find the place if it weren’t for a wooden board with this Tamil inscription: ‘Here Veeram (bravery) is buried.’
 
 “Every year in October — on his death anniversary — his relatives and members from certain Tamil nationalist groups visit the spot though interest has started to wane,” says Salem district SP P Rajan.
 
 Students are the main target audience for dark tours as they often want to visit places that figure in their history textbooks such as Jallianwala Bagh in Punjab, Kaala Pani Jail in Andamans, and the Kohima War Cemetery in Nagaland.
 
 
