NAGPUR: After TOI expose of plantation fiasco at   in the last two days, the forest department has imposed restrictions on entry of   in the area.

 Nagpur deputy conservator of forest (DyCF) G Mallikarjuna told TOI that no restrictions have been imposed on bird watchers.
 
 However, on Friday, when a group of bird watchers led by Aniruddha Bhagat went to Ambazari catchment at 4.45pm for bird watching, the lady forest guard told them that bird watchers will be allowed between 6am to 10am only.
 
 The move comes after bird watchers exposed 2 crore plantation mess by the forest department. Of the 13,000 saplings planted on July 1, last year, only a few are standing while rest have died. Besides, use of   machines in the forest area has also been opposed by the birders.
 
 “The forest department move seems to have been taken to get rid of illegal activities and trespassing being exposed by us,” said Bhagat.
 
 Another birder   says, “This is autocratic. At a time when forest conservation has to be done with community participation, the department wants to keep us at bay.”
 
 “Bird watchers have a key role to play in the area as they document bird activities, report new species, threats, habitat loss and corrective measures there on,” said Pushkar Kulkarni, another bird watcher.
 
 “The forest department decision is unfortunate. To hide their faults, they cannot punish serious nature lovers and birders. Instead of restricting us, they should control issues like grazing, trespassing and forest fires in the area,” said nature lover  .
 
 “There have been several bird watchers who have been visiting the area for over two decades and such restriction is unwarranted,” Gabhane said. 
 
 “This is a season when many summer migratory birds come in catchment. Entry restriction will make difficult to do documentation of birds,” said Bhagat.
 
 The restriction on entry will have no meaning as there are many breaches. Over a 1,000 metre area is open from   road side from where cattle enter into the forest, Besides, there are breaches from   road side from where people can get access to the area.
 
 
