KOLKATA: Traffic chaos at the showpiece   eased on Tuesday as work for the construction of the   has been shifted to nights.

 The road at New Town, at the Narkelbagan junction, was opened to traffic at 7 am on Tuesday. Debashis Sen, chairman-cum-managing director,  , said, “We have shifted the work from daytime to nights, considering the traffic congestion in the area.”
 
 Starting this evening, work for the Kolkata Gate construction will be on from 11 to 4 am. The work has come in the way of traffic movement on New Town, since this is the most preferred artery for those commuting to and from the airport.
 
 There have been prolonged traffic snarls on the major arterial road in New Town after the Rabindra Tirtha and the flanks meeting at this point were closed on Monday. Vehicles were stopped from plying at this point to erect the much-hyped Kolkata Gate. The towering gateway coming up at the intersection would have needed the area to be freed of traffic for a month at least.
 
 Now that the construction activity has been restricted to five hours in the late evening, the construction might take at least three months, officials said.
 
 “We realized that construction of the 55m structure is a complex one, and would require the road to be free of traffic. But then, since the route became out-of-bound for vehicles, the area was going through huge congestion, inconveniencing airport-bound travelers,” an official said, adding, “Therefore, the change in construction time.”
 
 Now that the road has opened to traffic, the diversions will not apply. A section of the arterial road covering a radius around 1km from the Rabindra Tirtha crossing was cordoned off from all sides on Monday. Those bound from the Unitech crossing from   and Sector V had to circumvent to take a lane near the Senior Citizen’s Park. They would then come to Street No. 165 which leads to BF block. Commuters had to drive down for 50m before turning right towards BF block, to take the road parallel to the main artery of New Town until they reached Hidco Bhavan.
 
 Arunanghshu Sen, an IT worker who commutes to New Town from Behala every day, said, “It was a relief to be allowed to take the main road from today.”
 
 Ipshita Adhikary, who works at Tata Medical Centre, said, “It was extremely troublesome for those headed for Salt Lake from the airport. They had to take a U-turn near our hospital and drive to Mozoram House before driving through the connecting narrow alleys to reach the main artery near Novotel.”
 
 
