CHANDIGARH: Even though Punjab’s cities are marked by  , a challenge for the understaffed police, by next year those   will not have any chance to convince the   on duty to let them off. This because the   in the state is set to bring all key  

 Traffic ADGP M K Tewari told TOI that as per the plan, 400 points will be covered with 1,600 CCTV cameras to begin with. “These will be of high quality with net connectivity. This will enable the traffic police to use the data base of vehicles and send a challan by post after capturing the vehicle on camera for violating traffic rules,” he said. The ADGP further gave an assurance that it would not be a symbolic exercise and the challan would be followed up and violators made to pay the penalty. “The advantage is that the new system will remove human interface and this will ensure that challaning becomes a foolproof system,” he said. 
 
 Sources said the project will cost Rs 30 crore and the traffic police hopes to utilize 50 per cent of the funds collected through traffic challans to fund it. Most of the cameras will have the option to pan, tilt and zoom, providing a live feed to the main police control room. A screen grab of a violation will be culled from this footage as photographic evidence. The owner of the violating vehicles will be sent a challan under section 133 of the Motor Vehicle Act, 1988. If he fails to pay the challan amount on time, then it will be forwarded to the court concerned, which then issues summons to the accused, as per law.
 
 Another police official said apart from easing the pressure on the police personnel, the e-challan will bring about an element of transparency with lesser cases of corruption or levying of excess fines. The system has been recently introduced in cities like Pune, where a traffic offender will not only receive an SMS detailing his violation, but also photo evidence of the same with a link directing him to the nearest police station, where the penalty can be paid. In Mumbai, the SMS also mentions a link, clicking on which will direct the motorist to the traffic police website, where the fine can be paid using debit and credit cards.
 
 As per the plan, the traffic police plans to put up cameras at every 3 km to check traffic violations. Presently, the force is short of basic equipment to check traffic violations and this is hampering traffic management in most cities.
 
 
