Thane: As videos of the chaos at the Parel-Ephinstone Road stations FOB went viral, a real-time evaluation of invisible threats at Thane railway   area by regulars revealed that basic safety measures, such as adequate entry and exit points, are in place.

 With a daily footfall of 2.5 lakhs, the 164-year-old station is one of the busiest junctions on Central Railway. But the one-of-its-kind station area traffic improvement scheme (SATIS), which segregates commuter flow, and east and west skywalks connected to ROBs that lead outside the station area and broad east-west link have ensured effective crowd management.
 
 “While Thane station can get crowded at peak hours, it is not as bad as many Mumbai stations. Commuters can use any of the three FOBs, if not the fourth bridge that connects east and west. I travel from Kopar Khairane and switch trains at Thane to reach office at Lower Parel. Thane station is not very congested keeping in mind the high density of people using it daily,” said Anusha Iyengar (25).
 
 Guardian minister Eknath Shinde said though SATIS and wide ROBs have helped manage crowds, they will prove inadequate in the coming years given the population explosion in and around Thane. “It is a British era railway station when Thane’s population was negligible. It has transformed into a mega city and railway infrastructure cannot tackle the rush. Our demand for building an extended railway station on a vacant plot near Thane mental hospital is lying in the cold storage for years. Unless the extended station is approved, a disaster could be waiting to happen there too,’’ he said.
 
 CR officials said adequate safety measures are in place and a third spacious foot overbridge to connect platform 10 in the east with platform 2 in the west has been set up.
 
 Old-timers recall the harrowing experience of getting in and out of the station about a decade ago, when illegal vendors occupied the precincts, and claim multiple exit/entry points ease commuter flow.
 
 Sandeep Kharkar (38), a Charai resident, said, “A TMT bus takes me to the the upper deck of SATIS, from where I take the middle FOB to platform 6 to catch my train to CSMT. Sometimes, I take an auto from below SATIS. Despite criticism, SATIS helps keep a check on vehicular traffic by separating the bus crowd from auto and private vehicle users.”
 
 While commuters assert facilities are more than sufficient, they add that hawkers and parking issues add to traffic, and if not addressed, could create panic and lead to a stampede. “Illegal hawkers add to congestion. During peak hours or as commuters pile into the station when there are delays, the situation could worsen,” said Sashikumar Nair, a citizen activist.
 
 “Another issue that leads to congestion in and around the station is illegal vehicle parking outside. The civic chief had taken action against encroachments and illegal parking a few months back but the situation is bad again. If clubbed with the hawker, together with rain or any other panic situation during peak hours, the station could witness a stampede too. The only way to prevent this is to ban hawkers and parking, increase train frequency and efective crowd management by GRP and RPF,” added Nandkumar Deshmukh, president of the Federation of Railway Passengers’ Association.
 
