NEW DELHI: The   and the   ( ) are likely to decide by the end of this month if   will be allowed to be registered even after April 1. 

 With the date of countrywide implementation of BS-IV norms nearing,   has moved the apex court praying that manufacture, sale and even registration of non-BS-IV vehicles be stopped from April 1. The company has said it will be at a “substantial price disadvantage” if the sale and registration of non-BS-IV vehicles are allowed after April 1 as Bajaj has already made investments to meet the BS-IV deadline.
 
 Bajaj Auto filed the intervention application in the Supreme Court recently in the MC Mehta case against air pollution in the capital. There is another appeal in NGT on the same issue, which has been filed by Dr R K Sharma, a retired government hopsital employee. 
 
 In October 2016, the SC-mandated Environment Pollution Control Authority (EPCA) directed vehicle manufacturers that no non-BS-IV vehicle could be registered after April 1. Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers (SIAM), however, has said other vehicle manufacturers have a large pending inventory of BS-III vehicles that can’t be sold off before the current deadline. 
 
 The company has appealed that the Supreme Court “pass an order permitting Bajaj Auto to intervene in the matter and direct that notification dated July 4, 2014 and notification dated 12 June, 2015 (on implementation of BS-IV) are implemented in their true letter and spirit” across the country. It also stated that “there is bound to be a substantial cost difference between a more polluting BS-III vehicle and a less polluting BS-IV vehicle. Some vehicle manufacturers are producing BS-III models till today and intend to continue until March 31, 2017 and dump these polluting vehicles after April 1, 2017”. Any extension of deadline will, in effect, penalise the compliant manufactures while rewarding other manufacturers “for being in breach of the law”, it added.
 
 Meanwhile, Union Ministry of Road Transport (MoRTH) is likely to clarify to EPCA whether only manufacture of non-BS-IV vehicles will stop from April 1 or their registration will stop too. SC will take up the issue on March 20 while NGT will hear CPCB, SIAM and Centre again on the same issue on March 23. 
 
 Experts said there were many examples of companies that have complied with emission norms in advance like Hyundai in case of BS-III. Toyota Kirloskar Motor has announced that it may roll out BS-VI in advance of the 2020 deadline. 
 
 BS-IV standards have prescribed a separate oxides of nitrogen (NOx) cap limit for vehicles that was absent in BS-III standards for two-wheelers. 
 
 CSE researchers said there could be an 80% reduction in particulate matter emissions from commercial vehicles after the BS-IV switch.
 
 
