NEW DELHI: It is often said that no war can be won on an empty stomach. But a   jawan, deployed along the Indo-Pakistan border in Jammu & Kashmir has alleged just that — troops at the frontier are served poor quality food and even have to go hungry at times, prompting the border guarding force to initiate an inquiry.

 The allegations have been made in a series of videos uploaded on social-media platforms by the jawan. The jawan, is seen wearing a camouflage uniform and carrying a rifle, claimed that while government procures essential supplies for them, the seniors and officers “sell it off illegally” in the market.
 
 Home minister   has reacted to the allegations and sought a report from the BSF. “Have seen a video regarding a BSF jawan’s plight. I have asked the HS to immediately seek a report from the BSF and take appropriate action,” Singh tweeted.
 
 In at least three different videos clocking over 4 minutes released online, constable T B Yadav (40) of BSF’s 29th battalion also goes on to show the food that is allegedly being served to him.
 
 “We only get a parantha and tea as breakfast and this is without any pickle or vegetables... we slog for 11 hours and at times we have to stand throughout the duty hours.
 
 For lunch, we get dal (pulses) which only has haldi (turmeric) and salt... with roti. This is the quality of the food we get... how can a jawan do his duty? I request the Prime Minister to get this probed... no one shows our plight,” Yadav alleged.
 
 He said he “may not be here”, hinting at action that might be taken against him and urged people to take the issue forward so that corrective action is taken.
 
 He further alleged that at times jawans have to go to sleep “empty stomach”. The   took cognizance of the video and tweeted from its official handle that an inquiry has been ordered.
 
 A senior BSF official said Yadav is currently deployed along the line of control in J&K and BSF jawans there work under the operational command of the  , which also provides for “food and other logistics of the jawans”.
 
