VIJAYAWADA: In a major success for chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu's efforts in  ,   AG has evinced interest in joining hands with   to build coaches for   and also study the feasibility of setting up a manufacturing unit in Vizag.

 Chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu met top executives of Stadler executive vice-president (marketing and sales) Peter Jenelten, business development analyst Stefan Rutishauser and project manager business development Thomas Zweifel during his brief tour of Zurich on Monday . The chief minister gave a detailed presentation on the advantages of setting shop in AP.
 
 During his presentation, Naidu said that two metros rail lines were being developed in AP and that plans for launching speed trains were also being prepared. “As per your requirement, we have a long coastline and good ports with no shortage of power, water, and other necessary infrastructure. In addition, we are centrally located with excellent road and rail connectivity ,“ the CM said and added that the state was recently ranked No. 1 in `ease of doing business'. The CM said AP had registered an impressive growth rate of 10.99 per cent last year and in the first half of this fiscal the growth rate was 12 per cent.
 
 After the CM's presentation, the vice-president of Stadler formally invited the CM and the delegation to visit their factory . Stadler executives elaborated on the infrastructural requirements. They said a location close to sea would help import and export operations. “We are mainly looking at land, logistics, tax structures and human resources as main criteria to set up the unit,“ Jenelten said.
 
 Stadler provides a comprehensive range of products in the commuter rail and railway segments, the vice-president said and disclosed that the company manufactures main-line dual-mode locomotives, shunting locomotives and passenger carriages, including the most powerful diesel-electric locomotive in Europe. Stadler is the world's leading manufacturer in rack and pinion rail vehicles.
 
 The firm specialises in producing coach bodies with aluminium. The company already has a unit at Kancharapara, West Bengal. Stadler is looking to start a unit in Vizag to manufacture spares with aluminium. The new unit is expected to create 3,000 jobs. Stadler has an annual turnover of US $ 2.2 billion with production sites in Poland, Germany , Hungary , Switzerland, Belarus and Spain. The company is planning to venture into the United States as well.
 
