NAGPUR: The   has opposed the   (CJM)   to release three dreaded   involved in   in the region.

 The three poachers — Mamru Patlepawar, Chika Patlepawar and Shiri Bisen — were arrested in 2013 for poaching and trading tiger skins. These poachers have already been convicted in another case in Melghat and are slated to face seven-year jail term under the Wildlife (Protection) Act 1972 considering present case.
 
 However, on February 3, CJM DP Ragit asked the forest department to make submissions on his view to release the three poachers under Section 436-A of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) as to why the accused should not be released on bail when they have already undergone half of the sentence.
 
 In its reply on Wednesday, the forest department submitted that Section 436-A of the CrPC doesn’t have blanket provisions that are unconditional in nature. Special counsel for forest department Kartik Shukul said Section 436A provides an alternative that permits detention of the accused beyond the period prescribed therein. 
 
 In the present case, he argued that the accused are nomads belonging to Pardhi community. They don’t have permanent resident addresses nor any immovable property. In addition, the accused are habitual offenders regularly engaged in wildlife crimes. They have been misleading the court and have not furnished their actual place of residence. They also presented fake papers about their age claiming to be juvenile and court has rejected their claim.
 
 “If released on bail, there is no possibility of securing their presence at the time of trial. This fact has also been highlighted by the Nagpur Bench of Bombay High Court while deciding applications of similar accused,” said Shukul.
 
 The court must therefore, preclude itself from exercising its powers under Section 436-A. He further argued that if at all there is any delay in the trial on account of the accused, then the period of delay ought to be deducted while computing the period as prescribed under Section 436-A.
 
 In the present case, the accused have delayed the trial for two years for one or the other reasons. These two years should be deducted while computing the period of imprisonment.
 
 In light of the aforesaid facts the prosecution argued that the court must not exercise its jurisdiction suo motu under Section 436-A of the CrPC to release the three accused. The court has reserved its order for February 20, 2017.
 
