HYDERABAD: A 30-year-old criminal Stuart Baronngaue, who jumped parole, is the alleged killer of Indian student   who was shot dead in Milpitas, California in the US on February 10.   was lodged in the Santa Clara County Jail on several charges, including murder, robbery , felony evasion, and his outstanding warrant, according to the Milpitas police department. Vamsi of Warangal had completed his MS in the US and was working parttime while on the look out for employment. He was shot dead in the Ilara Apartments parking garage in Milpitas.

 Explaining the sequence of events, Lt Raj Maharaj of Milpitas said that on Friday at approximately 10.45 pm (local time), Milpitas police officers responded to a report of a single car collision on South Main Street between   and South Abel Street. A man was seen get ting out of the car a black 2002   sedan, and running towards the Ilara Apartments.
 
 The man confronted a woman with a firearm and took the keys of the car parked in the parking structure.
 
 As officers arrived in the area, they heard an apparent gun shot and saw a car speed away from the apartment. Officers attempted to stop the car, but it fled and a short pursuit ensued. The car ultimately collided with another vehicle on South Abel Street at Serra Way and became disabled. Officers on scene were able to take the solo driver into custody. A search of the vehicle revealed a firearm located in the front passenger seat.
 
 “The driver was identified as Stuart Baronngaue, a 30-year-old Fremont resident, who was on parole and had an outstanding fe lony warrant for parole violation from the San Mateo County Sheriff 's Office,“ Lt Raj Maharaj said in a note. With the assistance of the   and Santa Clara County Sheriff 's Office, a search of the apartment complex was conducted.Officers discovered a male in the parking garage with an apparent gunshot wound. He was pronounced dead at the scene.
 
 “At this time we do not believe there are any additional involved suspects. This investigation is still active,“ he said.
 
