AHMEDABAD: With mercury rising in the city, the   (AFES) is responding to over 10 calls of fire on a daily basis. On Saturday, fire brigade teams responded to three major calls with an average of ten vehicles deployed to control the blaze.

  said they received a call from Hotel Moscow in Maninagar at 1.30 pm. The fire had started after a power cable for a window-mounted air-conditioner on third floor began to burn. The fire quickly spread and engulfed three nearby rooms. 
 
 Harshad Patel, a social worker from Amraiwadi, said that a family from Delhi had booked almost the entire hotel. “The family had come for wedding of their son to a city-based girl. The wedding is scheduled to take place on Sunday. There were 27 women and four children among 40 guests,” said Patel.
 
 “While most of the occupants managed to vacate their rooms, six persons were trapped on the top floor and were rescued by a snorkel employed by AFES officials,” he said.
 
 Nearby shops were also closed as part of precaution, as hotel guests were taken to underground parking. The blaze was controlled after a two-hour long operation, said AFES officials.
  
  
 
 At about 2 pm, a major fire was reported from Kathwada GIDC where a fertilizer plant was engulfed in flames and smoke. “The fire had started after malfunctioning of a machine in production unit which quickly spread to other parts of the factory and destroyed the chemicals and raw material,” said an AFES official. “Fire was contained after one and a half hour operation involving 15 vehicles,” said an official.
 
  
  
 At 5.30 pm,   on Sindhu Bhavan Road reported a major fire on second and third floors. The fire quickly spread to fourth floor as well.
 
 Rajesh Bhatt, additional chief fire officer, AFES, said that the fire is suspected to have been caused by short-circuit. “There was a warehouse of the ready-made garments. Clothes quickly caught the fire and it rapidly spread in the premises,” said Bhatt. “In total, AFES teams rescued 16 persons who were trapped on upper floors. We had to break the window glasses to provide vent for the smoke that reduced the visibility considerably,” he said.
 
 In the incident, a vehicle of AFES fell sideways due to which six firemen sustained head and body injuries. The firemen were taken to the VS Hospital for treatment, said officials.
 
 
