AURANGABAD:   have raised concerns over the proposed   ( ) drawing 67 million litre per day (mld) water from  .

 They claimed that the dam, barring this year, has been showing worrisome water levels in the recent past owing to deficient monsoons. The BIA will require 111 mld water, of which, 67 mld will be drawn from Jayakwadi dam, they said.
 
  feel that the water reservation for the proposed industrial area would further aggravate water crisis in Marathwada, especially in the areas towards the tail end of the total command area.
 
 DMIC managing director Gajanan Patil said only around 1% of total storage of Jayakwadi would be required for BIA and the reservation for the same was approved in 2014. “We have given major thrust on recycling waste water, considering the set of conditions under which the project is coming up,” he said, hinting to the recent history of drought in the region.
 
 As per official documents, about 44 mld water demand is for non-potable use and will be met through reuse of treated waste water. The DMIC authorities have proposed treatment of 30 mld sewage and 27 mld industrial effluent at the sewage treatment and common effluent treatment plants with a capacity of 36 mld and 28 mld, respectively. 
 
 The treated water will be reused for flushing and landscaping. Around 14 mld excess treated waste water will be discharged into developed water bodies for groundwater recharge, DMIC has proposed.
 
 Water management expert Pradeep Purandare said 1% water reservation for Jayakwadi has been done keeping in mind the designed capacity and not the actual annual water levels. “While the designed storage of Jayakwadi dam is around 76 thousand million cubic feet, the dam in recent past was filled in the range of 20 TMC to 25 TMC. Considering this, even 1% reservation is huge,” he said.
 
 Water activist Abhijit Dhanorkar from Parbhani felt the areas at the tail end of the command areas should not deprived of water at the cost of supply to industries. “During drought last year, scores of villages from Parbhani and Beed districts were thirsty. The government should not forget that water must be provided for drinking and agriculture on a priority basis, followed by industries,” he said.
 
 DMIC authorities, however, downplayed the apprehensions, saying that 100% recycling of water would be take place in BIA and it would minimise dependency on Jayakwadi dam. 
 
