NAGPUR: Shaurya, just 8-year-old, woke up to find bodies of his parents on fire in a closed room. He tried to pour water from a pot to douse the flames engulfing   (35) and Darshana (31) at their home besides Shivkrishna Dham near Wox Cooler on Koradi road just before midnight on Thursday. He was asleep in the room in which his dad had immolated himself and his mother too got burnt trying to save him.

 When he failed to douse the flames, he started shouting for help. A neighbour came over but couldn’t open the door as it was bolted from inside. Eventually, Shaurya climbed over a sewing machine and unlatched it to come out just as entire room got filled with fumes. 
 
 Neighbours informed the nearby Koradi police chowky. The cops summoned two fire tenders but they were not used as policemen and neighbours brought the fire under control before they could arrive. Cops brought out the charred bodies out of the house and sent them to   from postmortem. Koradi police have registered a case of accidental death.
 
 Relatives claimed, Sonu, a grocery shop owner and also a cattle breeder, had an argument with Darshana as their goat got killed on railway tracks passing behind their home on Thursday morning. Sonu blamed Darshana for being careless and the couple fought all day over the issue. By dinner time, Sonu got drunk and again fought with Darshana. In a fit of rage, he set himself ablaze by pouring kerosene on himself. Darshana ran to save him but was caught in flames herself. Sonu’s mother,  , had gone to relatives’ place a day ago.
 
 Shaurya, who lived up to his name, told TOI, “My father was upset on some issue the entire day. He returned home in the evening drunk and I soon fell asleep. I woke up due to intense heat and found my parents were burning. My mother tried to open the door but she fell on the floor in front of door. I started throwing water on them from a pot.” He added, “I stopped when the two stopped moving.”
 
 Cops have seized kerosene bottles from the spot. Cops said the couple used to fight often over trivial issues. 
 
