SURAT/BHARUCH: The Expert Appraisal Committee ( ) of the Ministry of Environment and Forest (MoEF) has recommended the Dahej Petroleum, Chemicals and Petrochemicals Investment Region (PCPIR), spread across 453 sq km area, for coastal regulatory zone (CRZ) and environment clearance.

 The project has been floated by the state-run Gujarat Industrial Development Corporation (GIDC). The EAC has set certain conditions for the   to fulfil against the CRZ and environment clearance (EC).
 
 With this clearance, all projects with building and construction area up to 1,50,000 sq m in the PCPIR shall require clearance from state or local bodies. Only projects with built-up areas of more than 1,50,000 sq m, will require separate environmental clearances from the regulatory authorities as prescribed by the MoEF. Sources said that with this condition in place, most projects will not require public hearing or clearance from MoEF. 
 
 The condition also includes clearance for diversion of 853.41 hectare of forest land for non-forestry purpose. Also, EAC has asked for time bound action plan for conservation of mangroves and mudflats in CRZ area. It has also sought detailed coastal scientific studies for Coastal Management Plan. 
 
 EAC further raised a concern for river ecology and asked GIDC to arrange for alternate water resources in view of huge water demand and for sustenance of fishery in coastal area without altering or tampering with the natural flow of river Narmada. 
 
 The expert committee made its recommendations to MoEF in a meeting held on April 6,7. 
 
 The PCPIR is spread across 44 villages of   and Bharuch taluka with land covering 45,000 hectare of which 23,000 hectare will be developed as processing area for medium and large-scale industries, engineering, port/ship building, salt pans, warehousing, oil terminals and logistics. The rest 22,000 hectare shall be developed as non-processing area like commercials complexes, residential units, institutions, green belt and eco zones. 
 
 
