BHOPAL: Senior BJP MP and former Union minister   on   has left the   and party embarrassed.   on his own government after Supreme Court cancelled admissions of 634 medical students who allegedly bribed or used unfair means to get the seat.

 Patel in a series of tweets against the state, raised the question that those who paid kickbacks in medical admissions were punished by the Apex Court but, those who connived with them were still scot-free. Justice will be done in the case if the mastermind and key plotters are punished, he said.
 
 “In Vyapam scam those who bribed the officials to get admissions in medical colleges, were punished by the Supreme Court and their admission were cancelled. What about those who instigated kickback payment and received them. When will they get punished, waiting for the day. Then only justice will prevail'', tweeted Patel on Thursday.
 
 He tweeted how come the government failed to protect the future generation from being ravaged by a handful people. He further said the SC verdict compels us for an introspection on chinks and failures on our administrative functioning.
 
 “Patel has very truly raised a genuine query against the state government's inaction towards the officials who received kickbacks in the Vyapam admissions scam and were let go. The initiative would compel the government to probe against corrupt officials now,” said a senior party functionary on condition of anonymity.
 
 Patel, a firebrand leader and supporter of senior leader Uma Bharti, had launched a tirade against chief minster Shivraj Singh Chouhan when he took over the reign of BJP after the ouster of former chief minister Uma Bharti from the party. Patel supported Uma in her fight against BJP and joined Lok Janshakti Party but later, he returned to the BJP fold.
 
 However, since last four years, Patel had been criticizing Shivraj Singh government on the issues of environment, illegal mining and corruption. In his tweets, he also clarified his stand saying, “I was asked for tweeting on Vyapam scam and I replied. I am very clear on the issue.”
 
 Meanwhile, Congress congratulated Patel on his tweet. Congress state chief spokesman K K Mishra said Patel’s statement shows his impeccable character at a time when a group of corrupt persons are busy in sycophancy for saving their posts.
 
 “Patel has always proved that he is a leader of the masses. The tweet of Patel, who had raised the Dumper scam in 2007, is being taken as an indirect attack on chief minister Chouhan'', he said.
 
 BJP seems to have distanced itself from Patel’s tweets. Party state spokesperson Deepak Vijayavargiya said that whatever Patel had said was his personal view.
 
