CHENNAI:   has taken the lead in consolidating the anti-AIADMK forces for the RK Nagar byelection scheduled for April 12. Party working president MK Stalin, who issued an open invitation to the three constituent parties of the PWF on Sunday, is set to announce its candidate on Tuesday.

 DMK wants to cobble up a grand alliance, bringing on board constituents of PWF, including VCK, CPI and CPM to take on the “proxy government” of V K Sasikala. The PWF allies, while thanking Stalin, decided to take a call on his invitation in a day or two. Sources said leaders of the three parties could not arrive at a consensus during their interactions on Monday and are likely to continue talks.
 
 The fact that VCK leader Thol Thirumavalavan, a one-time ally of DMK, shares a rapport with Stalin may come in handy for DMK. Meanwhile, CPM leader G Ramakrishnan created a flutter after he chose social media on Sunday to announce that the front would contest despite Stalin’s invite. When TOI contacted him, Ramakrishnan merely said, “We will take a decision soon.” 
 
 Having gained lost ground in   (the party won 10 out of 16 seats in the May 2016 assembly election), the DMK leadership is making all out efforts to grab the prestigious seat, which has eluded it for two decades. “DMK will register a massive victory in R K Nagar, no matter who is in the fray,” Stalin said after interviewing 17 aspirants, including  , the party candidate in the 2016 election.
 
 The DMK camp believes that the growing resentment against Sasikala over Jayalalithaa’s death and O Panneerselvam’s “silence” when he was in the hot seat would tilt the fortunes in its favour. “We are confident of winning the seat with the support of people, who are up against the ruling party,” DMK spokesperson T K S Elangovan said. The perceived anti-Sasikala polarization is expected to help DMK in R K Nagar.
 
 Alleging misuse of government machinery, DMK boycotted the 2015 bypoll in Jayalalithaa contested and won to resume charge of the government after the Karnataka high court acquitted her in the disproportionate assets case. The then cabinet and MLAs camped in the constituency for a fortnight to ensure an   victory with a margin of 1.5 lakh. In the company of Congress, MMK and IUML, DMK polled 56,673 votes in the subsequent May election, while Jayalalithaa polled 97,218 votes.
 
 
