SHIMLA: With assembly elections around the corner, construction of the Una-Hamirpur rail line has become a political issue. The Congress government has raised a question mark on the claim of BJP   MP, who said the Union ministry of railways approved construction of the 50 km line that will cost around Rs 2,815 crore. According to the government, the railways did not conduct a detailed survey of where the line would pass from.

 On February 4, Thakur issued a written statement claiming that Rs 400 crore has been sanctioned in the Union Budget for 2017-18 for the rail project in the state. Survey for the Una-Hamirpur rail line was completed last June and its construction was approved in the recent Union Budget, he said. 
 
 Anurag Thakur said Hamirpur parliamentary constituency would be the first in the state where all the three districts, Una, Hamirpur and  , would be connected through railway line.
 
 On Friday the Congress government issued a statement pointing out that the railways has only made a token provision of Rs one crore for the Una-Hamirpur line in the 2017-18 Union Budget. It said the Railways has not conducted a detailed survey on where the line will pass from. 
 
 The statement, issued by a government spokesperson said the state government has been taking up the issue of construction of various railway lines in Himachal Pradesh, like Nagal-Talwara, Chandigarh-Baddi, Bhanupalli-Bilaspur-Beri with the Union Ministry of Railways from time to time but progress of construction of these rail lines is very slow.
 
 Failure of the railways to expand in the hill state is a major issue. Earlier, BJP leaders from the state used to blame successive Congress governments in the Centre for ignoring the interests of Himachal Pradesh by not providing new lines. But since it came to power in 2014, the Congress is accusing the BJP-led NDA government of doing the same with Himachal Pradesh.
 
 Addressing the BJP’s   on October 18 last year, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said the   conceived the Nangal-Talwara project in 1981 and 35 years later, when he asked about the fate of this project, he was informed that in all these years, initial project cost escalated from RS 34 crore to Rs 2,100 crore.
 
 Similarly, he said, Bhanupalli-Bilaspur-Beri rail line was conceived around 10 years back at a cost of around Rs 3,000 crore but after elections, it was shelved. Modi said the government is working on the project again.
 
 
