JAISALMER: The   (BSF)   and   that has been the glory of   in Delhi for last 40 years will perform this year too. BSF’s camel contingent and camel-mounted band have started preparations for it.

 Around 100 camels from Rajasthan frontier have reached Delhi. The camels are being provided special diet so that once the parade is over, they do not feel tired. Exercises for camels are for 40 minutes every day. The camel-mounted band is rehearsing on many new tunes.
 
 Camel contingent in-charge Kuldeep Choudhary from Delhi said that like every year, this year too around 100 camels from Rajasthan have reached Delhi to take part in the parade. They have begun preparations, he added. The camels, every day at 5 am leave from their camp and reach Rajpath at 6.30 am. The rehearsal goes on from 7am to 9am. He said in the evening every day, each camel is given 300 gram of sesame oil and then their exercises begin for 40 minutes. To make the camels more attractive their hair is trimmed regularly and they are massaged to add lustre to the skin.
 
 Choudhary said camels are given special diet along with cattle feed including 200 gram jaggery and 170gm of alum liquid. He added that camel-mounted band that is a part of camel contingent is also preparing. They are rehearsing on new tunes under the supervision of band master inspector Phula Ram. Camel mounted bank that is mentioned in Guinness Book of Record will play new tunes during this parade.
 
  DIG Ravi Gandhi said, “These ceremonial contingents are not merely the pride of that magnificent force, but also that of the entire nation. Troops of the BSF on camels, holding various modern arms of combat and the BSF musical contingent on camels inspires as well as makes millions feel proud.”
 
 Gandhi added, “Camel-mounted band which is registered in the   is preparing hard to perform well on the occasion of Republic Day. The Camel Band is a creative and innovative way of presenting martial music and has gone through various stages of evolution, more particularly since 1976. Prior to this from 1950 to 1975, Army camel contingent would participate in Republic Day parade and from 1976 till now, BSF camel contingent has been participating in the Republic Day Parade.
 
 
