PUNE: Earlier this week, working professional Shruti Agarwal (30) was in for a shock as she was travelling towards Kondhwa after attending a get-together near MG Road.

 “I hailed the vehicle at around 11pm from MG Road towards Kondhwa. The autorickshaw’s meter was at Rs23 and I knew that night time rates are higher. When I reached my apartment, the fare on the meter read Rs110. Then the driver said that I had to pay him Rs165. I was questioned him and he simply said that it was the  . A serious argument broke out and the driver started shouting at me claiming that he had told me about the additional charge before the ride started. Seeing his temper, I paid him Rs200 and got into my building without waiting for the change. I was too afraid to even check the vehicle’s registration number,” Agarwal said.
 
 Agarwal may be trying hard to forget the ordeal but she isn’t the only one facing such situations. A number of commuters have been in similar circumstances when auto drivers have sought additional fare, equalling half the amount recorded on the meter. While the drivers call it night charge and tend to refuse rides over disagreements, many passengers say they have no option but to pay up as finding public transport is difficult at odd hours.
 
 Officially, an   covers the minimum 1.5km distance at Rs18, with Rs2 added to the fare at every one kilometre. Post 12am, the fare hikes up to Rs23 as the midnight charge comes into effect and the per kilometre charge also increases.
 
 In January, Koregaon Park resident Akshay Kulkarni was in quite the same situation as Agarwal. “I was returning home from Vimannagar at around 11.30pm. I had missed by office cab and had to take an autorickshaw. The driver asked me to pay half the fare in addition to the amount showing on the meter. I thought this was the official system so I paid up. Later, my friends told me that the additional charge was illegal,” he recalled.
 
 Kulkarni shared another incident when he had to wait an hour because he refused to pay the additional amount to seven different autorickshaw drivers. “Finally, I had no option but to book an Ola cab,” he said.
 
 However, autorickshaw drivers point out that the day and night charges are fixed and additional charges are illegal. “There is no rule that asks customers to pay money in addition to what is recorded on the meter,” said  , an auto driver.
 
 Despite the assurance, passengers stated that several rickshaw drivers take advantage of the situation. “The drivers usually refuse rides, especially in the evenings. It is a ploy to take advantage of the situation. People can book a ride through a taxi aggregator but that costs more. The authorities talk about taking action but nothing happens,” Krishna Jadhav, another daily commuter, pointed out.
 
 Senior officials at the   (RTO) were not available for comment.
 
 A source at the RTO, however, said that the additional charges were illegal and would be checked. “The RTO is concerned about the increasing number of complaints. The authority will look into it and find a solution. The drivers must be sensitized. The RTO does hold talks with different autorickshaw unions from time to time asking them to spread the word. The officials have been asked to hold surprise checks and any driver found refusing or misbehaving with a passenger will face stern action, including cancellation of their permits or license,” an RTO official said.
 
