BHOPAL: When   slams an instep kick into the target pad, you almost wince, imagining it land on someone’s face. It has helped her win dozens of medals – including a SAF gold – and bag 60th place in the latest World Taekwondo rankings – the highest by any Indian, male or female.

 Even when not in the Taekwondo uniform (dobok), there’s no missing the confidence in her stride. Tangle with her at your own peril – the 24-year-old thinks nothing of snapping a few thousand kicks a day. Any one can snap a bone.
 
 Latika, who competes in the below-53 kg category practices with men. She is headed for the European Taekwondo Union President Cup next week. “I think practising with the boys is a blessing in disguise for me. It helps me improve my game as they have a faster technique. I have to keep improving my game, so I never compromise with my training schedule,” she told TOI in between sparring sessions at State   at Tatya Tope stadium. She joined in 2008 and has gone from strength to strength.
 
 Juggling a master’s in physical education course in   with her world Taekwondo ambitions, she says her father  , who is posted in Nagaland with the Assam Rifles, has been a big motivation. “My father inspired me to prove my mettle in this very demanding sport. He taught me how to keep moving in life and face bad situations. He always motivated me to keep putting my best foot forward,” says the athlete.
 
 She has the attitude of a winner – her favourite fight is one she lost. “It was the quarter-finals at the Korea Open quarter finals in July. I was competing with a Chinese athlete and thought I was winning but lost 12-15. It was a close one, a very grueling fight. But it taught me a lot,” she says. “Taekwondo is a very fast-paced sport, which needs regular, intense training. I am aiming at a medal in the next Asian Games. The sports department has provided everything I need to fulfil my dreams,” said Latika. The Korean martial art is an Olympic medal sport and involves full-contact sparring. Fights are so intense that the athletes throw two to three kicks per second.
 
 The five-time senior national champion – including a gold in the 34th National Games in 2011 -- knows how tough a challenge she has set for herself. “I know it is not easy to win a medal. Hence, I am staying focused,” says the champ. “The stadium is my second home,” she smiles. Her coaches have high expectations of her and even see as a serious contender for the Olympics. “She has been a consistent performer for several years and proved her mettle by winning gold in the SAF Games. We have high hopes of her,” said senior coach of Martial Arts Academy BLN Murthy.
 
 
