PUNE:   and   played above their ranking of 64 and 338 respectively. But the Kiwi pair of   and   didn't allow them to play at a good level consistently.

 The visiting duo won a well-fought contest 3-6, 6-3, 7-6 (8-6), 6-3 in about three hours to clinch the doubles rubber on Saturday evening and kept the Asia-Oceania Group 1   tie alive at Shiv Chhatrapati sports complex here. After losing both singles on Friday, the New Zealanders now trail 1-2.
 
 India will hold advantage in the reverse singles on Sunday. And if   plays even closer to his Friday display, the hosts should take an unassailable 3-1 lead. But Paes has already said they won't be surprised if the visitors draft in Venus to play the reverse singles.
 
 It was a day when shot-making proved more effective than court craft; hitting the balls between the opponents more important than hitting at them and the ability to hit powerful ground-strokes more potent than passages of inspiration that came from the Indian pair.
 
 Kiwis came out top on the big moments in the pivotal third set as India couldn't convert five break-point opportunities. In the process, Venus and Artem also showed why they are ranked 38th and 61st respectively.
 
 At one set apiece, the Kiwis knew that they needed to change something. They did that in the form of changing their server sequence in the third set. It appeared to have backfired as they trailed 1540 on Venus' serve in the second game. But the Kiwis responded well with Sitak coming up with an acrobatic backhand volley. Then, Venus responded with an unreturnable serve followed by a forehand cross-court finish to hold.
 
 Slowly but surely, the Kiwis found their rhythm and were frequently rewarded for more aggressive intent. The Indians remained better at court craft and they also won a majority of the longish rallies in this phase.
 
 At 5-6 Sitak's serve came under pressure. But he responded like a champion. First a 209 kmph delivery; then a mere 161kmph on the body which was too hot to handle; then a sliced ace on the forehand corner clocking just 162.And he capped it with another 200-plus delivery to take it to the tiebreak. Vardhan was broken in the tiebreak as Kiwis led 5-4. But despite Venus' double-fault on the very next point, Kiwis played two points of high quality to win the tiebreak 8-6.
 
 
