VISAKHAPATNAM: A promising all-rounder KV Sasikanth from Vizag has been selected for the India Emerging-U-23 team that will play in the Asian Cricket Council’s Tournament (Emerging Cup) in Dhaka in the last week of March.

 A right-arm fast bowler, Sasikanth is also emerging to be a solid middle order batsman for the ACA. 
 
 Just 21 years old, Sasikanth is a final year BA student from Dr Lankapalli Bullayya College in Vizag city. He proved to be one of the stars of the Andhra Under-23 team during the recently concluded CK Nayudu U-23 Trophy tourney where the Andhra team created history by entering the finals, where they lost to the team from Punjab. During this tournament he scored 180 runs and scalped 34 wickets in seven matches, prompting his selection in the national squad, which will be led by Tamil Nadu bat Baba Aparajit. Eight teams will participate in this tourney.
 
 “I have played for Andhra in the all-India Ranji Trophy Group C in the last two sessions and also represented Andhra in the T-20 format in the Syed Mushtaq Ali T-20 tournament. Now, I have been given a great opportunity to play for India and am waiting to prove my talent both with the ball and bat in the Emerging Cup tournament,” Sasikanth, said.
 
 He further added that he had a tough task on his hands to prove himself as an all-rounder, but noted that he was confident to excel with both bat and ball. The quickie noted that pace was his forte and added that he had clocked 130 kms per hour on a regular basis. The six footer said he would work on his fitness to bowl faster and with greater accuracy. He pointed out that this tourney would prove to be a learning experience at a different level and added that his life time dream had been to play for team India. Regarding the cricketers who inspire him the most he quickly responded with the names,  ,   and Dale Stein. 
 
 Sasikanth’s father K Ramakrishna is an employee of the   (VPT) and a former cricketer who represented the VPT. Sasikanth expressed his gratitude to his parents, Ramakrishna and Lakshmi, and also sincerely thanked the ACA and VDCA for their continuous support and encouragement. 
 
 I have played for Andhra in the all-India Ranji Trophy Group C in the last two sessions and also represented Andhra in the T-20 format in the Syed Mushtaq Ali T-20 tournament. Now, I have opportunity to play for India and am waiting to prove my talent both with the ball and bat in the Emerging Cup tournament”
 
