Indore has of late been seeing larger-than-life   featuring celebrities, heritage destinations, elaborate menus and lavish  . But the wedding extravaganza in the city might soon see a dip if the proposed   in the  , to put a limit on the number of guests being invited and food being served at weddings, is enforced. If the bill gets passed, those spending above `5 lakh on a wedding will need to   10 per cent of the amount towards the marriages of girls from  . Here’s what Indoreans have to say about the proposal.

 
 
 
 While society is still coping with demonetisation, not many are pleased with this proposal. Dhairya Jain, who runs an event management company says, “According to the   which has been passed for the next financial year, the service tax which is currently 15 per cent for weddings has gone up to 18-19 per cent in the form of GST (goods and services tax). If this bill is enforced, the taxation would come to over 30 per cent, which is too much for anybody. I anticipate a huge dip in the event industry if this bill is passed.” Mukesh Mittal, whose nephew will be getting married in the last week of February, agrees, saying, “The expenses we incur in the weddings of our children is part of our savings which is already taxable. We need to pay the service tax as well after the wedding, and the idea of shelling out 10 per cent more is something I strongly disapprove of.”
 
 
 
 
 Event management is a field that has opened job opportunities for several people. “From cooks and waiters to the youngsters who work as volunteers — many people meet their daily needs from the wages that we pay them. Hundreds of vendors earn their living from the event industry and the wedding season is a boon for them. If wedding budgets go down, the livelihood of these people will be affected. It would be a more thoughtful move if the government thinks of other proposals to educate these people or ask them to work in the same industry in which we are working. The menu and guest list at a wedding is a part of a person’s   and I think the government should not interfere in it,” says Ankit Macwana, a city-based wedding planner and event organiser. 
 
 
 
 
 But there are those who feel that extravagant weddings need to be checked. Jay Kothari, a businessman whose son will be getting married in March says, “The government should come up with a better plan to set a defined budget for weddings. But sponsoring someone else’s wedding at the cost of our hard-earned money is not something I approve of. If the bill is passed in the near future, we will lower the budget of my son’s wedding. The feeling of charity should come voluntarily and not under imposition.”
 
 
 
 
 For some, spending on things they like is part of their lifestyle and a little extra, on charity, will not matter, feels Chaitanya Gir, the owner of a high-budgeted marriage garden in the city. He says, “This is not going to affect our business, because a wedding is an entire family’s dream. Five lakh is too small a budget for the elite, and the clientele that we serve won’t settle for it. They would rather contribute the extra 10 per cent for a noble cause.”
