NAGPUR: Citizens must follow certain basic rules before complaining about filth and squalor around them. If people want a  , they too must do their bit towards achieving this. No household in Nagpur follows the simple steps of segregating dry and wet garbage, as mandated by   (NMC).

 The recently amended   (MSW) Management Rules 2016 say it is the responsibility of generators to segregate waste into two categories — wet and dry. The rule also has a provision to impose a fine for non-segregation of waste at source.
 
  But neither do Nagpurians segregate waste nor has the civic body penalized anyone for flouting the rule.
 
 This has forced hundreds of sanitary workers deployed by NMC’s health department to spend hours manually separating reusable material from the wet garbage. A delegation of sanitary workers, led by activist Siddharth Prabhune, met municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar and submitted a memorandum requesting an end to this apathy.
 
 The lack of awareness about this rule is also affecting achievement of Swachh Mission goals by the city, though there’s been a marked improvement in door-to-door collection of garbage in many areas over the past two years. 
 
 One of the prime reasons is that citizens do not segregate dry and wet waste before dumping it in the hopper vans that go door-to-door every day.
 
 Now, NMC has launched door-to-door garbage collection again in some parts of Dhantoli and Laxmi Nagar zones, said a senior NMC official. He admitted that earlier, despite having hopper vans customized with separate compartments for dry and wet garbage, NMC never insisted on waste segregation at source.
 
 “The civic body’s sanitary workers and employees of  , the private firm appointed for door-to-door lifting of garbage, failed in discharging their duties. Besides, Nagpurians too do not cooperate with NMC’s drive about waste segregation at source,” the official said.
 
 The city generates about 1,100 metric tonne waste every day, and the civic body spends crores on collection and transportation. “People dispose both dry and wet waste in the same bin, posing threat to our health,” said a sanitary worker requesting anonymity.
 
 There are about 8,000 odd sanitation workers and NMC has started segregation of dry and wet garbage in only two zones, Laxmi Nagar and Dhantoli. Sanitary workers from these two zones are segregating around 100 metric tonne garbage every day, he claimed. “They use bare hands, exposing themselves to numerous diseases, to carry out the job,” an NMC official admitted.
 
 
