Mumbai, whose seams had burst decades ago, could now lose its mangroves to builders, legally. The latest   (DP 2014-2034) has included the entire   at the   in the city’s land area, opening up a way for builders to take over the area.

 As per the BMC’s DP 2014-2034, the city’s land area has increased by almost 40 sq km over the last 25 years, about the size of 4,000 Oval Maidans. Of these 40 sq km, 14.96 sq km area is the mangrove land along the Thane Creek, and the rest is the result of siltation.
 
 This data has urban planners and experts in a spin, as the city’s land area was measured at 437 sq km in 1991’s sanctioned DP, and the jump to 475 sq km in the proposed DP obviously means taking over areas hitherto out-of-bounds for politicians and developers.
 
 The development plan for the city is revised every 20 years, and the   sources said an increase in land area was attributed to “siltation” and inclusion of “mangrove land”. Sources further said the 14.96 sq km mangrove land along the Thane Creek is expected to be brought within the BMC limits.
 
 Ashok Ravat, executive committee member of the NGO NAGAR, who is also president of the G(North) Citizens’ Forum, claimed there was a “legal deficiency” in the entire process of drafting the DP.
 
 “Even if additional land area was available in Mumbai, due process of law should have been followed by notifying the additional land under the Maharashtra Town Planning (MRTP) Act. When the original MRTP notice was issued in 2007, it had notified Mumbai’s land area as 437 sq km. But if there is additional area identified for the city, the BMC, as a planning authority, should issue another MRTP notice stating it intends to merge the additional area with the sanctioned development plan of 1991, or have a separate development plan for additional 40 sq km,” Ravat said.
 
 Experts and urban planners said considering mangrove land as “landed mass” in the proposed DP was worrisome as it left scope for land grab by the builder mafia. “Mangrove land should be preserved as a natural area at all times, and the BMC should ensure no development takes place there,” another urban planning expert said.
 
 The contents of the draft DP have caused a stir in political circles even as the Shiv Sena’s Yashwant Jadhav, leader of the House in BMC, asked for a two-month extension to discuss the draft in the general body meeting. Meanwhile, Samajwadi Party’s Rais Shaikh, the BMC Standing Committee member, said such “flaw” was not explained by the administration. Opposing the Sena’s demand for a two-month extension, he said, “There are many discrepancies which will never come to the public domain, and the draft DP could be passed with flaws without a debate,” Shaikh said.
 
