

 KOLKATA: The investment proposals announced in the third edition of the   would come as a big relief to chief minister  . It's not just because the state has bagged proposals in excess of Rs 2.35 lakh crore, but more so because the share of investments from central projects in the total matrix is less than 10% this time.
 
 In 2016, direct investments and funds announced by central PSUs accounted for more than 30% of the total commitment. The weightage of central investment in manufacturing was over 75%. This year, the scene is different, with majority of the manufacturing investments pouring in from the private sector and foreign companies.
 
 Due to the absence of Union ministers from the business summit, no new central project was announced this time. Experts feel this will give Banerjee flexibility and reduce her dependence on the Centre, with which the state has been at loggerheads over demonetisation. Incidentally , four major Union ministers attended the meet last year -Arun Jaitley (finance), Suresh Prabhu (railways),   (transport) and   (power). 
 
 “Naturally, there were announcements from central PSUs and the Centre in 2016,“ an industry insider added. a bit of data crunching reveals that of Rs 61,765 crore investment declared in manufactur the ing, only Rs 3,000 crore is from a CPSU -Gail for the proposed pipeline from Jagdishpur to bring green gas to Bengal. The amount is a little less than 5% of the total proposed investment in manufacturing, this summit's focus sector.
 
 The major investments in manufacturing this time were from   (Rs 27,200 crore), Great Eastern Energy (Rs 6,800 crore), Exide (Rs 1,120 crore), TCG (Rs 1,000 crore) and Kinetic Group (Rs 800 crore). There was a fair amount of foreign direct investment as well, with FDIs being announced by TEB Technologies and Auto Haus (both China's), Cedrus of Russia and Topaz Solar.
 
 Last year, the two biggest investment proposals were from Sail (Rs 40,000 crore) and for the deep-sea port, off Sagar Island (Rs 40,000 crore). “This time, some of the projects announced will either start soon or the process has started already ,“ added a source.
 
 Referring to the past two editions of BGBS, in which the state received proposals worth over Rs 4.93 lakh crore, Mamata Banerjee had said on Saturday that 40% were in the implementation stage. “Any project takes time to implement. One has to prepare the DPR and then carry out other studies. We announce only those projects that will be implemented or have commitment for implementation,“ she had added.
 
 Another major contrast with last year was the thrust on food processing, which experts feel could be the real game-changer for the state.Last year, proposals worth only Rs 230 crore were announced, but this time it was worth Rs 10,649 crore.
 
