BHOPAL: At first glance,  , a village on outskirts of the state capital, comes across like any other non-descript village. Villagers huddled in groups, talking to each other, enjoying sunlight is common sight. But walk some distance into the village, till panchayat office, and you are struck by somewhat an uncommon sight: A Muslim sarpanch presiding over a meeting for Holi celebration.

 A population of around 800 with 130 houses, the village stands out as a shining example of communal harmony with Muslims and Hindus coming together to celebrate each other’s festival. And this time, the villagers were all agog ahead of festival of colours.
 
 “We will perform Holika dahan (Holi bonefire) sharp at 5 am on Monday as per Hindu ritual and thereafter will begin play of colours,” said Syed Chirag Ali, sarpanch of the village and president of  . Unlike in rest of the country, we burn Holika on the day when the festival is celebrated with colours.
 
 Villagers here celebrate Holi festival with great enthusiasm without taking community difference as any barrier. “If any Hindu refuses to play Holi we all get together and ‘attack’ him first with colours with gulaal. The idea is to play holi with him,” said Himmat Singh, a villager.
 
 Ali is a sarpanch for last 15 years and is the only person, who constructed first temple of the village – Ram Mandir – around 14 years ago. Ramesh Kumar, a villager, said: “Chirag Ali is a Muslim. He well knows Hindu festival rituals. At times even better than us.”
 
 The village has Ram temple and a mosque, where everyone is allowed to enter without any problem. Himmat Singh said: “Whenever there is a function, the whole village goes there and attends the function.”
 
 The communal harmony is being practised for more than 50 years. Rohit Maran, another villager, said, “I still remember the ‘grand yagya’ which we organised around two years ago. The pandal and ‘hawan kund’ are prepared by Muslims and mostly all rituals are carried out by them.” The village is living in harmony for ages and there is not a single instace of communal violence or disturbance in the history of the village.
 
 Ali said: “Policemen are deployed in other nearby areas during festivals. Law and order was never a problem. Policemen are not deployed here for security purpose. Even town inspector of the area is well aware of communal amity in this area.”
 
 
