KOCHI: Residents of  , an evacuee property in   , face a unique problem: They have been unable to get individual water connections as their homes once belonged to people who had migrated to   during the Partition. Once a property is classified as evacuee property , it comes under the control of the Central government.

 The title deeds of properties in Asraj Colony have names of people such as Rahman Haji Ibrahim Kassim Sait and Haji Sulaiman Haji Ibrahim Kassim Sait who left for Pakistan and have now become untraceable.
 
 Recently , when a resident approached officials for water connection, they asked her to get the consent letter of the property owner. “They asked me to get a consent letter of the owner of the building. Should I go to Pakistan to get the consent letter,“ asks  , mother of a toddler.
 
 The buildings here are in a dilapidated condition and they are still deprived of title deeds for the land.
 
 “The officials had promised us apartments. But the problem is that each family comprises more than six or seven members. Our married children are also living under the same roof. Shifting to a 350 sq ft apartment will be difficult,“ said Saleena, a house owner.
 
 The property tax receipt of residents in the colony still carry names of the Saits since the properties exist in their names. Elderly residents living in small rooms in the build ings, which were once rice godowns, fondly remember the old days.
 
 “We do not know anything about those who had left for Pakistan. When we came here around 60 years ago, there were only three families living in the building. My husband bought a house, functioning in the godown for Rs 4,000 from a Kutchi businessman. When the real owners of the buildings left for Pakistan, Memons used to run the business there. It was so peaceful during that time and people from Malabar used to work in the godowns. They lived in the upstairs on rent.With the arrival of more families, population increased and the colony has lost its charm,“ recollects Umaiba Bava.
 
 Sulaiman, another resident in the colony , remembers that manual scavenging was in force in those days.
 
 “During my childhood, people in the colony answered nature's call in big cans and scavengers from the municipality used to remove it. The colony was clean and we got pure drinking water from public taps. We don't know the Saits, still we pay property tax in their names,“ he says.
 
