KOLKATA: Much of the  , now spearheading the Gorkhaland statehood demand in the Hills, may have to come down to the plains next Monday to appear in court for the hearing of the   murder case.

 The Calcutta high court on Wednesday directed GJM president   and 22 others, charged by the CBI for the May 2010 murder of Tam-ang, to be present in a city court on July 24 when the case is heard next. These 23 people, who comprise much of the GJM leadership, will have to be present at the City Civil and Sessions Court at every hearing. The HC also directed the lower court to complete the pre-trial hearing by August 17 and repeatedly chided the central probe agency for taking the case “lightly” and “not seriously”.
 
 The GJM chose not to react officially to the order but legal sources said the party was planning to challenge the order either in the HC itself or in the Supreme Court, arguing that Wednesday’s order curbed its right to movement and so deserved a hearing. The HC will hear the case again on August 23, by when the lower court have had several hearings of the case.
 
 It remains to be seen how the GJM leadership will get around this court order but the prospect of appearing in Kolkata, where Trinamool Congress runs the show, will not be very attractive. GJM MLAs have already got an earful — from   Pal inside the assembly — the last time they came down to the city to vote in the presidential polls.
 
 The 62-year-old Tamang was stabbed to death in full public view in the heart of Darjeeling’s tourist zone, on the Mall, in May 2010. Tamang was the president of Akhil Bh-aratiya Gorkha League and, for many, the moderate face of the pro-Gorkhaland agitation.
 
 The HC glare on the CBI came after the agency told a bench of acting chief justice Nishita Mhatre and justice   that the pre-trial delays in the on-going hearing were not of its making. It claimed the agency had performed its duty “diligently and with due integrity”, prompting the acting chief justice to poin out the how the same court — had on December 14, 2016, while granting anticipatory bail to Gurung and the others — had specified that all the accused were to reach Kolkata a day before the charges were framed and should remain here till the trial was over.
 
 CBI counsel Asraf Ali said arguments on the charges were incomplete and the trial court was yet to dispose the eight discharge petitions and framing of charges would happen thereafter. The trial court had fixed a July 24 date for the next hearing.
 
 But this prompted a barrage of questions from the court. “Why is the CBI not taking the issue seriously? Did the CBI just watch when the court allowed their plea (for not appearing in court personally)? Why is CBI taking the matter so lightly?” justice Mhatre asked. Additional solicitor-general Kaushik Chanda then told the bench that CBI did verbally oppose the plea but this begot more questions. Justice Mhatre asked state advocate-general Kishore Dutta: “Can charges be framed in the absence of the accused?” Dutta replied in the negative, prompting some more questions from the HC. It then put an August 17 deadline for completion of pre-trial activity.
 
 The CBI, on January 19, 2011, charge-sheeted 23 persons for Madan Tamang’s murder. Among them were senior GJM leaders Bimal Gurung and Binay Tamang, Pradip Pradhan, Col Ramesh Aley, Roshan Giri, Devendra Sharma and Dinesh Tamang as well as current as well as Jana Andolan Party chief Harka Bahadur Chhetri. all of them were charged with criminal conspiracy for murder, criminal intimidation and conniving for unlawful assembly.
 
 
