BHOPAL: Madhya Pradesh Human Rights Commission (MPHRC) has sought a detailed report from Bhopal district education officer into the incident wherein a student of Class 12 allegedly died after going into   following a goof up by the school.

 The student, Ravi, was forced to appear in biology stream though he was a student of mathematics.He died on March 7. His examination started on March 1. Biology was incorrectly mentioned as subject in his admit card, which was a lapse on part of school administration. His school authorities did not listen to him, after which he went into depression.
 
 His condition started deteriorating after writing Hindi and English papers, and he was unable to take his remaining papers. The family of deceased, Ravi, alleged that his death was due to lapse on part of the school administration. The deceased was a student of government school at Harrakheda village in Berasia on city outskirts. He was a regular student of Class 12 in mathematics stream. 
 
 The student apprised school authorities of the goof up and made repeated pleas to get it corrected, but to no avail. He was rather convinced to appear for the Biology exam. Subsequently, he slipped into depression, he family alleged.
 
 When his condition deteriorated after first two papers, his parents took him to different hospitals in Berasia and Bhopal, but he could not be saved. The   has asked the district education officer how a student can be forced to appear in subjects, which he didn’t opt for.The commission has asked the DEO to submit a detailed report for the same. It has also asked the department as to what action has been initiated against the school for its indifference that cost the student his life. 
 
 The   is unwilling to accept the fault. DEO Dharmendra Kumar Sharma said it was an error and the school had initiated the process to rectify it.“The boy did not die of depression. He was probably suffering from some kind of disorder,” he said. 
 
 Incidentally, this is not the only case. Over a 1000 instances of such lapses came to light in MP this year wherein wrong subjects were printed on the admission cards, which was later rectified. MPHRC addition director   said the commission has taken a strong note of the incident and sought a report within 7 days from the DEO.
 
