CHENNAI: A sexual abuse case initiated by a Class IX girl against her father and brother has been quashed by the Madras   which found that she had lied to police, copied a complaint available with a child helpline and also suffered from schizophrenic disorders.

 It turned out that the girl lodged the complaint because her father was strict and often reprimanded her for poor academic performances. She wanted to leave her home and stay in hostel.
 
 Reddiarpalayam police in Puducherry, however, had registered a case under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012, and arrested the father in April 2016.
 
 Justice R Mahadevan, quashing the FIR, said: “A plain reading of the   would show that the entire proceedings are maliciously instituted with ulterior motive to wreak vengeance against them. Furthermore, the findings rendered by the Schizophrenia Research Foundation, Chennai for psychological evaluation (psychotic treatment) would show that the girl does not have capacity to think about the outcome of her behaviour and that she copied the complaint letter verbatim as written by one Sharmi from the Child Helpline. It is also seen that she wanted to stay in a hostel and wrote a complaint against her father and brother, and she did not think about the consequence of her action. In view of the above stated circumstances the impugned FIR pending on the file of   police is quashed.”
 
 In her complaint, the girl alleged that her father had sexually abused her before she attained puberty and that her brother had taken photographs while she was taking a bath. Police booked the case for offences punishable Section 6 of POCSO Act, and arrested her father. It was the high court which found something amiss, as the complaint was too neat, without any mistake and any overwriting. It asked the police to produce the girl before it on June 14, 2016, when it found that she was not even able to read the complaint properly.
 
 Then the court referred the girl for conducting psychiatric tests and found out that she actually wanted to stay in a hostel away from home and that she copied the complaint written by a helpline volunteer, whom the girl met at an awareness programme in her school. The court found she was intellectually below average and did not have capacity to think about the consequences of her acts and behaviour.
 
 The father’s counsel told the court that she had to change three schools due to poor academic performance and that she found her present school too strict. The girl was unable to differentiate between right and wrong acts, he said. Quashing the FIR, the judge also pointed out that there was no pornographic picture available so as to implicate the father and brother in the alleged crime.
 
