PUNE: The  , an affiliate of BJP's  , said it would meet the government to press for its demands that are in the interest of bank employees. 

 The demands include opposition to  , faster and need-based recruitment, participation in discussions with managements and steps to deal with non-performing assets of banks. The organisation said the status of bank employees should be restored to what it was 25 to 30 years ago. 
 
 The 11th bipartite wage settlement agreement, which is expected to revise bank employees' wages by November 1, 2017, is scheduled to get underway this month. The NOBF said it will seek benefits on par with Central government employees who are given salaries and pension as per pay  .
 
 "The 'communist unions' which hold sway over wage negotiations are responsible for the lower wages of bank employees. About 25 to 30 years ago, banking was among the top three professions and needs to be restored," the union said in a letter addressed to the Prime Minister.
 
 Wage agreements are delayed beyond their time. For instance, the last wage agreement that was supposed to be settled in 2012, was finalised only in 2015. The delay led to multiple strikes by bank employees across the country.
 
 The organisation claims to represent 40,000 of the 10 lakh bank employees. 
 
 Upendra Kumar, the union's general secretary, said the government should facilitate participation of the union in discussions with managements and the Indian Banks' Association (which negotiates wage settlements) as managements talk only with unions which claim to have 10% representation.
 
 Kumar said only X and XII standard pass students should be allowed to write banks' clerical exams. "Giving graduates and engineers clerical jobs puts rural youths at a disadvantage as they do not have the means to study beyond matriculation," he added.
 
 The union said employing guards at banks and ATM centres on contract basis must be done away with as they tend to be exploited. It said banks should make names of wilful defaulters public, a question that even the SC has asked the RBI. Banks often cite 'client confidentiality' as a reason to deny specific information on defaulters.
 
 The union also opposed automation, which it said was 'counter productive', as there are functions where people are needed. "For instance, the volume of cheque transaction has increased manifold after demonetisation. You need manpower to clear the cheques," it said. 
 
