CHENNAI: A private   company is facing the music for illegally auctioning a mortgaged property after the demise of the borrower with the   ( ) ordering it to pay a compensation of Rs 40 lakh. The tribunal also directed the non-banking financial institution to restore the property to the legal heirs.

 The case relates to a housing loan availed from the   (NATRUST) by a couple   and  , who died in a road accident in 2009. According to the affidavit of the applicant Irene Manohar, a guarantor and power of attorney of the deceased couple's three legal heirs, the borrowers had paid EMIs promptly till their death for a loan amounting to `13 lakh.
 
 After furnishing necessary copies including death certificate of the deceased borrowers with the NATRUST, the applicant sought closure of the account and return of documents since the loan is linked to an insurance policy. Meanwhile, the private housing finance company issued a demand notice in the name of the deceased borro wers to pay dues amounting to `15,63,206 as the insurance policy was allegedly cancelled.
 
 Later, the private housing finance company proceeded further to recover the due amount using provisions of SARFAESI Act by selling the property through auction in 2010 and issuing sale certificate in favour of the auction purchaser, the affidavit claimed. Thereafter, an application was filed by Irene Manohar in the DRT seeking relief.
 
 In his order delivered recently ,NV Badarinath, presiding officer, DRT-I, Chennai, termed the measures initiated by the non-banking financial institution under SARFAESI Act and the actions including sale of the mortgaged property as “illegal and unsustainable under law“ and set them aside.
 
 The private housing finance company had made a “mockery of the mandatory procedure“ while initiating measures under the SARFAESI Act, it added. “The respondents (NATRUST) shall pay compensation of `10 lakh to each of the applicants,“ the presiding officer said in his order, adding that the vacant possession of the secured asset should be restored to the applicants.
 
 When contacted, NATRUST did not respond to phone calls.
 
