PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The Lonavala police on Saturday barred tourists from entering Bhushi dam for about one-and-a-half hours as a precautionary measure because of high pressure of water flowing down its stairs.

 Police inspector   told TOI, “We did not allow tourists to scale the staircase for some time in the morning as a precautionary measure.”
 
 The city and its surrounding areas were abound with tourists as Saturday was a weekend. Bhushi dam also saw a huge rush of tourists. Between 10.30am and 11am, the pressure of water flowing down the stairs at the dam was extremely high. 
 
 “There was a high chance of tourists slipping over the stairs or falling over the rocks and getting injured. So, we directed the tourists to move out to avoid accidents,” the Lonavala police said.
 
 The water regained its optimum pressure after about one-and-a-half hours.
 
 “As the intensity reduced, the tourists were allowed entry to the stairs again. The tourists enjoyed their outing at the dam till the usual closing time of 6pm. A total of three officers and 12 policemen were deployed in and around Bhushi dam to control the movement of tourists and prevent any untoward incidents,” a Lonavala police official said.
 
 Every day, the tourists are asked to vacate the stairs of the dam around 6pm so that they can move out of   by 9pm to avoid traffic congestion within the town till late in the night.
 
 Policemen were deployed at 35 to 40 points in Lonavala town, stretching from Valvan dam to Khandala and Khandala to Tiger point, on Saturday. In addition, the police had increased the number of diversion points so that vehicles could enter from one point and exit from another. 
 
 Normally, vehicles in the race to reach the destination first form two or more rows, causing traffic congestion on the narrow roads. The police prevented formation of more than one row for the vehicles heading in a common direction on Saturday. The move led to congestion-free movement in Lonavala town and the nearby areas.
 
 Azhar Contractor, president, Lonavala Hotels’ Association, told TOI, “The   smoothly on Saturday due to police bandobast at various points in the town.” 
 
