JODHPUR: Over 3,000 doctors and medical students from 25 states will congregate at AIIMS, Jodhpur, for a two-day multidisciplinary conference NMOCON-2017 on February 11-12. The conference is being organised by   and its theme is “Accessible Medical Health for All: Healthy and Competent Nation”.

 Union medical and health minister   and Union science and technology minister   along with state medical and health minister   have consented to be part of the event. It will include various competitions like symposia, paper presentations, quizzes, debates, essays, elocution besides guest lectures and panel discussions.
 
 Organising secretary of the event   said that the event is aimed at stimulating sustainable communication between teachers and students of medicine and inculcating among students a sense of duty towards the society and the nation as a doctor.
 
 He said that the focus of the conference would be more on prevention than cure with a larger perspective of community health. Also, light will be shed on the ancient Indian science for better health.
 
 According to organising chairman Ashok Kalwar, the event will also strive to explore the integration of modern medicine with ancient life philosophies called Ayush, i.e., holistic and positive health.
 
 He said that awareness among people about ancient health practices has seen a spurt and they are exploring the lifestyles that their ancestors and forefathers practised for better health.
 
 “Prior to the conference, 150 doctors will cycle from Bikaner to Jodhpur. Enroute, they will hold street plays and night chaupals in the villages and towns to spread awareness among people about diseases caused by the modern lifestyle,” Dinesh Dutt Sharma said.
 
 The cycle rally will end with a workshop on positive health on February 10, after which the doctors will head to AIIMS, Jodhpur, to take part in the conference.
 
 At the conference, leading doctors, scientists and speakers will deliver lectures on holistic health across different academic and scientific sessions.
 
