AHMEDABAD: The   in the state has affected about 20% of the   and led to fear of poor quality groundnut and bajra summer crops. The rains, however, will prove to be a blessing for   intent on sowing a BT  .

 V P Chovatiya, research director, Junagadh Agricultural University said, “The majority of summer crops have been harvested and farmers are waiting for the next sowing, around the first week of June. The mango crop still on the trees will be affected as the hailstorms and rain were accompanied by strong winds.”
 
 So far there have been no reports of rain in the coastal areas and the summer sesame crop has thus been saved. Rain and strong winds could completely destroy or badly affect the sesame crop in he coastal areas.
 
 Former agriculture officer B M Vaghela said the summer groundnut and bajra crops will be in the fields in areas where the sowing was relatively late. These unseasonal rains will affect the crop quality as the water will adversely affect the flowering of these crops. He further said that the farmers who want to sow BT cotton will do it early, as there will be some moisture in the upper soil layer. However, not many farmers will go in for early sowing. Vaghela said that the onion crop, which has been harvested in most places and may be lying in the fields, would be adversely affected as well.
 
 N C Patel, vice-chancellor of Anand Agricultural University said, “Standing crops may be affected. However, barring mango, there should be no great impact.”
 
 Similar unseasonal rains earlier, coupled with heavy winds in parts of Amreli and Saurashtra have affected 15-20% of the mango crop. The heavy winds brought down fruit from the tree and the crop was damaged.
 
 Research scientist at Junagadh Agricultural University K Varu said that about 30% of the mango crop has alreadly been harvested and harvesting is in full swing. There were reports of heavy rain accompanied with strong winds in parts of Amreli. This rain and wind will definitely affect the crop. He said the market will also see a downward trend as far as quality mangoes is concerned. Varu further said the fruit will be blown off the trees and the crop would be affected. 
 
