GURUGRAM: Thick   engulfed the city on Monday morning, with   level rising by nearly 60% and air quality index ( ) by 11% compared to Sunday, as the new week opened to a gloomy  .

 The highest concentration of PM2.5 was 176.83 microgrammes per cubic metre (µg/m³) on Monday, compared to Sunday’s high of 109.56µg/m³.
 
 AQI touched 327 on Monday, which is considered ‘Very Poor’. At 294 (considered ‘Poor’), even Delhi’s AQI was better than Gurgaon’s. According to  , prolonged exposure to ‘Very Poor’ AQI can lead to respiratory illness, even for healthy people.
 
 The   department forecasts thick fog in the mornings throughout the week. “We’re expecting Tuesday to be a little cloudy. While other days of the week can experience bright sun, thick fog is expected to engulf the city early in the morning every day,” said an official of the Met department.
 
 The maximum temperature was 22.3°C, while the minimum dipped to 8.7°C on Monday, from 10°C on Sunday, and is expected to go down further by weekend. “Dry and cold winds are expected to begin blowing over the north-western plains into the city, bringing down minimum temperature by 2-3°C in two-three days. There will be bright sun during daytime, only nights will be cooler,” he said.
 
 Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) officials blamed rise in air pollution to Monday being a working day. “Concentration of PM2.5 on Monday rose during daytime. Increased traffic on the first workday of the week is clearly responsible for it. As the city is situated near the national highway, the pollution level is slightly above Delhi,” said a   official.
 
 According to experts, air pollution will get worse if dense fog continues. “We had thick fog on Monday morning. It was so bad, visibility went below 5 miles. If dense fog continues for two more days, authorities should take emergency measures such as banning waste burning in open and making sure pollution norms are followed at construction sites,” said Niranjan Raje, former member of Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority ( ).
 
 About 15 days ago, the Supreme Court held the need of notifying a graded response system suggested by the SC-appointed EPCA, if PM2.5 concentration touches the 300 mark and PM10 hits the 500 mark continuously for two days. 
 
 
