CUTTACK: Four days after a four-year-old was crushed to death under a tractor's wheels in the  , the   (CMC) and   have announced that they will jointly launch a   plying illegally in the city from the coming week.
Tractors without proper commercial licenses, insurance papers, or fitness certificates will not be allowed to ply in the city.
 
 The driving licenses of tractor drivers will also be scrutinized with extra care. Along with tractors owned by the CMC, private tractors plying in the city will also be checked thoroughly Monday onwards.
 
 The move comes close on the heels of the child's death that resulted in locals torching the tractor (which was engaged by CMC for lifting garbage).
 They also pelted stones at police personnel. Police, however, said the tractor involved in the accident had proper documents.
 
 The traffic management committee, formed by the   to resolve Cuttack's traffic problems, has directed the CMC and traffic personnel to keep a strict eye on tractors in the city to avoid reruns of such mishaps.
 
 "Many construction companies, construction material sellers and contractors hired by government agencies use tractors for commercial purposes without proper license and insurance. Such illegal vehicles not only create traffic congestions but if such illegal tractors commit any accident, the victims do not get any insurance benefit either," said a senior traffic personnel.
 
 Traffic ACP, P K Dalai said strict action will be initiated against the violators. "Along with issuing challans, we will also seize the vehicles if they fail to produce necessary documents. Drivers found driving tractors without license will not be spared either," said Dalai.
 
 Meanwhile, CMC commissioner Gyana Das has claimed that agencies working for the civic body have been directed only engage legal tractors.
 "The CMC owns 24 tractors and we have valid documents for all the vehicles. But agencies engaged by CMC in solid waste management and other civic works may be using illegal tractors. We have issued advisories to all our agencies urging them not to use vehicles without proper license," said Das.
 
