Nine-year-old Hani HR would rather be out in the open than spend her   watching TV or  . But a few weeks ago, when she went out to play with her friends in the   here, within 10 minutes Hani was back, looking for her mum. She wanted to know why it was “so hot that she couldn’t even open her eyes”!

 “She wanted to know why it was so hot. ‘Can’t we do something to bring the temperature down?’ I listened to her questions patiently and then told her that it was hot because we cut trees, and the forests are vanishing,” said Pavithra Rathan, who tried her best to explain to her daughter, a student of St Agnes School, why it kept getting hotter each year.
 
 But far from appeasing her, the answer only raised more questions. “That day, her questions were never-ending. ‘Don’t people understand that we should not cut trees?’
 
 It was difficult for me to convince her, but I went on to tell her that people do so to build houses and buildings so that offices can function. And to that she came up with a quick solution: ‘we will plant the trees that they cut,” she said.
 
 The conversation went on for long. Hani was keen on planting trees in the house. The family, which comes from Hosakere village in Chikkamagaluru district, lived in a rented house, and Pavithra had to explain to her daughter that since they live in a rented house, it was not possible for them to plant trees here without the owner’s permission.
 
 Hani then thought of reaching out to people who lived in their own house, and were allowed to do their own planting. She was even willing to spend her pocket money for plants to be bought from the nursery. Since it was difficult for her to do everything alone, she decided to include her friends too. Her parents, Pavithra and Rathan Kumar, were happy to help her.
 
 Pavithra said: “I did not want to discourage her. I told her that I will support her in her project and be with her. I got in touch with Reshma Shetty whose daughter is Hani’s batchmate in their dance class. They soon had a team of students, including Athisha Shetty, Krishiv Shetty, Calvin and Jithesh.”
 
 Reshma and Pavithra supported the children in their project. They went to a nearby nursery and picked up about 28   of neem, pomegranate, drumstick and others. But before they headed out, the parents had told the children not to feel disappointed in case people refused to take these saplings.
 
 They first prepared a chart to explain how important trees were for the planet, and a good life. The idea was to explain the initiative and then hand out the saplings.
 
 They received a mixed response. At a few places, they planted the saplings themselves while in others, they handed over the plants and left. Some did not want to take the saplings at all, while a few others were charmed by the children’s initiative.
 
 Many assumed it was a school project. Reshma and Pavithra watched the children from a distance and helped them to carry the saplings from door to door. At the end of it, the kids were very happy because their experiment was a success. The children not just planned and implementing the project they even pooled in their pocket money to buy the plants.
 
 Now encouraged by the success of the project, Hani is already planning for the next year. She wants people to stop using plastic and ensure that their neighbourhood is clean.
 
 And if her persuasion skills are anything to go by, perhaps the city will be a better place because of her.
 
 
 
 
