PUNE: A   in the first week of this month for   posing as a doctor.

 A diploma in medical laboratory technology, Kailas Bothe was running an independent pathology lab and signing patients’ reports as a doctor. He is the 24th   found in the city since 2013.
 
 Sandip Dhende, medical officer with the   (PMC), lodged a complaint in this regard. Bothe was charged under the relevant sections of the Maharashtra Medical Practitioners Act, 1961.
 
 “Bothe was posing as a doctor without holding a medical degree and requisite registration from the medical council. He was signing pathology reports as a doctor and had big board with the prefix doctor before his name. We had warned him not to mislead people by posing as a doctor after we received an anonymous complaint against him. But he did not pay heed. So, we filed complaint against him with Chandannagar police on January 7,” said Dhende.
 
 Senior inspector Anil Patrudkar of the Chandannagar police said, “We had arrested Bothe on January 7 soon after we received the complaint. He was later released on bail.”
 
 A survey conducted by the PMC’s health department revealed that a sizeable number of quacks were misleading people mostly living in the slum areas. The survey carried out to identify the bogus doctors practising in the city covered 850 general practitioners, mainly operating in and around slums.
 
 Most quacks identified so far were practising in Hadapsar, Yerawada and Kondhwa areas. The health department has now decided to extend the survey to the other areas.
 
 “Since 2013, we have filed FIRs against 24 bogus doctors, so far. They were from Bopodi, Dhanori, Baner, Hadapsar and Vishrantwadi. Among them, two bogus doctors only had matriculation certificate. Most of the others had degrees in alternative medicines but were practising allopathic medicines. A sizeable number of bogus doctors shut down their clinics on their own and fled from the city after our health officials intensified surveillance,” said Vaishali Jadhav, the assistant medical officer of health (AMoH), PMC, and in charge of the anti-bogus doctors’ cell at PMC.
 
