HYDERABAD:   cutting in the city will be banned till the end of  , with agencies being permitted in specific cases only based on the necessity. The government agencies have also decided to rectify 97 water stagnation points that cause flooding on the main roads.

 These decisions were taken at the city convergence meeting held at the   on Monday. The meeting was attended by officers from GHMC, Hyderabad Metro Water Supply and Sewerage Board, police department, RTC, and collectors of Hyderabad, Ranga Reddy and Medchal districts.
 
 Water Board managing director Dana Kishore informed the officials that about 1,200 km have been dug up so far for laying of water supply lines under Hudco project in the peripheral circles of the GHMC. Of this, about 300 km roads have already been restored. He said a circle-wise plan has been prepared to restore 700 km by the end of May 2017, with special focus on Malkajgiri, Quthbullapur and Alwal circles.
 
 GHMC officials said that 97 water stagnation points have been identified and details of what has been done to fix them — such as laying of cement paver blocks and dewatering arrangements — would be uploaded on the GHMC website soon.
 
 Some officials suggested that joint inspections by GHMC and the police should be done on hotels to ensure their cooperation with various works. It was decided that the selection of hotels should be done by way of lots instead of individual discretion in order to avoid criticism of discrimination.
 
 Hyderabad Metro Rail managing director NVS Reddy said that the metro corridor beautification has been taken up along the medians. He urged all departments to identify private individuals to take up the responsibility of maintaining road medians with the right of one advertisement hoarding for every 20 metres.
 
 GHMC commissioner B Janardhan Reddy said that 399 acres in 97 locations have been identified for the two bedroom housing scheme. Of them, tenders for 46 locations have been finalized. Also, they will take up a special drive to put an end to the child beggar menace.
 
 It was also decided to get prepared for the monsoon by putting the disaster management wing on high alert. All departments have to appoint nodal officers by pooling resources and also bring about awareness among the people on using dial 100 as integrated emergency call and to share the costs proportionately. 
 
 The departments have decided to hold a convergence meeting twice every month instead of once a month till the monsoon ends. The next meeting will be hosted by the Water Board.
 
