NAGPUR: Union minister Nitin   on Sunday gave his assurances to bring 40% of cultivable   under   in Maharashtra by the end of the BJP state government’s term. The minister was speaking during the former state minister Shobha Fadnavis’s book launch at Deshpande Hall. 

 “Prime Minister Narendra Modi and I have decided to allocate Rs75,000 crores to fund irrigation projects in the country. Out of this Rs6,000 crores has been approved as my budget,” said Gadkari.
 
 Having received the additional charge of the union water resource ministry on September 3, Gadkari is now eying to restart dormant irrigation projects in the state. He told state’s energy minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule, who was also present in the programme, to submit a proposal so that funds can be made available.
 
 Gadkari told Bawankhule to provide him with a list of all irrigation projects which are incomplete within eight days so that funds can be allocated. He also requested the state government to provide electric pumps to  . “The government need not worry about funds, what is important is that water is made available to the farmers.”
 
 Gadkari took potshots at the previous Congress led UPA government over the alleged Rs70,000 crore Air India scam. “People who talk about welfare of farmers purchased aircraft worth Rs70,000 crores. Imagine the difference that money would have made if it were used to fund irrigation.”
 
 Gadakri encouraged drip irrigation technique and assured that this would increase agricultural produce by one and a half times. “This will help achieve the intended irrigation target of 40%. If we achieve this farmers will not be compelled to commit suicide,” he added. 
 
 The book titled ‘Dhandola Sheticha’, talks about the plight of farmers in the country. “The book is based on my research of the agricultural sector in the past few years,” Fadnavis said. 
 
 According to Fadnavis, farm loan waivers can only marginally reducing the financial burden on farmers. “There are many issues because of which the farmers commit suicide. But the most prominent one is lack of irrigation facilities.”
 
 
