NEW DELHI: Former   president   found an unlikely ally in former Indian skipper   who tweeted saying Indian cricket needs him back. Thakur had wished Ganguly on his birthday on Sunday (8th July) and in reply, Ganguly wrote this: “dear Anurag thank u so much ... need u back in indian cricket ...”. 

  
  
 
  
  
 
 
 Coming down heavily on the defiant BCCI brass, the   had removed Thakur and Ajay Shirke as president and secretary of the BCCI for "obstructing" and "impeding" its directions for overhauling governance in the cricket body and appointed a committee of administrators to oversee BCCI's functions in January earlier this year. 
 
 Ever since, the BCCI’s functioning has been supervised by the Supreme Court appointed Committee of Administrators (CoA) while Thakur has been embroiled in a legal tangle after SC had initiated contempt proceedings against the BJP MP from Hamirpur in Himachal Pradesh for filing a false affidavit over writing to the ICC on the issue of autonomy against implementation of Justice Lodha panel's reform recommendations.
 
 Thakur has been asked by SC to tender afresh an "unequivocal" and "categorical" apology before it in a contempt case initiated against him. A bench comprising Justices Dipak Misra, AM Khanwilkar and DY Chandrachud said it was not going to consider the earlier affidavit of apology filed by Thakur and asked him to file a "one-page short affidavit" tendering unconditional apology.
 
 Facing contempt proceedings Thakur told SC that the 'contemptuous" portion of his October 15, 2016 affidavit was dictated by ICC chief Shashank Manohar. 
 
 Clearing the impression created before the court that he had attempted to step around the court's decision, Thakur narrated the sequence of events leading to filing of the October 15 affidavit. "During my visit to Cape Town, South Africa, on October 12, 2016 for an ICC meeting, I brought the order of the SC to the notice of ICC chairman Shashank Manohar and showed Manohar the points and basis on which I was going to depose in the affidavit before the SC with a view to ensure that the discussion that had taken place was accurately placed on record before the court," Thakur said in his affidavit filed through advocate Abhinav Mukherji.
 
 "Thereafter, Manohar personally dictated a portion of my affidavit. The dictation was taken down by my executive assistant Krishna Pophale in my presence. At the end of this dictation, Manohar had also remarked that it was natural for me (Thakur) to ask him (Manohar) for a clarification as I was not a lawyer and did not understand the nitty gritties of the issue. Accordingly, para 3 and 4 of my affidavit dated October 15, 2016 filed before the Supreme Court are based on the dictation of Manohar," he added.
 
 
