QUICK ACTION

 Himachal Pradesh-based brain dead patient’s wife donates his organs, saves four lives
 
 Liver and heart from PGI reach airport through a green corridor in 20 minutes 
 
 The route taken from PGI to Madhya Marg, Sector 26 to Industrial Area roundabout, Phase XI, Mohali and then the international airport 
 
 Organs airlifted to save two lives in two-Delhi based hospitals
 
 Heart harvested and transported at 7.20am from PGI, transplanted at Medanta Hospital in New Delhi at 11.30am
 
 PIC/x/hires/NOTTO
 
 Times News Network
 
 Chandigarh: Liver and heart of a brain dead patient were transported from PGI to the Chandigarh international airport through a green corridor in 20 minutes and airlifted to New Delhi, gifting two patients a new lease of life. On the other hand, the man’s kidneys helped save the lives of two patients at PGI.
 
 Pradeep, a resident of Kangra in Himachal Pradesh, was riding on his cycle when he fell into a gorge in his hometown on March 17. Tanda Medical College referred him to PGI, where he succumbed to his injuries on March 18. His wife Veena Devi consented for   donation. 
 
 As there were no matching recipients for heart and liver in PGI, Regional Organ and Tissue Transplant Organisation (Rotto) approached National Organ and Tissue Transplant Organisation (Notto) in Delhi. Accordingly, the retrieved heart was allocated to Medanta Hopital and liver to All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in New Delhi for matching recipients.
 
 Dr Vipin Koushal, nodal officer, Rotto, PGI, said, “With Notto’s quick intervention, the heart was airlifted through a special flight for Medanta in Delhi. Later, liver was sent through another flight to AIIMS. In both the cases, green corridors were created from PGI to international airport with active intervention of PGI security liaisoning with UT administration and police. As a result, only 20 minutes were taken to cover the distance despite the morning rush.” In the normal course, it takes almost 45 minutes to 1 hour to travel this distance.
 
 Veena Devi, wife of the victim, said, “My children have lost their father at an age when they needed him the most. Hope my decision for organ donation helps some children turn lucky and save their parents. This will be our biggest tribute to him.” 
 
 Sukhdev Raj, brother of Pradeep, said, “We are devastated by the loss of our elder brother. No words can convey the remorse. With organ donation, at least we will be able to save someone else the pain and trauma of losing their near and dear ones. He always used to be the first to help others and even in his death, his legacy of giving and helping continues.”
 
 
