COIMBATORE: A   in Podanur has spent nearly 85,000 to fight the   in their area in the past one year. Civic apathy forced the residents to take this step as the officials did not respond to their grievances. They purchased a   worth 25,000 and also spend 5000 every month for on medicines and kerosene. 

 "We had no other choice, but to buy the machine as the officials failed to respond. We tried talking to sanitary officers and junior engineers. Every time they assure us of taking action, but not a single step was taken to resolve the issue. So the association members pooled in money and decided to purchase the fogging machine," said S Sreekala, secretary of Sai Nagar residents' welfare association in Podanur. "But otherwise, no action is being taken to curb the mosquito menace," she said. There are more than 500 families located in this area. Sreekala said that since the Noyyal river is mixed with sewage and passes through their area, the mosquito menace is a major issue to the residents. "For several years, we followed up on the complaint and kept calling the officials. So, last year, we decided to buy the fogging machine on our own. We even discussed it with some of the sanitary officials. It cost us nearly 25,000," said Sreekala. In addition, monthly twice, the residents bought medicines, kerosene and other necessities on their own. "It costs us nearly 2500 for one fogging operation. The men in our locality do it on Sundays," she said. 
 
 The residents said official apathy did not stop just there. Nasser, the president of the association said, "Be it street light repair work, cleaning of garbage, or even switching on the street lights in the evening, we have to do it all on our own." 
 
 "Since our area was added to the civic body later, we do not get proper response from officials. While they always listen to our complaints, they hardly take any steps. Since the members of the association are very active and are willing to contribute funds for development activities in the area, we manage ourselves," he added.
 
 Meanwhile, the sanitary officer of the area, M V Andiappan said, "We conduct the fogging operation every day in the area. We have records to prove it. We mix half a litre of the medicine with nine litres of diesel and two litres of petrol. It can be used for 40 minutes. We conduct door-to-door collection regularly and maintain the area well," he said. He added that even a few weeks back, they conducted an operation in the area for dengue awareness.
 
 City's health officer,   said, "Whenever we get complaints, we immediately take action. They must be doing it on personal interest," When contacted, the corporation commissioner,   was unavailable for comment.
 
