MUMBAI: A seven-member team from Parel’s   on Thursday examined the 22-year-old woman, who in the 23rd week of pregnancy has moved the Supreme Court seeking permission to abort the foetus that has a brain deformity. The report has already been finalized and sent for the court’s hearing on Friday, hospital authorities said. 

 The woman underwent a   and a psychological evaluation at the hospital on Thursday. The panel, chaired by dean Dr Avinash Supe, included obstetricians, a psychiatrist and a radiologist. They had a detailed discussion with both the husband and wife. The couple from Dombivli have been married for a year and were eagerly waiting for their first child, when they learnt about the anomaly called anencephaly (parts of the brain and skull are not adequately developed) during a routine ultrasound in the 21st week.
 
 She, however, could not undergo an abortion as the Medical Termination of Pregnancy (MTP), Act does not allow it beyond 20 weeks unless the mother’s life is in immediate danger. The husband, who works as a typist in Fort, told the doctors that the diagnosis of their unborn child had put them under immense anxiety. The husband narrated how they felt helpless and tangled in a complicated situation as the law denied his wife the right to abort. The woman, who weighed mere 37kilos, had a tough first few weeks of pregnancy with recurrent episodes of vomiting.
 
 The couple approached several doctors before meeting gynaecologist Dr  , who then sought the help of Dr Nikhil Datar to look for a legal recourse. Both of them decided on abortion after learning from doctors that babies with this deformity seldom survive beyond a few minutes or hours after birth. Their counsel, Colin Gonsalves, said the case would come up for hearing on Friday. “We are expecting a quick verdict looking at the urgency of the situation,” he said.
 
 Pikale said that if the verdict is in couple’s favour, it would ideal for the woman to undergo the abortion by the weekend. “Termination of pregnancy can get complicated as the baby grows,” she said.
 
 
