CHANDIGARH: World   Day (WOHD) is celebrated every year on March 20 internationally, focusing on the benefits of a healthy mouth and promoting worldwide awareness on oral hygiene. WOHD also offers the oral health fraternity a platform to take action and help reduce the overall disease burden.

 To mark the occasion, PGIMER, Chandigarh, taking the lead role planned various activities and held a talk on ‘Oral Health – Challenges and Strategies’ at the institute on Sunday to discuss promotion of oral health and increase penetration of oral health care into rural areas. On this occasion Dr K Gauba, head of the oral health sciences centre (OHSC), highlighted the need to integrate oral health with other healthcare programs to reach the rural community in a cost effective way. He stressed that poor oral health affects not only the ability to eat, drink and socialize but also has a proven effect on diseases like brain stroke, low birth weight babies, cardiovascular disease, diabetes, arthritis and many others.
 
 As part of the community outreach services, oral health check-up and oral cancer screening were conducted at a mega health camp organized at   village, Ropar, with support of Sat Sahib Trust, Punjab. OHSC assistant professor Dr Arpit Gupta and senior resident Dr Nishant interacted with the general public and told them about various diseases of the oral cavity and their prevention.
 
 For visually impaired children, oral health awareness and check-up camp was organized at institute for the blind in collaboration with Indian Dental Association (IDA) Chandigarh. IDA Chandigarh president Dr   and secretary Dr Sachin Rai stressed that oral health among children with special needs is compromised and requires special attention. Dr K Gauba highlighted that PGI is equipped with world class facilities and is committed towards providing oral health care services to all the children with special needs. The department’s assistant professor Dr Manoj Kumar and senior resident Dr Rahul Morankar also gave preventive education and demonstrated correct way of brushing teeth for visually impaired children through audio tactile performance method.
 
 To reach the masses, awareness programs were carried out through different radio stations in the city. Dr K Gauba emphasized on proper brushing of teeth with fluoridated toothpaste and rationalizing sugar consumption. Dr Arpit Gupta and Dr Nishant also clarified myths prevalent in the society which prevent people from seeking oral health services. Importance of good oral hygiene among expecting mothers for a healthy child was stressed upon.
 
 
