NEW DELHI: Last February, more than a dozen   were brazenly chased and   by police personnel — even as they ignored the rogue lawyers who had run amuck — at Patiala House courts. Exactly a year later, in a disturbing rerun, journalists covering the clashes at   on Wednesday evening were slapped, punched and kicked by a group of policemen who threatened them, asking them to go away.

 And all this happened right outside Maurice Nagar police station between 6pm and 6.30pm. The fact that around a dozen   — all without nameplates — suddenly attacked the journalists at the same time indicates that somebody ordered the police station area to be cleared. Almost all the protesters had been taken away in buses by then.
 
 TOI correspondent Somreet Bhattacharya and photographer Anindya Chattopadhyay; ‘Times Now’ reporter Priyank and cameraman Mazhar Khan; ‘Hindustan Times’ reporter Ananya Bhardwaj; a reporter and photographer from news portal ‘Quint’; and several other journalists were beaten up by these cops who even snatched phones and cameras and deleted photos and videos. A TOI intern making a video was also thrashed.
 
 The area comes under special commissioner (law and order), north zone, S B K Singh, who was not on the spot. The joint commissioner in-charge is Virender Chahal and the DCP is Jatin Narwal. Narwal was the DCP of New Delhi (district) when the assault on journalists took place at Patiala House.
 
 “First they tried to snatch my camera. When I protested, two-three cops suddenly kicked me from behind,” said Chattopadhyay. “When I said I was from the press, they got even more agitated and started screaming ‘maaro isko’,” he recalled. Another photographer,  , from a Hindi daily was beaten up as well as he tried to save Anindya.
 
 “I was standing on the left side of the gate of Maurice Nagar police station when three-four cops snatched my phone and kicked me from behind,” recalled Bhattacharya. “They tried to push me out of the way. When I mentioned I was from the media, they abused me and my organisation. Luckily, an inspector from the area recognised me and threw his arms around me. He had to scream at the cops to send them away.”
 
 ‘Hindustan Times’ reporter Ananya was heckled and her phone snatched. ‘Quint’ reporter Anant Prakash said: “They caught me twice and pushed me towards the bus despite my screaming that I was from the media. My cameraman,  , was badly beaten up. He suffered injuries on his head. They snatched and threw my phone and cordless mic.”
 
 Reacting to the incident, Delhi Police spokesperson Dependra Pathak, said: “Inappropriate and unprofessional action on part of certain policemen who were on law and order duty will be inquired into and strict action taken if anyone found guilty.” Joint commissioner Chahal echoed Pathak’s views. 
 
 Enquiry will be conducted by an additional DCP.
 
 
