KANPUR: A joint team of   and its crime branch on Wednesday arrested three persons on charge of circulating   of Rs 2,000 denomination and claimed to have recovered Rs 7.64 lakh in fake currency from their possession. It is estimated that the accused had circulated fake currency worth over Rs 80 lakh in the region.

 Police have registered a case and further investigations were underway. “The police raided the house of one Samrendra Sachan alias Shubham, a resident of Meerpur in Pukhrayan under the limits of Bhognipur Kotwali police station in Kanpur Dehat on Wednesday and seized Rs 7.64 lakh in fake currency,” SP Kanpur Dehat Prabhakar Chowdhary told TOI.
 
 “Besides Samrendra, the police also arrested his two aides Ashish Kumar and Prasoon Sachan in the raid. Total number of 382 notes of Rs 2,000 denomination amounting to Rs 7.64 lakh, and seven semi-printed notes of Rs 2,000 denomination and one original note of Rs 2,000 denomination were recovered from the arrested persons,” the SP said.
 
 Two printers, two scanners, one laptop, five bottles of refill ink, a paper cutter and a scale, one adopter, a computer mouse and five mobile phones were recovered from their possession, the SP added.
 
 Police sources claimed that the accused had pumped in fake notes of Rs 2,000 denomination amounting to over Rs 80 lakh in the region.
 
 Police said the breakthrough came on the basis of a tip-off. “The note is a colour copy of an original Rs 2,000 currency. The printing quality is quite good as compared to the quality of the paper,” said Bhoginipur CO Dinesh Singh Yadav.
 
 “A case has been registered at the Bhognipur Kotwali and investigation is underway. During interrogation, the three accused told the police that they used to print and supply fake currency notes in markets in Kanpur Dehat and Kanpur Nagar besides other neighbouring areas in the region,” Chowdhary said. 
 
 Samrendra used to run Jansewa Kendra while Ashish prepared application of visitors on computer in Bhognipur tehsil, he added.
 
 “They have been  , 489 A, 489 B, 489 C, 489 D of IPC and sent to jail,” the SP said adding, efforts are on to nab other accomplices of the accused.
 
