MUMBAI: After putting up a long reluctance in handing over a   (BKC) plot to the railways for construction of a terminus for the Mumbai-Ahmedabad  , the state government has finally relented, albeit with some riders. In return, Rs 350 core, including the plot cost — Rs 125 crore, will be adjusted in the state’s share of project expense. 

 A senior official in the chief minister’s office said that the state wants   (JICA) to fund the Mumbai-Nagpur bullet train project in the same way that it is funding the Mumbai-Ahmedabad project and hence, it has agreed to hand over the BKC plot.
 
 “Of the total Rs 5,000 crore equity contribution of the state government, around Rs 350 crore will be adjusted in lieu of the land that the state is parting with,” a senior official said. “Now, we will not have to release the initial investment amount of Rs 125 crore,” he added.
 
 Estimated to cost nearly Rs 1.08 lakh crore, over 80% of funding for the project will come in the form of a loan from Japan. For rest of the cost, 50% share will be borne by the railway ministry and 25 % each by Maharashtra and Gujarat. A special purpose vehicle to be set up for the construction of the project will have a share capital of Rs 20,000 crore, of which the state’s share will be Rs 5,000 crore.
 
 After handing over the BKC plot, the state is now planning to seek a loan from the   (JICA) at a low rate of interest to fund CM’s pet and ambitious Mumbai-Nagpur bullet train project. JICA has sanctioned a Rs 88,000 crore loan to the Centre at 0.1% interest rate for the Ahmedabad project. “The railway ministry has to conduct a feasibility survey before giving an approval to the project,” said an official from the chief minister’s office.
 
 The state, in a government resolution issued on Tuesday regarding handing over of the BKC plot, has also put forth certain other conditions before the railways like the construction of the terminus should not affect the   plan and the latter’s economic viability. The state has also said it wants the railways to ensure that the entry and exit of the bullet train station and ventilation system should be constructed within the 0.9 ha plot that has been allocated by the MMRDA. The state has also recommended that the railways should first explore the viability of an alternate site which the sttae has suggested in BKC itself. However, if the alternate site is not viable, then only the 0.9 ha in BKC will be considered.
 
 The ground-breaking ceremony for the project will take place in Ahmedabad in the presence of PM   and his Japanese counterpart Shinzo Abe on Thursday.
 
 
