NAGPUR: The Nagpur bench of   on Wednesday issued notice to Maharashtra tribal development minister   in a plea alleging corrupt practices at Nashik-based Maharashtra State Cooperative Tribal Development Corporation Limited (MSCTDCL). State   secretary, commissioner of cooperation and registrar of cooperative societies are other respondents in the case.

 A division bench of justice   and justice Swapna Joshi asked the respondents to reply before February 7.
 
 Meenakshi Watti and 12 other petitioners had approached the judiciary through counsel  , praying for quashing and setting aside decision taken by respondents during a meeting on December 9, 2015, under Savara’s chairmanship. They also demanded quashing or staying government resolution (GR) of June 29 last year, issued by Tribal Development Department. All petitioners, hailing from various parts of the state, are directors at MSCTDCL, after being elected in February 2010 polls.
 
 The petitioners raised objections on the December 9, 2015, meeting under Savara, who is also chairman of MSCTDCL, where a decision was taken to reduce number of directors to 21 and also other consequential changes in corporation’s Board of Directors. They also alleged that recruitments were made for filling up 758 vacancies in 2015, wherein corruption of over Rs300 crore took place.
 
 They claimed that the minister was taking advantage of his position by permitting many corrupt activities in the affairs of MSCTDCL, leading to huge losses to the state exchequer. The petitioners made a representation to the minister on September 28, 2016, pointing out various corrupt activities by employees of MSCTDCL. They requested Savara to take legal action against corrupt officials.
 
 In spite of the settled legal position, the respondents are seeking to amend the bylaws of the corporation, which is detrimental to the interest of the members. They argued that the MSCTDCL members are tribals and no other person from other categories can occupy the posts.
 
