AURANGABAD: The Aurangabad bench of the   has rejected the bail application of a youth who was arrested for allegedly murdering his sister-in-law in Ambad taluka of Jalna district on January 2.

 Vilas   (19) was arrested on the charges of killing Sumitra, wife of his cousin who is Ambad’s agriculture produce market committee chairman  . 
 
 According to the police, the suspect has confessed to the crime, saying that on the day of the incident, he entered the house and found Sumitra alone, following which he tried to rape her. The woman strongly resisted his attempt and threatened of complaining about his advances to her husband and family members.
 
 Vilas profusely apologized and promised that he would not indulge in such acts in the future. However, he was scared that she would tell her husband and other family members about the incident. He subsequently, sneaked into Satish’s bedroom, picked up a revolver that was kept in a drawer and shot the woman in the head. He then returned to the bedroom, cleaned the revolver of his fingerprints and left the place through the backdoor.
 
 Following a complaint by Sumitra’s father,  , the police registered an offence and their investigation led to the arrest of Vilas on January 5, based on the inputs provided by the neighbours and the theory of ‘last seen’. 
 
 When the suspect approached the high court recently for bail, Sumitra’s father too filed an application through lawyer   opposing his application. 
 
 Salunke argued that the crime that Vilas has committed a crime of serious nature and that his release on bail might hamper investigations and pressurise witnesses. Tarak also said that Sumitra’s children face threats from Vilas.
 
 “Following the arguments, Justice T V Nalawade expressed that ‘the court is not inclined to grant relief of bail’. Vilas’ lawyer, on instructions, told the court that he would withdraw the application. Subsequently, Nalawade disposed of the application on March 22 as withdrawn,” said Salunke. 
 
