NOIDA/GHAZIABAD: The trend of urban voters keeping away from booths but rural seats witnessing higher turnouts has repeated itself in NCR this time too.

 The largest urban centre —Noida assembly constituency—recorded the lowest turnout of 49.02% on Saturday while Jewar, essentially a rural constituency, recorded the highest voter turout— 66.43%. 
 
 The second urban centre in the region, Sahibabad in Ghaziabad, too recorded a lower turnout of 50.1%. According to initial estimates, the average overall   stood at 59.1% in Gautam Budh Nagar. In Ghaziabad, it was 58.3%.
 
 Officials said polling remained peaceful in the two districts. Except a few minor glitches in the functioning of EVMs in some booths, which were rectified soon, the polling remained a smooth affair. The overall voting percentage in western UP stood at 64.22%, sources said.
 
 In Noida, Greater Noida and Dadri, young voters primarily cast their vote for ‘development.’ “I want a political party to come to power which will not try and gain votes through caste and religion, but instead keep the promises they make. Women’s safety and a corruption-free society are on my priority list,” said Iffat Khan, a student from Greater Noida. In Indirapuram and Kaushambi, urban voters cast their votes on the agenda of development and law & order.
 
 A sizeable section of voters who exercised their franchise at DPS-Indirapuram and Cambridge School in Shakti Khand 4, claimed to have voted for BJP. “There is a need for change in UP after all these years of misrule by the two regional parties -- SP and BSP. On the law and order front, the SP’s performance has been far from satisfactory. Its leaders have gone as far as justifying incidents of rape,” said Sanjeev Jain, a resident of Indirapuram.
 
 Voters in rural areas of Sahibabad assembly constituency displayed a tilt towards the SP-Congress alliance which has fielded Amarpal Sharma, the sitting MLA. In Lokpriya Vihar of Khoda, which has a sizeable Muslim population, Sharma seems to have an upper hand.
 
 “Sharma has this impeccable knack of personally attending to any voter who faces a problem. It has also helped our cause that he has joined hands with the SP and Congress, the parties which we support,” said Tauseef, a student of Deen Dayal College in Delhi. The BSP, which has been trying to cash in on a Dalit-Muslim combination, seemed to have cut into the vote bank of SP and Congress in certain pockets. 
 
 Mobin, a labourer from the Bhatta village of Jewar constituency said he voted for Mayawati because he does not have any expectations from other parties. “Demonetization affected our work. But we don’t think that we should vote for any other party whether it is the BJP or the SP,” he said..
 
 
