CHENNAI: The   has been thrust upon the   at a time it is least prepared to face it. The ruling party has been winning by-elections in the state for ages, but the recent split is posing challenges to the  .

 At R K Nagar, the party is vertically divided with former RK Nagar MLA P Vetrivel leading the   faction and AIADMK presidium chairman and former RK Nagar MLA E Madusudanan leading the OPS faction.
 
 With the Election Commission yet to decide on the fate of V K Sasikala’s and T T V Dinakaran’s appointments as party general secretary and deputy general secretary respectively, it is not yet clear as to whether the ruling party would be able to use the ‘two leaves’ symbol of the AIADMK in this by-election. As per the party by-laws, the general secretary has to authorize use of the party symbol.
 
 “Election Commission’s decision on Sasikala is crucial in this by-election. As such two set of nominations will be filed by factions seeking the ‘two leaves’ symbol. If the EC nullifies Sasikala’s nomination, the issue becomes more complex and the returning officer of the constituency will have to decide to whom the two leaves should be allotted. But the story does not end there. Both the factions could move courts,” said former chief election commissioner N Gopalaswami.
 
 The faction led by O Panneerselvam is all set to enter the fray. A senior leader in the OPS faction said, “We will certainly contest, but there is no urgency to announce our candidate now”. It is to be seen whether the public support OPS attracted in the wake of his revolt against Sasikala would translate into votes. This by-election will also decide whether anti-Sasikala sentiments are felt strongly among the masses or whether it is just a creation of the social media.
 
 Meanwhile, Jayalalithaa’s niece Deepa announced on Thursday that she would enter the fray. So far, she has visited the constituency thrice after Jayalalithaa’s death.
 
 The opposition DMK is keenly watching the infighting in the ruling party to draw mileage out of it. Since the constituency was formed in 1967, the party has won 5 times from R K Nagar. “We are opposed to the DMK fielding Shimla Muthuchozhan, our candidate in the 2016 assembly election. The party has not won in   since 2001,” a prominent DMK leader in North Chennai told TOI.
 
 Meanwhile, Dinakaran has reconstituted the AIADMK’s high-level committee to shortlist the candidate for the by-election. Sasikala heads the panel and other members are Dinakaran, party presidium chairman and school education minister K A Sengottaiyan, and former minister Valarmathi. “The party is expected to field a local leader,” said a senior leader.
 
 
