VISAKHAPATNAM: The city police are getting more and more complaints through Facebook, WhatsApp, Abhayam App, i-Clik, and i-Report and cops attributed to it to the increase in smart phone users in the city.

 Information available from both the   and   (VRP) reveal that 198 complaints have been received through WhatsApp so far from July 2016. 
 
 Police officials said the complaints received through these social platforms are given utmost priority and resolved within a short period. They said nearly 10-15 per cent of the complaints were considered for registering FIRs, while some complaints were closed for being fake. Of the FIR cases, more than 95 per cent have been addressed till now.
 
 Speaking to TOI, rural SP   said, “Our WhatsApp number has received good response. Nearly 90 complaints have received through the number since July last year. We have also received cases related to ganja trade and belt shops among other offences.”
 
 Ch  , circle inspector and in-charge of the online complaints, said, “The response has been good from the citizens. Not only from the city, we have received WhatsApp complaints from other countries as well against cases concerning the city limits. Recently, we received a complaint from Dubai regarding a case in the city.”
 
 The police commissionerate’s WhatsApp number was launched in January 1 this year and since then it received 108 complaints. Of them, 84 complaints have been solved and 14 complaints are considered serious offences and FIRs have also been registered. Their Facebook page have received only two complaints, while 78 complaints have been received through email. 
 
 The Abhayam App was launched in January 20, 2015, and the cops received 7,499 phone calls from across the state. Of them, 7,222 calls were ignored as test calls, 277 calls were considered as real calls, and 55 calls were considered for FIR registration.
 
 I-Report received 404 complaints with videos and photos of which 390 complaints were considered as test calls and 14 as real calls. FIR was registered for only eight calls. 
 
 The I-Clik received 1,008 complaints of which 382 were considered for FIR and 611 complaints were closed. 
 
