AURANGABAD: The   has issued a notice to the state government, following an application by an accused owing allegiance to the Islamic State (IS) terror organisation stating that he was never produced in an appropriate court.

 Naser bin Abu Bakr Yafai (34), who was arrested by the   (ATS) from Parbhani district last year, cited “Generalia Specialibus Non Derogant“, a Latin term meaning special laws will prevail over general laws.
 
 Yafai, through his lawyer T W Pathan, submitted that a judicial magistrate first class (JMFC) has no jurisdiction to carry out remand proceedings, which was done in his case. 
 
 “The offence committed under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967 is a scheduled offence under the National Investigation Agency Act, 2008. The JMFC neither has jurisdiction nor is a duly constituted court formed by the central government or the state government under the NIA Act. Hence, the JMFC taking cognizance and acceptance of the chargesheet in a scheduled offence is in violation of the special law, which supersedes all the general laws of the land,” the application states. 
 
 Taking cognizance of his application, a division bench comprising justices S S Shinde and   on Thursday issued the notice to the state government, returnable on February 24.
 
 The ATS claimed to have busted the Parbhani module of the IS by arresting Yafai on July 14. Within days of his arrest, the ATS nabbed four of his accomplices. The module was allegedly planning to execute blasts on the directives of their IS handlers abroad. 
 
 An FIR in this regard was registered with the Nanded unit of the ATS and Yafai was charged with offences under various sections of the Indian Penal Code, including criminal conspiracy and using as genuine a forged document or electronic record. 
 
 In addition to this, Yafai was slapped with sections of the explosives act and the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act 2008, which is a scheduled offence. A 3,632 page chargesheet was filed by the ATS in the case in October 2016 before the chief judicial magistrate, Nanded.
 
 The accused contested that the FIR was registered at Nanded unit rather than at the ATS police station in Mumbai. He further contested that the express provisions of the National Investigation Agency Act have been violated by obtaining his remands from the magistrate’s court, which lacks the jurisdiction in scheduled offence and said that the proceedings in his case have been carried out by an assistant public prosecutor (PP) rather than a special PP.
 
 Citing the same reasons, the accused had moved the additional sessions judge and special judge ATS, Nanded and prayed for his release on October 21 last year. The application was, however, rejected on November 14, 2016.
 
 
