CHENNAI: A   circular on the review of   textbooks has led to the apprehension that it will be compulsory for schools in the state to use these books for all classes.

 While there is no such compulsion so far, schools say it would be impractical to make it mandatory because it is difficult to purchase these books in Chennai.
 
 The fear appears to have spread to schools across the state. There are a number of reasons for schools not being able to get these books. One is that there is no depot for the books in the state and schools here are dependent on the depot in Bengaluru.
 
 Delayed deliveries of some of these books have also made schools rely on private publishers. Most   are delivered only in July whereas private publishers start supplying the books from March or April.
 
 The circular issued by CBSE stated the council will be printing   of books for all classes from I to XII.
 
 A link was added to the CBSE website where schools can place orders for the num ber of books they need. So far, the NCERT books are compulsory only for Classes IX to XII. Even for these books, however, many schools have to order a year in advance.
 
 “We also order one year in advance for the higher classes. Even now, the CBSE affiliation bylaws and also the recent circular do not make NCERT books mandatory . What has been maintained all along is that the content has to be similar to that of NCERT books,“ Bhavans Rajaji Vidyashram principal Ajeeth Prasath Jain said.
 
 Several errors have also been spotted in the NCERT books which have lost out to stiff competition from private publishers in the market trying to have an edge over them, say schools.
 
 “The printing quality isn't great and there have been errors earlier too including language errors. It also has to be made more visually appealing to students,“ said a teacher of a private CBSE school in the city who wished to remain anonymous.
 
 In 2015 too, CBSE had instructed schools to not encourage parents to buy non NCERT books.
 
