PUNE: Scoring 350 batting first without a century by any batsman is not that difficult. But to chase that kind of a target, you need at least one batsman to score a ton. India had two centurions chasing England's 3507 in the first ODI at Gahunje on Sunday. Superb knocks by   (122 off 105b, 8x4s, 4x6s) and local boy   (120 off 76b, 12x4s, 4x6s) ensured that India won by three wickets with 11 balls to spare in front of an almost full house at the Gahunje stadium.

 India replied to England's 26 fours and 11 sixes with 29 fours and 12 sixes as Hardik Pandya scored a composed, unbeaten 40.
 
 India lost four wickets for just 63 on the board by the 12th over. But Pune and Maharashtra's stylish middle-order batsman Jadhav, who has made notable contributions only with the ball in his tiny ODI career, joined in-form Kohli and played a breathtaking knock under the circumstances.
 
 He appeared to have suffered from cramps and had even called the doctor in the 37th over past his second hundred. With runners not allowed in international cricket now, he was egged on by the crowd's chants of “Jadhav..Jadhav” and “Kedar...Kedar”. He hit pacer Jake Ball for two sixes either side of the medical timeout in the 37th over as he was struggling to run.
 
 The asking rate went below six after that inspired display.
 
 The effectiveness of Kedar's shot-making can be gauged by his bigger contribution (102) than Kohli (95) in a 200-run partnership for the fifth wicket in just 24.3 overs.
 
 India's top-four wickets fell in varied ways ­ KL Rahul bowled through the gate,   slashed to third-man, Dhoni mistimed his pull to mid-on and Yuvraj Singh caught behind on the leg side.
 
 But sticking to the T20 brand of batsmanship on a good track, Kohil and Jadhav batted as if nothing had happened. The arc of bat and body shapes that Kohli created while hitting boundaries were out of the top drawer. But Jadhav stole the show with his late cut, slap shots past third-man, beautifully-timed inside-out drives and clean lifts that went into the stands. He literally toyed with the visitors' spinners Moeen Ali and Adil Rashid.
 
 England could not come up with a sustained phase of quality bowling, erring in line, length and strategy in abundance. Their ground fielding was sloppy too.
 
 Earlier, the script of the England innings unfolded like a typical T20 game. A majority of England batsmen threw caution to the wind and were rewarded with a handsome tally, after being put in to bat by Virat Kohli.
 
 Three visitors scored more than 60 (Jason Roy 73, Joe Root 78, Ben Stokes 62) but couldn't convert those knocks into a big one. But no one should complain after the team added 65 runs in the last five overs and 115 in the last 10 overs.
 
 If this was not the extension of T20 match pattern, nothing can be. The innings was sprinkled with many highlight phases, the most notable being 73 runs stand in 5.3 overs for the sixth wicket between Stokes and Moeen Ali (28*).
 
 'Uncultured' shots, or shots which redefine culture, were frequent. Root started with a reverse-sweep four off Jadeja; a reverse and paddle sweep over the 'keeper were attempted frequently .A ball pitched on one side of the wicket was dispatched to the other side of the wicket: sometimes with great skill and sometimes on the weight of the thick, sweet spot of the bat.
 
 Sixes hit by Ben Stokes and Jos Buttler were particularly impressive. They were clean and hit by coming into good positions. They also punched enough power in their shots despite being in off-balance positions at times.
 
 It was Kohli's first match as ODI captain with Dhoni also in the team.
 
