 are so last year. Couples are now hiring professional photographers to capture their   even as they start dating...

 Love has a new ‘shot’ in the arm and there are three people in this relationship. Hang on, don’t shoot the messenger. We are just framing it as it is… Okay, enough with the puns. The fact of the matter is that new couples are now taking professional photographers to capture their perfect moment while out on a date! It can be the second date or the 10th.
 
 American digital media executive Neil Parris proposed to his girlfriend through a 42-picture Instagram story – beginning from their first date pictures to their intimate Facebook chats and finally the question. 
 
 Natasha Kaur, 24, considers falling in love a huge milestone and explains why she hired a professional photographer. “My boyfriend and I wanted to map our romantic journey on camera,” says the jewellery designer. She always chooses a good location for her dates, and has made a ‘Sunday date series’. 
 
 These photographs are a testimony of how falling in love isn’t a hush-hush affair anymore, even in the initial stages of dating. Kaur adds, “It’s about celebrating love in the now, not about whether it will work out in the long run or lead to marriage. I don’t want marriage before I’m 30.” 
 
 
 
 Photographer Antony Pratap has captured quite a few couples in the first few dates. He says, “This generation is quite visual. Youngsters don’t just freeze these moments for posterity; these pictures help them strengthen their chemistry and fall deeper in love.” These ‘loveprints’ are then spread through visual sharing networks like Instagram and Facebook.
 
 Visual validation is the new sincerity. The cynic in you may scoff at the idea but French photographer Maud Chalard has an interesting explanation for this new fascination. “I try to capture the deep feeling of love, and share hope with a generation that thinks love is lost,” she says. Chalard’s idea was to capture the fleeting moments among two people caught up in a world moving at a frenzied pace, where feelings have become the first casualty.
 
 Like Chalard, Bucharest-based photographer Natalia Mindru captures raw expressions of love – like stolen kisses, warm hugs, cosy conversations between lovers in a series titled Iubiri Urbane or Urban Love Stories. Her series is an ode to lovers in a metropolis that rarely stands still enough to notice moments of love or moments that make for beautiful memories.
  
 
 
 Management student Rahul Mehta, 23, who hired a professional to shoot his dates with his girlfriend, says, “Our generation doesn’t believe love can be displayed only when there’s societal or legal sanction attached to it. My girlfriend and I were pretty comfortable shooting some intimate moments, even our first kiss!”
 
 Now, you may ask, how can it be intimate if there’s a third person around, with a camera? Photographer Amrit Vatsa explains, “It’s not as if I’m hired, and I start to click. I wait for the couple to shed their defenses. It takes about a couple of hours to get comfortable, and then I get to see their natural chemistry. By that time, they have also slowly stopped seeing me.”
 
 “I am a lover of love. It’s the only one thing that transcends time and space,” says Maud Chalard, French photographer, who takes pictures of couples in love to find that glimpse of intimacy that makes youngsters feel less cynical about life, love and the world around them. 
 
 
 
 Natalia Mindru’s photo series Iubiri Urbane is an “ode to stolen kisses, kept secrets, and unspoken words shared between lovers in a metropolis that rarely stands still enough to notice”.
 
 
