The first day of the year brings the promise of new beginnings and fresh starts. To mark the day, well-known personalities across the country tell us about some notable and inspiring firsts in their lives.

 
 
  | 28 | Wrestler
 
 I was around 12 when I fought my first dangal. Dangal the movie shows that my first fight was in Rohtak, but it was actually near my village (Balali) in Haryana’s Bhiwani district. Generally, there are three to six opponents to choose from and it is up to the wrestlers or the referee to choose the opponents. I think the referee chose my opponent.
 
 I was not worried about the outcome of the fight or the fact that my opponent would be a boy. We (Geeta and her sister Babita) had gotten used to training with boys every day. But the fact that I was going to fight in front of such a big crowd full of men for the first time gave me a strange feeling. I was shy, but it took me only two-three dangals to get used to the atmosphere and I soon began to enjoy myself.
 
 Babita started a little later. During training, Papa (Mahabir Phogat) would talk about taking us for dangal when he felt we were ready. After training so hard at home, we were keen to get the exposure.
 
 In those days, we never planned how to go about the fight, all we could think of was that no women would be present. We were the ones to start the trend of wrestling with boys in India. They were scared of fighting with us as people would make fun of them if they lost or if we gave them a close fight. Ladkiyon se harna kisko pasand hai. Who likes to lose to girls after all?
 
 People would taunt them saying, “Tu is chori se haar gaya” (you lost to this girl). And we would enjoy the attention. We would hear people talk about us when we passed by: “Yeh Balali wali ladkiyan hain” (These are the girls from Balali). Some would say, “Yeh ladkiyan hain ya ladke?” Are they girls or boys?
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  | 43 | Paytm founder
 
 2016 was memorable, both for Vijay Shekhar Sharma and his company. While Paytm gained exponentially from the government’s move to demonetise high currency notes, Sharma’s personal wealth swelled as he sold 1% of his shareholding recently for Rs 325 crore. “This is the first time I’ve done a secondary sale. The money will be used to capitalise the payments bank and I may buy a house after having lived in a rented apartment for so many years,” he says.
 
 Sharma says it was a wondrous moment when he got an SMS from ICICI Bank informing him that the transfer of money had happened. “I captured it by taking a screenshot. All my wealth has been on paper so far, as I have never felt that you need so much cash. I had never bothered to sell my stake earlier. Also, the best is yet to come for us,” he says.
 
 Sharma, who started One97 Communications (Paytm’s parent company) as a mobile value-added services platform in 2001, comes from a humble background. Today Paytm is valued at $5 billion and he says being a well-paid CEO (earning Rs 3.1 crore in the 2015-16 fiscal) is itself overwhelming. “My father who had a government job as a middle-school teacher would have earned in many years what I earn annually. But the real joy is in seeing your team members also gain from the success of the company. It’s about how many people come along with you in this journey. At Paytm we have at least 10 who have made $1 million and I’m more proud about creating these millionaires in the team than becoming one myself.”
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 Rahul Mishra | 37 | Fashion designer
 
 After winning the Woolmark Prize (an international award for emerging designers) in 2014, Mishra applied to participate in the Paris Fashion Week, something he’d dreamed of even before going to fashion school. “Then one evening in July - I remember it had just rained - I got the confirmation email. My show was at 3pm, sandwiched between Miu Miu and Hermès… between two super successful fashion brands. My budget for the entire collection would probably equal the cost of their one creation. It was intimidating, and exhilarating,” recalls Mishra, who went on to win praise from tough critics like Suzy Menkes, not to mention orders from buyers across the world.
 
  The collection which he put together in three months was titled Ferryman’s Tale, and inspired by traditional Japanese stencil art and Chintz textile techniques.
 
 While there were no glitches, there was last-minute panic. Mishra says he and his wife visited a Ganesha temple in Paris to seek blessings before the show. “However, on our return we got stuck in heavy traffic and had to dash the last kilometre to the venue on foot. We reached just 20 minutes before the scheduled time of 3pm. Thankfully, the previous show took longer to wrap up so I got an extra half-hour,” says Mishra.
 
 The venue, he says, was located opposite the Eiffel Tower. “Just standing there, realizing the sheer magnitude of it all and how far we have come, my always stoic and composed wife Divya just broke down,” recalls Mishra who has since shown at PFW six times.
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Shweta Rathore | 28 | Two-time Miss India fitness physique
 
 My palms felt oily. It was the World Bodybuilding & Physique Sports Championship of 2014 and my first time competing for an international medal in the fitness physique category. It was also the first time the contest was being held in Mumbai.
 
 As a 25-year-old aspiring fitness model for India, this was a high-stakes platform for me. No Indian had ever won a medal in this category globally, and I had spent over Rs 5 lakh on training, diet, designer bikinis, shiny heels, personal make-up artist, hairdresser and other stuff. I had even cut down on salt and water days before the event so that my veins would pop. At the end, there was to be no cash prize, only a medal. And that’s all I really wanted.
 
 But right before the pre-judging round, which would decide the top five finalists, I realized that I had applied a tanning cream which had too much oil. Big mistake, especially when you have to do a 90-second routine which includes handstands, back-flips, push-ups and cartwheels. I was clutching my knees when they called out my name but then I asked my fear to take a backseat. Somehow, my palms didn’t cave, my crow pose held as did my handstands and I made it into the final five.
 
 Compared to my sticky morning, my evening was light and confident. When I entered the green room to slip into my black sports bra and shorts, fellow contestants from Brazil and Thailand said I didn’t look Indian. They didn’t know India too had women with ripped muscles and were surprised by my physique and my confidence. Even a Hungarian official who had trained many title holders said I was a find. This charged me up. I knew I was already changing stereotypes. In a black bikini and heels, I then assumed the mandatory poses with the four other finalists. My confidence paid off. I won the bronze medal, the first-ever Indian woman to do so. I realized that once you overpower fear, you can achieve anything. Also, I have never used that tanning cream since. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Rakesh Sharma | 67 | Astronaut
 
 On April 3, 1984, my two crew members and I got into the elevator that would take us to the Soyuz T-11 spacecraft at the Baikonur cosmodrome (now in Kazakhstan). Though there was this great sense of anticipation and curiosity, I just slipped into my seat in the spacecraft as if it was routine. The launch was noisy - a lot of vibration and acceleration. I knew this was not going to be a bicycle ride.
 
 After a few hours, we docked with the Salyut-7 space station and were greeted by the cosmonauts who were already there. There were no surprises because it was exactly like the simulator. The food, mostly Russian fare, didn’t feel strange either because we had eaten it during our intense training. We immediately got down to business, looking at the various programmes, setting up experiments…I adjusted to zero gravity quite fast.
 
 The work schedule was tight even on the first day. Whenever there was a break, I enjoyed the scenery outside which was beautiful.
 
 On the second day, I spoke to our PM Indira Gandhi and when she asked how India looked from above, I replied, “Sare Jahan Se Achha’’.
 
 I would love to go back into space, but this time as a tourist.
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  | 40 | Lyricist, whose most recent work is Dangal
 
 In 2007 when Amit Trivedi got an offer to compose music for two films – Anurag Kashyap’s Dev.D and and his assistant Rajkumar Gupta’s Aamir – he wanted me write the songs. But I wanted to be a singer, not a songwriter. Before coming to Mumbai in 1999, I used to belt out Kishore Kumar hits for a band called The Violent Orchestra in my hometown Lucknow. To impress music directors during those days of struggle, I had even prepared a demo CD of songs written, composed and crooned by me. But Amit, who was also a friend, kept persuading me. Finally, we came to this understanding that I would write “dummy” lyrics for his tunes. Once the melody was approved, a regular songwriter would step in. 
 
 The first song I wrote was Dev D’s Yeh Duniya Badi Gol Hai. The number plays in the background when the protagonist is battling heartbreak. I listened to the tune on a Walkman and I remember having written it in a day! Anurag and everybody else loved my work. Till then, I had no idea that I was embarking on an entirely new career. Today barring the odd music buff, few can recollect that track. However, everybody remembers another number I wrote for the same film: Emotional atyachaar.
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
  | 42 | Indian Accent chef
 
 The first fusion food I created was Meetha Achar Pork Ribs in London, during my early trials of what I call ‘Inventive Indian’ cuisine. I had been trained as a Pan-Asian chef and was comfortable with flavours like sweet and chilli. I took up pork ribs (not lamb which has a stronger flavour) and tried cooking it in different ways: marinating and roasting it, boiling it, steaming it - but the smell of pork fat lingered. It put us off. In India we’re very conscious of the way our meats are cut - we instruct the butcher on how to clean it in specific ways. That’s when I thought of braising it in coconut milk in a slow oven. That did the trick. 
 
 Then my thoughts fell on achar. And I had some meetha Gujarati chunda with me in London at the time. I applied it to the ribs and they were an instant hit. Later, other chefs replicated the recipe on chicken and lamb. But I started with pork and stuck with pork. When I started out eight years ago, ‘fusion’ was a bad word, equated with ‘confusion’. But my rule was to never mix ingredients without reason. There had to be a logic and story to the fusion. My ploy was to look to nostalgia, to what I was accustomed to in my childhood.
 
 When I was about to open Indian Accent in India, people said I was nuts. “You’re opening an Indian restaurant, that too in Delhi, without chicken tikka on the menu!” they said. In fact, in the early days people actually came in, read the menu and walked out. They couldn’t understand it. “You don’t have biryani and dal tadka?” they asked. In fact, the first time a renowned personality, and a traditionalist as far as food went, tried the food, he said the place ought to be called Indian Accident, not Indian Accent. It was a trying time, but we stuck to our guns. 
 
 
 
 
 
