PATNA: The state cabinet on Tuesday allotted Rs 397 crore for the ambitious Dr A P J   project.

 The science city, which will come up near   in  , is expected to be inaugurated in June 2019. The facility is intended to be completed in all respects, including testing and commissioning of all components, by early 2019. 
 
 The science city project was conceptualised in 2012 with the objective of promoting and popularising science among the people as well as demonstrating and preserving the illustrious history of scientific development in   as well as in Indian subcontinent through visual interactive media. 
 
 Canada-based Lord Cultural Resources has already prepared the master plan for the project. The target built-up area for the science city project is 30,000sqm, spread over 20.48 acres between   and Moin-ul-Haq Stadium. The total experiential area, on the other hand, will be 20,000 sqm.
 
 As per the master plan prepared by Lord Cultural Resources, the exhibits in the proposed science city would be based on six themes – be a scientist, basic science, sustainability, body and mind and space and astronomy. 
 
 Apart from science city project, the cabinet also approved rectifications of clerical mistakes in the proposed pay grade for a couple of categories of state government employees, which has paved the way for disbursement of salaries as per revised salary structure starting from May. 
 
 The state cabinet had on May 16 approved the report of state pay fitment committee formed for assessing the recommendations of the seventh pay commission of the central government. As per the decision taken in the last meeting of the state cabinet, around 3.65 lakh employees 6 lakh pensioners of the state government will get a hike of 14-15% in their salary with effect from April 1 this year. 
 
 Altogether 11 proposals were approved by state cabinet on Tuesday. In one of the important decisions, the cabinet approved the Bihar New Renewable Energy Policy, 2017, which offers certain incentives to producers involved in production of renewable energy. One of the salient features of the renewable energy policy is that the state government will bear all expenses on transmission evacuation system up to 10km from power production plant. The state energy department has targeted to produce 2969MW of solar energy and 244MW of biomass energy by 2022. 
 
 In another decision, the state cabinet approved Rs 150 crore for diesel subsidy and Rs 175 crore under contingency crop scheme for irregular rainfall or flood or drought. Another Rs 251 crore was sanctioned for rehabilitation of embankments and barrages damaged in 2016. In another decision, the state cabinet gave its nod to appointment of 100 junior engineers in building construction department on contract basis.
 
