UDAIPUR:   and bad roads are among the major problems persisting in Indian cities and this man has a common solution to both – plastic roads. An experiment that R Vasudevan, a chemistry professor, conducted long back in 2001 from his not-so-well equipped laboratory at Thiagarajar College of Engineering, Madurai in Tamil Nadu, by laying a stretch of plastic road in the institution’s premises. This innovation became a huge hit.

 Now, after nearly 16 years of the innovation, the country has approximately 1 lakh km of the ‘green’ road. The effective and low-cost technology has turned the harmful and toxic waste into a useful resource.
 
 Prof Vasudevan is the recipient of the  , instituted by the   here, which would be given away in a ceremony at the City Palace on Sunday. Popularly known as the ‘Plastic Man of India’, Vasudevan spoke to TOI about the various projects he is working on currently. 
 
 “ Plastic is not a waste but a blessing and it’s the poor man’s friend. It can’t be taken from our lives,” he said.
 
 “When the Tamil Nadu government was about to put a plastic ban, 7,000 polymer manufacturers were aggrieved,” Vasudevan added.
 
 Instead of replacing the material completely, Vasudevan’s approach was to deal with the waste generated in a better way. He conducted experiments and came up with a technology to lay roads utilizing plastic waste productively. Plastic has good binding properties and increases the bond of the mix. Such roads can withstand heavier loads. They are water-resistant and don’t have potholes or stripping.
 
 When road life increases their maintenance cost decreases. “ Presently, it requires 10 tonnes of bitumen for a 1 km long road with a width of 3.75m. For  , we use 1 tonne of plastic and 9 tonnes of bitumen and this saves a tonne of bitumen, costing around 50,000 rupees. One tonne of plastic waste equals 10 lakh carrier bags. It is a complete win-win situation. Not only are we getting rid of plastic waste effectively, but we also get superior quality roads,” he asserts.
 
 Prof Vasudevan patented the technology and soon was flooded with offers from private companies from the US, but he blatantly refused all teh offers and chose to share his expertise free-of-cost with the government of India. “ India has a road network of 41 lakh kilometres, of which only 60,000 kilometres are highways. If the existing roads are scrapped and relaid with plastic, they will not require maintenance for years and endure three times the load that is taken by the ordinary ones,” the scientist claims. 
 
 “ When the floods washed away almost every road in Chennai last year, only the plastic ones survived. Similarly, only the stretches of plastic roads remained when the water gushed through Mumbai streets in 2005,” he claims proudly. 
 
 Prof Vasudevan is also on a mission to clean India of its plastic waste. “ It corroborates with the Swachh Bharat mission too and more states are now approaching me for switching to plastic roads,” said Vasudevan, who is an acting consultant to 100 companies on waste treatment. 
 
 In 2015, the government of India had mandated the road developers to use plastic waste in road construction within 50 km radius of any city with a population of over 5 lakh.
 
 Eleven states including Tamil Nadu, Meghalaya, Himachal Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Kerala, Maharashtra, West Bengal, Goa have implemented this technology in road construction. 
 
 Vasudevan’s team is now working on various processes to use electronic waste and development of plastone-artificial granite, which is a good structural material with various uses for pathways, blocks, canal lining and ready-made walls. These constructions consume 30 times more plastic waste than a road.
 
 
