KOCHI: The Kottiyoor case, in which a priest was accused of raping a minor, has shed light on the flaws in the   in the state. The lack of qualified persons, repeat terms for members, use of child protection systems to cover up acts of individuals have all been taking place much to the chagrin of   that are often the first to report the case to  .

 The term of all 14 CWCs in the state have ended, some in March 2015, others the next year. Many were functioning with lesser staff, they felt that their term was over.
 
 “We have a three-year term for each CWC. This time, it went beyond five for many . There was a change in gover nment and central rules of the Juvenile Justice Act changed. The Centre also released its rules. Though the state hasn't framed its rules, it can follow the central rules till then,“ said director of   (NGO) M P Antoni.
 
 In one of the districts, a CWC member runs a children's home. “If there's any untoward incident at the home, the case will come up before the same CWC member and one can foresee how the decision process can proceed,“ he added.
 
 There have been instances of missing files and the lack of proper, timely docu mentation. The delay in decision making because of absence of CWC sittings have left many children stranded in homes. “There was this case where a girl was abused by her father. When Childline rescued her and brought the case before CWC, it sent her home with her mother instead of shifting her to a rescue home. The father was taken into custody, but obviously he would be out on bail.We all know that relatives persuade her to withdraw the case or weaken it. This decision shocked us. But, CWC refused to change its decision,“ said an activist N Babu, former member, Kerala child rights commission said that at least such cases were reported here. “However, much needs to be done by the gover nment while restructuring CWCs.Ideally, we should have people who do not have connections with any institutions (religious or political). They need to be trained in the laws governing protection of child rights. One or two training sessions is not enough. It has to be a continuous process as cases and legal documents are the base for the case to move forward,“ he said.
 
 A Unicef-sponsored study by Rajagiri Outreach that reviewed the state of CWCs in Kerala a couple of years ago had reported that there was no uniformity in maintaining case records and other documents. “We should be having support staff to document every decision,“ said Babu.
 
 Absence of members during sittings was affecting CWC's functions. The study noted that there was a variability in the frequency and duration of sittings, delay in proceeding transfer cases, absence of internal reviews, inability to seek out unreached areas, lack of transportation facility, poor infrastructure, inconvenient venue of sittings and limited manpower.
 
 “Govt should not appoint people who have links with other institutions. Religious and politically-affiliated persons should be kept away,“ said  , director, Human Rights Law Network.
 
