KOLHAPUR: The members of the   squad, the police teams in plain clothes who scan streets for eve-teasers, have been busy in Satara district. 

 In the past nine months, they have registered 5,336 eve-teasing cases in Satara district, followed by 3,350 cases in Pune rural. The least number of cases were registered in   district (1,468).
 
 With an aim to keep a check on crime against women and reduce the number of cases of eve-teasing, molestation and other crimes related to women, specific teams comprising of women personnel were formed. The Nirbhaya teams are replica of the 'She' teams set up by Hyderabad police.
 
 Special inspector general,   Range, Vishwas Nangre Patil said, “Since August 2016, after setting up Nirbhaya squads, a total of 15,134 cases were registered against   in Kolhapur Range. Maximum number of these cases were registered in Satara district, followed by Pune rural. The jurisdiction of Nirbhaya squads is schools, colleges and their campuses, offices, public places like markets and bus stops.” 
 
 Along with taking action against the eve teasers, the Nirbhaya teams have also conducted series of workshops for counselling and programmes to spread awareness among youths about the crimes against women. 
 
 “We have counselled 5,873 persons from Kolhapur Range since August 2016. We have also organised 2,624 programmes to spread awareness among youths since August 2016. We are planning the increase these types of activities and continue the programmes henceforth,” said Nangre Patil.
 
 Refuting the claims of action taken by the Nirbhaya squads, social activist Varsha Deshpande said the police need training to differentiate between eve-teasing and young boys and girls roaming together.
 
 “The numbers of cases registered in Satara district are maximum because of the typical culture of the police department. The district is progressive with very less number of crimes against women. Satara is the hub of educational institutes and the youth here are sensitive and respect women,” she said. 
 
 She added that there is a need to provide gender training to Satara police and change their attitude towards youth in the district, especially in college students. 
 
 
