PANCHKULA: Haryana chief minister  's ' janta darbar' was meant to allow   to bring their complaints to him for   Those who arrived with great hope on Saturday, however, left disappointed. After about an hour of listening to some people, the crowd was instructed to hand over written complaints that officials would address. Many of the nearly 500 people who arrived said this was a mere "publicity stunt", meant to garner media attention. There were even allegations that the local administration misled the chief minister and got him to cut his programme short. 

 Officials, however, insisted that all went as planned. The chief minister adjusted his itinerary such that he spent maximum time with people, an official told TOI. 
 
 As many as 60 complaints were registered during the darbar, which lasted an hour. The chief minister attended to about a dozen complaints personally, and then announced that written complaints will be taken and later submitted to him.
 
 Ishwar Chand Bhalla who arrived at the da0rbar to represent a group of 20 people disappointed after making an investment in flats a private builder promised, said, "We were the first to arrive, we got here by 8 am. The local administration listed our complaint right at the end. We somehow managed to enter the queue, and the chief minister announced that we submit documents. What is the point of organizing such events?" 
 
 Bhalla had hoped for relief - the housing project had been floated in 2008 but the flats are still to be handed to investors.
 
 Rajesh Kumar was one of several Junior Basic Training (JBT) teachers of the 2013 batch who are waiting for the implementation of a decision of the Punjab and Haryana High Court and the preparation of a fresh merit list. "We were initially barred from entering the premises. The cops assured us an appointment, but did not allow us in. For two hours, no one listened to us," he said. 
 
 Sanjay Talu hoped to share with the chief minister the woes of officials of the   in Kurukshetra and five other districts, who had lost their jobs. Talu was accompanied by 50 others who had all lost their jobs. 
 
 "This event was mere eyewash. Only complaints that were 'sponsored' were entertained. We have knocked on all doors for relief, including of the chief minister's office.It was the CMO that guided us to the event in Panchkula. And now, having come here, we return with nothing achieved," he said.
 
