PATNA: There’s good news for cable TV subscribers in the state as the monthly rental is expected to decline in the wake of a recent order from the   ( ).

 As per an order issued by broadcast carriage regulator TRAI on March 2 applicable to multi-system cable operators (MSOs) and private D2H (direct to home) operators like   and Dish TV among others, a cap of Rs 130 (plus taxes) has been imposed on the monthly bill for television subscribers for the first 100 free-to-air (FTA) channels. Besides, the price of individual channels bundled in genre-wise bouquets cannot exceed Rs 19. The broadcasters also have to declare their channels either FTA or paid and their maximum retail price which cannot exceed Rs 19.
 
 For instance, cable TV subscribers in Patna are required to pay Rs 260 to Rs 325 on an average as monthly rental. MSOs claim that the same will come down to Rs 150-200 per month upon implementation of the new tariff order with the condition of pay channels.
 
 According to the MSOs in the city, the new tariff order from TRAI will lead to lower monthly rentals for subscribers. “The existing price of channels fixed by broadcasters is quite high, but TRAI has now put a cap on the MRP of channels offered in different categories. For example, the cap in sports category channels has been fixed at Rs 19 and that in entertainment category has been fixed at Rs 12. Besides, the rate of commission charged by local cable operators will come down from the present 70% to 45%. Hence, the overall monthly rentals for subscribers will also dip,” said  , director,  .
 
 A senior executive in Ahmedabad-based Gujarat Telelink Pvt Ltd (GTPL) which also operates in Patna claimed that consumers would be benefited from the new tariff order of TRAI. “Under the prevailing bundle system, consumers were at times required to pay for many channels which they did not even want. But they will now be required to pay for only those channels which they want to watch. Besides, maximum price has been fixed for channels in different categories. Hence, there is higher level of transparency in pricing in cable TV channels,” the GTPL executive said.
 
 As per the Digital Addressable Cable TV System Regulations, 2012, MSOs can transmit digital signals and activate the set top boxes only after receiving the subscriber application form from the consumer containing his/her preference of channels and personal details.
 
 The broadcasters have, however, been given 30 days’ time to implement the latest order of TRAI.
 
