PATNA: The war of words between the   and   over alleged benami land deals involving RJD president Lalu Prasad’s family, turned violent on Wednesday with supporters of the two parties indulging in a clash at the saffron party’s office in Patna.
 
  The trouble arose when   activists took out a procession on  , where the two parties have their state offices, in protest against the I-T department raids on premises in Delhi-NCR of the companies and people associated with Lalu on Tuesday.
  
  Several people were injured as lathi-wielding men, many of them bare-chested, had a field day. Both the warring parties alleged the rivals were drunk even though prohibition is in force in the state.
  
  At the time of the incident, the BJP office had few partymen inside as a dharna of the party on the corruption charges against Lalu was going on at Gardanibagh, a couple of kilometres away.
  
  The BJP later lodged an FIR at the Kotwali police station, naming Lalu and his sons -- deputy CM Tejashwi Prasad Yadav and forest and health minister Tej Pratap Yadav -- as the accused. “They instigated the violent attack on our office,” said complainant and BJP’s office incharge Lalita Singh Yadav.
  
  Onlookers said around 200-250 men shouting slogans like “Lalu se jo takrayega, mitti mein mil jayega” came out in a procession from the party’s office around 12.20pm and headed towards the BJP office. They were escorted by a police team.
  
  “Most RJD workers were shirtless and reeking of alcohol. Their sloganeering turned shriller in front of our office, following which we locked the entrance gate. Apparently aware of the fact that most of our workers were at the dharna site at Gardanibagh, the RJD men tried to break open the gate. Having failed to do so, they pelted our office with stones and alcohol bottles, breaking window panes and damaging vehicles,” said Brajesh Tiwari, a BJP worker who had his head broken.
  
  BJP functionaries alleged their workers were stopped by police when they tried to move towards the RJD office later. “Police connived with the RJD. The men in uniform stood as mute spectators when the RJD attacked our office and stopped us when we tried to move towards the RJD office,” BJP’s state spokesperson Devesh Kumar told TOI.
  
  State Chhatra RJD president Aakash Yadav, who led the procession, had a different version. “The BJP workers started using abusive language and threatened to beat us with bamboos when we were crossing past their office. We squatted at the spot, demanding apology and were instead attacked with liquor bottles and stones,” Yadav said.
  
  BJP state president Nityanand Rai later told mediapersons his party would burn the effigy of Lalu as well as CM Nitish Kumar at its party offices across the state on Thursday. “Nitish is responsible... He did not act against Lalu or his minister sons when we brought documents in public domain about their benami deals and now he is not acting against the RJD goons for attacking our office,” said Rai.
  
  RJD national spokesperson Manoj Jha denied the allegations against RJD workers and said Lalu has always condemned violence in politics.
  Meanwhile, the Chhatra RJD also lodged an FIR with the Kotwali police station against BJP functionaries, including former deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi, state president Nityanand Rai and former state president Mangal Pandey, accusing them of attacking its members. The FIR, lodged by Chhatra RJD’s Bimlesh Yadav, alleged the BJP leaders and workers attacked them with lathis, liquor bottles and stones.
