JALANDHAR/NEW DELHI: A social media campaign against   in the wake of Wednesday’s violence in DU has gone viral with students from different campuses changing their profile pictures on Instagram and Facebook. The social media campaign, “I’m Not Afraid of ABVP”, has been initiated by  , daughter of Kargil martyr Captain Mandeep Singh. Kaur was just two years old when her father was martyred. 

 A student of Lady Shri Ram College, Kaur called the assault on students of Ramjas College by ABVP members as “brutal”, “disturbing” and an “attack on Democracy”. She appealed to those who are against ABVP to “take a similar selfie and make it your profile picture. Use the hashtag #StudentsAgainstABVP and copy paste this message along with it”. 
 
 Kaur, a native of Jalandhar, changed her profile picture holding a placard reading: “I am a student from Delhi University. I am not afraid of ABVP. I am not alone. Every student of India is with me. #StudentsAgainstABVP”. It goes with a status message: “The brutal attack on innocent students by ABVP is very disturbing and should be stopped. It was not an attack on protesters, but an attack on every notion of democracy that is held dear in ever Indian's heart. It is an attack on ideals, morals, freedom and rights of every person born to this nation. The stones that you pelt hit our bodies, but fail to bruise our ideas. This profile picture is my way of protesting against the tyranny of fear.” 
 
 Within hours, she got response from various campuses — right from Panjab University in the north to Mumbai University in west, from Indraprastha University to   and Jamia, among others. In less than 48 hours, the FB post of Kaur had 1,200 reactions, 1,991 shares and 143 comments. 
 
 Responding to a TOI query about the campaign, Kaur revealed that initially she did not read much into the issue. “(But) after I came to know that even people who I knew were attacked at the protest, physically assaulted and given rape and death threats, it hit me how horrible the condition is. There is only one way of protesting that I know: it is through technology and media. This, for me, is a people’s movement.” 
 
 She added: “It is not about two political parties against each other. It’s about students against a student-government organisation that does not believe in Democracy and uses violence to support its autocratic way of leadership. This is students standing up against goons and bullies to reclaim the university space that belongs to them,” she wrote in a communiqué to TOI.
 
 A silent video by Kaur with the message of Indo-Pak peace had gone viral in 2016, a year when nationalism dominated the national political discourse. Her silent video, created by Mumbai-based social commentator Ram Subramanian and posted on FB on April 28 last year, asking both the countries to put an end to state-sponsored terrorism and hatred, has more than 15 lakh views at present.
 
 
