CHENNAI: As many as 12 of the 25 higher educational institutions which received awards for swachhta rankings from the HRD Ministry are from the state. The awards were given across four categories: Technical institutions, Government institutions, Universities and  .

 Five of the seven institutions chosen under the technical institutions category and five of the six institutions chosen under colleges category across the country, were from the state.
 
 Sri Ramachandra Medical College and Research Institute was one of the institutions that bagged the third rank under technical institutions category. SRU dean (research) S P Thyagarajan said the fact that so many institutions in the state were recognised was a positive indication of the awareness levels across campuses to maintain the hygiene. He said it was important that the awareness trickled down to campuses in the state’s rural areas.
 
 “Higher educational institutions should focus on improving student facilities which not only promote a good ambience but also their overall health. We have adopted 8 villages near   to make it defaecation-free and plan to expand cleanliness campaigns to other villages too,” said Thyagarajan.
 
 Expert committees of All India Council for Technical Education ( ) and   ( ) visited campuses for verification. Status of maintenance of toilets, student-toilet ratio in hostels, availability of running water, novel methods of purification, garbage clearance, garbage disposal, hygiene in hostels, greenery in campus, overall cleanliness, number of buildings, students and staff, and extension work done in villages/nearby areas for cleanliness were the major parameters considered by the committees. Colleges also said 15% weightage was given for village adoption scheme to make them open defaecation-free.
 
 AICTE officials who carried out inspections said a large number of the applications came in from Tamil Nadu. The officials said when it came to kitchens, toilets and drinking water facility, the award-winning campuses were very well maintained. “The fact that so many colleges willingly came forward to put their names up for swacchta rankings indicated the confidence of these institutions in their campus maintenance,” said AICTE regional officer, R Balmurugan. 
 
 AICTE has decided to give out the AICTE ‘Clean Campus Awards 2017’ on October 2, under the regional and national categories. Officials said most of the entries for these awards too were from the state, so, they said, were mulling over hosting the award ceremony in Tamil Nadu. The criteria for the awards are solid waste management, water conservation and management including waste water management and reuse, rain water harvesting, energy conservation and electronic waste management
 
