Hyderabad: In a booster shot for city-based  , the Delhi High Court on Wednesday quashed Bayer Corporation’s patent infringement plea, allowing Natco to export a generic version of Bayer's blockbuster anti-cancer drug Sorafenib Tosylate (Nexavar) API for research purposes.

 Bayer had contended that when the Controller of Patents on March 9, 2012, granted Compulsory Licence (CL) to Natco to manufacture and sell a generic version of Bayer’s Nexavar, one of the terms was that the drug would be sold only in India.
 
 In its ruling, the Delhi HC said: “Natco as a non-patentee cannot be deprived of making, constructing and selling, by way of export, a patented invention for purposes specified in Section 107A for the reason of having been granted the Compulsory Licence."
 
 Under Section 107A, any act of making, constructing a patented invention solely for uses reasonably related to the development and submission of information required under any law in force in India, or in a country other than India is not considered an infringement.
 
 The senior counsel for Natco had argued before the court that the exports intended by Natco are only for R&D purposes and to obtain the drug regulatory approvals in the countries to which exports are intended. Natco had contended that it was not intending export of the product covered by the compulsory licence for commercial purposes.
 
 “R&D activity with respect even to patented drugs, for submission of data to the Drug Regulatory Authority, is not infringement. Natco, even before obtaining the Compulsory Licence had done the bio-equivalence and bio-availability tests and there was no objection from Bayer thereto… it is for this reason only that Natco, immediately after obtaining the Compulsory Licence, was able to introduce the drug in the Indian market,” Natco’s senior counsel argued.
 
 Meanwhile, the Delhi HC also allowed Alembic Pharmaceuticals to export Bayer’s Rivaroxaban API for R&D purpose. Rivaroxaban is used in preventing blood clots.
 
 
