NASHIK: The police on Saturday arrested three persons for rebottling smuggled liquor at an apartment in the   area. 

 The police are also on the lookout for four others involved in the crime.
 
 Around 8.30 pm, the Mumbai Naka police got information that Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) was being rebottled in an apartment. Soon after the getting information, assistant commissioner of police  , senior police inspector   and a team of the detection branch rushed to the spot and arrested three people.
 
 Sonawane said, “The suspects had bought liquor from outside the state, where it is available at cheaper rates. They were filling the liquor in empty bottles which had labels of different whiskey brands. They were planning to sell adulterated liquor in Nashik for the upcoming civic elections.”
 
 The officer said that in the past they have come across similar cases where the accused buys cheap liquor from other states, mix it with some other chemical and fill them in bottles with labels of branded whiskeys or other alcoholic drinks. This helps them in making four to five times more money on their investment.
 
 “Since the campaigning for the civic polls had reached a feverish pitch and candidates contesting the civic elections would want to keep their activists happy by giving them food and drinks at the end of the day, such liquor could fetch a good price,” said an officer.
 
 The police found 45 liquor boxes in the apartment and a car used in the crime has also been seized. The Mumbai Naka police said they seized goods worth Rs 13.50 lakh in the raid.
 
 The police have booked the owner of the apartment for renting out his property for illegal activities.  , deputy commissioner of police of Zone 1, said they were maintaining strict vigil across the city to check if liquor or money was distributed among activists by the candidates contesting the election.
 
 “The seizure of the liquor and car was a result of the increased vigil by the city police to keep a tab on all illegal activities ahead of the February 21 civic elections,” he said.
 
