The   on Monday fixed the ceiling price of   (DES) and   at Rs 30,000 and that of bare metal stents at Rs 7,500. The prices will be effective from notification on February 14.

 This comes as a huge relief to lakhs of patients who have to undergo 
  to insert stents to open up clogged arteries. Over six lakh stents were estimated to have been used in angioplasties in India in 2016.
 
 The cost of a drug eluting stent currently ranges between Rs 24,000 and Rs 1.5 lakh and that of a bioresorbable stent is Rs 1.7 lakh to Rs 2 lakh. Over 95% of stents used in India are drug eluting.
 
 According to data 
  , the average manufacturing cost of a DES for a domestic company is about Rs 8,000 and prices of imported DES start at about Rs 5,000. The NPPA also revealed that a stent could cost the patient over ten times by the time it moved from the manufacturer to the patient.
 
 The data showed that hospitals made the 
  , marking up prices by as much as 650% in some cases. Many hospitals saw stents as part of their revenue stream and made huge profits on them and hospital groups had strongly opposed price control on stents.
 
 With the new notification, hospitals will have to bill stents separately. All hospitals will also have to follow Para 24 (4) of the Drug Price Control Order (DPCO) 2013 which states: “Every retailer and dealer shall display the price list and the supplementary price list, if any, as furnished by the manufacturer, on a conspicuous part of the premises where he carries on business in a manner so as to be easily accessible to any person wishing to consult the same.”
 
 The health ministry notified the inclusion of stents in the National List of Essential Medicines (NLEM) on July 19 last year, after the Delhi High Court sought action on a public interest petition seeking price control on stents. 
 
 Five months later, on Dec 21, the department of pharmaceuticals notified stents in schedule-I of the DPCO 2013 clearing the way for price fixation.
 
 “If this is true, this is definitely heart-warming news for millions of Indians. We look forward to immediate implementation,” said   of the   (AIDAN).
 
