HYDERABAD: Residents of Old City, can look for some respite from summer as they can travel in  , beginning this April. Transport Minister P Mahender Reddy said the   (TSRTC) is introducing airconditioned buses in Old City on some routes. In addition, it will also introduce services that will be run with mini buses. Also, Falaknuma and Midhani bus stations will begin operations next month.

 Responding to queries on public transport system, especially in the Old City, the minister said a meeting will be held with MLAs representing Old City's constituencies before the end of this Assembly session to discuss public transportation issues and attempt to find solutions to problems related to RTC services in that part of Hyderabad.
 
 During the discussion, MIM floor leader   wanted to know how many old buses were still plying on the city roads even after their average life span was completed and said such vehicles were contributing to increasing air pollution in the city. He also asked the minister to introduce mini buses in Old City and destination signs on these buses be written in Urdu, at least in areas where Urdu speakers are predominant.
 
 Akbaruddin said it was surprising that 402 people were killed in 827 road accidents involving RTC buses with most of these fatalities occurring when people were trying to get off the buses.Other MIM MLAs   and Jaffar Hussain said many bus services were withdrawn with RTC citing poor occupancy as the reason for it to do so.
 
 Mahender Reddy said in all 3,519 buses including 131 CNG fuelled ones ply in the   with about 33 lakh people commuting daily . He said RTC considers buses 15 years old or that ply more than 13.60 lakh kilometres as those that need to be condemned. In the city , no bus aged over 15 years is on the roads, he added.
 
 He said the state government allocated `140 crore to RTC for procuring new buses and mini buses would be introduced to residential colonies and also to provide connectivity from metro rail sta tions. He said SETWIN buses will not be allowed to run services on national highways as per the existing rules.
 
 Earlier, both Owaisi and municipal minister KT Rama Rao entered into a heated argument over the number of questions raised during the Question Hour. While KTR suggested that several issues can be discussed during debates on demands, Owaisi said the minister was showing a `dictatorial attitude' prompting Rama Rao to ask the MLA to withdraw his comment. Speaker S Madhsudhana Chary also objected to remarks and words used by the MIM MLA.
 
