SURAT: Powerloom weavers in Pandesara and   industrial areas will be able to procure yarn-raw material for the polyester fabric-at concessional rates with the ministry of textiles increasing the corpus fund for India’s first yarn banks in the city from Rs 1 crore to Rs 2 crore.

 At the recently announced   — a central government package scheme for powerloom sector — the corpus fund for the yarn banks in Surat has been increased to Rs 2 crore each and bank guarantee reduced from 50 per cent to 25 per cent. 
 
 Two years ago, the central government had sanctioned two yarn banks in the powerloom clusters of Ved Road and Pandesara, country’s largest man-made fabric (MMF) centre. 
 
 The ministry of textiles had formed two special purpose vehicles, Ved Road Art Silk Small Scale Co-operative Federation and   for setting up of the yarn banks. 
 
 These banks were started with an initial corpus fund of Rs 1 crore for purchasing yarn from open market and selling at concessional rates to their initial 1,000-member weavers. The yarn banks provide an opportunity to the weavers to arrest the price fluctuations and check the presence of middlemen. The yarn banks allow the weavers to procure yarn on credit and repay the amount in instalments. 
 
 Surat has around 5.5 lakh powerloom machines which produce three crore meters of fabrics every day and employ around seven lakh workers.
 
 An official of Ved Road Art Silk Small Scale Co-operative Federation said there were more than one lakh weavers in Ved Road and Pandesara clusters and that the yarn bank is able to cater to only 100 units initially. The yarn is procured from frontline spinners in bulk quantity at concessional rates. 
 
 The yarn bank serves twin purposes. Firstly, it gets yarn samples from around the world and store them. The domestic industry can get access to yarn samples of global standards and do further research and come out with innovative products. Second is the price benefit. 
 
  president Ashish Gujarati told TOI, “We are happy that the corpus fund at the yarn bank has been increased from Rs1 crore to Rs2 crore. We were able to cater to only 100 weavers at the bank, now around 200 will be able to get assistance. We have demanded that the corpus fund be increased to Rs15 crore.”
 
 
