Coimbatore: Butterlfy migration has started early this year, thanks to a good monsoon. Lakhs of butterflies are descending from the hills in Salem, Erode, Tirupur and Coimbatore and are moving towards the western ghats. Scientists said early migration is an indication of a healthy ecosystem. 

 P R Arun, principal scientist, Salim Ali Centre for Ornithology and Natural History (SACON) said, “Since butterflies are dependent on leaves and plants, their migration is dependent on the climatic condition and the biodiversity of the region. Nobody knows the actual reason for migration taking place. Some are genetically coded and there are environmental factors that trigger them. Not just butterflies, all insects, birds and amphibians can indicate the changes in biodiversity by their population.” He added that in 2010 and 2012, the numbers were high but there was gradual decrease since then. But there is abundance of rain and host plants, this year, he said. 
 
 A Paavendhan, founder member of the Tamil Nadu Butterfly Society, said they have been observing the migration of butterflies and recording it systematically in the western region of Tamil Nadu since 2012. “This is the first time in five years that the emigrants species are migrating along with dark blue tigers and other migratory species. Also, last year, migration was not observed at all owing to failed monsoons,” he said. He added that nearly 25 butterflies were recorded every five minutes. “This is a huge number and the last that we saw such a migration was in 2012 and 2014,” he said. 
 
 Jeswin Kingsly of Wildlife Wranglers, an NGO, said migration was always observed in the last week of September and huge numbers were noticed only in October. “This time, we saw butterflies moving fromm Kallar to Kothagiri in thousands. Most of them were emigrants and very few Dark Blue Tigers and Blue Tigers were noticed. Common crows were also noticed. The numbers were very high in comparison to previous years and this definitely is a positive indicator for our ecology,” he said. 
 
 Ramanasaran Hari, a member of TNBS, said he observed the migration near Marudhamalai, Eachanari and Pollachi. “Apart from the migratory species, what was surprising was other species such as Red Helen were also noticed in large numbers. Butterfly activity in the western region of Tamil Nadu has been high this year,” he said. “I also noticed many eggs on the host plants as they migrated.” 
 
 Paavendhan said this year the main reason is good monsoon. “These varieties are known as milk-breed butterflies and depend on the host plants. Emigrants belong to a family called ‘pieridie’ and are commonly known as whites and yellows. They require the golden shower tree and the Blue Tiger, Dark Blue Tiger, common crows belong to the ‘Nimphalidae’ family and require milk-weed plants. Their patterns are different, host plants are different and they belong to different families. “It is surprising that they are migrating together,” he said. 
 
 Researchers said this was not the first time that migration of butterflies has been recorded. As per S Rameshkumar, a research scholar who has published several papers on butterfly migration, records of butterfly migrations are present from as early as 1930s in Coimbatore. “Britishers have recorded the butterflies migrating through the Anaikatti hills and Ooty in their diaries and stories. They have always been an indicator of climate change and biodiversity,” said S Ramesh Kumar.
 
 
