TAWLI (UP): The unending ‘dangal’ or bout in the Yadav parivar has forced everyone associated with the   to pick sides. 

 Sitting near his home in the heart of West UP’s sugarcane country and dragging deep on his hookah, Mohammed Yaqub Chowdhury talks unhesitatingly about his choice. The 75-year-old, better known as Yaqub Mukhia, left Congress about two decades ago and joined the Samajwadi Party. He liked its founder Mulayam Singh Yadav (“garibon ka saathi”), canvassed for the party, acted as a polling agent, and when required, loaded buses and tractors with supporters to MSY rallies in nearby   and in faraway Lucknow. 
 
 But that was then. In recent times, Yaqub has switched allegiance and become a firm supporter of 
  , describing him “as good as Charan Singh” — the founder of Lok Dal, from Baghpat, now his son Ajit Singh’s constituency. 
 
 Yaqub’s isn’t a solitary voice. For decades now, the former village head has been influencing Muslim votes in Tawli. Located 10km from Muzaffarnagar town, the village has a population of over 13,000. Many are Muslims. That he owns 120 bigha land further enhances his clout. “Most of us listen to him,” chorused a bunch of his associates sitting nearby. 
 
 What Yaqub is to Tawli, Ainuddin is to Nirmani and Nooruddin Hassan is to Kabirpur. Ainuddin, now 80, is still known as Ainuddin sarpanch although he doesn’t hold the post any more. And Nooruddin, 55, is a village mukhiya. They are also SP workers who command respect and votes in their community. They too joined the party impressed by Mulayam, campaigned for him and have now decided to bat for Akhilesh. They are not bothered whether a father-son rapprochement comes about. And they are not losing sleep over who gets the cycle symbol or whether it is frozen. “Nishan rahe na rahe, hum to Akhilesh ke saath hain (symbol or no symbol, we are with Akhilesh,” says Ainuddin, once “a half-hearted” CPI worker who was drawn to SP by the word ‘Samajwadi’ (socialist). “Our village has around 1,500 Muslim voters. If there’s a split, about 90% will vote for Akhilesh,” Ainuddin said. 
 
 Yaqub too estimates that at least 90% Muslims from his village will vote for Akhilesh. Incredibly, even Nooruddin offers the same figure. Who are the remaining 10% of Muslims likely to vote for? The answer is BSP, largely. Only a handful might vote for Congress — that’s the general view. 
 
 For the trio and others around them, 
  today. Yaqub calls him ‘vikas purush’ (man of development); ironically, a sobriquet first given to his father by SP supporters. An associate reels out a list of “achievements” by Akhilesh: waiving loans, distributing laptops and phones, improving PDS, and increasing duration of electricity. “And if you dial 108 from any village, the ambulance reaches immediately,” Yaqub says. Adds Ainuddin, “Usme kisi kism ka daag nahi hai (Akhilesh is blemish-less).” Nooruddin sums up the mood, “No CM has done as much as him.” 
 
 Every political battle has its own cast of heroes and villains, going by the viewer’s perception and prejudices. For senior party workers, Mulayam is a “good” leader who has allowed himself to be surrounded by “unworthy” friends and associates. “Uske ghar mein chor aa gaye hain (there are thieves in his house now),” says Yaqub. Ainuddin feels that the 77-year-old should make way for his deserving son. “If a son is surging ahead, his father should just let him take the lead,” he says. 
 
 They all accept the analogy that the senior SP politician is like a great batsman past his prime, unwilling to hand over the captaincy to a dynamic youngster. “We don’t know about Etawah and other areas which are Mulayam’s stronghold. But here in West UP, Muslims are firmly behind Akhilesh,” says Ainuddin. His kinsmen nod in agreement.
 
