The Trump effect has not only deterred Indian professionals from applying for jobs in the US, it seems that even city students are looking at other countries for their  . Till now, the US has been the most preferred destination for Indian students. However, with President   recommending changes in the country’s visa and immigration policies, other destinations are also being explored for higher studies. 

 
 
 Arvind Gowardhan, a student counsellor says, “Students of art, fashion and literature are looking at countries like Sweden, Denmark and Ireland. This is because popular culture, in the form of books, movies or exhibitions, is big in these countries.”
 
 
 
 According to Sheetal Kachare, who works as a counsellor with a top education consultancy firm, Russia and Germany have emerged as the most prestigious places to study medicine. She says, “For the last many years, many students have approached us to study in Russia and Germany. This is because their medical colleges offer integrated courses, which directly help our students to intern with a medical practitioner there and get work experience. While the same would happen in the US (on a smaller scale), with the new visa and H1B policies, it seems our students might not get to work there at all. Thus, more and more of them are looking at studying in other parts of the world.”
 
 
 
 It isn’t just about immigration ban or the visa reforms. Most students feel that the money that they spend on their education in the US may not hold value in the future. Akanksha Khatri, a 17-year-old, who wishes to study economics, says, “Though I may get admission to a US university, there are chances that I may not end up with a job there, since the laws and policies seem to have got stricter under the Trump governance. It’s just like the United Kingdom, where you can study, but aren’t sure whether you will legally land a job. Thus, the money that I will spend (approximately Rs 42 lakh a year) might go waste.”
 
 
 
 While Australia and Canada have been popular study destinations apart from the US and UK, other countries like France, Spain, China, South Africa etc, too are willing to enroll international students, especially Indians. They also offer them part-time jobs to make their future secure. Vishal Goenka, who runs his own education consultancy firm in the city, says, “Education is considerably cheaper in these countries and we are counselling students to try them because they are coming up with various packages that makes life easy for the students. They offer them study and thereby work visa, thus guaranteeing them employment after completing education.” 
 
 
 
 Eighteen-year-old Nilya Adhikari from a city college says, “I have been regularly attending classes and preparing to give GMAT for the past one year. However, with the present situation in the United States, I think I will have to reconsider my option until something better comes up. I have thought about other countries as well like the UK and Australia. However, I am 
 keener to go to the US, so I will wait for a couple of months. Let’s see if the situation improves.” 
 
