THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: With an aim of convening the first meeting of ‘Loka   Sabha’ (LKS), comprising all the 141 MLAs and representatives of Malayali expats in other Indian states and abroad, in January 2018, the state government has come out with the draft of its structure and guidelines.

 The 300-member sabha, intended as a platform for formal discussions on pravasi issues, will have a five year-tenure, and will be monitored by a committee headed by the chief minister. “The   is expected to get its final shape by October, after necessary amendments in the draft and the final approval of the cabinet,” said Norka Roots CEO K N Raghavan.
 
 The government has also accorded administrative sanction of Rs 4.5 crore for the formation of the LKS, which will be convened once in a year. The funds have been earmarked for setting up the office, administration, coordination, campaign, interactive website for registration, preparation of brochures and notes, participation of outside agencies and event management groups.
 
 The LKS will have a proportional representation of expats based on their population in other states and various countries estimated by the latest Kerala migration monitoring survey report of the   (CDS).
 
 “It’s not practical to give representation based on Malayali welfare associations working abroad as several of them do not have authorization or follow clear guidelines,” the draft guideline points out.
 
 So, as per the estimated population of expats, the UAE with 8,83,000 NRKs will have 40 members in the LKS, which will be the highest representation. Saudi Arabia which is estimated to have 5,75,000 Malayali expats will have 26 members, followed by Oman (8), Kuwait and Qatar (6 each), Bahrain (5), and USA (3).
 
 Among the states, Malayalis living in Karnataka will get the highest representation (13), followed by those in   (12), Maharashtra (9), Delhi (4), Andhra Pradesh (3) and Gujarat (2).
 
 The representatives have to be nominated by the government and the total number of LKS members including the law makers should not exceed 300. Besides, a five-year tenure has been fixed for each LKS to avoid practical difficulties that might crop up if the members are replaced every year.
 
 Meanwhile, the yearly meetings of LKS will be attended by government secretaries of 10 major departments as special invitees, to facilitate effective communication on various services in place for the expats.
 
 For initiation of the LKS, its coordination and meeting, a central committee will be formed with the Norka Roots CEO as the chairman. A monitoring/assessment committee headed by the chief minister will also be formed with the Norka affairs department secretary, finance secretary and law secretary among others as its members.
 
 
