LUCKNOW: Amid the fierce electoral battle in Uttar Pradesh and clamour for Muslim, Dalit and Brahmin votes, the question haunting the political parties is who will the Rajputs vote for? The caste, comprising nearly 8% of the total population is landed and powerful socially, economically and politically, wooed by one political party or the other. They play an important role in over 100 assembly constituencies mainly in central and eastern UP. A large number of Thakur leaders, including  , are in fray in the fourth phase. 

 Traditionally, despite not being on the forefront in Congress’s support base of Brahmins Muslims and Dalits, they have enjoyed patronage and perks in the state’s bureaucracy. Vir Bahadur Singh and Vishawanath Pratap Singh were the powerful Rajput chief ministers during the Congress regime. In the social churning as aftermath of the Mandal-Mandir movements, the social support base of the Congress got disintegrated as major castes turned to parties that ensured their well-being.
 
 During the Ramjanmabhoomi movement in the early 90s, the Rajputs rallied behind the saffron camp, which was at that time the only political platform for the upper castes as the Mandal movement had given rise to birth of regional outfits dominated by the Dalit and Backward castes. Senior leader of the BJP, Rajnath Singh provided them a protective umbrella as a leader of the caste all over the state. In 1997, after BSP headed by Mayawati withdrew support from the then Kalyan Singh government, Rajnath showed his clout in the community by marshaling support of over 12 Thakur MLAs including muscleman Raghuraj Pratap Singh alias Raja Bhaiyya and played a key role in the Kalyan Singh government’s survival.
 
 Shortly, when Mayawati became chief minister of the state, she targeted Raja Bhaiyya, slapping on him POTA (prevention of terror act) and pushing him into jail. Raja Bhaiyya and his family had never indulged in any anti-national activity but Mayawati threw him into jail to send out a message to Dalits of downsizing feudal lords.
 
 Mulayam Singh Yadav fished in trouble waters and asked his party general secretary Amar Singh to take up the fight of Raja Bhaiya, who at that time was in BJP camp. The arrest of Raja Bhaiyya had incensed the Rajput community all over the state, but Mulayam ordered his release after coming to power in 2003 and won over the powerful Thakur leader. Thereafter the base of SP expanded beyond the Muslim-Yadav combination.
 
 But after Mulayam, Thakurs have not received the same treatment in the SP. Amar Singh, who was the face of the community in the party under Mulayam’s leadership, has also been shown the door by Akhilesh Yadav.
 
 Several senior Rajput ministers including Raghuraj Pratap Singh, Om Prakash Singh and Anand Singh were dismissed from the government. Raghuraj Pratap was re-inducted but was denied office for months. A good number of them, including Aridaman Singh, Anand Singh, Kuldip Singh and Prashant Singh have headed for the BJP camp giving a severe blow to the Samajwadi Party. Om Prakash Singh has been given the ticket but not before much humiliation by the party after being sacked from the government.
 
 Most of the Rajput ministers and MLAs who were in Samajwadi Party so far are now in the BJP camp and welcomed by Union home minister Rajnath Singh, who has regained support of the Rajput community.
 
 While BJP has been the preferred party after SP for Thakurs in the past, even BSP chief Mayawati has given tickets to 36 Thakur candidates, much more than the SP. 
 
