VARANASI: Recovery of 39 mobile phones in a checking drive carried out the authorities of   resented the prisoners who indulged in violence after making a prison guard hostage on Saturday. Prison guards opened several rounds of fire in air to bring situation under control.

 However, massive brick batting by prisoners continued inside the jail till the district magistrate   and SP   reached there along with heavy police force. Officials said that prisoners, who provoked others to indulge in violence had been identified while role of jail authorities is also being probed to know how the mobile phones reached inside the jail in such a large numbers.
 
 In view of the directives of   Khatri and Sen along with police and PAC had conducted a search drives in Ghazipur district jail on Friday when a mobile phones and some other objectionable articles were recovered from the possession of the prisoners. Following those recoveries the jail officials faced wrath of the DM and SP. Adopting strict attitude the jail authorities carried out a massive checking drive in all barracks on Saturday morning. It annoyed the prisoners especially the musclemen and close aides of mafia don turned politicians of east UP region.
 
 Following the recovery of 39 mobile from different barracks, Khatri said, the prisoners went on rampage. Initially they made a prison guard Sarvesh Yadav in kitchen area, though they did not cause any harm to it, admitted Khatri. But, later they indulged in brick batting. To bring the situation under control the prison guards and jail officials opened several rounds of fire in air. The high drama continued inside the jail till the DM and SP reached there and held talks with the prisoners. Khatri said that prisoners had many grievances against quality of food and sanitation. After talking to officials the prisoners returned to their barracks.
 
 Khatri said that the SP City and a SDM had been asked to probe into this incident and give report by late evening. On getting the report FIR against the prisoners responsible for the incident would be lodged, he said adding, the investigators have also been asked to enquire about how the mobile phones reached inside the jail. The ADG (Prison) GL Meena said that recovery of large number of mobile phones from the possession of prisoners inside the jail is a serious issue and after getting report from the DM necessary actions would be initiated against the jail authorities concerned.
 
