MUMBAI: Fraudsters have got a new trick up their sleeve. Taking advantage of the confusion over the new tax regime, they have started duping people by seeking their details so that bank accounts can be linked with GST. Two persons--one from   and another from Kandivli--recently fell prey to conmen who called them up and sought debit card details. The victims were told that if they do not link their accounts with GST, they will have to bear a penalty. Only business units are required to get GST updates on their bank accounts.

 Andheri resident   (34), who works with a private company , lost Rs 22,488 on Sunday when two fraudulent transactions were carried out at 11am, 30 minutes after she received the fraud call. She said she did not part with her card details and yet her money was gone in two transac tions--Rs 19,988 and Rs 2500.To add to her woes, officials at Powai police station refused to lodge an FIR and asked her approach her bank and fill up a dispute form. The bank told Saini that it will take 56 days to probe and consider reversing the transactions.
 
 Later, when Saini visited the police station with her husband, officials finally acknowledged the complaint and put a stamp on it. “I received a call around 10am and the caller claimed the bank is undergoing an upgrade and want my card details. When I denied to give my card details, the person persisted and threatened that I will have to end up paying an 18% fine. When I hung up the call, I received two transaction alerts. Even the police was non-cooperative and asked me to get in touch with the bank, which is closed on Sunday ,“ Saini told TOI. Kandivli resident, Abhis hek Pirdhankar (29), too lost Rs 24,999 to a similar call on July 14. Pirdhankar, a service engineer, has registered an FIR with the Charkop police, who are probing the case. “I was at office when I received a call from a person claiming to be a bank representative. He said they are linking my debit card with GST. The person asked me to share a one-time password that I will receive after linking my card. When I shared the details, I lost Rs 19,999 and Rs 5,000. The bank has denied to refund the money and just acknowledged my complaint so that I can register a police complaint,“ said Pirdhankar.
 
 Cyber expert   said bank employees are in cahoots with the fraudsters as it is only the bank that has all personal details. “For some reason, banks are not serious about cyber fraud,“ he claimed. Cyber advocate   too said that in some cases, bank executives may be hand in gloves with the criminals. “And police refuse to lodge FIR. Police may have their own set of problems but registering an FIR is their prime responsibility ,“ said Mali.
 
 
