Ahmedabad: Soon the six-century old Walled City of Ahmedabad will be dug for the first time to give way to the 6.7-km long underground Metrorail Express for Gandhinagar Ahmedabad (MEGA) metro rail corridor.

 The cumulative costs of this massive engineering operation will cost over Rs 1,400 crore and is one of the most complex and delicate engineering operations for MEGA. The underground metro corridor will take sharp turns almost 250 to 300 degree --18 to 20 metres beneath the surface. It is a delicate engineering operation, especially when there are dense heritage residential or commercial buildings and eight odd ASI protected monuments, just outside the 100-meter ASI limit.
 
 Huge 6.8-metre diameter Tunnel Boring Machines (TBM), each weighing close to 450 tonnes to 500 tones with almost a 100-meter long assembly will be lowered below the surface. Each of these TBMs require 1,100 kilovolts of power which will be provided by DG sets. 
 
 “The boring will begin from the Apparel Park side and Shahpur side simultaneously,” said a senior MEGA officer. 
 
 An army of engineers will then start simultaneous work on the four metro stations that will begin excavation and construction using the top down method.
 
 “We are taking extreme care when it comes to heritage buildings and old pol houses. A detailed survey is on to identify vulnerable buildings for which MEGA will offer structural support,” said a senior MEGA official.
 
 Metro station pushes 12 metro courts to Lal Darwaza
 
 With the proposed construction of an underground metro station, twelve metropolitan courts from the old collectorate campus at Gheekanta will be temporarily shifted to the Multi-Storied Building at Lal Darwaza. In an office order, the chief metropolitan magistrate constituted a committee of three judicial officers for the shifting of the courts. Additional chief metropolitan magistrates – A H Dhamani, Asmika B Bhatt and P L Patel have been asked to ensure that all facilities required for a smooth shift to Lal Darwaza are in place. The Metro Link Express for Gandhinagar and Ahmedabad Co Ltd (MEGA) will bear the expenditure of shifting the courts, the office order mentions.
 
 
