HYDERABAD: The clamour for Test cricket at smaller venues has been on the rise and skipper   lauded the crowd at the   for turning up in large numbers to support the Indian team in their excellent home run.

 For a match that nearly did not happen because of internal wrangling and a slew of cases pending in court, the   (HCA) did well to ensure the Test match was uneventful, and the 208-run over Bangladesh on the final day was icing on the cake.
 
 India have been unbeaten at home this season with New Zealand, England and now Bangladesh failing to cope with the might of the world No.1 team. Since August 2015 they have defeated Sri Lanka (2-1), South Africa (3-0) and the West Indies (2-0) before the home season started.
 
 India had routed Australia inside the distance when Hyderabad last hosted at Test match in 2013 and this home season of 13 matches will see six new venues host their first Test match. Indore, Rajkot and Visakhapatnam have already made their Test debut when England toured India and up next are Pune, Ranchi and Dharamsala when Australia come visiting -- all small centres and more enthusiastic in their response to the longer format of the game than regular Test centres.
 
 A total of 78,226 went through the turnstiles during the five-day match in Uppal. While the attendance on the first day (Thursday) was 11,014, it was 13,338 when Kohli registered his fourth successive double century on Friday. It swelled to 20,967 on Saturday and even more on Sunday when 23,377 had turned up. Monday saw 9,530 fans cheer an Indian win, a fact not lost on Kohli.
 
 “Yes, for sure,” Kohli said when his attention was drawn to the crowd support. “Even during the England series, the crowds were outstanding. This was a weekend Test match. Two days over the weekend, we expect a lot of crowd. For a Monday, the crowd was outstanding,” he said.
 
 The   had mandated that all Test centres should set aside 5,000 tickets per day for school children and the Indian skipper was full of praise for the energy they gave his team. “The school kids create great atmosphere in the stadium. They are relentless. There is so much energy. They are backing the team throughout, and that always helps the team to play exciting cricket, push themselves in difficult situations,” he said.
 
 Kohli was grateful for the support and said it’s always a nice feeling to feed off the crowd’s energy. “It is always good to have your home crowd behind you, which means a lot of people are coming to watch the games. What also matters is the kind of cricket you play, looking to win from any situation. The crowd also knows that something is going to happen at some stage. It is a give and take and the crowd was outstanding in this game too,” he added.
 
