Mumbai: United Spirits (USL), now owned by  , has for the first time outpaced key rival   in the premium and   of   during July-December period of 2016. India’s most profitable distiller Pernod Ricard has led growth charts in these segments, while   mostly lived with the tag of mass marketer in one of the largest whisky markets globally.

 USL reported 11% growth compared to Pernod Ricard’s 3% during the six-month period between July and December (both companies follow July-to-June fiscal), boosting the spirits of Diageo, which paid $3 billion for a complicated takeover from fugitive tycoon  . Diageo had justified the expensive acquisition, stating it would ride on USL’s strong distribution to premiumise the market.
 
 In absolute annual sales, Pernod Ricard’s premium and mid-priced (called prestige and above in industry parlance) brands still outsell the USL portfolio by a large margin — 43 million as against 32 million cases (of 9 litres each).
 
 USL MD Anand Kripalu said the company was making “huge progress in its strategy of making profitable brands a richer part of our sales, which now represents 60% of the overall volume”. He added that the company’s revamp of key brands, such as McDowell’s No.1 (22 million cases), Royal Challenge (5 million) and Signature (1.5 million) have seen them grow at robust double digits in recent quarters. Scotch whiskies Black Dog, Vat 69, Black & White, Johnnie Walker, and Smirnoff Vodka completes the Bengaluru-headquartered company’s premium shelf.
 
 Pernod Ricard has led the profitable segments with three blockbuster Indian whiskies — Blender’s Pride (6.2 million cases), Royal Stag (16 million) and Imperial Blue (18 million) — even as it stayed away from mass markets. While Pernod Ricard wouldn’t comment on the story, it pointed out that publicly available data on liquor sales across eight key markets, run by state corporations, shows its brands were growing at 11.8% compared to USL’s 7.3%. These markets account for nearly 40% of India’s around 330-million-case branded liquor sales annually.
 
 However, overall industry estimates suggest that the base effect is catching up with Pernod Ricard’s two biggest brands, Imperial Blue and Royal Stag, both of which have had negligible or flat growth in the first nine months of the April to March calendar. Blender’s Pride, which competes with Signature, continued to report a strong 9% rise even on a fairly large base.
 
 In contrast, USL’s McDowell’s No.1 was growing at 7%, Royal Challenge 19% and Signature at 17.4% in the same time frame, according to industry data. USL has increased the advertising and promotional spends on these brands significantly and tweaked pricing to drive growth, some industry watchers noted.
 
 India’s 200-million-case whisky market garners bulk of the profits from the prestige and above segments, though it accounts for only 38% of sales. Many global distillers consider Asia’s third largest economy to be the last frontier for their brands, if premiumisation throws up a big market opportunity. 
 
 
