Gurgaon:  , the city’s entertainment nerve centre, has been dry and quiet, lacking its usual fun quotient, for exactly a month now, ever since the   banned sale of liquor within 500 metres of highways from April 1.

 A district-level committee carried out the measurement in Cyber Hub on April 11 to assess the distance of the outlets from nearest highways, but the   is still waiting for “some more documents” to take a final call. Moreover, sources in the excise department said that there might be another round of measurement at Cyber Hub. 
 
 So, neither excise department officials nor the owners is sure when 34   and restaurants in Cyber Hub will finally get the clearance even as most of the popular names in other parts of the city, including Sector 29, are back in business.
 
 “There are a few documents related to route alignments and layouts, which have to be submitted by DLF, the developer. Once those are submitted, the committee will take a call (on the fate of the Cyber Hub outlets,” said a senior excise official, requesting anonymity.
 
 In the wake of the SC order, Cyber Hub’s entry near the Rapid Metro station next to Shankar Chowk was moved further inside Cyber City to make motorable distance more than 1km from NH-8. Though the pubs and restaurants owners claimed that the changed entry and exit points were the approved routes, the authorities want to verify the original plans before giving the clearance.
 
 When contacted, the pub and restaurant owners said that the matter had already been handed over to DLF for further communications with the authorities. “DLF is looking into the matter and is expected to submit the required documents to authorities concerned. We do not know anything beyond that,” said the owner of one the pubs.
 
 Despite repeated calls, no one from DLF commented on the issue.
 
 The delay in clearance has meant that the outlets are still counting losses. Also, around 2,500 people, who were rendered jobless after the ban on  , have gone back home as they could barely pay rents and other expenses without a job.
 
 The 34 Cyber Hub pubs and restaurants have collectively lost Rs 23.8 crore in terms of sales in the past one month. “On an average, each outlet has suffered losses between Rs 60 lakh and Rs 1.25 crore, depending on its seating capacity and reputation,” said the owner of one of the outlets. He added that there were around 50 people working with him. Though they are right now in Gurgaon, he would have to send them home if things are not sorted out soon.
 
 Another businessman, who runs two outlets in Cyber Hub, said, “I have lost around Rs 1.25 crore in sales alone. The rent and salaries are extra. Most of my employees have now gone back home. We will call them back once business resumes.”
 
 Most of the pubs, bars, restaurants and hotels are thriving again in Sector 29 following the clearance last Monday. Hotels likes The Trident, The Oberoi and The Leela, among others, are also back in business after the committee cleared them last Wednesday.
 
 
