KOCHI: Even as the city celebrates the progress of women on   today, the dismal fact is that there has been no let-up in incidents of  . Just about a couple of weeks ago a celebrity was allegedly raped in a moving car and chances of such incidents happening again could be high, shows statistics.

 According to statistics from the  , the number of rapes reported in the district has jumped 97% over the past five years.
 
 While 88   were reported in the district in 2012, in 2016, 174 such cases were registered. Compared to the previous year (2015), there was a 33% increase in the number of such cases (See table).
 
 Molestation cases in creased from 317 in 2015 to 369 in 2016. While 16 women were abducted in 2015, 91 were kidnapped in 2016. In 2015, 41 eveteasers were booked. In 2016, the figure rose to 69.
 
 While the statistics reflect an upward trend in crime against women, recent events prove that it is high time the authorities enhanced the city's security measures.
 
 Even as the police were on high alert following the alleged rape of the actor, a similar incident happened in the city. On February 25, a few days after the assault on the actor, a businessman was abducted by a gang of four and assaulted in a moving car on the  .
 
 As in the case of the actor, the man was waylaid on the road at Kakkad and the accused entered the car and drove the car around while assaulting him. They took his money and let him off near Thrikkakara. While the incident was brushed under the mat as another case of assault over financial dealings, the incident points to the fact that an abduction and assault happened on the city roads even when the cops were on alert. Experts say lack of proper surveillance is one key reason for such attacks occurring frequently. Senior police officers say that they have been forced to rely on cameras installed at private buildings as the 99 cameras installed by the police in collaboration with Keltron were dysfunctional.
 
 “Many cameras were disconnected from the server for  , while some became dysfunctional. None of the cameras are currently functioning in the city,“ said a senior police officer, adding that Keltron has submitted a report for reinstalling the cameras.
 
 There is a high likelihood of the city roads becoming all the more unfriendly for women, if police keep on going around looking for CCTV visuals from petrol bunks and supermarkets.
 
