LUCKNOW: At a time when chief minister   has issued strict instructions to   to provide sufficient supply of water during Navaratra, around 8 lakh residents of Indiranagar and Gomtinagar will reel under water crisis throughout April as irrigation department has decided to stop supply from Sharda Canal to   to facilitate cleaning work in the former. 

 Irrigation department has alerted Jal Kal supply to Kathauta Lake will stop from April 2 for about 30 days. But Jal Kal complains that irrigation department had already closed the canal’s supply for about 16 days from March 9-24, which is why they didn’t get enough time to store sufficient water for the upcoming crisis of 30 days.
 
 Jal Kal’s secretary Neeraj Gaur said, “Irrigation department has discontinued supply to Kathauta Lake many times in the last year without even bothering to inform us in advance. Earlier, they used to inform us before closing supply for cleaning, but since last year they have shut supply almost six times without alerting us for storage.” 
 
 Around 70% population in Indiranagar and Gomtinagar depends on Kathauta Lake’s supply which is solely fed through Sharda Canal of irrigation department. When this waterworks was designed, Jal Kal had an agreement with the irrigation department which said the latter can shut supply twice a year, to clean up the canal, which takes around 28-30 days. However irrigation department denied Jal Kal’s complaints saying, “We always inform Jal Kal before. We stop supply only after getting government’s approval but it is Jal Kal which is not able to store water in advance because of some technical problems in its pumps.” 
 
 Kathauta Lake has a capacity of 80 MLD and can sustain   for 28-30 days. The lake is fed daily with about 100 cusecs of Sharda Canal water. Gaur said, “Since supply was stopped abruptly for 16 days in March, we have only 8-feet deep water left in the waterworks. If irrigation department closes supply on April 2, water level can rise up to 10 feet which can last for only 17-18 days, while supply will be cut for 30 days..”
 
 Jal Kal has written continuously to senior officials of irrigation department to postpone their cleaning work for 15 days but got no response. 
 
