KOCHI: Majority of hospitals in the state offering endoscopy procedure, a nonsurgical procedure used to examine a person's digestive tract, follow the essential disinfection protocols.

 This is important in the wake of recent controversy where parent of a nine-yearold leukaemia patient tested positive for HIV alleged that his child got HIV after undergoing a blood transfusion at Regional   Centre.
 
 A paper, “Cleansing and disinfection of endoscopic instruments: Are we doing enough to protect our patients from infection?“ was recently presented at the   (  chapter) midterm conference. To know if the disinfection protocols were being followed, 35 centres performing endoscopy was studied and it was found that 97 % followed the essential disinfection protocols.
 
 Failure to properly disinfect endoscopic instruments increases the risk of transmitting   or C, HIV , TB and H. pylori. Gastroenterologists admit that about 5 % of patients who undergo procedures like colonoscopy and endoscopy are at risk of transmitting infection due to the failure of hospital authorities to ensure proper disinfection of the instruments.
 
 “Hospital-acquired infections are a worldwide problem and though not intentional, a patient who goes to a hospital is vulnerable to infection. Endoscopic instruments are passed inside the gastro-intestinal tract of the patients and have to be re used on several patients in a day. Therefore, systematic disinfection process is important,“ said Dr Rajeev Jayadevan, senior consultant gastroenterologist, Sunrise Hospital, Kochi, who conducted the study. He said that endoscopy related infections are extremely rare, in fact they occur one in about 10 lakh procedures.
 
 Cleaning and disinfection of instruments using standard equipment and chemicals is needed to prevent germs from being passed on from patient to patient. “Majority follows the established protocols and also regularly attend authorised training sessions that keeps them updated. Among those contacted, 100 % of the technicians regularly attended training sessions and 97 % followed all the essential dis infection protocols,“ said Dr Jayadevan.
 
 To bring down such cases, the   has been regularly conducting courses for endoscopy technicians.“With regular training and awareness, almost all centres are now maintaining hygiene and cleanliness,“ said Dr Benoy Sebastian, Secretary, Indian Society of Gastroenterology, Kerala chapter.
 
 However, they don't rule out human error. “The large number of procedures, patients and staff increases the chance for such errors. Training of staff and audit are important steps in maintaining flawless standards. It is important therefore to ensure that endoscopy technician be consistent in their placement and training,“ added Dr Jayadevan.
 
