Purab (Vin Rana) dances with a girl, who thanks her for saving her from a drunkard. He says that he has done a favour for her, and is expecting something in return. She misunderstands his intention and starts yelling at him, when he pulls him closer and tells her to accuse him of trying on her. He also tells the girl that he is doing it for the winner Jodi made in heaven. He asks her to call the police and tell them about Puab eve teasing her.
 
  Abhi (Shabbia Ahluwalia) and Pragya ( ) sit together and watch Purab and Tanu dance with their partners. Pragya asks Abhi if he's feeling jealous of the man who is dancing with Tanu, to which he says that initially he did feel insecure, but is glad that she is busy. He also tells Pragya that if she dances with another man, he would break that man's legs.
  
  Pragya asks what does she mean to Abhi, and the duo share a romantic moment gazing into each other's eyes.
  
  While Purab is dancing with the girl, she slaps him and accuses him of misbehaving with her. She stops the music and yells at him. She calls for the police. The police comes to take Purab and he tells the police that he had misbehaved with the girl under the influence of liquor. Police later takes Purab in custody.
  
  Tanu ( ) calls Alia ( ) and tells her everything, when the latter says that Purab can never do this.
  
  Abhi is confused about why Purab did this thing. Abhi and Pragya are about to leave for the police station when Tanu tries to stop him and says that if he leaves this time then she will think that he loves Pragya more than her. Abhi doesn't give a second thought and leaves.
  
  
 
  
  Abhi requests the police inspector to set Purab free from the jail when he refuses saying that he would have to spend a night in the jail. Purab gets beaten by the cops and Pragya gets worried on seeing his bruises. Purab confesses that whatever he has done, he has done it purposely.
  
  Keep watching this space for more updates.   airs on Zee TV at 9 pm, Monday to Friday.
  
  
 
  
  
 
