CHENNAI: A sexual abuse case initiated by a   against her own father and brother has been quashed by  , which found that she had lied to police, copied a complaint available with a child help line and suffered from schizophrenia.

  It turned out that the girl lodged such an outrageous complaint because her father was strict and often reprimanded her for poor academic performance. She somehow wanted to get out of her home and stay in hostel.
 
 Justice R Mahadevan, quashing the FIR, said: “A plain reading of the FIR would show that the entire proceedings are maliciously instituted with ulterior motive to wreak vengeance against them. Furthermore, the findings rendered by the Schizophrenia Research Foundation, Chennai for psychological evaluation (psychotic treatment) would show that the girl does not have capacity to think about the outcome of her behavior and that she copied the complaint letter verbatim as written by one Sharmi from the Child Help Line. She wanted to stay in a hostel and wrote a complaint against her father and brother and failed to think about the consequence of her action. In view of the above stated circumstances the impugned FIR pending on the file of Reddiyar Palayam police is quashed.”
 
  In her complaint, the Class 9 girl alleged that her father had sexually abused her before she attained puberty and that her brother had taken photograph while she was taking bath. Police booked the case for offences punishable Section 6 of POCSO Act, and arrested her father on April 16, 2016.
 
  It was the high court which found something amiss, as the complaint was too neat, without any mistake or overwriting. It asked the police to produce the girl before it on June 14, 2016, when it found that she was not even able to read the complaint properly.
 
  Then the court referred the girl for conducting psychiatric tests and found out that she wanted to stay away from home and that she copied the complaint written by a help line volunteer Sharmi, whom the girl met at an awareness programme in her school.
 
  The court found she was intellectually below average and did not have capacity to think about the consequences of her acts and behavior.
 
  The father’s counsel told the court that she had to change three schools due to her poor academic performance, and that she found her present school too strict. The girl was unable to differentiate between right and wrong acts, he said.
 
  Quashing the FIR, the judge also pointed out that there was no pornographic picture available to implicate the father and brother to the alleged crime.
 
 Earlier Reddiarpalayam police in the union territory of Puducherry registered a case under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012, and arrested the father in April 2016.
 
