KOLKATA: Recovering from the two hurricanes that lashed southern American coast, the Bengalis in Houston and Florida had all but given up hope of celebrating Durga Puja this year. But they have managed to bounce back and the festivities have already begun. 

 Houston, badly affected by the floods following Hurricane Harvey, is still recovering. But Houston Durga Bari, which has one of the largest pujas in north America, has geared up to celebrate the festival with fervour. It was the Houston Durga Bari Puja that won the first edition of Biswa Bangla   (international category) presented by  .
 
 “In the aftermath of the hurricane, we worked from Durga Bari to organize relief for those in distress. Thereafter, we began focusing on the festival that first began in Houson in 1975. The Puja is conducted by volunteer priests, led by  , over four days. We follow all rituals and dedicated volunteers prepare the naibidya, bhog and dadhikarma. We have about 3,500 attendees from all over Houston, Texas and other states,” recounted Partha Sarathi Chatterjee, one of the organizers.
 
 This year, Houston’s stage will bring together eight artists — Haimanti Shukla, Jimut, Chandrika, Aritro-Somchanda and Soumyojit-Sourendro — to rock the crowd.
 
 In Orlando, the Bengali Society of Florida ( ) — established in 1982 with members from Orlando, Tampa, Miami and Jacksonville — started the three-day Puja celebrations on Friday. Last year, they had to postpone the festivities by a week due to Hurricane Mathew. This year, too, the members had anticipated a postponement if Hurricane Irma caused widespread damage to coastal cities. 
 
 But to their huge relief, the hurricane lost intensity at the eleventh hour and changed course. 
 
 “The usual disruption to our lives apart, it was the potential delay in Durga Puja that was playing on our minds. We are thankful that all members of the society are safe and there is no major damage. Everyone is now geared for a great weekend full of Bengali food, adda and a great time,” said Pradip Gupta of BSF. The society will host singer Rupankar Bagchi this year. 
 
 Of the five Bengali communities that organize Durga Puja in Florida, one is Soikot in Tampa Bay where residents had a close call as Hurricane Irma grazed the town. Puja preparations have now started with members rehearsing songs, dance sequences and skits. The festival has been scheduled over the September 29-October 1 weekend. “We expect around 350 adults and 50 kids this year. This is the biggest Bengali event of the year celebrated around Tampa Bay and we do see friends gather from neighbouring cities,” said Jyoti Sarkar of Soikot. Soikot has invited WAHH World Fusion and Anupam Roy to perform this year. 
 
