PANAJI: A day after the Supreme Court   the sale of liquor within 500 metres of national and state highways, most owners of bars and liquor outlets appeared to be in a state of shock over their decades-old livelihood, as more than 3,000 of them face a  .

 STOI travelled across the national highway and state highway routes within the state to catch the mood among bar owners.
 
 Most bar owners were ready to cooperate in true spirit, but were trying to grapple with the reality, as the ban got implemented on April 1. Excise officials visited their premises and compelled a few errant owners to adhere to the ban.
 
 Ramesh Salkar, who runs a wine shop, next to NH-17 at Colvale, said that the ban will affect his livelihood. “The Supreme Court should have also thought about an alternate source of income for us to survive,” Salkar said. He expressed apprehensions that even the drug business may flourish in the state. “What is our future and who will take care of our family?” Salkar questioned.
 
 Many bar owners are worried about disposing the liquor stock lying in their premises.   from Dhargalim said that he was having sleepless nights as there was a lot of stock lying in his shop. “We have a stock worth Rs 50 lakh, but we don’t know what to do with it,” Padlosker said.
 
 Santosh Mashelkar, the owner of a hotel in Bicholim, said that he was expecting a 60% drop in business at his restaurant. “After that, I’ll have to retrench staff to keep the business going. Lay-offs by restaurants will result in more unemployment,” he added.
 
 Gokuldas Naikbar owner and president Canacona liquor association, said, “Due to the decision of the SC, we are left nowhere in life, our family has no source of income. Even after paying revenue every year, we are being treated as thieves. 
 
 He further added that at least four to five families are dependent on a single bar and restaurant. This decision will also affect vendors selling chicken, mutton and vegetables. He also said that starting a new business at the age of 55 would be very difficult for him. “It will take another two to three years to settle down in a new business. Till then, how to look after my family? questions Gokuldas Naik. 
 
 The border areas, such as Polem and Loliem in Canacona, and Molem in Dharbandora, usually enjoy a good business, catering to the visitors from nearby areas. But now, the scenario will change, sources said.
 
 A Polem-based bar and restaurant owner, Mario Fernandes, had a similar concern over his two bar and restaurants. His father had set up the business in 1964 and the family sustained itself with its income.
 
 “About 80% customers are from Karnataka and they will not visit Goa, as they have eateries back home,” a restaurateur said.
 
 In Loliem, around 50 bars, 17 liquor outlets and   shops will have to shut while only two bars on Polem beach remain operational. 
 
 A wine store owner, Diwakar Pagi from Palolem, said that he was unaffected by the ban but would still support his co-traders. 
 
 
