BHOPAL: All India Muslim Tyohar Committee (AIMTC), Bhopal, has issued a resolution to boycott the movie 'Lipstick Under My Burkha' and its cast. They claimed that the film, directed by   and produced by Prakash Jha, have hurt the sentiments of the community by relating showing the burkha in a bad light.

 Apart from boycotting, the Muslim body has also also warned the director, crew and cast against visiting the state capital. Talking to TOI, Ausaf Shahmeeri Khurram, president of All Indian  , said, “How narrow can a person think? Those who have scripted and directed this movie have insulted our religious sentiments. A burkha is considered pious and even a religious principle. If anyone disgraces our principles like this, we will take strict action against them. AIMTC’s Mumbai unit has already initiated a legal action on the matter. Protest will be taken to highest possible level.”
 
 The film revolves around four women - a burkha-clad college girl, a young beautician, a mother of three and a 55-year-old widow who is rediscovering her sexuality. Some parts of the movie was shot in Bhopal. 'Lipstick Under My Burkha' won the Spirit of Asia Award at the Tokyo International Film Festival and the Oxfam Award for Best Film on Gender Equality at the Mumbai Film Festival. The reasons given by Censor Board for refusing to clear it are "sexual scenes, abusive words, audio pornography and a bit sensitive touch about one particular section of society."
 
 Thanking to Censor Board, Khurram said, “We are happy that the Censor Board has refused to give a certificate to movie. But if the certification is given by any chance, we will also move towards taking legal action against the movie. Today they are making fun of women from a certain community. If not stopped, they might target women of other communities too.”
 
 However, Zulfikar Ali, a local film production consultant who has also worked with Prakash Jha, said, “I think we should see the movie first and then decide. If, after watching it, we feel that it indeed hurts sentiments, then we will support the boycott.”
 
 When TOI spoke to Surendra Patwa, minister of state for culture and tourism, he said, "The matter is still pending with the Censor board.   government welcomes all filmmakers and helps them with all permissions. So right now we are not involved in it anyways.”
 
