New Delhi: The Delhi Pradesh Congress Committee ( ) will kick-start its campaign for the upcoming   from Ramlila Maidan on March 7. Party vice-president Rahul Gandhi will take part in the event, which is expected to draw over a lakh people.

 DPCC chief   called a meeting on Monday evening to discuss the roadmap for the municipal polls. “We have already started a door-to-door campaign in order to connect with the masses and we have received good response. We have directed all party workers, block and district presidents to ensure that enough publicity is done to make people aware of the next week’s rally,” said Maken.
 
 He pointed out that the results of the corporation bypolls in May last year had gone in favour of Congress—the party won five seats. “In the bypolls, people had voted for Congress, which explains that they are tired of the current government. We are hopeful that Congress will have the majority in all the three municipal corporations in this election,” he said.
 
 Maken claims that this time around, the party has received over 10,000 applications from aspiring candidates. 
 
 “We have set a criterion this time. People who wish to contest polls will have to give five references of Congress workers from each booth. This amounts to around 250 references per candidate. We are accepting forms from those people who have given 250 references of Congress workers from their respective areas,” said Maken.
 
 Meanwhile, the party has also set up a call centre to verify the references given by the ticket seekers. “It is important to run a verification process to ensure there are no fake references and we have deployed 14 people for the job. We have received a list of 2 lakh references from different areas. Upon verification, about 94,000 were found to be genuine,” Maken added.
 
 Maken told TOI that the Congress vice-president would unveil a “chargesheet” of the failures of the Kejriwal government and dismal performance of   in the three municipal corporations in the past 10 years. “Congress workers will be asked to distribute the chargesheet to the people of Delhi during the door-to-door campaign,” said Maken.
 
 Maken claims that the ongoing tussle between AAP and BJP will prove fruitful for Congress in upcoming elections. “The people of Delhi have become allergic to the constant tussle between AAP and BJP. All development work has come to a standstill in the capital and instead of progressing, Delhi has gone in reverse mode under the present dispensation,” said Maken.
 
