PATNA: The recent move of the   to appoint   service officials as university registrars instead of teachers is being   by academics of the state.

 The Bihar State Universities (Amendment) Bill, 2017 and the Patna University (Amendment) Bill, 2017 approved by the state legislature envisage appointment of retired civil administration officials like ADMs as the   of universities, a position hitherto confined to teachers. This amendment has reportedly been made by the state government to “implant administrative skill” in the universities and “regulate” the functioning of the universities.
 
 Earlier, the Bihar Public Service Commission or the Bihar State University (Constituent Colleges) Service Commission used to appoint registrars through open advertisement and usually teachers became registrars. In 1993, an auxiliary provision was introduced through Section 15 of the Bihar State Universities Act, 1976 and the Patna University Act, 1976, empowering the chancellor to appoint the registrar out of a panel recommended by the state government, the university concerned or the UGC.
 
 Even the minimum qualifications laid down by the UGC for appointment of registrars include 15 years of experience as assistant professor in the Academic Grade Pay (AGP) of Rs 7,000 or with eight years of service as associate professor in the AGP of Rs 8,000. Now, however, a government official, who has never worked in a university, can easily be appointed as a registrar.
 
 Academics wonder as to how these “administrative” registrars will ensure smooth functioning of the universities. “Varsities, which already have state government nominees as financial advisers and finance officers, have been facing financial irregularities for a long time. Despite their services, universities are often blamed for not furnishing utilization certificates to the government on time,” said a source, adding the officials also failed to prepare the annual budgets on time.
 
 Federation of University Teachers’ Associations of Bihar working president Kanhaiya Bahadur Sinha apprehended that the government was trying to increase bureaucratic control over the universities and do away completely with the university autonomy. “The recent actions of the government show that the participation of academics in the running the university administration is being reduced to the minimum. More than half the strength of the proposed state level university service panel supposed to appoint university teachers will be filled up by administrative officials,” he said.
 
 
