AHMEDABAD: The Union Public Service Commission ( ) has declared the results of civil services (main) examination, 2016 on its official website on Wednesday and 31 students of Sardar Patel Institute of Public Administration (SPIPA), Ahmedabad, cleared the exam. 

 The examination was held from December 3 to December 9, 2016. Around 15,145 students have qualified for the interviews from across the state. Only five girls from SPIPA have qualified for the exams. Last year, 37 students from   had cleared UPSC mains exam. The interviews for the exams will begin on March 20 and will continue till May.
 
 Various students from average socio-economic backgrounds have cleared the exams. One of them is  , a resident of Surat, whose father is a diamond cutter. “I cleared the UPSC mains exam in the third attempt. While last year I did clear the mains exams, I couldn’t get through the interviews. I look forward to a good rank. I believe persistent hard work and dedication will help me achieve success.”
 
 Commenting on the results, Anita Karwal, director-general, SPIPA – Ahmedabad, said, “Around 144 students of SPIPA had qualified for UPSC mains. Of these, 31 have cleared the exams. After the interviews will be done, their ranks will be decided.”
 
 Sharing his journey, Kirnendu Arya, a student of KB Institute of Pharmacy in   who cleared the exam, said, “I have been preparing for the exams since 2011. Initially my concepts weren’t clear and therefore I faced difficulties. I made my first attempt in 2013 however failed to clear it. In 2014, I cleared the interview and got 1,106 rank and later got a job in accounting services. I appeared for the exam in 2016 again and cleared it. I look forward to a good performance.”
 
 Mamta Popat, who completed MBA from GLS, said, “I did not qualify last year, lagging behind by just two marks. This is my fourth attempt at UPSC exams and I have cleared the mains exams twice. However, I couldn’t get through the interview process. I aspire to be an IAS officer and hope this time I perform well and clear the interview.”
 
 
