AURANGABAD: The Regional  , Mumbai has doubled the number of daily appointments at the newly open Post Office Passport Seva Kendra (POPSK) in Aurangabad, bringing down the waiting period from 30 days to around a fortnight now.

 Earlier, the waiting time for   was the maximum when compared with all the 11 passport officers within the jurisdiction of Mumbai passport office. The centre used to handle only 50 appointments, but now the number has increased to 100.
 
 As per the official data, appointment for document verification will be available by April 24 if online registration and booking was done by Saturday.
 
 Swati Kulkarni, regional passport officer, Mumbai could not be reached for comments. However, other competent officials said number of appointments per day at Aurangabad POPSK has been increased to clear the rush of applications.
 
 “We were observing teething troubles for the newly started POPSK in Aurangabad. The initial quantum of appointments has now been increased to 100 per day. As said earlier, we are committed for public-friendly services, which is the sole aim of starting the POPSK facility,” an official said.
 
 Incidentally, the Kolhapur POPSK that comes under the purview of   — launched a few days before the Aurangabad facility — has witnessed a rise in the waiting time unlike the Aurangabad POPSK.
 
 The waiting period for the Kolhapur facility has gone up to around two months as compared to the earlier waiting period of one-and-a-half month. Still, only 50 appointments are being released per day.
 
 The POPSK at Daman, which is also newly pressed into service, has a two-day waiting time for document verification appointment. Among other facilities, Passport Seva Kendra (PSK), Malad and Parel have a waiting time of around four and five days, respectively.
 
 PSK Andheri, which has a waiting time of around nine days, is next to Aurangabad POPSK in terms of time required between online application and appointment for document verification.
 
 The reduced waiting time at Aurangabad passport facility, meanwhile, has brought smiles on faces of many residents.
 
 “It’s good news indeed and compliments to passport authorities for bringing down the waiting period to half. The city and the region were deprived of passport facility for a long time and the huge rush of applications now is natural,” said Akash Bhandekar, a local resident.
 
 Applicants from the city and the region earlier had to go Mumbai or other metro cities for getting passport, which used to be a costly affair. Aurangabad had a passport office, through which manual applications used to be accepted, but the facility was closed down upon the orders from the regional passport office, Mumbai in January 2013 after online application process was initiated to issue passports.
 
 Aurangabad mayor   said the civic body would extend all possible support to POPSK Aurangabad. “Several residents of Aurangabad and Marathwada had faced hardship in absence of the passport facility. As the desired facility has become reality now, we will ensure passport facility at Aurangabad offers best possible service to applicants,” he said.
 
 Thrown open to public service on March 28 on the occasion of Gudi Padwa, the Aurangabad POPSK was set up following the MEA and   announced to utilise the Head Post Offices (HPO) in various states as POPSK with an aim to extend passport services on a larger scale.
 
