CHENNAI: Hours before she was to surrender on Wednesday,   appointed her nephew TTV Dinakaran as AIADMK’s deputy general secretary to helm the party in her absence. In what could be seen as an ambitious move to wield control of the party despite her conviction in a DA case, she re-inducted into the party Dinakaran and a second nephew, S Venkatesh. Jayalalithaa had expelled the two along with 12 others, including Sasikala and her husband M N Natarajan, in December 2011 for “treacherous” acts against her. 

 While Sasikala was reinducted three months later following a public apology for the “treacherous acts of her family members”, others were never again allowed into Poes Garden by the late chief minister. 
 
 The emerging power centre was visible when Dinakaran sat by Sasikala’s side when she met governor C   Rao on February 9 to stake claim to form the state government. He also accompanied   when he visited the Raj Bhavan on Wednesday. 
 
 “He is a good team leader and an acceptable face among the cadres as he takes everyone into his fold,” said one of his former associates. “There was talk among seniors that Dinakaran should take over as general secretary but that did not happen,” he said, adding, “It came as no surprise that Dinakaran became the war room manager for Sasikala after Jayalalithaa’s death.” 
 
 Dinakaran’s rise in public life began at Periakulam, the home turf of TN’s caretaker chief minister O Panneerselvam. The Sasikala family’s clout in Poes Garden was evident when Dinakaran was fielded from the Periakulam parliamentary constituency in the 1999 elections. 
 
 The outsider won by a margin of 45,000 votes, thanks to his poll manager O Panneerselvam, who was then the Periakulam municipal chairman. Dinakaran had stayed in OPS’s house during the campaign. The modest and hardworking Panneerselvam caught the attention of Dinakaran, which resulted in OPS taking over the hot seat of CM thrice, when Jayalalithaa had to vacate the seat following legal impediments. 
 
 When Dinakaran failed to wrest the seat for a second term in 2004, Jayalalithaa offered him a   seat within months. But the elder son of Vanithamani, Sasikala’s sister, was shown the door along with his brothers V   and V N Sudhakaran, the disowned foster son of Jayalalithaa, in 2011. “He could enter (the party) only after Amma’s demise,” said   leader Karuppasamy Pandian, who resigned from the post of organising secretary to protest against Dinakaran’s appointment. 
 
 Jayalalithaa had kept the post vacant for nearly 17years. Incidentally, the Madras high court has confirmed an order of the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act appellate board imposing a penalty of Rs 28 crore on Dinakaran in a case initiated by the Enforcement Directorate in 1996. The case was related to the receipt of over $10 million by Dinakaran in alleged contravention of FERA.
