Having endured a slump in form since his epic triple hundred in the Chennai Test against England in December, batsman  's woes deepened on Sunday when he was dropped from the 16-man Indian Test squad for the Sri Lanka tour, which begins with the first game at Galle on July 26.

 In their first full-fledged tour to the island nation in eight years, India will play three Tests, five ODIs and one T20I against the hosts during the tour. The other two Tests will be played at Colombo and Pallekele.
 
 Openers   and   made a comeback after recovering from their injuries as the threeman national selection committee, led by former India stumper MSK Prasad, picked the team via Skype (two of the selectors were in the West Indies with the Indian team) on Sunday evening. Nair was replaced by  , who had missed a major part of India's previous Test season at home after suffering a thigh injury on October 29.
 
 Led by  , the Indian team will be accompanied by a new coach who would replace leg-spin great  , who quit in acrimonious circumstances after the ICC Champions Trophy last month. Chinaman Kuldeep Yadav, who made an impressive debut in the final Test against Australia at Dharamsala, will be the third spinner in the team, besides R Ashwin and  . However, there was no place for all-rounder Jayant Yadav, who impressed in the series against England.
 
 Nair emerged as a sensation when he cracked an unbeaten 303, but has since struggled to cope with expectations. The 25-year-old's scores in the following series against Australia read 26, 0, 23 & 5 -54 runs in four innings. He also had poor return in the few First class games he played.
 
 The Karnataka youngster's axing looked imminent when he was named as captain of the India 'A' team which, with batting legend   as its coach, will tour South Africa to play two four-day games against SA 'A' in August -the same time as the Lanka tour. Nair is also a part of the India 'A' One-day team on that tour.
 
 Having cracked three crucial half-centuries against New Zealand at home last year, Rohit had finally looked like cementing his place in the Test side, before a serious injury forced him into a long layoff. The selectors are now looking to repose their vote of confidence in him as a Test batsman. "He's looked in good touch in his comeback. It was only because of an injury that he had to go out. Karun is definitely in the scheme of things, and will make a comeback anytime. Right now, the selectors want him to rediscover his confidence and form on the A tour to South Africa, where Rahul Dravid's guidance should help him bounce back from this slump," a source told TOI.
 
 Both Rahul and Vijay had to miss IPL-10 after suffering from shoulder injuries and underwent surgeries. Their return to full fitness should strengthen the opening department. Abhinav Mukund has retained his spot as the third opener.
 
 
 
 Virat Kohli (Captain), M Vijay, KL Rahul,  , Ajinkya Rahane (vice-captain), Rohit Sharma, R Ashwin, R Jadeja, W Saha (wk), Ishant Sharma, Umesh Yadav, Hardik Pandya, Bhuvneshwar Kumar, M Shami, Kuldeep Yadav, Abhinav Mukund.
 
 
 
 
 Rohit Sharma, Hardik Pandya (was out of the final two Tests against Australia at home due to a shoulder injury) 
 
 
 Karun Nair, Jayant Yadav
 
