After all the negative news surrounding the city since 2017 began, here’s something that’s bound to put a smile on your face. According to the JLL City Momentum Index, Bengaluru has beaten every other city in the world to emerge as the most dynamic city. And it is 
 ’s capacity to support technology and innovation that helped clinch the top spot. Interestingly, the city topped the same index for Asia Pacific last year. We spoke to prominent people in the city, who have mixed reactions to the finding.

 
 
 Bengaluru is a dynamic city, but I don’t know about it being the most dynamic city in the world. That’s a tough call. We haven’t really seen much in terms of new products being developed here. There is a lot of dynamism in startups, but there’s nothing really innovative going on there. With IISc, as well as many other academic institutions here, it is a good place for innovation, as you need academics for innovation. But I don’t think that we are at the level of, say,  .
 — Prof  , professor, Indian Institute of Astrophysics 
 
 
 
 Bengaluru is a dynamic city in terms of ideas and cosmopolitanism. This is because we have people from all over, who have come to the Startup City with dreams, and are working to fulfill them. This city is a critical mass of talent, which is driving the startup culture and dynamism. This can be sustained with intelligent planning. We can’t let the city develop unplanned anymore. We need to engage citizens. Also, our traffic is not dynamic. There should be policies to increase mass transit, with access to different parts of the city.
 —  , urban designer
 
 
 
 It is good that there is much interest in investing in the city, but the lack of support for deep democratic governance, erratic decision-making and support to privileged and elite projects has divided the city. Which Bengaluru is the index speaking of? There are many Bengalurus within Bengaluru. There is distress due to the nature of infrastructure and the fact that problems such as water, health, solid waste, education and traffic are not tackled keeping all the people in mind. The government must be elated that Bengaluru is at the top, but most Bengalureans won’t be.
 —  , environmentalist
 
 
  
 
 
 Out of the 10 million population, there are 1.7 million people who work in the KPO and BPO sector. The city’s total IT business last year was $50 billion. There are over 25,000 IT companies, and around 7,200 startups here, and, in the last calendar year, 1,500 startups with $2 billion capital came up. This year, Bengaluru will see 2.5 lakh jobs in the technology and startup sectors. Bengaluru requires a massive push for public mobility from the government, so that it can retain and enhance its brand equity as the most vibrant, innovative city in the country.
 — TV  , tech investor
 
 
 
 Bengaluru is India’s most international city, which the entire country envies and tries to emulate. But such a tag comes with responsibility, so it’s time the government, corporates and citizens get together to prove that we are truly the most dynamic city. How can we sustain this position? We lack a partnership between the government and citizens. Every government move is done in a gross arbitrary pattern, without public opinion. We have so many brilliant minds in Bengaluru, and it is high time the government takes advantage of this.
 —  , fashion guru
 
 
 
 Depending on this kind of an endorsement indicates a lack of self-esteem on our part. Recent events have damaged the ‘safe city’ image of Bengaluru. It is our responsibility to restore the factors that supported us in emerging on top of the index. Our city can change and become a better place. We need a sustainable approach to ecology and conservation, water management systems, infrastructure and public transportation facilities, protection of lakes and the green cover, pedestrian safety, as well as more satellite towns.”
 —  , artist and activist
 
 (With inputs from   and Stuti Agarwal)
 
