PUNE: The densification of the city, where more construction is concentrated, may appear as good news for infrastructural management and centralised development, but it is having an adverse effect on the city's weather making the   more intense and troublesome. 

 As a result, the city’s 'urban heat island effect' is increasing, the Environmental Status Report ( ) of   (PMC) tabled in the general body (GB) meeting on Friday stated. 
 
 The term heat island describes the built-up areas getting hotter than the nearby surrounding areas. Urban heat islands develop as heat is emitted from a range of built-up surfaces under favourable meteorological conditions.
 
 The concept has come up in the ESR for the first time. The report highlighted that though the building permission in the city has gone down, FSI consumption has gone up __an FSI of 42.97 lakh square metres was consumed in the city in 2016-17, which is more by around 10.94 lakh square metres compared to the previous year. “With concreting going up in the city, bearing the heat has become tough. We have suggested steps like heavy tree plantation. Use of high solar reflective index paint on the rooftops of the buildings is another option to reduce the impact,” Mangesh Dighe, environmental officer of PMC, told TOI.
 
 City engineer Prashant Waghmare said densification is an urban planning phenomenon used worldwide for better infrastructure management. 
 
 “Use of public transport can be promoted through densification. We can provide other infrastructural facilities such as roads, water supply and sewage in a better manner if there is densification,” he said.
 
 An analysis made by   highlighted the effect of these heat islands. Over the past 15 years, the highest rise in land surface temperature has been observed over the built-up area of Pune, where buildings and structures have increased in the last decade. The average temperature rise in such areas has been over three degrees celsius from April 2001 to April 2016, the analysis found.
 
 The average land surface temperature over built-up city areas has increased by 3.9 degrees celsius in April 2016 as compared to April 2001. 
 
 The rise in the average land surface temperature over Pune's barren land during this period has been around 2.9 degrees celsius, around 1.3 degrees over the city's water bodies and 1.4 degrees over its sparse vegetation.
 
