NAGPUR: Some 15% students in the 18 to 25 age group in the city are addicted to the internet. Boys are more prone to   than girls, using it specifically for online shopping, which is contrary to expectations, two research studies have found.

 The studies titled ‘Psychodynamics of  : A comparative study’ and ‘An Analytical Study of Smartphone Addiction Among Engineering Students: Gender differences’ have been conducted by PhD scholar Shilpa Bisen. She carried out the study under the supervision of Yogesh Deshpande, associate professor at the department of humanities at Visvesvaraya   (VNIT).
 
 The study on internet addiction was conducted on students aged 18 to 25 from engineering, medical, BTech, MTech, BArch, nursing, physiotherapy, BAMS, computer science, arts and management faculties at various colleges in the city.
 
 Bisen surveyed 1,600 students and found that 250 had excessive internet use problem. Of the 250, 143 were male while 107 were female. The surveys were conducted between July 2015 and December 2016. She used a self-designed scale and Kimberly Young scale for the study.
 
 “As an independent study, it was huge data collection. It has been done to identify the sample. In big cities, OPDs have been started for people addicted to online gambling, games etc. Our purpose is to check the prevalence of this trend in tier-II cities like Nagpur. In the second part, the study would be done on the identified addicts,” said Deshpande.
 
 Bisen said the findings would be used to study the impact of this addiction on maladjusted behaviour. “Depression, anxiety, personality and impulsivity would be the four focus areas. The study will check how addicted people react in case of interruption in their internet experience,” Bisen said.
 
 In her research on smartphones, which has been published in ‘The International Journal of Indian Psychology’, the VNIT scholar has investigated the dependence on applications with the advent of touch screen phones. She surveyed 100 engineering students to measure amount, duration and pattern of their smartphone usage. She found that 84% of the participants fell under high level of smartphone addiction. Of this, 45 participants were male while 39 were females.
 
 As per the study variables, 8.38% of males used health apps while only 7.78% females did so. Communication apps too were more popular among males at 15.3%, as compared to females (13.9%). However, in entertainment apps, female students scored more at 6.42% than 6.28 % for boys.
 
 Interestingly, more males were found to be using shopping apps at 16.26% than females (15.5%).
 
 Warning about psychological complications, Bisen said, “In future, these numbers are likely to touch 30% as day by day human dependence on technology is increasing. This means 30 out of every 100 youths may require psychotherapeutic intervention to control their addiction to the internet and various apps.” 
 
