MUMBAI: Citizens are facing difficulty enrolling for   ahead of the July 31 deadline for linking it to  . In several places,   centres have shut, elsewhere the server is down. Similar scenes are witnessed in Fort, Parel, Andheri, Jogeshwari and even Thane.

 The Central government ‘s UIDAI department has passed on the responsibility for preparing Aadhar cards to state governments. Maharashtra has outsourced the task to private firms since it does not have the requisite in-house staff to handle the voluminous exercise.
 
 “Fort has two   but since they only give 30 applications day, people queue up as early as 6am. I am trying to apply since a week. On Monday too, they said the server was down,” said mediaperson Sandesh Thakur. His colleague Srinjani tried at two private centres in Andheri East where one rep said his “computer was stolen” and the other that his was “under repair”.
 
 Aadhar   has been made mandatory for all individuals filing online tax returns on or after July 1. Assessees must quote either the Aadhar or their registration number to show they have applied. Cellphone operators are also demanding that it be linked to phone numbers.
 
 A UIDAI official at the central office in Cuffe Parade said, “Some Aadhar centres have been closed but others have opened. The details are updated online. Even certain post offices like GPO now have Aadhar centres. It is unfortunate that people are waking up now given that Aadhar was started in 2010. Even if they do not manage to enrol by July 31, they can still file income tax returns manually and despatch the document by post to Bengaluru.”
 
 “I visited two centres in Parel last week only to be asked to return after having waited for hours. Some centres are handing out 30 enrolment coupons a day but are still unable to cope with the daily rush,” said Radhika Sikka who works in the redeveloped mill area of Parel.
 
 On Monday, the permanent Aadhar centres in Behram Baug, Jogeshwari West, as well as Jogeshwari caves precinct on the east side were doing their best to accommodate applicants. Priti Sawant who manages the Behram Baug centre said, “This branch opens at 9am but people say they queue up at 6am. Although we function till 5.30pm, there is always a spillover to the next day. It takes 15-20 minutes to scan each applicant. We are helpless.”
 
 In Jogeshwari East, Vikrant Shingre said his centre functions from 7pm to 9pm. “The operator works a day job and arrives here in the evening.”
 
 In Kalyan West, around 70 applicants who registered on July 8-9 were told their enrolment was cancelled owing to a technical fault. “There was an error at the UIDAI end. But we rang each individual and alerted them to register once more,” said Nilesh Bhate who runs this private enrolment centre. The applicants did not have to pay twice, though Nilesh did suffer losses in the repeat exercise. Thane’s Arundhati Khanna said, “On the official website there are several Aadhar centres but actually only two are operational in Thane city. One is at Yashwant Tower, the other at Lodha building on Ghodbunder Road. It was not operational for several days last month since servers were down. People don’t know this so they keep arriving.”
 
 Shailesh Mishra, who runs an NGO for the elderly, complained that seniors whose fingerprints are not recognisable due to old age are unable to link documents. “In Mira Road, I saw an old lady trying to link her SIM card to Aadhar but failed four times as the machine did not recognize her fingerprint.” Mishra sought mobile van services in societies and institutions for seniors and the disabled.
 
 
