Thiruvananthapuram: A museum dedicated to former president and space scientist   was opened here on Thursday.

 Former chairman of the Indian Space Research Organization (ISRO)   inaugurated the Dr Kalam Smriti International Science and   at Punalal in Vellanad, around 22 km from the city.
 
 Speaking at the function, Shaiju David Alfi, CEO of the museum said that it has been dedicated to the nation with a hope that future generations of Indian youth would be inspired to achieve greatness by following the humble life led by Dr APJ Abdul Kalam.
 
 “I had been closely associated with Kalam Sir since 2010. Our institution is located in a rural area and it was his inspiration to develop the concept of PURA (Providing Urban Amenities to Rural Areas), a strategy for rural development in India and to create awareness on space among youth and children. This vision of Kalam Sir inspired us to form Dr Kalam Smriti International Science and Space Museum,'' he said.
 
 Among the exhibits was a replica of India’s heavy-lift launch vehicle GSLV Mk-III. “I think it’s for the first time that ISRO and VSSC have provided their models for other institutions. The model of GSLV Mk-III that was recently launched is officially available for us,” Alfi said.
 
 The museum, affiliated to the ministry of youth affairs and culture and youth welfare board, was funded by the committee members of Dr Kalam Smriti International, and well-wishers.
 
 Alfi said the museum had not approached the state and central governments for financial aid.
 
 The museum also has personal memorabilia of the late president, his rare photographs and miniature models of rockets, satellites, etc. and inspiring quotes of Dr Kalam.
 
 The first exhibit in the museum is an image of Rameshwaram, where Dr Kalam began his humble journey of life, his teachings and his journey to the Rashtrapathi Bhavan as the President of India.
 
 The museum could be visited between 10 am and 4 pm on Tuesdays and Thursdays. A short film, 'The Missile Man', would be screened on these days.
 
 
