Coimbatore: The Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) plans to focus on the tri-junction area located between Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Karnataka following intelligence information that Maoist activities are taking place in the Western Ghats, Rajeev Rai Bhatnagar, director general of CRPF said.

 “The state and central forces have taken note in a coordinated manner and have formulated an action plan. We will take steps to maintain security in these areas,” he said. 
 
 Bhatnagar was in Coimbatore to attend the passing out parade of the 90{+t}{+h} batch of 100 directly-appointed subordinate officers at the central training college. The director general said that they have planned to add five more battalions to CRPF and five exclusive women battalions by January in Rapid Action Force. “At present, 20,000 new recruits are undergoing training and will join the force in the coming months,” he informed. 
 
 Talking about the need to strengthen the intelligence wing, he said after the Sukma attacks in April this year, they are undertaking joint operations with state agencies to ensure that major Naxal attacks are avoided. “We are also strengthening the CRPF intelligence wing. We also need to pump technology and have more local information,” he said. However, intelligence is much better in both technical and surveillance front, he added. 
 
 CRPF is deployed in the difficult areas such as Jammu and Kashmir, north-east frontiers and in left-wing extremist areas. Also, they are deployed internally to maintain the law and order. “We are improving their training every year, which is vital for their performance. We invest a lot in training, professional excellence, in their way of approach to things and dedication. CRPF has done remarkably well in J& K as more than 50 militants have been eliminated. Stone pelting incidents are also coming down. We have been successful even in Naxal dominated areas,” he said. 
 
 “Nevertheless, it was unfortunate when one of the trainees committed suicide. Though it was for personal reasons, we have undertaken an enquiry and are involving professional agencies to help our recruits. The training also includes yoga, and other activities that improve coordination,” he further said. There were seven women trainees out of the 100 recruits who passed out on Wednesday. The jawans and CRPF officials put up a show of courage and valour through martial arts, combat drills and performances that enthralled the audiences. 
 
 CRPF, world’s largest para-military force has 241 battalions including ten of rapid action force, 10 COBRA battalions and six Mahila battalions. The recruits undertake rigorous training to face the present day challenges. Five of the trainees were awarded for best performance in the training.
 
 
