CHANDIGARH: Hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) seeking to restrain Punjab minister Navjot Singh   from acting in a TV comedy show, the Punjab and Haryana high court on Friday sought the state advocate general’s opinion on the propriety of a cabinet minister appearing in the television programme.

 The court asked AG  , “What are your views on the propriety of a cabinet minister appearing in a comedy show?” The AG, however, remained non-committal, saying, “I am here to defend the state government on legal issues only.”
 
 When the petition filed by advocate H C Arora came up for hearing before the division bench headed by Justice S S Saron, the petitioner had urged the bench to elicit the views of Atul Nanda, who was watching the proceedings.
 
 After the AG’s reply, the petition was adjourned to May 11 to enable the petitioner, the   and the Punjab government to address the HC bench on the moral as well as the legal aspects of the issues raised in the PIL.
 
 The petitioner had stated in the PIL that the propriety of the constitutional post of a cabinet minister requires that he should not participate in a comedy show on TV. 
 
 He cited the full bench judgment of Andhra Pradesh high court, wherein it was observed that a chief minister should not act in a film and had further cautioned that such acting in films by a cabinet minister may also amount to abuse of his office. “Acting in a comedy show by Sidhu appears to be more serious than acting in a film,” the petitioner argued.
 
 Such conduct on the part of Sidhu, who is Punjab’s minister for local bodies as well as cultural affairs, would also give rise to “conflict of interest”, as he is bound to enforce the provisions of Rule-15 of the Punjab Government Employees Conduct Rules, 1966, according to which the government employee cannot engage himself in private trade or business. “How can Sidhu expect the government employees to avoid doing private business, when he himself is doing such private business?” argued the petitioner
 
