VADODARA/ ANAND: When   (PM) Narendra Modi had   on November 8,   was flooded with jokes that the PM had forced even   their savings which they usually hid at   in their homes. 

 A study undertaken by researchers of the prestigious Institute of Rural Management, Anand (IRMA) has, however, discovered that women are more likely to own bank accounts and engage with banking institutions compared to men! According to the study, nearly 72% women prefer depositing money in formal banks compared to men who would rather keep the cash at home.
 
 IRMA’s faculty had conducted the study titled ‘Scaling digital financial services: research and innovation’ aimed at gauging savings and banking habits of the bottom of the pyramid (BoP) populace both in rural and urban set-ups’. The study which was conducted along with the Grameen Foundation India and funded by J P Morgan Chase India had covered 38 districts of rural Uttar Pradesh with a sample size of 18,000 households covering 72,000 individuals. 
 
 “After listing 18,000 households, we had taken 3,500 households as final sample of which 3,000 had a bank account. Our study showed that women are more inclined towards savings. They try to use the savings for different purposes including those to start small business, educate their children, take care of future contingencies,” said professor Rakesh Arrawatia, who coordinated the project with IRMA’s RBI chair professor H K Nagarajan, professor Vivek Pandey and professor Shyam Singh as members. 
 
 “If women are given same level of education and opportunities as compared to males, they are more likely to use their money through banking institutions,” said Pandey. 
 
 The study which included cellphone ownership trends among both rural and urban account holders discovered that only 36% rural women owned basic phones compared to 77% of their urban counterparts. Also, individuals possessing an account under the Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana (PMJDY) along with a regular savings account were more likely to leave the latter dormant. 
 
 “The probability of such a scenario is as high as 80.63% as there are incentives linked to PMJDY accounts including access to government schemes,” said Arrawatia. The study will also suggest ways through which people can be motivated to voluntarily start using PMJDY accounts. 
 
