AURANGABAD: A considerable number of local ATMs are yet to function in the city even after fresh remittance from the   (RBI). 

 Jagdish Bhavthankar, vice-president of the State Bank of Hyderabad Employees Federation, said that banks were leaving no stone unturned to circulate available cash to customers through ATMs and counters.
 
 “Barring a few nationalised banks, other financial institutions are yet to recalibrate their ATMs. While some ATMs have already been recalibrated, the exercise to modify others could take a while longer,” he said.
 
 Ravi Dhamangaokar, deputy general secretary of the State Bank of Hyderabad Staff Association, said that though the cash scenario was improving fast, a few more days were needed to restore normalcy.
 
 Pravin Rathod, a tourist operator, said he had observed improvement. “I could withdraw money from ATMs twice this week without much hardship. But, not all ATMs in my area are still operational,” he said.
 
 A city-based banker said that the recalibration of all non-functional ATMs could take more days. Being first week of month, different banks continued to witness heavy rush.
 
 Pensioer, Leela Kulkarni, said that she had dropped all her plans to visit the bank to withdraw monthly pension fearing the crowd. “Last month, I had a terrible experience taking money from my pension as I was forced to wait for long despite being a diabetic patient. This month, I plan on visiting the bank during the second half and only if the need arises,” she said.
 
 In the meantime, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has issued advice to banks assuring them of an increase in the supply of fresh notes in rural areas, which is likely to improve the cash supply in rural areas of Marathwada.
 
 “The apex bank was partial when it came to remittance to rural areas as metropolitan areas and urban areas were preferred first for cash disbursal post  . Now, the RBI is asking that the focus be shifted on villages. Let us hope that the cash crunch eases out in rural areas too,” a bank official said.
 
 The RBI has also asked banks to ensure daily reporting of note supply in remote areas through  .
 
 
