CHENNAI: When   - who lifted his fourth   title here on Saturday - was all of 15, the Chennai-born lad started playing in the senior circuit instead of following the conventional route by playing the juniors. It wasn’t a decision that came out of any arrogance of thinking that he was too good for the junior level. On the contrary, he felt that he was “average” as a junior and felt it would be a waste of time.

 “I started playing the seniors at the age of 15. Internationally, I didn’t play at youth level. I wasn’t good enough to do well in the junior Grand Slams. I was very average in the junior circuit. So, it didn’t make sense for me to pay money and travel and not earn any prize money,” the 20-year-old Mukund told TOI.
 
 While the likes of Yuki Bhambri first made a mark playing the junior Slams and winning the Australian Open juniors in 2009, Mukund has no regrets with the way things have panned out. “I think it was a good decision to skip the juniors. Junior circuit is a waste of money according to me. You stop at 18 anyway. What’s the point? For three years, why would you spend so much money? You can work towards something which can help you in the longer run. Playing the seniors from such a young age helped me. You play tough matches and it made me improve for sure,” added Mukund, who grew up primarily in Hyderabad and had the opportunity to interact with the likes of   during his early days.
 
 As it stands, Mukund has caught up with contemporaries like Sumit Nagal, whom the former admits he was much inferior to a few years ago. According to the youngster, the time he has spent with fellow player   in honing his skills has played a big part in his development.
 
 “Prajnesh is someone who has had a lot of injuries and never been able to have a proper career even though he was very talented. But he kept on fighting and is now ranked No. 227 in the world. He is in the   scheme of things and playing Grand Slams qualifiers. He has been motivating me since the time I started training with him in 2014,” he explained.
 
 Interestingly, a couple of years ago, Mukund also spent a few months training in Barcelona. While he admits that he got greater exposure during his time in Spain, he feels it’s what he has learnt here in India that has shaped him both on and off the tennis courts. “I trained in Barcelona from July 2015 to March 2016. There was brilliant weather and good courts to play on. I got to play more matches. I also had the opportunity of playing against a lot of good players. But I was there for just 6 months. Ultimately, I think it’s the work that I have put in here that makes the difference,” he added.
 
