KOCHI: With the standoff between producers and cinema owners over revenue sharing leading to a loss of Rs 35-40 crore to the industry, the producers and distributors, in association with a section of cinema owners, are  .
 
 With the standoff between producers and cinema owners over revenue sharing leading to a loss of Rs 35-40 crore to the industry, the producers and distributors, in association with a section of cinema owners, are planning to float a new organization.
  
 The producers, distributors and a breakaway faction of the   (KFEF) will hold a meeting in Kochi on Saturday to decide on the structure of the new organization. 
 
 Sources said new films will hit some if not all the screens from January 19. 
 
 According to producers’ association leaders, the meeting will be attended by at least 19 members of the Kerala Film Exhibitors’ Federation (KFEF) which has decided to close down the cinemas across the state demanding equal share of the box-office collection. “The 19 owners have a total of at least 50 screens. Moreover, producers and distributors who run theatres will also join the new organization,” G Suresh Kumar, president,   said.
 
  “We are yet to decide on whether it should be an organization of cinema owners or a collective of all the stakeholders. We will be taking such decisions at Saturday’s meeting,” he said. Actor Dileep, who owns several cinemas, has taken the initiative to rally more theatre owners behind the proposed organization. 
 
 However, the KFEF was seemingly undaunted by the new development. KFEF president Liberty Basheer said the federation, which has been functioning for more than three decades, has the capacity to survive a split. “The general body meeting of the organization will be held on Sunday for taking further decisions. Culture minister   will also convene a meeting on January 25,” Basheer said. 
 
 At the same time, minister A K Balan said the government hasn’t planned any reconciliation talks as of now. “The meeting on January 25 is for discussing formation of a film regulatory authority as recommended by the Adoor Gopalakrishnan committee which was set up to give suggestions to reform the film industry. We had convened a meeting of producers, distributors and theatre owners. But, it couldn’t make any headway due to the stubborn attitude of the KFEF leaders,” Balan said. The KFEF has been demanding equal share of the box-office collection. As of now, while theatre owners get 40% of the revenues, 60% goes to the producers. 
 
 According to some producers, shooting of around 15 films has been stopped due to the row.
 
