PUNE: After the BJP and the Shiv Sena, the coalition talks between the Congress and Nationalist Congress Party ( ) has too fizzled out as both the parties failed to reach any consensus on sharing of seats.

 According to sources, Congress leaders were demanding for 67 seats in the upcoming civic elections while the NCP was ready to give them only 60. “Both the parties failed to break the deadlock, due to which the Congress leaders telephoned their counterparts in the NCP to call of the talks,” they said.
 
 “The Congress leaders called us to tell that they don’t want to go ahead with the talks. They were demanding the seats from where we have sitting corporators and this was technically not possible for us,” Vandana Chavan, city unit chief of the NCP, said.
 
 The leaders of the NCP claimed that the Congress party were demanding impractical demands since a section of its leaders “did not want the seat-sharing formula to work out between both the parties”.
 
 “They were making the demands that could not be met. They (Congress leaders) felt that joining hands will benefit the NCP more than their own party. They were also of the opinion that after the polls, Congress may not get key posts such as mayor or standing committee chairman if both the parties entered into the alliance,” a senior NCP leader said, adding that the coalition talks “became a victim of personal interests of some Congress leaders in the city and state”.
 
 The Congress leaders on the other hand blamed the NCP leaders for the coalition efforts falling through. “Lesser number of seats was not just the only reason for calling off the talks. We were being offered the seats that were of no use to us since our candidates would not have been able to win on those seats,” a senior Congress leader said while confirming that the   have been called off.
 
 Ramesh Bagve, city unit chief of the Congress who spearheaded the talks, was not available for comment despite repeated calls.
 
 Those who supported the alliance were of the opinion that it would have helped in gaining more seats for both the parties. “Contesting elections this year has become a more laborious task as the panel size has increased drastically. The candidates will have to reach out to voters in four wards compared to two wards during the last elections. If two strong parties had come together, campaigning and leg work for the elections would have become easier,” a section of leaders from both the parties said.
 
 As many as 10 municipal corporations, including Pune, will go to polls on February 21 and the results will be announced on February 23. Over 26.43 lakh voters have been registered for this election who will elect 162 corporators.
 
 
