PUNE: Life was never easy for  , 26, ever since she was diagnosed with  . 

 From struggling to get admission in a school to finding special educators, she has worked hard. She tasted success when she scored 61% to top the BA Sanskrit class in SNDT College, Mumbai and is pursuing her Masters in Sanskrit now.
 
 She harbours a wish to teach students who have learning or other disabilities and wants to popularize Sanskrit among the masses. She is also fond of reading and dancing and humorist Pu La Deshpande’s books are her favourite.
 
 “I want to take up special B Ed (for students with disabilities) and popularize Sanskrit, which is a beautiful language,” Rucha added.
 
 She owes much to her mother who quit her job and braved rejections and disappointments to ensure her daughter got what she wanted. “We knew from her birth that she had a problem. When we realised it was Down Syndrome, I was taken aback. Accepting it was the biggest challenge of my life,” Rucha’s mother Neeta said.
 
 Rucha started having problems after standard I. “She was unable to get up early and the teachers had a tendency to make slow learners sit on the last benches. It aggravated her dislike for school,” Neeta said.
 
 She was sent to a special school for two years after which she was back in a regular school. Meanwhile, Neeta Shere, who worked as a health educator, quit her job to concentrate on Rucha’s education. “This school was far away but the principal Vidya Sawant was a sensitive lady. She told me that she will talk to Rucha first and then decide on her admission. She told us to admit Rucha in standard II while she should have been in standard IV.”
 
 The school was a blessing. “The teachers made her sit on the first bench, included her in all the activities, made her participate in cultural shows and got Rucha to fall in love with the idea of a school,” Neeta said.
 
 Mathematics was always tough for Rucha. “She was probably the first student with learning disability for the state board exams. There were no special concessions for such children. Her special educator Reema Vahi helped her with maths and English, her principal   along with social activist   communicated with the board to allow her an extra 30 minutes for the exams and permission to make standard VII mathematics as her evaluation level for the board exam. It was permitted at the last moment and she sailed through the exam,” Neeta said.
 
 Neeta went to college with her daughter and did her MA just for the commute and the company. “She loves Sanskrit. She is also a dancer and has cleared four levels of Bharatnatyam and is an avid reader. She can be lost in reading for hours at end, ” she added.
 
 Neeta’s message to parents with children born with difficulties is simple. “Accept that your child is different, that she has a problem and then work to solve it. Find teachers and support systems who will help you and trust them. Believe in your child, love them and leave no stones unturned to help them when they need it,” she added.
 
 
