KOLKATA: The detective department has recovered over Rs 4.15 crore in old currency from the office of a businessman in  . Police claimed the businessman is being questioned about the source of the notes. “The seizure was carried out on Monday evening around 6 pm from the possession of one Ashok Surana at his residence in Lee Road in Bhowanipore. The entire amount is in the denomination of demonetized currencies of old Rs 500 currencies (50, 160 pieces) and Rs 1000 currencies (16, 427 pieces),” said additional CP (Crime) Vishal Garg.

 “On enquiry, he informed our team that the money has been acquired from his business though he could not produce any supportive document in this regard. Further enquiry is being conducted,” claimed the officer. Sources said that both Enforcement Directorate and IT officials will be informed of the development.
 
 Police officers investigating the case said they fear that certain financial agencies were helping in stacking up this huge stockpile. “This is by far the highest seizure in Kolkata by the police so far in one go since demonetization. We are looking in to links that will establish the bigger players of this racket,” said an officer.
 
 The development comes on the same day that the Kolkata police questioned a key aide of journalist Mathew Samuels at the Muchipara police station. This is regarding another case of extortion involving politicians from neighbouring Bihar.
 
 Radhakrishnan, the driver of Mathew was asked to be present for questioning after a raid earlier at the Samuel office in Green Park found his presence there. “We believe that he is aware of Mathew’s plans. Based on his inteerogation, we might ask Mathew to join the investigations,” said a police source.
 
 A joint team of Kolkata Police and Delhi Police had earlier raided the Delhi office and residence of Mathew Samuel and seized eight laptops. This followed a complaint of extortion call to an ex-Bihar MP, who was allegedly asked to pay Rs 5 crore if he did not want a sting operation footage of him accepting bribe be made public. The call was allegedly made from a hotel in Muchipara. Police raided the room and seized a laptop and mobile and claimed the occupant was not in the room. The laptop allegedly had a photo (a mirror image) that resembled Narada News CEO Mathew Samuel.
 
