KOLKATA: For those glued to the T20 extravaganza, held over seven weeks, a feeling of anxiety at the exit of the home team is a natural consequence of making a habit of tuning in to the match every day .

 “I felt difficulty in sleeping on Friday night when the feeling that   won't be playing the final sank in. When I woke up in the morning, I did not want to come out of the bed,“ said  , a student of Class IX. Such behaviour or restlessness and irritation among fans of KKR in the past seven weeks have been described by the doctors as withdrawal symptom.
 
 “Someone who had been following KKR closely and got into the habit of watching every game and expecting them to lift the trophy could feel sapped of energy and generally depressed,“ said city-based psychiatrist Abhijeet Das.
 
 According to psychiatrists, the term “withdrawal symptom“ denotes the mental agony of someone who abruptly stops taking a drug that has the capability of producing physical dependence.   enthusiasts though feel a much milder variant of the symptom. And here it is why.
 
 "Fans identify with the game and start living that experi ence as the tournament progresses," said  , a psychiatrist. "When we engage in activities that are exciting, dopamine is increased in the brain, making us feel a sense of pleasure."
 
 But that does not last forever. That extra dopamine is released when people really get into a game. The more intense the experience -by that standards the KKR-MI game on Friday night was not that intense -the more dopamine the brain releases and the “higher“ we get. Eventually the dopamine level reverts to normal and we feel deprived.
 
 Good news is that it is not serious and you needn't seek professional. For some temporary relief, just realign your loyalties to MI or Pune. This will give you something to look forward to. Some KKR fans have already been trying this remedy. “I was devastated when KKR lost on Friday night and made an exit from the tournament. It seemed that there was nothing to look forward to. I decided to support Pune in the final on Sunday and I feel much better,“ said  , a second year student.
 
 For a more permanent cure, just wait for the next sporting event to commence. The Champion Trophy Starts on June 1.
 
