CHENNAI: Six months after she took over as the vice-chancellor of the state medical university, Dr S   gave away the 11-month-old Toyota Altis and purchased a new premium SUV for official use -a Toyata Fortuner.

 The SUV that cost the university Rs 26.29 lakh has been approved by the governing co uncil on June 30, 2016, nearly four weeks after it was purchased, according to an RTI reply issued by the public relations officer M P Anbuchozhan. While the directorate of vigilance and anti-corruption has already taken the files from the university for investigation, officials from the finance department say the vehicle cost overshot the government ceiling by nearly `14 lakh, making Dr Geethalakhmi's car costlier than the ones allotted to ministers, judges, VIPs, chief secretary and officers of equivalent rank. The home department issues a government order that fixes ceiling for purchase of vehicles used for government departments as per the recommendation of the technocrat committee.
 
 The recent order issued on March 15 fixes the maximum amount as Rs 16 lakh (ex-showroom price inclusive of registration and insurance) for dignitaries and officers. “The order is applicable for VCs of all government universities. In this case, there seems to be a problem because the amount was not approved by the finance committee. We will be forwarding this to our audit team and the additional money will be recovered from the officer concerned,“ said finance secretary K Shanmugam. University registrar   said GOs of home department are not applicable to the university, as it is a statutory body that doesn't depend on the government for its finances. “For us the governing council is supreme. We got only Rs 20 lakh approval from the finance committee for Toyota Innova Crysta, but by the time we could make the purchase the cost of the vehicle we were looking for went up. So we purchased a better car for Rs 26 lakh. This was later ratified by the GC,“ he said.
 
 Officials in the state health department say the university had ignored notes by the members of the finance committee and governing council to have the purchase ratified by the government, but university administrators maintain that they have followed the statutes.
 
 However, none of the officials either in the governing council or the finance committee questioned the new car for the VC. Former vice-chancellor Dr   had purchased a Toyota Altis on July 2015. “The car was purchase in the name of the VC, but she never uses it. She continues to use the Altis. The new was vehicle is meant only for VIP movements,“ said Dr Balasubramanian. In the past one year the car has clocked around 6,500km.
 
