NEW DELHI: The   is nowhere near completion even though construction work was sanctioned in November 2014. Permissions from different agencies haven’t come, resulting in only 11% of the work being complete so far.

 The Rs 364-crore project aims at providing smooth access to the airport and NH-8. It has two parts: a 2.7km single-carriageway flyover at   Ram Marg and a 1.2km single-carriageway underpass connecting   with San Martin Road and Ring Road.
 
 PWD officials say that ever since the work was sanctioned, they have been busy getting permissions to cut trees, shift utilities and also   to carry out work on Rao Tula Ram Marg. For the underpass, traffic police have permitted work on Benito Juarez Marg and San Martin Road, while PWD has given conditional permission to work on Ring Road due to high vehicular load.
 
 PWD has almost completed the work of piling and construction of piers between Nelson Mandela Road intersection and RTR junction. It now has to start piling and pier construction between RTR junction and Army Research and Referral Hospital, where the 2.7km flyover will touch down. PWD officials claim they had had sought permission from police in April last year, but even now they don’t have it. “For the past one-and-a-half months, we have been pursuing the matter with traffic police to give us the permission at the earliest. But we are yet to get it,” said a PWD official.
 
 Traffic police is reluctant to give permission, as this will adversely affect the traffic movement on Outer Ring Road. A traffic police officer said, “We will conduct a survey on the stretch and create diversion plans accordingly. The permissions will be granted as soon as the diversion plan in is finalised. There are technical aspects, including a study on the volume of vehicles passing through the area, on which an action report is being prepared.”
 
 PWD officials also say that they have recently applied for permission to close down the entire RTR Road in phases for six months to install beams and girders.
 
 “Though that work will take time to start, we have applied for permission in advance. We are working with the police to plan the traffic diversions and time period for which the stretch will be closed,” said a PWD official. PWD and traffic police are exploring the possibilities of providing alternate routes while work will continue of the RTR flyover.
 
 Shifting of utilities has also added to the delay. There were two BSES lines that were to be shifted by April 10. But so far, just one 11 KV line has been shifted. “Work on shifting a 33KV line is nearing completion,” said the PWD official.
 
 Commuters will continue to have a tough time on the road as work on the underpass at Benito Juarez Marg is yet to pick up pace. While PWD has started the digging work on that road near Springdales School and San Martin Road, the underpass will take time. “We have to take permission for tree cutting and shift services. An 11 KV line is being shifted. Once it is done, work will pick up pace,” said another PWD official.
 
 PWD had also applied for permission to fell 454 trees in February 2015, but got the nod only in August 2016. A senior official said PWD is hoping to finish the work by June 2018 if all the clearances come on time.
 
