KOLKATA: When Trinamool MPs boycotted the Union budget in New Delhi on February 1, little did they know that opposition legislators will replay the same script back home in Kolkata on Friday when state finance minister Amit Mitra tables budget 2017-18. With Congress and Left Front legislators making it clear that they will   presentation, ironically, it is   who will not tread the boycott path and voice their opposition inside, not outside, the state  .

 Even as Assembly’s Wednesday fracas showed signs of intensifying, speaker Biman Banerjee and parliamentary affairs minister Partha Chatterjee went to G D Hospital and Diabetes Institute to visit ailing leader of opposition Abdul Mannan. They spoke to Mannan and wished him an early recovery. “The CM has assured all help. She is keeping a tab on his condition,” Chatterjee said.
 
 “After his admission we found that he had a serious second degree heart block. So we installed a temporary pacemaker. After that he was absolutely fine throughout the night. His condition was also stable in morning,” said Subhasish Ganguly, his attending physician. Mannan was later shifted to the Apollo Gleneagles ICU. “He is conscious, alert, oriented and aware. He is haemodynamically stable on paced rhythm,” a hospital bulletin said. On Friday, he would undergo pacemaker implantation under the supervision of cardiologist Suvro Banerjee.
 
 But by then the Opposition protests had already started inside and outside the Assembly. “We have boycotted the House today and will do so tomorrow. We along with Left will place our own budget,”   said. A youth Congress protest at the Assembly (north gate) threatened to spill over with urban development minister Firhad Hakim getting stuck in it. The Left legislators, too, continued with their protests inside and outside Assembly. They also held a rally at Esplanade later in the day.
 
 BJP, though, remained an exception. Party state president Dilip Ghosh, also an MLA, said, “Unlike them we don’t believe in boycotts. We will attend the House and even though we are weak in numbers (BJP has three MLAs) we will make our protests heard. I think it is left to us now to play the role of a constructive opposition.” 
 
 Chatterjee said, “Why are they insistent on a mock budget outside? The real budget session will be inside?” On the fracas, he said, “We have a written complaint by the House staff who have alleged manhandling. But now is not the time for all these. Let the opposition leader recover and re-join.” 
 
 
