
 
 Every soldier is ready for war. No one really likes conflict but more impor tantly, trained troops hate being LOB -or Left out of Bat tle, if a fight arrives at our doorsteps. In my 40 years as a soldier, I saw action in   1965 66, along the J&K Line of Control in 1987-89 and then, in Punjab from 1989 to 1990.
 In 1971, I was a Lt Colonel commanding the 9 Engineer Regiment. This Regiment was part of the famous 54 Infantry , which carried out an offensive deep in the Shakargargh sector of Pakistan Punjab. The heroics in that theatre form a golden chapter in India's military history .
 
 From December 3 to December 17, we fought on as a well-oiled war machine breaching three minefields and forcing the enemy to react and commit its reserves to a time and place of our choosing. This efficient thrust into Pakistan culminated in the epic battle of Basantar from December 15 to December 17.The enemy were decimated, losing one entire armoured brigade and another infantry brigade. Pakistan was forced to concede defeat and agree to a   from 8pm, on the night of December 17.
 
 Half-a-century later, I remember every single moment of that fight, right until the guns went quiet.
 
 My main job was to ensure there was no loss in momentum while breaching minefields and constructing operational tracks, often under enemy fire. Finally, about 9.30pm on D-Day, after breaking through a border fence, I found myself standing on enemy soil across the   Border. We erected a signboard that read. “Welcome to Pakistan, no passport required“. There was a feeling of elation and relief, but we continued breaching successive minefields and brought out our tanks to finish off enemy counterattacks.
 
 There were moments of tragedy , of course. My command post took a direct hit from an artillery shell; one of our battalions lost nearly 100 men, including a dear friend; and as the CO, I had the honourable but heart-breaking task of lighting the pyres of martyred comrades.They were good men, who were one of the bravest I had ever met.
 
 My Regiment's contribution was rec ognised through a large number of gallantry awards. There was one Mahavir Chakra, three Vir Chakras (including my own), four Sena medals and three mentions in the dispatches. The 9 Engineers had become one of the most celebrated units of the   .
 
 As I conclude, I would like to thank my wife too, for her support. Barely in her 30s, she took care of nearly 120 military families back home in Lucknow.She was also looking after the injured at the Command Hospital. Her letters kept encouraging me to push ahead. “Take care of our Thambis (troops), and God will watch over you,“ she once wrote.
 
 Those notes she sent, are as precious as my war medal.
 
 (The author won a Vir Chakra for exceptional bravery during the 1971 IndoPak war)
 
