KOLKATA: The cash-strapped   government had a windfall ahead of the rollout of the GST regime on July 1. Armed with a Supreme Court verdict that upheld the validity of entry tax, the state mopped up Rs 950 crore of pending   from corporates during a special settlement window in June. 

 According to estimates by commercial tax officials, the total amount of entry tax due to the state is around Rs 2,450 crore. The Rs 950 crore already collected is almost 2.5% of the annual revenue of the state government. If the state manages to mobilise the remaining Rs 1,500 crore as well, then the combined sum could be close to 6% of the state’s annual revenue collection.
 
 Senior commercial tax officials feel the state stands to immediately mobilise another Rs 1,000 crore if it opens another settlement window. “Many traders and industrialists are yet to clear their pending entry tax and are looking for a fresh window,” one official said. 
 
 The special window for settlement of the pending entry tax was kept open between June 6 and June 30, just ahead of the GST rollout. “The response was phenomenal. If the window is reopened, more people would deposit their pending tax. In June, the state took the entire amount collected, but now, 50% of the amount deposited under this head would go to the Centre,” an official pointed out. 
 
 The   Entry of Goods into Local Areas Act, 2012 was passed in the assembly in March 2012, under which 1% tax was levied on specific goods entering the state and the tax was ‘compensatory’ in nature. In the first year of rollout, the collection from the tax was Rs 900 crore. The amount went up to Rs 1,200 crore the next year. However, a petition challenging the constitutional validity of the Act was filed in end-2012 by several companies, including Tata Steel, Hindalco,   Consumer, Whirlpool, Ranbaxy, Marico, Cadbury, Glaxo Smithkline Consumer and  . 
 
 In June 2013, Justice Indira Banerjee of Calcutta high court held the Act unconstitutional as it did not have the assent of the President. She also observed that the levy was not ‘compensatory’ in nature, as the government had not stated the end-use of the revenue generated through the tax. However, later, a division bench of Chief Justice   and Joymalya Bagchi said that the assessment process would continue and there was no need to file for refunds. Finally, the state moved the Supreme Court, which upheld the legal validity of entry tax last November. The order came as a big respite for all states that had imposed entry tax. The total revenue impact of the order was Rs 35,000 crore. 
 
 Kumarjit Das, a city-based tax consultant, said his clients had deposited over Rs 150 crore in the entry-tax kitty last month and is looking for a fresh window. “Lot of my clients are asking whether there would be a window like last month again,” he said. 
 
