NASHIK: The graduate students of Maharashtra University of Health Sciences ( ) will soon have a platter of fellowships and certification courses to choose from for the upcoming academic year.

 The MUHS is planning to introduce these courses to furnish the skills of practicing doctors and to introduce graduates to the latest trends in modern medicine. For the initiative, the MUHS has invited applications from private hospitals and doctors to come up with a proper syllabus in their respective fields. 
 
 Vice-Chancellor Dr Dileep Mhaisekar said the principal motive to start these courses was to provide skilled manpower to the field of medicine in the state. “The medical field is one of the fast-developing ones in the world. We get new technology, inventions, equipment and theories every other day. Fellowships and   are a popular concept abroad. MUHS has decided to start the similar system here for which we will use the experience of well-known practitioners,” Mhaisekar said. 
 
 Latest technology and knowledge will be implemented in the fields of dental, Ayurveda, Unani, homeopathy and more.   said, “It’s not always possible for the practicing doctors to come over to the university and teach the students. But, with the proposed   courses, the students will be able to visit their hospitals or institutes and get an on-job training.” 
 
 The last date to submit proposals is February 20. The colleges affiliated to the MUHS may contact the private hospitals and submit proposals on behalf of them. 
 
 “There is a specific format to frame the syllabus, which is available with all MUHS affiliated colleges. Once the institute submits the format, the academicians will review it and suggest necessary changes. This will help in maintaining the quality of the education,” said Chavan. 
 
 Implementation of the initiative would mean that the medical students get a direct on-the-job training from nationally and internationally acclaimed doctors, while gaining access to modern technology and trends in medical science. 
 
 
