NAGPUR: The 151-member   House will have a new look with 91   being first-timers. And the remaining 60 will either serve a second or fifth consecutive term in the   House.

 Though the first-timers are from all political parties, BJP has the highest number among them — 60 (of 108), followed by Congress 20 (of 29). Interestingly, the 10 BSP corporators are all first-timers.
 
 Since a large number of corporators are first-timers, they need training about administration and NMC’s functioning. And many of these first-timers to whom TOI spoke to reiterated the need for such a training.
 
 “Working in the civic body is a complex job. I have not worked in such a set-up. I will definitely need guidance from the senior party leaders and from those who have worked in the corporation to function efficiently,” said Manisha Dhawade, newly-elected BJP member from Ward 23-B..
 
 “Since most women corporators are housewives they need to be trained for the NMC job,” admitted a seasoned senior woman corporator Abha Pande.
 
 “Training the newly elected members about the functioning of the House is very important. Corporators have to follow a certain code of conduct while working,” said senior BJP corporator and former mayor Pravin Datke. The BJP will organize a training session for the rookies.
 
 “Apart from educating them on how to behave in the house and taking up ward-wise works, we will also give them advice on how to balance family and work-life,” he said.
 
 Sandip Sahare, a four-time Congress corporator, said the mix of new and old corporators will help in better management of the civic body. “The experience of old members and the enthusiasm of the new lot is a good combination. Our party had provided candidature to new people with this purpose,” he said.
 
 According to political observers, many factors have led to a surge in fresh faces in NMC. The four-ward panel system too added to the   of new faces. A majority preferred to vote for a party rather than candidates. It includes the reluctance of old corporators to contest again, switching of parties by political workers, lack of experienced candidates for some parties and the breaking up of alliances, they said.
 
 Additional municipal commissioner Ravindra Kumbhare admitted this time the strength of first time corporators are more. To a query, he said, “If such a demand is raised we will definitely organize a workshop on how the House functions and what are the powers of a corporator.” 
 
 
