KOLKATA: It’s a perfect example of the adage ‘facts are stranger than fiction’. Chhavi Rajawat’s unbelievable story will also make you feel that India is indeed changing for the better. She is the youngest woman   of the country and what’s more, she is also an  . But she quit a corporate life to return to Soda, her native village in  , with a mission to turn it around.

 Rajawat was invited by Ficci Flo for an interactive session on her vision and mission. Rajawat bared her heart to Ficci Flo chairperson,  , as the latter interviewed her for more than an hour on Thursday about her plans for Soda and her work experience in what is considered a male turf. She recalled how she experienced extremes like total surrender and received both love and brickbats from villagers.
 
 Rajawat studied in Mayo College Ajmer, Lady Shriram College, Delhi and bagged an MBA degree from Balaji Institute of Modern Management before starting a corporate career. “But by then I realised that I had a different calling in life. I felt a strong urge to return to my roots and do something to change the way people still live there. It would be some kind of a payback, I thought. I was lucky that my parents did not stop me,” Rajawat said. She tried her best to spread awareness among women for equal rights and was finally able to catch the villagers’ imagination who rallied behind her as she won the elections in 2010 without the backing of any political party. “It was difficult to make women realise that they are equally important as men…they initially thought I was talking in some alien language but finally they came around…” Rajawat said.
 
 As a sarpanch, Rajawat has started a unique kind of activism that is addressed towards supplying clean drinking water, building toilets, helping the girls’ college come back from the brink and getting doctors to visit the primary health centre regularly. “My doors are always open. I stay in the village and people even troop in to my room when I am asleep. It is a unique experience,” Rajawat said, adding how her new job from where she earns a meagre Rs 3500 has left her with no personal space. But, as a daughter of the village, she takes all in her stride. “Today when I see a villager naming her newborn girl Chhavi, I feel happy…” she said.
 
 
