KOLKATA: The CBI on Monday vehemently opposed the bail plea of   MP Sudip Bandyopadhyay at Cuttack high court, claiming that the leader is an influential person and was working in complicity with Rose Valley boss Gautam Kundu. The central investigating agency on Monday also claimed that they needed Bandyopadhyay in custody to investigate the case further. The judge reserved the order on Monday .Present at the court of Justice J P Das, CBI's lawyer K Raghavacharyulu presented several photographs of Kundu and Bandyopadhyay , including some taken at the Rose Valley meetings. “We have opposed his bail plea and handed over documents in support of our claims.We have also pointed out the areas where further investigation is required,“ he said outside the court. The agency , sources said, cited statement-before-magistrate of at least 15 persons in a bid to prove his complicity with the Rose Valley boss.

 Earlier in February , Bandyopadhyay moved the Cuttack high court after his bail plea was rejected at the Khurda court in Bhubaneswar. CBI on Monday stressed that Bandyopadhyay cannot be granted a bail as he is an influential per son who had visitors like chief minister Mamata Banerjee. Bandy opadhyay's lawyers, on the other hand, argued that she had visited him as a colleague and not as a chief minister.
 
 Bandyopadhyay's lawyers   and   argued that Mamata Banerjee and Sudip Bandyopadhyay are colleagues and they built the Trinamool Congress together. Banerjee went to visit Bandyopadhyay with due permission of the special CBI court. “If he was an influential person, the CBI would not have got so many persons giving state ments against him. He is a popular person,“ Bandyopadhyay's lawyer said in the court.
 
 CBI on Monday used Bandyopadhyay's speeches and po inted fingers at how he attended meetings of the Rose Valley group and encouraged the company's agents to carry out the business. The investigators cited examples in which Bandyopadhyay was found to have attended at least two business development meetings of the group within a span of four months. The first meeting was in November 2011 and the next in February 2012 at the Netaji Indoor Stadium. According to sleuths, the programme titled “Late Kajal Kundu Memorial Competition“ apparently looked like an award ceremony , but was actually a meeting to apprise performances of the agents.
 
 In its chargesheet against Bandyopadhyay , CBI gave excerpts of a speech in which he allegedly praised the Rose Valley boss in front of the agents.
 
