NOIDA: Following chief minister  's directions to senior officers of infrastructure and industry development department to push for an international airport at  , Noida RWA federation has become more hopeful on their long pending demand to convert Noida's leasehold land into freehold. For this, they have written to CM Yogi on Friday and sought a meeting time with him on these issues in the presence of MLA Pankaj Singh.

 “We are thrilled on the CM’s announcement to push for an airport at Jewar. This will not only help ease traffic at Delhi airport, but also result in economic boom for the district Gautam Budh Nagar as it’ll generate job opportunities for the youth of the district,” said N P Singh, president   (FONRWA).
 
 The RWA umbrella body is now more hopeful that their demand for freehold property for Noida would see the light of day. “Just like residents had raised a demand for an airport at Jewar, successive UP governments had made poll promise to convert the 99-year-leasehold land of Noida into freehold on residents’ demand. But they failed to fulfil their promise. Now with CM Yogi giving the go-ahead for the Jewar airport, we have become more hopeful of finally getting our leasehold land converted into freehold. This hope is more so, because both central and state government is led by one single party majority government,” Singh told TOI.
 
 For this, RWA federation has written to CM Yogi on Friday, seeking a meeting in the presence of MLA Pankaj Singh to take up the matter. “We will also raise other demands of the residents such as district hospital should be handed over to AIIMs management, strict compliance to Noida being a ‘no power cut zone’ notification, a dedicated police force for the city, quality drinking water and representation of FONRWA in Noida authority board and more,” said Singh who also plans to take up the issue of transfer of permanent junior authority staff in order to check rampant corruption in the city.
 
 Former UP chief minister   was the first to moot an idea of an airport in Greater Noida. This was pushed by Mayawati-led BSP government followed by Mahesh Sharma, Union minister of state for culture and tourism (independent charge) and Gautam Budh Nagar MP who had been favouring the Jewar airport project, and met CM Yogi last month over the matter.
 
