KOLKATA: With more than 14 lakh foreign tourists visiting last year, Bengal is one of the top five foreign destinations in the country. The state government is making elaborate arrangements to develop its tourism infrastructure. As part of this, the state tourism department will be setting up   (TAC) within the state as well as along the national highways passing through Bengal to ensure hassle-free journeys for both domestic and foreign travellers.

 According to a senior official of West Bengal Tourism Development Corporation Limited (WBTDCL), the centres will be built along the highways, where tourists can comfortably rest and eat. “Each TAC will have a cafeteria, a medical store and a shop with essential commodities. They will have a separate ramp for people with disabilities, a feeding room for babies and separate toilets for men and women,” said the official. All zones will also have free WiFi and parking space.
 
 Initially, the state government plans to develop seven such centres — four along the Kolkata-Bakkhali route in South 24-Parganas and three along the  . The department is negotiating with major oil companies to help develop the TACs. “We have been seeking lands adjacent to the petrol pumps located on the highways for the centres. They will be developed under the public-private partnership model. WBTDCL will take up the development work on a priority basis. Each centre will cost around 1.5 crore,” the official added.
 
 According to a ministry of tourism report, the State hosted 6.4 per cent foreign tourists and 4.9 per cent domestic ones. In 2016, of the 2.06 crore foreign tourists who visited India, 14.8 lakh visited Bengal. Among the top five states, Tamil Nadu has drawn 20.1 per cent foreign tourists followed by Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi and West Bengal.
 
 Recently, a short film called ‘Beautiful Bengal’ featuring Shah Rukh Khan was released to promote Bengal tourism. The tourism department has launched a promotional campaign to attract foreign tourists during Durga Puja. Meanwhile, the state government plans to develop eco-tourism in   and Gajoldoba tourism hub in Dooars. A heritage tram ride has been introduced in the city.
 
 
