PUNE: The Reserve   of India ( ) on Thursday allowed city-based  , which was placed under directions in 2014, to set-off loan repayment of its borrowers against deposits held by them in the bank. 

 This simply means that the bank can now use the deposits in the account of its borrowers to pay any loan liability they may have towards the bank, subject to certain conditions.
 
 The RBI had placed Lokseva Sahakari Bank under directions on May 20, 2014. “The bank is allowed to set off   against deposits, if the terms and conditions of the loan agreement with the borrower provide that the amount in his specific deposit account (by whatever name called) may be allowed to be appropriated / adjusted by the bank towards his loan account,” the RBI said in a statement.
 
 Normally, such terms are provided in the contract act or loan documents. 
 
 Lokseva is the second bank in the state to have been granted this permission from the RBI. About 10 days ago, the Reserve Bank had allowed Mumbai-based CKP Cooperative Bank to set-off loans against deposits.
 
 As soon as cooperative banks are placed under directions, it is typical that most borrowers stop paying their instalments for they are not able to access their deposits (due to restrictions).
 
 It is learnt that the Rupee Cooperative Bank, which has loans and interest outstanding of Rs 2,300 crore, has also approached the RBI for a similar dispensation. In fact, the bank has already set-off about Rs 25 crore worth of loans against deposits held by it. The extension validity of this bank, with over 6 lakh depositors, will be decided on February 21. It is also learnt that by setting-off, the bank can recover over Rs 82 crore worth of loans.
 
 “We expect a similar dispensation to be given to us soon,” said a senior Rupee Cooperative Bank official.
 
 The RBI rule mandates that before setting-off, consent of the depositor must be obtained. Further, the deposit must not have any attachment like other instalment payments or should not be under any freeze of a court order.
 
 The apex bank, however, kept the guarantors and surety givers (holding account in the same bank) to borrowers out of the ambit of this rule. 
 
 “Deposits held by a third party including but not limited to guarantor/ sureties are not permitted to be adjusted,” the RBI said in a statement.
 
 
