CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and   high court on Thursday stayed the arrest of the founders of Ryan Group of Institutions in relation to   murder case. The interim relief to Pinto family would continue till October 7, when the   would file its reply on their contentions.

 Justice Surinder Gupta has passed these orders while hearing the owners of Ryan Group of Institutions, Augustine Pinto, his wife and group managing director (MD) Grace Pinto and their son   seeking anticipatory bail in the case.
 
 “Counsel for CBI though does not want to argue the case on merit but he wants to address arguments on interim relief being sought by petitioners. As CBI counsel has sought time to file reply on merits and to address arguments, it will be appropriate that petitions be heard on merit and decided instead of hearing the part arguments, which will certainly touch merits of the case. In the meanwhile, arrest of petitioners shall remain stayed till next date,” Justice Gupta observed while adjourning the case for October 7.
 
 HC, however, made it clear that if required, they will be called and allowed to join investigation.
 
 Apprehending arrest in the case, Pinto family had requested the HC to issue directions that they should be released on bail in case of arrest in relation to the FIR registered on September 8, at Bhondsi police station in Gurgaon. The case was subsequently handed over to the CBI for probe.
 
 In their plea for interim relief, Augustine and Grace, residents of Borivali (East) Mumbai, have told the court that they have deep roots in the society and poses no risk, and there can be no apprehension of their absconding.
 
 In a separate plea for interim bail, Ryan has submitted that he has no role whatsoever in the tragic incident, as he is neither connected with   Gurugram nor on its managing committee.
 
 “The only reason that petitioner’s name is being dragged into this case is because the petitioner happens to be the son of the trustees of the St Xavier Education Trust which had started the Ryan International School,” argued Ryan’s lawyer.
 
 They want interim stay on their arrest in relation to the case registered for murder, and under section 75 of the Juvenile Justice Act for willfully neglecting safekeeping of a child in actual custody, and section 12 of the Prevention Of Children from Sexual Offences Act 2012.
 
 Earlier, the Bombay high court had rejected the anticipatory bail applications of the three on September 14.
 
 HC to decide on Francis Thomas’s plea on Oct 6
 
 The Punjab and Haryana high court on Thursday adjourned the hearing of the regular bail applications of Ryan International School’s northern region head,  , and human resources chief Jayesh Thomas for October 6. The court was of the view that it would decide on their plea only after hearing CBI. Both were arrested by the Gurgaon police after the incident and were recently taken into CBI’s custody.
 
