NAGPUR: Special Potection Group (SPG) officials met city police chief   last week and collected preliminary information for the preparation of security plan for the visit of Prime Minister Narendra   on April 14. SPG officials will join Venkatesh later this week to fine tune the final blueprint.

 The visit of JNU student leader  , also on April 14, has brought an additional concern for city police. Central and state intelligence agencies are learnt to be working round the clock to gather inputs on the activities of various suspected groups especially the ones who are keen to corner the governments on various issues.
 
 City police have started planning the bandobast at a micro-level comprising several components such as security layers around Modi and other VIPs, venue protection, vehicular movements, strategic deployment of force, surveillance, anti-sabotage checks, use of security gadgets, protected vehicles and medical and other emergency support. District guardian minister Chandrashekar Bawankule too has been repeatedly meeting the city police top brass to exchange inputs and remain updated regarding the security preparations.
 
 Sources claimed that Modi is expected to inaugurate the   in the city, personally demonstrating the use of the facility to transfer funds. Modi is also expected to visit the thermal power station at Koradi after his Deekshabhoomi visit.
 
  Apart from Venkatesh, joint CP Shivaji Bodkhe and DCP special branch Ravindrasing Pardeshi are visiting the places where the VIPs are expected to move. 
 
 Venkatesh said various issues, including traffic plans, are being worked out. “We would have additional manpower of bomb detection and disposal units from other places,” he said.
 
 Extensive CCTV surveillance, drone cameras and metal detectors would be utilized in large numbers. Special vehicles, fitted with cameras and such sophisticated facilities, would be also present at the venues to keep a watch on the masses.
 
 Venkatesh has been also repeatedly meeting the traffic DCP Smartana Patil to discuss the plan. The top cop is also receiving inputs from the traffic PIs individually and discussing the plans.
 
