THANE: Three bikes and one cycle was set   at Shree Datta Vijay society in   on Thursday. The damage was around Rs 70,000. Two residents from the building itself are said to be behind the incident. The accused wanted to take revenge with one of the resident’s so they took this step. 

  One of the accused, Mandar Satam, had an argument with another resident Subramanium Mudaliyer last week over a petty issue. The fight was triggered over a tiff the duo had with regard to the usage of the society’s Gymkhana. 
 
 According to senior inspector from Kopri police station, S D Korde, “Last week at 8 pm, Satam and his friend Chetan Shinde went to Mudaliyer’s house. They wanted the keys of the society’s gym. Mudaliyer turned them down and had asked them to come the next day. This upset the accused.”
 
 The duo then decided to teach him a lesson and decided to damage his two motorbikes that were parked in the parking lot. The fire, however, spread and charred another two-wheeler and a cycle that were parked nearby . 
 
 “The CCTV footage obtained from the society premises shows that that accused had intentionally set two bikes on fire. We asked Mudaliyer who confirmed that those were the same men who asked for the gym keys, said Korde.
 
 The accused have been detained for questioning. 
 
 Apart from Mudaliyer, the other vehicles that were charred in the blaze belonged to Yogesh Karle and Tirumal Vaniyer. Meanwhile, a similar incident took place in mid-July at Nitin company junction when a motorbike parked on the service road was set ablaze by two residents of Siddheshwar Nagar. The accused had also taken this step to take revenge over a petty issue. They had set ablaze seven vehicles that were parked in the building.
 
  Further investigations are on in the case. 
 
 Last week at 8 pm, Satam and his friend Chetan Shinde went to Mudaliyer’s house. They wanted the keys of the society’s gym. Mudaliyer turned them down and had asked them to come the next day. This upset the accused
 
