CHANDIGARH: The   administration is all set to reduce  , which at present are considerably higher than those prevailing in   and Mohali.

 Based on a survey conducted on direction of UT adviser Parimal Rai to study rates in Panchkula and Mohali, the authorities are contemplating slashing the rates up to 10 per cent in residential and up to 20 per cent in commercial area. Last year, the administration had reduced the rates up to 20 per cent in both residential and commercial categories.
 
 The collector rate is the lowest at which a property is registered. It is fixed by the administration and revised every year. At present, collector rates in many areas of the city are disproportionately higher than the actual property rates.
 
 In Industrial Area, the market price of a plot is around Rs 50,000 per square yard, while the collector rate is Rs 65,000 square yard. Collector rate of converted industrial plots is Rs 1.50 per square yard, while the market value of the property is around Rs 90,000 per square yard. Similarly, the collector rate of showrooms measuring 300 square yard in Sectors 26 is Rs 45 crore, while the property prices is around Rs 20 crore. In residential category, current price of a one-kanal house in prime locations is around Rs 5 crore and the collector rate is around Rs 4 crore.
 
 Earlier this month, industrialist association and property consultants took up the issue of reduction of collector rates with UT adviser.
 
 Chander Verma, chairman,  , who had submitted a representation to the adviser, said considering the current scenario, the administration should reduce the collector rates. “The   government has reduced the collector rates twice in last one year. Rates in Panchkula were also reduced, which has further widened the difference in rates prevailing in Panchkula, Mohali and Chandigarh,” said Verma.
 
 Kamaljit Singh Panchi, adviser, Chandigarh Property Consultants Association, said that demonetisation has severely impacted the already sluggish property market. “The administration needs to reduce collector rates to inject a new lease of life into real estate market in Chandigarh,” said Panchi.
 
 In addition, buyers have also to pay stamp duty of 3 per cent on collector rates and are also charged Rs 1,500 per square yard as construction charges.
 
 
 
 By Vinod Kumar
 
