BHUBANESWAR: Chief minister   may have increased his social media interaction in recent times, but a wrong tweet on his twitter handle @Naveen_Odisha has left him red-faced. 

 To congratulate a youth from   for his work in the blockbuster film Bahubali 2, he wrote, "I am happy to learn about the involvement of a techie Bolangir #Odisha@sanjatm in production of Bahubali2. Wish him more success". 
 
  Mishra, who is from Balangir, received many accolades for his small contribution in popularizing the movie, promptly responded and contested the CM's tweets saying, "Just to clarify that we were part of the social media promotion of   entertainment for BB2. Nowhere, we were part of the production". 
 
 The clarification may have gone unnoticed by the CM's office, but it is amply clear that the CM's tweets carried wrong message leading to confusion in the Bahubali production team and among Sanjat's friends. 
 
 A friend of Sanjat from Balangir, Abhinash Mohanty, said the CM office didn't verify facts and wrongly attributed the success. The CM office could have verified the facts and written that Sanjat was part of the promotional activity that was carried out in the UK. 
 
 Although Sanjat has acknowledged the CM's tweets on his twitter handle thanking and conveying that he was honoured for the wish, he said his clarification was only meant to maintain professional ethics as he was not part of the production venture. "I thank the CM for his warm words for me. All that I wanted to convey was I was never part of the production and this should be known to all," he told TOI. His friends said Sanjat could have landed in trouble had he not written the clarification. "Bahubali 2 is a big venture. Sanjat should not be credited for what he has not done. The production team could have filed a suit against him," said a friend of Sanjat. 
 
 Sanjat, who is based in Bengaluru, is the owner of startup Ux interface, which was entrusted with the promotion of Bahubali2 in the social media platform in the UK. 
 
