NEW DELHI: A lucky tip-off and the letter 'A' tattooed on the right hand of an 18-year-old girl has helped police crack a sensational murder that took place in 2008.

 The story begins in 2006, when 16-year-old Aarti fell for a neighbourhood boy in Sultanpuri, west Delhi. They dated for two years and when she turned 18, the two moved in together.
 
 Initially, life was good. The boy, Brijender alias Rinku, showered Aarti with gifts and brought her flowers. Her parents left them alone seeing their daughter happy. But soon things started changing and by September, 2008, the two were regularly fighting over petty things.
 
 Around the end of the month, Aarti went missing.
 
 A few days later, her worried parents received a letter in which Aarti -the letter bore her signature -claimed she had fallen in love with another man and eloped with him. This was a shock for her old parents but they gradually learnt to live with it. Rinku also “moved on“.
 
 He sold his house, shifted a short distance away to Aman Vihar and even married a girl from Patel Nagar in October 2009. In his first partner's memory , he started calling his wife Aarti. They have three sons, aged seven, five and two.
 
 “On April 11 this year, the crime branch team led by ACP Jasbir Singh got a tipoff from a source about the involvement of Rahul in a murder eight years ago. Rahul was nabbed and he led us to Rinku, the main conspirator of the crime,“ said district commissioner of police (crime) Bhisham Singh. Rinku's interrogation revealed sensational details. Fed up of their growing fights, Rinku said he decided to eliminate Aarti. On the night of September 23, he took her signatures on a blank paper and then throttled her to death, Rinku told the cops.
 
 After this, he hired an auto and made the body sit on the rear seat with him. He told the driver that his wife was possessed by evil powers and he was taking her to Najafgarh for exorcism, police said.
 
 “Thereafter, he took the body to Najafgarh and called body to Najafgarh and called his friend Rahul for help. Rahul came in uncle's car to dispose of the body. They drove to Surakhpur Road and dumped it in bushes after crushing her face with stones to hide her identity ,“ DCP Singh added.
 
 The body was recovered a day later but it could never be identified. Police cremated the body later as per procedure.
 
 After a few days had passed, Rinku sent the fake letter to Aarti's father through a tea vendor. The signature on the letter was real as it was written on the blank paper which Aarti had signed before her death, Rinku has confessed.
 
 The letter had said that she had eloped with an advocate's son and was living happily . It requested the parents not to search for or try to contact her as she was leaving Delhi.
 
 Aarti's father had taken ill due to shock and passed away a few years later. Rinku has also told cops that he started calling his second wife Aarti so that no one asked or searched for her in his colony as many people knew about their affair.
 
 Aarti's mother and two brothers still live in Sultanpuri. On the duo's disclosure, cops fished out the inquest report of the unidentified dead body found eight years ago from the area described by the killers.
 
 The family confirmed that Aarti had the letter `A' tattooed on her right hand, which matched the police's description of the body.
 
