Panaji: Transport minister Ramkrishna ‘Sudin’ Dhavalikar on Wednesday said that CCTV cameras will be installed across the state under public private partnership (PPP) for traffic management. Dhavalikar also said that his government will examine giving taxi owners a relaxation on installation of speed governors.

 Replying to transport demands, Dhavalikar said that CCTV cameras will be connected to RTO offices, police stations and the health department. He said that installation of CCTV cameras will help the authorities for enforcement in villages.
 
 He also said that the installation of CCTV cameras will help in reducing crime and traffic violations will be controlled. Replying to the demands of MLAs that speed governors should not be made compulsory for taxis, Dhavalikar said that the Supreme Court had directed the Union government to install speed governors in taxis.
 
 Dhavalikar said that the chief minister will take a decision to install speed governors in taxis. “We are studying how much we can get relaxation on implementation of speed governors,” he added. He also said that under the Union government, a bus port scheme is likely to come into force from August. The state government will take up construction of bus stands at Mapusa, Ponda and Margao under the first phase and in the second phase, Curchorem and Bicholim. Smaller bus stands will be constructed in other parts of Goa using state funds.
 
 Replying to PWD demands, Dhavalikar said that under the Bharat Mala scheme, 250km of roads have been identified and Rs 2,500 crore will come to the state for the development of existing and new national highways. Referring to ruling as well as opposition MLAs opposing taking up of roads under the Bharat Mala scheme in the coastal belt, Dhavalikar said, “Don’t oppose for the sake of opposition. The government is working with a vision of looking 25 years ahead”.
 
 Intervening in the discussion, chief minister Manohar Parrikar assured the members of the house that without finding a solution, the government will not go ahead with Bharat Mala scheme.
 
 
