NEW DELHI: Setting the tone for municipal polls in April, the state election commission (SEC) on Wednesday   the reservation of seats for women and schedule caste candidates across the 272 wards. This has paved the way for pre-election work to be carried out by SEC in consultation with the three corporations.

 The scheduled caste seats were reserved based on the SC population in a ward. “For instance, under North Delhi Municipal Corporation 19.38% of the total population comprises scheduled castes. So, out of 104 seats 20 have been reserved for SC candidates. From the 20  , 10 are for women SC candidates. The remaining 84 seats have been divided equally between women and general candidates,” said a senior SEC official.
 
 Out of the total 272 seats across the three corporations, 46 have been reserved for SC candidates — 20 under north corporation, 15 under south corporation and 11 under east corporation. Of the remaining 226 seats, 114 have been reserved for women candidates.
 
 While odd numbered seats are reserved for women candidates, the even ones are for general candidates. “50% of the total SC seats are reserved for women. The same applied to seats in the general category,” said the senior official.
 
 The municipal polls are significant this time as a major third party, AAP, will be contesting for the first time. While the ruling BJP will be fighting to retain its turf, Congress is making a bid to regain lost ground.
 
 After the delimitation work was officially notified in January, it changed the contours and population of municipal wards. Though the total number of municipal wards remains at 272, there is a major change from the current configuration of four wards per assembly constituency to three in many, and seven in one. The average population of each ward has been revised to 60,000 voters based on the 2011 census.
 
 Sources in the corporations claimed that the configuration of the new wards after delimitation will impact ticket allocation. Political parties will face a major challenge in the constituencies where the number of wards has gone down from existing four to three as they will have to reorganise their entire block-wise structure.
 
 “This may not go down well with the political parties as they will have to give multiple tickets to SC/ST candidates in a particular constituency. In some, the number of seats for SC/ST candidates may remain just one,” sources said.
 
 The SEC will now have to complete reassigning of polling booths along with demarcation of new boundaries in consultation with the three corporations.
 
 “By next week, we will assign returning officers (RO) for mapping of polling booths. Post delimitation, many polling booths have shifted to a new ward. The work of reassigning polling booths will take nearly four weeks. Simultaneously, ROs will also inform the residents about the newly-assigned polling stations of their wards,” added the senior official.
 
 
