NEW DELHI: Promising to “break the wall”, which divides benefits available to the rich and to the poor in the capital, chief minister Arvind   asked people to keep faith in the AAP government, which he said, was working for the ‘aam aadmi’ (common man).

 The CM was speaking at a ceremony in which the government released a subsidy of Rs 30,000 each to 6,000   owners. The platform was used to highlight the government’s “pro-poor” achievements in the past few years.
 
 “We understand the common man’s problems very well. The common man wants jobs, education for children and better healthcare. We are working on these issues,” Kejriwal said addressing a crowd of 5,000 people at the   complex. “We want similar education and healthcare facilities for both the rich and the poor.” He also mentioned the recently-launched scheme, which allows any Delhiite availing treatment at a Delhi government hospital to undergo surgery at a private hospital if the waiting period at the former is too long.
 
 The hall was packed to capacity even as a few thousand more had to wait outside the complex as they were not let in keeping security in mind.
 
 Referring to the Class XII results of Delhi government schools, which fared better than their private counterparts, Kejriwal said that AAP government was undertaking a complete makeover of government institutions.
 
 While intimation letters were handed out to 26 e-rickshaw owners out of the 6,000 who received the subsidy, including two women, Kejriwal announced that the government would disburse the amount to all the e-rickshaw owners by July 31 who will submit necessary documents by July 22. The scheme will continue even after July 31 for those who are unable to apply on time.
 
 Citing pollution as a major problem in the capital, Kejriwal said that e-rickshaw drivers were doing Delhi a favour by plying eco-friendly vehicles. “I hope we have e-buses and e-cars as well very soon,” he said.
 
 Calling the CM an aam aadmi, his deputy   used the occasion to recount how the AAP government had made water free within a week of coming to power and also managed to make power cheaper.
 
 
