KOLKATA: Traders at New Market,   and Firpo's Market, who have been fighting a long-drawn-out battle against hawkers occupying carriageways and pavements, may finally heave a sigh of relief. The state government and the KMC have directed the police to conduct regular drives to tame the vendors, notorious for flouting all rules.

 Following “pressure“ from mayor Sovan Chatterjee--Joint Traders' Federation members requested him to ensure the eviction of the errant hawkers--a police team has carried out eight raids on Bertram Street, Humayun Place and Corporation Place since Wednesday morning, rounded up 10 vendors and seized their wares for violating hawking rules.
 
 Even as they welcomed the police action against illegal hawking, the traders maintained sporadic raids “would not help“. “We are happy with whatever the police have done so far. But we need a permanent solution to stop the hawker menace. In order to achieve that goal, the KMC and the police need to implement the drafted hawker poli cy. If a vendor violates the rules, strong action should be taken against him,“ said Ashraf Ali, a joint general-secretary of JTF.
 
 Among their proposals, the police plan to ask the civic authorities to make the parking lot in front of the KMC headquarters main gate hawker free and also to earmark a portion of the roads till which the vendors can display their wares. They also want the civic authorities to register the vendors and issue them ID cards. “The mayor plans to inspect the area next Monday .This will be followed by a discussion, during which he will talk about the help he is expecting from us. We hope to make New Market free of illegal hawking,“ said a central police division officer.
 
 With the police freeing a portion of the roads in the New Market area, so far under siege by vendors, even car parking attendants seemed hopeful of doing some business at last. “We are glad that the police have finally realized how rampant the encroachment problem had become and taken action against hawkers, who do not bother to abide by rules. The new campaign has freed the parking space, which had been occupied by those hawkers. We want the police to continue with the drive,“ said Tapas Manna, an attendant on Bertram Stre et.
 
 Sources said they would set out on Monday's joint inspection, agreeing on one central agenda: to ensure that at least two cars can pass each other through the New Market roads. “For that to happen, hawkers can't spill over to the roads or use parked cars to sell their wares. Secondly , a third row of hawkers can't sit in front of the Hogg market, a practice we have been noticing for the past four years,“ said an officer from the New Market police station. The cops, however, pointed out that the encroachments could be cleared permanently only if the government implemented the draft hawker policy .
 
