Capturing beautiful moments for eternity with a camera was not just a dream but also her biggest passion. And hearing impairment was never a deterrent for her, but a challenge that helped her emerge a fighter and become an inspiration for others. Malvika Periwal, 30, is now an established wedding photographer who is conquering the world with her camera.

 More than 70 assignments from across the world and a large client base have helped her make it to the list of top photographers in the city. So, as CT kicks off the celebrations for  , here's a look at the inspiring story of the Kolkata girl who is making us proud.
 
 Love for art
 
 A resident of Alipore, Malvika is the eldest sibling with a younger sister and a brother. On being asked how her love affair with photography began, she said, “ Art was an integral part of my growing years; I've been passionate about it since childhood. I was able to receive mainstream education and attended normal schools like the National Academy for Learning in Bangalore and later, the Calcutta International School, where my interest in art took wing. I took up photography as a subject in A Levels in Mary Hare School in Oxfordshire, and then opted for fine arts in Central Saint Martins College of Art & Design, London. I was also fortunate to get an internship with celebrity photographers Dabboo Ratnani and Rohan Shrestha in Mumbai, where I got the opportunity to further hone my skills in this field.“
 
 UK calling
 
 According to her grandmother, Malvika had decided to pursue higher education in London when she was all of 10. “I managed to complete my schooling in Bangalore and Kolkata with the support of my parents and teachers. Mrs Kini taught me phonetic skills at the age of two to help me understand the English language with whatever limited facilities we had access to.With my impairment, it would have been normal for me to study in a special needs school in India and mainstreaming would have been very difficult.However, for further studies, it was important for me to get access to more support, such as note takers, interpreters and general special needs assistance, which is still not available here. So, I went to the UK for my photography training and it helped me become more independent and confident, while also improving my communication skills to a great extent.“
 
 Impairment no hurdle
 
 The diehard Coldplay fan admits that impairment has never been a barrier to her success and it would never have been possible without her parents' continued support. “My impairment has shaped my life, mostly for the better. Fortunately, my outlook towards life has changed and I can focus without unnecessary distractions. My family made things as comfortable for me as possible. I was always treated like a normal child and a lot of attention was paid to help me learn how to lip-read and talk. My parents involved me in everything, and never discriminated between me and my siblings or sympathised with me.Their right atti tude made me stronger in more ways than one,“ Malvika added.
 
 Though she admits that the journey of carving a niche in the field of professional photography was not a cakewalk for her, Malvika believes that her mother was her “biggest inspiration“. “I couldn't afford to be lazy! Thanks to the support I've received, I can look back and say that I've done my best without having to make many sacrifices,“ she revealed.
 
 Team CT salutes Malvika's undying spirit and wishes her all the best for her future endeavours. Way to go, girl! 
 
