CHANDIGARH: The   has asked the municipal commissioner for his views on the findings of the UT vigilance inquiry into former joint municipal commissioner Sarita Malik’s alleged role in promoting paid-parking irregularities.

 A year ago, the Chandigarh vigilance bureau had indicted   officer Malik for forwarding a note to approve the extension of   paid-parking contract to the same person, who was violating the terms and conditions reportedly. The UT vigilance wing had found glaring anomalies on the part of this former contractor and these related mainly to overcharging and not deploying proper staff.
 
 The vigilance bureau had even found that the   parking branch had not taken action against the contractor, despite these violations, and even recommended his case for extension to Malik, then joint municipal commissioner. Sarita Malik reportedly also approved lower staff’s recommendation to give him extension. Later, the bureau claimed that Malik’s role was only supervisory saying that she had been unaware of the case facts. It recommended to the CVC that the case against her be closed. The CVC, however, turned down the request.
 
 The UT vigilance wing has now written to the municipal commissioner for his opinion. The letter, a copy of which is with TOI, says: “The department took up the matter with the CVC to close the case in respect of Sarita Malik, as she was unaware about the factual position of the violations made by the contractor, and gave her approval for extension of contract of paid-parking lot of Elante Mall merely on the basis of the satisfactory recommendations made in the office file. However, you are requested to send your views on the findings of the vigilance enquiry at the earliest, as desired by the Central Vigilance Commission.”
 
 When asked about the letter, municipal commissioner   said: “We have the document but haven’t gone through the papers yet. The reply will be based on the records, report, and other facts.” The UT vigilance wing looked into violations at 10 paid-parking lots and indicted MC’s parking branch officials for spaing the contractors and granting them repeated extensions.
 
