KOCHI: At the Kochi General hospital,   Singh Pawar listened carefully to the naval officer reading out the document about accepting his son's body post-autopsy. He allowed a single tear drop to roll down his face before taking a moment to regain composure as he clenched his fist in pride.

 Rajbir Singh along with his younger son, Pankaj Kumar Pawar had just returned from   here where an organ harvest on his son, sub-lieutenant Atul Kumar Pawar, gave life to the hopes of four ailing patients, including an army man.
 
 “It was my dream to see him in uniform and he fulfilled it.Now, that he is dead, by giving life to four others, yet again he proved that his life and mission was only to serve the country and fellow citizens. Yes, we are in despair but we are overwhelmed with pride as he was a great inspiration to many including me,“ says Rajbir.
 
 The family of Rajbir was without a graduate until Atul grew up to become a civil engineer. Inspired by his son's achievement, Rajbir enrolled himself for a degree to graduate in BCom.
 
 Vikas, a friend of Atul, said he was strong-willed about not letting his father struggle again. “He had always lived for others and he did not think twice about fulfill ing his father's wish to see him in the defence force. He cleared his SSB (service selection board) for air force and was recommended to the  ,“ said Vikas.
 
 The accident happened on Monday early mor ning and Vikas learnt of it a day later. The friend from college years flew down to Kochi knowing that Atul was facing death at a hospital here in Kochi.
 
 “The last time I saw him was when he came to Panchkula for holidays. I was a couple of years older to him and he used to call me bhaisaab. I was into professional swimming and he used to join me whenever he was home,“ said Vikas.
 
 Atul, being an active NSS (National Service Scheme)volunteer during his school days was always into helping others. “He used to feed and bathe children on the streets. The mission to help others coupled with his father's wish made him choose the career,“ said Vikas who is also planning on joining the army .
 
 Surander Singh, Atul's uncle is an ex-army man. Atul did his graduate studies from  , Chandigarh. Originally from  , the family is now settled in Panchkula.
 
 Atul joined the Navy as a short service commissioned officer in January, 2015 completing his training at the   in Ezhimala.
 
