THIRUVANANTHAPURAM/KANNUR: Former chief minister   lashed out at KM Mani and termed KC(M)’s district-level alliance with  , a political betrayal. Chandy, who enjoys a cordial relation with KC(M) chief, expected Mani to return to the UDF before election in 2019.

 “There is no justification for his actions (joining hands with the LDF). Mani, who was with the UDF for the past 42 years, forgot that in his long political life, he was always at the receiving end of the CPM. Kerala will not accept this alliance. Many Kerala   (KC)members, who do not support this alliance, will oppose the party’s leadership,” he said.
 
 Chandy added that the party and the Congress had entered into an agreement two days ago and it failed to show some political morality. “KC leaders were not ready to speak to the Congress over the past two days. It was unfortunate that Mani decided to join hands with the LDF. There is no point in raising the question of his return to the UDF as he has botched that chance,” said Chandy.
 
 Opposition leader   said there was no place in the UDF for a person who came and went as he wished. He added that Mani’s action was nothing but an opportunistic politics. “Congress never criticized Mani when he left the Front without justification. The Congress always showed some respect (to Mani and his party); his political indecency cannot be justified. Mani cannot claim any political morality now,” said Chennithala, adding that the CPM was ready to accept the former finance minister after agitating against him all these years.
 
 Meanwhile in Kannur, KPCC interim president MM Hassan termed the Kottayam district-level alliance a political cheating. “It was implemented by Jose K Mani with the knowledge of his father. At an earlier meeting, Mani had promised to vote for the Congress candidate and he had repeated the assurance on Tuesday,” he said.
 
 “The move has upset even Kerala Congress members. UDF and Congress had to pay heavily for supporting Kerala Congress. But, we never cheated or backstabbed anyone. Even when KC(M) sat as a separate block in the assembly, Mani had promised that the party would continue as part of the UDF system. Now, what it has done is political backstabbing,” he said, adding that he would later reveal the reason behind KC-CPM relation.
 
 Hassan sought an explanation from the CPI. “CPI central leadership is of the view that the Congress should lead the fight against fascism. CPI should remember how C Achutha Menon was made the chief minister with the support of the Congress. Now, CPI is being humiliated by CPM,” he said.
 
