AHMEDABAD: Bollywood movies have long inspired   to travel abroad and explore less-known tourist destinations. New age travellers thus came of age, exploring offbeat locations and seeking unique travel experiences.

 It appears that globetrotters now are equally intrigued by the American television drama “Game of Thrones”, and being inspired to travel to destinations and locations that feature on it. They don’t mind shelling out a few lakhs for these unique travels. Tapping this lucrative opportunity, travel companies and tour operators have come up with specialized tours to destinations in Northern  ,   and   as part of the European holiday packages, that cover locations and cities that feature on the popular American television drama.
 
  Prominent destinations such as Tollymore Forest Park, Inch Abbey, Castle Ward, Cushendell and County Antrim are included on the Ireland itinerary, while Dubrovnik, Split Meereen and Trsteno, are popular in Croatia. “Experienced and seasoned travellers are usually the ones who usually prefer such specialized tours. Tours to Croatia sometimes are coupled with eastern Europe tours, including the Czech Republic, Austria and Slovenia. On the other hand, some people also prefer week-long tours to Croatia and Northern Ireland,” said Sanjeev Chhajer, a travel expert based in Ahmedabad.
 
 A five-day itinerary for Ireland would cost upwards of Rs 1.5 – Rs 2 lakh, while Croatia tours cost around Rs 2 lakh. Travellers from the city usually don’t mind paying that much to visit locations where the television drama was filmed.
 
 “The typical individual demanding such these packages is a die-hard fan who has studied the show in minute detail and the popularity of the series only serves to fuel a new interest in touring destinations like Ireland and Iceland,” said Rajeev Kale, country head of the leisure travel segment of a leading travel company.
 
 “We have incorporated theatrical experiences like the dramatic gorge at Thingveillir or the stomping ground of the White Walkers in Iceland; or even magical experiences like travelling along the natural tree arches of Dark Hedges on Kings Road,” he added.
 
 Northern Ireland is in fact a popular destination for travellers who have relatives in the UK, as local tour companies over there offer a host of packages to suit various budgets, a tour operator said.
 
 “Most travellers are youngsters from business and corporate families who can not only afford such holidays but are also seeking unique travel experiences. Such travellers tend to read up and are very well informed and thus get personalized tours designed to suit their needs,” said Manish Sharma, managing director of a city-based travel company.
 
 
