PUNE: The wide, shaded and smooth   is a  . Parking is also not a huge problem here. 

 The only speck in the eye are the motorcyclists   the wrong way for a considerable length of the road. Setting aside basic traffic norms, people, in a bid to reach the nearby roads, tend to drive the wrong way with the men in uniform not quite able to tackle the situation.
 
 Florist Dharmesh Amle said the problem had increased of late and the violators have no fear of the law at all. 
 
 “There is a petrol pump along the road and people tend to drive the wrong way to reach it. It has been an every day issue and they know the police will not catch them. Things have become worse and almost every day, minor accidents happen. There are arguments, but people don’t care. Around two weeks ago, three youngsters astride a bike riding the wrong way hit a senior citizen. When the crowd gathered, they fled the spot. No one seems to care,” Amle said.
 
 The road runs almost parallel to Fergusson College Road which witnesses a heavy crowd and traffic throughout the day. One has to pass signals and roundabouts to reach FC Road. 
 
 However, there are several lanes which connect both these roads. Many are one-ways, but no one bothers about it. With motorists including cars, having no regard and drive through these roads, there are traffic jams and small accidents almost every day. People, in order to save some time and energy, break the traffic rules openly, a road user said. 
 
 “Traffic signals are unable to stop many who zip past them even if the signal is flashing red. Police claim each day that many are caught and fined for wrong-side driving, but here the cops are hardly visible. The cops can mainly be seen in the afternoon and evening hours but most of the times, they are busy checking licences and papers. There are many who also tend to drive on the pavements,” Sahil, who works in an office located on the road, pointed out.
 
 Ateek Shaikh has been a victim of an accident. “ Two months ago I was walking down and suddenly a scooter came from the wrong side and hit me before I could even react and reach safety. The two men riding the two-wheeler did not bother to apologize and drove away cursing me for wasting their time. Fortunately for me, the injuries were not serious. The police must take some serious steps to clamp down on  ,” Shaikh said.
 
 There were two policemen on duty on Sunday afternoon on the road. One of them said, “In the last few days, many people have been caught and fined. The drive against this problem is on and we are serious about it. However, people should also be aware of the danger. We deal with offenders seriously,” the cops said.
 
