The police are on high alert this Republic Day. From the airport and railway stations to malls and popular markets and public places, colleges and temples -   checks are being done across the city.   ( ) teams have been working around the clock for a week, to ensure public safety on the 68th   of the country. We take a look at a few measures that are being taken by the authorities.

 
 
 
 To ensure smooth Republic Day celebrations, security has been tightened. In addition to conducting combing operations in busy areas, police commandos have intensified day-and-night patrolling around core areas of the city. DIG Harinarayan Chari Mishra says, “Over 750 police personnel will be deployed in and around the city this Republic Day. Besides the on-going stringent checking at the airport, railway station and bus stand, policemen are also combing hotels and lodges to verify and identify people staying there. Extra police will be deployed at prominent squares, colleges and places where flag hoisting programmes are being organised. Check posts at the entry points of the city have also been alerted.”
 
 
 
 
 In the midst of all the security checks, people can be seen going around in tricoloured clothes and sporting patriotic tattoos. At Regal Square, where an elaborate flag hoisting ceremony will be organised, a makeshift   has been erected. Prakash Rathore, the curator of the event, who also operates a sweet shop in the city says, “We will be paying homage to the   who took six bullets and kept fighting bravely despite bleeding profusely, in the Pathankot air force base terrorist attack on January 2, 2016. The deployment of extra police personnel at Regal Square is very reassuring. We will be able to hoist the flag and honour our martyrs with the support of the city police.”
 
 
 
 
 Three BDDS teams, along with sniffer dogs, are checking areas of mass gathering, like temples, old city markets, stations and malls to ensure security. Khalid Mushtaque, an inspector with the BDDS team shares, “Three teams with three members each and three sniffer dogs have been checking temples,   where the parade will take place, Radha Swami Satsang Sthal, Rajbada, etc. This is being actively carried out for the last10 days.”
