CHENNAI: Slamming an attempt by an executive officer to slap 'faulty' eviction notices on those occupying heritage mandapams in the famous   in   to enable the occupants to get the notices stayed by courts, the   has ordered action by higher officials of the   (HR&CE) department.

 “We strongly condemn such endeavours to assist the violating parties by sending defective notices, so that they may approach the court to obtain interim orders," said the first bench of Chief Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Justice M Sundar, and directed the joint commissioner of the HR&CE department to look into the aspect and ensure proper action.
 
 The matter relates to a PIL filed by advocate and activist Elephant G Rajendran, who had moved the court seeking appointment of a monitoring committee headed by a retired judge of the high court to supervise spending of large sums of money allocated for the Mahamaham festival in Kumbakonam in February last year.
 
 As a follow-up to the plea, Rajendran submitted material relating to illegal occupation of the four mandapams inside the tank and sought action. After counsel for the de partment assured the court that necessary action would be taken, notices were sent to the occupants on December 28, 2016 by the executive officer calling upon them to vacate the premises.
 
 However, Rajendran pointed out, the notices did not mention the provisions of law they had been generated.
 
 When the court put the question to counsel, he said they had been issued under Section 78 of the TN HR&CE Act, 1959. "On perusal of the provisions of Section (2), it is clear that the power vests with the joint commissioner. On our query now, counsel states that the notices are defective," the bench said.
 
 Strongly condemning the act and directing the joint commissioner to look into the issue, the bench said it would be his 'personal responsibility.' It then posted the matter to February 24 for further proceedings.
 
 In a related case, passing orders on the petition filed by Rajendran, the bench directed former district judge Solaimalai, who had been appointed by the court to supervise the expenses made from the funds allocated for the Mahamaham festival, to visit the areas concerned along with revenue officials and submit reports along with photographs.
 
