BENGALURU: Eight protected forest areas in   have lost 102 animals, including tigers, leopards and elephants, to poachers over the past five years.

 The   wildlife sanctuary is on top of the list, having lost 50 animals in all. These are the findings in the comptroller and auditor general's report which also points to the pathetic state of the anti-poaching force -poorly trained or untrained staff lacking even jackets and shoes and left to scout for toilets and drinking water.
 
 The   audited 10 protected areas and found the state of the anti-poaching camps (APCs), made up mostly of temporary staff, abysmal. Around 120 such staff complained about, among other things, having no access to water and not being provided training to deal with poachers.
 
 “Responses from 119 tem porary staff highlighted non-availability of drinking water, toilet facilities, medical insurance in MM Hills and   wildlife sanctuary,“ the audit read. It found that in Dandeli-Anshi,   and Bhadra tiger reserves, the staff did not get weekly offs.
 
 In eight protected areas, 84% of the temporary staff were not given any training.“The number rose to 100% at Sharavathi and Madikeri wildlife sanctuaries and BRT and   tiger reserves,“ the CAG said. The audit also found that many of the staff did not have shoes, jackets or raincoats.
 
 Staff from camps in all 10 protected areas complained of lack of training, while those from nine said they had no jackets. Staff from seven areas complained of no toilet, while those from six said they had no water.
 
 Even as the fighters on the ground struggle to get by, poaching has emerged a major worry in the past five years. Following MM Hills, Nagarahole and Dandeli each lost 18 animals. The poachers' favourite appears to be deer -27 were killed in 2017 -followed by sambar, 17 of which died last year. Poachers also killed 15 wild boars. One tiger, two leopards and eight elephants were also lost to poachers in these years.
 
 Madikeri and   wildlife sanctuaries did not report any poaching deaths over the past five years.
 
 The government and the CAG have both agreed that foot patrolling is one of the most important strategies to protect wildlife. “This is one of the old but crucial strategies for effective protection of protected areas from poachers and other forest offenders,“ the CAG has noted, recommending that adequate amenities and training be provided to staff at APCs.
 
 Principal chief conservator of forests (wildlife) Anur Reddy, however, said: “Not everything is bad in the forests. We are rated as one of the best states in the country so far as forest protection goes and that wouldn't be possible if things are all not alright. There are some issues which we are working on resolving.“
 
