It has been known for long that   are rich in nutrients, but an   study now shows they can be harmful to humans too.

  have proved that  , to distinguish them from those that grow on trees, are a source of pollutants in atmosphere. Spores released from a few types of mushrooms are a part of atmospheric bioaerosols and potential allergens and plant pathogens too.
 
 The study , conducted on the 687-acre IIT-M campus, found a 17% match between some mushroom species and spores in the atmosphere through a DNA analysis. It also found that spores released from mushrooms disperse in the air over longer distances till they find a host.
 
 Associate professor Sachin S Gunthe said it was the first time such characterization of source of fungal spores had been done in the country . “It has been known for decades that mushrooms emit spores but we conducted the study to actually show it happens,“ he said. Earlier, studies had been done separately on fungal spores in the atmosphere and the distribution of mushrooms on land.
 
 
 
 
 Fungal spores are tiny seeds released in large volumes from mushrooms during reproduction, mainly during the monsoon when the temperature and humidity are favourable. They stick to organic matter like tree bark and develop into mushrooms within a short duration. Prolonged inhalation or ingestion of these spores can cause respiratory ailments. They can damage nutrients in plants. They also act as ice nuclei and help form ice crystals in the atmosphere that influence the weather.
 
 A DNA analysis was done on the  . Simultaneously , an analysis was done on particulate matter PM10 collected in a filter paper to find a match between airborne fungal spores and mushrooms. An analysis of 165 mushroom samples found there are 113 species of mushrooms belonging to 54 genera and 23 families. Spores from the mushrooms and those from the air were further studied for shape, size and features. “Air is a primary medium for mushrooms to reproduce by releasing pores just like pollens in plants. Air helps them travel large distances till they find a suitable substrate to fall and grow. Vegetation is a hotspot for these mushroom pores to get into the atmosphere,“ said Hema Priyamvadha, a member of the research team.
 
 These spores, the team found, could travel as far as 100 metres, depending on the gravity current or speed at which they are released from the mushrooms. Till they hit a suitable substrate to further grow, they lie suspended in air surviving on carbon pores, gaseous particles and water vapour.
 
 “Previous studies showed they can travel up to 1km. If the wind blows at 2m per sec, it can help pores travel further,“ she said.
  
 
