BHOPAL: Though partially, the impact of the ban on polythene carrybags is visible at the ground level, not because of the administration’s efforts, but due to untiring efforts of a few green crusaders in the city. Despite constraints, some self-motivated Bhopalis are doing their bit to ensure that the hazardous carrybags are out of use completely. While the local administration is floundering to implement the much-touted ban, these selfless Bhopalis are leaving no stone unturned to make the city a better place to live in. 

 They are also rueing the half-hearted attempt by the administration to enforce the ban. “There are no clear-cut directives from the state government to implement the ban. As a result, we have been in a dilemma whether to use them or not,” said  , president of new market traders’ association. He added that there is still a lot of confusion regarding polythene.
 
 “The ban lost steam after a few days of its implementation as there was no proper monitoring on part of the state government to ensure that use of polythene bags is stopped completely,” said   ofAnsh Happiness Society, an NGO. He added that the government should have taken stern action against violators by imposing a heavy fine.
 
 When TOI visited markets, some shopkeepers said there is confusion galore. One of them said, “We have been given to understand that the ban is only for those who use cheap and low quality polythene, not for everyone. There are also rumours that the ban has been called off by government and we can continue its use. Shopkeepers have not been properly instructed, while no proper awareness campaign has been done”.
 
 Pollution Control Board Regional officer   said, “Various campaigns have been held to educate traders about the ill-effects of polythene bags, and few polythene production factories have also been locked up.” He said that malls and franchise stores have started using cloth and paper bag. Moreover, there are some vendors who have boycotted plastic polythene bags voluntarily.
 
 “The main problem is with vegetable and fruit vendors, as we are not able to implement the policy there,” said Bundela, adding that whenever a customer is caught with plastic polythene he or she passes the blame on vendors.
 
