KAKDWIP: A   has alleged that  , invigilators and others at his   has forced him to stop taking rest of the tests after writing the first three papers. The authorities have denied the charge and instead blamed the student,  , of cheating.

 The harassment claim allegedly followed a protest after the first day's Bengali paper by Arko's father Barun Misra against the invigilators, forcing all candidates at the Kakdwip Kalikadarikanth Institution exam centre to submit their answerscripts at the end of three hours instead of the three hours and 15 minutes stipulated by the Higher Secondary council.
 
 A science stream student, Arkodip did not appear for the physics test on Wednesday and chemistry paper on Friday . His father lodged a complaint against council nominee at the centre, Sudip Parua, and centre-in-charge Swaraj Maity at Kakdwip police station. Cops said a probe is on.
 
 Barun alleged: “When I complained that my son and other candidates at the centre are being forced to submit their scripts 15 minutes before time, the council nominee severely argued with me. On the next day's English exam, he went to my son's seat at the exam hall and pointed out to the centre-in-charge that he was the candidate whose father had complained the previous day . My son told me about it after the exam.“
 
 Barun further added: “The real harassment came on the third day's mathematics exam. It started with two, instead of one, invigilators entering my son's exam room. Both of them kept special watch over my son and took away his answerscript thrice during the exam and accused him of cheating.Though they returned the scripts each time, my son lost precious minutes.“
 
 Both Parua and Maity denied allegations. “The allegations are baseless.The candidate was cheating. So, our invigilators had to maintain a special watch over him,“ said Parua who was echoed by Maity . Reacting to the counter-allegation, Barun said, “My son is a very good student. He scored full marks in mathematics in Madhyamik. He doesn't need to cheat.“
 
 Aurobindo Kumar Mondal, the Higher Secondary council's A-I for exam centres in the Kakdwip area, said, “ After getting a complaint, I took a fivemember team to the centre on Friday .We wanted to examine the complaint and also ensure the exam at the centre was conducted smoothly .“
 
 SDO Kakdwip Rahul said: “The complaint, if true, is very serious.“
 
