JAIPUR: The forest officials have claimed to have  , one among three behind the killings of six villagers, in the   on Saturday. 

 “The leopard was trapped in a cage placed near Gopalpura village in the wee hours. It was sent to   for further examination like DNA test,” said a forest official, while adding that the test will determine the authenticity of trapped panther. The officials are suspecting that this panther was released from the Jaipur Zoo last year.
 
 The success is the outcome of massive hunt operation for the leopards by over 120 police personnel personnel which began a week ago.
 
 The administration has placed five cages with goat as baits, besides, 10 goats were tied at separate locations guarded by official to tranquillise them.
 
 The officials have also said that they are looking for two more leopards as they are suspecting trio to be involved in the killing villagers. “Three pug marks of three leopards were found at most of the attack sites. We are hoping to catch the other two in coming days,” said an official.
 
 The forest officials have been following the movements of leopard. “So far the traps have been placed at locations which has high frequency of the leopard movements,” said an official. 
 
 Meanwhile, the trap of this leopard has not deterred the villagers of 40 villages to get out of the fear. Since the attack has taken place, these villagers have preferred to live indoors. Even administration is on toes and making announcements through loudspeakers to take all precautions until they trap all leopards. 
 
 “I have stopped working since the attack on a villager was carried out by the leopard. The fear is so high that no one from my village is going into the field. I hope the officials will able to trap the remaining leopard so that we will start living a normal life,” said  , a villager. Since October 28, leopards have killed six villagers, mostly in the fields.
 
 These villages have been located along the forest area some of them are partially in the area. The villagers have claimed that for the first time, they have seen the animal-human conflict of this level. 
 
 “We have been living in the harmony from ages and rarely did we have attack on our domestic animals. These attacks have changed the equation between us and animals forever,” said Ram.
 
