Nagpur: Rhythmic footwork, lively expressions and fluid grace marked Kathak presentations by Avantika Kate and her students of Trivadha Kala Niketan. Titled ‘Na hi gyanen pavitrmahi vidyante’, meaning there is nothing more pious than knowledge, the presentation at Sai Sabhagurha mesmerized the audience on Monday evening. A disciple of renowned Kathak exponent Shama Bhate, Avantika along with 30 of her students presented various styles of the classical dance forms. Starting with a Shiva Natraj Stuti, the dancers on stage attired in colourful costumes followed it with Taal Tarang an innovative composition done by Kate. A combination of three taals, teen taal which is of 16 beats, Jhap taal of 10 beats and Rupak of 7 beats, Kate created a ripple like effect as her students divided in three groups performed to this combination played in a loop. In normal course the three taals are played separately. A solo performance based on Bindadin Maharaj’s thumri ‘Awat shyam lachak chale’ by Avantika was nuanced and brought out the underlying emotions of the composition. Fluid movements and pleasant expressions made watching her performance a pleasure. Gatnikaas which showcases the laykari or footwork in Kathak brought all the thirty students back on stage. Here, the various mudras like abhushan gat, chedchad gat, seedhi gat and bansuri gat were ably performed. Putting together three different ‘Hori’ a form popular in Kathak was the next presentation. The composition done by Kate had three types of nayika, mughda, the child, Madhya the young and pragalbha the adult at its centre. It described the various manners in which these three play Holi with Krishna. The presentations ended with an intricate composition ‘Antardwand’ by Kate and two of her students. “This speaks of the conflict between our inner self one which is positive and the other which is negative,” Kate told TOI ahead of the performance. Using the two students as her positive and negative reflections she brought out the triumph of positivity over the negative. A dilapidated auditorium, abysmal sound system and a small stage crammed with thirty students who felt restricted due to paucity of space could not take away from the talent and hard work which had been put in by the teacher and her students for this entire programme. 