KOLKATA: Commuting to and from work became tortuous for many on Friday with both   getting disrupted at different times of the day. Metro users from the north were hit hard after services between Dum Dum and   remained suspended for nearly one-and-a-half hours during the morning peak period. Later in the day, a religious procession disrupted   in central Kolkata for several hours, forcing people to search for alternate routes. 

 The Metro disruption started at 8.45am after a crowded   train stopped at Shyambazar. Despite all efforts, the train refused to resume its journey. Technicians realised that it was a case of ‘no-motoring’ and called in experts from the electrical department. Commuters were evacuated from the AC rake and asked to take other modes of transport. Passengers were also evacuated from other trains that stopped between Shyambazar and Dum Dum. 
 
 “As it didn’t seem that the affected rake would start soon enough, a decision was taken to start truncated services between Girish Park and Kavi Subhash. There were repeated announcements, urging people not to wait for trains to the north beyond Girish Park as we couldn’t be sure when the rake could be moved from Shyambazar. Finally, a decision was taken to tow the rake back to the Noapara carshed. However, this was difficult as there were other trains behind itAn inquiry has been ordered to find out what caused the disruption,” said Metro CPRO Indrani Banerjee. 
 
 Around 1 pm, nearly 8,000 people took out a religious procession that wound its way between Tiljala-Park Circus and Rabindra Sadan, throwing traffic out of gear for several hours. Buses were diverted and many people had to trudge for long distances. Many opted for the Metro and nearly all trains were filled to capacity. It was well after evening that things returned to normal. 
 
 “Since the procession crossed important crossings like Moulali, Esplanade and Park Street, it took us some time to restore order,” a police officer said. The worst affected were children returning from school and ambulances rushing patients to hospitals. “It took me 45 minutes from Ballygunge Phari to Park Circus. It makes little sense that permissions are sought without keeping the public in mind,” said Chandrima Lahiri, sitting in a taxi along with her daughter from school.
 
