 on May 20, starts with Kapil dressed up as police inspector Shamsher, who has just opened his police station. Bumper (Kiku Sarda) comes in and makes fun of Shamsher. Bumper continues with his poor jokes.
 
  Bumper asks Shamsher to leave their society. Shamsher mocks her at being fat. Sarla ( ) enters and asks Shamsher why has he opened police station opposite to their hospital. Shamsher makes fun of Sarla. Bumper comes again as 'hawaldar'. Shamsher asks her to arrest Sarla. A girl comes in Shamsher's police station to register against her lost boyfriend. She tells him that they had gone to watch Baahubali 2 and he got lost. Shamsher starts flirting with her.
  
  Bumper hawaldar enters the police station with a man. Shamsher calls him duplicate Akshay Kumar. Bumper tells he was standing outside and so she got him inside. Shamsher and Bumper take his case and confuse him. Shamsher asks him to sell ice cream. A woman then enters the police station complaining against her stuff which got stolen.
  
  
 
  
    then welcomes   for the promotion of her new movie ' '. Kapil praises her and tells her that he has seen all Manisha's movies.   compliments Manisha. Kapil congratulates Manisha for the movie and she tells the storyline of the same. Manisha tells how she had to recover completly from cancer and then take up any movie. Manisha tells about the political family she belongs to.
  
  Manisha tells Kapil how she told her grandmother about becoming an actress. Then she convinced the family. Manisha's mother was also present in the audience.
  
  Manisha's co-star in 'Dear Maya', Shriya Choudhary also comes in the show to promote the movie. Kapil tells everyone that this is Shriya's debut movie. Shriya is a model and then finally grabbed 'Dear Maya'. Sunaina Bhatnagar, the director of the movie was also present in the audience. She told everyone about how the concept of 'Dear Maya' came in her head.
  
  Kapil then played a game with Manisha where she had to guess the bodies of her co-stars with their faces hidden.
  
  Sarla comes in and asks Manisha to convince Kapil to romance with her. Audiences and Manisha's fans ask her questions.
  
  Baccha Yadav (Kiku Sarda) gives a special performance for Manisha Koirala leaving her speechless.
