JAIPUR: Under pressure to provide   as promised in the manifesto, the   is now exploring the   that binds industries to   to claim  . 

 With the ruling front in election mode, the government has now dusted a 21-year-old circular, issued by the labour department but not enforced, on providing jobs to local people.
 
 As per the circular issued in 1996, only those industries that provide employment to locals can avail subsidies, incentives and tax benefits from the state.
 
 However, in a complete disregard to this circular, successive governments have not shown the strength to implement the same.
 
 The industry department is now examining the circular legally to find if the same can be enforced for the benefit of local unemployed youth.
 
 "It's true that such a circular with the suggestion has been issued. But instead of implementing it, the labour department sat on it," said industries minister Rajpal Singh Shekhawat.
 
 "We are examining it to see how we can implement it in the state without violating anyone's fundamental right to work," added the minister.
 
 The matter was also raised in the assembly by an opposition Congress MLA in the last session. However, no reply was given by the ruling front.
 
 As per estimates, big industries receive interest subsidy of 5 to 7% along with slew of other tax benefits. However, the provision of providing employment to locals is not followed and companies hire people from other states.
 
 Government officials, however, attributed their failure to enforce the circular to court orders. But they didn't give an answer as to why the circular was not withdrawn by the government in the wake of 'adverse' court orders.
 
 "There were a lot of legal challenges in implementing the circular as several court orders, including that of the Supreme Court, indicated that no government can bind companies to hiring people. The disparity in selection process is against the fundamental right to work," argued an official from the labour department.
 
 
