MUMBAI: A section of the   community celebrated the start of a new era on Thursday. The elderly head of their religious   appointed his   at an initiation ceremony in Cancona, Goa.

 Srimad Vidyadhiraj Teertha Vader Swami chose 21-year-old Uday Bhat Sharma,   of a temple priest, as his nominee. The swami had spotted the youth during a religious sojourn in his village in Belgaum three years ago. He was trained for the top job although he will only take charge as the 24th pontiff after the passing away of the present swami.
 
 The Gokarn Partagali Jeevottam Mutt, which helms the Ram Mandir at Wadala, was instituted on March 25, 1475. Headquartered in Goa, it has followers in Karnataka, Kerala and Maharashtra. Guided by 23 swamis through its 542-year history, the present head is Srimad Vidyadhiraj (72).
 
 At an elaborate ceremony at the mutt headquarters in Goa on Thursday morning, ‘Shishottam‘ Uday Bhat took on the name of Vidyadheesh Swami, renounced worldly relations and virtually performed his own ‘shraddh‘, implying that he is dead to his family.
 
 “Ten thousand GSB members travelled to Goa for this once-in-a-lifetime ceremony. The present peethadheesh was ordained in 1967 and the next nomination could take decades,” said N N Pal, chairman, GSB Wadala Ganeshotsav Mandal, who attended.
 
 Swami Vidyadhirajji chanced upon Uday Bhat when he arrived to stay in the youth’s village of Kasarkod in Belgaum for the Chaturmas observance in 2013.
 
 “Swamiji was impressed by his eagerness, diligence and obedience and decided this was the youth who would in time be capable of handling the affairs of the order. He took Uday Bhat under his wings, to train him for the task. Over time, he attained proficiency in religious duties, and on Thursday the mutt put the seal on his succession order,” said Pal.
 
 Uday Bhat, born on October 10, 1995, has an older brother who works in the fields. His father owns a small patch of land in the village. 
 
 Interestingly, there was no factionalism to contend with or other contenders to trump. “To be honest, few youngsters these days are willing to come up and accept this onerous responsibility. Common priests can marry and raise families, but the head of the mutt must remain celibate lifelong and sever relations with his parents, siblings and relatives. In the age of the smartphone, few youth are willing to renounce a life of luxury for one of austerity,” said Pal.
 
 
