Lucknow: Flying wheeled chariots may have dominated skies in   in Hindu mythology millennia ago, but the idea of aerial darshan and prayers over sacred shrines will now turn into a reality in   Pradesh.
Ahead of Prime Minister  's September 22-23 visit, the Aditya Nath   government has finalised a plan to enter into a joint venture with Pawan Hans to float a company that will run helicopter jaunts at four sacred places in Uttar Pradesh.
 
 According to a September 1detailed draft on talks between Pawan Hans and Yogi government officials, a copy of which is with TOI, the four circuits are Ganga Darshan (Varanasi), Govardhan Parikrama (Mathura-Vrindavan), Triveni Darshan (Allahabad) and Ayodhya Darshan. Initially , three single-engine light helicopters are likely to be sent to UP by Pawan Hans, with a seating capacity of five people apart from the pilot.
 
 “The cost of a journey to each religious site will be Rs 2,500 per person. A visit to all the four sites will cost Rs 10,000 per person. We may offer discounts once the plan has been finalized,“ said UP tourism officials. The officials said that long queues of pilgrims, hotel stays and city traffic have deterred many worshippers in the past from visiting these pilgrimage sites, adding that government wants to tap tourism potential beyond wildlife ahead of 2019 Ardh Kumbh mela in Allahabad. The Ardh Kumbh melawill be a momentous occasion in 2019. We are trying to run the test flight in Varanasi when the prime minister arrives,“ said a senior UP tourism official. “The full service will be in place by Diwali,“ he added.
 
 Tourism officials did not clarify if the disputed site of Ram Janmabhoomi will be shown to travellers from close quarters.
 
 “We will get in touch with CRPF and security agencies in due course,“ said an official. The JV will have initial investment of Rs 25 crore each from Pawan Hans and UP Tourism Development Corporation. The terms and conditions of the draft agreement mandate a guarantee of minimum 50 hours of flying by the choppers by the state government.
 
 Pawan Hans will take care of the helicopter crew, fuel stock facility and safety norms, according to the meeting draft. Six helipads are being constructed to facilitate prompt take-off and landing.
 
