CHENNAI: Thursday’s accident between Pazhavanthangal and St Thomas Mount where seven men fell from a running train on the Chennai Beach-Tambaram-Chengalpet section while travelling on the footboard has only renewed the urgency to fulfil the long-pending demand of commuters for frequent services from the city to Chengalpet, Kancheepuram and Tirumalpur.

 The inability of the railways to run more frequent services is linked to the slow pace of capacity addition work on the section. A third line between Tambaram and Chengalpet has been sanctioned, but work is on at snail’s pace. Even if it is completed, railways cannot increase suburban services as a fourth line is required. For the latter, Railway Board is not giving sanction as it wants the Tamil Nadu government to contribute equally to the capital expenditure.
 
 Trains from Chennai to Tambaram are available once every 10 minutes, but the same is not true for locations between Tambaram and Chengalpet. Between 9am and noon, there is only one train every 30 to 40 minutes. These stop at all intermediate stations and there are only two fast services from Chengalpet. 
 
 "It is inevitable that we have to travel on the footboard, often dangling dangerously. People take the risk as the next train is available after 30 minutes and is slower," said S Aadarsh, a regular on the route. S Shivakumar, another passenger, said the accident could have been avoided had officials heeded regular calls to up frequency of fast services.
 
 But senior Government Railway Police officers say missing a train is better than putting one’s life at risk. "GRP and Railway Protection Force (RPF) has organised awareness programmes to educate people on avoiding  . It is a punishable offence under Railways Act," a senior official said.
 
 Asked about steps taken to check footboard travel, an RPF official said, "Since many colleges fall on this stretch, students are regular footboard travelers. We conduct regular checks during peak hours and make sure they don’t travel on footboards."
 
 According to RPF data, the Chennai Beach-Tambaram route is considered dangerous for  . Thirteen people died and 40 were injured during 2015-16 on the route. Also, data for 2015-16 shows 20 commuters were fined for footboard travel and 10 for jaywalking every day. However, commuters say monitoring is not enough and the apt measure would be to increase frequency of trains or have coaches whose doors close automatically when the train is in motion.
 
