VASCO: Churchill Brothers SC continued their resurgence under Derrick Pereira as they handed mighty   their first   loss but the 2-1 win was marred by an unsuspecting power failure that held up match for 39 minutes at the Tilak Maidan in   on Saturday.
 
  A 25th minute strike from Prabir Das had looked like Mohun Bagan would keep pace with league leaders East Bengal and Aizawl FC, both of whom had won earlier in the day. But Churchill Brothers turned the tables on their rivals with two second half goals from Anthony Wolfe (65th) and Chesterpoul Lyngdoh (74th).
  
  The lights then went off quite dramatically with 10 minutes still left on the clock and it was not until 39 minutes later that normal service could be resumed, but not before Bagan complained to the match commissioner that the lights were not good enough to continue.
  
  Mohun Bagan, at least for five minutes, had a point. One tower did not have the lights switched off in full due to problems arising from a non-functional generator but a few minutes later, they had no choice as the lights issue was resolved. Churchill had no difficulty surviving the 15-minute test – including added time – as they pocketed valuable three points and moved out of the relegation zone for the first time.
  
  The win, second in three games since Derrick was named coach, took Churchill to the sixth spot with 12 points and was entirely deserving. Not since the start of the I-League has Churchill played with such fluency. They were good with the ball, allowed Bagan little time to regroup and with Wolfe using his body strength and raw pace to good effect, Bagan’s back four had their hands full. Even Ghanefo Kromah and Chesterpoul caused plenty of problems with the ball at their feet. It were Bagan though who drew first blood after an initial spell of uncertainty. The goal was created out of nowhere by Sony Norde, whose cross from the left was perfectly headed past a diving goalkeeper by Prabir Das.
  
  Bagan looked comfortable for the entire first session and a part of the second but Churchill soon struck back. A clearance from Prabir landed well for Wolfe in the heart of the Bagan danger zone and the Trinidad and Tobago striker did well to keep his calm and place it past Bagan goalkeeper Debjit Majumder.
  
  Nine minutes later, Churchill had their tails up and the home crowd were on their feet when Chesterpoul emerged from nowhere to head the ball home even as Bagan defenders – Anas Edathodika and Subhashish Bose – were left to argue among themselves.
  
  Bagan never really recovered from that blow. Katsumi Yusa tried his luck from a distance and Darryl Duffy’s hopeful header landed into the safe hands of the goalkeeper. Whatever Bagan tried, Churchill proved equal to the challenge. This was Churchill’s night, never mind the floodlight embarrassment.
