NEW DELHI: On BR Ambedkar’s 126th birth anniversary, chief minister Arvind Kerjiwal said the AAP government would set up a commission for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes once the municipal elections are over.

 Coming a day after the AAP candidate’s humiliating defeat in the Rajouri Garden bypoll and just days before the April 23 civic polls in the capital, the move is being seen as an attempt to woo the Dalit community and sanitation workers. 
 
 Soon after Kejriwal shared his plan on the sidelines of a programme organised at the assembly to pay tribute to Ambedkar, the leader of opposition, BJP’s Vijender Gupta, questioned the timing of the statement. 
 
 “He is guilty of making such an announcement on government policy on the eve of municipal elections and openly violates the model code of conduct. This announcement is only a ploy to exploit sentiments of SC & ST communities,” Gupta said. 
 
 He demanded that State Election Commission take immediate action in the matter. 
 
 According to Delhi Statistical Handbook 2015, the Scheduled Caste population in Delhi was 28,12,309 in 2011. The voters from the SC communities and marginalised sections are seen as AAP’s core constituency.
 
 “In Delhi, there are several commissions, but no dedicated body for the SC and ST communities. After the corporation polls, we will bring a law to form a commission to provide justice to the people of these communities,” Kejriwal said.
 
 To enact the law, the AAP government will first have to draft a proposal and place it before the Delhi cabinet for approval. This will then have to be tabled in the assembly and once passed by the House, the Bill will be sent to the Centre through the lieutenant governor for the final nod. 
 
 Senior government officials said the process for setting up the commission would be in line with that of the central SC/ST commission. 
 
 The government will also study if the commission can be formed through a notification by the state or will have to brought only through a legislative procedure.
 
