HYDERABAD: Motorists travelling on city roads are in for a bumpy ride over the next four months. This comes following the  's ( ) decision to give digging permission for roads over a length of 3,572 km to various civic and private organisations. The civic body promises to repair the battered roads before the onset of monsoon.

 The works, among other reasons, are for pipelines, telephony,   wiring and power. The GHMC expects concerned agencies to complete everything including restoration by May 31.
 
 According to Subash Singh, chief engineer (maintenance), GHMC, the roads that pass through peripheral circles of the GHMC will be dug up. Speaking to TOI about the works that are going to be taken up by the Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply & Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB), he said, “The water board has told us that the water supply in the area was hit because of old pipelines. That is why after due deliberation, we have given them permission to dig up roads.“
 
 Besides the water board, road digging will be taken up by the Telangana State Southern Power Distribution Company Limited,  , Larsen and Toubro for CCTV camera project, Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited.
 
 While the works will help ensure basic facilities for people, residents are already dreading traversing battered roads. “The roads in this area are already bad. Not just us common residents, even the Hyderabad High Court has taken note of this issue and has asked the GHMC to repair the roads. If they want to dig up the roads, they must not do it at one go,“ said Suresh Kumar, a resident of East Anandbagh. In November last year, the Hyderabad HC had issued a notice to the state government seeking an affidavit from the GHMC detailing the steps taken to repair roads.
 
 “The road stretch on which we have to travel connects to a state highway. This means there is a lot of truck traffic on this road. Even the volume of traffic on this stretch is unbearable. So if the roads are dug up, it would only increase our commute time,“ BR Menon, who travels from Habsiguda Rd No 8 to Uppal daily .
 
 Defending the move, GHMC commissioner B Janardhan Reddy, said, “Before permission is granted for digging works by the GHMC, tenders for road restoration have to be finalised by the engineering wing and the dug up roads have to be re-carpeted immediately."
 
