AHMEDABAD: More than 220 candidates aspiring to posts of police constable and sub-inspector, from the minority and dalit communities, participated in the first-of-its-kind prep camp at city police headquarters on Tuesday. The candidates will start their 10 days of physical training from Wednesday morning.

 Top city cops said the objective behind setting up the coaching centre for minority and dalit candidates is to encourage their entry into the force, which will be a confidence-building measure in the present circumstances. 
 
 Most candidates have passed the written examination for the post of constable, taken in October last year. Some candidates took the examination for the post of sub-inspector recently. In all, officials said that there are 145 Muslim candidates along with 55 from Scheduled Castes, 14 from Scheduled Tribes and 30 from other backward classes. These candidates include 75 women.
 
 J D Vaghela, ACP (training), told TOI that the camp is aimed at helping students from economically weaker sections who can’t afford private classes. “The preparation will ensure that they face the approaching examination — expected to be taken later this month — with confidence,” he said.
 
 Officials said most of the candidates are at least graduates. Some even have master’s degrees. For instance, Harshad Jadav, 33, has MCom and LLB degrees, and cleared the written examination to be a constable. “I had lost my father when I was three months old. My mother had a difficult time making ends meet, while ensuring that I get qualifications. I still don’t have a job and thus decided to apply for the police recruitment,” he said.
 
 For Tabassum Chhipa, 23, an arts graduate from Raikhad, it’s all about fulfilling her father’s dream. “My father, a fruit vendor, had a dream to don khaki. However, circumstances did not allow him to do so. I believe I will have a shot at it and will serve society,” she said.
 
 Another woman candidate,  , 32, was inspired by her father who is an assistant sub-inspector. “When the recruitment news came, it was an easy call to make,” she said.
 
