KOLKATA/BANKURA/HOOGHLY/WEST MIDNAPORE: Even though   apprised   of the   situation in West Bengal on Tuesday, the state administration and DVC continued to lock horns over  . As the DVC continued to release water ignoring the state request, large parts of south Bengal remained inundated with Bankura remaining cut off from the rest of the state.

 An official of DVC said that following heavy rainfall in Jharkhand, there was release of water from Galudi and Tenughat dams. As a result, Damodar River Water Commission decided to release 60,000 cusec from Panchet dam.
 
 “We had asked DVC not to release more than 28000 cusec, but the corporation till 5.30 pm released more than 84000 cusec from Panchet and Maithan dams causing fresh inundation in several parts of Bankura, West Midnapore and Hooghly. They wrote us that it’s a downstream effect of overflowing of rivers in Jharkhand. We have written to the water commission on this,” state irrigation minister Rajib Banerjee said. 
 
 The situation has reached such a flashpoint that state chief secretary Moloy De had to speak to his Jharkhand counterpart Raj Bala Verma and request her to maintain a check on release of water.
 
 Rivers like Gandheswari, Darakeswar, Kansabati and Sali are flowing over the danger mark, hitting several areas of Bankura, West Midnapore and Hooghly. “Water of Gandheswari has touched Satighat Bridge — the main gateway to Bankura and we had to stop traffic movement. Traffic movement has also been suspended on NH-16 at Bheduasole. State highways like Arambhag-Bankura, Bankura -Purulia are also under water. The road to Durgapore is the only window and we have diverted all the vehicles to that route,” Bankura DM Moumita Basu Godala said.
 
 “The situation is grim in Indus, Sonamukhi, Bishnupur and Patrasayar blocks. We have opened six relief camps in which 1,500 homeless people have taken shelter. About 3,000 mud huts have been damaged. If DVC releases more water, then many more villages will go under water,” she added.
 
 In Hooghly, more than 15 low-lying villages in Khanakul went under water after a breach in embankment of Rupnarayan. 
 
 The administration shifted 4,000 people to 10 camps in West Midnapore. 
 
 
