PUNE: Getting the   tests done in the border districts of neighbouring   and aborting the fetuses in Maharashtra’s rural interiors may have been the modus in the  , investigating officials suspect. 

 Archana Patil, additional director, state family welfare bureau, state health department, said, “There is a strong possibility that the homeopath was conducting sonography tests in the rural parts of Karnatata and aborting the fetuses at his hospital in Sangli district. Our team is investigating on these lines. The report is awaited.”
 
 Activists said the implementation of pre-natal testing is fairly stringent in   as compared to Karnataka. “While the testing generally takes place in Karnataka, the medical termination of pregnancy (MTP) or abortions are carried out in Maharashtra as this monitoring is not very stringent here,” they said.
 
 Activist Sanjeev Dabhade said, “The state government may be a little stricter while implementing the provisions of the Pre-Conception and Pre-Natal Diagnostic Techniques (PCPNDT) Act, but the approach is lackadaisical when it comes to monitoring   centres. Doctors take willing families to states bordering Maharashtra for the sex determination tests and then carry out abortions at their hospitals here unhindered.”
 
 In 2013, the state health department had initiated steps to monitor doctors conducting sex determination tests and carrying out sex-selective abortions in districts bordering Maharashtra. Top health officials from seven states — Maharashtra, Karnataka, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat and Goa — first met in Lonavla to exchange information. 
 
 “The aim was to create a mechanism to check the menace of sex detection of fetuses in the border districts of Maharashtra,” said Asaram Khade, consultant to the state on issues pertaining to the  , while underlining the importance of public education in the border districts. 
 
 Another state health official who attended the Lonavla meeting said, “We have been receiving complaints of doctors taking people to the border districts of neighbouring states to perform sex determination using portable sonography machines. Some centres in these districts offer packages which cover, besides the test, the pregnant woman’s stay in hospital and the medical termination of the fetus.”
 
