NAGPUR:   cutting across an array of fields associated with agriculture were of the firm view that loan   given to farmers can never be a solution for the agriculture crisis that farmers of Maharashtra are reeling under. 

 These experts and activists were speaking at a seminar with theme ‘Farmer debt waiver — a political stunt or dream fulfilled.’ It was organized on Saturday by Agrovet, Agri-engineers Friends Circle, a non-government organization working for farm/ animal husbandry sectors. 
 
 Eminent   scientist C D Mayee said while a waiver was welcome as a temporary relief but its usefulness was debatable and it would not help in solving the basic problems that farmers are facing. Instead of such blanket waivers, he said the government would do well classify farmers on their land holdings size, and small farmers doing dryland farming could be given a fixed monthly subsistence allowance of around 1200. 
 
 Farm activist and writer Chandrakan Wankhede took the extreme stand painting all government of being totally unconcerned about farmers plight. “Since the governments are responsible for the plight of farmers,   waiver was essential to give them a fresh start. But this move cannot be expected to end farmer suicide though there will be a dip immediately after a waiver,’ said Wankhede.
 
 “Be it drought or best crop year, the farmer has to suffer because of government policies and so one should only expect the farmer suicides to continue till the very basic problems are resolved once for all,” added Wankhede supporting waiver as a temporary relief.
 
 “More than a dozen inquiries have been carried out till date by the successive governments to study the farmer suicide problem and rural distress. But no government has ever taken their reports seriously or tried to implement recommendations made by these eminent people — be it M S Swaminathan, Narendra Jadhav or that of  .” 
 
 Animal husbandry expert N N Zade farming can be profitable only if it supported by allied income supplement activities like dairy farming and fishing or sericulture. He also lamented that fodder cultivation was ‘no one’s baby’ and going after cash crops was ruining farmers.
 
 Agrovet secretary Pranay Parate said politicians were vitiating the scene by supporting farm loan waiver from time to time. “It is more of a populist measure to suit a political party to garner farmers’ sympathy and vote than a permanent solution. Instead the farmer should be bailed out by way of government infrastructure in markets, availability of irrigation facilities, quality inputs,’ he added. Retired banker Arjun Ghugal and an entrepreneur in agri-processing field Arvind Bakde were also not in favour of loan waivers saying it would held only a minuscule of farmers as most of them were out of the institutional finance coverage.
 
