Noida: A 45-year-old ‘developer’ was arrested by crime branch on Thursday for duping several homebuyers in Noida. The accused,  , a resident of  , is the managing dirctor of GBG Infratech Pvt Ltd in Sector 70.

 According to Rukmina Singh, a homebuyer, Sanjay Kasana and his wife Riya Kasana had launched a scheme to develop an apartment in Sector 66 in 2012. The two had promised to provide a 2BHK flat for Rs 18 lakh. Singh said he got information about the scheme and visited the site with Kasana. “The developer promised to give the flat in one year. I paid Rs 1.5 lakh as advance. I visited the site after six months and found that no development works had taken place,” he said.
 
 He again met Kasana and enquired about the matter. The accused said that he was unwell and hence the work could not start. The complainant said that the developer again demanded Rs 1 lakh which he paid. Later Kasana told him that there was some technical problem at that site and the flat would be delivered at some other location.
 
 Singh said he visited the second location and found it in Gandhi Chaukhandi village. “I paid a total of Rs 6.61 lakh to the accused in several transactions. But the developer started ignoring my calls and also failed to deliver the flat,” he said. Following this, he registered a case against the accused on April 8, 2017 in Phase III police station.
 
 A woman named Pushpa Kumari, a resident of Indirapuram, also registered a case against Kasana on February 22, 2017 alleging similar fraud. She came in contact with Kasana who promised her a house at low rates. The woman said she paid Rs 7.51 lakh but the accused did not deliver home.
 
 Meena, another homebuyer and a resident of Sector 93, registered a case against Kasana on March 1. She allegedly paid Rs 3.5 lakh to the accused but did not get home. “When I mounted pressure, the accused promised to return my money. He gave me two cheques of Rs 50,000 each which bounced in the bank,” she said.
 
 Preeti Bala Gupta, SP (crime), Noida said that Phase III police arrested the accused from Sector 63 market on Wednesday night. “There were five cases of cheating registered against the accused. We are investigating his crime records and the number of people duped. We scanned his bank accounts and found zero balance. We are trying to find out the money trail,” she said.
 
 The accused used to show off the homebuyers his lavish lifestyle by displaying photos with high end cars and bodyguards. Police said at present the accused does not have any car. He was produced in court and sent to judicial custody.
 
 
