CHENNAI: Calling for a comprehensive solution to address the menace of unapproved layouts and indiscriminate conversion of farmland into housing plots, the   has, yet again, declined to vacate its September 9, 2016, order imposing a blanket ban on registration of such layouts across the state.

 A bench of Chief Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Justice M Sundar, before whom the batch of PILs by activists and implead petitions by developers and individual land owners came up for further hearing on Monday , posted the matter to February 27 after advocate-general of the state sought some more time.
 
 When the case was taken up on Monday morning, advocate general R Muthukumaraswamy said the chief secretary was busy with several issues. So finalisation of rules to address the issue would require more time.
 
 While the state's request for adjournment was acceded to by the bench, the pleas of counsel for others who re presented developers and land owners for a relaxation of the ban at least in respect of buildings already constructed on unapproved layouts were rejected outright by the judges.
 
 Any indulgence on this score would take the matter back to square one, reasoned the bench. Noting that the government was asking for more time to come out with a solution, the bench said it should not be a piecemeal exercise. A comprehensive solution is what is needed now, the bench said.
 
 Advocate and activist `Elephant' G Rajendran, whose PIL on indiscriminate   into   led to this blanket ban, in his submissions, said the authorities could consider his representation in the matter. There were about 13.28 lakh unapproved house plots in the state, he said adding that they should not be regularised unless it was disclosed how it would find `17,600 crore required for developing these layouts.
 
 The developers had sold off the common areas in layouts as well, he said and sought to know how the local bodies proposed to retrieve the mandatory common areas from the developers.
 
 The government had in the past granted regularisation seven times between 1999 and 2008, he said and added that there should be no layouts adjacent to state and national highways. Guidelines such as these framed by DTCP and other authorities could not be given the go-by in the name of regularisation, he said.
 
 After he submitted that the government had not considered his representation, the bench asked authorities to take them into consideration. The court's timely blanket ban has been having a chilling effect on the thriving unapproved housing plot sector.
 
 
 
