BHUBANESWAR: A team of   (SPG) officials discussed with DGP K B Singh and commissioner of police Y B Khurania here on Wednesday to finetune security for prime minister  , who is scheduled to address   here on April 15 and 16.

 The SPG officials and state police personnel inspected  , the venue of the scheduled two-day meeting. “We discussed threadbare the PM’s security and other arrangements for smooth conduct of the two-day meeting,” Singh told TOI. Around 60 platoons of police force are likely to be deployed for Modi’s security as well as for 400-odd delegates. 
 
 Modi apart, a host of BJP top shots like national president Amit Shah, home minister Rajnath Singh, finance minister Arun Jaitley and several other union ministers besides the chief ministers of BJP-ruling states are scheduled to attend the event, which is perceived as a preparation to replicate Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand electoral victory in Odisha in 2019 elections. 
 
 Police will be on the toes as Modi comes under high risk category politicians having received terror threats to his life in the past. During his visit to Puri on February 7, 2016 Modi left his SPG guards on the edge by hanging out of his vehicle and waved at the crowd on the Grand Road. Modi, who proceeded towards Puri helipad after his return from the Jagannath Temple, stood on the front left side of his moving bullet proof Safari and waved at the crowd for nearly one kilometre on the Grand Road. SPG guards had all but to run and surround his snail-paced cavalcade from Jagannath Temple to Hospital Square. The Odisha Police and SPG heaved a sigh of relief when Modi shut himself in the vehicle after crossing the Hospital Square. 
 
 Experts said the Prime Minister should cooperate with the SPG protocol. “The very purpose of providing a bullet proof vehicle to PM is defeated if he remains exposed to the outer periphery for a long time. Threat perceptions to Modi multiplied ever since he became the Prime Minister. Last year Goa police received a threat letter, which threatened to harm the PM,” said a retired police officer. 
 
