AHMEDABAD: City crime branch is working on a   (app) specially designed for the safety of auto-passengers in the city. Further, police verification of auto owners and drivers will also become mandatory in the coming days. Police officials said that this had been decided because of the rise in number of crimes committed by auto drivers. 

 The cellphone application, to be named  , is user friendly, said officials. Before boarding an auto, a passenger just has to enter the registration number of the auto into the app and, within seconds, the antecedents of the driver and owner of the vehicle will appear on his cellphone. The passenger can then decide whether to board the auto or not.
 
 "It will also be made mandatory to write the name and address of the auto owner and driver prominently inside the vehicle so that a passenger can see the writing," a senior crime branch official said.
 
 "The city police commissioner is soon going to issue a notification to make police verification mandatory for auto-owners and drivers. There are more than 1 lakh autos in the city. It would be massive task for the police to gather all the information before Auto-App goes public," the police official said. Assistant commissioner of police, crime branch,  , said passengers who don't have a smart phone do not have to worry. "They will just have to SMS the registration number of the auto to a cellphone number and they will know whether the driver has a criminal history or not," Zala said. "The cellphone number is being specially set up for such passengers."
 
 Meanwhile, early this week, the city crime branch conducted an operation at various places, including the railway station and bus stands, to verify the autos plying in the night.
 
 "We detained about 542 autos and collected a fine of Rs 1.5 lakh from other drivers who had  . Around 250 persons arrested earlier in connection with thefts and robberies in autos, were cross-checked. We have launched another operation - to trace 36 such persons with tainted history who were not found at their homes during the verification drive," Zala said.
 
 
