TRICHY: A   from the early  , dating back to 10th century CE, has been discovered in   at   situated near Mannachchanallur in Trichy.

 Land measures were of different sizes and were used to measure wet and dry lands of the neighborhood during the Chola rule. Standardized land measures with specific names were also in use as mentioned in the inscriptions at the temple.
 
 While deciphering the epigraphical records engraved on the southern basement of the mukha mandapa, a team of archaeology enthusiasts and scholars stumbled upon the land measure that is marked on the fillet immediately above the basement.
 
 Assistant professor, department of history, Aringar Anna Government Arts College, Musiri, R Akila and head of history department at Seethalakshimi Ramasami College, M Nalini, have undertaken an explorative study of the temple. According to them, similar scales have been found in more than 10 temples in and around Trichy. Interestingly, this particular scale mentions in its inscription, the Anthanallur temple near Trichy.
 
 Director of Dr. M. Rajamanikkanar Centre for Historical Research, R Kalaikkovan, who examined the measure, said that the scales are represented as two engraved plus marks with a distance of 1.50 meters between them. Though no label inscription is seen here as found elsewhere in Trichy district, he said this particular measure can be identified as a local land measure since it exceeds the usual size of sculptor scales found so far in Tamil Nadu. The concerned authorities have been informed about the discovery of this scale.
 
 Avanisvaram, a Saivite temple, probable built during the early reign of Uttamachola in 10th century Common Era, is a protected monument and is under the care of state department of archaeology. The temple only has the sanctum and a mandapa in front. The super structure of the sanctum is lost due to the ravages of time. The temple is rich in inscriptions. The miniature panels carved in the basement depict selected themes from Bhagavata, Sivapuranas and Ramayana. Scenes of cultural reflections of the by gone era are also noted. More than five dance modes of Siva are found recorded here. 
 
