CHANDIGARH: Two days after a school bus rammed into a truck near airport light point and left two of its minor occupants injured, parents demanded on Wednesday that school buses have seat belts for all, fewer occupants, a GPS app, functional   cameras, more emergency exits, and better trained drivers and attendants.

 In a check conducted by TOI on Wednesday, it was found that many buses, including those of the school whose bus met with Monday's accident, were overcrowded and students were made to sit on stools fitted inside the buses. “The attitude of bus drivers and conductors towards children and parents is harsh. They indulge in pointless arguments if we get a bit late in receiving our child,“ said  , the parent of a student of Mount Carmel School, Sector 47.“There is no GPS installed in the buses. Also, school authorities do not hold any responsibility towards buses' conditions,“ said another parent who had come to receive his child.
 
 However, the contractor of buses ferrying students of   said the idea was not wise or feasible “In case of an emergency, it will slow down the removal the children from the bus. But, if parents insist, we will follow suit,“ said the contractor, Gurpreet Singh.
 
 Parents said attendants were sometimes careless and did not maintain a list.
 
 Narrating an incident, a parent said his daughter, who studies at a school in Sector 9, was left behind because of the “carelessness“ of the bus driver and the woman caretaker.
 
 The student recently took admission in Class XI and was unaware of the surround ings. On Wednesday, when the parents questioned the driv er and the care taker in front of T e a m TOI, they refused to take any ac countability and said students of Class XI and XII usually stayed back for extra classes.
 
 The mother of the student, who didn't want to be named out of fear of action from the school, said that school authorities charged separate money for the woman caretaker. “But she does not even own up to her mistakes. How can a child be safe in such hands?“ she asked.
 
 Chandigarh Parents' Association president   demanded strict implementation of STRAPS policy. “Schools should have transport committees to negotiate and deal with transport contractors and bus staff. These committees must have parent representatives on board. This will ensure greater transparency and better safety of children,“ he said.
 
