RANCHI: The   cabinet on Wednesday approved the state housing board’s decision to make housing societies under it free of  . The 11-member   approved that the   can move for giving permanent ownership to the families living illegally in the flats for more than 10 years by levying 30% of the market value of a respective flat in a one-time payment. A total of 24 proposals were approved by the cabinet in Wednesday’s meeting.

 “The board will realise 70% of the remaining value through monthly instalments, payable for 60 months,” cabinet coordination secretary Surendra Singh Meena told reporters at the Project Building after the cabinet meeting concluded in the evening.
 
 The cabinet approval stated that the board will only grant permanent ownership to the families that do not own a residence within the city limits. “Only one member of a family will be alloted the flats. The board will levy penalties of Rs 25,000, Rs 35,000 and Rs, 50,000 respectively for lower income group (LIG), middle income group (MIG) and higher income group (HIG) families,” Meena said.
 
 In another decision, the cabinet approved a Rs 406 crore purse for construction of a convention centre in Ranchi smart city premise and Rs 183.77 crore for urban civic towers.
 
 The cabinet also okayed the disbursement of Rs 42.39 crore for a water supply project in Ranchi’s Mahilong area and sanctioned Rs 252.43 crore for solid waste management project in Tilaiya in Koderma district. A sum of Rs 62.34 crore was sanctioned for a water supply project in Chatra town and Rs 74.23 crore was approved for construction of a new judicial academy building in Ranchi.
 
 The cabinet approved the formation of a new guideline for the implementation of Gram Panchayat   and extended the working tenure of contractual teachers in residential schools run by the social welfare department for another 18 months.
 
 The Das cabinet approved a proposal of seeking Rs 756.84 crore loan from Nabard for implementation of the Swarnarekha Project and disbursed Rs 64.12 crore under Namami Gange project. It also gave approval to a memorandum of understanding between the Defense Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), the Airport Authority of India (AAI) and the state government for construction of an airport in Deoghar.
 
 The cabinet gave its post facto approval to a Rs 6,136 crore loan given to the Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited (JBVNL) in the 2015-16 financial year.
 
 
