NEW DELHI:   and his family were in for a rude shock when seven “income tax officers" barged into their   home in south Delhi on Sunday morning.

 Flashing “IRS officer" ID cards, the men got off their Tata Safari, which had a “government of India" sticker, and began their “search operation". The shell-shocked family was bundled into various corners and their mobile phones taken away as the men claimed to be busting a big black money ring.
 
 The 'sleuths' seized Rs 20 lakh from the house and were on their way out when they saw a CCTV camera and panicked. This was when neighbours and RWA office-bearers gathered and confronted them. The 'I-T team' turned out to be a gang of crooks. The men were thrashed and handed over to the police after a two-hour drama. 
 
 Interestingly, one of the accused, Mitesh, is a real life I-T informer who decided to earn a quick buck with help of his friends.
 
 According to DCP (II) of south Delhi, Chinmoy Biswal, six men have been arrested and booked under sections of impersonation, fraud, assault, abduction and extortion. The accused have disclosed that they were “inspired" by news reports of I-T officers cracking down on black money and decided to impersonate them.
 
 The drama started at 10.30am when the “I-T officers" arrived with a notice claiming that the family had disproportionate assets worth Rs 20 crore. The men first bundled the businessman's son into their vehicle and questioned him. Later, they began to search the house.
 
 The family smelled rat and raised alarm when the accused asked the family to switch off the CCTV camera and hand over the recorder.This was when around 100 neighbours led by its president cum special police officer, Sanjiv Rao, gathered around the house suspecting a robbery bid. “Ramesh's daughter came up to me and sought help. I went to the house and saw that the men were searching the drawers. I asked them to stop and show me their ID cards, but they asked me to go away" said Rao.
 
 Rao then called up a friend who works with the I-T department. “I made one of the imposters talk to my friend and within a moment the real tax man he could make out that he was a fraud," Rao added. Police were then informed. SHO (Malviya Nagar) Satender Sangwan and his team rushed to the spot.
 
 The crooks even knew the sections of I-T under which the officials had the powers to conduct a raid. Even in police's custody, they claimed to be real officers. The informer, Mitesh, claimed to an assistant commissioner of income tax.
 
 The other accused are Naunhyal, Yogender Kumar, Govind Sharma, Amit Aggarwal and Parvinder, who was the driver. Cops are looking for Kailash who managed to flee.
 
 
