Gurgaon: The mastermind in the   scam unearthed last month in Gurgaon,   alias Kala, has named the former and the present in-charges of the police arms licence branch as his collaborators.

  Bhardwaj had tied up with licensed   retailers, police officials and two illegal   based in Khurja of Uttar Pradesh. He bought imported weapons from the retailers for cheap, had them copied by the gun-makers and sold them as real imported guns for a cool Rs 6-14 lakh, on the condition he would get the weapon licensed.
 
 At the other end, four cops ̶ who have been suspended, ̶ were also allegedly involved. With Bhardwaj’s confession recorded, the possibility of them getting arrested has risen. The SIT has recovered three more weapons ̶̶ a pistol, a revolver and a single barrel gun ̶̶ on Wednesday, from retailer Royal Gun House in Jagadhari, Yamunanagar, where the accused allegedly hid his weapons, and recovered a fake license of another co-accused, Mohan Lal. Co-accused Sunny, Bhardwaj’s assistant, was produced in court on Wednesday and sent to judicial custody.
 
 Expectedly, cops were cagey about commenting on the role of the four suspended cops, ̶̶̶̶̶̶̶̶̶̶̶̶̶̶̶̶̶̶̶̶̶̶̶̶̶̶̶̶̶̶̶̶̶̶̶̶̶̶̶̶̶̶̶̶̶̶̶inspector Jasmer Singh, former in-charge of the arms licence branch, sub-inspector Virender Singh, the current in-charge of the branch, JCP’s reader ASI Vikas and branch employee head constable Mahesh. Sources said Bhardwaj said he had given the four their “share” of the spoils, on the basis of each licence registered.
 
 While the role of the four cops is yet to be confirmed, police sources said Bhardwaj has claimed he had paid Rs 50,000 to Rs 1 lakh per license to both the former and the present in-charges of the license branch. 
 
 “We are trying to reconstruct the roles of the four cops, which is not clear yet. We can’t take the statement of the accused at face value, but we’ve suspended them. If we find any of them involved, action will be taken as per law,” ACP Anil Yadav, head of SIT, said.
 
 Bhardwaj’s modus operandi was unique ̶. He targeted people who were seeking re-registration of their arms licenses. Once they had got their licenses re-registered, he offered them foreign-made weapons.
 
 “The accused was in touch with weapon makers ̶̶ Kurban and Rehman ̶̶ of Khurja in UP, and in cahoots with weapon retailers, from whom he bought the foreign-made weapons against the arms licenses, which retailers kept on display as rejected since the ban on import of foreign-made weapons in 1986. He bought these for as little as Rs 40,000-2 lakh, and used them to have copies made. The serial number and marker on the old weapon would be affixed to the fakes, and sold for up to Rs 14 lakh,” said an investigating officer. “We’ve put weapon retailers in Haryana and adjoining areas under the lens,” said DCP Kuhar.
 
