MANGALURU: Children receiving awards from beaming parents and family members, for acquitting themselves well in examinations, is par for the course. However, to motivate its students to perform well in the upcoming SSLC examination, a government girls’ high school here has offered free flight tickets to Bengaluru for those scoring 600 marks and above (out of 625).

 The school on Car Street had, in fact, incentivised good performance for the 2016 SSLC examinations too. “Last year, I told students that if they scored 90% and above, I would arrange a flight ticket to Bengaluru, and show them around the city. The students responded well to the challenge. That batch achieved 100% pass percentage, and three girls received the award,” said Rajeevi, headmistress of the school.
 
 The idea to motivate students by offering them rewards was mooted by the Government Composite PU College, following a decline in enrolment to the school, and its poor pass percentage in the SSLC examination in the past years.
 
 Prathvi, Sushma and Ayisathul Shabnam respectively scored 93%, 91% and 90% in the 2016 examinations. “Along with the science teacher, K Sujata Hegde, we flew the girls to Bengaluru last June. It was their first flight. We also took them around Bengaluru, and showed them some of the popular tourist spots. We returned to Mangaluru by road. The three students opted for commerce in pre-university, and are studying well,” Rajeevi added.
 
 Prathvi, whose mother rolls beedis, was delighted when she was selected for the award. “It motivated me to continue my education,” she said. While Shabnam’s father is a daily-wage labourer, Sushma’s education is funded by her father, a mason, while her mother is an   worker. All three of them are from Kodikkal.
 
 The teachers maintained that the trip was paid for through donations from private organisations. However, sources in the school claimed that the teachers had to foot the bill for the trip.
 
 The teachers said that their aim was to improve the performance of students of the school, most of whom were from the economically weaker sections of the society. The number of students from the school writing the SSLC examination this year is 47.
 
 However, this year, the target for a seat on the Bengaluru flight is slightly stiff. The students will have to score 600 or more out of 625 – 96% and above – to qualify for the award.
 
 
