MUMBAI:   had met his 23-year-old son, Arjun, on April 2, a day before he leapt to death from the 19th floor of a five-star hotel in Bandra (W) and had found him disturbed. The next day, the economics student checked into the hotel and late in evening he recorded his act on   and uploaded it, explaining disturbing suicide steps, which went viral.

 Police found the mobile in the suite from where Arjun jumped to death. He shot the act around 6pm on Monday and uploaded a sunset scene from the window in an FB post. At 6.15pm, he called his father and they spoke for a few minutes before he leapt to death after breaking the window using a wooden chair.
 
 A Bandra police officer said, “The Bengaluru businessman said he found his son disturbed and depressed when he met him in   (W). However, he did not realise his son would end his life. He did not stay to record his statement. We found nine suicide notes in the hotel room.”
 
 Police found the student checked in at 3am after submitting his Aadhaar and college identity cards. He did not mention the duration of stay but paid Rs45,000 for the room using his bank card. 
 
 A security guard on duty on the floor tried to break open the door after hearing the noise. Police said the guard rushed in after he realised someone was trying to break the window pane. “The guard said he got suspicious when the sound got louder from Bhardwaj’s room. I alerted the reception and tried to enter with the master key but Bhardwaj had locked the room from inside. Hotel staff and the guard broke open the door but it was too late. In the suicide note, Bhardwaj said he was sorry for his act,” said a police officer.
 
 Police learnt from Chatur that his son was depressed due to repeated failure in exams. “Bhardwaj spoke to his father at 6.15pm and ended his life 10 minutes later,” said the officer. Chatur, who was in Mumbai since April 1, arrived at the hospital immediately after he received a call from the police. 
 
 After the post-mortem at Cooper Hospital on Tuesday, police handed over the body to his parents and two younger brothers, who arrived from Bengaluru. Police said they took the body to their relatives’ home in Chembur and the final rites were to be performed in   late in the evening. Chatur held police responsible for the live shoot going viral on WhatsApp.
 
 Meanwhile, Bhardwaj’s friends on Instagram mentioned that he seemed unwell for 14 days and showed suicidal tendencies. In one of his posts, he stated, “There’s nobody, just soul.” A friend said he used to talk about ending his life and added, “In one chit, Bhardwaj claimed exam failure led him to take the step. He thanked friends for taking care of him. He also told them, in one of the nine notes, to take care of his younger brother.”
 
 
