AMRITSAR: Taking a step towards ecofriendly living, the Union government has initiated a project to make a model organic village in every district of Punjab to promote organic farming, beginning with the villages adopted by Lok Sabha and   MPs.

 The assistant director of Regional Centre of Organic Farming, R S Harish Srivathsa, told TOI on Friday that they have begun the process of making clusters of farmers interested to adopt ecofriendly farming. He said the model organic village would set a precedent for others to follow.
 
 The department had recently given a demonstration on organic farming at Aladinpur village, adopted by former Union minister and Rajya Sabha MP  , in   district where several farmers had desired to adopt conventional mode of farming. He informed that farmers’ major concern was marketing their produce.
 
 “Once a cluster is formed and registered under the state government’s agriculture department as regional council, then farmers would get all the benefits, including financial assistance, technical skills and market linkage given under   scheme,” said Srivathsa adding that given the general inclination towards organic products, farmers would get better price for their produce.
 
 He informed that the department had developed waste decomposer, which would transform the farm waste into organic fertilizer within 45-60 days. “To replace 50kg of urea, we need to have 3,000kg of organic fertilizer and department would provide a waste decomposer to farmers at a nominal price of Rs 20 per bottle,” he said, adding that farmers could themselves make organic fertilizer for their use. The preparation could be used through drip irrigation or for regular disease control by spraying on standing crop.
 
 The department had recently sought help from Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) to spread awareness about organic farming among farmers. “We have seen farmers opting for organic farming when the message goes to them through religious platforms,” Srivathsa said.
 
