 The juvenile accused in sensational gang rape and murder of minor girl in Ghugus town died in mysterious circumstances at government children observation home on Monday morning. The children home officials have termed it as sudden but natural death. 

 The deceased and his two friends   (26) and   (19) were arrested on Wednesday for gang rape and murder of minor girl in Ghugus open cast mine dump yard at the outskirts of the town. Sources claimed that the accused minor had an affair with the minor girl and had called her to meet in the remote mine dump yard. He was accompanied by his two friends. The trio forced themselves upon the girl and when she threatened to tell her parents, they decided to kill her. They crushed her head and face with heavy stone and fled from the scene. 
 
 Children home officials informed that the juvenile woke on Monday morning at around 6.30am complaining of dizziness. While carrying his sleeping mattress to first floor, he collapsed suddenly. The remand home officials immediately rushed hin to civil hospital where the doctors declared him brought dead. The exact reason of his death could not be ascertained as post-mortem report was awaited. The post mortem will be conducted in-camera in presence of magistrate rank officer. 
 
 The juvenile had attempted suicide at his residence when the dead body of the minor girl was recovered by cops. He consumed the paste of mosquito coil with chemical used for making manja before hanging himself. However, he failed in his bid as the rope he used to hang himself snapped due to his weight. After the parents learnt about his suicide attempt, he was rushed to local private hospital for emergency treatment.
 
 Cops investigated into the angle and soon learnt about connections between the juvenile and the minor girl. He was arrested from the hospital later in the evening. During interrogation, he spilled the beans and gave names of two other accused involved in rape and murder. His accomplice Aakash and   were arrested late night on Wednesday last. While the juvenile was sent to children observation centre in Chandrapur, other two adult accused were remanded to police custody on following day. The juvenile got no further treatment at children home after he was arrested.
 
