How does one introduce Ram Boolchand  ? A lawyer par excellence? Irrepressible? The proverbial phoenix in the inseparable legal-political theatre of India, he has constantly reinvented and reinvigorated himself from decade to decade. 

 In the process, he has earned fame in and outside courts. But his caustic tongue continues to be a magnet for controversies.
 
 Jethmalani, who will celebrate his 94th birthday on September 23, has been a teacher of law to judges, advocates and politicians since he took part in the murder trial against K M Nanavati in 1959.
 
 Politicians, criminals, businessmen, rich and famous troubled by court cases have instinctively come to him, trusting his magically analytical brain to weave a web of doubt over evidence to persuade judges to give the benefit of doubt to the accused. If there was a celestial court to decide the consequences of divine wrath, he would have been the ideal advocate to plead for leniency.
 
 Jethmalani is that kind of lawyer, who is best described by American comedian Steven Wright, “I busted a mirror and got seven years bad luck, but my lawyer thinks he can get me five.”
 
 A non-exhaustive list of his clients gives a glimpse of the immense trust litigants repose in his ability –– L K Advani,  , Lalu Prasad, J Jayalalithaa, B S Yeddyurappa and Kanimozhi; Haji Mastan and Harshad Mehta; Asaram Bapu and Baba Ramdev;   attack case accused. 
 
 The list would remain incomplete if one forgets to mention his demolition of the Bofors payoff case to get the Hinduja brothers discharged.
 
 His legal prowess earned him friends in politics. He had become active in politics during Emergency and got elected to Lok Sabha for the first time in 1977 from Bombay.
 
 Since 1988, he has been a member of the Rajya Sabha, representing Rajasthan, Bihar and Karnataka in the upper House. Jethmalani has also got himself embroiled in legal suits. 
 
 In 1983, he sued Swaraj Paul in London following a spat with him. His verbal duel with  , during proceedings of M C Jain Commission inquiring into the events leading to assassination of  , led to a defamation litigation between them.
 
 So, it was no surprise when Delhi CM   rushed to him when facing civil suit and criminal case filed against him by finance minister  . 
 
 Besides Jethmalani’s proven prowess as a lawyer, Kejriwal also chose him considering the former’s hostility for Jaitley. It worked well for both Kejriwal and Jethmalani for some time. Jethmalani used the opportunity to keep embarrassing Jaitley during cross-examination.
 
 The tables turned on May 17, when Jethmalani got carried away and used a derogatory word for Jaitley, who kept his cool and asked Jethmalani whether the word was used by himself or on his client’s instructions.
 
 “Client’s instruction” was Jethmalani’s instinctive reply. Jaitley promptly slapped another defamation suit against the CM.
 
 Rattled, Kejriwal denied instructing Jethmalani to use the word. Jethmalani never takes kindly to anyone who discredits him, rightly or wrongly. If he can bite with words, he stings with his tail too. The fallout was swift and furious. 
 
 Jethmalani exited as the CM’s counsel, but not before sending a stinging letter to his erstwhile client. 
 
 But in the process, he probably crossed the line of professional ethics for advocates drawn by the  . He made public the letter giving details of what could be privileged communication between him and his client.
 
 For, the rules on an advocate’s duty towards the court say, “An advocate shall be dignified in use of his language in correspondence and during arguments in court. He shall not scandalously damage the reputation of the parties on false grounds during pleadings. He shall not use unparliamentary language during arguments in the court.”
 
 Jethmalani also appeared to breach the rule on an advocate’s duty towards his client, which says, “An advocate should not ordinarily withdraw from serving a client once he has agreed to serve them. He can withdraw only if he has a sufficient cause and by giving reasonable and sufficient notice to the client. Upon withdrawal, he shall refund such part of the fee that has not accrued to the client.
 
 “It shall be the duty of an advocate fearlessly to uphold the interests of his client by all fair and honourable means. An advocate shall do so without regard to any unpleasant consequences to himself or any other. He shall defend a person accused of a crime regardless of his personal opinion as to the guilt of the accused. An advocate should always remember that his loyalty is to the law which requires that no man should be punished without adequate evidence.”
 
 Moreover, Section 126 of Indian Evidence Act, 1872 provides, “No barrister, attorney, pleader or vakil shall at any time be permitted, unless with his client’s express consent, to disclose any communication made to him in the course and for the purpose of his employment as such barrister, pleader, attorney or vakil, by or on behalf of his client, or to state the contents or condition of any document with which he has become acquainted in the course and for the purpose of his professional employment, or to disclose any advice given by him to his client in the course and for the purpose of such employment.”
 
 No one can ever imagine teaching law or rules to Jethmalani. But sometimes, even the best slip.
 
