Apart from being an actor and a TV host,   describes herself as an 'accidental activist' on her social media profile. The actress, on different occasions, has often raised her concerns regarding safety of women in India. She was also trolled recently for her tweets addressed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi about making the country safe for women. The actress started this social media campaign after she visited Delhi recently. She was here to shoot for a TV series and visited India Gate and Qutub Minar, apart from various markets like Sarojini Nagar, Janpath, Khan Market and Shahpur Jat. She says that although visiting the monuments and markets was fun, she didn’t feel safe while walking alone here.

 
  
  The Qutub Minar was among the monuments Shenaz Treasury visited while she was in Delhi
 
  "I went to the   with a friend, and as soon as we entered the place, there were almost 10 guys there who first started staring, then following us. Initially, we ignored it, but then decided to leave soon. I also went to a party in Delhi, but while I was at the party, I was more worried about reaching my hotel in   safely at 1am. I wasn't sure whether I'd be safe in a cab, so I kept checking the map on my phone every minute, just to ensure that the driver was taking me in the right direction. I was very nervous. I am sure what I went through, every Delhi girl must be facing while travelling in the city. But why should we always be worried and live in fear? This was the reason I started this social media campaign where every morning, I tweet to PM Modi and the Supreme Court that they should take some steps soon to make this country safe for women," she says. Talking about her connection with Delhi, she adds, "I first came to Delhi with my parents when I was 15-years-old. We went to see the Red Fort, and I was walking behind my parents and some guy who was walking along touched me inappropriately. I screamed but he was acting so cool about it. I did not create any further scene and left. I kept coming to Delhi for some work, but it was only recently that I decided to see the monuments. Things haven't changed much when it comes to the security of women. It is really sad as Delhi is our capital and one of the most beautiful places in India, but if a city can't make its women feel safe, then everything else is worthless."
 
 
  
  
 
 
  The actress, who has worked in films like Delhi Belly, is now gearing up for her Hollywood project, where she plays a daughter-in-law in a US-based Pakistani family. "The film is about this family that has been staying in America and how they face racism. What is shown in the film is very true. Even when we travel to America, we all face racism in some form or the other. Things are getting more difficult now," says Shenaz, who is also working in a web series titled Brown Nation, "which is about an Indian girl married abroad and the difficulties she face while adjusting to the lifestyle there."
 
 
 
