NAGPUR: Keeping up the pomp and festive spirit as seen during Ram Navami, Hanuman temples of the city will also be celebrating Hanuman   with grandeur, as several shobhayatras and events are set to take place.

 Hanuman Mandir, Tekdi Road, conducted a programme of bhajans on Saturday and ‘Chhappan bhog’ was offered to hanuman on the occasion.   will be celebrated on Tuesday from 5.15am with aarti and abhishek of idols. Mahaarti will be held at 11.15am followed by distribution of mahaprasad throughout the day.
 
  Hanuman Mandir, Rajabaksha, will take out a shobhayatra from east to west Nagpur, and will have over 60 creative floats. Founder secretary,  , has announced that there will be no change in the path of the shobhaytra. At 4.30pm, aarti of the main rath will take place. At 5pm, the rally will leave from   and go to Hanuman Nagar, Krida Chowk, Chhota Tajbagh Chowk, Ayodhya Nagar Chowk, Vanjari Nagar, and return to the temple at 10pm.
 
 Shri Sankat Mochan Hanuman Charitable Trust, Wardhaman Nagar, will host events on April 11 and 12, which will begin with the consecration of Lord Hanuman followed by aarti and distribution of prasad.
 
 At the Hanuman Mandir in Ram Nagar, which is over 60 years old, rituals will begin as early as 4am, and the lord will be offered bhog at 6.30am. 
 
 The event will see rendition of kirtans, and narration on Sunder Kand, Valmiki’s book which depicts the adventures of Hanuman. “Crackers will be burnt and we will also have a band. Sunder Kand will be narrated with a fusion of Hindi songs,” said Rajiv Kalele, secretary of Paschimeshwar Nagpur Hanuman Mandir.
 
 “The oil, sindoor, flowers and leaves that are offered to Lord Hanuman gives energy to the devotee. His forehead is marked with sindoor with the smallest finger. His aarti is done with incense sticks that have the perfume of kevda, chameli or amber. There is a scientific reason behind every ritual that is performed,” said Namita Kakde, beautician and member of Hindu Janjagruti Samiti.
 
