GURUGRAM: The lawyer who had committed suicide on Saturday by   in her chamber on the district court premises had a miscarriage a few months ago, and had sent several text messages to her husband telling him that she wanted to take the extreme step on the same day, according to Suman Dahiya, vice chairperson of the Haryana State Commission for Women.

 The women’s commission has taken suo motu cognizance of the case. Dahiya visited the district court to hold a meeting with district and sessions judge Harnam Singh Thakur and other senior judges seeking a detailed probe into the role of the woman’s husband and parents in-law in her death.
 
 “It is not a simple case of suicide. Many new facts have emerged and police need to investigate all aspects,” Dahiya said, adding that the role of her husband and in-laws needs to be investigated to find out what instigated the woman to end her life. “Why could her husband not take any step to stop her from   even after receiving messages saying she is going to die?” she asked.
 
 Hina Bhatia (32) lived with her husband, a software engineer working with a private firm in Gurgaon, and her nine-year-old daughter in a rented flat in Hans Enclave Colony near Rajiv Chowk. No suicide note was found, according to police.
 
 Hina, who belonged to Himachal Pradesh, started practising with senior lawyer Ajay Wadhwa around seven months ago. She used to reach the court every morning and sit in Wadhwa’s chamber number 332 in B block, according to police. 
 
 On February 11 too, Hina was working in the chamber and when no one was around, she allegedly hung herself from the ceiling fan with her dupatta.
 
 Wadhwa in his statement before the commission said his junior colleague showed no sign of depression even on the day of the incident. “I shared whatever details I had to help cops in the investigation,” he said.
 
 Dahiya said it was learnt that her husband was the first person to arrive at the chamber, where she had committed suicide, and brought down the body hanging from the ceiling. “It was strange to know that instead of calling people, her husband brought down the body and even locked the chamber leaving dead body inside. The door of the chamber was later opened by police,” Dahiya said.
 
 Sudesh Yadav, president of the district bar association, said it was unfortunate that such incident took place on the court premises. “We have decided to set up a committee comprising three women lawyers and two male lawyers. Any lawyer can approach the committee seeking help to solve any grievance, even though it is a personal problem,” Yadav said, adding that the panel will also hold seminars and workshops on a regular basis to help lawyers deal with any personal and professional problem.
 
 
