Chandrapur: Yet another case of a student being failed in Std IX exams, after his parents refused to pay building funds to the school administration, has come to fore in Mount Carmel Convent High School. Rajesh Jain on Monday complained to the police that his son Dharmanshu was declared failed in Std IX despite clearing all subjects and was given a Leaving Certificate but denied a mark sheet. Principal Nitya Joseph and social science teacher Sana Khatri of the school have already been booked for failing a student after his father, Rajesh Thakur, refused to pay Rs2 lakh building fund as demanded by the principal. The second complainant, Rajesh Jain, claimed that when he went to take his son Dharmanshu’s result, principal Nitya Joseph said that his son has failed in the final exam. When Jain demanded to see the answer papers and mark sheet, she refused to hand them over. Jain alleged that principal Nitya sought donation of Rs25,000 for construction of the auditorium, which is underway in school premises. She also warned him that if he fails to give the fund, his son will be failed in Std IX. Jain said that since he refused to give building fund, a leaving certificate with vague remarks stating ‘Needs Improvement in Std IX’ was issued to his son. This leaving certificate has no mention of whether his son passed or failed Std IX. “The school administration also refused to give the mark sheet of my son. None of the other schools were willing to give admission to my son for lack of a mark sheet and the negative remarks on his TC. Now, my son has lost an academic year and is suffering from depression,” Jain alleged. However, it came to fore in RTI documents obtained by the other complainant, Rajesh Thakur, that student Dharmanshu Jain had cleared all the subjects in the exam and scored aggregate over 54%. Still, Dharmanshu was failed for not giving building fund, his father Rajesh Jain alleged. He also gave names of 12 other parents, whose wards had been failed by Mount Carmel Convent in Std IX for refusing to pay building funds. At a press conference, Jain expressed his intention to approach the courts and seek justice for his son. In a complaint given to the superintendent of police, Jain has demanded criminal action against school administration. He also sought inquiry about how many students were given TC in 2016-17 academic session, whether construction of auditorium in school is legal, and whether it is mandatory for parents to pay for it.