New Delhi: A day after TOI reported the details of the JNU case chargesheet, the   said the   in the “sensitive” case was still on and the   would be submitted only after it was over. They, however, did not contradict the details.

 Sources said the then JNUSU president,  , was likely to be chargesheeted not for   but for being a part of conspiracy that was hatched to carry out seditious activities in the university on February 9. A call is yet to be taken if Kumar should be named in column 12 of the chargesheet that means, cops say, he could have been involved but there is no evidence to prove it. 
 
 In all, 11 people will be charged with sedition. Cops claimed that they had ample evidence against Umar Khalid and Anirban Bhattacharya, two other JNU student leaders, and would secure their conviction for waging war or attempting to wage war against India. Cops have also detailed the role of nine outsiders for sedition as well. Most of these 11 people belong to Aligarh Muslim University, Jamia and JNU, while some are working class professionals. 
 
 The police have information about how a conspiracy was hatched to garner support for anti-India activities and how Khalid and others had mobilised support by sending invites through Facebook before the event in which anti-India slogans were allegedly raised. The witnesses include the JNU administration and university students affiliated with ABVP and Democratic Students Union, and security guards. A few students who were part of the organising committee have also been made witnesses. 
 
 The video clips of the event have been declared genuine by the forensic lab in Gandhinagar. Most were shot by cellphones of security guards and other students present at the event. The lab has also said the original footage shot by a news channel was not tampered with. The clips that turned out to be fake were not taken “on record” by the police.
 
 Indicating that it was probing a larger conspiracy, Special Cell had interrogated several Kashmiri youths in August and September last year. The mobile locations of the nine outsiders were cited to corroborate their statements before the police. 
 
 The youths were asked about their antecedents, associations, movement and about the February 9 event. Significantly, they were also asked about their whereabouts during the time stone-pelting started in Kashmir around July.
 
