Its architecture was nothing close to what one usually frames while thinking about a library. There were no long-handled celling fans hanging from Victorian roofs or grungy vintage wooden desks with “silence please” signs on them. The mandatory bespectacled elderly librarian flipping through a forgotten classic too was missing. And books? Well, there were five —  ,  ,  ,   and  . Baffled? Don’t be as the library in context is a human one where readers can “pick” a person to garner first-hand experiences.
And the terrace of   was buzzing on Sunday with bibliophiles as members of the   gathered to be a part of the launch of this   (HLP). “The idea is to break stigmas and stereotypes associated with the community by bringing the life stories of the LGBT members to the forefront. Seeing the positive feedback of people, we are thinking of organising more such   events in the near future,” said Hiranmayee Bachu, 25, who along with photographer Sachin Upot organised the event.
 The books interacted with the readers in four sessions of 30 minutes each. Each of the books was picked up by four to five readers and they sat circled around them listening to their respective tales. And five different stories unfolded simultaneously flipping different chapters about five different lives. 
 While some narrated accounts of the trauma one experiences being a lesbian in a conservative society and answered questions on criminalisation of LGBT Section 377 of IPC, others shed light on issues ranging from being tomboy shamed in childhood to the stigma of a transgender.
 Jayati, 40, lesbian activist, who works as a financial advisor, one of the ‘human books’ at the HLP said, “I am overwhelmed by the response. This is a fantastic medium for me where I get to interact with so many people from different backgrounds.”
 When talking about human libraries, it’s but obvious to think of it in relation to the Danish concept developed in 2008 by former journalist Ronni Abergel. So, is it an offshoot of the Human Library Organisation? “HLP Hyderabad doesn’t intend to host theme-based events alone. In the future, we want to include other crucial topics around which there is a lot of taboo and silence. We are also in talks with the Copenhagen-based Human Library organisation to open a Hyderabad chapter of HLP,” said Bachu.
 
