No song from the South has taken over the nation like  , with Kolaveri being the only exception. The peppy tune not only has managed to get everyone grooving but made them post videos of their versions on social media as well. Indeed, the song has such an infectious beat that within a few listens, one is likely to start humming the tune.  , who has composed the song from the film Velipadinte Pusthakam, is the happiest man alive, and is basking in all the attention it has garnered. Shaan speaks to Kochi Times about how the composition came about, and the various dance videos it has triggered. 

 
 
 
 I am really happy but relieved as well. Being a composer, deep inside there is always this question whether a song will be well-received. However, this one went to a whole new level; I hear it being played not just in schools and colleges but in workplaces too. Coincidentally, my song Thiruvavani Raavu became the Onam song last year, but it was completely traditional. Jimmiki came out during this year’s Onam but it had nothing to do with the festival. I think it is the folk tinge that has struck a chord with the people. When I see all the umpteen videos of it flooding social media, I feel the song has now broadened its horizons, and it is heartening. The latest video I saw was one from Dharavi, Mumbai, in which they have kept the chorus in Malayalam and then mixed in Hindi lyrics and a bit of rap. 
 
 Jimmy Kimmel tweeting about it was the icing on the cake. 
 
 
 
 
 Seriously, I have no idea (laughs). Probably, it is because of the combination of a lot of things, including the right decisions taken at the right time. It was Benny P Nayarambalam, the scriptwriter of the film, who suggested the first four lines, which are often sung by schoolchildren. While he asked me to compose something similar by keeping the metre intact, he specifically told me not to use the same lyrics. The lyricist Anil Panachooran and I had a discussion. But after composing it, we didn’t feel like changing the original four lines — Endammede jimmiki kammal endappan kattondu poye, endappande brandy kuppi endamma kudichu theerthe. I spoke to the film’s director, Lal Jose chettan, about retaining the lines, as it had a recall value and he agreed. All those right decisions perfected the song.
 
 However, I was a bit cautious about not crossing the fine line between being wacky and unrefined; endamma and endappan can come across as crass if you cross the boundaries. But I think that is probably the success of the song, which made everyone, from kids to adults, sing along.
 
 
 
 It was a challenge with such quirky lines. However, there have been such instances earlier as well. Vineeth had once penned Enne Thallandamava Njan Nannavoola, and then there was Kaikkottum Kandittilla Kayyil Thazhambumilla. All of them went on to become hits. It’s actually an interesting experience to compose tunes for such unusual lines.
 
 
 
 Vineeth Sreenivasan, of course, was the first and only choice for the song. I sent the track to him, but specifically told him not to learn the tune. I asked him to just give it a listen and get a feel of it. During the recording, I told him that we won’t be having multiple takes. I wanted to keep it as real as possible so that anyone can easily sing it. Recording it more times will make it sound polished.
 
 And guess what, he completed it within 15 minutes! The song features two groups- one from the village and the other from the city. I had Renjith Unni lending his voice for the latter.
 
 
 
 
 I have already finished composing for Aana Alaralodalaral. Up next is Aadu 2, post which I have Dhyan Sreenivasan’s Goodalochana and Sachin Son of Viswanathan. I will also be doing the music for Prithviraj-Parvathy’s My Story and a few Telugu films.
 
 
 
