"Etthina prati velu muduchukovali. Jarina prati noru moosukovali,” thundered  , speaking at the pre-release event of  . His message was for the naysayers: After the film hits the screens, every finger that was pointed (at Chiru i.e.) will be folded back in and all the taunts heaped will fall silent. 

 Well, the sheer scale of Chiru’s landmark 150th film proves beyond doubt that his decade-long hiatus from the silverscreen hasn’t diminished his crowd-pulling ability one bit. The figures tell the story.
 
 
 
 The film is releasing in about 325 theatres in Nizam (Telangana) region —– that’s close to 70% of the total screens in the whole state. The movie is opening to 300 shows in Hyderabad alone on January 11, the day of the release. Most screens are running housefull, says leading distributor Sunil Narang. 
 
 Infact, the euphoria surrounding the film has crossed international borders as well. The film is releasing in over 2,500 screens across the world. Several construction companies in the Gulf have declared a holiday on Wednesday. The Mega fans in Omaha (USA) held a car rally to promote the release recently. In Texas, fans booked an array of buses that will parade in the honour of the Megastar. Looks like Sankranti came early for Chiru’s fans.
 
 
 
 Produced by   and presented by Surekha Konidela under Konidela Production Company, Khaidi No 150 releases today. And Charan is more than chuffed. “I don’t think there is any word in English language that can describe the euphoria surrounding film aptly. All I can say is that this is a reflection of the unconditional love and support. A big thank you to the Telugu film lovers. I am overwhelmed,” says Ram Charan.
 
 
 
  
 #KhaidiNo150
  so cool to see him back on screen!!
 
 
 He is back and how!!!
 Check out the trailer of #KhaidiNo150 We are 
 waiting for Jan 11th !!!
 
 Allu Arjun
 BOSS IS BACK!!!
 
  
 11th January 2017. Mattallevvv! Matladukodallevvv!!! #KhaidiNo150 
 
 Sai Dharam Tej
 Mega (Star)!!!!! for a reason.
 
 
 
 
