NEW DELHI: Defending its decision of notifying rules prohibiting sale and purchase of   at animal markets, the environment ministry on Saturday said that the move would remove the scope of “illegal sale and smuggling“ of bovine and ensure welfare of the animals in the livestock markets. “The prime focus of the regulation is to protect the animals from cruelty and not to regulate the existing trade in cattle for slaughter houses," said the ministry after getting couple of representations from different stakeholders including those who expressed their concerns over its impact on legal animal trade.

 Allaying such concerns, the ministry said, “The specific provisions apply only to animals which are bought and sold in the notified livestock markets and animals that are seized as case properties. These rules do not cover other areas“. Different representations, both in favour and against the move, were received separately by the environment minister   and the environment secretary  .
 
 Though the ministry said that the representations received would be duly examined, it came in details with the rationale behind the move of notifying the rules. The ministry said, “It is envisaged that welfare of cattle dealt in the market will be ensured and that only healthy animals are traded for agriculture purposes for the benefits of the farmers“.
 
 Emphasising that the livestock markets are intended to become hubs for trade for animal for agriculture through this process, it said the animal for slaughter will have to be bought from the farmers at the farms.
 
 “The purpose of the Rule is to ensure welfare of the animals in the cattle market and ensure adequate facilities for housing, feeding, feed storage area, water supply, water troughs, ramps, enclosures for sick animals, veterinary care and proper drainage,“ said the ministry. Referring to the background of the notification which came in the backdrop of a   order of July last year, the ministry said that the draft Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (Regulation of Livestock Markets) Rules, 2017 was notified on January 16 inviting objections and suggestions from all persons likely to be affected by it within 30 days.
 
 
