NEW DELHI: A   post alleging apathy by   has gone viral on the internet. The video shows police officers stopping an   carrying an ailing child from Sonipat to allow   movement near Rajghat on Saturday. Cops are seen arguing with the public after which they allow the vehicle to pass.

 The youth who shot the video,  , works at a bank in central Delhi. Around 9am, while he was on his way to work, Narula saw that the police had erected barricades near Rajghat flyover for smooth movement of the Malaysian prime minister’s cavalcade.
 
 “There were 40-50 cars waiting at the barricade when we heard an ambulance siren behind us. Everyone decided to move their cars in the left lane to allow the vehicle to pass. However, the cops   it when it reached the barricade,” said Narula.
 
 Narula stepped out of his vehicle and was joined by a few other drivers to convince the cops to allow the ambulance to pass, but they refused. “The child inside the ambulance was bleeding from his head and nose. A relative travelling with him told us that he had met with an accident at their village in Sonepat and had been referred to a hospital in Delhi,” said Narula.
 
 In the two minute video, the cops are seen asking for orders from their seniors on their wireless set after which they refuse to allow the ambulance to pass. “They kept asking us to wait for 5-10 minutes to allow the VVIPs to pass, but the child was in a critical condition and had lost consciousness by then,” Narula said.
 
 People kept arguing for nearly 30 minutes after which a few passersby forced the cops to push away the barricade and let the ambulance pass.
 
 Delhi Police, however, denied any delay in letting the ambulance pass. Senior police officers said that the personnel deployed on security duty ensured that the ambulance waiting behind 50 cars found its way to the front.
 
 “An inspector ensured a clear passage for the ambulance. By then, the VVIP cavalcade had reached the spot, so we waited a few moments before allowing the ambulance to pass. The ambulance almost trailed the cavalcade to pass through,” said a senior police officer.
 
