LUCKNOW: Following arrest of three   from Gosaiganj in the city,   are keeping a close eye on online   activities during the ongoing   season. On May 12, STF had seized in Kanpur Rs 40.90 lakh in cash and five mobile phones from three bookies during the Gujarat Lions-Delhi Daredevils Indian Premier League (IPL) match. Meanwhile in Sector-93, Noida, STF busted a gang of seven for betting on IPL matches and recovered Rs 27 lakh on April 29.

 STF officials told TOI the main bookie Sharad Jain escaped to Nepal which has become the new haven of online betting after successive raids in the city in the last few years during successive IPL seasons.
 
 Districts active in betting are Kanpur and Noida, while in Lucknow the betting racket took off in 2003 before spreading to Kanpur, Noida, Agra, and Varanasi.
 
 ASP (STF) Rashid Khan said during IPL season online betting is a major form of cyber-crime. The areas where betting takes place in the city are Aminabad, Rakabganj, Gomtinagar Extension, Jankipuram where small amount of betting from Rs 100-10,000 per match via website ‘Betfair’ but larger amounts starting from Rs 50,000 to several lakhs of rupees is now being shifted to Nepal.
 
 “We have successive leads based on our electronic and ground intelligence and are working on them,” Khan told TOI, adding that Nepal has become a safe haven for betters because of logistic challenges. It is important to catch them red-handed otherwise there is no proof of their crime, while nabbing miscreants from Nepal is very tough. Last year, a betting gang was busted from city that had links to Goa.
 
 Cyber expert Prateek Dubey told TOI that bookies are based in Dubai and London and have local partners in other cities. Like in India, Rajasthan and Mumbai are currently the hub of betting. Apps are named after games and once it is downloaded and user enters details to create account bookies automatically come to know. During matches betting takes place and money is transacted in the form of credits and then transferred into bank of accounts of punters.
 
 
