NEW DELHI: Rani (name changed), the wife of an unemployed alcoholic man, was forced to turn to prostitution for survival. To secure the future of her school-going daughter, Rani filled up the Delhi government’s Laadli Yojana form to secure the financial benefit assured to the girl child from a financially vulnerable family when she turned 18.

 Her daughter was in Class VI when she filled up the form. Despite repeated efforts to find out the status of her application submitted to the government school her daughter was enrolled in, she could never get a response. Her daughter completed her schooling without getting the benefit. Today, Rani feels cheated by a system that denied her child her due.
 
 But Rani is not alone. There are many more women like her in slums and resettlement colonies who have been facing problems in getting access to schemes and certifications conceived by the governments at the Centre and state to enable  .
 
 The concerns of women caught in vulnerable circumstances find space in a report titled “Community-led Assessment on Social Inclusion’, which was jointly released by senior judicial officers of National Legal Service Authority (NALSA) and Delhi State Legal Services Authority (DSLSA) on Thursday.
 
 The report, based on a study conducted in northwest district by Centre for Advocacy and Research (CFAR) and community-based organisations such as Seva, Aarohan, AINSW and Savera, assesses the extent of awareness about various schemes and entitlements of socially marginal communities, including transgenders.
 
 One of the major factors responsible for the exclusion of the residents was their inability to furnish mandatory documents, like birth certificates, residence proof and Aadhaar number, to name a few.
 
 Women and transgenders in these resettlement colonies spoke about their difficulty in seeking access to schemes and certificates aimed at social inclusion. The reasons for not being able to undertake the journey to social inclusion included ignorance, social biases, lack of access to information and help in filling and tracking forms.
 
 The residents of such settlements in northwest district are now trying to find solutions through a community-based “single window system” for getting access to the  . The pilot centre has been made operational under the aegis of NALSA and DSLSA in Prem Nagar for seven settlements.
 
 Juhi Jain, senior programme manager at CFAR, emphasised that the study was done to bring the administration and the community to work together in addressing these challenges. “We are confident that DSLSA, in collaboration with all key departments and support of paralegal volunteers, will not only ensure inclusion but also restore the dignity and confidence of the community.”
 
