Price gouging by device manufacturers is under the scanner not only in India, but also in other South Asian countries, including Pakistan, Bangladesh and Sri Lanka. After bringing intraocular lenses under price control last month, Sri Lanka plans to target cardiac   and other surgical equipment.

 Pakistan announced it will fix cardiac stent prices within a month. In Bangladesh, cases of over pricing of stents have been widely reported.
 
 The Sri Lankan government had received complaints regarding intraocular lenses being imported from India for 6,000 Sri Lankan rupees and sold for 30,000 Sri Lankan rupees and also regarding the high price of stents (60,000 to 1 lakh Sri Lankan rupees), which was forcing patients to forego angioplasty . Enquiries revealed that as much as 400% markup was charged over the import price of some lenses despite the government not charging any taxes or import levy on these.
 
 Last month, the national medicine regulatory authority of Sri Lanka fixed the price of the most commonly uses lenses along with that of the injector used to implant the lens and announced that stents will be next. Following the lenses' price ceiling, Sri Lankan health minister Dr Rajitha Senaratne said that all lenses needed for cataract operations in government hospitals would be provided for free.
 
 After a major scam erupted in Pakistan, where it was found that substandard, unregistered and expired stents were used in patients through a nexus involving firms, distributors, lab technicians and doctors, a federal investigation agency enquiry revealed that cardiac stents were also being sold at very high prices.Pakistani media reported that stents were being imported from India for about Rs 25,000 and were being sold for Rs 3 lakh or more. On February 10, Pakistan's senate committee on health directed the health ministry and the Drug Regulatory Authority of Pakistan to formulate a pricing policy on stents within a month.
 
 After a scam of using expired stents from an American and a German company was unearthed in a major public hospital in Bangladesh in 2015, there has been greater focus on the whole practice of stenting. Local media reports said, private hospitals were overcharging patients on stents and there was a lot of unnecessary stenting. However, so far, beyond the   making it illegal to use expired stents, the government has not moved to curb the prices. 
 
