HYDERABAD: A recent spate of diphtheria deaths which exposed serious flaws in the existing immunisation programme adopted across Telangana, has compelled the authorities to widen its scope and include children up to the age of 10 years.

 The scheme is likely to be implemented from January. While the state government plans to procure the additional booster diphtheria vaccine, costing Rs 20 per dose, on its own, senior officials implementing the   in Telangana said the Union health ministry is prepared to shoulder the financial burden for the same.
 
 “This booster diphtheria vaccine called TD (tetanus and diphtheria) is being procured by the state government at its own expense,“ said Dr G Srinivas Rao, chief programme officer, National Health Mission, Telangana state, adding that under the school health programme, health workers are already reaching out to children in government schools in Hyderabad.
 
 The bacterial disease has claimed 18 lives in the state, including five in city so far this year. But what made the authorities sit up and take notice was the fact that all these deaths were in the 5-15 age group. All the children died while undergoing treatment at the staterun   respectively .
 
 All the victims were administered the diphtheria vaccine before they turned five. Of all the 734 `clinical diphtheria' cases treated at   till October this year, over 90% were below 10 years of age.
 
 Several doctors had ear lier suggested widening the scope of the vaccination programme to make it effective. “The deaths were due to `age shift', a phenomenon where diphtheria attacks children beyond the target age group of five years which was set for immunization,“ said Dr K Padmaja, district medical and health officer, Hyderabad. “Hence, we sent a proposal to the government to widen our immunisation drive immediately ,“ Dr Padmaja added.
 
 Under the existing National Health Mission's Universal Immunization Programme (UIP), free vac cines for diphtheria preven tion cover only children up to the age of five years.
 
 The government's recent move would mean extending the diphtheria booster dose, given to children at the age of five years, to include children up to the age of 10.
 
 “We recommend the booster dose protocol for diphtheria immunisation must be administered at three stages: The first dose at the age of 18 months, second at the age of five years and third at the age of 10 years,“ said Dr Anjul Dayal, consultant paediatric intensivist, Continental Hospital.
 
 Dr K Shankar, superintendent of Fever Hospital, said one more booster vaccine dose would help diphtheria prevention in children between five and 10 years. “Diphtheria is endemic (regularly found among particular people or in a certain area) in nature in the state in general and the city in particular. So, in such a scenario, it calls for another booster dose,“ he said.
 
