KOLKATA:   that was shut for a year-long overhaul in March 2015, is undergoing a more comprehensive makeover than originally planned with authorities deciding to renovate not only the projection system but also the   that houses it so that the 50-year-old facility can hit a century without another shutdown.

 The revamp project cost has also been hiked from Rs 29 crore to Rs 40 crore. It's likely to reopen this summer.
 
 Speaking to TOI, MP Birla Institute of Fundamental Research director (research & academic)   said the scope of work at the planetarium had been increased midway through the project after the management decided to undertake a complete overhaul of the 23-metre dome as well as the rest of building, both from the outside as well as the interiors.
 
 “When the planetarium was shut, the plan was to replace the opto-mechanical projector that was capable of depicting the night sky as seen through the naked eye to a hybrid projection system that consists of the latest version of the opto-mechanical one and nine very high-end digital   projectors especially built for the planetarium.With the advent of multi-media and TV channels that show very vivid, colourful photographs of the cosmos, the upgrade had become necessary to keep audiences in terested,“ Duari explained.
 
 Simultaneously , the seating within the planetarium was also changed from a flat floor to an amphitheatre like ambience with stepped seating. This has brought the capacity down from 670 per show to 630, but comfort has increased and ergonomics has improved many times. A complete overhaul of some of the utility services was also planned, including toilets, se minar room, lecture theatre and the astro corner where astronomical tidbits will be on sale.
 
 “The original renovation was to be completed by Durga Puja 2016 to catch the winter rush. But as work proceeded, it was decided to completely overhaul the building. The façade has been stripped off marble and is getting a completely new cladding of limestone imported from Portugal. The interior floors will also be of limestone. This will impart a heritage look and feel to the building that is an iconic structure in the Kolkata skyline. A German firm has strengthened the dome. It has been reinforced with carbon fibre and treated with specialized chemicals to last another 50 years,“ Duari said.
 
 The planetarium that originally sported a plaster façade had received the marble cladding in the 1990s.
 
 In addition, a new exhibition gallery with interactive elements is being set up.The garden will also be redesigned.
 
 Plans are afoot to complete the work within four months to open the rejuvenated planetarium by summer. With nearly two years spent in the upgrade, the planetarium has lost around 13-14 lakh viewers.
 
 “When the planetarium opens, it will be a new one offering a vastly superior experience to viewers. Even for those who don't step into the building, it will be an attraction.The digital clock that passersby checked will be back,“ Duari added.
 
