MUMBAI: Widespread rebellion has broken out in the   as the party leadership announced its first list of candidates for the upcoming   on Thursday.

 The Sena suffered a setback in its Parel bastion as local corporator Nana Ambole joined the BJP and another veteran Prabhakar Shinde from Mulund jumped ship.
 
 Matoshree was busy all through the day , pacifying the rebels, not to much avail, though. In many cases, both in the BJP as well as in the Sena, party legislators and MPs are trying a tad too hard for a nomination for their kith and kin, ignoring local workers' claim to seats.
 
 The sons of BJP leaders Raj Purohit and   have been offered party tickets in south Mumbai and Mulund, respectively , sparking a row in the local units.
 
 BJP minister Vidya Thakur's son too is in the BJP list for a ward in Malad, it is learnt. The BJP's `sons also rise' policy runs contrary to Prime Minister Narendra Modi's recent diktat to the party that close relatives of MPs and MLAs shouldn't be given a preference over honest and senior BJP workers, sources pointed out.
 
 Shinde, who was leader of the House in the BMC in early 2000, has been working in the Gavhanpada area of Mulund since the 1970s. Ambole's exit comes as a rude shock to the Sena as the two-time corporator represented the Parel ward, a Sena stronghold, in the BMC.
 
 That Matoshree couldn't resolve Ambole's dispute with local MLA Ajay Chowdhary over party nomination is a reflection on the party leadership's growing helpless ness in the face of dissension.Sena corporator Dinesh Panchal too has quit the party to join the BJP. Anita, Panchal's wife, will get nomination from the BJP, it is said.
 
 Senior Sena corporator Kishori Pednekar's candidature from ward no. 199 has triggered revolt in the local shakha. Similar is the situation in ward no. 178 (in Wadala) from where the Sena has fielded Ameya Ghole, much against the wishes of the local Shiv Sainiks, it is said.Ghole is said to be a close friend of Yuva Sena chief Aaditya Thackeray. As a mark of protest, Sainiks on Thursday shut down the Sena's Wadala 'shakha'. The announcement of Sena MLA Sada Sarvankar's son, Samadhan, as a candidate from ward no. 194 has upset Sainiks. The Sena wants mayor Snehal Ambekar to contest from Worli and she is reportedly unhappy with the seat. The Sena has gave a ticket to Priti, the wife of former MNS corporator Prakash Patankar, who joined the party a few days ago.The party's list of candidates features Trushna Vishwasrao, Mangesh Satamkar, Ashish Chemburkar, Meena Kambli, Sanjay Ghadi and Hemangi Worlikar.
 
