CHENNAI: When a duty doctor in the   alerted officials about a pregnant woman from their district travelling more than 80km to a private clinic in 2014, officials planned a decoy and chanced upon a gynaecologist in Neyveli town making a living out of sex-determination and sex-selective abortion. 

 The licence of Dr K Ramachandran was suspended and the case against him and his hospital, Mahalakshmi Nursing Home is under trial. And the officials mapping sex ratio say that when they stopped access to this clinic, it led to a dramatic increase in sex ratio at birth in Cuddalore and neighbouring districts such as Ariyalur and Villupuram. 
 
 The results are beginning to show. In Cuddalore, the ratio which was 848 in 2013-14, went up to 898 in 2016-17. Similarly in Villupuram, the ratio in the same period went up from 899 to 918. The best results were seen in Ariyalur, where the ratio went up by 89 points from 896 to 985. "This case showed how closing down a scan centre at one place can have an impact even in the neighbouring districts. It’s never easy to stop the demand for a boy child, so we wanted to stop illegal abortions," said S Gurunathan.
 
 But that was never easy. Numbers from neighbouring Perambalur showed how illegal centres thrived. Soon after the arrest of the doctor in 2014, the sex ratio at birth in the district went up from 953 to 962, but the following year most people in the district went in search of clinics in Attur, Salem and Namakkal, and the sex ratio dropped by 28 points to 934 in one year. 
 
 Deputy superintendent of police A Thomas Prabhakar, on special duty to crack down on violations, said the few arrests are only a tip of the iceberg. "The practice is rampant. We go on raids based on tip-offs from different sources, including doctors at government hospitals. But for every clinic we seal, we know there are more coming up," he said. 
 
 As a long-term plan to address the demand for a boy has to be addressed, the state is planning a series of campaigns that will empower  , improve literacy among them, create awareness and punish violators. State health minister C   announced that TN is in the process of making birth registries online. "Soon, we will be launching an app that will make registration mandatory for all pregnant women during their first trimester. The registration will be done by the hospitals, health workers or women themselves," he said. 
 
 The registration will help the state health department monitor illegal abortions besides reducing down maternal mortality and infant mortality, he said. In a recent review of the health department, officials formalised a plan to bring out the app by August.
 
