ALLAHABAD: In a major setback to  's ' ', many   in localities like Sohbatiyabagh, Bairahna and Mohtashimganj have turned into   and  , making locals hesitant to send their kids to these schools. 

 Because of the heavy rains, a portion of the school is filled with slush, exposing children to mosquito-borne diseases and restricting their movement in classes.
 
 The schools in these localities have lowest enrolment in the district and are major challenges to the state government's 'School Chalo Abhiyan', in which the government aims to ensure 100% enrolment in classes I to VI. 
 
 On visiting the premises, TOI found a herd of buffaloes grazing in the premises of Sohbatiyabag primary school. Locals said the school had become a permanent cattle shed and in the evening animals were tied to pillars in the school verandah. Most students have changed their schools and have moved to private schools that have mushroomed over the past few years. "We are always worried that our children might fall prey to diseases. So, I shifted my sons to a private school. They charge an exorbitant fee but the kids are safe," said Amit Kumar, a retail shop owner who lives in Sohbatiyabagh. 
 
 The condition of the government primary school for girls at Mohtashimganj is no better. Not a single student took admission in the school this year and the school has become a dumping ground of garbage. Eleven-year-old rag picker Kumar said, "The school has not opened since the past several months." 
 
 Another primary school that has been reeling under apathy is the Hewett Road Primary School, which has become a garbage dump and a makeshift cattle shed. The entrance was filled with slush and garbage and the TOI team had to struggle to enter the school. One could spot similar mismanagement at the government primary school in Bairahna, which has turned into a grazing ground for cattle.
 
 "Action will be taken against those responsible," said basic shiksha adhikari, Allahabad, Sanjay Kumar Kushwaha. He added, "We have requested Allahabad municipal corporation to clean the school at Hewett Road, but it is the people who are responsible for throwing garbage in the premises." 
 
 He said Sohbatiyabagh government school and that in Bairahna would also be free of garbage and cattle in coming days.
 
 
