Ambala: The dead body of a man in his mid-forties was recovered from railway quarters of Ambala Cantonment railway colony on Wednesday. The deceased is identified as Mohammad Madina Basha, a resident of the railway colony.

 “The man was a native of Visakhapatnam who had come to city 15 years ago and was employed at the railway yard,” a police official on the spot told TOI.
 
 The police informed that after getting the information, they reached the spot and called a doctor to thoroughly examine the body.
 
 “Initially, we assumed the cause of death to be some natural source. However, after examination when the doctors straightened the body a fountain of blood started oozing from the deceased’s mouth,” said SHO Parao Police Station, SI Bhushan Das. The police are now suspecting it to be murder.
 
 “We are investigating the case from all possible angles. The reason behind the death can only be confirmed after the post-mortem report,” Bhushan Das said.
 
 The family of the deceased has been informed and the doctors have kept the dead body in the mortuary to conduct a post-mortem. 
 
 Basha’s family was trying to contact him since last two days but did not get any response from him. Later, his mobile was also switched off .
 
 Newborn found abandoned in Ambala
 
 Ambala: A one-day old infant was found near the court complex in Ambala City in the wee hours on Wednesday. The newborn was spotted by Dalveer Singh, an advocate who was on his regular routine of a morning walk when he heard the wails of the baby.
 
 Dalveer while talking to TOI revealed, “As I was passing-by the court complex, I heard the voice of a crying baby. I followed the voice and found the abandoned the infant in bushes. I immediately informed the police and subsequently the child was admitted to the city’s civil hospital at 7:30 am.”
 
 The child’s condition was said to be normal but is under observation in Ambala city civil hospital.
 
 The child specialist Jaspal said, “During examination it was found that the baby was delivered prematurely and the weight of the baby was also less than normal as well. As the infant is underweight, the doctors have decided to keep the infant under observation for ten days.”
 
 A joint team of district Child Protection Department and Child Welfare Committee also visited the hospital to witness and supervise baby’s condition. The team stated that CCTV footage of the area was being skimmed to find out the parents of the child.
 
 
