GURGAON: More than a year has passed since the Haryana government made a commitment to protect   by officially demarcating it as a forest. Yet, according to an   reply from the state's principal chief conservator of forests on July 6, the government has no plan to do so.

 "No such proposal to declare any area of village   in district Faridabad as forest is under consideration as on date," states the reply to the RTI query filed by activist Asseem Takyar.
 
 Mangar Bani is critical to the ecosystem of the Aravalis and environmentalists have waged a long battle for the grove to be granted protected status. They received a shot in the arm last year when CM   approved a 500-metre no-construction zone around Mangar Bani. Yet, a notification that gives the grove a legal shield from any attempt at infringement has not been issued.
 
 There is, though, a parallel development that has a direct bearing on this -the definition of what a forest is in the context of the Aravalis. That decision is yet to be taken by the MoEFC (ministry of environment, forest and climate change) on which rests the responsibility of finalising the definition and submitting it to the  .
 
 According to the Haryana government, the total area under Mangar Bani is 653.45 acres and the area in the 500metre "no-construction belt"is 979.13 acres.
 
 Government representatives unanimously agreed Mangar Bani needed to be protected but did not have an answer on the way forward. State forest minister Rao Narbir Singh told TOI, "The state declared a 500m radius around Mangar Bani as a noconstruction zone. However, more needs to be done to protect Mangar Bani as a forest. "
 
 MD Sinha, conservator of forest, Gurgaon circle, said, "Mangar bani definitely needs to be declared a protected forest. Some three years ago, we had submitted a proposal to notify Mangar Bani under Section 4&5 of Punjab Land Preservation Act, under which vast tracts of Aravalis are notified. However, it is pending with the authorities. "
 
