KOCHI: Questioning police's bid to arrest 'Pulsar' Suni from a courtroom, lawyers stated that such an arrest cannot be allowed without the court's permission. Legal experts differ on the point, with some stating that police was perfectly justified while some others pointing out that such action even amounted to contempt of court.

 Justice K S Radhakrishnan, a former judge of the  , said police should have obtained the court's permission before making such an arrest. “Police should have informed the judge or the registrar as the arrest was from istrar as the arrest was from a courtroom. Jurisdiction of the court vests on the judge.Even though the judge is said to be not in the seat, permission should have been obtained,“ he said.
 
 Former director general of prosecution T Asaf Ali seconds this opinion and said such a move showed police's inability to arrest the accused otherwise. “ A person entering the court means he is under the dominion of the court. It is especially so in a magistrate court as the magistrate has the power to remand him,“ he stated.
 
 Police's action in fact violated provisions of   (CrPC), says former additional advocate general K A Jaleel. CrPC stipulates that an arrest should be made as per the procedure laid down in it. Formal sanction of the person in charge of the building was required for conducting a search at the courtroom and arresting a person, he stated. “Police didn't just make an arrest. They entered the courtroom, searched for the accused, and made the arrest. According to CrPC, sanction was to be obtained prior to making such a search,“ the former additional AG stated.
 
 However, justice K Sukumaran, a former judge of the   and Bombay high court, found no fault with the police in arresting the accused from a courtroom.“He is to be arrested and there is a complaint against him. Unless there is something which prevents that execution of duty, police is free to do it,“ he said.
 
 Justice Sukumaran also pointed out that the place of arrest cannot be called a courtroom as the court was not in session. “A court is in session when the court is in session when the judge is there, when the lawyers are there. Otherwise it's a mere building. If it is 10am and the lawyers are there, it is a courtroom. At 8am, it cannot be called a courtroom. If an accused is hiding there, police can apprehend him. If the police does not act, it will be a default on their sacred function,“ he stated.
 
 Whether police required the court's permission for making the arrest may be a bone of contention but legal experts agree that it doesn't make the arrest illegal.
 
 “Not informing the court about the arrest doesn't make the arrest illegal. It is only a procedural violation,“ said justice Radhakrishnan. Asaf Ali concurs that the arrest can't be termed illegal but said it could be considered as an act in contempt of court. “He went there for surrendering. Taking him away from there and arresting him in fact amounts to contempt of court,“ Asaf Ali said.
 
