Undocumented. The dead ed word in US, after   became the President, has set off worry, and some fun, among Indians at home and abroad.

 As they say, the consensus after the election is that 100% of Americans think 50% of Americans have lost their minds.
 
 “America for Americans first”, Trump's war cry, has at least three lakh Indians losing their sleep over fears of being shown out of the land of opportunity .
 
 And that had ushered in some dark humour about DT's dire warnings among Indians and netizens.
 
 A saying in Punjab, “Khaadha peeta lahe da baaki Ahmad Shahe da” (what belongs to you is whatever you have eaten and drunk, the rest is of Ahmad Shah), which highlighted the apprehensions, times and turbulences of  's plundering raids from Afghanistan in India, especially the territory of undivided Punjab. This has now has changed to “khaadha peeta lahe da, baaki Trump Shahe da,” by US-based Narinder Singh Akali.
 
 “Punjab ton gur mangvauna si, lagda nahin aunda Trump kar ke,“ (I wanted to get some jaggery from Punjab but now it does not seem possible because of Trump,“ he posted another satirical comment to convey that now it appears impossible that Punjabis would be keen to land in US any more.
 
 Narinder has also been posting messages to make people aware about the coming stringent measures.
 
 “Sache Patshah 35 Lakhiaan ‘chon koi naa kaabu aawe, tabbar ne jinde mar jaana” ( O God I pray that none of those who paid Rs 35 lakhs to agents to reach US should get caught or their families would be like living dead), posted California-based Sandeep Chahal, not only highlighting the high cost of reaching US through “do number” (illegal routes) but also the predicament of their families back home, several of whom raise loans to help their wards fly out.
 
 “Amrika aaun wale (via Mexico) zara dhiaan naal, paise naa fasaa lio bharaavo” (those who want to come to America (through Mexico) should be careful. Brothers, don't get your money stuck) posted Jodhbir Singh, a popular Punjabi netizen in US.
 
 Canada-based Gurpreet Singh Sahota posted a message in Punjabi about the crackdown by the Trump government on undocumented immigrants.
 
 Anxious time, thanks to Trump.“Even as several families would not have met their sons for quite a few years but the rural folk back home are worried that they would deported and may again land in economic uncertainty,” said Sukhdev Singh, a retired bank official in village Bhatnoooran Kalan, near Bholath, a belt known for being home to scores of  .
 
 As Tarlok Singh of village Talwara near Bholath, said: “Scare is palpable among people here since deportation talk began in the US.”
 
