PATNA: Even as the last date for online admission of students to the postgraduation courses of Patna University ( ) ended on Monday, hardly a few selected candidates could pay their fees online owing to some procedural wrangles. Different PG departments have, however, completed the process of counselling for admission on merit.

 Several PG departments on Monday started admitting students against vacant seats on first-come-first-served basis. PU had decided this year to allow direct admission in such PG departments where the number of applications received is less than the sanctioned seats. Most departments of humanities, including Persian, Maithili, Arabic and Bengali fail to get the desired number of applicants. Direct admission in such departments would be completed by July 31.
 
 Meanwhile, the deadline for admission to the undergraduate courses in different PU colleges on the basis of common entrance test held is likely to end on Tuesday. But, as the things stand today, seats in most colleges are likely to remain vacant this year. Only 440 students could be admitted against 600 seats in Patna College till date. The college has announced the third cut-off list with only a day left for admissions, said college admission in-charge Randhir Kumar Singh.
 
 Similarly, as many as 161 seats out of 600 remained vacant in Patna Science College, said principal S K Srivastava. The principals of both Patna College and Patna Science College have requested the PU authorities to extend the last date of admission at least by a week so that the vacant seats may be filled. 
 
 Informed sources said PU is also contemplating to extend the last date of admission to both UG and PG courses till July 31, keeping in view the genuine difficulties faced by the students.
 
 The PG departments are supposed to hold induction meet for newly admitted students on Tuesday and to start their classes from Thursday. The classes of new undergraduate students in different colleges are likely to start on Friday. 
 
 
