JAIPUR: Is it 'Jal Swavlamban' to release 200 million cubic feet (mcft) of water from a dam for a religious ceremony to be held 34km downstream, when temporary ponds fed with water from 4-5 tankers can do the job? 

 While it's a no-brainer for anyone who remotely understands the state's water deficit, the state government believes otherwise.
 
 The move, expected to reduce water in   by nearly half its capacity, is to satisfy a 20-minute religious ceremony at the Mahaveerji fair. The decision also gives a true picture of the tall claims made by the state government on measures taken to conserve water.
 
 The water will be released on Thursday for the ' ' ceremony in Gambhir river in Karauli. The ritual is an annual affair and successive state governments have allowed the release of water for the ceremony since 2009.
 
 In 2010, the dam released 690 mcft, which is the highest till date, and in 2011, 64.8 mcft, the lowest, for the ritual. The total amount water released for the ceremony since 2009 is 2,269.8 mcft.
 
 In a letter to chief minister   In 2016, Rohini Kumari, a former legislator from the ruling party, suggested constructing temporary ponds for the ceremony. "There is no way you can reuse the water released due to high temperature at this time of the year. A lot of water is lost through evaporation as it flows through the dried river bed," the letter pointed out. The Mahaveerji festival is held in honour of 24th Jain Tirthankar Mahavir each year in the month of March or April. This year, it falls on the April 9. The fair held in   situated 29km from Karauli and it takes the water 5-7 days to reach   for a mere 20 minute ceremony. All along the way the officials drive along the course of water till it reached its destination.
 
 "'Rath Yatra' is the exclusive feature of Mahavirji fair for which Gujjars travel along with the 'Rath' downstream and the 'Meenas' bring it back. Besides, from 1901, during the British rule, the sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) started sitting in the 'Rath', a tradition that continues even now. Ironically, the ceremony makes a government official a witness to the misuse of water.
 
