HYDERABAD: Making it clear that there cannot be any oral orders in the running of a government, Justice A   of the   has set aside a tender cancellation decision of the  's medical and health department and held that the department was wrong in cancelling the supply contract of   despite selecting a bidder from a tender process.The judge slapped costs of `10,000 on the special commissioner of health and family welfare and directed him to pay it to the aggrieved contractor who came to the court following the cancellation of the contract he so painstakingly won in the long-drawn tender process. He also asked the petitioner to seek damages from the state for this faux paus.

 The state had called for sealed tenders from eligible service providers for supply of tele ultra sonography services for five years in February 2016. Ms NRI Academy of Sciences, Guntur, was selected in the tender process and the authorities had even given the academy the letter of intent issued by the state on March 14, 2016. But surprisingly, the same was cancelled within just two days.The Academy then knocked HC doors challenging the state's decision.
 
 When the judge questioned the AP counsel and their com missioner for health and family welfare, they gave reasons that were not recorded anywhere. They said that they cancelled the contract following oral orders from the department's principal secretary. In ultra sonography, mere sending of images is enough for ascertaining the status of a person's he alth and since the tendered model aims at sending videos, we changed it to image model for cutting costs, the commissioner explained.
 
 But when asked to provide record for the same, he said there was no record at all as everything was done after getting oral instructions.The court came to the conclusion that the commissioner did all this without informing the principal secretary and slapped costs on him. However since considerable time had lapsed in the meantime, the judge left it open to the state to call for fresh bids in tune with the new policy.
 
