BENGALURU: The two-day   (TU) will commence on Saturday at St Joseph's Boys' High School. The event is specially designed to help students explore different career options after pre-university.

 TOI speaks to two of the speakers,   and  , about role models, advice they'd like to give the youth and the importance of bringing people from different backgrounds to a common platform.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 On role models: Mentors play a bigger role than role models. Role models may influence you with trends and goals. A mentor will help you build a foundation for the launch pad; they aren't the destination, they're travel agents.
 
 Advice: I read this quote many years ago: `You get what you work for, not what you wish for'. Patience, persistence, perseverance are three important words. Focus on learning, and not on earning. Know your weaknesses. There is no absolute route to succeed. Build relationships, don't be impulsive, don't be shy to ask, have fun.
 
 Views on the event: It's an excellent initiative, great way to bridge the future with the present. There's abundant information available on the internet. Unfortunately, we don't spend enough time to pick the skills we need in the real world. This should help fix that in a tiny manner.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 On role models: Role models can inspire you to work towards your passion, but you shouldn't lose focus from yourself and just become a follower. If someone inspires you, it should be about their work and not who they are as people.
 
 Advice: My humble advice to all young people is to first understand the importance of hard work.Most people working with me are young and it's rare to see a consistent drive.Fatigue and confusion set in early while they pursue their first job and it almost seems that they want things to happen fast. We are all so used to Google answers on our fingertips that working hard to find a solution is beyond us now. A quote on my school notice board has always been with me that Success comes before work only in a dictionary.
 
 Views on the event: It is a fabulous initiative. Students know a lot about what is going on in the world today via social media. What I feel they can learn is to deal with situations and problems in the real world, professionally and personally and Times UniverCity is a wonderful platform for the same.
 
