After six months of renovation, the   reopened recently with a new lease of life. Overlooking the Futala Lake, the lush green public garden is now equipped with a   park, a cycling track and a jogger’s lane with a renovated cafeteria serving fruit salads and fresh juices. With youngsters constantly in search for recreational places to jog, exercise and relax in the city, this garden is a great breather for them. Read on as we give you the lowdown on this fitness saga…

 
 
 The garden’s fitness park has become a new attraction for youngsters wherein they can exercise for hours without any disturbance. Soham Ramteke one of the regulars at the garden says, “Every morning, I come here with my friends to jog and exercise and it is good to see a public garden where the authorities have provided the visitors with outdoor fitness equipment. There are dumbbells, skipping ropes and other fitness equipment available here. Apart from the fitness park for the people, there is a cafeteria wherein freshly pressed green juices are served for fitness freaks.”
 
 
 
 As the clock strikes 6am, youngsters flock to Satpuda Garden to practice yoga. Sneha Khare, who lives near Hindustan Colony is one of them. She says, “My friends and I visit here every morning to practice yoga at the newly constructed yoga zone, overlooking the Futala Lake. This newly renovated garden has become my new escape every day as it is very close to my locality. After doing some asanas here, we take a walk in the blissful and serene garden. It is a haven for many youngsters like me who enjoy outdoor activities and crave for fresh air early morning.”
 
 
 
 With a newly constructed cycle track, this botanical garden has become the hot favourite cycling destination for city biking enthusiasts. For Krishna Rao, his early morning bike ride has become even more exciting. He says, “Nothing like biking on the cycle tracks surrounded by serenity and lush green garden. The reason why I like biking here is that this place has no interference of traffic and I can bike freely on the wide and long stretch cycle track at the park. Quite a few cycling enthusiasts come here every morning and evening for their biking routine. The most ideal time for riding bike is early morning and just before
 the sunset.”
 
