SHILLONG: Union Textile Minister   on Sunday announced infusion of Rs 820 crore in   in the   region to boost employment opportunities to nearly four lakh families of which 70 per cent are women.

 "The government of India is in a position to support sericulture in the region by infusion of Rs 820 crore," Irani said at the inauguration of first Investors Summit exclusively for North Eastern Region (NER) here.
 
 "Our estimate is that close to 3,95,000 families of which 70 per cent are women will benefit from the opportunities," she said.
 
 She said that her ministry has sanctioned Rs 1,040 crore for the region for promotion schemes for handloom, handicrafts, sericulture, apparel and garmenting.
 
 Irani also announced the employment opportunities for handicrafts as master craftsperson in NIFTs.
 
 "Within next academic session, I will ensure that the master craftspersons of the NE region in handloom sector help us teach the children studying at NIFTs across the country and will be paying them respects that they truly deserves," the minister said.
 
 She complimented Chief Minister   who had earlier said that these craftsmen are highly skilled people.
 
 Urging investors to seriously consider investing in the region in handloom, handicrafts and sericulture, Irani said the Centre has invested in infrastructural projects worth Rs 52,000 crore to help investment opportunities as part of the Act East policy.
 
 Highlighting the government's effort to help the industry and those who are dependent of it, she said a mobile app and a helpline number were launched recently.
 
 "The mobile app was launched in December ensuring that weavers can see the quota and understand their rights and track movement of yarns allotted," she said.
 
 The helpline number, launched on January 4, works from 10 am - 6 pm to help handloom weavers for services and queries.
 
 She said over 2,500 queries made by weavers across the country were solved till date.
 
 Later, about 10 MoUs were signed between different central and state agencies with the investors and promoters and an equal number is on the pipeline. 
 
