GURUGRAM: The forest department has spotted leopards thrice in the last one month near the city. It calls for an urgent need to protect the Aravali hills, which are under continuous threat from the builder mafia.

 Big cats have been sighted in camera traps installed by the department in Gurugram and Faridabad. While a male leopard was seen on January 22 near Mangar, a female leopard was seen the same day near Bandhwari. Another sighting was reported from the Gurgaon-Faridabad road. The female leopard spotted in Bandhwari is suspected to be pregnant.
 
 “Two to three sightings of leopard near the city make it evident that rich wildlife exists in the  . Therefore, conservation of biodiversity and wildlife becomes important. There is a need to have a proper   plan. We’re already training our staff in wildlife management and rescue operations,” M D Sinha, conservator of forest (Gurgaon circle) told TOI.
 
 Sinha called for the protection of the Aravali range to conserve the area’s rich wildlife. “Not just   on camera traps, the incidents of leopards spotted in villages, and unfortunately, even the deaths of a few big cats in road accidents, call for bringing down human interference in the area, and making people aware of the need to protect Aravalis,” he said. In October 2016, the department installed 15 camera traps in Gurgaon and Faridabad areas to monitor the movement of leopards. They were set up in forest areas of Bandhwari, Mangar, Ghata, Wazirabad, Chakkarpur and Haidarpur Viran. 
 
 Shyam Sunder, district forest officer (wildlife) said, “The increased sightings of leopards in the Aravalis is definitely a good sign. Existence of the top predator in the food chain plays a significant role in maintaining a healthy balance of species in the forest. However, existence of wildlife in the area also calls for its conservation, and of sensitising people to prevent animal-human conflict.”
 
 Activists raised the need to call the entire Aravali range as a ‘no construction zone’, saying no ‘non-forest activities’ should be allowed in the area. “The entire Aravali range has extremely rich biodiversity and wildlife. Besides leopards, the area has many animals including striped hyena, Indian golden jackal, ruddy mongoose, small Indian civet and neelgai. Authorities should immediately declare the entire Aravali range as a no construction zone, and non-forest activity should not be allowed in the range,” said Amina Shervani, a city-based environmentalist.
 
 Over 5,000 hectares along the 30-km-long belt ranging from Bandhwari to Damdama is forest area, which serves as an important wildlife corridor between Asola Bhatti Wildlife Sanctuary in Delhi and   in Rajasthan.
 
 
