NEW DELHI: Last month, B   and   made history by becoming the first Indian badminton pair to reach the final of a Superseries when they faced each other in the summit clash of the Singapore Open. It was a win-win situation for Indian badminton, but for 24-year-old Sai this was a huge occasion, for he had never in his career gone past the quarter-final stage of a Superseries or won a Grand Prix Gold tournament. 

 Beating Srikanth, quarter-finalist at the 2016 Rio Olympics, 17-21, 21-17, 21-12 was a career-defining moment for Sai as he became only the second Indian after   to win the Singapore Open. For the more experienced Srikanth - recipient of the Times of India Sports Award for Badminton Player of the Year [People's Choice] - reaching the final was unexpected, in his own words, for he had struggled with fitness and only returned to international competition in March. 
 
 Runner-up at this year's Syed Modi Grand Prix, Sai was ranked 30 in the BWF men's singles ratings heading into the Singapore Open. Sufficed to say, he flew under the radar entering the tournament but as he progressed, his confidence grew. He began with a 64-minute victory over Denmark's Emil Holst 17-21, 21-7, 21-19 and then beat World No 23 Qiao Bin 21-15, 21-23, 21-16 to enter the quarters. There, he beat the eighth seed Tanongsak Saensomboonsuk 15-21, 21-14, 21-19 to enter the semi-finals, where Korea's   was defeated in straight sets 21-6, 21-8. 
 
 "I have been playing national level tournaments and internationally, and beaten many players, but never had I won a big tournament like a Super Series," Sai tells 
  in a candid interview, seated next to Srikanth on a sofa inside a New Delhi hotel during the first Badminton Association of India conclave. 
 
 "Before the Singapore Open, I wasn't thinking that this was one I could win. I was just looking at performing well, so took it round by round. In the quarter-finals, all eight players have a chance and you have to take that chance. When I won my quarter-final, my confidence grew but it was only when I won the semi-final did I believe the tournament was open because all the seeded players had lost."
 
 As he turned his attention towards the second men's singles semi-final, Sai did not have too many nerves because he knew who he would face in the summit clash. "My semi-final was the first one, and I knew that Srikanth would beat his opponent and meet me in the final. But I felt that I was 50-50 in my semi-finals, so that meant I had to be a lot better to play him. Once he won, I knew it was going to be a very tough final," he says. 
 
 For Srikanth, 26th in the world rankings, this was a very important tournament to qualify for the World Badminton Championships. He had dropped in the rankings, falling behind Jayaram and  , and forced to skip tournaments as he attempted to get back to peak fitness, including the Malaysia Open, left him in a "desperate position" to perform in Singapore. 
 
 "You need to have a base fitness before you start playing tournaments. I was lacking that before I started playing international tournaments in March," he says. "Until the Olympics I had about 70-75% of base fitness throughout the year, and I was able to train for two weeks before a tournament to get back to 90-95% base fitness. But over the past six-odd months I was at about 15-20% base fitness, so I had to really push myself to get to 75-80%. 
 
 "I skipped too many tournaments last year because of my injury, so I didn't get as much time to train as I would have liked, so that meant I had to skip the Malaysia Open to train further. That turned out to be a good idea, which goes to show how important training is. Because I didn't train so much in the last five months, I was forced to skip tournaments to train. It was satisfying to play well in Singapore, though the end result could have been a lot better. That said, going into the tournament I didn't believe that I would be in the final. A quarter-final would do, was the way I looked at it. Doing well in Singapore gave me a lot of confidence."
 
 Though he had a 4-1 record against the more experienced Srikanth heading final, for Sai it was not even a second thought as he faced up against his good friend in the first instance of two unseeded players reaching the final of any Singapore Open final.
 
 "People spoke about head-to-head records and experience versus less experience all that, but I don't think that matters because its all about the day and the time. I know Srikanth and what he's capable of, and we have played together a lot," he says. "We practice every day, we know each other's game so its very tough to play against a player who knows so much about you. My only aim was to win. If you keep all that in mind, what people say and what each person's experiences levels are, you can't win the match."
 
 Friends off the court - they train at the SAI Gopichand National Badminton Academy in Hyderabad - the two badminton players were ecstatic to be part of history: this was the first time that two Indians were meeting in a Super Series final. 
 
 "Two Indians in the final was historic, and I think it was only the fourth time that had happened. I was so happy to be part of that history. You can say it was a win-win situation for India," says a beaming Sai. 
 
 "It was fantastic," adds Srikanth. "Not many countries have done that before, so Sai and I were very happy. All the coaches and support staff were thrilled for us too. It was also the first time that no coach was there when an Indian was playing a final, but still it was a dream for our coach, Gopi sir."
 
 Srikanth and Sai are both disciples of former All-England Open winner turned national badminton coach  , undoubtedly the driving force behind pushing Indian badminton to the next level. Last month, five students of the SAI Gopichand National Badminton Academy in Hyderabad won medals at the International Junior Grand Prix, which raises hopes of this being the golden age of Indian badminton. Like Rio Olympics silver medalist PV Sindhu, who last week spoke to 
 Sports on this 
 , both Srikanth and Sai believe that the next crop of players will be special. 
 
 "If you talk about Prakash [Padukone] sir's career, he was the only Indian at that time to do so well. If you talk about Gopi sir's career, he too was the only Indian. But now, have you so many players - we have eight players from India in the top 50 at the moment and 14 in the top 100. Then there are juniors who are doing really well, who have become junior World No 1," says Srikanth. "We have women's singles players who are doing great, we have doubles players who are have started winning tournaments and playing consistently. Its really a good beginning for Indian badminton, which I think will continue and the juniors will take responsibilities from the seniors and carry forward this momentum."
 
 Sai concurs."There are many kids playing in our academy, who have a great opportunity to see all the top players of the country from close range, so they can learn so much. When we were younger we weren't used to seeing our country's top players together, so for these young kids it is a very good time. Its a very good advantage for the juniors who are coming up the ranks," he says.
 
