CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court has asked the Haryana sports and youth affairs department to explain if preference in granting cash award to sportspersons could be given on the basis of caste or class. 

 Justice Daya Chaudhary of the HC sought an explanation while hearing an case in which Rs 21 lakh was given to mountaineer   for scaling   by the state government, while others with similar feats had been denied such an amount.
 
 Defending Rs 21 lakh to Sodha, the sports department had taken the stand that the amount was released to her because she belonged to the “scheduled caste” and “economically weaker section”. “File an affidavit explaining how the case of the petitioners, is different from case of Mamta Sodha. It should also be explained as to why without having any policy, whether preference can be given only on the basis of caste/class,” Justice Chaudhary directed after hearing state’s reply.
 
 The matter is pending before the HC in the wake of a contempt petition filed by two mountaineers Jasbir Singh and Raju Sindhu. Petitioners, who had scaled the world’s highest peak, had approached the court to initiate contempt proceedings against the senior officers of the sports, police and home departments for not giving them jobs and cash awards as per the directions given by HC on April 28, 2016.
 
 In her detailed order, released on Thursday, Justice Chaudhary also directed the additional chief secretary (sports and youth affairs) K K Khandelwal and director of the sports department   to appear in person before the HC on Friday to explain why they had filed a false affidavit before the court.
 
 Both officers had told the court that an appeal had been filed against the April 28, 2016, order. “Wrong facts have been mentioned in the affidavit, which are not expected from such a senior officer of the rank of additional chief secretary. Similar affidavit has been filed Jagdeep Singh, IAS, director, department of sports and youth affairs, Haryana, Panchkula. They are directed to be present in the court to explain by way of an affidavit as to why wrong facts have been mentioned in the affidavit,” observed the court while summoning both the officers.
 
 On March 17, the state government had told the HC that both the petitioners had been appointed as sub-inspectors in Haryana police. They were, however, denied cash award.
 
 Regarding denial of cash award, counsel for the petitioners   has been arguing government had not given them any money while Mamta, who had also scaled the Everest, was given Rs 21 lakh by the state government besides a job of the deputy superintendent of police (DSP).
 
 Both petitioners had scaled Mount Everest in 2011, and had requested the Haryana government to give them jobs along with cash award in parity with other mountaineers.
 
