GHAZIABAD: A Class XI student of   in  ,  , was shot at by his classmate on the school premises. The boy suffered a bullet injury on his back and was rushed to hospital, where his condition was said to be stable.

 According to the school principal, the shooting took place during lunch break when the victim was with a friend.
 
 TOI is withholding the names of the victim and the accused as they are minors.
 
 “Three students of the same class approached the victim who was having lunch with his friend and started assaulting him with their fists and belts,” a school staffer said. “Soon after that one of the boys took out a gun and fired a shot in which he was hit on his back when the bullet ricocheted after hitting the wall,” the staffer said.
 
 “Hearing the gunshot, some of the school’s teachers rushed to the spot and nabbed the boy who had opened fire while the other two ran away,” the staffer said. When asked how a student had managed to bring a gun to the school, the staffer, who did not wish to be named, did not have an answer.
 
 Meanwhile in the police complaint, Hitesh’s father has named three students of the school. “There were three students who were involved in the attack on my son. While the prime accused has been arrested, the other two accused are on the run,” the father said.
 
 The police said that the main accused boy has been arrested while they were on a lookout for the other two. “The accused are minor but we have filed an FIR against the main accused and booked him under sections 307/34 of IPC and, in the meantime, we are trying to find out as to where the accused managed to get a gun from,” said Hemant Rai, SHO, Govindpuram police station.
 
 When asked what could be the reason behind the shooting, Rai said, “We are questioning the boy further but during the initial interogation he confessed that he shot him because the other day the victim had beaten up his younger brother who is a student of Class IX in the same school.” 
 
 The Govidnpuram branch of Dehradun Public School is a CBSE-affiliated school.
 
 
