Ahmedabad: The weatherman has warned that heatwave conditions are likely to prevail in some pockets of the state for the next two days.

 It is still March but, on Sunday, the maximum temperature in eight towns of the state crossed 40 degree centigrade. The indications are that summer this year is going to be quite harsh. 
 
 
 The meteorological centre at Ahmedabad of India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued a warning that for two days heatwave conditions will prevail in some areas of Gujarat region, Saurashtra and Kutch. 
 
 
 The maximum and the minimum temperatures are likely to remain markedly above normal over the entire state.
 
 On Sunday, Deesa town in Banaskantha district was the hottest place in the state, registering a maximum temperature of 42 degree Celsius on Sunday.
 
 
 Ahmedabad, too, was simmering with the day temperature on Sunday touching 41.3 degree Celsius. (This is 4.6 degrees above the normal.) The minimum temperature in the city was 20.6 degree Celsius, which is also 0.6 degree above normal. The humidity level fluctuated between 20% and 45% on Sunday.
 
 Incidentally, for the last two years, the city’s maximum temperature has crossed 40 degree Celsius on March 25 or 26.Hot winds swept the city all though the day and low intensity dust whirlwinds could be witnessed in many parts of Ahmedabad. People preferred to stay indoors becausing of the scorching sun.
 
 Roadside squatters and slum-dwellers too struggled in the hot   and took shelter under plastic sheds to avoid the heat. 
 
 Doctros have advised that people should avoid going out in the heat and consume fluids like lemonade or fruit juices, besides water. They should wear full-sleeved clothes, use an umbrella, or wear a cap. People should also avoid strenuous exercises in such conditions. 0Children, pregnant women and the elderly should be especially cautious. Doctors said applying ice packs on the neck and other parts of the body, and remaining in cool and sheltered places are some measures that can be taken to stay safe.
 
 
