Humre paon ma darad hoyat ra hai … tumka chhuyin liya, ab hamar darad neek hoyi ga …(My legs are aching but now that I have touched your feet, I do not feel the pain anymore …), said a lady, in her sixties, as touched the feet of a tall man, almost six-feet, sitting in the front seat of his white XUV.

 As his cavalcade moved on,  , or Raja bhaiyya as he is popularly known, folded his hands for a namaste. A voice wafted across the dusty road and the bright yellow mustard fields on both sides – “Äapke apne pratyashi, aapke pyare Raja Bhaiyya aap ke beech aa rahe hain (Your very own Raja Bhaiyya is coming to meet you)” from a loudspeaker atop another SUV in the motorcade piloting the Independent candidate from Kunda assembly constituency of Pratapgarh district.
 
 On Monday, just one day before campaigning comes to an end for the fourth phase of the Uttar Pradesh elections, Raghuraj Pratap left the Bhadri Estate in Beti village early with his fleet of cars, snaking its way on the dusty road through the sun-soaked fields.
 
 He has won five consecutive Assembly elections from Kunda since he got into electoral politics in 1993 and his victory margin has only spiraled every time. And, the answer to why he could do so is there for all to see.
 
 As his fleet drove by, people along the road stopped their work and bent in reverence with folded hands. The cycle repair shop-owner stood up, leaving his work. An old man riding his bicycle, stops it and gets down to bow in reverence. He asked his car to be stopped on the road side where men and women stood in a huddle.
 
 As soon as the car pulled up to a halt, men pushed their hands in through the window, touching his feet. The crowd grew and he had to request them to step back so he could open the door.
 
 A loud roar of “Raja bhaiyya ki jai …” rent the air as he stepped out. Men and women fell on his feet. There were young boys and girls, who sought his blessing, an old man had an application in hand, another wanted some work done while most cheered him, holding large cardboard cutouts of a saw – his election symbol -- wishing him success as he readied for the polls on Thursday. The “Raja of Kunda” folded his hands, raised his arms and accepted their greetings.
 
 He then drove off to the neighbouring constituency Babuganj, where another Independent candidate is fighting with his support.
 
 In the badlands of eastern Uttar Pradesh, Raja Bhaiyya is also considered a “bahubali” dominating the socio-political landscape, though he has not faced any charge in the recent past and has been acquitted in the earlier ones.
 
 Raghuraj Pratap’s writ runs large in Pratapgarh, where people have been voting him for the last 25 years and revering him as their icon.
 
 Every morning, people would throng his palace to seek justice and he would ensure an informal spot justice, people seeking his blessings in even settling petty disputes around land or property. He would call the warring parties and deliver justice that can hardly be challenged.
 
 “If there is a case of teasing, people of his constituency prefer to complain to him and he who would call the wayward boy, reprimand him. Police is our second choice in such situations,” said Radhe Mishra of Kunda Bazaar, adding that he organises marriages of poor girls and performs “kanya daan” himself.
 
 Is he the Robinhood of Kunda or a good Samaritan? “They are like my father, mother, daughters and sons.
 
 “It is said in Kunda that you would punish an electricity department employee by hanging him upside down if there was power outage in your constituency,” said TOI. The answer comes in an instant: “It’s of course a myth. And that is not needed. A phone call from me is enough to set things right.”
 
 He would ask his car to be stopped every other minute, whenever he found a gathering, waiting for a glimpse of the man whose victory margin has risen from 66,000 to 73,000, 72,000, 82,000 to 88,000 in the last election, turning the elections into a no contest irrespective of the opposition.
 
 Raghuraj’s aura has remained undiminished despite then UP chief minister Kalyan Singh cracking down on him and describing him as “Kunda ka goonda” and then Mayawati slapping POTA on him.
 
 But, why has he never ventured out of the state to test political waters in the Delhi?
 
 He was offered a seat in the 2004 Lok Sabha elections by the then Samajwadi party chief Mulayam Singh Yadav but he declined and preferred to stay as an Independent MLA.
 
 Raghuraj Pratap is not only a heavyweight to the extent of being invincible in Kunda by now for the last 25 years, but in Lucknow too he plays an important role in the formation of the government. It was Raja Bhaiyya who played a key role in rescuing then Kalyan Singh government in 1997 after BSP had withdrawn support from him. He engineered defections in the BSP and Congress to marshal support of required MLAs.
 
 When Mayawati became chief minister in 2002, she slapped POTA on him and threw him behind bars for over one-and-a-half year but was later acquitted. It was during his jail term that he had twins but saw them only after 11 months after he was out of bail.
 
