CHANDIGARH:The district consumer disputes redressal forum has directed two mobile service providers to pay Rs 5,000 each for abruptly   and failing to settle grievances of a  

 According to complainant  , he had got a mobile number of Reliance Communications Limited on August 18, 2014, and paid Rs 300 towards its security deposit. He shifted to Idea Cellular Limited Network on May 29, 2016, due to network-related problems.
 
 Though he paid the last bill for the period (May 1 to May 5, 2016) of Rs 368 to Reliance on July 4, 2016, the company did not refund the security amount even after constant follow-ups and request, he told the court.
 
 In the meantime, Idea also raised a bill of Rs 350 against the mobile number and Avtar Singh paid the amount. “Surprisingly , Idea disconnected the mobile connection on July 16, 2016,“ Singh stated.
 
 He approached Idea offi cials, but they put the ball in the court of Reliance, citing pending dues as reason. “Reliance feigned ignorance regarding the whole episode and directed me to approach Idea,“ the complainant stated.
 
 The complainant moved the consumer forum, alleging deficiency in service and   practice.
 
 In its reply, Reliance stated, “No request was ever made by Singh for the refund of the security deposit. The security refund of Singh is under process and shall be refunded to him in due course.“ It was been further urged that they had no role in the disconnection of the services, as alleged.
 
 Idea in its reply stated that the number was disconnected on account of disconnection request received due to nonpayment of an amount of Rs 368.39 (to Reliance). “Upon receiving the request, the complainant was duly informed of the same by way of SMS, but he failed to clear the outstanding dues. It has been urged that the mobile connection cannot be restored by Idea as the number has been returned to Reliance as per the guidelines,“ the company said.
 
 The forum observed that, “The complainant had duly deposited the said last bill raised by Reliance...and there was nothing due against him in respect of the mobile number which he got shifted to Idea.“ The forum said, “There is an ostensible misunderstanding communication between the service providers, as a result of which, firstly, the mobile connection of the complainant was disconnected, abruptly , without having fault on his part, and, secondly , he has been harassed enormously by running after the service providers for getting connection restored. 
 
 Due to the irresponsible attitude of service providers, the complainant has to suffer immensely .“ Reliance was told to refund the Rs 300 security . Besides, both Reliance and Idea were directed to pay Rs 2,500 each as compensation for unfair trade practice and harassment caused to him, along with Rs 2,500 each as  .
 
