HUBBALLI: Two persons died after mounds of soil caved in on them during a failed operation to revive a dead borewell in Gadag district's Sandigawad village in Ron taluk on Wednesday morning.

 An uncle of the dead person suffered a heart attack after learning about the tragedy and died on the spot, a police officer said.
 
 The deceased are Shankrappa Mallappa Banad, 32, and   alias Pattanshetti, 35, both from Savadi of Ron taluk. The uncle who died has been identified as Sangappa Banad, 71.
 
 Shankrappa M Naregal, a farmer from Savadi, told TOI that   decided to revive his dead borewell because the monsoon forecast for the year was below normal. He hired his mechanic-friend Basavaraj Bellad to help him re-bore the entire well or fix the electric circuit of the submersible motorpump.
 
 Accompanied by Shankrappa's father Mallappa Banad, the duo started work around 9am and dug up a trench of about 40 feet parallel to the borewell. Shankrappa and Basavaraj climbed down on a ladder to look into electric glitches. Once they reached, they asked Mallappa, who was keeping a watch on the ground, to remove the ladder. The minute Mallappa pulled the ladder out, huge mounds of sand collapsed on the duo working underground.
 
 Mallappa, too, was partially buried in the sand and was rescued by shepherds. “My son and the mechanic had removed one casing pipe and were in the process of removing the second when the accident occurred.They were buried in at least 15 feet of sand,“ he said.
 
 District police chief   said a rescue team of 60 police and fire personnel tried to save the duo in vain. “They were stuck 40 feet under. Loose soil and moisture hindered our operation. Added to that, black soil is unstable,“ he said, adding it was unfortunate that the four hour operation failed.
 
 District minister HK Patil, deputy commissioner Manoj Jain, Ron tahsildar Sahivaprabhu Wali and others visited the spot.
 
 
 
 
 Sangappa Banad was the paternal uncle of S h a n k r a p p a , wh o died in the borewell tragedy. Hanumanthappa, a family member, told TOI that Sangappa was closely following the borewell-recovery attempt and was worried when he learnt that his nephew and mechanic were stuck in the sand cave-in. “Sangappa was checking on the operation on the minute. We didn't want to break the bad news to him, but some villagers informed him that his nephew died in the tragedy. Immediately, the elderly man fell unconscious and died in minutes,“ he added.
 
 
 
 
 Shankrappa Naregal, a farmer, said the Savadi family has 10 members, and the deceased, Shankrappa, was the only bread-winner. “The family owns 4.2 acres of land in neighboring Sandigawad village. Shankrappa leaves behind wife Manjula, and children Sangamesh, 7, Sangeeta, 4, and Swapna, 2. Mechanic Basavaraj didn't own any land. He is survived by parents, wife Rekha, children Prajwal, 9, Sangamesh, 6 and Sahana, 3.
 
 
 
 
 The victims are from Savadi village and the tragedy occurred in Sandigawad village of Ron taluk and about 35 km from Gadag district headquarters.The tragedy struck Savadi, which was preparing to celebrate the annual Sangameshwar Jatra on April 19.Rs 25,000
 
 
 
 
 The district administration on Wednesday announced an interim compensation of Rs 25,000 each to the families of the victims. Ron tahsildar Shivaprabhu Wali said Rs 5,000 was for the last rites and rest in immediate compensation.
 
