COIMBATORE:   Investors Service has affirmed the Baa3   of India's three state-owned   refining and marketing companies -- Indian Oil Corporation (IOC), Bharat Petroleum Corporation (BPCL), and Hindustan Petroleum Corporation (HPCL). Moody's has also assigned Baa3 ratings to the foreign currency senior unsecured bonds to be issued by BPRL International Singapore Pte that is guaranteed by BPCL.

 “The outlook on the ratings of all three oil refining and marketing companies is positive,” it said. "The ratings affirmation reflects the continued improvement in the credit metrics of the three oil refining and marketing companies, as diminished levels of fuel subsidies and moderated working capital requirement—resulting from low oil prices—have reduced borrowings," said Vikas Halan, a Moody's vice-president and senior credit officer.
 
 The sustained decline in crude oil prices since June 2014, along with the deregulation of diesel prices since October 2014, has led to a structural decline in total subsidies in India. The amount of subsidies fell to Rs 276 billion (Rs. 27600 crore) in fiscal 2016 from Rs. 1.4 trillion (Rs. 1.4 lakh crore) in fiscal 2014. For the six months ended September 30 (H1 FY2017), subsidies totaled Rs. 78 billion (Rs. 7800 crore).
 
 The earnings of the oil refining and marketing companies have improved as the commissioning of new capacity and higher marketing margins have more than offset weaker refining margins. 
 
 "We expect the earnings of the state-owned   to improve as their additional capacities become fully operational during fiscal 2018," said Halan, who is also the lead analyst for the oil refining and marketing companies at Moody's.
 
 As a result of better earnings and lower borrowings, the credit metrics of the oil refining and marketing companies have improved, the agency said. These and other metrics position the companies strongly relative to previous expectation. Consequently, Moody's has upgraded the baseline credit assessments (BCAs) of all three oil refining and marketing companies to ba1 from ba2.
 
 The continued need to expand capacity and investment in upstream assets could result in increased borrowings and weaker credit metrics, especially if refining or marketing margins decline. “The BCAs could be upgraded further if the oil refining and marketing companies continue to manage their capacity expansion plans in such a way that their credit metrics continue to remain strong for their BCAs,” Moody’s stated.
 
 
