NAGPUR: It was a cozy gathering of youngsters at a city eatery, where India Youth Conclave had its first pre-event, the second edition of   organized by The Climbers. A concept launched at the Lit Fest organized in Nagpur in 2016, this one brought six speakers to narrate their stories. 

 “The motto is to excite and inspire at the same time, as reading somebody’s experiences is not as effective as getting the person to narrate it directly to them,” said  , one of the organizers of the event.
 
 Narrating their stories were writer  , international skater Swapnil  , global volunteer of AIESEC Hitesh Goel, motivational speaker Puja Punyani, Slum Soccer’s Abhijeet Barse and sales head of Harley Davidson Harsh Soni. 
 
 “The speakers are selected on the basis of the work they do and how they have followed their passion. They are all from Nagpur and we browse the Net, check LinkedIn profiles to identify them,” Agarwal said.
 
 The atmosphere was kept informal and the eatery had removed the furniture to accommodate the young crowd. 
 
 The concept is to have speakers share their stories simultaneously and audience is free to choose them according to their preference. They can even move from one speaker to another. “It is just the narration and no questions are asked as the listeners get too absorbed in the narrative,” added Agarwal.
 
 The audience size was restricted to 15 per speaker to make it a close-knit group. The stories ran the entire gamut of emotions as bike enthusiast Soni spoke about his adventures and love to explore the unknown. Samarth had his tiny audience agog as he narrated the thrills of winning the Asia Skating championship against Pakistan, the experience of skating from Kanyakumari to Nagpur and also doing the Nagpur Ramtek stretch on skates to draw attention towards poor condition of roads. 
 
 Mahajan was wondering ‘what to tell’ maybe because he is more used to writing while Barse had his audience hanging by his words as he described the power of sports.
 
 “This has been a very out-of-the-box and exceptional experience here today,” said a second year science student Riya Goel.
 
 
