CHANDIGARH:   of  , a sleepy hamlet in  , have been on hunger strike since May 10   of the village school to Class XII. According to girls, they have been demanding for upgradation of the school for a long time because they were subject to indecent gestures and eve teasing while travelling to the neighboring village for studying in classes XI and XII. 

 In all, 83 girls studying in class XI and XII at the adjoining Kanwali village school had decided to launch hunger strike on May 10 when the administration had failed to respond their demand for upgradation of village school.
 
 Despite persuasions by local MLA, sub-divisional magistrate (SDM), district education officer (DEO) and police administration, the girls have refused to withdraw their protest on the third day on Saturday.
 
 According to village sarpanch  , 10 girls are on hunger strike since May 10. They are surviving on water only for the past three days. Other girls, their parents and some villagers have also joined them in the protest.
 
 Chauhan claimed that even he had written to the local administration about the problem faced by girls while travelling neighbouring village. "We have sufficient space and infrastructure in the existing high school building for upgradation of school to Class XII but nothing has been done by the authorities. Even village school have shortage of 13 teaching staff against the sanctioned strength of 21," he claimed.
 
 "Girls from our village had been travelling for around 3-4 km every day to attend senior secondary classes at Kanwali for years. As most of the girls travel by cycle, they are subject to harassment on the way by boys. They are forcefully stopped, harassed and asked to share mobile numbers," Sujata, one of the protesters, told TOI over phone.
 
 Sheetal, another girl, said they are forced to adopt the path of hunger strike after everybody refused to understand their problem.
 
 When contacted, Rewari DEO Dharamvir Baldodia told TOI that as per the norms, they can upgrade the school only when the strength of students at Class XI and XII is 150 but present strength of students at village Gothra Tappa Dahina is 86.
 
 When asked about the allegations of harassment by girls, DEO said that he never received any such complaint.
 
 Bikram Singh Yadav, local MLA, said that he himself had gone along with SDM, DEO and DSP of the area on Saturday and assured the students and villagers that school would be upgraded only if villagers can assure to meet the requisite strength of 150 students in these classes.
 
 "Initially they had agreed and decided to withdraw the protest but apparently due to some political reasons, they are still continuing," Yadav added.
 
