GURUGRAM: Residents of   are reeling under the twin problems of poor   and maintenance. This has resulted in a raft of problems, including water gushing out of broken   at many places, inundating lanes. 

 “We are troubled by poor drainage for the last 15 years,” said J S Rana, who lives in   of DLF Phase 3, while guiding this correspondent along a lane inundated by sewer water and mud. 
 
 “This   has been clogged because a stream flowing into Nathupur village was filled by residents who progressively settled in those areas.”
 
 Rana said the drain was clogged by   which did not have an outlet. “During rains, the water level rises and sewer water enters our homes,” Raman Sharma, another resident said. “During those times, we simply shift all our household items to the first floor and start living there. I have lost count of the number of times we’ve taken up the matter with the authorities. They don’t even take our calls anymore.”
 
 RWA president Kishori Lal said at least 23 homes were directly affected by the drain blockage. Another resident Anita Sharma said DLF had built a water harvesting plant in S Block next to her home, but never made it operational.
 
  “They made it as a public relations exercise. It never brought us any benefit,” she said. “Instead, a lot of water accumulates there, which results in humidification of the walls of my house. As a result, not only does the paint flake off easily, it has also weakened the very foundation of my home.”
 
 The situation was similar all over. In  , for instance, residents said auto drivers and labourers working across the city had set up a shanty cluster on a plot of land which had not been sold to DLF by its owner. 
 
 “We’re not against them living here, but since this area doesn’t have proper drainage, all the water they use for washing, cleaning and even ablutions flows down and collects right in front of our homes,” said Anand, who lives in V Block.
 
 He added that over time, this accumulated water has created a swamp where mosquitoes breed. “It’s a health hazard,” said Krishna Bahl, another resident. “The swamp emits a putrid smell. No one cares to fill it up. Not even DLF. They build colonies, sell them to unsuspecting residents and wash their hands off.”
 
 The squatters in the shanties said they were equally concerned about the situation. “We understand the health risk it poses,” said Pinky from Nepal. “But there’s no drain here. The owner of this plot has promised he will build a proper drain soon.”
 
 Yashwant Shekhawat, the DLF official responsible for maintenance of the area, did not respond to several requests by TOI. However, the owner of the controversial plot, who prefered to remain anonymous, said he was making all arrangements to build a proper drainage system on it. “Before February 8, all this will be rectified,” he said. “I have initiated the process.”
 
 
