HYDERABAD: The callousness of the executive in enforcing laws can render meaningful efforts and laws useless, said   while narrating an incident pertaining to an important occasion planned in connection with the Hyderabad visit of the then US President   in 2000.

 Revealing this while delivering a talk on the `Rule of Law' at the Manthan Samvaad-2017 lecture and debate series organised at  , the apex court judge recalled that as the then US administration was supporting erstwhile Andhra Pradesh's initiatives in IT and healthcare, the political regime in charge of   at that time thought of making use of the US President's visit to Hyderabad to get him to launch a children's vaccination programme.
 
 But soon, the AP government found itself in a tricky situation as no one was able to help it trace the manufacturers of the vaccine. The AP government then wrote to the central government's human resource development ministry, requesting it to furnish the addresses of the manufacturers of the vaccine in question.
 
 “Hold your breath“, Justice   told the gathering, “the ministry wrote back to the AP government stating that it too was not very sure of the addresses of these vaccine manufacturers. However, the Centre's letter did advise the AP government to enquire with the staff of the World Health Organisation ( ), which has an office in Delhi."
 
 Happening as it did 50 years after independence, this incident depicted a very sad state of affairs, Justice Chelameswar said, pointing out that upon receiving the AP government's letter, WHO later replied that it was not very sure of the quality of the vaccine manufactured in India and suggested some international manufacturers whose quality was certified by the world health body.
 
 “The law dealing with these medicines is a perfect piece of legislation that is on par with similar laws of the western world. Because all these laws were made by various governments after signing the relevant international treaties, the provisions of such laws are well drafted. What is lacking is their strict enforcement," the judge said, hinting that the inability of the government to strictly implement the provisions of the law had resulted in a situation where the vaccines manufactured in the Indian market were rendered anonymous and untrustworthy.
 
 Had the law been implemented properly, the local manufacturers would have been forced to adhere to proper quality standards, leading to their recognition by WHO and the authorities would have become aware of the existence of these local manufacturers.
 
