AHMEDABAD: The   Task Force (OTF), constituted recently to identify young talent and aid their training and transition to elite sportspersons, had an auspicious beginning on Thursday. Almost the entire sports fraternity of Gujarat, including government representatives, sports associations, sports journalists, sports medicine experts, school principals and coaches came together and interacted at a workshop.

 “The task force will have the collective wisdom of all stakeholders at this first-of-its-kind workshop,’’ said Om Pathak, an OTF member.
 
 The passion to make India a major sporting nation, especially in Olympics, was apparent in all those who attended the workshop. Those given a chance to express their views gave suggestions on how to improve India’s Olympics performance.
 
 “I’m indeed very pleased to see the level of enthusiasm among all those present here today,” said  , director-general,   and also the convener member of the OTF.
 
 “I’m especially happy that it’s once again Gujarat which has taken the initiative to hold such a programme in Ahmedabad. It’s a great moment that this first national dialogue after formation of the OTF has taken place in our state,” Pradhan said.
 
 Other topics discussed at the workshop ranged from the current state of Olympic sports in India to the obstacles that prevent Indian athletes from being competitive and winning more medals. A long-term strategy for 2028 Olympics and short-term plans for 2020 and 2024 Games to improve India’s performance were proposed.
 
 Former Indian hockey captain  , who is also member of the OTF, also felt that this meeting was indeed a step in the right direction.
 
 India have the potential to reach 2020 Olympic hockey semifinals
 
 Rasquinha felt that India’s performance in international hockey has improved in the last few years. "Hockey India has been doing a wonderful job in the last five years. I feel that our country has full potential to at least reach the 2020 Olympic hockey semifinals," said  , who is also the CEO of the Olympics  .
 
 When asked as to who he felt were the greatest Indian hockey players, Rasquinha said Danraj Pillay and Dilip Tirkey were the best.
 
 "We are on the right track. The Hockey India League is also doing very good," said Rasquinha, who retired at an early age when at the peak of his career.
 
 On the question of the best coach, Rasquinha was all praise for the present Indian coach Roelant Oltmans.
 
 "Still I think Rajendra Singh Senior was the best Indian coach, although I am a big fan of Cedric D’Souza as well," said Rasquinha, who played 180 matches for India in a span of eight years.
 
