GURUGRAM: An exercise by the Haryana government to   with   has instead left the city with a freckled face, triggering calls for an investigation into reckless waste of public money. 

 Before the Happening Haryana global business summit last March to court investors to the state, the Manohar Lal Khattar regime had decided to sprinkle some greenery on Gurgaon’s tawny landscape. A cosmetic facelift was quickly initiated, 30,000 decorative trees were bought, and planted along the city’s most important thoroughfares. Buying the trees alone is estimated to have cost the exchequer Rs 20 lakh. Then, there was the logistical expense of implementation. Some varieties of palm and other species were flown in from Telangana. 
 
 Nearly a year on, both the trees and the government’s interest in Gurgaon looking good has withered. The two government agencies that look after civic work in the city — MCG and Huda — had, between them, planted 30,000 trees. Among them were 3,000   of different varieties, like  ,  ,  , that came from the southern state. They were planted along the roads and on dividers at several places, including Signature Tower Chowk, Atul Kataria Chowk, parts of the Delhi-Gurgaon expressway, Maharana Pratap Chowk and Iffco Chowk. The idea was to give a Dubai-like look to the city.
 
 The outcome has, however, been rather different. “The trees started decaying immediately after the Happening Haryana summit as they were not watered properly,” said Satbeer Yadav, who lives near Maharana Pratap Chowk. 
 
 Environmentalists said they had raised concerns when the authorities first spoke of bringing palm trees from Telangana and again when the trees started drying within a couple of weeks. “But they chose not to pay heed to our concerns. The result is now evident. All the trees have withered. Not just because of cold, but lack of care and irregular watering,” said Vivek Kamboj of Haryali, an NGO that works for the environment. “It is an utter waste of public money,” he added.
 
 Other environmentalists said an inquiry must be conducted as public money has been wasted. “When we had raised the issue that palm trees can’t survive in the city, we were told fully grown trees were being brought from Telangana as they can survive in our climatic conditions,” said Jitender Bhadana of NGO Save Aravalli. “However, it didn’t happen. Now we want a probe. It will bring to the fore answers to some pertinent questions: Why were the palm trees were bought? How were they maintained in the past 10 months?”
 
 MCG commissioner TL Satyaprakash laid the blame on Huda. “Only those palm trees planted by Huda have decayed,” he told TOI. Huda administrator Yashpal Yadav could not be reached for a comment.
 
 
