 There’s scarcely a place in the big, wide world without an Indian presence. Not even on the sidelines of Wimbledon’s Centre Court on men’s singles final day.
 
  Surely enough,   was there, playing his part in history as   clinched his eighth crown to surpass Britain’s William Renshaw and the US’ Pete Sampras.
  
  A chair umpire and a proud owner of brown badge and as well as a referee with a silver badge, Abhishek was a line umpire when the Swiss maestro fired an ace to seal the match against Marin Cilic of Croatia on Sunday.
  
  For the 39-year-old Kolkata resident, joy knew no bounds. After all, witnessing   history of such a nature and that at close quarters, was a rare privilege and Abhishek was lost for words.
  
  “I cannot describe my experience in words. It was magnificent. It’s one of the best experiences in my officiating career.
  
  And it has been a distinguished career. Abhishek has featured in three of Federer’s 11 finals at   and Sunday’s duty was his 34th Grand Slam assignment.
  
  “I had a feeling that this is Federer’s year. I entered the arena when the Swiss star was 3-0 up in the second set as our group was assigned the second turn to officiate after an hour’s duty by the first group,” said Abhishek from London
  
  “There was a sense of excitement. The crowd, though sporting, was clearly rooting for Federer. It was hard not to get nervous even though I am a seasoned umpire and have done many Grand Slam finals, it was completely different from what I had seen before.
  
  “His shots were crisp, the decibel level of applauds grew higher and higher with each point. It felt like thunder. Placards showing ‘8’ were visible everywhere.”
  
  But as Federer coasted to his record, Abhishek faced a race against time for another honour. But that meant remaining remain on court when championship point was won and not being replaced after the rota was followed.
  
  As per regulations, it would mean witnessing the prize distribution when Prince Charles hands over the winner’s trophy. A much-coveted experience, indeed.
  
  Fifty-five minutes had ticked by and it was touch-and-go. Abhishek’s date with destiny was running out of time. It was 5-4 in the third set but Federer obliged and chair umpire, Frenchman Damien Dumusois’ “Game, set and match” call was simply music to Abhishek’s ears.
  
  It was reward for hard work efficiently done. Not a single call by Abhishek was overruled by the chair umpire this year. Of 400 officials, only two foreign officials per group were picked for the final and Abhishek duly made the list.
  
  It was an honour richly deserved. Abhishek, a post-graduate in Sports Management from IISWBM, Kolkata, has featured in all four Grand Slams for the last four years.
  
  “Umpire Dumusois had the utmost confidence in me as I was regularly assigned for his matches, said Abhishek who reflected on an incident. Britain’s Andy Murray, playing Italy’s Fabio Fognini, challenged his call but it emerged to be a perfect decision by the Indian.
  
  It summed up success for the Kolkatan and in straight sets.
