Amid the ruins of  , which is adjacent to  , the three-day sufi music festival, Jahan-e-Khusrau, mesmerized the audience. Directed by filmmaker  , the festival, which took place in the city after a two-year hiatus, saw the participation of some renowned artists and singers. It was presented by the Rumi Foundation and supported by the Government of Delhi, ICCR and the DS Puri Foundation.

 
 
 
  
  Sufi music artist Deveshi Sehgal (L) and Sonam Kalra during their performance (BCCL)
 
 
 
 Director Muzaffar Ali, who presents at least 12 new poems in every edition of the festival, said that the festival was dedicated to sufi saints Hazrat Baba Fariduddin Ganjshakar and the pir of Hazrat Nizamuddin Auliya. "I am glad that we can once again remember the sufi saints and their enlightened views of life," he said. All the performers expressed gratitude to him for the opportunity to be a part of the event. Among other artists, seen performing on different days of the festival were Daler Mehndi, Satinder Sartaj, Sukhwinder Singh, Sonam Kalra and Malini Awasthi.
 
 
  
    with Naveen Jindal (BCCL)
 
 
 While Malini mesmerized the crowd with her soulful performance, sufi music artist Deveshi Sehgal, who performed on the last day, said, "It is the most beautiful platform to showcase my talent. I don’t know how I ended up on this stage."
 
 
  
  Muzaffar Ali (L) and Amitabh Kant (BCCL)
 
 
 
 
 Anita Deshpande, who came to attend the evening with her friends, said, "This festival shows the true spirit and aura of sufi music. We don’t get to attend such musical evenings often, since events like this are rare." Others remembered the last time they attended the festival. Asif Ahmad, another music lover, said, “Earlier, such festivals used to be organized more often in Delhi. I remember attending Jahan-e-Khusrau when it was organized a few years back. It was really different from this one."
 
 
  
  (R) Dominic Asquith, the British High Commissioner, with wife Louise (BCCL)
 
 
 
  
  The festival was held at Arab Ki Sarai near Humayun’s Tomb (BCCL)
 
 
