BENGALURU: A majority of Bengaluru's working professionals prefer to catch up on their sleep on Sunday mornings after a week of hectic travel, or rise early to take their kids to football or tennis coaching.

 The Sunday of October 16, 2016, though, was different. The tech capital shunned the Sunday snuggle for a civic struggle. Around 8,000 civilians formed a human chain to oppose the 6.7-km-long steel flyover proposed to be built on the road leading to the airport. The most lethal weapon in their hands was a placard that screamed: 'Beda' ('No'). 
 
 After tough posturing for over four months, the Karnataka government has now announced the cancellation of the Rs 2,100-crore mega infrastructure project. Bengaluru development minister  , who had been piloting the project, said, "We bow to public opinion, we are cancelling this steel flyover project." This meant saving 812 trees, crores of rupees, and retaining the city’s charm and aesthetics. But the big picture is: It was the first major victory for Bengaluru's   movement.
 
 "In fact, this marks the inflection point for Bengaluru," said actor  . In fact, he along with other civic-conscious Bengalureans, were instrumental in bringing the hitherto quiescent upper middle class and working professionals onto the streets to save their city. But the million-dollar question is: How did the city's working professionals, who are exhausted trying to beat traffic jams on the road or clearing logjams on their computer screens, spare time for protests?
 
 A former IAS officer, who did not want to be named, said, "It is frustration and anger against the system. Infrastructure crumbled, air pollution increased, trees were being massacred and citizens anger against the system was growing. Several organisations were working on different issues, but their common motive was to halt the city’s denigration."
 
 The citizen movement gained critical mass when the government plonked the steel flyover in the heart of the city without conducting any environmental impact assessment or holding public consultations. All the organisations started grouping under the banner of 'Citizens For Bengaluru' and demanded the government drop the project and come up with better eco-friendly solutions. "Since the movement is not affiliated to any political party, it acquired mass public trust," Belawadi said.
 
 However, the government refused to let go of the steel flyover. What followed were bribery allegations, political accusations and intervention by the green bench. Yet, the government did not budge. The government's stubbornness made more citizens jump into the ring. Technology expedited communication and coordination among citizens.   facilitated citizenry-congregation: Facebook conversations were initiated, video campaigns were carried out, tweetathons were conducted and Whatsapp communication to resident welfare associations was established.
 
 A Congress minister said, "Our greatest weakness and their biggest strength was communication. Usually, social media has been used during rescue and relief operations such as the 2015 Chennai floods but citizen groups have used it to mobilise their support base."
 
 What are the lessons to be learnt from Bengaluru's citizen activism? Belawadi said, "The idea that the government can do whatever it wants for five years is now passe. Citizens want to know what is happening, on a daily basis, and how the government’s decisions will impact them. Consultation and course-correction have to become the principle of the day for the government. Citizen activism will only become stronger in the future."
 
