KOTTAYAM: Self-financing institutions under the   will begin operations under a new society from next academic year. 

 The university will lease out properties and buildings of these institutions for a nominal rent to the society. 
 
 The university syndicate has approved the bylaw of the society named ‘Centre for Professional and Advanced Studies’ which was formed by the state government. 
 
 The bylaw also provides option for the university to take back these institutions if the society fails to run them in future. 
 
 Some of the institutions will go under the Kerala University of Health Sciences and Kerala Technological University and the remaining which do not come under either of this will get affiliated to MG University.
 
 The society will be chaired by education minister and the higher education secretary will be the vice-chairman. It will also have three experts recommended by the government.
 
 There will be an executive council for the society and a representative of the MG University will be there in the council, which will have a full-time director, who is likely to be an IAS officer or an expert in the field of education. The headquarters of the society will be at the campus of the  .
 
 Those institutions which will come under the society include 12 centres of  , nine centres of School of Medical Education, University College of Engineering, Thodupuzha, three centres of School of Technology and Applied sciences, School of Communication and Journalism and Department of Library and Information Sciences.
 
 The worth of around 60-acres, buildings and other infrastructure is estimated to be over Rs 500 crore. This will now come under the control of the new society.
 
 Teaching staff in the self-financing institutions will be retained, while University staff on deputation in these institutes will be recalled. 
 
 However, the MG University will find it painful to part with the School of Medical Education (SME). 
 
 According to a recent finding of a syndicate sub-committee, the SME had provided a profit of Rs 1.87 crore in the FY 2015-16. 
 
 According to the report, majority of the institutions directly under the university except SME is running on a loss. There are 11 self-financing institutions under the varsity. 
 
 According to the report, the   has incurred the maximum loss of Rs 3 crore in 2015-16. Even when loss-making SFIs go under the society giving a relief to the  , the biggest concern for the university will be the loss of money-making SME with its eight centres.
 
