PUNE: If travelling more frequently was among your New Year resolutions, the first long weekend of 2017 is the perfect time to kick it off with many airlines and hotels offering lower fares and economical packages to  .

 Industry sources said travellers from the city are making a beeline for short-haul international destinations like Dubai, Bali, Singapore and Thailand or local spots like Mahabaleshwar, Coorg and Goa ahead of the weekend starting January 26.
 
 Nilesh Bhansali, director of   of are fuelling this trend. For instance, if booked a little early in January , a round trip to Dubai cost just around Rs 13,000 for the Republic Day weekend as against a normal fare of Rs 18,000 to Rs 25,000,“ he said.
 
 Bhansali is sending close to 80 passengers to various destinations the next weekend. “People are opting for short-haul international destinations like Bangkok, Thailand, Hong Kong, Dubai, Sri Lanka, Maldives, Bhutan and Nepal. The number of bookings for the weekend has surged by 30% in comparison to the last long weekend in 2016,“ he said.
 
 Travel firms are generally happy that business is picking Pune (TAAP), said airline flash sales this season began in December last year and continued in January . “Travellers are choosing international locations which offer visa-on-arrival or fast processing of visas. Also, cheaper international airfares up after a two-month slump.“November and December last year were bad for the tourism industry due to demonetisation. Now, however, travel for the Republic Day weekend has picked up by about 15%,“ said Shaishav Parekh, partner of Panam Tours and Travels and treasurer of Travel Agents Association of India (TAAI).
 
 Parekh's firm has booked about 70 travellers for various destinations in India and abroad for the weekend. “People seem especially keen on international spots such as Bali, thanks to a direct flight from Mumbai to there, besides Thailand and Singapore,“ he said. Karan Anand, head of relationships at Cox & Kings, told TOI that many travellers would expectedly take an off on January 27, a Friday , to turn the weekend into a four-day vacation.“We are seeing a 25% rise in inquiries for the weekend. Travel enthusiasts who could not vacation during the year-end or New Year due to non-availability of hotels or other personal reasons are packing their bags now. The benefit is dual -they save on leaves and are booking hotels and flights cheaper since this is not the peak travel season,“ he said.
 
 Anand said short-haul overseas destinations with a fouror five-hour travel time are in demand. “The choicest destinations are Dubai, Singapore, Hong Kong, Macau, Thailand and Sri Lanka. As the Dubai Shopping Festival is coming to an end on January 28, many Indians are rushing there for the unbeatable shopping deals,“ he said.
 
 Neelu Singh, CEO and director of online travel bazaar Ezeego1, said, “We have seen a rise in the number of people travelling to international destinations as compared to previous years. We have ob served a 20-25% rise in bookings for Mauritius, Bali, Maldives, Phuket, Vietnam, Philippines, Bangkok and Dubai, each of which can be easily explored in four days. For the upcoming Republic Day weekend, we have registered the highest bookings for Thailand and Dubai in the short-haul market, with most people choosing flight-plus hotel deals that are cheaper than booking each element separately .“
 
 Sohail Zaveri, executive director of  , said, “Airfares to Dubai are about 15% cheaper than usual due to stiff competition among airlines. A one-way fare to Dubai starts at around Rs 8,000 as against the usual Rs 9,500 or more.“
 
