PANAJI: Can a Hindu deity and a Catholic one be sisters? Apparently, they can.

 Today, May 1, Catholics from North Goa’s commercial hub of Mapusa, and adjoining areas will gather at the town’s church, dedicated to Saint Jerome, to venerate Our Lady of Miracles (Milagres Saibinn). Outside the church, which is approximately 12km from Panaji, Hindus will queue up to bathe another statue of Our Lady of Miracles, kept there for their benefit, in oil.
 
 To these Hindu devotees, Our Lady of Miracles is a sister of their Goddess   of Shirgao, whose temple is located around 15 kilometres away.
 
 “The feast of Our Lady of Miracles is one occasion that shows Goa’s communal harmony,” said history enthusiast, Sanjeev Sardessai.
 
 This feast is celebrated on the third Monday of  , while the ‘zatra’ (temple festival) of   falls on Vaishaka Shudd Panchami, which means both occasions fall only one or two days apart each year. Goddess Lairai’s ‘zatra’ was observed on April 30 this year, one day prior to the feast.
 
 Our Lady of Miracles, or Milagres Saibinn, is believed to be the deity Mirabai, a sister of Goddess Lairai. A temple dedicated to Mirabai was located at Mayem, until the Portuguese, during the later part of their reign, captured the areas further north. Goddess Mirabai’s temple is believed to have been destroyed in the process, but she took on the form of Our Lady of Miracles for devotees. “Mirabai’s six sisters, who were worshipped in different temples, are believed to have been Lairai at Shirgao, Mhamai at Mayem, Kelbai at Mulgao, Monai at Morjim, Mahalasa at Mardol and Adiadipa. Khetko is their only brother. He is revered by the fisherfolk at Chopdem,” historian Maria de Lourdes Bravo da Costa e Rodrigues writes in ‘Feasts, Festival and Observances of Goa’.
 
 According to folklore, it is a fight that broke out between Lairai and her brother, Khetko, that is said to have broken up the siblings.
 
 “Earlier, Our Lady of Miracles would send flowers as a gift to her sister, Goddess Lairai, during the ‘zatra’. Lairai would, in turn, send oil for her sibling’s feast. The two events were incomplete unless these gifts arrived. But the practice appears to have been lost somewhere down the line,” Sardessai said.
 
 Rodrigues writes that the sisters, Goddess Lairai and Our Lady of Miracles, are believed to visit each other on the day of their festivals. She also writes that Our Lady of Miracles was originally known as ‘Nossa Senhora de Todos os Bens’ (Our Lady of All Blessings) but the miracles she is believed to have performed for devotees earned her the name, ‘Milagres’. 
 
 An expansive fair with games and other stalls, are set up on the feast day outside the church at Mapusa. Devotees, both Catholic and Hindu, offer Our Lady of Miracles candles, oil, money and miniature body parts made of wax, in exchange for favours on the feast day.
 
