NAGPUR:  ,   are the basic causes of   (CKD) in most of the persons suffering from these ailments.

 But lack of awareness and unwillingness to abide by the doctor’s instructions has increased the incidence of CKD by 8-10% in the last decade or so. Another major cause of CKD is self-medication by patients, especially pain killers, which have a very telling effect on the kidneys.
 
 Speaking to TOI on the occasion of the   on Thursday, chairman of   of Nagpur Dr Prakash Khetan said that the theme of this year for the day is Kidney and Obesity. Almost 10% of the adult population in the country is obese. And when obesity and diabetes come together, it makes the body predisposed to CKD and kidney cancer.
 
 “It also leads to loss of protein in the urea. But paradoxically, obese people live longer on dialysis than thin persons,” Dr Khetan said.
 
 Vice-chairman of the society, Dr Monali Sahu, said that since obesity results in insulin resistance, it increases the load on the kidneys. And to add to all the complexities, the sedentary life style coupled with food habits like high salt intake and fast food put the patient in the vicious circle from where he/she is unable to walk out.
 
 Tobacco and gutka are also big killers. They affect the small blood vessels in our body and since the kidneys have a network of small blood vessels, they are worst-affected.
 
 “Patients who have got high blood pressure but have got so used to it that they no longer feel the symptoms of hypertension are the worst-hit. These need individualized treatment and dose adjustments. Early detection can actually reverse CKD,” said Dr Sahu.
 
 She said that self-medication, mainly buying and eating pain killers across the counter, causes CKD. But patients seldom realize this and compound the problem further.
 
 Dr Sameer Chaubey also strongly condemned the use of pain killers. “Medicines containing ‘bhasams’ lead to deposition of various metals in the kidney and affect its functioning very badly. The incidence of CKD has risen by 8-10% in the last few years mainly due to increase in diabetes,” he said.
 
 The need is to control sugar levels, blood pressure, to drink a lot of water or fluids, avoid smoking and drinking, reduce weight, change lifestyle, and stop eating fast food. Diabetic patients also get a disease called proteinurea in which the body secrets healthy protein in the urine which is very harmful for the body.
 
