PUNE: A few   ( ) members have questioned the top officials claim that Camp is an open defecation-free (ODF) zone. 

 PCB chief executive officer D N Yadav, speaking at a general board meeting last week, had said Cantonment areas had passed the Centre’s Swachh Bharat Mission test with flying colours. 
 
 “I congratulate all the officials concerned. Our surveys have shown that people have embraced the Swachh Bharat mission to eliminate   in the area,” Yadav said.
 
 The surveys, say PCB officials, were conducted by health inspectors and the elected member of every ward. With the exception of one, every ward got a clean bill of health.
 
 “Only in Ward VII, which includes Ghorpadi, the corporator said there is a lack of latrines, and that people still defecate in unhygienic conditions,” Yadav said.
 
 That ward’s representative and former vice-president   complained that large portions of her ward were “completely ignored”.
 
 “Many residents do not have space inside their homes for toilets, and there are not enough public toilets. Some parts, like the areas around Queen’s Garden, have few public toilets which is why people defecate near drains or in open plots. The board deflects my queries, saying the available land is either under the district collector, or the local military authorities. I am personally prepared to obtain no-objection certificates from either authority to facilitate construction of public toilets,” Mantri said.
 
 PCB officials however played down the scale of the problem.
 
 “It is absolutely not the case ... only a small number of people defecates out in the open in Ghorpadi,” said a senior PCB health official, adding: “Camp is overwhelmingly defecation-free. There are public latrines available, and people should start using them. We are already in talks with local military authorities to provide land, and we will start constructing toilets as soon as possible. But complaints of large-scale open-defecation in some parts of our jurisdiction are false.” 
 
 
