Corporal punishments may be frowned upon but the recent spurt in cases of school children being subjected to harsh punishments, allegedly because their parents protested fee hikes or delayed payment, has raised concerns about students’ safety in schools. Take for instance the sevenyear-old student of   in Thane who was thrashed ruthlessly, purportedly because her parents could not pay the school fees on time. Prachi, the class 2 student, who was left with a gaping bald spot on her head, remains shaken by the cruel act. The school, however, is yet to tender even an apology claim the distraught parents.
 
  Prachi’s is among several cases of corporal punishment and harassment that have been reported in city schools off late. Discrimination against the child at school, subjecting them to various kinds of punishment, forcing a child to sit alone in class, compelling students to stand outside class for hours at a stretch — these are just some forms of actions taken under the garb of disciplinary steps.
  
  Earlier this month, Gaurav Kadam, parent of class 4 student Srushti enrolled in Panvel’s St Joseph High School had alleged that his daughter’s class teacher made her sit alone in class with the lights and fans switched off. The incident has mentally scarred the child. “The school is trying all means to bully me into paying the high fee,” said Kadam, who had refused to pay the amount, citing an ongoing case in the state education department.
  
  Strategy of school management to pressurise: parents, educationistsSchools, meanwhile, continue to say there have been no wrongdoings. In Prachi’s case, a showcause notice was issued to the teacher while trustee R M Tiwari said the ‘teacher would be suspended if her explanation about the incident is not satisfactory’. Srushti’s school’s principal Saeeda Malin had denied any misdeed, forcing the parent to take the case to the State Commission for Protection of Child Rights.
  
  Parents and educationists say the school managements’ strategy is to harass the students which in turn, will force parents to buckle under pressure. According to Jayant Jain, president of city-based NGO  , “Managements of private schools often look at children as moneyminting machines. They tend to resort to extreme measures of recovery, including corporal punishment and mental harassment.” The forum has handled several such cases and helps parents register complaints.
  
  Six-year-old Archit’s father   has written to various authorities complaining about harassment by Saraswati Mandir High School, Mahim, for delayed fee payment. On November 9 last year, his son had been forced to stand outside the classroom for three hours for this reason, he claimed. “We had been unable to pay due to a family emergency. Surely the school can consider this rather than punish an innocent child,” Waghmare pointed out.
  
  It should be noted that The RTE Act of 2009 prohibits ‘physical punishment’ and ‘mental harassment’ under section 17(1) and makes it a punishable offence under section 17(2).
  
  Francis Joseph, co-founder of School Leaders Network feels the root of this issue lies in the capacity of the school to train its teachers in classroom management. “Children are not responsible for delays in fee payments and should not be punished under any circumstances. Payment issues should be resolved between the schools and parents,” he pointed out.
  
  Despite repeated calls and messages, Deputy Director of Education BB Chavan could not be reached for a comment.
