

 PANAJI: Activists, NGOs and over 70 villagers of Agasaim blocked   on Tuesday, alleging that the contractor carrying out the work of the approach road to the new Zuari bridge dumped mud in their fields overnight without acquiring the land. 
 
 The old problem resurfaced after villagers had stopped work a few weeks ago amid protests that the contractor and   hadn’t responded to their demands. Both had promised to provide them with copies of documents regarding land acquisition, construction work, permissions and other related paperwork before work commenced.
 
 A meeting scheduled a month ago at the PWD office was cancelled as no officials attended it.
 
 The villagers also filed a criminal complaint of trespass and destruction of standing crops against PWD, WD XIV (NH), Fatorda, Margao, and its contractor Dilip Buildcon Limited, without legal sanctity, for widening NH 17 at Agasaim and Goa Velha.
 
 “A 30-metre-wide road along a 2.5-km-long stretch of field in Agasaim and Goa Velha means a loss of 75,000sq m of prime agricultural lands,” environmentalist Abhijit Prabhudesai, said, adding that water displacement and flooding would make cultivation difficult and result in a loss of over 2 lakh.
 
 Villagers said although the land was acquired in 1996, the government had not taken possession as most farmers had not accepted the compensation provided. “Being in possession of the land, the farmers cultivated them. Hence, filling the area with mud is a criminal trespass and destruction of property,” a villager said.
 
 Activists alleged that no environment impact studies were carried out in the ecologically sensitive flood plains of River Zuari. “The impact on agriculture, food security and sovereignty of local communities, biodiversity and lives of local residents were not studied before work started,” Prabhudesai said.
 
 “The farmers have received no support. Many villagers have also lost their lives during accidents on the highway while crossing over to their fields,” Suraj Naik, a local, said.
 
 Philomena Vaz, a local farmer who depends entirely on agriculture, said, “The upcoming project has hit me and my family and we cannot sustain ourselves without farming.”
 
 Currently, the villagers are unable to produce prized vegetables such as the famous Agasaim eggplants, beans, tambdi bhaji, radish, gourds, melons, etc.
 
