AHMEDABAD: After the month-long strike at   plant in Sanand a year ago, labour unrest at the plant seems to be brewing again. On Wednesday, around 200 workers ‘boycotted’ the company transportation facility for returning home after work. This led to a major ruckus at the place. Sources said the workers’ refusal to take the official bus was in protest against the company for not paying attention to their demand for salary hike. However, the drama ended after the police intervened. 

 Trouble began at around 3 pm when a section of workers decided to return to their homes on their own. They did not use the transportation facility provided by the company.  , president of a a workers union at the plant, Bharatiya Kamdaar Ekta Manch, said that when they went past the main gate gate of the plant, company officials called the police. 
 
 “The police stopped us on the main road that leads to the facility and did not allow us to go,” Rabari said.
 
 He further alleged that there has been no revision in wages of workers for the past two years. 
 
 “We have been demanding an increase in salaries but the company has not yet agreed to our demand,” Rabari said. “Instead, some workers were slapped with notices on disciplinary grounds recently. If we want to go home on our own, the company is not even permitting us to do so.” 
 
 Workers said that negotiations for revision in salaries has been going on for over six months but the company is still not accepting their demand.
 
 In a statement on Wednesday’s events, the company has said: “The Tata Motors management handed show cause notices to two workmen of Sanand plant for serious misconduct. In protest, post-completion of the A-shift, workers refused company transport. Police have been deployed in this region and section 144 is already in force. Police authorities persuaded workmen to board 5 buses provided by the company and the workmen have vacated the area.” 
 
 Earlier, on February 28, 2016, the Nano plant at Sanand was gripped by a labour unrest when 422 workers struck the work demanding reinstatement of their 26 colleagues who were suspended by the company. The agitating workers also demanded that they be allowed to form a union. The strike, first at the plant after it was moved from Singur (in  ) to Sanand, lasted for over a month till the company yielded to the workers’ demands.
 
 “Our demand for wage revision was not taken up as the enquiry against half the suspended workers was to be completed within six months. There has been no headway even six months after the completion of enquiry,” Rabari said.
 
 It may be mentioned here that Alpesh Thakor, convener of OBC, SC, ST Ekta Manch and  , had on February 23 made a bid to lock the gates of Tata Nano plant in Sanand seeking employment of local youths in the company.
 
