NAGPUR: Consumer organizations have strongly opposed MSEDCL’s review petition seeking another 12% hike in  . Power rates had been increased by about 10% from November 2016. The objections were raised during a hearing on the petition held recently in Mumbai.

 Maharashtra   (MVGS) contended that a steep hike of 12% could not be allowed through a review petition. Such a hike could only be allowed after holding public hearings in which citizens can submit suggestions and objections.
 
 MVGS pointed out that the auditors had made serious adverse remarks relating to the fixed assets of   in the annual accounts for 2014-15. According to the auditors, MSEDCL does not undertake physical verification of assets, which is mandatory. Therefore, the Commission should undertake third party verification of MSEDCL’s assets. Cost benefit analysis reports should also be verified before allowing capitalization of schemes.
 
 MVGS further stated that MSEDCL’s contention of reduction in HT Industrial sales might be true only up to October, 2016 because, subsequent to imposition of additional surcharge and revised cross subsidy surcharge from November, 2016, open access consumers are returning to MSEDCL. 
 
 As regards agricultural sales, MSEDCL may be directed to file its mid term review (MTR) petition along with the report of the committee on agriculture sales. Similarly, the distribution loss trajectory should be revisited only after the committee report becomes available. 
 
  contended that under the guise of review of operation and maintenance (O & M) expenses, MSEDCL is asking the Commission to go against or completely change its own regulations. Another consumer organization CMIA also raised several issues including non-verification of physical assets by MSEDCL.
 
 Earlier, MSEDCL managing director   said that financial condition of the company was precarious and it had Rs21,000 crore dues towards various companies. Hence, the Commission should allow a power tariff hike. MERC directed MSEDCL to reply to the queries raised by the consumer organizations and scheduled the hearing later this month.
 
