KOCHI: The CBSE new circular 'prompting' schools to prescribe NCERT books over the ones published by   is receiving mixed reactions from their school managements and parents.

 The president of   TPM Ibrahim Khan said that most schools place orders for textbooks much in advance around January and that the circular, which was issued a week ago, has come too late.
 
 He said that one of the main reasons why schools have opted for private text is because   and Training's (NCERT) textbooks are usually not made available in sufficient numbers to meet the needs of all students and often student have entered the new academic year without textbook, if the school depends entirely on NCERT.
 
 The new circular from CBSE suggests that all schools were supposed to list their   on the   before March 22 and that the school's demand will be met accordingly.
 
 Khan said that often books printed by private publishers as per the syllabus suggested by CBSE cost as much as three times as the equivalent NCERT textbooks.
 
 Parents suggest that schools often force parents in buying books that hardly ever is used during the academic term.
 "Last year, I bought a science textbook (printed by a private publisher) for my child for Rs 270, while the NCERT maths book of the same thickness cost only Rs 50," said Joel K Jose, whose daughter studies in private school in Kochi.
 
 He said that last year the school forced the parents to buy a general knowledge book, which was never used during the academic year.
 
 "There is a misconception that schools liaise with private publishers for financial gains but that is not the case. On many occasions, NCERT books are often lacking in quality and unavailable in the start of the year," said Khan, who suggest that CBSE's decision to prompt schools into using NCERT books is of good intent but the schools had to be informed in advance.
 
 Sacred Heart School principal Father Antony M also has the same opinion as Khan, he suggests that circular has come too late as they have already ordered their textbooks in October.
 
 "The problem with NCERT textbooks is that they do not have enough content and preparation material. Therefore, in junior classes, I would suggest that students use books printed by other publishers. Once they are in secondary or higher secondary, they can use the NCERT text as they are capable making the necessary notes to supplement their textbook," said Antony M.
 
 Khan added that NCERT will also have to make their book more colourful and attractive so that students in the lower class do not lose interest in subject due to dull presentation.
 
