Actor   Chatterjee “drank but was not intoxicated” when he took the wheel of the Toyota sedan that crashed on Rashbehari Avenue before daybreak on April 29, killing model   Singh Chauhan.

  Vikram did not lose control over his car because of another car suddenly coming in his way, as claimed before, but his car “skidded on the tram tracks”.
 
 These are the two key elements that cops, investigating model Sonika Chauhan’s death, learned from the actor after questioning him for seven hours over two rounds between Tuesday night and Wednesday evening at Tollygunge police station. “Both facts are central to our investigation and there seem to be certain key mismatches between what came out of our questioning at the police station today and what he recounted to other police officers at the hospital immediately after the accident,” an official said, adding that there were several “other key points” that they would try to unravel in the following rounds of questioning.
 
 Vikram has reportedly told the interrogators that he did consume alcohol, but was “def-initely not drunk”. Police, however, have already seized bill vouchers and payment receipts from three joints he had been to that night. In one pub, “Vikram and his friends” had ordered four pegs of liquor, police sources said.
 
 According to those present during the questioning, Vikram also said he doesn’t rem-ember a second car coming in his way. His father, Bijoy Chatterjee, had earlier claimed that his son was forced to swerve wildly on Rashbehari Avenue after a car came out at top speed from Tara Road. 
 
 “Vikram told us that he was driving around 70 km per hour and that his car might have skidded on the tram tracks. He said that suddenly the car steering turned left and got jammed forcing him to lose control,” claimed an officer.
 
 His claim, police said, is subject to verification. A Toyota team from Bengaluru checked the car again on Wednesday. The team retrieved the Event Data Recorder (EDR). The Toyota Corolla Altis EDR can reveal the exact speed of the car when the accident took place. In the post-crash EDRs, data based on longitudinal g-force (frontal or rear collision), lateral g-force (side collision), and roll angle/lateral g-force (rollovers) is recorded. In the pre- and post-crash EDRs, data such as vehicle speed, engine speed (rpm), accelerator angle and brake application (whether the brake pedal was applied or not) is also recorded.
 
 Another contradiction that cropped up during the cop questioning was over the calls made by the actor after the crash. Vikram had earlier told reporters that he had neither Sonika’s phone nor his after the accident and that he could remember just two numbers – that of his father and the other of a close friend. “An analysis of the calls show there was one outgoing and two incoming calls between 5.25 am and 5.30 am. We have asked Vikram to explain these calls,” claimed a source. Police, curiously, hasn’t found Sonika’s cell. “We will need to ascertain if her phone is missing,” said an officer. Vikram was questioned about this, but he said he didn’t know where it was. 
 
 Police said Vikram claimed that Sonika called him up between 11.20-11.30 pm and asked him to pick her up from a certain location. The two then stuck together and visited three pubs before heading towards Kasba Rajdanga close to Vikram’s home. But the actor never came out of the car and the two kept chatting. They moved from the spot 35 minutes later, crossed Bijon Setu and met with the accident.
 
 According to the cops, all the statements taken together indicate that Sonika along with two female friends first went to The Myx on Park Street, where they had a few drinks. From here, they went to Phoenix at The Astor Hotel on Shakespeare Sarani, where they met up with two male friends and Vikram. The group had food and alcohol here. The cops have seized the bill from the bar authorities and even interrogated the bartender. The bill shows an order for four pegs of rum, which was settled by one of the two men (not Vikram). The CCTV footage at the bar shows Vikram with a glass of drink.
 
 From Astor, the six friends went to Hotel Hindustan International on AJC Bose Road. According to the statements of the friends, Vikram took a glass of drink here, too, but there is no confirmation whether it was alcoholic or otherwise. All of them left HHI at 2:15 am – Sonika and Vikram in the latter’s car, and the four others in different vehicles. The police plan to send Sonika’s viscera for forensic testing once they receive the post-mortem report. 
 
 “Call details and tower locations are still being matched with that of Vikram’s friends. We have two important statements from Vikram’s friends Sunny and Anindya. We have identified seven more such people. We might ask him to come back and face them directly,” claimed the officer.
 
 Police sources said questions relating to the choice of hospital – located over 5 km away from the accident spot – and the reason why even his acquaintances failed to inform Sonika’s parents about the incident went largely unanswered.
 
 
