NEW DELHI: A   that the local police maintained to keep in touch with   in   helped the cops reunite a small boy with his parents 15 hours after he wandered off from a park outside his house in  . Five-year-old   went missing from 3pm on Monday after he left home to play outside and was reunited with this family on Tuesday morning.

 When Subhan did not return home even after two hours on Monday, the worried parents went in search of him. They did not see him at the park where he usually played with friends. The boy wasn’t there at his friends’ houses either. After waiting for some time, the parents went to the police station and filed a missing person complaint.
 
 Around two kilometres away in Vishwas Nagar, meanwhile, some cops noticed a kid scurrying along the road alone, obviously panicked and crying out for his parents. When he saw a constable approach him, the tot hastily walked away. When the policeman caught up with him and asked him what was wrong, Subhan could not tell him where he lived. After that the boy refused to say anything more.
 
 The cops then spent that next five hours holding him by the hand and taking him along the numerous lanes in the area, asking if he recognised his house, but they could not locate his family.
 
 In the meantime, the beat policemen, the control rooms and police stations in the localities around Vishwas Nagar were informed about the boy. His photo was also shared through various WhatsApp groups that the local police stations maintained to remain in touch with members of the area’s RWAs. They asked the groups to share the boy’s picture. The cops also made arrangement to have the fact of the boy being in their custody announced at some temples and gurdwaras and through rickshaw pullers.
 
 Some hours later, police said, Deepaanker, a member of an RWA at Vishwas Nagar, informed them that he recognised the boy and said he lived nearby. “He was brought to the Farsh Bazar police station and reunited with his family, thanks to our staff, Deepaanker and social media,” said Nupur Prasad, DCP (Shahdara).
 
 Hardened policemen later said they were moved to see the boy running in glee towards his weeping father. The boy had apparently just wandered from the park and got lost in the congested area. Family members related how they were on the verge of losing all hopes of ever finding Subhan. 
 
