CHENNAI: It was a day of mixed fortunes for M K   who sought to bring back the spotlight on   as Tamil Nadu’s principal opposition party even as the focus for the last few days was on the battle between AIADMK general secretary Sasikala and rebel OPS. 

 DMK smelt an opportunity and wanted to push TN to an immediate election to cash in on the anti-Sasikala sentiment sweeping the state. However, DMK lost the plot in the assembly by unleashing violence, totally unprovoked, when the Speaker refused to heed Stalin’s pleas for secret ballot to decide the fate of Palaniswami’s government. 
 
 The efforts of the DMK members to engage the AIADMK MLAs belonging to the Sasikala faction went in vain as they remained immobile as stone, choosing to be mere spectators. Eventually, as the Speaker ordered the en masse eviction of its MLAs, DMK lost its opportunity. After being evicted from the House, Stalin rushed to the   and presented a memorandum to governor C Vidyasagar Rao. By evening, he had mobilised DMK cadres and sat on hunger strike on the  . Stalin and his men were arrested from the spot and released at 9.45pm.
 
 Possible defectors in the AIADMK camp supported the government because the numbers were heavily stacked against the opposition in the absence of 88 DMK MLAs. The party appeared to have lost the momentum as the public seemed put off by the ruckus its MLAs staged. Stalin, who exited the assembly corridors with an unbuttoned shirt after he was bundled out by the watch and ward staff of the assembly, alleged that he and his colleagues were manhandled by police and assembly marshals. He clearly wanted to take his battle to the masses. 
 
 The crowds swelled on the Marina in no time and the protests spread to all parts of the state too. “But if a government can be unseated by mobilising crowds, then electoral democracy becomes meaningless. Such acts could also boomerang on the party that does it. It will lead to miscreants and anti-national forces taking advantage of the situation,” opined analyst M Kasinathan. 
 
 The DMK’s advantage is that the Centre is not sympathetic towards a state government remote-controlled by Sasikala and her family members. Also, the DMK’s opposition to the government will be viewed by the people as its fight against the Mannargudi clan.
 
