Even as the last rites of Hyderabadi techie   were being held in the city on Tuesday, thousands of Indian students went on candlelight marches condemning the hate crime and yet, spreading the message of peace across USA. 
“This shooting, coming within a week of another fatal shooting of a Telugu student in California, has raised a significant alarm among families back home in India. Everyone’s worried about our safety. They keep asking whether this is going to be the new norm; whether Indians are being targeted specifically and whether the new political rhetoric is permitting this carnage. But, we are thankful that such ignorant bigotry does not represent America or American values,” said   President of Telugu Association of North America (TANA).
 And we had a fine demonstration of those values in young Ian Grillot, who stood up to intervene in the face of bigotry and tackled the racism head on,” adds Chowdary Jampala President of Telugu Association of North America (TANA). In fact, other Telugu associations, like   (TLCA), are rallying to demonstrate that these hate crimes don’t represent all of America. 
 Vivek Nemana, a Telugu student who is pursuing his master’s at Princeton University, shares, “My family has been sharing messages on WhatsApp imploring me to avoid going out late nights and to not confront people, no matter what the provocation. His (Srinivas’) death is tragic and terrifying, and awfully familiar, but I see it as part of a larger arc of violent vigilante hate crimes against minorities in the US. I think many members of the Telugu diaspora see it that way too. Attacks on Muslim shopkeepers, black teenagers, Telugu engineers, Jewish graves... these are attacks on all of us.”
 Siddhartha Maganti, another Hyderbadi living in California, echoed, “Yes, there is a lot of fear and I have been getting messages from everywhere to be cautious. But here in California, there is nothing to fear. there are a few places that aren’t culturally diverse, where these problems occur. But I have told everyone to not conclude that all of America is unsafe.” 
 An IT employee, working in the US for the past five years, who didn’t want to be named said, “The US society is more polarised now after Trump’s victory. Rift between liberals and conservatives has widened. Fraternal nature of US society is lost, which has led to further divisions in society. But we are viewing it as a fringe incident, as such elements are everywhere in the world. Indians are enjoying a prominent position here. We are in all walks of the US society, and hope that nothing will happen to us in the future also.”
 
 
  
 The body of the city engineer Srinivas Kuchibhotla, who was killed in a Kansas bar by a gunman, was taken from his residence from Bachupali to the burial ground in Filmnagar on Tuesday morning. The father of Srinivas, Kuchibhotla Madhusudhana Rao was seen performing the rituals, while relatives tried to console  , his wife and mother Vardini.
 
  
 A prayer vigil was held in   to condemn the killing of Srinivas Kuchibhotla. The 32-year-old techie was killed in a shooting by a 51-year-old man at a bar. His friend Alok Madasani, who was injured in the shooting, also attended the march that saw hundreds of people take part in a show of solidarity. 
 
 
