Diya Aur Baati Hum actress  , who gave birth to a baby boy yesterday, has been taking it easy post her show's end and was busy shooting for her first web-series  .
 
  The first episode of her web-series is out and we can see the 'Diya aur Baati Hum' actress back in action once again. In this one too, she plays a daring wife, but the only difference with this role is that she is a stubborn housewife who is not happy with her husband and complains about everything.
  
  Her husband in played by  , who was the production in charge of shows like Bidaai and Tere Shehar Mein.
  
  The episode begins with Samir coming home tired after work, he rings the doorbell. When no one answers the doorbell, he opens it with the spare key only to find his wife (Deepika) sitting on a couch and enjoying a bowl of maggi. When asked for dinner, Deepika serves him food, but he is not too happy with it.
  
  Later, he calls his mother-in-law and puts the phone on speaker and the duo start accusing each other for all the problems between them. The conversation is hilarious and we just don't want it to stop.
  
  It is revealed in their conversation that the couple has filed for divorce and the six month extension is also over and the two decide to get over with their divorce the nextr day.
  
  Samir says that he will give her divorce on any condition tomorrow.
  
  The two then go to different rooms and start calling their friends, who speak ill about their spouses and promise to reach court on time. They suggest them to sign on the divorce papers the next day on any condition.
  
  
 
  
  The next day both of them meet at court along with their friends who start accusing the other party of something or the other. Both parties start fighting amongst each other in front of the registrar. They take the final decision and finally sign the divorce papers.
  
  Samir goes out with friends and starts drinking. He expresses his grief with everyone.
  
  He reaches home in a drunk state and sees his wife taking selfies in a pair of shorts and sleeveless top.
  
  
 
  
  
 
