DEHRADUN: Police here on Sunday arrested a 42-year-old man and charged him with killing his wife, two minor children and mother-in-law, who had all gone missing almost two years ago under mysterious circumstances.
 
  A former accountant in a private firm in Dehradun, Rajeev Singh was arrested from Chandigarh, where he was hiding since early 2015. His missing family had been a mystery for the police which had failed to locate them despite years of searching.
  
  “We had formed five special teams to work out the case. After months of hard work and visiting a number of states, we have finally arrested Rajiv Singh, who has admitted to killing his wife, two children and mother-in-law. The motive behind the murder is also clear now,” said senior superintendent of police (SSP) Dehradun, Sweety Agarwal.
  
  Singh, who used to stay at Sevla Kala on  , filed a missing person complaint at Patel Nagar police station on March 20, 2015, saying that his wife  , his 10-year-old daughter and two-year-old son and mother-in-law Mithilesh had been missing for the previous two days. During questioning, he then told the police that his wife and two children have committed suicide by jumping into the Ganga at Har Ki Pauri and later his mother-in-law also committed suicide in Haridwar after hearing about the death of her daughter.
  
  Singh then left a suicide note at his house and disappeared. The note, said officials, claimed he was ending his life because he could not bear the loss of his family.
  
  “We had recovered Singh’s phone from a place in  . After we could not trace anyone, the missing complaint was converted into a case of kidnapping,” said the SSP.
  
  The police team got hold of Singh’s Aadhaar card, PAN card and Voter ID card and had been monitoring whether any phone connection or bank account had been opened using them.
  
  “After checking with all nationalized and private banks, we found out that someone had opened a bank account in the branch of Bank of Baroda at sector 22 in Chandigarh. A police team was sent immediately to find out more details. On the basis of the address proof submitted in the bank, police found and arrested Singh,” Agarwal added.
  
  According to the police, Singh suspected his wife of cheating on him and also felt that he was unable to take care of them because he was not earning enough. They had three children, of who one, a son, is still alive because he was at his uncles’ house when the murders happened, officials added.
 
  Singh allegedly killed his wife in December 2014 by hitting her on the head with a hockey stick and threw her body into the jungle near Kolukhet on the way to Mussoorie. “He told police that a few days after killing Gitika, he took his two small children in his car and threw them into a canal in Manglaur in Haridwar as they were unable to live without their mother. The daughter was also mentally challenged,” said a police official.
  
  Singh also told the police that he killed his mother-in-law by throwing her into a canal in Roorkee as she was constantly troubling him by enquiring about the whereabouts of her daughter and grandchildren.
