MUMBAI: Local trains has the highest ridership with 46% of commuters using it daily in the city, according to the latest   of  , a forum of transport experts, on the use of   in the city. 

 Over 18% of the citizens were ferried by public transport buses while 5.8% travelled by taxis and 5% opted for autorickshaws for daily commute. Among those who preferred to use one or multiple modes of transport to travel daily from home to office and back, 46% also chose to walk a few kilometres en route. “This should be encouraged,” said A V Shenoy of the Samiti. He added that the report speaks about the way Mumbaikars commute by various modes of transport, analyses vehicles entering city through different entry points daily, and brings to the fore major transportation problems faced by rail and road users.
 
  and   comprises close to 2% of the city’s total commuters, the report added. Latest Metro statistics show that daily ridership increased to 3.6 lakh in 2017.
 
 “An analysis of traffic counts on the outer periphery (cordon) shows that 5.65 lakh vehicles enter or leave Mumbai daily. Major traffic handling corridors are Western Express Highway and Sion-Panvel Highway with 28% traffic/vehicle load shared by each, followed by Eastern Express Highway (20% load), Mulund-Airoli Bridge (13.5%), Lal Bahadur Shastri Road (11%) and Gorai Uttan Road (0.5%),” the report mentions and adds that the population of private cars had increased on these stretches leading to peak-hour traffic snarls at several locations. Traffic on Western Express Highway, especially on the Jogeshwari-Kandivli stretch, was a nightmare during peak hours.
 
 While agreeing that public transport needs to be given a push, Ashok Datar of Mumbai Environmental Social Network said, “Let us have an integrated approach. If we start the odd-even pilot project in Mumbai, nearly 40% cars will be off roads and the available road space can be used to demarcate bus lanes. We should initially restrict only to Western Express Highway in the morning southwards and in the evening northwards. It should be accompanied by kerb side bus lane. BEST should run 60-100 buses per hour of which one-third should be AC. A bus carries the load of eight cars and occupies less road space.”
 
 Experts pointed out that unlike trains and Metro, BEST did not have a “right of way.”
 
 “We need to provide solutions from the grassroots level, which is demarcating roads to create dedicated bus lanes. Once that is done, you can expect buses to arrive on time and with good frequency. The state and civic authorities should support/fund the BEST undertaking and ensure there are 1,000 new air-conditioned buses on roads for daily commute to dissuade citizens from using private vehicles,” they added.
 
 
