PUNE: The Kirloskar Vasundhara International Film Festival ( ) will offer a platform to chalk out a blueprint that includes solutions to revive the rivers flowing through Pune.

 The festival, with its theme Save River, Save Life, will hold a conference titled Muthakaran on January 9 and a workshop on Upper Bhima River Basin Restoration on January 11, the organizers said while addressing a news conference here on Wednesday.
 
 The conference will feature panellists, including environment experts, bureaucrats, people’s representatives, activists, media persons, fisherfolk and other stakeholders. “Along with the audience, the panel will brainstorm on various issues plaguing the city’s rivers. The objective is to provide policymakers with a blueprint to resolve problems engendered by lopsided development and steady depletion of Mutha’s environment health,” said Sachin Punekar of city-based Biospheres.
 
 The workshop, meanwhile, will talk about the need to connect the city’s population to the state of the river. “In the various cases and petitions before the National Green Tribunal (NGT) and courts pertaining to the rivers, one question comes forth — ‘Who owns the river?’. A common man assumes that the government owns it, but there are six to seven different departments and agencies that tend to different aspects of the rivers, as well as those citizens, who depend on the river’s water,” said Suneel Joshi of Jalbiradari, while explaining citizens’ role in the equation.
 
 Conservationists have voiced several concerns, including the state of encroachments such as the Metro line that has been planned along the river banks and the state of groundwater recharging from the catchment area as well as through the heavily concretized grounds of the city.
 
 Noted environmentalist Vikas Amte was also present during the news conference and spoke of various initiatives that his team had carried out for river and water conservation. The KVIFF will also award Amte the  .
 
 BOX 1_ Events planned
 
 KVIFF will address issues related to river restoration with over 70 events over seven days, including river walks on Mutha, Devnadi, Ramnadi, cycle rallies, and Sangrun river walk, which will culminate in the Nadi Sansad with 50 subject experts. Organizers aim to sensitize as many as 20,000 Pune residents through the event.
 
 BOX 2_ Human chain for cleanliness
 
 The   (ECI) on Wednesday announced that volunteers, students, as well film and theatre personalities from the city will form a two-km human chain on January 7. The 2,000-odd participants will form chain from Baba Bhide Bridge to Omkareshwar Ghat, with the aim of spreading awareness towards cleaning the river Mutha, said ECI secretary  . Five NGOs from the city will join hands for the event.
 
 
