NEW DELHI: As the halfway stage of   2017 rolled over, week four of the tournament (April 27-May 3) saw a stunning spike in form from a team that had threatened to unravel not so long ago. With three wins in a row,   transformed from a mid-rung team doing just enough to stay out of the lower half of the points table, to jumping to third on the leaderboard. 

 Channeling this exciting passage for the Pune-based franchise were an assortment of players:  , Rahul Tripathi and Manoj Tiwary with clutch innings, New Zealand tearaway Lockie Ferguson with one stunning display (4-1-7-2) before he was benched, Jaydev Unadkat with some fine death-overs bowling,   with seven wickets and Ben Stokes, who marked his return to the playing XI with a maiden T20 century, 103 not out off 63 balls to deliver a final-over win over Gujarat Lions. 
 
 But if you were to look at RPS' success and what has been a constant to each of their three wins over the past seven days, one man stands out - Tahir. 
 
 The top-ranked bowler in T20Is, South Africa's Tahir is second only to   (21) with 17 wickets in IPL 2017. In the past week, as RPS won three out of three, his bowling has fetched him seven wickets at an economy rate of 6.75. Of Tahir's seven wickets, five have been proper batsmen. 
 
 During the 61-run win over Royal Challengers Bangalore, Tahir ran through the lower order with the scalps of  , Adam Milne and Samuel Badree as the visitors crashed to 96 all out. In those four overs, he bowled 12 dot balls - which is two full overs of deliveries not scored off. 
 
 Against Gujarat Lions, who were beaten with one ball left, Tahir's figures were 3/27 in four overs, his wickets being Ishan Kishan, Aaron Finch and   as the opposition slipped from 55 without loss in 5.5 overs to 94/4 after ten. 
 
 Most recently against heavyweight Kolkata Knight Riders at Eden Gardens, Tahir managed only one wicket but it was a big one: the dangerous Yusuf Pathan, hit flush in line with the stumps for 4 off 16 balls. He should have had a second wicket, but   parried the ball over the boundary for six instead. 
 
 Tahir's rocking-baby celebrations and frenzied, uncoordinated runs around the ground after taking wickets have made for fun viewing to spectators, but it his legspin which has proved immensely valuable to a franchise who've gone from downbeat to genuine title contenders.
 
