KOLKATA:   took the first life in Kolkata this year on Friday. A 56-year-old man died in   in Alipore, less than a week after another   last Saturday.

 While deceased Arup Haldar was from Kolkata, the other two swine flu victims this year were from Nadia’s Kalyani and Taherpur, respectively.
 
 Haldar was brought to Woodlands on Wednesday. According to hospital sources, he was critical by the time he was wheeled in. Along with shortness of breath, Haldar was admitted with bouts of vomiting, loose motions and coughing.
 
 “The patient was a diabetic and was on insulin. His condition kept deteriorating and he was put on ventilation and haemodialysis support within hours of admission,” said a source in Woodlands.
 
 Suspecting it to be a case of H1N1, the hospital sent his swab samples and it tested positive. Further investigations revealed evidence of pneumonia, sepsis and multi-organ failure.
 
 “We put in our best efforts to save the patient. Unfortunately, he died within 48 hours of admission,” the source said.
 
 H1N1 already claimed two lives in April. Four-year-old Soham Ghosh became the first victim, staying admitted in AMRI Hospital Mukundapur for about three weeks before passing away.
 
 The second death, a week later, was of a Kalyani resident. Homemaker Sima Ghosh, who died at AMRI Hospital, Salt Lake, on April 29, was referred from a local nursing home in a serious condition on April 17. 
 
 Virologists and doctors warn that those vulnerable to the infection should take extreme precaution. The virus is highly contagious and attacks people with certain health conditions more aggressively. 
 
 If the virus infects a healthy adult, the infection mostly is not noticeable as the symptoms are like those of no-rmal influenza.
 
 According to doctors, diabetics are among the most susceptible. Others vulnerable to the virus include people with chronic ailments of heart, lungs, kidneys, immuno-compromised people like cancer patients on chemotherapy, the elderly, children and pregnant. 
 
 Doctors said the vaccine against H1N1 is available and those who fall into the vulnerable category should take the shot once a year.
 
 
