HOWRAH: The police in Uluberia are baffled by the fact that  's business facilitator Rajat Chowdhury preferred to walk nearly two and a half kilometre to end his life under the wheels of a train despite severe injuries in his left leg, when the tracks pass barely 400 metres from his bank where he parked his bike. 

 Ever since Chowdhury's mutilated body was recovered from the tracks on Friday evening, his family has been challenging claims that he committed suicide. His relatives maintain that Chowdhury's movements were severely impaired and he could not walk more than 200 metres.
 
 Chowdhury was accused by a businessman of converting Rs 100 currency notes to Rs 1,000 and Rs 500 ones before depositing them into his current account. It was later came to light that Chowdhury was not authorised to handle cash. Businessman   has claimed that branch manager   deputed Chowdhury to collect cash from him to deposit into the account. He also claimed that Chowdhury later confessed to his crime in a written statement.
 
 The police, meanwhile, said that neither Dutta nor the businessman are co-operating with the investigators. "We will have to take necessary steps if they continue in this manner," said Sumit Kumar, SP (Rural), Howrah. 
 
 "We had served notices on Dutta and the branch cashier Raju Pramanik on Tuesday, asking them to meet us on Wednesday. They didn't turn up. We went to the bank, but they weren't there. On calling up Dutta, we came to know that the two went to the bank's regional office on Wednesday. They promised to meet us on Thursday in the presence of a lawyer," said Subhrajyoti Majumdar, OC, Uluberia police station. 
 
 Union Bank of India officials said they have initiated a departmental probe to fix responsibility and that all the branch staff were under scrutiny to determine if anyone was culpable of unscrupulous behaviour. A spokesperson also claimed that the bank was cooperating with the police and had sent necessary documents to facilitate the investigation.
 
 The police, meanwhile, went through some CCTV footage from the bank branch. This was from Friday, hours before Chowdhury was found dead. According to the SP, the footage showed a stressed out Chowdhury speaking to Dutta but this is of little significance. 
 
 "What we require is the footage from November 9 to December 30, 2016. We have already sent a requisition to the regional office and they have got permission from the  . We hope to receive the uncut footage after Thursday. We have received all the vouchers and are examining them," Kumar said. 
 
 Acting on a complaint from Chowdhury's family, the police have brought in a handwriting expert to study his purported confessional statement. Other experts are going through his mobile phone to find out whether Chowdhury actually posted the suicide note on Facebook.
 
