BHOPAL: University teams of Amravati, Delhi, Surat and Meerut have secured their place in the semi-finals of the   cricket tournament being organised here.

 Semi-final matches will be played on Tuesday. In the first match played at BU ground, SGB University, Amravati, batted first after winning the toss against Madras University. Capitalising the opportunity of setting the target, Amravati scored 266 runs in the allotted 50-over quota for the loss of eight wickets. Pawan was the highest scorer with 61 runs, while Sai Raj contributed 60 runs to the total. Replying the total,   failed to score with the asking run-rate, as the wickets fell in regular intervals. Their struggle was such that the team could not play the allotted quota of 50 overs. Madras was all out for 174 runs in 41 overs. Amravati won the match by 92 runs.
 
 The second match on the same venue was played between Utkal University, Bhubaneswar, and Vir Narmada South University, Surat. In the low scoring match, Surat packed the innings of Utkal University for 73 runs only. Surat reached the target after losing 6 wickets. Teams of   and Purvanchal, Jaunpur, played their match at All Saint’s ground. After winning the toss, Delhi team invited Purvanchal to bat first. However, Purvanchal team could not stand against the disciplined bowling attack of Delhi, as the former were bundled out for 127 runs in 33 overs. Chasing the total, Delhi lost four wickets to win the match. Meerut University won the match against Hindusthan University by four wickets. Meerut achieved the target of 143 runs after losing 6 wickets in 38 overs. Earlier, chairman, MP Private Universities Regulatory Commission, AK Pandey, inaugurated the tournament. Director sports, BU, Akhilesh Sharma, tournament observer, Deepak Mehta, and others were present.
 
 BU to contact universities
 
 Organising committee of the tournament has decided to contact cricket playing universities to locate the untraceable Rohinton Cup. “We will not sit idle. We are trying our best to locate the cup,” said director sports, BU, Akhilesh Sharma. The running trophy of the tournament is not traceable for past couple of years. BU wants to give the same cup to the winner’s team to maintain the tradition that has been followed for past 80 years.
 
 
