LUCKNOW: The one-upmanship for Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar’s legacy between the   and the Mayawati-led   will be at play on the 126th birth anniversary of the Dalit icon on Friday. Mayawati will fly down to Lucknow to address a gathering of her party cadre at Ambedkar memorial, while chief minister Adityanath will visit Ambedkar Mahasabha to pay homage to the father of Indian constitution.

 The two events will be separated by an hour—Mayawati will visit Ambedkar memorial at 9am, while Adityanath will go to Ambedkar Mahasabha at 10am. Governor Ram Naik will accompany Yogi to the Mahasabha office where Ambedkar’s ashes have been kept.
 
 BJP government in UP has also chosen the day to sign the ambitious 24x7 Power For All scheme of the Centre. The MoU will be signed by the chief minister in the presence of Union power minister Piyush Goyal. BJP’s week-long campaign to popularise the BHIM application, a digital payment gateway named after Ambedkar will also culminate on Friday. UP government has directed all government schools to hold sessions for students on the life of Ambedkar.
 
 BJP will organise seminars on ‘Contribution of Ambedkar to nationalism’ in all divisional headquarters of the state. Sources said the party was planning to organise ‘Sahbhoj’, a feasting with members of Dalit community in 1,400 blocks of the state. BJP state general secretary, Vijay Bahadur Pathak said, “`We will call it ‘Samajik Samrasta Diwas’ to promote social equality.” 
 
 The   leadership, however, said, “BJP is responsible for atrocities on Dalits in Gujarat and Hyderabad and its ‘Dalit prem’ (love for Dalits) is driven by a political agenda.” BSP state president Ram Achal Rajbhar said the party will continue to follow the ideals of Ambedkar.
 
 Political experts said the BJP going into an overdrive to woo Dalits is not unfounded, especially after an overwhelming victory in UP. “BP seems to be snatching the Ambedkar legacy from Mayawati,” said political expert J P Shukla, adding that BJP leadership understands Dalits sided with the party in a big way during UP assembly elections. “It will surely consolidate the Dalit vote bank,” he said.
 
 
