BHUBANESWAR: Locals of the Bankuala village in the city staged a   on Saturday, demanding the immediate arrest of those involved in the murder of a man from the locality. 

 Forty-two-year-old Bankuala Village-resident Susant Kumar Nayak was murdered on Friday. 
 
 The agitators blocked the road near the Bankuala Bridge for an hour in protest. They also demanded that a compensation of Rs 10 lakh be paid to the kin of the deceased. The crowd agreed to clear the road after police assured them that due action will be taken. Saheed Nagar police station inspector, Kishore Chandra Mund, said the police have arrested two persons, Balia Pradhan and Kanha Pradhan, in connection with the murder. "We are investigating to find more about the involvement of others," said Mund. 
 
 The brother of the deceased, Santosh Kumar Nayak, alleged that Susant was beaten to death by four people of his locality. "Police have arrested only two people. We demand the arrest of others involved immediately," Santosh said. 
 
 "My brother had gone to a shop for a cup of tea when the shop's owner and his relatives attacked him brother with iron rods and wooden planks over a disagreement regarding the upcoming elections," he added.
 
 The incident has evoked sharp reactions from the political parties. BJP state vice-president, Samir Mohanty, said it showed the highhandedness of BJD supporters. It is not known whether Susant was aligned in any way with the BJP. "Susant was killed by supporters of the BJD," he said.
 
 "The BJD has started creating fear psychosis among voters to win the rural polls. Violence has become a vital weapon of BJD to grab power. If crimes take place only a few kilometres away from Naveen Niwas and the Secretariat, how are free and fair polls to be expected?" added Mohanty.
 
 BJD general secretary and Barabati-Cuttack  , however, said the murder is not related to the upcoming rural election. "No information has been received regarding poll-related violence in the murder case. It should not be politicised. Police are conducting their investigation. Wherever poll-related violence occurs in the state, the police take action according to the guidelines of the State  ," said Samantaray. 
 
 
