NEW DELHI: In an experimental start, inert waste from the  , or material that is no longer chemically or biologically reactive, will be used in road building. However, since this is an unknown construction material, the agencies involved, including the National Highways Authority of India, the contractors and even the  , want to be indemnified against failure.

 Under press of the  , everyone from the Delhi lieutenant governor and the municipal corporation chiefs to NHAU are keen to see waste from the capital’s landfills being productively used and thus cut down the dangers to life and health posed by ever-mounting garbage heaps. TOI has learnt that CRRI has reported that 65-75% of the inert material, separated from the accumulated waste, could be used for building embankments of a highway.
 
 “Though the study indicated feasibility of segregated municipal solid waste (MSW) for embankment construction, the construction of an experimental test track, instrumentation and performance monitoring for a minimum period of two years is needed to arrive at conclusion before recommending large scale field application,” the report said. It added that safety measures had to be taken while using the material for building roads while adhering to the guidelines of the  .
 
 “CRRI has given a positive report based on testing done on a 200-tonne sample collected from three different locations at the Ghazipur landfill site,” said an NHAI official. However, as officials admitted, knowing well that the segregated material should have been used to build a test stretch, the researchers were in a hurry for work to start due to   pressure. A former director general of the road transport ministry said the inert material can indeed be used for building embankments. “But,” he added, “it would have been better if such material was tried on a 2-3km stretch to assess the performance before using the waste on a large scale. Such an experiment could have been completed by now.
 
 The former official also emphasised that the agency certifying that the material was safe for use had to stand by its findings. But in the hurry due to NGT directing that officials would be held personally responsible for failure to execute the waste-road building project, the onus has fallen on NHAI and CRRI. “While this entire mess is a failure of the municipalities, the burden of the mismanagement is now on NHAI. Ideally, the ‘polluter pays’ principle should have been applied here,” said a Central government official.
 
 Wary of the repercussions, NHAI wrote some time ago to the road transport and highways ministry that its officers and the contractors who will use the inert waste for the highways must be protected from punitive action if the experiment failed. Sources said indemnifying contractors was essential since they would be bound to use the specific material during construction and could not, therefore, be held responsible for any failure.
 
 “However, we have to make a beginning after taking precautions,” agreed an NHAI official. “If we succeed in getting the desired result, it will help solve the urban garbage problem.” NHAI has earmarked Rs 219 crore and invited bids for excavation, segregation and processing of the municipal solid waste, to be completed in two years. The highways ministry has sanctioned only Rs 50 crore for this work.
 
 
