HYDERABAD: When   (DJ)   kicked off his first India concert in the city by playing `Work Hard, Play Hard' song, his fans started grooving with binge drinking at  ,   on Saturday night.

 As the curtains came down on the   with Guetta's popular `Without You' song, little did the music aficionados know what was in store for them.Traffic police armed with breathalysers were waiting outside to nab drunk drivers.
 
 In an hour-long drive against drunken driving near the Hitex entrance (Charminar structure), about 50 concertgoers were caught drunk driving. With hundreds of vehicles exiting the premises, the Cyberabad police had to randomly stop around 150 vehicles. Nearly 50 were caught, many narrowly missed by a point or two from the threshold of blood alcohol content (BAC) of 30 mg100 ml.
 
 The decision to arrange a checkpoint was done keeping in view the December 31 Bengaluru incident, wherein rogue elements sexually assaulted several women. The picket was set up so that motorists do not indulge in rash driving and hooliganism. A large number of law and order policemen were also deployed at the venue as the state government took the event as a prestige issue after Bengaluru and Mumbai cancelled DJ's concerts citing law and order issues.
 
 “A state government minister gave specific instructions to the top guns of Telangana police, who in turn communicated to the Cyberabad police that there should be no scope for any untoward incident as it will dent the city's image. The event organisers were directly in touch with the minister, who was very particular to host the event in Hyderabad,'' a senior Telangana police officer told the TOI.
 
 “A motorist, when made to take the breathalyser test, threw up an astounding 228 mg100ml (norm being 30mg100 ml). Generally, in Madhapur, the highest recorded has been around 150 mg100 ml. Of the motorists caught driving in an inebriated condition, three were women,'' Madhapur inspector T Narsing Rao told TOI.
 
 On the same day, there was another cultural event at BPM venue at Gachibowli, where 25 motorists were caught for drunk driving. According to him, on a normal day at a checkpoint, about 1020 members will be caught between 8 pm and 11 pm.
 
