NOIDA: N P Singh was re-elected as FONRWA president for the fifth time in a row in the elections held on Sunday.

 The election was held on Sunday morning and the counting of votes continued till late evening. Two teams, led by N P Singh and Sukhdev Sharma, president of Rajat Vihar RWA, Sector 62, vied for the posts of FONRWA president, general secretary, vice presidents and other members.
 
 Singh, who bagged 91 votes and defeated Sharma by 13 votes, has been FONRWA president since 2006. 
 
 Meanwhile, Singh’s team member A N Dhawan was re-elected as general secretary, bagging 87 votes and defeating   from Sharma’s team by 7 votes. Two votes for general secretary were cancelled.
 
 The two groups contested the elections and fielded 21 panellists for the executive committee members. Of the 175 votes registered, 169 votes were polled in the election from 10am till 1.30 pm for the seat of president, general secretary, four senior vice-presidents, four vice-presidents, four secretaries, four joint secretaries, one secretary (legal), one treasurer and one joint treasurer.
 
 N P Singh’s panel bagged the seats of president, general secretary, four senior vice-presidents, three vice-presidents, one secretary and two joint secretaries. The panel also claimed the positionbs of legal secretary and treasurer. Meanwhile, the seats of joint treasurer, two joint secretaries, three secretaries and one vice-president were bagged by Sharm’s panel. Sector 108 RWA president Vimlesh Sharma, the only woman candidate in the elections, lost the seat of senior vice-president to Vijay Bhati from Singh’s panel.
 
 N P Singh said that he was happy that the people of Noida again elected him and his team. “We have done a lot of work for Noida.Now, we will ensure that Noida becomes a truly global city,” he said. General Secretary A N Dhawan won the election second time for the same post. “The mandate proves that the people of Noida are with us. We will fight for people’s right more aggressively,” he said.
 
 Sukhdev Sharma said that he would introspect the reasons for the defeat. “I have received information that some voters were poached by the rival candidate. But I accept the mandate,” Sharma told TOI over phone.
 
