KOZHIKODE: A key Indian Mujahideen (IM) operative was on Wednesday handed over to the Gujarat police, a day after his arrest at the Karipur International Airport here.

 Shuhaib Pottanikkal, wanted in the July 2008   that killed more than 50 people, was arrested after his deportation from Dubai on Tuesday.
 
 Investigation agencies here were considering the arrest a major breakthrough, since he could provide leads on other wanted terrorists, including C A M Basheer and Riyaz Bharkal. Shuhaib had been living in Dubai for the past nine years.
 
 Born in 1968 to Abdul Khader Pottanikkal and Fathima of Kodinhi in Malappuram district, Shuhaib and was an activist of the now banned Students Islamic Movement of India.
 
 Sources said Shuhaib was in a Dubai jail after his passport (F 8012606) had expired in 2016. An emergency certificate issued by the Indian authorities enabled his deportation, sources said.
 
 Various agencies interrogated him here before handing the man over to the Gujarat police.
 
 Shuhaib became a person of interest after E T Sainudheen alias  , arrested in 2009 in connection with several bomb blasts in the country, named him in his confessional statement.
 
 “We had issued a lookout circular for Shuhaib, the eighth accused in a case pertaining to the finding of pipe bombs from Koomankallu in Malappuram district in 1995,” said a police officer.
 
 Sainudheen, a co-accused in the case, reportedly told the police that Shuhaib had financially helped him to set up an electrical shop at Kondotty.
 
 In December 2007, Shuhaib asked Sainudheen to meet a person at Kuttippuram. Sainudheen received the man at the railway station and later recognized him as  , the co-founder of the IM.
 
 Riyaz wanted Sainudheen, an expert in electronics, to devise integrated chips to be used as timers in bombs. Riyaz said that the IM wanted to avenge the killing of Muslims during the 2002 Gujarat riots.
 
 Sainudheen, it was alleged, handed over the timer devices to Riyaz. It was suspected that the timers were used in the Ahmedabad blasts.
 
 “Shuhaib is a senior leader of the IM, almost in the same rank of Riyaz Bhatkal. He was the link between the Gulf-based senior IM leaders and the foot soldiers in Kerala” said the police officer.
 
