HOSHANGABAD: Madhya Pradesh government, Union ministers, top BJP leaders and RSS functionaries joined the party workers at Bandrabhan in Hoshangabad district on Friday, to bid a tearful adieu to the ‘son of Narmada’ and Union environment minister  . The last rites of Dave, who died in Delhi on Thursday, were performed by Dave’s younger brother, Abhay Dave on the banks of the river in Vedic tradition as desired by the late leader.

 Chief minister  , and several Union ministers including  , Dr Harsh Vardhan, Narendra Singh Tomar, Thawar Chand Gehlot and   were among those present at the cremation.
 
 State government made all arrangements for the last rites of Dave on the banks of Narmada. A stream of mourners started pouring in at the site from early morning to bid farewell to the beloved ‘son of  ,’ who had relentlessly strived for the conservation of ‘Narmada’.
 
 Union minister of science and technology, Dr Harsh Vardhan read out a message sent by Prime Minister  . The message read, “Dave’s contribution will be remembered for ages in the future. He was an environmentalist, good administrator and an ideal swayamsewak.”
 
 Vinay Sahasrabuddhe, BJP national vice-president and in-charge of MP state affairs, read out a message by RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat.
 
 “I am still not able to believe that he is no more. It is a loss which will never be filled. He always supported me,” said Union minister for water resources Uma Bharti. She said people marked his birthday on July 6 by planting sapling as mark of respect to the man, whose mission was to serve Narmada.
 
 Bandrabhan is the place where Dave had initiated international river festival meet every two years. The theme of the last International River Festival was ‘River, its Catchment Area, Chemicals and Crisis’. 
 
 “It is an irreparable loss. His contribution to the society and party is invaluable. We will continue his efforts by saving the environment and rivers,” said Chouhan. Chouhan added, that several crores saplings will be planted along the banks of Narmada on July 2. He said that the river festival would not be stopped, and would be held every two years. 
 
 Union minister Anant Kumar remembered Dave as an expert strategist. “He efforts will be remembered for a long time,” he said.
 
 A priest recited Nirvana Shatkam, a composition written by Adi Shankaracharya. BJP state president, Nandkumar Singh Chauhan said, “Anil Dave used to listen Nirvana Shatkam regularly.” 
 
 
