BENGALURU: With caste and cash calculations threatening to go awry in the run-up to the 2018 assembly polls, Karnataka chief minister   and the Congress party in the state seem to have hit upon a strategy centred around Kannada and   to take on  .

 At least, that's the inference that is being drawn in the state's political circles given dozen odd pro-Kannada announcements that   has made in the last five months – the latest being the decision to design a separate flag for Karnataka. From making Kannada a compulsory subject __ including in ICSE and CBSE __ schools to announcing 5% reservation for Kannada-medium students in state civil services to getting government hospital patient cards printed in Kannada, Siddaramaiah is using Kannada as a tool to wring sympathy from the people and checkmate the BJP which is playing the nationalism card. 
 
 Siddaramaiah’s energetic manipulation of the linguistic card is beginning to make the political race more dramatic. A political commentator said: “The biggest challenge after consolidating Ahinda (an acronym for Dalits, backward classes and minorities) votes is to woo the dominant Vokkaliga and Lingayat communities. Siddaramaiah has realized that the common thread for these communities is Kannada and he is playing the Kannada card to woo these communities.” This is precisely why theSiddaramaiah government decided to rush with the Kempe Gowda Jayanthi celebrations on June 27 as the Bengaluru founder is symbolic of Kannada pride.
 
 Harping on the   is nothing new for Siddaramaiah, who headed the Kannada Watchdog Committee now called   in 1983.
 
 Political trackers maintained that there has been a radical shift in Siddaramaiah’s strategy on the Kannada turf as he feels that promoting and protecting parochial interests could be a political game-changer. Moreover, if PM Narendra Modi can invoke the Gujarati pride to win polls, Congress activists feel there is no harm in Siddaramaiah working on the Kannadiga pride.He drove the message into the bureaucracy first by announcing: “All officers working in Karnataka should learn Kannada and officiate in Kannada. We will not tolerate any official who is against Kannada and against the interests of Kannadigas.” This warning from Siddaramaiah, which came in the backdrop of an IAS officer’s refusal to see a file in Kannada, won him appreciation from state’s rural population (61.33% of the total).
 
 ``It might touch an emotional chord as those in the villages speak Kannada. But it is unlikely to become a vote bank issue,’’ said Kannada university vice-chancellor Mallika Ganti.
 
 However, unlike in the past, Siddaramaiah is now playing the Kannada card with dexterous diplomacy. A pointer to this is the recent controversy over Hindi signages in Metro stations.He allowed for the protests to happen; the defaced signboards in a couple of stations stay but the CM chose not to go overboard and did not seek their removal altogether. The reason being a majority of the districts in north Karnataka speak Hindi apart from Kannada.
 
