NAGPUR: Vidarbha Sahitya Sangh granth sahawas inaugurated its three-day programme,  , to commemorate   on its premises on Monday. However, the purpose for which the programme has been organized was defeated to an extent as students failed to turn up in large numbers.

 A book exhibition comprising novels written on great personalities has been organized, along with a slew of inspiring lectures, till January 11.
 
 The exhibition was inaugurated by Padmashree Tambekar, president of Rashtriya Vachnalaya in Sadar, along with swami Jyoti Swarupanand. Writer and Bengali scholar Savita Ogiral gave a talk on Maa Sharda Devi. She focused on Swami Vivekanada and Sharda Devi’s son-mother relationship, Vivekanda’s respect for her and how she was a different mother than the rest.
 
 Talking about the idea of organizing the event, coordinator Dilip Mhaisalkar said, “When the pulse of a reader matches the pulse of a book, the experience is extraordinarily personal. If we can help making that match, we will succeed in our mission.”
 
 Acknowledging the low turnout of students at the programme, Mhaisalkar said, “The institution tried its best to invite students. I hope inquisitive and curious minds come and make most of the event.”
 
 The mega discussion on ‘great personalities and their relevance for today’s youth’ saw invitees choosing one personality to deliver a ten-minute talk. Director of grantha sahawas, Arundhati Vaidya, initiated the event by speaking on Samarth Ramdas. The invitees spoke on Veer Savarkar, Baliram Hedgewar, BR Ambedkar, Dr APJ Kalam, Balgangadhar Tilak, Dr Punjab Rao Deshmukh, MK Gandhi and Swami Vivekananda.
 
 It was followed by official inauguration of the programme at the hands of educator Rupashree Anup Sable. “I have many expectations from the ambitious youth of this generation in terms of leveraging technological changes for one’s growth,” she said.
 
 On December 10, senior writer associated with Padmagandha Pratishthan Shubhangi Bhadbhade and lecturer Ashutosh Adoni will speak on Swami Vivekananda. Theatre artistes Sarika and Sanjay Pendse will talk about their cultural journey. On the concluding day, journalist Shripad Kothe and Rotarian Jyotsna Pandit will deliver a lecture. Uma Vaid, principal of   in Ramtek, will deliver a lecture on ‘India and youth’s challenges.’
 
 Setting an example
 
 Chief guest for Urjaswal 2017, Rupashree Anup Sable from Pune, runs one of the city’s well-known preschools. A former engineer, she quit her profession to start a day care based on experiential-based methods. She runs a franchise for Helen O’Grady International, which focuses on holistic development of child by teaching concepts through acting and drama. She also trains teachers
 
 
