It has taken  , a 64-yearold  , 24 years to get an   for the   the government acquired for the construction of  . A district court recently asked the government to revise the package by 2.25 times, with an addition of 15 per cent interest since 1993, when the land was acquired. Ganbote now stands to get somewhere around Rs 40 lakh, in sharp contrast to Rs 61,200 he had received way back in 1993.

 Ironically, while this decision has paved the way for several other land owners from the area to take up a similar fight, Ganbote is far from pleased, for had he kept the land, it would have been worth around Rs 4 crore today.
 
 The developer was in his 40s back in 1991, when he received the notice for acquisition of his land parcel. “I had just acquired the land for Rs 2 lakh. The area was on the outskirts of Pune and on the Bangalore highway. Since it was away from   (PMC) limits, it made perfect sense back then to build a godown and give it on rent. It was my first-ever real estate acquisition,” said Ganbote, who owns several residential, hospitality and commercial ventures today.
 
 The government wanted to take over his land to build a stadium which was to host the National Games in 1994 and also to promote sports in Pune. “I had no option but to give it up. My only request to the collector’s office was a fair compensation. What they gave me then was peanuts even for that time,” he said. He was granted a sum of Rs 61,200 in 1993, way lower than what he had originally paid to buy it. Unhappy with this government’s decision, he approached district court in July 1993, seeking an enhanced package.
 
 On April 21, 2017, ad-hoc district judge SS Gulhane ordered that Ganbote be paid at revised rates. The judge observed that Ganbote was paid at agricultural land rates, whereas since the area was fast developing he should have been paid at commercial rates prevailing them. The judge fixed the new rate 2.25 times higher than what Ganbote was paid earlier. Moreover, the court also asked the government to pay 30 per cent solatium and interest. So, now, from 1991 to 1993, the government has to pay 9 per cent interest, 12 per cent from 1993 to 1994 and 15 per cent from 1994. The court has ordered that Ganbote get 15 per cent interest from 1994 till the day he finally gets his money. Going by rough calculations, his renewed package would work out to Rs 40 lakh today.
 
 Ganbote points out that the gate of Balewadi stadium stands on his land parcel. “Had I continued to hold the land it would have been worth Rs 4 crore today. I could have simply built a commercial structure and earned a decent rent from it. That annual rent would have been more than what I have been given now,” he said. He was however quick to add that he is relieved by the court’s decision. As he said, “The litigation went on for 24 years. Frankly, I just wanted it to end. I am not ready to call this a victory yet. While the court has just passed the order at the moment, it still remains to be seen how and when I get the money from the government. I will consider it a win only when I do land up getting that entire sum from the government.”
 
 
 ¦ Had I continued to hold the land, it would’ve been worth Rs 4 crore today. I could’ve simply built a commercial structure and earned a decent rent — more than what I have been given now
 
 — Prabhakar Ganbote
 
