LUCKNOW: Prime Minister Narendra Modi's constituency Varanasi will now have to wait longer to ride the Metro. And, pushing it back is the Centre, with its new metro rail policy ­ that sets a number of conditions before a metro project can get Central approval ­ calling for major changes in the detailed project report (DPR) prepared by the UP government. The   has now returned the DPR to the state urban development department for amendments in accordance with the new policy. The new policy was passed by the Union cabinet on August 16.

 The new policy has also put five other metro projects in UP on hold -Kanpur, Agra, Meerut, Allahabad and Gorakhpur, who's DPRs have also been sent back. UP chief minister  , while inaugurating the Lucknow Metro earlier this month, had declared creation of a UP Metro Rail Corporation to build all the six Metros in the state. The first phase of the Lucknow Metro got the Centre's nod when the Union cabinet cleared it in December 2015.
 
 The DPR for Varanasi Metro was ready with the state government by February 2016 and sent to the Centre for approval in May, ahead of the Assembly polls in UP. E. Sreedharan, who has been the principal advisor to the Lucknow Metro project, told TOI that there are certain conditions in the policy that are not friendly for the upcoming metros in the country as the policy favours public private partnership (PPP) in metro rail pro jects to enable property development and commercial activities to cover the cost.
 
 “The basic objective of a Metro is to keep fares affordable. This would result in slow return on investment. If private parties come into play, they would need faster returns and hence it would be difficult to keep the public transport affordable. I am not in favour of the new  . Though they say it is to promote innovative funding and improve efficiency, the involvement may not be of much help,“ said Sreedharan. Till date, most Metros have been completed through public fund ing and are running successfully over the years with least financial burden on the public. There are two other clauses that would affect timely completion and commercial viability of these projects. One is getting ap proval from a third party apart from the   and Centre. Second, Metros would have to issue corporate bonds to make the venture profitable, he added.
 
 Sreedharan argues that Centre has not clarified as to who this `third party' will be and incorporating another round of approval will only delay the projects further.
 
 
 
 
 The Centre will lay down norms and guidelines of the new Metro Policy on Saturday in Delhi. Officials from state governments which aim to bring Metro in their states will meet in Delhi to understand the guidelines of the policy.
 
