TRICHY: The implementation of the   (Protection of Livelihood and Regulation of Street Vending) Act has hit yet another roadblock with the Madras   staying the city corporation’s move to conduct election to elect a town vending committee.

 The act calls for streamlining of street vendors by creating specific vending zones in the city. The vendors now occupy roadside spaces in congested commercial hubs in the city. While a 15-member committee will identify vending zones in the city, the committee will have six of its member representing the street vendors.
 
 A section of street vendors had approached the high court, seeking directions to the corporation to conduct election only after issuing identity cards to all the street vendors. 
 
 The city corporation has identified 1,999 street vendors across the city, but identity cards have been issued to only 600 street vendors. Vendors are fearful of being left out and losing their livelihood. 
 
 “Street vendors from only five wards have been identified as street vendors, leaving out those from the rest of the wards, including Srirangam,” said district treasurer of Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) S Manikandan, adding that identity cards have been issued to those in the NSB Road, Teppakulam. Street vendors in Srirangam, Ponmalai, Thiruvanaikaval have not been taken into consideration, he said.
 
 According to civic body officials, roughly 3,500 street vendors are spread across the city, mostly in the NSB road, Chatram and Central bus stand. Among them, a total 1999 street vendors have been enumerated so far by the city corporation.
 
 “While street vendors from across the city have to vote in the election, only 500-600 of them have been given identity cards which rules out others from exercising their rights,” said  , another vendor from NSB road. 
 
 He demanded that elections should happen when street vendors from all the wards have been identified and issued identity cards. “Only then livelihood of the street vendors will be unaffected and the pedestrians will have their   space in the commercial areas of the city,” he said.
 
 A senior official from the city corporation said that vendors will be registered even after the formation of vendor committee. “However, the vendors refused to believe the civic body and approached the court. We are now in the process of issuing identity cards to all the vendors after which the committee would be formed,” he said.
 
