BENGALURU: Despite assurances by both the   (BMRC) and Bengaluru development minister K J George that the north-south Metro line - connecting Nagasandra and Yelachenahalli in JP Nagar - would be ready for operations by April 15, the chances of the deadline being met now appear slim. 

  After flagging off two trains for a trial run at the KR Market station on Friday, George expressed hope of the line being commissioned for full-scale operations in April. "Work on the line is almost complete. But the safety certification process has not been completed yet. It may take 10 to 15 days more than expected," the minister said. 
 
  The line also contains an underground stretch running between Sampige Road and National College. Of the two trains that George flagged off at the KR Market station, one was bound for  , while the other headed towards Sampige Road. 
 
  George carried out an inspection of the KR Market underground station, and expressed his satisfaction with the pace at which the work was progressing. 
 
  BMRC managing director Pradeep Singh Kharola said, "Among others, work on track laying, stock rolling, signaling system has been completed. We will request the commissioner for Metro railway safety (CMRS) once the trial run is complete." 
 
  A series of other test procedures, including multiple train test and anti-collision test are scheduled to be completed only by April 20, and the CMRS is likely to be extended an invitation to inspect the line only in the last week of April. Factoring all the delays, it's unlikely for operations to begin completely on the line before mid-May. 
 
  Once work on the 13km-stretch between Sampige Road and Yelachenahalli is complete, the 24km north-south line will be commissioned for operations, besides signaling the completion of Phase 1 of the   project. George said that passenger traffic would go up to 5 lakh, from the current 4 lakh on the Metro. 
 
  "Three more bogies will be added to the trains, and one bogie will be reserved for women. Orders have been placed for these coaches with  ," he added. 
 
  Queried about the proposed Metro link to KIA, George said, "Three alternative routes starting from Jalahalli, Boodigere and Nagavara are being considered. Chief minister Siddaramaiah will take the final call after the Nanjangud and Gundlupet bypolls." 
 
 
