PUNE: Soon, you will be able to refuel your vehicle without having to worry about tampered meters and ‘chips’ in dispensing units. 

 Oil marketing   will install self-destructive, magnetic pulsers in   at petrol pumps within the next six months to make it impossible to rig dispensers. As the name suggests, any attempt to tamper with the pulsers will cause them to self-destruct, blanking out the display on dispensing units.
 
 Lately, the police and authorities have conducted a series of raids on pumps suspected of installing remote-controlled electronic chips in   dispensers. As part of the raids, three pumps in Pune have been sealed so far.
 
 At this point, the companies are working towards nipping the problem in the bud, by replacing normal ‘pulsars’ with ‘self-destructive, potted, magnetic’ pulsers at all petrol pumps in the district, oil marketing company (OMC) sources said.
 
 “Apart from automating the remaining petrol pumps, which can also help check malpractices at pumps to some extent, the self-destructive pulsers will be fit into the dispenser nozzles. Although automation can help monitor fuel dispensing activity, it cannot do much when miscreants manipulate the pulsers. However,   with the self-destructive pulsers will damage them beyond repair,” said an OMC source.
 
 Investigations by the Thane police had earlier revealed that some petrol pump owners implanted an electronic chip into the pulser in the fuel dispensing machine, which led to lesser amount of fuel than what was displayed on the machine being dispensed. Sources said that the self-destructive pulser technology will cost OMC’s around Rs1.5 lakh per pump in Pune.
 
 Officials from the weights and measures department meanwhile raided another petrol pump in Khed on Tuesday, and sent the suspected pulser for a lab test.
 
 Meanwhile, the All India Petrol Dealers Association has suggested that OMCs seal the metering units at pumps and hold dealers responsible if the seals are broken by anyone but the company.
 
 
