MEERUT: Failing to recover money after a bumper harvest,   across   are demanding that the government provide them with a   (MSP) for their produce.

  Claiming that it costs farmers around Rs 7 per kg to grow potatoes, the farmers are demanding a support price of Rs 10 per kg.
 
  The demand from Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU), Bhartiya Kisan Andolan (BKA) and Kisan Shakti Sangh (KSS) comes in the wake of reports that farmers are throwing away their produce after failing to get even the input costs.
 
  “We are not even getting enough to provide for the cost of growing potatoes and carrying it to the mandi. We are paying out of our own pocket,” said Kuldeep Tyagi of the BKA.
 
  Earlier, in March, the West Bengal government announced a support price of Rs 4.60/kg for potatoes and promised to buy 28,000 tonnes of potatoes, after the state faced a similar situation.
 
  The BJP Kisan Morcha actively campaigned for the provision of a support price in West Bengal. It has, however, so far, refrained from a similar campaign in UP.
 
  “The situation is same in UP. Farmers are only getting about Rs 200 per sack for potatoes. While his expenditure on cultivation, transportation and cold storage is much more. So, the farmer is in fact suffering losses. The state must announce a support price on potatoes, just like West Bengal. Farmers have been suffering and the government has not bothered to do anything,” said Rakesh Tikait, BKU president.
 
  “When we include all costs involved in production, the total cost comes to Rs 7 per kg. The farmer is getting only Rs 3-4 kg in the market. So, there is a huge discrepancy. The government should announce a support price of atleast Rs 10 per kg”, said Pushpendra Singh, President of the KSS.
 
  Farmers are also disappointed that while the BJP’s Kisan Morcha raised the same issue in West Bengal, it has failed to do so in UP, where it is in power. “Politics supersedes everything it seems. It is an issue for the BJP in West Bengal, but not so in UP because they are in power themselves”, said Kuldeep Tyagi of the BKA.
 
  The BJP’s Kisan Morcha on its part assured the farmers that the issue will be raised soon, and they too will demand a support price for potatoes. “We agree that there should be a support price. We will raise the demand soon with the newly formed government”, said Naresh Sirohi, General Secretary of the BJP Kisan Morcha.
