DEHRADUN: With the BJP coming to power in Uttarakhand, a   is likely in the state bureaucracy and the police department. 

 Prior to the implementation of the  , a number of changes were made in the   and sources claimed that those regarded close to the   were given key postings. However, the situation is likely to change within a few weeks of the oath taking ceremony by the  
 
  In his speech at Dehradun during the election campaign, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had said that Uttarakhand had fallen into a deep pit and it required two engines (a veiled reference to BJP governments at the Centre and state) to bring it out and usher along on the path of progress. Going by the strong views of the PM, sources did not rule out the possibility of officers from the Centre being sent to Uttarakhand on deputation. They said that some key bureaucratic positions in the chief minister's office could go to such officers. 
 
  Political expert Jay Singh Rawat told TOI, "The BJP contested the elections on the plank of providing a corruption-free government which would be dedicated towards developing the state in all sectors. Therefore, it will be imperative for the party to ensure that officers - both bureaucrats and police officers - with a clean image are posted at key positions." He, however, did not fail to mention that it was a routine affair for any political party which came to power to make admini- strative changes. 
 
  According to Rawat, there were some officers who held plum postings under the Congress regime. "There are a number of officers who have been holding key positions for the last many years, and they may be on the BJP radar," he said, adding the next few weeks could see a string of transfers and postings in the Himalayan state. 
 
  A source pointed out that during the poll campaign the BJP had been targeting the Congress on the issue of corruption, therefore changes in the administrative setup were inevitable. 
 
  "Slowly but surely changes would be made in the state bureaucracy and also in all 13 districts. The BJP will strongly monitor those officers who have avoided postings in the hills. It may take a week or two for the BJP government to prepare a list before new postings and transfers are announced," he added. 
 
 
