Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) animal shelter will be functioning without any NGOs for the time being. Out of the two animal welfare organizations that were supposed to manage the shelter, one has withdrawn while the other’s contract will most likely get terminated by NMC. The decision was taken following numerous complaints of animal activists, who recently took to social media to highlight the pitiable conditions of animals kept at the shelter situated in Bhandewadi. According to them, lack of proper medical facilities was resulting in several deaths of sick and injured dogs. When TOI’s lensman visited the shelter on Friday, he saw many dead dogs strewed over the shelter premises. Some NMC workers were seen cleaning the area. Sources at the spot informed that in the last few months, many dogs died due to lack of treatment. “Apart from this, some were attacked by ferocious, probably rabid dogs, which were dumped by NMC in the Bhandewadi dumping ground,” they said. NMC veterinary officer Dr Gajendra Mahalle said that a full-time veterinary doctor has been appointed at the shelter. “A doctor, who is working in NMC on contractual basis, has been given the charge of the shelter,” he added. In July 2015, NMC’s health department had floated an Expression of Interest (EOI) following which local NGOs People For Animals (PFA) and Indian Society for Animal-Human Welfare (iSAW) had signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) for managing the shelter last year. The two organizations had mutually divided the work -PFA was to attend to the rescue calls of sick and injured ambulance through its 24X7 helpline number while iSAW was responsible for ensuring regular treatment for the animals.  Since then, the shelter has been in a miserable condition. Protesting against this, a group of animal activists had submitted a memorandum to mayor Nanda Jichkar three days back. Following this, NMC issued termination notice to iSAW, asking it to file a reply within three days. “As the organization has failed to reply in the allotted time frame, we are terminating its contract. PFA has already withdrawn from its duties,” officials said. In the fresh EOI floated by the health department for sterilization of strays, one of the mandatory conditions is treating the animals. “We will be setting-up around five centres in the city. The organizations will have to treat sick and injured strays, sterilize them and release them after proper post-operative care,” said Mahalle. It is not clear what the civic body plans to do at the Bhandewadi shelter. In April this year, it had revised its master plan for the shelter following suggestions of Union women and child development minister and chairperson of People For Animals (PFA) Maneka Gandhi. NMC had proposed a master plan costing around Rs7 crore. 