The agitation by farmers of   at Jantar Mantar in New Delhi has attracted the attention of political parties, public and farmer’s bodies across the country. The distress of farmers is real and deserves attention. But appeasing farmers may not solve the several fundamental problems that ail the state’s agriculture — problems which require major structural reforms and not just band-aid solutions.

 While the shortage of water owing to a lack of large perennial rivers is a major problem in the state, another deficiency is the fragmentation of land holdings. The average area of landholding in TN is around two acres, which in turn is insufficient for profit-oriented agriculture. Farmers abandon such lands, leaving them fallow or sell them at distress prices.
 
 Villages today suffer from unremunerative agriculture also due to the shortage of young male labour. Mathew Morell, director general of International Rice Research Institute, Manila recently said agriculture in India was mostly manned by people aged above 50. Most of them are not literate in remunerative farming practices. 
 
 TN’s agricultural growth rate has declined considerably since the green revolution (mid 1960s). The average annual rate of growth of foodgrain in TN has been just 1.67% compared to 11.13% of Punjab and the all India average of 4.4%. 
 
 Benefits like waiver of farm loans, reduction in crop loan interest, increase in food, power subsidies and subsidy on agri-machinery dished out by state governments have also not helped in improving the situation. In 2006-2007, the state announced the waiver of cooperative bank farm loans to the tune of `6866 crore. When the cooperative banks levied 7% interest on farm loans in 2007-2008, the state government over a span of four years helped reduce the interest rate from 5% to 0% on prompt repayments. Market support price was also progressively increased for sugarcane through state advised prices. Despite the measure, TN slipped as a large producer of sugarcane in recent years. The sugar production of the state which was 25L tonnes five years ago dropped to 11L tonnes this year.
 
 The state has also been extending support for crop insurance and subsidies on agri machineries and drip irrigation. Yet, farming continues to be in distress and the contribution of agriculture has been steadily declining, and at present accounts for 8% of the state’s GDP (against 14% for the nation). 
 
 There is thus the need for a major reform in the agriculture sector. Chief among these is to agglomerate small land holdings without alienating ownership and violating land ceiling laws. This will allow farmers to use technology and farm mechanization for better productivity. States like Punjab and Rajasthan have already implemented this. 
 
 Organisations like the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) offer a wide range of information and support services that help in mapping land for soil conditions and water. TN universities and colleges with the help of such organisations can train undergraduates to interpret such data for farmers.
 
 Horticulture can also be taken up as a remunerative form of agriculture. There are progressive banana farmers like A K Karuppaiah of Farm Fresh, who have reaped the benefits of research findings on tissue culture. In less than five years they have revolutionised production of banana in the state, making TN the number one producer of banana. 
 
 With land prices in the state so high, TN cannot survive by producing low yield/low priced crops on traditional practices. The alternative lies in attempting quantum jumps in yields with high quality seeds and effective linkages to the market.
 
 The state should make a paradigm shift from the existing practices and move away from water intensive crops like sugarcane and rice to floriculture, horticulture and oil seed production.
 
 (The writer is the editor of Industrial Economist)
 
