MUMBAI: India’s largest retailer   has reassigned roles of its top executives and roped in a new marketing head to push critical businesses especially consumer and supply chain as part of a wider strategy to more than treble its revenues to Rs 75,000-1lakh crore by 2021.
 
  Under the new structure, Devendra Chawla, president for its food and FMCG business, will be made the chief executive of Future Consumer while PV Seshadri, COO of its logistics business will be elevated as Future Supply Chain's CEO.
  
  Grey India's ex-CEO, Jishnu Sen, has also been roped in as head of marketing for Future Retail and will report to Sadashiv Nayak, CEO,  .
  
  "We started this process with vertical advisor in the form of Milind Sarwate. We are looking at a growth of nearly 100%. There are more appointments coming on the consumer business side," said  , group CEO, Future Group.
  
  Chawla, a Harvard graduate, has worked with Asian Paints and Coca-Cola before joining Future Group in early 2009 to develop private brands that now contribute a significant chunk to overall business.
  
  FCL, Future Group’s consumer packaged goods unit, plans to launch a new brand, category or product every two weeks to have its own labels account for 70% of the products sold in group retail chains such as Big Bazaar and Easyday and has been taking them outside of their own outlets too.
  
  Jishnu has more than 25 years of experience across sectors and has built strategies for brands such as Pepsi,  , Ferrero and Colgate-Palmolive.
  
  In a mail sent to Future Group employees on Saturday, Biyani said Future Supply Chain would play an important role in helping their business achieve the group's vision 2021. Seshadri has been with Future Group for more than a decade and earlier worked with Grasim Industries, Bombay Dyeing, Welspun and   earlier.
  
  The company has opened a distribution centre in West Bengal and is investing Rs 80 crores to set up a sorting unit in Nagpur which can manage up to 30 core garments.
  
  Future Consumer, that sells 27 brands under 65 categories, recently entered into a JV with Hain Celestial to manufacture and sell food products in the health and wellness space in India. The firm also has an equal joint venture with Mibelle A. G., a division of Migros Group, Switzerland, and makes a range of personal care products under the brand Swiss Tempelle. They had introduced Kosh, an oats-based brand that is produced at a manufacturing unit set up in Sri Lanka through a joint venture with SVA India Limited. 
