NAGPUR: Complaints seem to be on the decline as literally no complainants showed up at the 100th divisional level   of Nagpur mofussil area of the department of posts held at its   office on Friday. But, some citizens said that lack of information was the reason behind the poor response.

 The Dak Adalat was held to resolve long pending grievances of postal transactions. A similar pattern was witnessed in previous edition also. The office has not received any complaint since September 2016. However, some citizens said that lack of awareness about this platform to get their problems resolved could be the reason behind the office getting less number of complaints.
 
 The matter is regularly looked after through various mediums like online portals and the ones which are not solved can be forwarded to Dak Adalat where a satisfactory negotiation between both parties is done after investigation and discussion.
 
 Dak Adalat is organized every three months and citizens can seek solution through registration in advance, said superintendent Chandrakant  .
 
 “Unsettled issues relating to mail, Speed Post, counter services, savings bank, non-payment of money orders within the jurisdiction of Nagpur mofussil division i.e. districts like Nagpur (except Nagpur city), Bhandara and Gondia are entertained here,” Godde said. 
 
 He said, “After the case is registered under Dak Adalat, we check the records and coordinate with other institutional bodies like banks and private organizations to come up with the best solutions to compensate the loss of customers.” 
 
 However, businessman Abhishek Kabra has a different story to tell, contrary to the claims made by the postal department. His Speed Post parcel was lost on its way from Nagpur to Secunderabad in May for which he got no concrete reply from the post office.
 
 After enquiry, he was offered a compensation of mere Rs 200 as against his parcel worth Rs 12,000. He was told that only the booking charge could be refunded as his delivery item was not ‘insured’.
 
 Diwakar Tiwari, a private employee said, “I feel that post offices should charge for insurance on every Speed Post parcel because they cannot reimburse the total amount. They should make people aware of this concept and hear our pleas and suggestions through Dak Adalat for overall improvement of the system.”
 
