NAGPUR: In 2014, the heady Marathi film Kapus Kondyachi Goshta was released. It was based on true story of a brave woman from an agricultural family who, after death of her father, did not give in to the circumstances. She took to farming in order to provide for her family and for weddings of her younger sisters.

 Apart from the numerous national and international awards and acclaim this movie garnered, it also brought a positive and unexpected change for Sunanda Kolatkar, the woman on whom it was based. Hemant Jadhav from   district in western  , impressed by the story, left his joint family to search for Sunanda and sought to marry her. The couple got married on April 27 in   and the producer-director duo were invited to the wedding to perform ‘kanyadaan’.
 
 In the movie, the plot shows how Kolatkar, who lives with her two sisters in   village near Kalmeshwar, is forced to give up own marriage after her father’s death. She did not know anything about farming at the time, but by observing others, she slowly but steadily learns the skills. She builds her own house and becomes a victim of physical abuse too.
 
 A lawyer tries to guide her and her sisters but is stopped by his wife. “In such circumstances, it would have been easier for Kolatkar to drink pesticide and end her own life. In this land of cotton growers, the heart-rending farmer's suicides are a continuing tragedy. The village had abandoned her, yet she faced her situation with a strong heart and took care of her younger sisters and got them married. This positivity made me want to make a movie on her,” said director Mrunalini Bhosale. 
 
 “Sunanda remained busy with her agricultural activities. This boy tried to find her and could locate her after two months. He found her village and started pursuing her. Ultimately she agreed to marry him. This makes for another film story,” laughs producer Nitin Bhosale, adding that daughters of farmers find it diffult to get a groom, but the movie had tried to bring respect to agriculture.
 
 Sharing her excitement, Kolatkar admitted that she had no intentions to get married. “After the movie was released, a lot of people came searching for me. But that was it. Hemant tried to convince me to marry him for six months. Only when I was sure he was the kind of person I would like to live with, I agreed. We are very happy and it feels as if this is a blessing from God,” she said.
 
 Hemant, 36, formerly worked in an automobile parts-making company, but now will move into Sunanda’s house and together they plan to work on the farm and undertake related activities. He was unavailable for comment.
 
 Kolatkar’s success story had first appeared in the agricultural magazine Baliraja four years ago. “After reading the story, we got several calls asking us to do a documentary and we went ahead,” said Bhosale.
 
 
