NEW  : She may be restricted to a wheelchair, but she is first off the block in   municipal ward. On Thursday, as soon as Swaraj India party announced her candidacy from the ward, she hit the pockmarked roads of Babarpur. A bright yellow party bandana crowning her head, an equally bright smile lighting up her determined face, her palms joined in a gesture of humble request, she asked Chitra Sharma, “I need your vote, will you support me?” Sharma nodded her assent.

 Suvarna Raj, the 35-year-old candidate of Yogendra Yadav’s new party, has one thing going for her as she flirts with politics for the first time in her life. She is a popular figure and her neighbours in the ward — the voters — are aware of her sporting triumphs, all achieved after surmounting physical limitations. She challenges Rekha Vashist of Congress for a seat in the East Delhi Municipal Corporation. Vashist, the sitting councillor, asserted, “I have done a lot for the people here. They will re-elect me.” But Raj remained undaunted, knowing that she has in the past stretched herself beyond her normal capacity.
 
 As she wound through the lanes, attracting the curiosity of the young and old alike, she brightly offered, “God did not give me legs, but he has given me strength.” 
 
 She was three years old when she lost the use of her limbs to polio. But that did not squash her ambition. 
 
 As an athlete, she built on the gold medal she won in the National Abilympics to garner two medals in the Thailand Para Table Tennis Open in 2013.
 
  In China the same year, she won another medal at the Asian Table Tennis Regional Championship for the specially abled. 
 
 “I have mobilised an army of differently-abled people. They are helping me in electioneering and strategic planning,” she said. Among them is her polio-afflicted husband Pradeep. Suvarna works as the project officer of the Association for Disabled People and is also the general secretary of the National Network of Women with Disability, and it isn’t surprising that specially-abled groups are crowd-funding her campaign.
 
 The Balbir Nagar resident cast her eyes over the overflowing drains and the poor roads and asserted, “I have decided to change these.” 
 
 She has developed close friendship with local tutors, members of the Bhajan Mandali and shopkeepers, and she is leaning on their shoulders. Deepa Goyal, a tutor, declared, “I will convince my students to motivate their parents to vote for Raj.”
 
 Another fan, Ranjan Bansal, said he had never seen her without a smile on her face. Alongside the support of people like Bansal, the more practical Pradeep has made a few other calculations. 
 
 “Babarpur is a Brahmin-dominated ward, and our rivals are likely to be Brahmins,” he reckoned. “The Brahmin votes will split and we should gain.” Babarpur has around 55,000 voters, mostly from eastern UP. Raj and her husband are both migrants from UP and will leverage this for ballots.
 
 Babarpur is represented in the Delhi assembly by minister Gopal Rai. He will do his utmost for AAP’s victory in what is traditionally a BJP stronghold. Where does that leave a newbie from a new party? 
 
 “I have defeated disability, I will defeat them also,” the wheelchair-bound candidate said fiercely. 
 
 
