LUCKNOW:   lovers who find delight in   and can’t resist the charms of   may soon savour the goodness of both in a single fruit. The   has developed a hybrid of Lucknow’s Dussehri and Chausa varieties, which it says is a perfect mix of both. Named CISH-M-2, the hybrid ripens at the end of the Dussehri cycle and just before Chausa hits the market. It is shaped like the ‘mother’ Dussehri but the taste is a blend of both, the institute said.

 The hybrid will now be tested in other labs of the country to assess its commercial viability. CISH said the hybrid’s shelf life is comparable to Dussehri and it is easy to grow without any specific culture or precautions, they said. The institute has also crossed Dussehri with Florida’s Tommy Atkins mango and the fruit it bore had low sugar content and red tinge on the skin while retaining the shape of Dussehri. Another cross between Neelam and Tommy Atkins matures when the mango season ends.
 
 These hybrids are among 6,000 varieties CISH has developed in 33 years of its mango hybridisation programme. These include mangoes with exotic names like Eldon, Bride of Russia and Sensation, which resulted from crossing varieties from Brazil with those from Lucknow and Varanasi, such as Dussehri, Chausa and Langda. After rigorous evaluation, the institute has been able to release two varieties for farmers to grow. Ambika is a hybrid of Amrapali (from Lucknow) and Janardan Pasand (from the south), and Arunika, a cross between Amrapali and Vanraj (from Gujarat), are grown by farmers and are being sold at premium prices. Both varieties can adapt to different climatic conditions in the country. The focus of the programme is on regular varieties with reddish peel, suiting the preference of the export market, hence the crossing of local mangoes such as Neelam, Vanaraj and Janardhan Pasand with mangoes from Brazil and US. One of the hybrids has a paper-thin stone.
 
 “Some of these hybrids are high on beta carotenoids (pro vitamin A) and leupol in the pulp while some others are about 15% sweeter than the sweetest Dussehri,” said CISH director Shailendra Rajan.
 
 Strangely, one of the most popular and highly exported variety, Alphonso, finds no place in the programme. “Hybrids of Alphonso as male or female parent are not successful in the north, given its poor yield and moderate quality in this climate. In Lucknow, Alphonso is a shy bearer and matures late during rainy season and is not as attractive as the Ratnagiri Alphonso either,” said Rajan.
 
 The product is heavier when Langda, Chausa, Kensington and Bombay Green as female parents are crossed with Rumani, Totapuri, Eldon and Vanraj. Similarly, hybrids of Surkh Burma and Tommy Atkins and Eldon, Vanraj and Tommy Atkins and Eldon and Vanraj have red peel like no other. Mango hybrids take more than two decades to reach the market because tonnes of the fruit are required for developing a variety that is feasible.
 
