MYSURU: The district administration celebrated the 68th   with enthusiasm and patriotism.  , mother of a martyr, was felicitated on the occasion.

 District minister   hoisted the national flag and took salute from the march past contingents of police, armed forces and NCC at   ground here on Thursday.
 
 Addressing the gathering, Mahadevappa said that Dr BR Ambedkar has given an excellent Constitution in the world, and it encourages change, advocates peace and ensures national unity. “But still, the country is moving at a snail’s pace towards its goals, especially in education, social and economic sectors,” he said, adding: “All citizens should introspect and make use of the rights given in the Constitution and remove illiteracy, economic inequality, untouchability and other social evils from society. We should unitedly work towards India’s development.”
 
 Meanwhile, 30 troupes, including those from KSRP, DAR, police from Narashima, Devaraja and KR divisions, railway police, traffic and women police, Home Guards, fire service, the NCC wings of Army, Navy and Air Force, students of Navodaya School, Police Public School, Scouts & Guides, Bharat Seva Dal and police band, participated in the parade.
 
 Mahadevappa felicitated Sarvamangala, the mother of martyr sepoy Mahesh P N, who died in an avalanche in Siachen in Jammu & Kashmir on February 10, 2016.
 
 Mahesh, a native of HD Kote taluk, joined the armed forces in the Madras Regiment on October 10, 2005. He had served the 19th battalion post in North Glacier post on ‘Operation Meghadoot’ in the border areas. The district administration, having recognized Mahesh’s service and contribution to the country, honoured his mother.
 
 Mahadevappa also presented Sarvothama Seva Award-2017 to food and civil supplies department senior deputy director K Rameshwarappa, Hinkal Government Ayurveda Hospital health officer (Ayush) Dr Sunitha, ZP midday meal executive officer Uday Kumar, Periyapatna tahsildar H R Lingaraju, KR Hospital first-division assistant D Anand and HD Kote assistant agriculture officer Ravikumar for their service. 
 
 Internal security division ASI Lakshmi Sitaram was feted for winning the Rastrapathi Seva Award. 
 
 Despite a ban on plastic flags by the district administration, some children and parents were seen waving them at the venue.
 
 Meanwhile, Tibetans living in Bylakuppe near   border celebrated too the national festival. Students of CSTCVP, a Tibetan school in Bylakuppe, celebrated the event with fervour after their principal A K Sundriyal unfurled the tricolour. The principal explained the significance of Republic Day.
 
