JAIPUR: The Union ministry of environment and forests is in the process of finalizing the   (ESZ) around Mt Abu Wildlife Sanctuary. A draft notification of April last year showed some sections of the ESZ as 0-km area. Following this, Ahmedabad-based Rustom Cama raised the red flag and was invited to attend a meeting of the MoEF on February 27 to finalize the ESZ. “A 1-km area around the sanctuary is now being proposed. This is better than 0 km, but still does not serve the purpose. The wildlife corridor extends southwards to   and a properly planned ESZ could save what is at present a quite pristine region. This is a forest area and home to sloth bear, leopard, striped hyena, jungle cat, fox, pangolins and porcupine besides birds and nearly 500 species of plants,” he told TOI.

 Meanwhile, on February 2, the MoEF released a draft notification for the ESZ around the Jessore Wildlife Sanctuary in Gujarat, less than 10km to the south of Mt Abu. This draft is now open for public objections. “The northern limit of the Jessore sanctuary is actually the border of Gujarat and Rajasthan. Although the text of the notification shows a 4-km ESZ, at present, the ESZ is 0 to the north. So,   has to make provision for it,” Cama said.
 
 He has been advocating a continuous corridor between the two sanctuaries as isolating them would slowly reduce the population of migratory species. In his letter to the secretary, MoEF, Cama said, “The two sanctuaries are connected by a spine of small hills, government-owned forests, streams and rivers.” However, construction of luxury resorts has begun in recent years very close to the boundary of the Mt Abu Wildlife Sanctuary. On Cama’s complaints, officials visited the sites of resorts   and   to check the legal status of these projects. “Although one of these is still to be constructed, the environmental damage is evident,” Cama said.
 
 Delhi-based former   (IFS) officer and wildlife enthusiast Manoj Mishra said, “It’s true, the map in the Jessore notification does not provide for an ESZ towards the north. It is up to Rajasthan to make that provision.”
 
 Rajasthan chief wildlife warden GV Reddy said, “The MoEF will invite us to participate in the process and we will see what needs to be done.”
 
