AHMEDABAD: Was it a perfect crime? Many would ask that question, as nearly three years have passed after  , 35, wife of Dr   of Gandhinagar was murdered in her home, but Gujarat police remains clueless even after questioning a 100 people. Left with no other option, cops have now announced a reward of Rs15,000 for providing any lead to the gruesome murder that had rattled locals at the time.

 The case was transferred from local police to CID crime and a Special Investigation Team (SIT) was formed in July 2016 to probe the case. “We have interrogated more than 100 people. Conducted Suspect Detection Test (SDS) on her husband and two other suspects from MP. But it’s a dead end,” said   of CID crime. Rashmi was killed by an unknown person or persons in her home, on February 22, 2013, when her husband was at his clinic in Gandhinagar, Sector-7, and her two sons were at school.
 
 “When Dr Bhave reached home on the sixth floor of Radhe Residency at around 2 pm, after picking up his two sons from school, he noticed that the front door was latched from outside. On entering, he found Rashmi’s body lying in a pool of blood between the drawing room and kitchen,” added ACP Tank.
 
 Police officials said that Rashmi could have been murdered by a person known to her or the family, as they didn’t find any marks of forced entry on the main door. “Nothing was stolen from the flat. Moreover we found a glass of water in the kitchen, which indicated that the assailant or assailants could have been known to Rashmi or her family,” said a police official. CID crime officials said that during the probe they had conducted several scientific tests -- including one on her husband and on two persons from Indore, MP, based on some messages found from Rashmi’s cellphone and social media account.
 
 “However, none of the suspects were traced near the place of crime on the day of the incident. Rashmi’s murder had created a panic among locals at the time. It was a sensational murder and needs to be cracked,” ACP Tank said.
 
