MANGALURU: After farmers in Maharashtra, actors   and   now have   in their sights. They will reach out to 400 families of slain army and paramilitary personnel through their Pune based  . The next of kin of such personnel will receive Rs 2.5 lakh each and the foundation will expend Rs 10 crore on this project this year, actor Vishwanath ‘Nana’ Patekar announced here on Sunday.

 Rajiv Savant, trustee and confidant of the Prahaar hero told TOI that NAAM foundation has approached the ministry of defence (MoD) seeking details of personnel who have laid down their lives in the line of duty. “We have mobilised funds needed and the process of handing over the solatium to the families will start once the MoD gives us the list,” he said adding the Foundation salutes the bravery shown by the soldiers in guarding India’s border at all times.
 
 Making the announcement at a volunteers meet organised by Ramakrishna Mission to mark the completion of 200 out of 400 missions planned for a Swachh Mangaluru campaign under PM Narendra Modi’s Swachh Bharat Abhiyan, Nana Patekar said Indian Army, CRPF, BSF, ITBP and other paramilitary forces have suffered 400-odd casualties during 2016. “It is ironic that most of us do not even know their sacrifices in the security interest of nation,” he said.
 
 Recalling his recent visit to Samba sector in Jammu, Nana Patekar said the hardships that these soldiers in the prime of their youth face to defend India from external aggression have to be seen to be believed. A 4x6 feet icy blanket in the Siachen or a small fox hole in their bunkers is their bed and window to the world. It just takes a burst from across the border to snuff their lives; he said adding it is this work of helping their families which gives him utmost satisfaction.
 
 About reaching out to 220 widows of farmers in Marathwada, Vidarbha, the first major task that the Foundation undertook, the actor said the Rs 6 crore that was raised to help them came from the nameless, faceless ‘rich’ of India. The 580-kms of excavation of water bodies and other watershed development activities taken up in the two regions have been executed at a cost of Rs 12.5 crore and this has been achieved mainly due to people’s participation, he averred.
 
