 in a democracy means protection of rights and freedoms of an individual to enable him to achieve his full potential. It also means free and healthy exchange of views and ideas on a national platform, both by famous and unknown individuals.

 Hugh Hefner must have been a liberal. He innovatively used right to freedom of expression to publish the iconic ‘Playboy’ magazine in the 1950s, blowing the prevailing prudishness to smithereens by boldly displaying nude pictures of celebrity women to privately charm men of all ages.
 
 Playboy’s popularity is palpable half-a-century later even in India, where many sport the magazine’s logo on their cars to draw some kind of inspiration from Hefner.
 
 Many patronised the magazine, which would have been termed as sleaze in India in the 1950s. It would still be. But right to   and expression is all about giving protection to individuals to allow them to express their views without fear. That is what Sherlyn Chopra, the first Indian woman to pose nude for Playboy, did when she said, “The cover shoot was one of the most liberating experiences of my life. No one looked at me as an object, but as a spiritual being in a beautiful, exotic body.” She is entitled to her view. So are those who bought a copy of the magazine featuring her, and viewed her pictures differently. What is important in a democracy is that there should not be a violent clash between the two — liberals and conservatives.
 
 There is a thin line dividing Asaram Bapu and Gurmeet   Singh on one hand and Hefner on the other. While Hefner paid handsomely to make liberated women trust photographers to capture the ‘spiritual architecture’ of their bodies, Ram Rahim and Asaram used spirituality to abuse women disciples.
 
 Over decades, the contours of free speech have changed. But a streak of commonality has historically remained constant among fanatics and ultra-liberals. Both mercilessly target individuals or groups who do not subscribe to their ideas. The government, which is constitutionally mandated to protect free speech, often becomes the added threat to free speech, apart from fanatics and liberal vigilantes.
 
 Nearly a century ago, American philosopher, psychologist and educational reformer John Dewey had articulated this threat to free speech, “They (all three we presume) believe in freedom of thought and communication as long as it repeats their own conviction, but only under this condition.”
 
 Imagine Ram Rahim getting acquitted of rape charges like Mahmood Farooqui by a high court. The judge in the imaginary scenario of acquitting Ram Rahim would have been condemned vociferously by the liberals as an obscurantist who harmed the cause of gender justice, and rightly so.
 
 In Farooqui’s case, except Indira Jaising, none of the liberals questioned how a judge could conceptualise feebleness of a ‘no’ and conceive it as yes on the part of the woman to acquit him of rape charges.
 
 We also did not hear liberals exercising free speech to criticise a similar judgment from another HC granting bail to three convicted students of Jindal Global Law University on the ground of the rape survivor’s ‘promiscuity’.
 
 Selective exercise of right to free speech by a section of ultra-liberals has puzzled many, as much as the selective use of free speech by fanatics to run down and hound the liberals. Another example of Dewey’s theory came up when the Centre filed its affidavit in the Supreme Court standing by its decision to deport   migrants.
 
 ATV journalist used Twitter to fault the reporting on the Centre’s affidavit, saying the government view on Rohingyas was ‘exaggerated’ and that journalists had acted as ‘stenographers’. Unfortunately, the TV journalist had no objection to ‘stenographic’ reporting of the PIL, which had challenged the Centre’s decision and sought a direction for settling Rohingyas in India. Is the ‘stenographer’ jibe in aid of or in affront to free speech? Take for example the continuous inflow of Bangladeshi migrants to Assam since 1970.
 
 Liberals and their militant tribe say Assam and the Union government must accommodate them in the state. That view is part of their free speech and must be respected.
 
 At the same time, one must equally respect the free speech of people of Assam who feel that massive influx of Bangladeshis over the last five decades has incurably altered the demographic composition and threatened their carefully preserved culture. It is difficult to determine right or wrong when two conflicting groups exercise their rights to free speech. Should such sensitive debates manifest into targeting of others through exercise of right to free speech? In Saxena vs the Chief Justice of India [(1996) 5 SCC 216], the   had said, “If maintenance of democracy is the foundation for free speech, society equally is entitled to regulate freedom of speech or expression by democratic action. The reason is obvious — society accepts free speech and expression and also puts limits on the right of the majority.
 
 “There is a correlative duty not to interfere with the liberty of others. Each is entitled to dignity of person and of reputation.
 
 Nobody has a right to denigrate others' right to person or reputation. Therefore, freedom of speech and expression is tolerated so long as it is not malicious or libellous, so that all attempts to foster and ensure orderly and peaceful public discussion or public good should result from free speech in the marketplace. If such speech or expression was untrue and as reckless as to its truth, the speaker or the author does not get protection of the constitutional right.”
 
 
