NEW DELHI: Two months after the Narendra Modi government took charge in May 2014, the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) called a meeting to discuss the possibility of   advancing its revival by two years and subsequently going in for a stake sale.
 
  “During the meeting, pointed questions were raised on advancing Air India’s profitability target to FY19 from FY21and a plan to divest stakes in the national carrier after it turns around,” said a senior Air India official, who did not want to be identified.
  
  Three years later, despite some improvements, the state-owned carrier continues to struggle financially and is unlikely to achieve its target of making a net profit in FY19.
  
  That’s despite lower fuel prices and higher passenger numbers. Accumulated debt stands at Rs 46,000 crore and in April the airline took loans to pay salaries to its 16,000 employees.
  
  The management under chairman and managing director Ashwani Lohani has sought another round of debt restructuring to reduce its annual interest outgo ofRs 4,000 crore to help with its revival.
  
  “I am committed to making the airline profitable on a year-on-year basis, but some debt restructuring needs to be done,” Lohani had told ET earlier. Air India, which is now ranked fourth in market share, lags behind its competitors on key operational parameters.
  
  
 
  
  Directorate General of Civil Aviation data on operational performance for March shows that Air India’s planes were 74.6% full, while second-ranked Jet’s planes were 79.8% full. Air India’s on-time performance was a percentage point lower than that of  . The national carrier’s domestic market share is more than four percentage points lower, while both offer almost the same capacity in the market.   is No. 1 by market share and   is ranked at three.
  
  
 
  The previous   government had planned to revive Air India and make it profitable, sanctioning an infusion of Rs 30,231 crore as equity over a nine-year period beginning FY13. It had also formed a committee to monitor its financial and operational performance at regular intervals.
  
  Air India did show some signs of improvement by reporting operational profit of Rs 105 crore in FY16, primarily on the back of lower fuel prices, but it appears to have missed its target of registering operational profit of Rs 300 crore in FY17. Earnings for last year will be announced in September.
  
  “We may not be able to achieve it because of higher oil prices, which have not just impacted us but all other airlines in the country,” said a senior Air India official, who also did not want to be identified.
  
  
 
  
  Industry insiders said the operating profit in FY16 stemmed from the higher revenue of subsidiaries and not on account of Air India’s performance alone. The top line saw contributions of Rs 350 crore from low-fare overseas carrier Air India Express and Rs 62 crore from ground-handling unit Air India Transport Services (AITSL).
  
  “Though AI had delivered operating profits in FY16, it was largely due to revenues earned from its subsidiaries — AI Express and AI Transport Services (AITSL),” said Kapil Kaul, CEO of Centre for Asia Pacific Aviation (CAPA) in India. The government has continued with the annual equity infusion — in all about Rs 27,000 crore has been pumped in since 2012.
  
  Analysts said a turnaround can’t take place under government control. “Air India is nothing more than a cronies-filling-jobs programme — it has gotten so bloated, that successive governments simply do not know what to do to turn it around other than to throw good money after bad,” said Saj Ahmad, chief analyst, Strategic Aero Research, a London-based consultancy. “And if they think that that is the cure, then the government is very much mistaken.”
  
  Despite an employee-aircraft ratio of over 100 per plane, the airline is rehiring retired staff and has also sought government approval for increasing the retirement age to 60 from 58. The retirement age at other government companies is 60.
  
  In the first six months of the 2016 calendar year, the national carrier rehired more than 75% of cabin crew members. Of the 238 rehired, 81were cabin crew, 50 were in engineering and 90 in ground handling.
  
  In the past, Lohani has said that Air India cannot be run as professionally as a private airline due to the constraints of being a government company.
  
  “Hiring professionals in Air India is not easy but we need to hire young professionals in our company,” Lohani had told ET earlier. He also pointed to the number of vigilance cases that have piled up against staff.
  
  
 
  Outsiders and insiders, such as former independent directors of Air India, have repeatedly said in internal meetings with airline executives and government officials that revival can only happen after privatisation.
  
  Suggestions on this range from breaking up the company into profitmaking units and divesting stakes in each them to let the market decide on the valuation of the national carrier. Kaul said the government should start the process of divestment gradually, starting with subsidiaries.
  
  “Balance sheet or financial restructuring is key and strategic measures should include listing Air India Express, divest remaining stake in AISATS (a ground-handling company in which Air India owns 51%), sell AITSL completely, strategic sale in AI’s engineering subsidiary and more important, sell the real estate holdings of AI to deleverage the airline as much as possible,” he said. “This should be done under a special administration like Satyam (Computer Services) and be monitored by the PMO. We need to set up AI for privatisation.”
  
  Amber Dubey, head of aerospace at KPMG India, suggested the process should be market linked, like the regional connectivity scheme, where bids are based on market potential.
  
  “Best is to let the market decide. A good move, which is in the national interest, shouldn’t be held back due to a perceived risk of failure,” he said. “If no one bids, that too is a good market feedback. We can always go back to the drawing board and make the deal sweeter. There’s a low possibility of that happening though.”
  
  While Dubey and Kaul said the airline will find enough takers in the market due to its asset base in terms of slots, aircraft and other assets, Ahmad wasn’t so optimistic. 
