Parents of children studying in zilla parishad primary schools of Dhule district have raised Rs 7.84 crore to set up   and facilities such as handwash and dining areas for the students. 

 “This is a one-of-its-kind example in state where the parents have come forward to contribute the amount. All they want is to see their children study in an interesting, modern and healthy ways. We will ensure that their children get the best of education,” Dhule zilla parishad chief executive officer   said.
 
 He added that the government has not invested a single penny in the drive to digitise these schools. “The Prerna Sabha by NRI Harshal Vibhandik has been the biggest motivating factor in raising funds from parents in regular areas. In the tribal areas, the funds were drawn from the gram panchayats that got the amounts through the Panchayat Extension Scheduled Areas Act,” Deshmukh said.
 
 The ZP schools that have gone through the digitisation programme has started attracting children from various other institutes.
 
 “During the course of time, the ZP schools have enrolled 814 new students in various class rooms who were admitted in private schools. This is the biggest advantage in the education sector. If students are getting quality education in the ZP schools, why would the parents want to pay high fees in private schools for their children,” said district education officer Mohan Desle.
 
 These schools where the digitisation efforts have been undertaken have witnessed a sharp rise in attendance of students, besides improvement in the studies of the students who were taught through digital media.
 
 “We have 97,331 students in all ZP schools and the attendance, which used to be around 75%, has gone up to 90% after the digital media coming in. Also the tests conducted at different times, showed that the children with digital media were doing better than their other counter parts,” Desle said.
 
 The villagers and the non-governmental organisations have also started contributing towards the development of the school. 
 
 “My child is in Class III in a ZP school at Kapadne village. After I attended the Prerna Sabha, I decided to contribute from my end. While others contributed in different manner, I pitched in for donation for construction of an handwash area,” Prashant Shinde said.
 
 Most parents are extremely happy that their children are now eager to go to schools and come home happily and feel that theY would get better lessons. “Me tari kadhi Shalat Gau Nahi, Pan Ate Mana Porya Bhari Shalat Jaisan Ani Changli Marathi Shiknar She (I never had been to school, but now my son goes to a good school and will learn good Marathi,” said  , father of Anil from Shirpur taluka in the local Ahirani dialect.
 
