Nagpur: ‘Project Geeta’, the joint initiative of Orange City Hospital and Research Institute (OCHRI), Tata Trusts and CM Health Relief Fund to provide free Cochlear Implants to 60 kids in a year has reached its completion. But without taking a break, the three entities have extended the arrangement for three more years. They will now perform 60 such surgeries each year for next three years.

 Tata Trusts Finance Department head Kumar Chaitanya on Tuesday announced that through their Individual Grant Programme, they were extending support to OCHRI for more surgeries. Within the project, Padmashree Dr Milind Kirtane, heading the team of OCHRI surgeons Dr Nandu Kolwadkar, Dr Sameer Choudhary and Dr Ajay Deshpande, will perform five implant surgeries every month. The first lot of about 10 surgeries is likely to be performed in the first week of May, informed OCHRI director Dr Anup Marar.
 
 Director of Ravi Nair Hospitals Pvt Ltd Dr Usha Nair said, “We would like parents to bring eligible children at an early age. The implant is most effective before three years of age. In this project, we have capped the age at seven. However, this time we have also performed the surgery on an 8-year-old taking huge risk. Fortunately we got good results.”
 
 The project began in August last year and benefited 60 kids from across Maharashtra, mostly from Vidarbha. 
 
 Mukund Karanjekar (8), a farmer's son from Dighori, Bhandara, is one among them. When Mukund was one-year-old, his mother Laxmi noticed that he had not spoken a word and took him to family physician who suggested a hearing device for the boy. It did not work on Mukund and his parents couldn’t afford the very expensive cochlear implant. Mukund just lived with his disability for seven years.
 
 That did not stop him from being a topper in his class room, scoring 99% in the last exam. He studies at a Zilla Parishad School in Dighori and at present is in Std II. Due to his disability, he could never get in sync with the typical classroom teaching. He has been learning everything as his mother explains to him by writing it down for him. 
 
 As Mukund turned seven, his parents were informed about the Project Geeta and they immediately bought him to OCHRI. Laxmi said, “Without this kind of backing we could never had this surgery done on him. We just had to pay Rs50,000 for the surgery.”
 
 She said, “Since my son has good grasping power, he was able to catch up with the speech therapy post-surgery. Things he was expected to learn in five months, he has learnt in two months.”
 
 
