MUMBAI: The   on Monday told the state of Maharashtra to file written   taken and proposed to be taken for  .

 The state, represented by additional solicitor-general Tushar Mehta along with Nishant Katneshwarkar, said the dahi handi is celebrated by placing a child as a kanhaiya to reach out to the pot of curd or butter. The state said the event requires young boys aged 12-18 for the top tier. They said the pyramid is in three tiers, with the youngest and lightest at the top. The state also submitted that it would ensure safety of all participants.
 
 A bench of Kurian Joseph and R Bhanumathi was hearing special leave   that had capped the pyramid height at 20 feet and minimum age of participants at 18. The court told the state to file its submission within a week and placed the matter for further hearing on August 1.This year, the dahi handi will be celebrated on August 15.
 
 Last August, the SC had not paid he ed to thecontention that the tradition of Lord Krishna stealing butter as a young teenager inspires the dahi handi custom and directed no one below 18 can take part in human pyramids formed to celebrate Janmasthami. It also capped the height of pyramids at 20 feet. The SC order last August, by a bench of Justices A R Dave and Nageswara Rao, was on a plea by the Maharashtra government seeking clarity if age and height continued to be relaxed as was done by an interim order of the apex courtin 2014.
 
 The SC had in August 2014 stayed the HC order and allowed children aged 12 to participate as govindas and allowed dahi handi to rise beyond four floors. But last August 17, the SC placed an age restriction on govindas to prevent injury to children. It suspended other conditions and directions of the HC, including requirement of age proof, insurance details and terming dahi handi as a “dangerous performance“.
 
 The Supreme Court was petitioned last year for a clarification as there appeared to be confusion over the exact nature of curbs. It had posted the petition to hear the issue comprehensively on safety aspects.
 
