RAIPUR: Chhattisgarh chief minister  , on Sunday, during the 18th edition of his  , said that his government will formulate a state   and sought cooperation from the people to protect and preserve natural ponds and reservoirs. 

 The state has numerous ponds that have historical, religious and economic importance for the local population. Raman said that fish, lotus and water chestnuts that are derived from these ponds are a major source of income for local people. 
 
 Hence, citing the importance of preservation of these ponds, he said that his government has constituted a wetland authority, to be followed soon by a wetland policy. 
 
 Dr DK Marothiya, who is member of state planning commission, and his team are making dedicated efforts to ensure inclusion of unique water retaining structures at Ratanpur, Dalpatsagar and Kutumbsar (Bastar) at the world famous 'Ramsar-Site' that provides international recognition to historical places. With 160 ponds, Ratanpur is second only to China in having such a remarkable structure of water bodies, said the chief minister.
 
  He appealed to the gram panchayats, urban bodies, social organizations and common citizens to support the cause of pond conservation and also beautification of existing water reservoirs.
 
 Apart from this, the chief minister mentioned a group of women in the state, from village Rasela in Gariaband district, who are manufacturing CFL bulbs by themselves.
 
  He said he was amazed by the commendable work being done by these women. 
 
 Speaking about stress during examinations, he adviced students to practice yoga and other exercises to beat the stress, and appealed to the parents to maintain a cooperative environment at home during the examination time.
 
 He ended the talk show with the announcement that all Maintenance of Internal Security Act (MISA) detainees, who were jailed during the emergency of 1975, will be honored with the title of ' ', as they fought to protect democracy of the country when it was threatened. He added that his government has already increased the honorarium to be paid to them. 
 
 
