PATNA:   DM Sanjay Kumar Agarwal and Buxar DM Raman Kumar were felicitated and given a reward of Rs 25,000 each for ensuring   in their respective districts. 

 The DMs, who are also district election officers, were given away the cheques by chief secretary Anjani Kumar Singh at a function organised in Patna to mark the   on Wednesday. While 2002-batch official Agarwal was honoured for electoral roll management, Raman of 2009 batch was feted for implementing innovative measures. 
 
 Agarwal is credited for increase in the sex ratio of registered voters in his district during the last nine months. As against 856 females per 1,000 male voters in the electoral roll published in March last year, there are 902 females per 1,000 male voters in the district’s voter list published on January 10 this year. Altogether 82,322 new voters, including 49,256 females, were added to the list during the last none months.
 
 Three voter registration officers and ten booth level officers were also felicitated at the function which was attended by state’s chief electoral officer Ajay V Nayak and Patna divisional commissioner Anand Kishore, among others. Folk singer Sharda Sinha administered oath to those present that they would always cast their vote.
 
 The function was also attended by 200-odd   students who were handed over their new Elector Photo Identity Cards. Talking to TOI, newly enrolled elector Varsha Kumari, who is 20 years old, said she could not vote in the last assembly election in 2015 because she was not enrolled as a voter. “I felt a tad helpless then... But now I feel empowered,” said the second-year student of political science.
 
 Several other activities were also organised to create awareness about the importance of voting among people. At a state-level painting competition on the theme, ‘Every vote counts’, Nishu Kumari of St Joseph’s Convent Girls’ High School-Barh and Kumar Srijan of Hallens High School-Sitamarhi were selected to represent the state at a national-level competition.
 
