NEW DELHI: As part of its countrywide expansion plan, BJP has identified 120 Lok Sabha constituencies where the party hasn’t done well in the past but is optimistic of turning the fortunes in 2019 elections. Party members will be asked to hold regular interactions with people to acquaint them with the party’s ideology and also the achievements of Modi government. 

 Instead of being complacent after a 
  , the party thinktank is busy developing strategy to explore new territory, and thus, enhance prospects for 2019. “We can’t claim to retain all the seats we had won in 2014. So exploring possibilities is pragmatic and viable,” said a senior party leader, confident of the party putting up a good show in places in the south and eastern regions. He said the party will soon announce these 120 constituencies as it doesn’t want to keep it a secret. “Party cadres will be assigned the task formally,” he said. 
 
 While opposition parties are trying to stitch an alliance to contain BJP, the saffron party seems to be first off the block for the 2019 race, involving all ranks — from booth-level to national office-bearers. BJP president Amit Shah will tour five states — West Bengal, Odisha, Telangana, Lakshwadeep and Gujarat- for 95 days, an indication that bulk of the 120 seats could be in these states. 
 
 
 
 
 “The party president will visit these states twice till September holding interactions at booth level and also with intellectuals,” said another party leader. The party has already expressed its aggressive strategy for West Bengal and Odisha, the two states where it has been very proactive in the recent past. Telangana is the new inclusion where party anticipates a better performance. 
 
  
  
 
 The party has evolved a multi-pronged strategy for the expansion involving around 3.5-lakh full-time workers, who will be active from 15 days to six months. These active members are expected to hold booth level interactions. “While the expansion bid is an ongoing process, we are also taking stock of the works accomplished since the tasks were assigned after the 2014 Lok Sabha polls,” a senior party member said.
 
