RAE BARELI: Mixing up some filmy analogies to attack Prime Minister   while campaigning in Rae Bareli, Congress vice-president   said on Friday Modi started out wanting to be hero—Shah Rukh Khan of 1995 blockbuster Dilwale Dulhaniya Le Jayenge—promising “acche din” to people, but ended up as villain—‘daku’ Gabbar Singh of Sholay fame.

 Rahul and sister Priyanka began campaigning for SP-Congress alliance candidates in Rae Bareli and held the first of many campaign programmes in the VIP constituency on Friday. Rae Bareli goes to polls in the fourth phase on February 23.
 
 Addressing a meeting at the GIC grounds, Rahul said PM Modi is anti-farmer and has not waived farmer loans even after 2 crore farmers from UP had raised a demand for it. “I went to the PM and told him 2 crore farmers from UP alone were asking for the assistance. But he didn’t say a word. But now in UP, he is promising a farm loan waiver if BJP is elected to power. The UPA, on the other hand, waived Rs 70,000 crore worth of loans,” Congress vice-president said.
 
 Playing up Modi government’s preference of industrialists like Vijay Mallya over poor farmers, Rahul alleged Modi has indulged in politics of vendetta by ordering the closure of the mega food park project in Amethi, and dragged his feet in granting permissions to the operations at Rae Bareli AIIMS and rail coach factory. “Once the Congress-SP government comes to power, that will change. We want to create employment for people. We want to go to the youth and help them set up businesses that generate jobs,” he said.
 
 Rahul also rubbished Modi’s attempts to transform Varanasi and clean the Ganga, adding that Varanasi remains a civic mess, and that the Ganga is still as unclear as it was before the PM took oath. He said, “Rishte banane se nahin, nibhaane se bante hain,” Rahul said, alluding to the PM’s comments that he had contested the Lok Sabha polls from Varanasi following the “call of Ganga”. Urging the media to show the poor civic conditions in PM’s constituency, Rahul said, “I know the media is under considerable pressure, but I urge you to turn your cameras to show the poor condition of Varanasi.”
 
 In addition to Congress’ Aditi Singh, who will contest the polls from Rae Bareli Sadar, the brother-sister duo also pitched for support to Harchandpur candidate Rakesh Singh, and Sareni’s Congress candidate Ashok Kumar Singh. Samajwadi Party’s Sareni nominee Devendra Pal Singh, however, was not present at the rally on Friday. 
 
