Kolkata: The woman who tiptoed into the maternity ward of   Hospital, Kolkata and picked up the new-born was no stranger. Saraswati Naskar, the mother, told cops that she chanced to see her in the locality but came to know her during her hospital stay. 

 The CCTV footage from the hospital shows the accused Chinmayee Bej following Naskar closely. To get more clarity, cops are taking technical help to find out more details.
 
 The mother told police that she mistook the other woman as an ayah because Chinmayee’s relative was in the same profession. What surprised police was that this relative has gone missing since Chinmayee took the baby on Tuesday. Hospital authorities are also on the look out of the missing relative to get a clue of how   got a free entry into the hospital.
 
 Saraswati told TOI that cops asked her whether she knew Chinmoyee , who lives 20 houses apart from her in-law’s   hutment. “The officers asked me if I knew her. I said I have never seen or interacted with her near our house. But I had seen her at the hospital. I thought she was an ayah,” said Saraswati.
 
 When police asked her if she was sure that the rescued baby belonged to her, the mother said: “I showed them photographs of my son that I had taken on my mobile. I can recognize my son,” Saraswati said.
 
 Two lady officers from Bowbazar police recorded Saraswati’s statement on Wednesday night at hospital bed. Her father-in-law Rabi Naskar claimed that he had seen Chinmoyee in the locality.
 
 Rabi has his take over the apparent mismatch between Saraswati’s version of the accused and him knowing the woman. “Newly-wed Saraswati came to this place a year ago. Soon after, she became pregnant and went to her parent’s place,” Rabi said. 
 
 Going by the father-in-law, the seamless operation —from picking up the new-born to walking out of the hospital with the baby — unhindered, calls into question why Saraswati, who always wanted to have a boy-child, relied on the woman she chanced to see in the hospital. 
 
 Intrigued by the development, cops have started checking call details of the members of the Naskar and Bej families for the last three days. Bowbazar Police also asked the hospital authorities to provide the CCTV footage of the maternity ward since Saraswati took admission. The purpose is to find out how Saraswati came to know Chinmoyee. 
 
 
