PUNE: The   near Cloud9 society on   has caused endless trouble for the residents. The intimidating   is highly accident-prone and virtually a death trap.

 The civic body, heading to citizens’ pleas, has made a budgetary provision of Rs 1.20 crore to reduce the slope by 10ft. A part of the road from Cloud9 to Sunshree Crown society will also be widened. 
 
 The slope between Cloud9 and RIMS International school has witnessed several accidents. Rapid urbanization, increase in population and a rise in a number of vehicles using the road to reach Mohammadwadi, Undri, NIBM Road, Salunke Vihar Road and other parts of Kondhwa have made it vulnerable.
 
 The civic body’s road department’s junior engineer Shramik Shewate said on Tuesday, “The place comes under the development plan of the PMC. We have issued the work order to reduce the height of the slope. We have also initiated a proposal for getting a part of the forest land near Cloud9 for widening the road up to 24m. We will start the work after receiving permission from the forest department, Pune.”
 
 Renewable energy consultant Alpesh Shah said, “The 45 degree slope is steep, its gradient or height should be reduced in order to get traffic to manoeuvre. Vehicles with powerful engines are driven at high speeds. Youngsters use the road for joy rides. There have been frequent fatal and minor accidents on the slope and at the Nine Hills township exit.”
 
 Heavy vehicles including trucks, containers, water tankers and cranes are facing difficulties ascending the slope. The civic body had earlier installed two speed breakers for checking the speed limit while descending the slope, but they were flattened, Shah added.
 
  said, “Reducing the height of the slope is not a solution for resolving traffic problems. Speed limits can be controlled if the PMC takes initiative in installing rumblers. For instance, if one drives at a slow speed, the driver will not lose control over the vehicle and the chances of causing an accident will be fewer.”
 
 Homemaker Zeba Shaikh said since October 25, 2016 they had been visiting PMC headquarters to construct speed breakers outside Nine Hills and Cloud9 for reducing the speed limit here, but their requests were unheard. 
 
 The traffic branch of the Pune police has conducted a survey and proposed the construction of four speed breakers on either sides of the road, she added.
 
 Local corporator Nanda Lonkar said, “We have taken up the issue with the PMC, following complaints from the residents that the slope and narrow road were causing fatal accidents because vehicles are driven in full speed. The work of reducing the slope and widening the   road will begin at the earliest.”
 
 
