BENGALURU: Citizen activists spearheading the campaign against the new draft   met Bengaluru development minister KJ George on Monday, saying the proposed rules would have an adverse impact on residential areas. The activists claimed that George assured them of holding public consultations before finalizing the regulations. 

 V Ramaswamy, a member of Citizen Action   ( ) and Malleswaram resident said, “The minister understood our concerns and promised to meet citizens and other stakeholders to consider everyone’s opinion before implementing the rules. This has strengthened our campaign and our faith in the government.” Understanding that the blanket regulation wouldn’t work in all towns and cities, George said he would examine the draft in detail, citizens pointed out. 
 
 However, Mahendra Jain, additional chief secretary, urban development department, said there was no scope of a formal public consultation. Jain said: “The draft doesn’t require a public discussion. Monday was the last day to submit objections, which will be examined. But citizens can share their opinions with officials/ministers during this time,” he said.
 
 Objection tally to be known today
 
 Officials from the directorate of town and country planning under the urban development department said counting of objections is still on. “We will get to know the exact number by Tuesday. We are already looking into the complaints we have received from each district. We will convene a meeting with senior officials and discuss the process of holding public consultations, if needed,” said an official. However, the draft clearly says a public consultation is not required as it gives citizens 30 days to submit objections. The government has the power to reject any objection.
 
 Citizens for Bengaluru (CFB) members claimed about 10,000 objections had been filed by over 300 resident welfare associations (RWAs) and civic groups from Bengaluru alone till Saturday. Citizen activists and RWA members have been urging the government not to notify the new rules whose draft was issued on July 1. Their campaign, #HosaZoningBeda, has gathered momentum in the past few weeks. Citizens are concerned about the provision to allow commercial and even industrial setups in residential areas where road width is 30 feet and less. This will increase commercialization of residential areas, increase pollution and threaten safety of the elderly and kids, they argue.
 
 Topic features in BBMP meet
 
 The draft was discussed at the BBMP council’s monthly meeting, with many opposition members alleging the move will lead to rampant commercialization of residential areas. Padmanabha Reddy, leader of opposition, said: “The 74th amendment to the Constitution gives local civic agencies the power to have a say in such decisions. But the government has bypassed the municipal corporation and is acting on its own. The government is weakening these bodies,” he said.
 
 Replying to this, BBMP commissioner N Manjunath Prasad said building bylaws for the capital are different from those followed by other cities.
 
