KANPUR: Just as Prime Minister Narendra Modi has stopped taking the name of Bihar after his party’s defeat in that state, he won’t be heard taking the name of Uttar Pradesh after the assembly elections here, said Congress vice president  , addressing a joint election meeting along with chief minister Akhilesh Yadav here on Sunday.

 After Modi’s SCAM (Samajwadi, Congress, Akhilesh, Mayawati) jibe, Rahul announced his own version.
 
 “S is for sewa (service) of poor, C is for courage, A for ability and M for modesty to forgive mistakes as nobody is perfect,” said Rahul. Modi’s new abbreviation is only a sign of his fear of the SP-Congress alliance in UP, Rahul said, adding, “He used to smile a lot but these days that smile is wiped out of his face.”
 
 Rahul said Modi will soon realise what people think of his ‘notebandi’ (demonetisation) decision after the UP elections. “Farmers don’t take cheques and Modi has created problem for the poor,” said Rahul, suggesting Akhilesh to come up with “youth’s common minimum manifesto” for those from straitened circumstances. When someone from the crowd shouted ‘Narendra Modi murdabad’, Rahul said, “Instead of venting your anger here, go and vote against BJP and help SP-Congress win 300 seats.”
 
 He also cited Modi’s ‘Make In India’ campaign saying, “Everything we use is actually ‘Made In China’ but when SPCongress combine comes to power, products will be ‘Made In Kanpur, Jhansi, Lucknow, Saharanpur.”
 
 Rahul said, “Let us give RSS and BJP the clear message that UP is a land of love with no place for them to spread hatred. Our alliance will work for all, particularly poor, youth and women in the state.”
 
 In an answer to Modi’s SCAM jibe, Akhilesh said, “This SCAM is going to remain in UP, while its people are prepared to ward off your kind of SCAM — Save country from Amit (Shah) and Modi. I don’t know why the PM is attacking the BSP though his party had joined hands with them in the past and ‘bua’ (Mayawati) even celebrated Raksha Bandhan with BJP leaders.”
 
 Speaking about the alliance with Congress, Akhilesh said, “Our coalition will not only retain power in UP, it will change the direction of the country’s politics.”
 
 
