NEW DELHI: A two-judge   bench headed by Justice   had wondered whether an affidavit filed by the SC on guidelines for designating lawyers as senior advocates reflected the views of all apex court judges, or the 'full court'. 

  Senior advocate Indira  , who has questioned the process of designating lawyers as senior advocates by the SC and HCs, took a cue from this and filed an application seeking a direction to the SC secretary general to file an affidavit reflecting the decision of the full court on matters raised in her petition, "indicating that the matter has been considered by the full court". She had also questioned whether the earlier affidavit was authorised by the SC to be filed before the two-judge bench. 
 
  The SC has not designated a single lawyer as senior advocate since Jaising filed the petition in 2015. In her application, Jaising had sought a direction to the SC to maintain status quo on designating senior advocates by the apex court during pendency of this petition, which has been referred to a larger bench. 
 
 The two-judge bench indirect questioning the earlier affidavit by the SC and the filing of an application by Jaising had put officials in a tizzy as they feared being caught between the judicial side, in this case represented by the bench, and the administrative side headed by the CJI.
 
  After a lot of deliberations, the SC's administrative side filed an affidavit on Monday and said, "The reply affidavit of July 25, 2016 was filed after obtaining the approval of the then competent authorities. It would not be appropriate to contend that the affidavit had not been filed on behalf of the SC." "It is reiterated that it was only after obtaining the requisite approval that the affidavit of July 25, 2016 on behalf of the Supreme Court was filed in the present proceedings," the new affidavit said. 
 
  However, the SC said that no rules had been framed mentioning any specific criteria to designate a lawyer as senior advocate. "But certain norms have been defined by resolutions of the full court from time to time for stipulating certain criteria for the purpose of designating senior advocates. On February 11, 2014, it was resolved by the full court that the requests for designation as senior advocate could be decided by secret ballot," it said. 
 
  Finding that the unwritten decision of the SC to suspend designating lawyers as senior advocate was depriving a large number of competent lawyers, SC Bar Association president and senior advocate   requested the bench of Justices Gogoi and   to allow the SC to start the process. The bench said its order of March 22 was clear as it had said, "So far as the designation during the interregnum is concerned, we leave the matter to the discretion of the high courts as well as this court." The matter is posted for further hearing on July 20. 
 
 
