AHMEDABAD: Audio recordings of sting operations and telephone conversations are vital pieces of evidence and continue to remain ‘documents’ according to the Indian Evidence Act, but a Gujarat high court’s order has annulled their evidentiary value, by ruling that an accused person can’t be subjected to voice spectrography without his consent.

 This important ruling came in a petition filed by a superintendent of the prohibition and excise directorate,  , who was facing corruption charges for demanding a bribe of Rs 4,000 to renew a liquor permit. The evidence against him was an audio recording of the telephone conversation. The probe agency, the anti-corruption bureau at Bhuj, wanted to use the audio file as evidence against  , and for it wanted to voice spectrography of him.
 
 Devani was reluctant to provide a voice sample and moved the high court through advocate B M  , who argued that compelling an accused to give his voice sample would be violation of Article 20(3) of the Constitution, which gives an accused the right to remain silent. He also argued that the police and courts do not have the powers to make an accused to undergo this procedure.
 
 The state government vehemently fought against these arguments. After a prolonged hearing,   concluded that the procedure of taking voice sample does not fall under “psychiatric examination” which, according to the  , cannot be conducted without accused’s consent. Such examination includes narco-analysis, lie detection tests and BEAP (Brain Electrical Activation Profile) test. Hence, collecting voice samples for spectrography does not violate Article 20(3).
 
 However, the HC demolished all contentions of the state government, which was asserting that voice spectrography is a procedure that various laws provide for. The HC concluded that section 165 of the Criminal Procedure Code, section 73 of the Indian Evidence Act and sections 2(a) and 5 of the Identification of Prisoners Act, which according to the government empowers investigators to collect voice samples, does not have any provision for spectrography.
 
 Observing that there is an absence of the law in this regard, the HC recommended the state government to immediately formulate laws to include voice samples in the investigative method. The HC has ordered that copies of this judgment be sent to the legal departments of the Centre as well as the state government.
 
 
