The thought of   can make you feel terrible and anxious. Nevertheless, due to certain conditions, some people may have to get under the knife. However, a careful planning can help you to make your surgery safe and your recovery period less stressful. This is particularly of more importance for people with   as uncontrolled diabetes can adversely affect your healing process. Here are some "to do" list that can help you to prepare before surgery.

 Keep your diabetes under control; better-controlled diabetes gives you better chances of an excellent surgical outcome. Keep your blood sugar within recommended range. A good nutrition including high-quality protein is also crucial; protein is a vital component of healing process. It can contribute to a faster wound healing, stronger tissue at the surgical site and an increased ability to withstand the rigors of surgery. Exercise is also important, it makes your body stronger that help you tolerate your surgery and recovery. If you are already not active but you are able, you can consult your doctor and start exercising. Also, exercise brings your sugar levels under control, which helps in faster healing. Try to be calm, don't get excessively stressed about your surgery. As both physical stress (the surgery) and emotional stress (worrying, anxiety) can raise the  , which again hampers your recovery process. So, if you are feeling anxious about your surgery, coping with surgical fear and anxiety may help you. If you are a smoker or alcohol drinker then stop immediately. Quitting alcohol will help you with a better control of your blood glucose and quitting smoking will help you to return to normal breathing without external oxygen or a ventilator faster.
 
 For a diabetic planning to undergo a surgery, a high quality nutrition and tight   is necessary for a safe surgery and a faster recovery. A good nutrition is the building blocks for healing and a normal blood glucose level helps in a quicker return to health. Tight control of blood glucose levels also cut your days at hospital after surgery.
 
 
 
 
