BENGALURU: Private hospitals in Bengaluru have seen an alarming rise in Caesarean-section deliveries over the last five years -- from the ideal 10-12% to 50-60% -- say gynaecologists. Increasing complications in pregnancy, inappropriate lifestyle of pregnant mothers leading to high rates of obesity, and diabetes are reasons why C-section is preferred to normal delivery, they explain.

 However, disapproving women and child development minister Maneka Gandhi’s description of rising C-section surgeries as a racket, doctors say it’s not just experts, but even patients and their families who prefer this mode of childbirth to avoid risks associated with normal delivery. This is more so in case of complicated pregnancies, the incidence of which is on the rise, they point out.
 
 Dr Savitha Shetty, consultant gynaecologist and obstetrician at  , says while there could be multiple reasons for the alarming rise in C-section surgeries, doctors wanting to make money isn’t one of them. 
 
 “Increasing consumption of junk food compromises nutrition. Also, people don’t exercise much, leading to a rise in obesity and diabetes among pregnant women. India is known for its widely reported gestational diabetes. In cases of cephalopelvic disproportion, where the baby is big and the pelvis small, normal delivery becomes difficult,” she explains.
 
 According to Dr Shetty, compared to government hospitals, private hospitals see more C-section surgeries because high-risk and complicated cases mostly land in private hospitals. 
 
 Taking exception to an online petition targeting C-section deliveries, Dr Manisha Singh, consultant gynaecologist and IVF specialist at Fortis Hospital, says C-section has its own merits, compelling doctors to go for it and avoid health risk to both the newborn and the mother.
 
 “Abruptio placentae, wherein the placental lining gets separated from the mother’s uterus prior to delivery, foetal distress within the womb, preeclampsia, pelvic disproportions, cord prolapse, where the umbilical cord comes out of the uterus with or before the foetus are among the most common challenges that can be overcome only through C-section surgeries,” she explains.
 
 Not imposed on patients, say docs
 
 Times News Network
 
 Bengaluru: The medical fraternity in the city dismisses the allegation that doctors impose C-section deliveries on patients. 
 
 Says Dr Sushmita K, consultant, obstetrics and gynaecologist at Motherhood Hospitals: “Patients and their families are counselled on modes of delivery and suggested the best available options. They then make their own choice after consulting the doctor.” 
 
 Laughing off the allegation that C-section deliveries are a way to make money, doctors say their fee is the same in both forms of delivery. 
 
 According to Dr Sushmita, a C-section delivery is 30% more costlier than a normal one, given that it requires the use of operation theatre and anaesthesia, among other things. 
 
 Explaining why patients often prefer C-section, Dr Meena Muthiah, head of obstetrics and gynaecology department at Manipal Hospitals, says: “Unlike in the past when women would have many deliveries, these days it’s just one or two. Hence, most patients opt for risk-free and healthy mode of delivery. Also, these days babies are bigger in size. Most of them weigh almost 3kg at birth. So, for safe passage and healthy delivery C-section is preferable.”
 
 For fear of being dragged to court 
 
 These days, if there are complications with the mother or the baby post delivery, people go to court and blame it on the hospital. Tomorrow, if the baby develops any birth injury due to vaginal delivery, people would blame it on the doctor. Because of such fears, doctors now don’t want to take any risk and recommend C-section, especially if there are any complications in pregnancy.
 
 Dr Savitha Shetty | consultant gynaecologist and obstetrician, Columbia Asia Referral Hospital
 
 Follow norms to avoid errors
 
 Majority of doctors act in the best interest of patients. In all profession, there are bad apples. In any institution, doctors can be peer reviewed; also, audits must be done to improve standards of care. Practice should be evidence based, and there should be protocols in place. Problems may arise as doctors too are humans and error of judgement is possible. However, if concerned authorities follow few simple norms, such errors can be avoided.
 
 Dr   | senior consultant and head of obstetrics & gynaecology, St Martha’s Hospital
 
 OPTING FOR C-SECTION
 
 Merits
 
 · Expedites delivery in emergency scenario
 
 · Can be planned electively in case the person has had previous surgeries 
 
 · Prevents anal sphincter damage, and subsequent problems related to incontinence
 
  Demerits 
 
 · Scars on abdomen and uterus
 
 · Adhesion formation
 
 · Higher chances of C-section in subsequent pregnancies
 
 · Rise of scar rupture
 
 · Occasionally excessive haemorrhage needing blood transfusion
 
