The ripple effect of the government’s newly-imposed Goods and Services Tax (GST) is yet to cease, as uncertainty over the latest tariff rules continues to confuse the city’s Durga Puja organizers and artisans alike. In the run-up to the festive season this year, 
  takes stock of the situation to understand in what ways GST is making an impact on this sector and how people are coping with it...

  
 
 
  “The ambiguity over the new taxation system has increased the workload for the management body, as every expense and budget detail needs to be rechecked to avoid discrepancies. We have a group of people — comprising tax experts and auditors — to look into the costs and spending, and make suggestions accordingly. But for smaller and newly-formed Puja committees, it could be a taxing time. Puja celebrations are not limited to religious rituals. The festivities also include bhog (feast), cultural shows and decorations. The expenditure needs to be worked out at various levels. This year, we are shifting the venue from an open-air space to an auditorium, with 24% tax on its rental. Artiste fee is also a concern. Hopefully, there will be more clarity in the taxation system next year,” says  , senior member of the Bengalee Association.
 
  
 
 
  Naseer Hussain — an artisan and a supplier of paints and other raw materials at Pottery Town — says, “The number of orders has taken a beating ever since the GST has been implemented. Pottery artisans and other daily-wage earners are suffering as consumers are now thinking twice before placing any order — be it for idols or other goods. Raw materials have become costlier. And, now we also have to keep in mind the environmental aspect of every product we make.”
 
  
 
 
  The biggest order that artist Tarun Paul has received this year is a 15-foot-tall Durga statue, to which he is busy giving finishing touches, amid working on a row of other small and big idols, as well as ensuring the timely delivery of the ready-to-be-installed statutes. Every year for the past 39 years, Tarun travels with his artisan troupe from Kolkata and camps in Bengaluru for four months at a makeshift shelter, which doubles as his temporary manufacturing unit in the city. This year, it’s pitched at Cox Town. “My father, Sudhir Paul, was one of the first Durga idol makers from West Bengal who came to this city in 1969. I am just continuing his legacy. We get the clay and most of the adornments for the statues from Kolkata, while raw materials such wood, bamboo and rice straw are bought locally here. GST has created a certain sense of vagueness and confusion in people’s minds, as to how much money was spent on what product earlier and how much more needs to be forked out now. But I don’t think it has adversely affected anything yet. Just that proper calculations should be done before making any payments,” Tarun says. 
 
  
 
 
  Bijon Majumdar, president of the Jayamahal Sarbajanin Durga Charitable Samiti, says, “So far this year, there has definitely been an impact on the total monetary collection through donations and other charitable proceeds. The actual impact of the GST roll-out can be determined only after the celebrations are over, but that managing committees are feeling the pinch this year cannot be ruled out.”
 
 
