HYDERABAD: Four other Indians escaped a fate similar to   Mamidala, who was shot at point blank range by Stuart Baronnguae on Feb 10 at  , California. After killing Vamsi, the carjacker had trained his gun on the four friends in another car, but they quickly ducked and stayed hidden for over five minutes.

 According to the ‘Statement of Facts’ (a copy of which is available with TOI) declared by Detective David Morris of Milpitas police department, after killing Vamsi, Baronnguae turned to Chepur, Karteek, Siruvolu and Koppula sitting in a car. They have been named as victims 3 4, 5 and 6 in case no. 17-041-177.
 
 The four friends had parked their car on the same side of the garage just when Stuart came hurtling down in his stolen car and crashed into Vamsi’s car. “After   Mamidala, Baronnguae turned his attention towards the victims he saw in the parked car. These four were scared and ducked down in the car for about 5 minutes until they were confident the suspect had fled,” Morris said.
 
 Morris, one of the lead investigators in the case, explained the sequence of events at Ilara Apartments on Feb 10. A woman named Opinaldo had parked her car on the fifth floor and came down in an elevator. At the garage, she was accosted by Stuart who snatched her keys and ran up the ramp. Opinaldo quickly got into an apartment and informed the police. In the meantime, Stuart stole her car but in his hurry crashed into other cars at the thrid level of the garage.
 
 “Baronnguae collided with a VW that was travelling up the ramp. The driver of the VW was later identified as Mamidala. Baronnguae exited the Scion and ordered Mamidala out of the VW at gunpoint. Mamidala complied and exited the car with his hands-up. Baronnguae fired the shot gun, striking Mamidala in the left eye,” the report said.
 
 After driving over Vamsi’s body, Stuart fled. When Milpitas police ordered Stuart to stop, he revved up the engine and accelerating the car at a high speed towards the officers. Three officers had to jump out of the way to avoid getting hit by his car, the report elaborated.
 
 
