BHOPAL: BJP leader and former revenue minister Kamal Patel has opened a front against his own party’s government alleging illegal sand mining in four districts and filed a complaint with National Green Tribunal ( ) central bench on Saturday, seeking action to save river  . 

 “Despite instructions from the chief minister, illegal mining is rampant in Harda, Hoshangabad, Dewas and Sehore districts, where the mining mafia is using latest technology to excavate sand from the river bed. A syndicate of illegal miners and government officials is working against environment norms and we have decided to draw the attention of the NGT, seeking strict action,” said Patel on Saturday.
 
 In his petition, the former minister alleged illegal mining activities were being carried out by private companies in violation of environment norms causing an irreparable damage and loss to the environment. The illegal mining also violates the rules of the Mines and Minerals Regulation 1957 and Environment Protection Act 1986, the petition stated.
 
 “There has been a sudden spurt in illegal mining activities in last few months despite stern warnings issued by the state mining department. It shows how the local administration has connived with the sand mafia as despite repeated complaints no action has been taken so far against any company,” Patel told reporters after submitting the petition.
 
 He said last week district in-charge minister for Harda, Lal Singh Arya had arrived to attend local programmes and carried out a surprise inspection to find that illegal mining activities were being carried out unchecked on the banks of river Narmada.
 
 Incidentally, Arya had also raised the issue of illegal sand mining with authorities.
 
 Patel said in four districts, river Narmada was being exploited. He said he was eyewitness to Pokelin machines digging out sand from the river bed for transportation through dumpers. He alleged that he complained to the collector and the SP, but no action was taken against those involved in illegal mining.
 
 The petition stated officials of district administration, mining and environment department were also involved as there was neither any action nor any provision to stop illegal activities.
 
 The petition sought directions to the state authorities to cancel the mining lease of companies involved, with immediate effect and impose a fine for illegal mining operations carried out during past many days.
 
 Besides, it urged the tribunal to instruct the state government to immediately stop and cancel all legal and illegal mining activities in river Narmada to save and conserve the river.
 
 The petitioner appealed that disciplinary action should be taken against erring and responsible officials of the state government and initiate criminal prosecution against private companies and government officials responsible for lapses, it said.
 
 Former IFS officer and convener of System Parivartan Abhiyan, Azad Singh Dabas has drawn the attention of chief secretary B P Singh to illegal mining activities in Harda and Hoshangabad. In a letter to Singh, Dabas said the government should take immediate action to put a curb on illegal sand mining as amendments have also been made to impose heavy fine and confiscate the machinery used for the illegal activity.
 
