BHAGALPUR: The Patna high court on Monday ordered the state government to register a case under   of Specified Corrupt Practices Act, 1983, against the officials concerned and initiate a   into the procedural lapses while raising the height of  .

 The court of Justice Navaniti Prasad Singh and Justice Vikash Jain raised serious queries and expressed its annoyance over the procedures adopted so far and intentions of the officials involved in the said road construction. 
 
 The hearing was in the backdrop of contempt proceedings against the state government and road construction department (RCD) officials vis-à-vis substantial increase in the height of roads in the main town areas of Bhagalpur as the court considered it as deliberate disobedience and obvious case of commission of contempt of court’s directives.
 
 Earlier, the high court had asked why the state permitted repair/reconstruction on the existing roads and thereby raising their height in conflict with the previous directives dated April 19, 2010, issued by the court in CWJC No. 4839 of 2010 (Deepak Mukherjee & Others versus State of Bihar and Others).
 
 “What action has been taken against the officials who, in violation of the said court order, permitted the reconstruction over the existing roads, thereby raising their height in Bhagalpur,” the high court had asked in its September 16, 2016 order. 
 
 The high court, while hearing the public interest litigation (PIL) related to raising the roads heights in Bhagalpur, had earlier directed the chief secretary to furnish the list of persons who ‘prima facie’ deliberately flouted the court directives and also dubbed them to be accountable for the wrongs done to the public.
 
 Advocate Rajesh Chandra Jha, who had filed the PIL, said, “The roads passing through the main city areas are reconstructed by increasing the heights substantially (between 2-3 feet) causing immense trouble to the house owners residing on the two sides of the roads besides the business establishments as well as common people approaching the main road from the lanes and bylanes, causing waterlogging.” 
 
 Petitioner’s advocates Dinu Kumar and   said the RCD officials and others deliberately disobeyed the court’s past orders vis-à-vis guidelines and restrictions in connection with maintaining road heights while undertaking repair and reconstruction works. The   has also violated the court’s directives at many places. 
 
 Jha, referring to gross violation of the courts’ earlier orders and how fundamental rights of local residents have been infringed, said, “The problems of local residents are manifold due to rainwater logging besides drain water and filth entering the premises, shops and establishments due to choking of existing drains and for the reason that the plinth levels of houses/establishments was caused to be brought down after raising the height of the road.”
 
