THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The meteorological department has warned of very heavy rainfall in the state till Tuesday morning. “Over the past 24hours, most parts of the state received unexpected rain (over 10cm). Usually it is 10mm during the current period. Mannarkkad recorded the highest rainfall of 22cm till Sunday morning,” said MET centre director S Sudevan.

 The volume of rainfall the state received after 8am on Sunday will be known on Monday morning. A low pressure formation in the Arabian Sea off Maharashtra and Kerala and a cyclonic circulation in the   off Odisha were identified as the reasons for the heavy rain. Kerala State Disaster Management Authority has marked the disaster preparedness standard operating procedures (SOP) at level-two across Kerala.
 
 “As part of L2 disaster preparedness, taluk level control rooms will function 24hours a day along with district-level control room that is integrated with the state control room,” said state emergency operations centre head scientist Sekhar Kuriakose. All disaster management teams, Army, Navy, Air Force and coast guard are maintaining a vigil, he said.
 
 As part of SOP, all taluks, districts and state departments – including transport and health – have been alerted to oversee the relief and rehabilitation measures.
 
 “Very heavy rainfall (12-20cm) is likely to occur at one or two places in Kerala and heavy rain fall (7-11cm) is likely at some more places in Kerala and Lakshadweep till Tuesday morning,” the centre said, adding that fishermen should not venture out for fishing. The centre said that widespread rain has almost covered the rain shortage in most districts, barring Wayanad and the capital.
 
 Meanwhile, Ernakulam came to a standstill due to heavy rain (58mm) on Sunday which flooded the city’s main roads. Infopark in Kakkanad too was flooded. Kochiites, who tried to beat the rain by opting for online taxis, were left disappointed due to the unavailability of services. Many had a tough day after drivers bailed out citing flooding.
 
 The capital witnessed heavy showers with minor accidents being reported in various parts of the district. Patients admitted to ward number 7 of the general hospital had a narrow escape when a tree uprooted in the strong wind fell. They were shifted to another ward. Trees were uprooted at Mannanthala, Venpalavattom, Chathampara, Pachalloor and Vizhinjam.
 
 In Malabar, rains pounded various parts of the region causing waterlogging in streets, low lying areas and damaging crops. The rain, which continued throughout the day, submerged many city roads in Kozhikode. IMD officials said that Kozhikode recorded 31.8mm of rain. The worst-hit area was Mavoor Road in the heart of the city, despite authorities spending Rs 15 crore to prevent flooding. Most parts of Kannur and Kasaragod districts too witnessed heavy rain.
 
 Thrissur received the second-highest rainfall of the monsoon. Officials at Kerala Agricultural University (KAU)’s meteorological station at Vellanikkara said Thrissur received 118.1mm during the past 24 hours. However, the level of rainfall was uneven in different parts of the district.
 
