THANE: With the deadline to link-up the Aadhar card with the Permanent Account Number (PAN) card expiring by the end of this month, lakhs of tax payers appear to be at their wits end as eight of the registered centers in the lake city have been   for the past 15-20 days. Thane has a total 16 aadhar centres.

 Authorities said the centres were forced to close due to technical glitches and lack of on-time system upgradation. The centre in the Thane collectorate has been shut for more than a month now, and a banner affixed on its doors, providing only an alternate centre address and contact number. 
 
 The linking initiative which is an attempt to keep a tab on tax evasion and to bring about transparency in the system of filing Income Tax returns sounds great on paper, but in reality, there is a tremendous dearth of facilities available especially for those citizens who are first time applicants for Aadhar Card.
 
 “The entire system is undergoing an update. A new machinery will be launched by August 15 and hence it is likely that many centres have closed down. That is what the authorities are informing us as of now,” said an official from a centre near Thane’s Wagle Estate area.
 
 Another official, Vinod Sawant from Vartak Nagar Centre said, “We had to close down last month because our machines were not functioning efficiently. Probably, we will re-open in the first week of August.”
 
 The lack of centres available is not only harrowing the lake city residents, but is also putting a pressure on the current working centres.
 
 Makarand Gawde, from a centre at Ram Maruti Road, said, “We have six staff members who are operating on only two machines. Appointments are scheduled right from 9.30 am to 6pm, where   from neighbouring areas of Mulund, Airoli and Bhiwandi also come. In a months’ time, we have issued 752 forms for Aadhar Card. Apart from that, per week we get about 150-200 calls for inquiry and have deployed more officials specifically for this purpose.”
 
 Meanwhile, residents are running from pillar to post, making multiple rounds to avail an appointment at the limited number of centres in operation now, hoping they would finish the linking process by July 30 which is the deadline allotted.
 
 “I visited the centre at Ram Maruti Road three times before I got an appointment. I reached the place at around 6 am and was still fifth in line. Only 30 forms are issued every day, so one has to go really early in the morning” said a Thaneite.
 
 I visited the centre at Ram Maruti Road three times before I got an appointment. I reached the place at around 6 am and was still fifth in line.
 
