MUMBAI: On a September afternoon in 1873, a few dozen prominent  , Hindus, Muslims and   citizens, all nattily dressed, gathered inside the municipal building in the city’s  . The grandees, all stalwarts in their respective professions, congregated with one objective uppermost in their minds—to provide an effective and responsible local self-government for the 6.5 lakh citizens of Bombay living between Colaba and Tardeo.

 One hundred and forty four years later, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation ( ) is the largest civic body in the country with an annual budget of Rs 37,000 crore, larger than some of the smaller Indian states. It provides civic services to a population of over 12 million residents in Greater Mumbai residing between Colaba till Dahisar in the western suburbs and Mulund on the eastern end of the city.
 
 Those venerable city fathers who attended the first-ever general body meeting of what was then known as the Bombay Municipal Council on September 4, 1873, would have never imagined the plight of their beloved city today. The civic administration is now considered to be one of the most corrupt and non-transparent public service bodies.
 
 The minutes of the 1873 meeting were meticulously written down by then municipal secretary H Winford Barrow. One Major Baker RE was voted to chair the first meeting, “The advertisement governing the meeting was read,” he recorded. The business was to elect the chairman and members of the town council. “The honourable Narayan Tasudeojee proposed that captain   be elected chairman of the municipal corporation of Bombay. The motion was seconded by Byramjee Jeejeebhoy esquire,” the record notes.
 
 Captain Henry then took the chair and the names of the corporation members were called out. There were 64 members in all, half of whom were elected by “rate payers” for the first time in the city’s history. Under the Act of 1872, the rate payers, who paid not less than Rs 30 a year by way of property taxes and wheel tax, were enfranchised. They, along with fellows of the University of Bombay, elected 32 members. Sixteen more were elected by the justices and the remaining 16 were nominated by the government.
 
 Earlier, the city was governed by the East India Company to whom it was transferred by the British rulers in 1669. Later, the city came under the direct control of the British government. There was no regular civic authority back then. The township was administered by the governor and his senior members. Between 1803 and 1845, the city government was in the hands of a court of petty sessions, which was replaced by a board of conservancy as its administrator but controlled by the justices.
 
 In 1858, it was replaced by a triumvirate of commissioners. But this experiment failed and by the Municipal Act of 1865, the entire executive power was vested in the municipal commissioner. However, citizens agitated for more powers and greater popular control of the civic government. In 1882, after Lord Ripon’s announcement on local self-government, the present Act of 1888 was enacted. This historical Act has been amended several times since then.
 
 On January 8, 1886, The Times of India reported about the civic budget estimates submitted by the chairman, H Cook: “…I find that the first half of this decade the average annual income was Rs 82,00,000 while for the last half it has averaged Rs 89,87,000…This increase I need hardly say is due to and represents the relative growth and expansion of the city, and a material increase in its wealth, and I think I may fairly add is indicative of the good management of those in whose hands the welfare of the city lies… .”
 
 Today, the stone edifice of the grand municipal headquarters stands like a silent sentinel to the times when its members had launched a frontal onslaught on the then mighty British empire. The BMC once nurtured a host of prominent patriots who played a significant role in helping the nation break away from the imperial yoke. Dadabhai Naoroji, Pherozshah Mehta, Badrudin Tayebji, H.P. Mody, Jamnadas Mehta, S.S. Mirajkar, Yusuf Meherally and Sarojini Naidu were among the host of giants who walked the portals of the civic headquarters. Over the past few decades, some of the stalwarts in the BMC included mayor B K Boman Behram, Naushir Bharucha, Khurshed Nariman and Rustom Tirandaz. Women like Ahila Rangnekar, Mrinal Gore, Indumati Patel and Liliben Pandya contributed a lot to the civic governance. In fact, Indumati Patel was a fiery Congress leader of the opposition while Liliben Pandya was the first woman chairperson of the civic standing committee.
 
 From the 1980s onwards, the growing role of crime and corruption in urban politics sent shockwaves and the BMC was never the same again.
 
 Later this month, when 227 corporators enter the hallowed portals of the civic headquarters, they must know they are part of an illustrious past.
 
 
