HYDERABAD: Police arrested a structural engineer from city on Friday with a huge cache of Lysergic acid diethy lamide (LSD), uncovering an international drug syndicate.

 Piyush Auluck, a cybernetics graduate, was arrested from his East Marredpally residence with at least 80 LSD blots. Excise sleuths also seized, 2,746 strips containing a concoction of chemicals suspected to be LSD, 20 grams of ganja, 40 grams of caffeine powder, nine capsules of Venlor-XR, four tablets of Penegra 4 mg, Axepta 10 mg, and empty parcel covers from Germany and Great   containing his home address. Auluck's interrogation has revealed that drug peddlers have graduated from buying LSD blots over Darknet to purchasing LSD crystals, enabling them to produce LSD blots in bulk. Each crystal can be used for producing 20,000 to 30,000 LSD blots. The case will further be investigated by a   team, which will fly to the city on Saturday.
 
 Police sources said Auluck obtained the shipment of LSD from Munich on payment of 63.90 Euros from his ICICI Bank account. “Piyush is in contact with customers through his friends Abbe and Vijay . We have seized a mobile phone and laptop from him,“ prohibition & excise deputy commissioner Vivekananda Reddy told TOI.
 
 Piyush makes about Rs 1,500 profit on selling each LSD blot and decides to migrate to purchasing LSD crystals so he could mass produce the blots and multiply his profits quickly.He had allegedly set up his own lab, where he made concoctions of sleeping pills, anti depressants and pills used for solving erectile dysfunction by mixing them in water. “Piyush dips the blotting pa per procured from Britain in the concoction and sells it to customers as LSD blot for about 90% profit,“ Reddy said. Piyush deposited money in the Munich-based Fidor Bank's account of the supplier named Bash Ltd.Though Bash Ltd's address has been mentioned as Empire Tower, Moscow, the parcel was dispatched from Germany. While trying various methods to make blots, Piyush placed an order on Darknet to procured LSD crystals from  . “Each LSD crystal, can produce about 30,000 blots,“ an official said.
 
