GUWAHATI:  's  , who was recently inducted in the  , and   on Monday filed their nominations for the  . Polling will be held on April 9. 

 Chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal, Bodoland Territorial Council chief Hagrama Mohilary, agriculture minister Atul Bora, rural development minister Naba Kumar Doley and Lakhimpur MP Pradan Barua, among others, were present during Pegu's nomination filing in Dhemaji.
 
 Pegu, who was the chief of Mising Autonomous Council, said he is confident that BJP will win the Dhemaji seat. The seat fell vacant after incumbent MLA Pradan Barua was elected as MP from the Lakhimpur parliamentary seat.
 
 Sonowal said this time, too, people of Dhemaji will support BJP because there is lot of development work which needs to be done in the assembly constituency. "Dhemaji needs development and people will vote for development," he added. 
 
 However, Pegu's nomination is being opposed by AGP leaders who are saying the regional party should have been allowed to field its candidate. AGP is a partner in the BJP-led government in the state. Earlier. some party leaders had threatened to field their own candidate.
 
 "Everything is settled now. There is no opposition to my candidature. AGP will give full cooperation in the bypoll. People are positive about my candidature," said Pegu. 
 
 Sources said that Atul Bora, who is also the president of AGP, persuaded local leaders not to oppose Pegu's candidature. 
 
 Anti-dam group Krishak Mukti Sangram Samiti (KMSS), which has a strong support base in Dhemaji and Lakhimpur districts, criticized Pegu for joining BJP. KMSS chief Akhil Gogoi said it was unfortunate that Pegu, who once opposed large dams in the northeast, has joined a party which proposes such projects in the region.
 
 Pegu, however, said he joined BJP to take part in the broader arena of politics. "I found BJP's agenda of development similar to my viewpoint. I was in Gana Shakti Party which is not a political entity in the true sense," he added. 
 
 Though the Congress candidate was not available for comments, his supporters said the party is gaining ground as BJP could not keep the promises it made during the assembly polls last year. 
 
 
