

  None of us is perfect and neither is life. There are times when work demands more of your time than family, and sometimes, your family may need you more. As long as you are conscious of this and do not completely give up one for the other, you manage both. It is not about achieving the right balance every day, but succeeding at both in the longer run. 
 
  
 
 
  Over the last 10 years, my approach to fitness has varied from casual to very serious. Currently, I prefer walking or jogging every morning as soon as I get up, and most of the time with my toddler in his stroller. It helps me feel energetic. I would like to do it every day but it is three times a week as of now. The confidence I get through my fitness routine reflects in the way I handle my team. 
 
  
 
 
  Risk-taker. If that wasn’t there I wouldn’t have started  ! I’d still be working as a CXO. Being a risk-taker has always pushed me to see beyond the norm. Having said that, micro-planning is equally important. What’s not an option ever is not planning at all.
 
  
 
 
  I maintain a positive outlook and advise others to do the same. I am usually a happy and social person and thrive on the small group of people in my personal life, and the large group of people at my workplace. My advice: Be focused, stay positive, and never quit. 
 
  
 
 
  I converse with myself and connect with my soul whenever I need solace, and that has helped me stay grounded. 
 
  
 
 
  I handle both the same way, with a glass of red wine in the evening. This helps me relax and get perspective. 
 
  
 
 
  I’ve never had a sleepless night worrying about competition. I believe we should do the best we can. I have never had a sleepless night over competition. We should do the best we can. 
 
  
 
 
  Be calm, relaxed, and collaborative. You must take control of the situation before the situation controls you.
 
 
 
 Mockingbird by  
 
  
  
  by  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 Burmese khao suey
 
  
 Spending time with my son or going out for a meal
 
  
  and the Amazon Rainforest 
 
 
