CHENNAI: Even as lawyers in several states are up in arms and are boycotting courts against the  's report suggesting sweeping Bar Council reforms and tightening conduct rules for practicing advocates, a writ petition filed in Madras high court lays bare ills of disciplinary proceedings against lawyers already suspended.

 K  , who was suspended following a lawyer-CRPF personnel tiff within a day after Madras high court came under CRPF secu rity blanket in 2015, has narrated how a sitting Lokayukta member from Bihar had been co-opted as a disciplinary committee member in violation of all mandatory norms, and how his one-year punishment is illegally sought to be extended by misinterpretation.
 
 On November 20, 2015 when a small group of lawyers protested a CISF personnel videographing the frisking of a woman advocate. It led to arguments, following which a woman CISF officer lodged a harassment complaint, and it was forwarded to Bar council for appropriate action. A batch of eight lawyers, including Muthuramalingam, was placed under suspension by an interim order on November 26, 2015. About a year later, on November 20, 2016, Karnataka Bar Council imposed one-year suspension `from the date of the order.“
 
 When Muthuramalingam, who has already suffered one-year suspension, filed an appeal in BCI, the latter constituted a committee headed by Justice   (retd.), who is a retired judge of high court of Patna.
 
 There are three anomalies in the ongoing disciplinary proceedings, according to the writ petition.
 
 One: The very constitution of the committee by the BCI is prima facie contrary to Advocates Act and   rules. There is statutory prohibition or interdiction against the sitting Lokayukta member to hold the office of chairman of the di sciplinary committee. Section 4 of the Bihar Lokayukta Act clearly prohibits him from practicing any profession. Also, except a practicing advocate, no other person can be co-opted as member of the disciplinary committee.
 
 Two: Any penal order takes into account the sentence or punishment already undergone, and it is set off against the final quantum of suspension or sentence period.In this case, since by the time final orders imposing one-year suspension was delivered in November 2016, Muthuramalingam had already served one-year in suspension. It ought to have been set off, enabling his return to profession.
 
 Three: Besides refusing to consider the one year as suspension period already undergone, the committee refused to stay the final order.
 
 Pointing to these infirmities, Muthuramalingam urged the court to grant interim injunction, restraining the disciplinary committee proceedings under the chairmanship of Justice Mihir Kumar Jha. He also urged the court to suspend the final order of the special disciplinary committee of the Karnataka Bar Council thereby permitting him to return to active practice.
 
