NEW DELHI/PATNA: Former Bihar chief minister   and wife   will now have to board and alight from flights at Patna airport like ordinary passengers after the Modi government on Friday withdrew permission for the couples’ vehicle to drive up to the tarmac, right next to the aircraft step ladder.
 
  While Lalu’s RJD termed the ministry of civil aviation’s order a “misuse of government machinery” by the Centre, the BJP welcomed it.
  
  Chief ministers’ vehicles are allowed tarmac access in their states, especially in the state capital. In fact, this facility has been extended in the past to CMs at airports outside their states too for security or health reasons. “There were no health and security reasons for extending this favour to Lalu-Rabri in 2009. This was clearly a political move by the then   government,” said a source.
  
  The letter issued on Friday was titled: “Permission to Shri Lalu Prasad and his wife Smt Rabri Devi for access in their own vehicle up to the tarmac of Patna airport during departure/arrival by air at Patna airport — regarding.”
  
  It said, “It has now been decided that the permission accorded to Shri Lalu Prasad Yadav and Smt Rabri Devi… may be withdrawn forthwith. BCAS (Bureau of Civil Aviation Security) is accordingly requested to take immediate action to issue necessary instructions this regard to all concerned.”
  
  RJD national spokesperson Manoj Jha said, “The privilege of direct access to the tarmac at Patna airport was extended to Laluji and Rabriji because of the threat perception on them. We would like to know if any critical enquiry was done before lifting the privilege. If not, then it shows the mindset of the central government that it can go to any extent to harass its political opponents.”
  
  While Lalu resigned as Bihar CM in July 1997 after getting embroiled in the fodder scam and Rabri Devi’s third term as CM ended in March 2005. Lalu’s RJD is an alliance partner of the   and remains firmly with the Congress now. In 2009, the Congress-led UPA had granted the Yadav couple’s vehicle tarmac access at Patna airport. This was enabled by an aviation security (AVSEC) circular issued on August 1, 2009.
  
  Senior BJP functionary and leader of opposition in Bihar legislative council Sushil Kumar Modi said the privilege should have been withdrawn long ago. “The privilege of direct entry was extended to Lalu-Rabi during the regime of UPA government in the year 2009, when Lalu was also a member of Parliament. However, now that he is not an elected representative anymore, thus the privilege should have been withdrawn long ago. It is welcome step taken by the Narendra Modi government to end VIP-culture,” he told TOI.
