KOLKATA:   is the first app-cab aggregator in the city to introduce   services on fixed routes—mostly to and from the IT hubs—complete with Wi-Fi services on the go and the cool comfort of an air-conditioner, all at an affordable rate. Nearly 70% of daily commuters here have started using the   services, connecting airport, Ranikuthi and Parnashree with New Town, Sector V and Bantala.

 Both Uber and Ola, the most popular aggregators in the city, have been eyeing the segment for a while, aiming to bring commuters and chartered bus operators together on their platforms for a convenient commute. 
 
 Even the transport department seemed quick to realise its advantage in easing snarls and was ready to amend the Motor Vehicles Act to accommodate the services. “This transport service falls under the category for contract carriages. The permit-holder can operate a vehicle after signing a contract with his clients for a fixed destination within or outside the state. This agreement will have to be executed between the clients and operators and the driver should have a list of passengers,” said a transport official.
 
 Booking a seat on the bus is similar to that reserving an app-based taxi. A commuter will have to mention his/her point of pick-up and destination on the app. If a bus is available on the route around the preferred time, the commuter can reserve a seat on it. Just like a cab, he/she can track the bus on the mobile app map and leave for the stop just before its arrival. 
 
 For the transport department, the new service is a win-win situation. “We are trying out ways to decongest the city by discouraging people to travel in their cars, which carry fewer passengers but occupy most space on the road. The app-based bus system can assure a passenger of the availability of a mode of transport and a comfortable seat. This would mean more and more people would use the buses rather than their cars, helping ease snarls on the roads,” said an official.
 
 An Ola official promised a fixed rate. “At whatever time you choose to travel with us, there will be no hidden or ride-time charges,” he said.
 
 
