You wouldn't want to mess with kids on a football pitch. Their competitive spirit is huge, much like their oversized jerseys. Innocent as they may be, they hate finishing second best, as in the case with most adults.

 If you need an example of how fierce the action can get, look no further than the   (MSSA) ground at CST. The often rain-soaked muddy pitch turns into a battleground of sorts, especially during a title clash.
 
 Things however were a little different after the U-16 2nd Division final two years ago.   (Borivli) had just lost to Campion, but instead of being downhearted, the boys wore an untroubled look. They weren't overtly gleeful, but had the look of 'so what we didn't win, do you know what we've done to reach here?'.
 
 
 
 
 
 The previous year, they would've never dreamt of reaching the final and earning a ticket to compete with the big guns in the first division. So what happened between the two years? For starters, their school decided to undergo a massive revamp in their sporting department. They did something that schools all around the city are increasingly doing -hire an academy to train their kids in the physical education department - something that was quite non-existent as early as five years ago.
 
 For decades, most schools hire a single football coach for the entire school. He has to manage all the teams, right from the U-8s to the U-16s. More often than not, the coach's only qualification is that he's an ex-student of the school, who has only played the game at the district level. Being a certified coach wasn't always a necessary criterion. As a result, the coach has too many students to take care of, and mind you, he doesn't even have certified training to coach the kids What can an academy change in one year is the next question on one's mind?
 
 "Everything" is what  , co-founder of ProForce, the organization which the Borivli school hired, says.
 
 "Schools hire a Physical Trainer (PT) who has either done his Bachelor's in Physical Education (B. Ped) or Masters in Physical Education (M. Ped). While that is essential to teach kids the right kind of movement and exercises, it's not enough when it comes to games like football, cricket, table tennis et al where you need specialized coaches," Kocharekar says.
 
 So what do organizations like his offer?
 
 "We don't do anything extravagant. We do things that should've been done many years ago. Firstly, we provide the schools with coaches who have played the sport at the national level. Remember, children are inspired by anecdotes. Not just that, only a person who has lived the challenges can empathize with a player, especially a kid."
 
 Neharika Singh, assistant manager of sports development at   says the main difference between agencies and normal coaching is the assessment part.
 
 "Apart from getting coaches from Europe and USA, we ensure that we have assessments every three months. By doing so, parents know the progress of their child. When you get the parents involved, the child is motivated to perform."
 
 Quite often, it's the simple things that make the most difference. Like Kocharekar says, having basic equipment is essential. "Equipment is an important aspect. I'm not talking about fancy equipment. Having the same number of footballs as the number of kids at training shouldn't be considered a luxury.
 
 "Apart from the physical aspect, we also give the kids theory lessons on the sport. It's so important for a kid to know why is he doing a certain exercise of drill. More importantly, and what's really lacking, was a proper nutritionist. The kids are told what to eat and their diet is monitored progressively."
 
 
 
 
 Not everything is rosy however, as the head of a reputed academy found out. While her academy was roped in to coach a number of top schools in south Mumbai, they had to withdraw in a couple of years.
 
 "I believe that academies should have full access to the students in order to produce results. What happened in our case is that PT teachers used to feel that we were sidelining them. They used to convince the kids against coming to us for training and used to bad-mouth us to the principle," she says, preferring that we don't mention her name.
 
 
 
 
 While hiring academies/organizations to take care of the sporting department is proving fruitful, one school that keeps on showing that in-house coaching can also make a school into a sporting 'superpower' is Don Bosco, Matunga.
 
 In the past decade and a half, the school has dominated MSSA tournaments in football, hockey and other sports. They're always the favourites coming into any tournament and their loss makes bigger news than their victory. The results they've achieved weren't got overnight, though.
 
 What is it exactly that sets them apart?
 
 In the year 1991, they started a 'D' division from standard 2-9 in which all the sportspersons were put. Of course, you have to undergo a tough selection process in the summer holidays to qualify for the division.
 
 What difference does it make one would ask?  , an august figure, who has been coaching the school for the past 25 years, explains the concept.
 
 "Kids in our sports division basically are the ones representing our school in various sports. We understand that we need to make certain exceptions for them, like they need to go for matches when there are exams going on. We give them a little leeway in that sense.
 
 "The boys in the sports division get to play the sport they're selected in for two hours every day. Did you hear any school including such a thing in their timetable?" Like the academies do, the Matunga school too involves the parents greatly.
 
 "For every match our school plays, you'll see so many parents come to watch, even if their kid isn't playing. They don't interfere with the coaching, but instead help us whenever needed. Not only the parents, even the priests are so involved in the running of the sports department. It's a kind of a family set-up, and that's why we're so successful," Machado says. 
 
 
 
