KOLHAPUR: The civic body is going to tie up with   ( ) to draft plan for addressing garbage woes faced by the citizens. The decision was taken during the   meeting held on Friday.

 The central government is going to fund the TCS for drafting a detailed plan under the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan. The firm will have to draft the DPR in next two months and suggest measures to address the garbage concerns for the next 20 years. For implementation of the plan, the centre and the state government are going to release 50% of the total cost and the   (KMC) will have to spend the rest 50% to achieve the goals.
 
 Civic chief P Siva Sankar said the state authorities floated the idea to draft a plan for 20 years in a meeting held at Mumbai on Thursday and subsequently the issue was placed before the standing committee.
 
 “The firm will suggest measures for door to door collection of the waste, transportation and 100% processing of the waste in the DPR. Once the DPR is drafted, it will be submitted to the state government for funds. Since the planning for next 20 years will be considered while drafting the project report, it is an ambitious project for us,” he said.
 
 The KMC has already initiated the process to achieve the targets of its Zero Waste Plan. The work such as setting up of decentralised units for the treatment of the waste, appointing the rag-pickers associations for ensuring door-to-door collection of the waste and awareness campaigns to reduce the waste at the source point have been proposed in the Zero Waste Plan. Sankar believes that the plan drafted few years ago has not been implemented properly.
 
 “The Zero Waste Plan in place has not been implemented properly and requires an upgrade. The awareness campaigns are going on across the city and the action against the plastic waste is being taken,” said Sankar.
 
 Also, the members of the standing committee requested the administration that their suggestions should be taken into consideration while drafting the DPR. “We will conduct meetings with the consultancy officials to suggest measures and inputs which will help them draft the plan immediately. Also, we will have to ensure that the implementation of the plan should be smooth and more allocations should be made in the budgets,” said Sandip Nejdar, chairman of the committee.
 
