BENGALURU: Despite concerns over slowing smartphone sales globally and local e-tailers looking to reduce their dependence on this low-margin category, mobile phones have again emerged as the core driver of growth during the ongoing summer sale season for both   and  .

 Home-grown online retailer Flipkart, which has gained market share over the last two quarters in smartphones against Amazon, is expected to have clocked Rs 800-1,000 crore gross sales from mobiles during its ongoing Big 10 festival. In ecommerce parlance, gross sales or gross merchandise value (GMV) is the overall sales generated on an online platform, without factoring in discounts and returns, out of which e-tailers take home any where between 5% and 20% as their margins, depending on the category.
 
 Flipkart’s rival Amazon offered multiple discounts on top selling brands and   iPhone7 for its Prime subscribers even after concluding its four-day Great Indian sale. Over the last one year, e-tailers have been talking about reducing their reliance on smartphones to boost revenues as they try to push other categories like fashion, large appliances and daily consumables, which have better gross margins. But the shopping trends have not changed dramatically as is apparent from the ongoing sale. Flipkart on day one sold over 7 lakh smartphones, executives tracking the shipment numbers said, which is about thrice as much as the usual mobile sales across offline and online channels in a day across the country. Amazon, too, witnessed an over seven times higher sales in its smartphone business on the first day of its sale.
 
 While Amazon has been investing aggressively in the country, the recent fundraise of $1.4 billion by Flipkart has resulted in the domestic e-tailer matching up with steep discounts to win market share in the smartphone category, which gives an instant bump-up to sales. Players like Flipkart and   had gained disproportionately from mobile phone sales during the frenetic paced growth of the Indian ecommerce industry in 2014-15.
 
 Cut to 2017: Flipkart claimed that Amazon, through its Prime programme, started aprice war for certain smartphones even after their sale had concluded. Amazon, however, without reacting directly, said that the company runs Prime special discounts throughout the year regardless of sale events and it will continue to do so.
 
 Ayyappan R, Flipkart’s director for the smartphone category, said the company widened its play by focusing on the premium range of phones as they offer better margins. Throughout last year, both Amazon and Flipkart were vying for exclusive deals on mobile launches. “First time customers opted to buy smartphones as we saw a 50% increase over our January sale.   sales grew 40 times during this sale, making it one of the top selling categories,” said Arun Srinivasan, director, category management, wireless, Amazon India.
 
