BHOPAL: A day after an adult tiger was found dead under mysterious circumstances near Midghat area of Sehore district forest officials said the big cat was starving and was stuck in the slush while crossing the water body. The paws of the tiger was stuck in the mud and officials concluded it to be natural death.

 “There is no poaching angle in this case. Post-mortem report confirms that the tiger was hungry for many days. It’s a natural death,” said R S Alawa, DFO Sehore.
 
 A leopard was also found dead near the same spot and many suspected that the water body was poisoned.
 
 This is the third tiger to have died in the state in the last two months, and, 34th death since 2016. Last big cat death was of a tigress — coded T1 — found near Sarvahi village in Shahdol district on January 21. Meanwhile, another leopard was reported dead from Seoni district. Investigations are underway.
 
 “Tiger was found around 20 meters from leopard's carcass near a pool of water,” said R P S Yadav, RPF sub-inspector told TOI. A wrong chain fencing around the Midghat railway track was a major reason behind frequent animal deaths at this spot. Now the officials are trying to put up a new fencing, said sources.
 
 Earlier in 2015 another adult tiger, who was hit by a speeding train at the same spot, had succumbed to injuries. The tiger was found on the same place near the Midghat area of Sehore district, close to Ratapani forest area, which still awaits a notification as a tiger reserve from the state government.
 
 Ratapani, which recorded a population of eight breeding tigers in the area, has not yet been notified as a tiger reserve despite an in-principle approval from   ( ) in 2008. Ratapani is spread over 890 sqkm in Bhopal-Raisen forest division.
 
 This is being delayed to facilitate developmental projects in the area. NHAI wants to widen the existing 4/6 lane NH-12 section from Bhopal to Bareli through Ratapani. There's also upgradation work on Obaidullagunj to Rehti road that passes through Ratapani.
 
 Recently, Madhya Pradesh high court admitted a petition over delay in notifying Ratapani area as a tiger reserve. The petition was moved by RTI activist Ajay Dubey through his counsel Siddhartha Radheylal Gupta. Notices were served on department of forest, PCCF Wildlife, State Wildlife Board, National Tiger Conservation Authority and environment ministry asking them to reply as to why the proposed Ratapani reserve has not been notified till date despite approval NTCA.
 
 A proposal for notification of Ratapani as a tiger reserve was moved in backdrop of rising tiger population in the sanctuary and big cats repeatedly straying into Kerwa forests in Bhopal district. This was constricting tiger habitat and resulting in man-animal conflict.
 
 
