BELAGAVI: Her husband sacrificed his life protecting the motherland and she has been involved in spreading the word about leading a   to people in search of positivity. 

 Bina was married to Flight Lieutenant Subramaniam Muhilan who served with the   for six years. He flew helicopters and was known for his brave missions against Pakistan in 1999. His copter was downed by a US-made Stinger missile and he died. It was very tough time for Bina and their son Dhruv was the main reason for her to soldier on in life.
 
 To overcome her sorrow, Bina attended sessions of spiritual guru Sirshree at Tej Gyan Foundation in Pune. She found fulfillment in life and embarked on a journey towards self-realization and understanding the purpose of life.
 
 Now, Bina runs the Anand   at her residence on Mandoli Road, Belagavi where she organises free of cost sessions of spirituality, yoga, Garbha Sanskar, an Ayurvedic method for pregnant women to have a healthy baby, so that others know the secrets of leading a positive and healthy life. 
 
 Nayeem Shaikh, 35, who teaches yoga to army profesionals at the Maratha Light Infantry Regimental Centre, Shivkumar Rudraxi, 36, another yoga teacher from Bagalkot who has taught yoga to people in Bangkok for the past nine years and ayurvedic doctor Dr Jyoti More who gives sessions on ayurvedic measures to be taken during pregnancy, have joined Bina to conduct these sessions under one roof.
 
 Yoga, happy thoughts programmes, body massage, foot reflexology and garbh sanskar workshops have been planned to create a common platform. There are no fees for weekend sessions, except for the maintainance charges. "We want people to embrace the blissful essence of yoga in their daily lives. In ayurveda, one can impart the wisdom to the baby before its birth. Garbh sanskar will help the pregnant woman reduce the pain of pregnancy," said Dr Jyoti. 
 
 Nayeem said, "Religion was never a hurdle to learn good things. Many Muslims have accepted yoga and practice it at home. Yoga has become a universal exercise to lead a happy and healthy life."
 
 This centre, which opened a few months ago, has become very popular in people. About 150 people participate in the sessions on weekends.
 
 
