BENGALURU: Chief minister Siddaramaiah on Monday claimed his government had fulfilled the mission of hunger-free Karnataka during its tenure of over four years as the state had not witnessed any death due to starvation.“During our tenure of four years and four months, we have fulfilled almost all promises made before the last elections.Now, it's time to look forward and plan for the future. We'll prepare a draft document by December that will look ahead for the state's development for the next seven years,“ said Siddaramaiah after launching Nava Karnataka 2025 Project.

 He said the programme will be inclusive and officials will tour the districts to collect opinions from stakeholders, including the common man, experts and the people's representatives.
 
 While this project launch comes ahead of next year's assembly elections and is seen as his move to counter Prime Minister  's announcement of Nava Bharath Nirman, Siddaramaiah said the document will be part of the   election manifesto.
 
 “I wouldn't like to say this is an exercise to prepare our election manifesto.But, yes, it'll be the part of the manifesto.We'll include salient features of the vision document in the manifesto for the assembly elections,“ he said. Explaining the welfare schemes his government has implemented so far, Siddaramaiah said his government was distributing 7kg of free rice to 1.8 crore households covering over 4 crore people of the state's 6.5 crore population. He said the government has built 12 lakh houses for the poor to realise a hutmentfree state. He said milk is being distributed to schoolchildren five days a week covering 1.4 crore children. He claimed the government has irrigated 6.5 acres and spent Rs 60,000 crore for it.
 
 To a query about employment generation, industry minister   said 12 lakh jobs have been created.“While the national average has been negative, Karnataka has been positive in job creation,“ said Deshpande.
 
 
 
 
 Siddaramaiah said Nargund taluk will be declared an open defecation free taluk on Tuesday by vice-president M   in Gadag. The chief minister said 114 taluks will be declared open defecation free on October 2. By   next year, the entire state will be free of open defecation, he added.
 
 
 
 
 Chief minister Siddaramiah said the state government was not considering getting a bullet train to Karanataka as it was not a priority right now.
 
