KOLKATA: Union politics has now hit the app cab sector, the only section of the city's transport system that was hitherto untouched by this plague.

 Kolkata on Tuesday saw twin firsts that would leave the average commuter extremely worried. One, a section of app cab drivers went on an impromptu strike, making it the first time that app cab drivers have struck work in Kolkata.Two, the protest was public -for everyone to see right at the Ballygunge Phanri crossing.The office gates of a service provider was blocked as the protesters banded together under an umbrella association, Joint Council of Luxury Taxi Association. Cops had to be deployed as the driver-partners shouted slogans, presenting a scene associated more with locked-out mills and factories.
 
 The unannounced strike against Uber ended with the   lodging a diary at the Gariahat police station for Uber's alleged defrauding. The other major app-cab platform, Ola, was not affected on Tuesday but driver-partners pre sent on both platforms said it was only a matter of time that it, too, got sucked into the union-protest vortex as its business model was similar to Uber's. Delhi, Bengaluru and Hyderabad have already seen strikes by app cab operators.
 
 Commuters bore the brunt of the strike on Tuesday but it was the long-term implications that would have them even more worried. Uber and Ola, hitherto untouched by union stirs, have become more of a necessity now, with the traditional yellow cabs -a quintessential Kolkata symbol ­ being more in the news for strikes, refusals, rogue drivers and tampered meters. The commuters' growing preference for app cabs has led to a surge in op erators applying for permits; the last two years have seen the transport department issuing 25,000.
 
 So for app cabs, too, to be dragged into union-sponsored protests may indicate the start of lines getting blurred. The signs were all too visible on Tuesday: passengers facing immense problems in hiring a cab, sometimes not getting a taxi at all and then going back to the yellow cabs to be fleeced by their drivers. “I waited for hours but could not find a single app cab in the vicinity of Kasba around noon. I finally got a yellow cab after five refusals and had to pay Rs 200 more than the fare on the meter,“ said  . Similar complaints poured in from Dum Dum,   and Ultadanga.
 
 Uber acknowledged there was a problem. “We are in constant touch with our driver partners and are always open to feedback and suggestions. We have been addressing their questions individually and will continue to do so as we remain committed to keeping the city of Kolkata moving,“ said a Uber spokesperson.
 
 Trouble has been brewing for a couple of months as Uber slashed the fat incentives with which it had initially lured business -offering promises of earnings up to Rs 80,000-100,000 a month to owner-cum-driver partners and rides of Rs 4-Rs 6km to commuters -to drive the shift from metered taxi transport to 'affordable' air-conditioned rides.
 
 “Till four months ago, Uber offered Rs 3,500 as daily incentive to cabs that did 14 trips, irrespective of the fare. That has now stopped. If one does 14 trips now, the earning is Rs 2,200. Minus the fuel cost, driver salary and other expendables, there isn't much left. Moreover, Uber is deducting 24.5% from the total billed amount. Many are facing problems repaying the car loan,“ said Indranil Banerjee, a joint secretary of JCTA, who has a car on the Uber platform.
 
 Owners and drivers also pointed out the compliance benchmark for the incentives was so high, often it was impossible to meet them. For instance, between Monday and Thursday , Uber offers an incentive of Rs 3,000 if a vehicle does 60 trips. Even a trip less and the incentive drops to Rs 500. On Friday, Saturday and Sunday , the incentive is Rs 2,000 on 48 trips. Again, the incentive is slashed to Rs 500 if the trip count is less.
 
