The state budget, which satisfies expectations of the majority of the population, revolves around   though it has other sources of revenue. It predicts a revenue deficit of 2.41% and a fiscal deficit of 3.44%. These are within the expected range and doesn't signal any fiscal danger in the near future.

 When we go into the details of the budget, we can see that KIIFB is a dream which has to become a reality. Last year, in the budget, KIIFB was projected as a special purpose vehicle. It is an SPV that is expected to mobilize resources through funding from NRIs by forming chit funds of KSFE.
 
 
 
 
 Through this chit funds, the finance minister wants to mobilize Rs 12,000 crore this year for various projects and ensure Rs 50,000 crore over the next five years for several infrastructural projects. The aim is to ensure a world class infrastructure sector here.
 
 But, what about the 'crushing problem' faced by the people of Kerala? The LDF had promised in its manifesto that they will arrest price hike for five years.Unfortunately, LDF failed to keep its promise.
 
 The government was unable to check the price of essential commodities, especially rice and sugar. While the retail price index in India is 3.67%, it is much above the national average in Kerala.This is against the expectations given in the budget and the LDF manifesto. LDF is trying to strengthen food security by allocating Rs 900 crore for ration subsidy and Rs 700 crore for paddy procurement. Additionally, Rs 117 crore has been sanctioned for the new rationing system.
 
 A total of Rs 1,917 crore has been set apart for food security and   has also been given top priority. But, we will have to wait and see whether this mission mode will resolve the price rise of essential commodities.
 
 Though   has announced a gender budget, the priority given is not sufficient. He has mentioned that 11.5% of the budget allocation is for projects from which women will benefit. But this allocation is spread across various lines of expenditure and the fructification of anyone will be very minimal. If gender has to get equity and equality, there should be more capital investment. It is seen that more capital is invested in the field of health education for boys than the girls.
 
 If you take the enrolment rate of girls in professional courses, you can see that only 30% of the girls are getting admitted. At the same time, in arts and science colleges 70% of the seats are occupied by girls. This shows that there is a gender disparity in the capital infusion in the field of health and education.
 
 The work force participation rate for women and men are 17.1% and 57.1% respectively. Even though there is no disparity in the literary standards of men and women, there is a gender disparity in the work participation force. This has to be rectified and only then women empowerment and gender budgeting will have any meaning.
 
