The 12th edition of Habitat Film Festival was inaugurated recently with a retrospective segment dedicated to   by director  . The festival, which will screen around 60 movies, was inaugurated by paying a tribute to the actor who passed away in April this year. 

  Nihalani, who has worked with Om Puri in movies like 'Tamas', 'Aghaat', 'Droh Kaal' and many more, paid tribute to the actor. The first movie to be screened at the fest was 'Tamas'. The director not only spoke about the relationship he had with Om Puri, but also gave insights into his life. 
 
  
  The festival started with a screening of Om Puri's movie 'Tamas', which was directed by Govind Nihalani (BCCL/ Samik Sen)
 
 
  "Ek tarah ka relationship nahin tha Om Puri ke saath. It was a relationship of a friend, director-actor, a critic, and a creator, for both sides. We were very open on commenting on each other's work and the most important part was when we used to just hang out together. I can't describe the relationship in these terms because these terms are not enough. He has recently departed and his memories are all around, it has not been reduced to small memories yet," he told us.
 
  While addressing the audience, the director told everyone that since Om Puri was born in the 1950s, three years after the Partition, nothing came easy to him and that struggle was evident in his work as well. "A lot went into the making of Om as a human being. I was speaking at some other event when someone asked me, 'Om, actor kaise thay?' I took some time to explain that, and then said, 'Any good actor prepares for any role very sincerely- he works on the body language, spoken language, but a very good actor does not let you know the preparation that he has done for the role. That was Om Puri, he wouldn't let you know – woh mehnat bhi karta tha, tayyari bhi karta tha, but uska effort dikhta nahin tha, aisa tha Om Puri.' This is the quality of a very good actor who lets you forget the hard work that has gone in preparing for the role."
 
  
  
  He added that Om Puri actually was the face of the times in which he lived. "Om came to be known as the face of the times in which he lived. He played many characters in which the characters had to struggle to achieve something. These characters, like the character (Nathu) that he played in 'Tamas', actually struggled to achieve something. These showed the times in which he lived," he said.
 
 
 
  
  Rajeev Kamal, vice president, GraFTII North (alumni body of FTII Pune) and Om Puri's batchmate (BCCL/ Samik Sen)
 
 
 
