That numbers are against her notwithstanding, opposition’s presidential pick   expects an upset win for self if the electoral college members vote according to the call of their conscience. “I am trying to convince them of the virtues of our ideology... If my efforts succeed, the game of numbers in this fight between two ideologies would change,” the former   Speaker told TOI’s   in an interview on Friday. Excerpts:

 The NDA has the majority in the electoral college and you seem set to be defeated by  . What message you want to send out by contesting this election?
 
 I am repeatedly saying that this contest is between two ideologies. The good ideology has to fight the bad ideology, irrespective of the outcome of the fight. I am trying to appeal to the inner voice of parliamentarians and MLAs. If this inner voice prevails, the numbers you are referring to become unimportant.
 
 Do you think the NDA has fielded Kovind to neutralise the purported anger over incidents of atrocities against dalits? Certain netas say the BJP is also trying to woo Kovind’s Koli community, which is an important OBC vote bank in poll-bound Gujarat...
 
 Ours is a country which dreams of progress and modernity and which aspires to move forward. Ironically, it is yet to throw off the yoke of casteism. Caste is now outdated and it is a paradox that though we want to progress, we do not want to change our casteist mindset. It pains me to know that certain quarters are projecting the contest for the country’s highest office as a dalit-versus-dalit fight.
 
 I have never made any personal comment on my political rivals and, therefore, I won’t enlighten you on why the NDA fielded a particular candidate. I am focussing on the ideology for which I am fighting. But yes, incidents of atrocities on dalits and minorities are on the rise and that pains people like me. I expect the government to act immediately and effectively to prevent such incidents.
 
 But you cannot deny that the opposition also nominated you as a dalit card, that you are a highly-educated woman and a former Indian Foreign Service official apart...
 
 It depends on which side of the fence you are and how you look at it. There could be people who look at it as an attempt to recognise dalits who have been deprived of opportunities and have suffered over the centuries. It’s the need of the hour to give them opportunity, respect and dignity. 
 
 However, I personally object to the caste tag. Caste was never discussed when upper caste candidates were in the presidential fray in the past. But it is being discussed when my honourable rival and I are taking on each other. That our society thinks on these lines is unfortunate.
 
 Bihar CM   and his JD (U), despite not being an NDA ally, have refused to support you. How do you describe the JD (U) stand?
 
 Such things are not uncommon in politics. Our President’s is not a political position, but the process of electing the President is political in nature.
 
 If you win, you will be the second woman after Pratibha Patil to occupy the Rashtrapati Bhawan. Will this have any special meaning for the fair sex of the country?
 
 By using ‘if’, you made your question a hypothetical one. What answer can be given to a hypothetical question... I have always worked with commitment and sincerity for the downtrodden irrespective of their caste, creed and gender. Wherever I am, I will continue to work like that.
 
