While rising ocean temperatures and pollution a returning colourful coral reefs into skeletal structures, National Centre for Sustainable Coastal Management ( ) in Chennai is trying to ensure that tourism doesn't add to the crisis.

 Researchers have come up with a data monitoring system that can point out sensitive marine ecosystems and help identify places apt for underwater tourism.
 
 Three buoys -in the  , near   and Lakshadweep islands -floated by the institute in 2015 have been recording data, which has helped warn local authorities of coral bleaching.
 
 Explaining how real-time monitoring of coral reefs in   in Lakshadweep helped, NCSCM director R   said, “When the data was analysed, researchers were able to identify suitable places for activities such as scuba diving, snorkelling and glass-bottom boat operations. 
 
 With the data the scientists were able to even assess the carrying capacity of the tourism zone in Kavaratti, “ he said.
 
 Similarly, in the Gulf of Mannar, the monitoring of coral reefs showed factors such as high sedimentation, anthropogenic pressures and natural causes had slowed down regeneration, he said.
 
 “For the first time coral reef colonies in three places in the country are being monitored on a real-time basis.
 
  No other government agency has long-term data on coral reef habitats, which are known as underwater gardens,“ Ramesh said.
 
 The floating buoys can help identify the minutest changes in the coral ecosystem. While the environmental parameters are received from the buoys, the ecological parameters are collected by researchers through professional scuba divers.
 
 The buoys are fitted to nine sensors, which record parameters such as water temperature, pH balance, salinity, dissolved oxygen, turbidity, suspended solids and chlorophyll.
 
 One of the main parameters collected from the buoys is the sea surface temperature. 
 
 “ This indication will help in understanding whether the corals will bleach or not during the particular period, “ he said. Stressing on the importance of monitoring sea surface temperatures, Ramesh points out that last year the sea surface temperature had gone up by 4°C and corals had bleached; but since this year there has been hardly any temperature rise and no coral bleaching in the Gulf of Mannar.
 
 The monitoring system has also helped identify new species of flora and fauna. While Gulf of Mannar and Lakshadweep has 115 species of corals, in the Andamans more than 300 species were found. The information has also helped put the Andamans and the Gulf of Mannar the marine ecosystems under the protected category, where tourism or other commercial activities are not allowed.
 
