LUCKNOW: Polling will be held in 49 seats on Saturday in the crucial sixth phase of   in UP which is considered a “make or break“ round for the three key players, BJP, SP-Congress and BSP. 

 While SP-Congress faces the challenge to repeat its performance in 2012 assembly polls when it won 31 of these seats, BJP is hoping for a Hindu consolidation to wrest control of the region where its firebrand Gorakhpur MP Yogi Adityanath holds sway in many seats. BSP chief Mayawati is hoping that her strategy of dalit-Muslim political engineering outsmarts the rivals.
 
 Known as badlands of eastern UP where making distinction between politicians and bahubalis is difficult, the region has substantial number of Muslims, Brahmins, dalits and most backward classes (MBCs), while Yadavs and Bhumihars hold sway in some pockets.
 
 The seven agriculturally rich but backward districts covered in the sixth phase are Maharajganj, Gorakhpur, Kushinagar, Deoria, Azamgarh, Mau and Ballia.
 
 The phase includes nine assembly seats in Gorakhpur, which has elected Adityanath as its Lok Sabha MP since 1998, and 10 seats in Azamgarh, from where SP patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav was elected in 2014.
 
 In 2012, SP won 27, Congress 4, BSP 9 and BJP 7 constituencies, while Qaumi Ekta Dal (QED) and Nationalist Congress Party got one seat each. owever, BJP dominated H the 2014 Lok Sabha polls and was ahead in 42 as sembly segments. SP led in just 6 assembly seats, including five in Azamgarh, and Congress one. The BSP is contesting on all 49 seats, BJP on 45 and its ally Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP) on four, SP on 40 and Congress on 10. SP and Congress are engaged in a “friendly fight“ in Khajani (SC) seat in Gorakhpur.
 
 Besides polarization of Hindu votes, BJP is banking on its allies, SPBP and Apna Dal. On the other hand, to sway Muslims, Mayawati has placed her bet on Ansari brothers' QED and Rashtriya Ulema Council (RUC). QED merged with BSP just before campaigning while RUC withdrew its candidates and announced support to Mayawati. SP-Congress alliance is hoping that Akhilesh government's achievements would give it an edge in the contest.
 
 Jailed mafia don Mukhtar Ansari, who is fighting from Mau, is among the VIPs whose fate would be sealed on Saturday.
 
