The couple who tied the knot on June 29, 2012, enjoy travelling and have been to a lot of countries, but this trip was special and   wanted to go somewhere new for her Baby-moon. 

 "Greece was recommended by friends and since we both like tropical countries and the beach, it was the perfect getaway," smiles Esha radiating the glow of pregnancy.
 
  
  
 Leaving nothing to chance, the actress who is expecting her first child towards the year-end, researched every detail of her maternity shoot online, from clothes to locations, and even set up an appointment with a local photographer, Dimitris Psillakis, who specialised in such shoots. 
 
 After some serious thought, she zeroed in on the island of Santorini as the village of Oia there is famous for its sunsets the world over. "Tourists come to the sunset points hours in advance to get themselves a good perch and the best possible view and selfies. But since it can get a little too crowded then, our photographer advised me to catch the sunrise instead, pointing out that at 6.30 am the light is best," she reminisces.
 
 This meant waking up at 5 am and getting ready without a hair-dresser, make-up man or spot boy. "It was just   and me and he helped me iron my dresses, carried my stuff on the VIP ferry and even helped me change," she smiles, adding that she did her hair and make-up on her own. 
 
 "I had bought along the two changes in a separate bag, including the wreath on my head. Dimittis was good and we were done by 9.30 am. I would suggest that every parents- to-be get a maternity shoot done to smile over with their child in later years."
 
 While most tourists are gung-ho about Athens and The Acropolis, Esha found the steep climb up the hill to the ancient citadel was too difficult to negotiate in her condition. Even Mikonos, crowded with honeymooning couples and young Indian girls who had come there for bachelorettes, while hip and happening, was not the place for an expectant mother and Esha was happy to leave it for Santorini which she describes as a "fairyland" with its famous whitewashed homes, painted regualrly by the house-proud owners.
 
 She met many friendly pregnant women there who would ask her if she was having a son or a daughter. 
 
 "I’d say we were waiting for the baby to arrive to know its gender, explaining that sex determination tests are banned in India because of the high incidence of female infanticide. They were shocked to learn that in our part of the world the girl child is not always welcome. It makes me sad too. I hope that one day soon, this discrimination ends," sighs Esha.
 
 Her mood brightens up when she remembers one particular meal in a local café. Given her South Indian taste buds, she found the local cuisine bland and was craving for something hot, with lots of green chillies, when one night she found herself without transportation as her brother-in-law had gone sightseeing with the car.
 
  She was ravenous and cranky as it was around 10.30 pm. "We were walking around when Bharat and I walked stumbled upon this quaint café. I marched in looking murderous. The chef shot Bharat a sympathetic look, admitting his wife was pregnant too and he knew what he was going through. He then asked me what I wanted. I was craving for something really spicy and told him so. I think he dumped all his masalas into the spaghetti he prepared specially for me. It was finger-licking good, the best meal I had in a long time. I came out beaming," she flashbacks, adding that another Greek practice that always put a smile on her face was giving out free desserts after a meal.
 
  "It was usually crème brulee and sometimes my favourite chocolate mousse. And that gave our Baby-moon its sweet touch."
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
