NAGPUR: The transport department of Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) on Saturday introduced three new routes of the   bus services from Sitabuldi to Om Nagar, New Mhada Colony and Bhilgaon via Kamptee Road. 

 Early this week, the NMC introduced new   routes to five places from Sitabuldi. The move is aimed at helping people travelling to localities in the outskirts of the city for work.
 
 The buses to be operated on Bhilgaon, 11.8km route, will make 10 trips and cover Bhilgaon, Kamptee Road, Indora and Sitabuldi from 6am to 8.25pm. The fare for a half-ticket will be Rs7 while Rs13 will be charged for a full ticket.
 
 On the 10.1km Om Nagar to Sitabuldi route, the bus will make 10 trips and will ply between the two destinations via Gaddigodam, Indora Chowk, Nara, Amar Jyoti Nagar and Shivgiri Colony. Fare will be the same as that of Sitabuldi-Bhilgaon route.
 
 On the 11.5km route from Sitabuldi to New Mahada Colony, the bus will make 10 trips. The bus will halt at Gaddigodam, Indora Chowk and Ramai Nagar. 
 
 Transport committee chairman Bunty Kukde said such bus services will be increased on new routes based on patronage and revenue. 
 
 The move has brought cheer on the face of many commuters, especially students and office-goers, of the localities concerned. The residents of the Bhilgaon locality situated on Kamptee Road had to travel three kilometres on foot to catch a bus. But now the facility has brought smile on their face, said Kukde.
 
 He further said new routes are introduced on the basis of commuters’ feedback. “We took a field study in the area and determine its necessity. Then, a test run on a route was done for a few weeks before the final introduction of the services,” he said, adding, “demands for connecting Friends Colony to railway station and bus stop will be addressed with small buses, soon.
 
 Ramesh Phulpagare, a resident of Bhilgaon, said, “Though there has been a demand for operation of bus   to the village for several years. It was delayed due to various reasons including no proper roads. But now the connectivity will be more beneficial for school and college-going children.”
 
 Shailendra Tiwari, a resident of Om Nagar and an IT professional, said it is useful for commuters to get to locations on this route as till date the area has no city bus connectivity.
 
 
