AHMEDABAD: A youth who was stabbed multiple times and was fighting for life got his   recorded. In his final hours, Brijesh Yadav, 26, of Saraspur area, asked his friend to record his declaration on a mobile phone.

 Cops in this case went soft on the accused, allege Yadav's family members. They have alleged that before Yadav died he repeatedly told the cops that it was a case of `attempt to murder', but the police allegedly showed apathy and registered a case of injury under Section 326 of the IPC.Yadav had been stabbed thrice in the abdomen on December 24 and succumbed to his injuries on December 29.
 
 Ironically, this case comes close on the heels of the new city police commissioner's appeal to his subordinates to be compassionate towards complainants.
 
 The deceased's kin alleged that even after the   officials were told that the youth had been stabbed thrice, they registered the complaint under Section 326 of the IPC.
 
 In-charge PI of Sheherkotda police station J A Rathava claimed that after Yadav's friend had recorded his statement they too filmed his statement. Rathava conceded that the case should have been registered under sections of attempt to murder.
 
 Though the audio of the video is unclear, Yadav is heard saying in Hindi that he wants justice. “Rajubhai has stabbed me in the stomach and hand. He owed some money to me. We had quarrelled earlier at Gopal Chowk as well. He had threatened to finish my family. He has stabbed me,“ Yadav is heard saying this in his statement.
 
 Vijaysingh Tomar, the official complainant in this case, has accused   put, owner of a recove ry agency, of stabbing his friend Yadav on December 24 while they were passing by Saraspur. “It has been mentioned in the complaint that both Tomar and Yadav, who used to work for Rajput's agency, left him to join another agency about four months back. Yadav was asking Rajput to clear his dues,“ said inspector Rathava.
 
 When contacted Shaherkotda police station inspector S M Chaudhary claimed that he was aware of the incident but was officially off duty hours before the incident on December 24. He claimed that he is assisting the CBI in the day-to-day court proceedings of RTI activist Amit Jethwa murder case. Chaudhary was initially a part of the  . “I don't have any idea as to how the probe into the Saraspur youth's stabbing was handled,“ Chaudhary said.
 
