NEW DELHI: The Centre is “confident” that, despite a joint   petition to the   on postponing the budget, the annual fiscal/policy exercise will be held on February 1as scheduled.
 
    announced the poll schedule for five states including politically crucial   on Thursday, and Opposition leaders have met EC, arguing for postponing the budget on the grounds that it can influence voters.
  
  But several officials in the Prime Minister’s Office and the finance ministry ET spoke to said EC as well as states had been sounded out far earlier about the budget being brought forward. And that a national budget and national economic   can’t be adjusted to state poll schedules. These officials spoke off record.
  
  The finance ministry is going about the budget-making business as per schedule, officials said. One official said: “The government can present the budget… That is the prerogative of the government… and these are assembly polls,” said a senior government official.
  
  Another official said election announcements only impose a code of conduct, and that code does not say all economic decision has to come to a standstill. “Only the code of conduct given by EC has to be followed, meaning that no scheme or any sop specific to the state going for elections can be unveiled in the budget,” he said.
  
  “Things are different if the budget clashes with the general election — state elections are perpetually on in this country and a major central government policy document cannot be delayed because of it,” a PMO functionary said. He pointed out that Prime Minister  , in an October 26, 2016, meeting, had told all state chief secretaries that the budget was being advanced “by about a month” to ensure spending starts from April 1.
  
  “All states were told to prepone their state budgets to bring them in tandem with the Central budget and there was an inprinciple agreement on the same for smooth coordination between state and central budgets.
  
  This means all political parties were aware as well…....the present protest is an afterthought,” another PMO official said.
  
  He also said EC was also sounded out on the possibility of the budget being advanced by almost a month to early February and that there was no objection from the commission.
  
  A finance ministry official said the government had started mulling the idea of an early budget as early as August 2016. The logic was to complete the entire process by March 31 so that spending can start from the first day of the new fiscal, April 1.
  
  He also said a whole set of events followed from that decision, and everyone was aware of the budget schedule.
  
  On September 21 last year, the union cabinet had endorsed the finance ministry’s plan for advancing the budget by a month. The budget circular, kick-starting the budget process, was issued a day later.
  
  In keeping with that schedule, the finance ministry had announced on November 29 last year that North Block will be out of bounds for the media from December 1till the budget day. 
