NEW  : The ongoing gangwar in southwest Delhi’s   may finally show some signs of abatement after the arrest of four sharpshooters and deputy chief of the Kapil Sangwan gang, who had recently murdered gangster Manjeet Mahal’s father, by the Special Cell on Saturday.

 Surprisingly, the gang was armed with carbines and sophisticated pistols. In all, seven semi-automatic weapons, 75 live cartridges and five fired shells were seized from the   by the police. “The gangsters fired several rounds on the police team when they were intercepted near Mitraon village on Saturday night,” said DCP (Special Cell) Sanjeev Yadav.
 
 One of the   men, Krishan alias Ankush and Bhalu, aged 28, had a reward of Rs 50,000 on his head. The other accused have been identified as Anil Sharma alias Podi (22), Deepak Maan (22), Pankaj Dagar alias Seera (37) and Deepak Sharma alias Tarun (21). Maan, Krishan and Anil had allegedly gunned down Mahal’s father Shri Kishan in January this year.
 
 Yadav said they got a tip-off about members of the Sangwan gang passing Surakhpur-Najafgarh Road in a red Volkswagen Polo on Saturday. They were headed for Mitron village.
 
 “Around 7.20pm, the car was seen coming towards Mitraon village by the raiding party. Drivers of the police vehicles blocked the Polo’s way both from the front and back. Asked to surrender, four armed occupants got off and started running in different directions. However, one remained in the car. The gangsters fired at the cops and one of the bullets hit the bulletproof vest of an assistant sub-inspector. They were soon overpowered and arrested,” Yadav said.
 
 Their interrogation has revealed that members of Mahal’s gang had been looking for an opportunity to avenge the murder of his father. The gang members had allegedly killed two members of Sangwan’s outfit earlier.
 
 Shri Kishan was murdered due to the rivalry between the gangs led by Kapil Sangwan alias Nandu and Manjeet Mahal, who are both lodged in jail. In December 2015, Sangwan’s brother-in-law, Sunil alias Doctor, was murdered in Chhawla by Mahal’s gang. In retaliation, his gang killed family members of Mahal’s associates.
 
 Sangwan was desperate to avenge the killing of his brother-in-law and regularly maintained pressure on his gang members to kill Mahal’s father. He had also made plans to kill Mahal, who is in judicial custody, when he would be produced in court.
 
 The gang had also planned to attack Mahal when he was released from custody to complete his father’s death rituals in February, but they could not succeed due to police presence.
 
 
