For  , the trip to Jodhpur’s   (BSF) training centre not only evoked a sense of patriotism, but also brought back some fond memories. The son of an Indian Army officer, it was almost as if he was revisiting his childhood. The actor visited the training centre along with his heroine  , producer Vipul Amrutlal Shah and director  , ahead of the release of their upcoming film, 'Commando 2: The Black Money Trail'. 

 
 Just after entering the BSF camp, Vidyut, Vipul, Deven and Adah paid homage to the martyrs at the memorial. The four were also taken around and shown the force’s weaponry. Adah impressed the men in uniform by lifting a heavy rifle.
 
 
 Vidyut, Adah and Vipul also interacted with the jawans. Vipul said, “Action is extremely difficult. After watching the action in our film, you will realise that Vidyut is the best action hero in the industry. I can vouch for it.”
 
 The jawans, who have won awards for their bravery, shared their tales of valour with the cast. They were very curious to know if Vidyut had actually slid under a car for an action sequence in the film. The actor replied, “I did it myself after training hard. I seek inspiration from you and look up to you. I am glad that I could make you proud with my efforts.”
 
 Vipul added, “All stunts have been performed by Vidyut himself and no VFX or cables have been used. It’s bigger and better than the first installment, Commando — A One Man Army.” When asked about his diet regimen and the decision to turn vegetarian, Vidyut replied, “A 100 push-ups can take care of everything, irrespective of whether you are a vegetarian or not.” The actor also shared an interesting anecdote. “Years ago, I had failed to clear the National Defence Academy’s entrance test. Recently, I told my mother that even though I couldn’t make it to the defence services, I have succeeded in becoming a commando,” he laughed. 
 
 
 When the reel commando was egged on to prove his mettle by performing a stunt in front of the jawans, Vidyut challenged them for a push-up contest. “Anybody who does less than 50 push-ups in a minute will have to strip,” he said, adding, “However, before we start, I would like to say that I have already lost this challenge to our jawans.”
 
 
 The visit also witnessed some fun and revelry. The lead couple danced with the jawans to Hare Ram Hare Ram, a track from their film. The surprise package of the evening was Adah, who in the middle of her performance, did a cartwheel effortlessly. She said, “One of the soldiers told me that he had seen a video of mine on a social networking site, where I was attempting some flips. He asked me if I could really do it, and I proved that I could.”
 
  
  
 
