SRINAGAR: Eight protesters were killed and more than 150 civilians and security personnel injured in unprecedented violence in central Kashmir during the byelection for the Srinagar Lok Sabha seat. The turnout, recorded at 7.45%, was the lowest ever for the constituency that had seen 25.9% polling in 2014.

 In widespread clashes with security forces, protesters tried to storm polling stations soon after voting started at 7am. Responding to the call given by Hurriyat leaders to boycott the polls, youths even tried to set ablaze booths in some areas by hurling petrol bombs.
 
 Budgam district, where six youths died in firing by security personnel, was the worst affected. Most of those killed were teenagers, one of whom was a class VI student.
 
 Police said that security forces opened fire at Beerwah, Dalwan and Wathura areas of Budgam district after mobs attacked polling stations and damaged EVMs to prevent voters from exercising their franchise.
 
 More than a dozen vehicles on election duty were torched by mobs, reports said. 
 
 A senior police officer said at least 150 polling booths were abandoned by security forces and the polling staff due to the hostile environment. 
 
 While mobs took away EVMs from dozens of booths, several polling stations were also set ablaze, said another officer.
 
 
 
 There were reports of attacks on polling staff in   district.   was called out to help police and paramilitary forces to control the mobs in areas where the stone-pelting was intense. 
 
 National Conference chief  , who is contesting against PDP’s  , blamed the ruling coalition for the violence. 
 
 “Elections should have been peaceful. This government has failed in giving a peaceful atmosphere for people to come and vote,” he said.
 
 Despite large-scale violence, the state government will go ahead with the Lok Sabha bypoll for the   seat on April 12. To a query, state’s chief electoral officer Shanthmamu said the by-election for the parliamentary seat in south Kashmir would be held on Wednesday.
 
 Meanwhile, re-polling has been ordered in 150 polling stations in the Srinagar seat which were hit by violence.
 
 Shanthmamu said of the three districts that form the parliamentary constituency, the turnout was lowest in the Srinagar district – 3.84%. Budgam district, epicentre of the violence, recorded 8.82% voting while Ganderbal saw a 14.71% turnout. Separatists have called for a complete shutdown on Monday and Tuesday against the killings.
 
 Political observer Moin Shah said the lowest-ever turnout was due to the growing anti-India sentiment in the Valley ignited by separatists following the killing of Hizb terrorist   in July 2016.
 
