INDORE: Walking into the stands at   stadium, 86-year-old MV  , who is visually impaired, was thrilled to hear the roar of “Vande Matram” being chanted and loud applause for the Indian cricket team for the blind on Thursday.

 Grabbing a seat at one of the lower stands with his wife, Shirdhonkar made sure he didn’t miss a single incident on the field as his wife kept updating him with the latest developments.
 
 “It was an opportunity to support and appreciate these players which is why I was keen to sit in the stadium to get a feel of the match. It is an inspirational moment for all as these players to overcome their barriers,” said Shirdhonkar who is a physiotherapist and rehab counselor.
 
 “Such events are important to generate awareness among the public about the difficulties that the differently-abled go through and also to show that if given an opportunity, they can do wonders,” added Shirdhonkar.
 
 However, he was not the only one who came out to support blind cricket players on Thursday. Thousands of Indoreans of all age groups thronged the stadium to witness a one of a kind cricket match.
 
 School and college students were seen applauding and cheering the cricketers of both the Indian and England teams.
 
 The scene at the stadium was similar to that of the maiden test match that was held here. Over 3000 differently abled kids from various NGO’s were also here to watch the match.
 
 However, the ones who couldn’t come to the stadium were connected via video call on match updates.
 
 “My son couldn’t come as he is out of town with relatives but he was so excited for the match that he was in touch via video call and I was explaining each and every thing that was happening,” said  , who was seen giving his live updates in sign language via video.
 
 The match began at 9.30am with the toss. “I did not know about this format of cricket but seeing them play was inspirational and amazing. I got to learn a lot from these players and I will back home with an uplifted spirit,” said  , one of the school students watching the match.
 
 
