BENGALURU: Admission processes in PU colleges may get delayed this year as thousands of   and   students are still awaiting their class 10 results.
.
 Typically , the process begins right after the SSLC results are announced. However, this time ICSE results are yet to be announced, because of which central board students may make it only to the second lists of PU colleges which are expected to put out their first list by this weekend.CBSE results are usually announced in the last week of May or first week of June, and there is no indication yet of any delay this time.
 
 “Every year, ICSE students are included in the first list because our results are announced only a few days after SSLC results. But if our results aren't announced soon, we will have to wait for the second list to be out, which is going to cause more delays and anxiety,“ said Shruthi Bansal, a student of  , who has written her ICSE exam.
 
 Officials across PU colleges are going out of their way to address the concerns of parents and students. As per rules of the department of pre-university education, colleges set aside a percentage of seats for ICSE and CBSE students which are then allotted on the basis of their scores.
 
 PES PU College, which has a branch in  , has decided to put on hold their admission lists till the results are out. “This is to accommodate more ICSE and CBSE students in the merit lists. We hope the results will be out soon,“ said  , CEO, PES Institutions. Presidency PU College has decided to facilitate more students in the list. Sunitha Hangal, principal said, “Only SSLC students who have secured above 80% will be accommodated in the first list, so the second and third lists will be more open to ICSE and CBSE students.“
 
 Uncertainty over the announcement of ICSE results is only causing more anxiety among parents and students.
 
 Said Kripa K, a parent: “What if my son doesn't get through the college of his choice? This last-minute tension is too much to handle. We could be better prepared if they would tell us when the results would be out.“
 
 “Every year, we keep aside 10% seats for CBSE and ICSE students. Even in case the results are delayed, students can still make it to the second list which will be announced a week after the first one,“ said an admissions official at Mount Carmel PU College.
 
 Colleges will have to prepare for an influx of students from both boards towards the end of the admission process. “There will be a lot of last-minute rush. Since classes are beginning only on June 10, there is enough scope to ensure a smooth process,“ said Fr  , principal, Christ Junior College.
 
