NEW DELHI: With a little over a month to go for the municipal corporation elections,   stepped up campaigning and on Sunday. Almost all   joined respective candidates on padyatras and started a massive round of door-to-door campaigning.

 ‘Mass Contact Sunday’ came days after chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, who is personally monitoring the campaign, met the MLAs and asked them to step up efforts. On Sunday, the legislators, including deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, also met volunteers and addressed small meetings in several wards. many inaugurated election offices in their areas as well.
 
 Winning the corporation election is clearly critical for the party, especially in the aftermath of its not-so-impressive performance in the Punjab assembly elections. The low morale of party volunteers is also something the leadership needs to address immediately and Kejriwal has already written a letter and addressed them separately through an hour-long video in the past five days.
 
  is also the first major party in the city to have declared a majority of its candidates — 248 candidates for the 272 seats — while both Congress and BJP are yet to come out with their lists. AAP will announce the remaining candidates within the next few days.
 
 “We will hold mass-contact campaigns every evening from now on. All candidates have been asked to undertake an extensive door-to-door campaign while we will be showing Kejriwal’s message to Delhiites through projector shows as well. All MLAs will be working with candidates to campaign in their respective constituencies. AAP’s method of campaigning for all elections has been through the micro level — with small meetings, nukkad sabhas etc. This ensures that the candidates reach out to voters in a more personalised manner,” said a party member.
 
 In the last two days, the Delhi party unit held meetings with the teams carrying out door-to-door campaigning and candidates after assessing their performance and suggested improvements. “Similar assessments were held for projector shows that are playing Kejriwal’s message for the people of Delhi. Since the beginning of March, AAP candidates and volunteers have been carrying out door-to-door campaigning to reach out to all of Delhi’s 46 lakh households. The entire exercise is expected to be completed by the first week of April,” said a source.
 
 
