NEW DELHI: Bangladesh batting twice in a day, an entertaining two hours of batting and another landmark for India's premier spinner highlighted an eventful Day 4 of the one-off Test between India and Bangladesh in Hyderabad. 

 
 
 
 Ever since   gave up on a bit of speed, his swing and accuracy have been impeccable. And on Sunday morning, the manner in which he gave India their first breakthrough, it was a fast bowler's delight. Fourth ball of the day, Bhuvneshwar bowled a delivery that was full and straight, and the ball swung back in late. Mehedi Hasan, who was unbeaten on 51 the previous day, had his feet rooted to the crease. He was uncertain the previous three balls that had also generated vicious movement. The ball kept coming in, and Mehedi was guilty of leaving a huge gap between bat and pad. Timber. It sent his leg stump cart-wheeling.
 
 
 
 
 India's premier spinner R Ashwin has crossed another landmark in his burgeoning Test career, becoming the fastest to reach 250 wickets in the game's history. With the dismissal of Bangladesh captain   on day four of the one-off Test in Hyderabad, Ashwin reached the 250-mark in his 45th Test, three fewer than Australian legend Dennis Lillee had needed to get there in February 1981.
 
 Ashwin, the top-ranked bowler and allrounder in Test cricket, entered the ongoing Bangladesh match on 248 wickets and moved to 249 with the wicket of Shakib Al Hasan in his 15th over on day three. The wait for No 250 took a while longer and eventually came on day four when Rahim looked to sweep a carrom ball but got a bit of glove and wicketkeeper Wriddhiman Saha took a good catch to end Bangladesh's first innings at 388 runs. Ashwin didn't stop there and picked up two more in the second innings.
 
 
 
 
 The Bangladesh skipper might be struggling as a captain and a wicketkeeper but as a batsman he stood between India and their quest of taking four quick wickets on the fourth morning. India would have hoped to wind up the Bangladesh innings quickly, in order to give them at least five sessions to probably bat again and then take 10 more wickets. But a splendid century by Mushfiqur, his fifth in Tests, ensured Bangladesh stretched India till the last over of the first session. 
 
 Mushfiqur's century was his fourth outside Bangladesh, and he will probably hold this one closer than the rest, purely because of his poor wicket keeping and captaincy skills while on field. Picking up from his 159 against New Zealand last month, he continued his sublime form, something that will remain key if Bangladesh are to save this Test. India's 299-run lead in the first innings meant that even though they had the option of enforcing the follow-on on Bangladesh, Kohli went against it.
 
 
 
 
 India came out with a strong reply. In exactly a session and an over, the hosts scored 159 runs before declaring at tea, setting Bangladesh 459 to get in exactly four sessions.  's second half-century of the match and a couple of entertaining knocks from   and   helped India score at over five-and-a-half runs an over.
 
 The intention was clear from the moment Kohli walked out to bat after the early wickets of Murali Vijay and KL Rahul. Kohli and Pujara went on the attack, pulling, driving and taking the aerial route. In a rarity, Pujara outpaced himself and outscored Kohli at the other end. As a very unlike-Pujara innings unfolded at the other end, Ajinkya Rahane walked out at the dismissal of Kohli and struck a few lusty blows, scoring two fours and a sweetly-timed six off Mehedi Hasan. Once he went,   scored a four and six off Shakib Al Hasan.
 
 
 
 
 Chasing 459 to win, Bangladesh's start wasn't ideal. R Ashwin removed Tamim Iqbal for his second failure in the match before Soumya Sarkar and Mominul Haque put together a meritorious 60-run stand. Ashwin and Jadeja then removed both batsmen in two overs to mount back pressure. 
 
 Twice in successive Test matches before this have Bangladesh imploded in the second innings after holding their own in a neck-and-neck first innings battle - their batsmen playing a significant role in their own downfall. Against India on Day 4 in Hyderabad, briefly though, they seemed to be following the pattern when they lost two wickets for four runs in the second innings. But first innings saviour Shakib Al Hasan, along with Mahmudullah, prevented what could have been another little batting collapse.
 
