NEW DELHI: The government is pushing for strategic stake sales in at least five companies this   and has fast-tracked the process of valuation and final approvals as it looks to raise a record amount from the disposal of assets.
 
  Also, in order to attract serious bidders, land for future project expansion will be part of the package on offer in some cases. Advisors have been appointed for  ,   and  . The other companies lined up for strategic disinvestment include Central Electronics Ltd, Bharat Pumps & Compressors Ltd and Bridge & Roof Co. Separately, the government has started the process of selling a strategic stake in Air India Ltd. These cases will be presented to a ministerial panel for approval.
  
  “Once cleared, we will invite bids for these firms,” said a senior government official, who did not wish to be identified.
  
  The panel consists of finance minister Arun Jaitley and minister for road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari besides the minister of the administrative ministry concerned.
  
  Most of the advisory mandates are with SBI Capital Markets, the investment banking arm of the country’s largest bank, Yes Bank and Resurgent India. The government is focusing on the issue of land with these companies, a matter that has often tripped up divestment efforts. Land available with companies will be part of the package but can be used only for project expansion.
  
  “We are following a very transparent process. All this information will be disclosed in the preliminary information memorandum (PIM), which will be prepared in consultation with the firms concerned,” said a senior government official.
  
  
  
  
  The PIM will be made available to bidders. Of the Rs 72,500 crore targeted from disinvestment this financial year, of which Rs 15,000 crore is to be through strategic sales, the government has raised about Rs 19,157 crore so far. According to the Department of Investment and Public Asset Management (DIPAM) website, strategic sales to the tune of about Rs 4,000 crore have taken place this year as part of “disinvestment of strategic holdings and income from management of   (Specified Undertaking of the Unit Trust Of India) investment.”
  
  The government is cautious about land available with these firms, a senior executive with one of the advisors said. “In some cases, you will have to provide some extra land if these companies are to be run. This is not a sale to asset strip these firms,” he said. The government prepared guidelines last year on the closure of sick and loss-making state-run enterprises and the disposal of their assets, including land. Where land has been leased from the state government, it will be returned after accounting for financial compensation, if any.
