NEW DELHI:  , the country’s largest   by market share, has announced plans to induct 50 smaller aircraft for regional  , giving a major boost to the government’s ‘UDAN’ initiative to boost regional connectivity.
 
  IndiGo on Tuesday said it would add about 50 turboprop aircraft for regional operations that would be run by a separate division. Both travellers and operators have responded well to  , or Ude Desh ka Aam Nagrik, regional connectivity scheme under which Alliance Air, a subsidiary of national carrier Air India, has connected Delhi and Shimla, and Hyderabadbased   has connected Hyderabad to Cuddapa and Nanded.
  
  TruJet has already announced plans to add more routes after initial success, while Alliance Air’s flights to Shimla from Delhi are sold out for the next two months. IndiGo is expected to start turboprop aircraft operation this year and is likely to induct 20 planes by the end of the calendar.
 
  “In support of our Honourable Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s UDAN vision, we are embarking on a journey to build a nationwide regional network and connect cities that have not benefitted from the growth in Indian aviation,” IndiGo president Aditya Ghosh said in a statement. A pet project of Modi, UDAN scheme seeks to connect regional towns with a fare cap of Rs. 2,500 per person per hour.
  
  The government provides a subsidy to compensate for any operational loss due to fare cap. Under the scheme, Alliance Air is offering a subsidised fare of Rs. 2,036 per ticket and is getting a government subsidy of Rs. 3,500 per seat. Alliance Air flies a 50-seater ATR aircraft on the route, but due to payload limitations, it “can offer only 35 seats between Delhi and Shimla, and between 12 and 19 seats in return,” a senior Air India official said.
  
  “There is a lot of demand for seats, which we are not able to fulfil,” said the person who requested not to be identified.
  
  Another senior official said that there is a technical solution to increase the number of seats available and the airline are working on it to make more number of seats available.
  
  TruJet flights, too, have good demand, with about 80 per cent of seats occupied.
  
  Vankayalapati Umesh, managing director at Turbo Megha Airways that operates TruJet, said about 50 to 55 out of 70 seats in its flights on both the sectors are full. “We see a lot of demand and future bookings also look healthy,” he told ET. Umesh said Trujet will launch other regional flights next month as it is adding new aircraft by the end of this month.
  
  The airline currently operates a fleet of five 70-seater ATR aircraft. Out of these, 36 seats per flight are sold under the UDAN scheme. It sells these seats at Rs. 1,700 each, and seeks government subsidy of Rs. 2,500 per seat. Analysts feel it is too early to comment on the success of UDAN scheme.
  
  “Many of the routes that Alliance and TruJet have won appear to be high potential,” said Amber Dubey, India head of aerospace and defence at global consultancy KPMG. He pointed out that it’s the summer holiday season, when families generally travel and a lot of people in Delhi and surroundings rush to hill stations such as Shimla for a brief respite from the scorching sun.
  
  “A clear assessment of route profitability can be done in January 2018 once the peak winter season comes to an end,” Dubey said. “It would be important to see the occupancy and yield on non-RCS (regional connectivity scheme) seats on these flights. That will be an indicator of how sustainable the flights are once the VGF (viability gap funding) is withdrawn after three years.”
  
  Travel industry insiders expect the scheme to give at least 3-4 per cent push to aviation growth in the country. “With domestic aviation growing at around 20 per cent y-o-y, we expect that UDAN rollout across the country, and entry of new players (Qatar at national level and regional carriers at state level) will help aviation grow faster in the country,” said Aloke Bajpai, CEO at travel search engine ixigo.com. “We expect to see UDAN contribute an incremental 3-4 per cent to the domestic air passengers this year,” he said.
