Voting is the new in-thing. And in the spirit of a city which swears by everything that's cool, the voters of Mumbai turned up in large numbers to make their voices heard on Tuesday .They stood in long queues in the oppressive heat, a practice, the jokes said, they'd got used to after demonetization, and displayed the stain on their fingers with a genuine sense of achievement. Those who didn't find their names on the electoral rolls engaged in loud spats with polling officers that they'd never have indulged in earlier “in order to maintain their dignity. “ The new dignity is in the inked finger, the `infra dig' Brihanmumbai Mahanagar Palika which they sometimes referred to as the God-forsaken Bee-Em-Cee is a thing of the past.

 Those with so much moolah and clout that they'd never have to approach a corporator to get things done, and those who could “fix“ anything by simply calling just about anybody who was important in not just the BMC but the larger scheme of things, stood shoulder-to-shoulder on Tuesday with the perennially conscientious voter who makes it a point to press the EVM button no matter what's at stake ­ assembly, Parliament or the neighbourhood “club.“ And those who left town on V-Day for a vacation abroad were “publicly shamed,“ perhaps for the first time, for their dormant civic conscience which stirs in occasional spurts (often assisted by blithe `spirits') on social media.
 
 Gone are the days when only the Communist and   heartlands of Girgaum-Dadar-Lalbaug-Parel, apart from the slums which voted for India's GOP, saw a voter upsurge. Some of it has to do with social media and the pressure of walking your own quasi-activist Facebook and Twitter talk, some with travel and exposure to infrastructure in the world's top cities, some with the 2011-12 anti-corruption movement and the 2014 Modi phenomenon which pulled lakhs of young voters back into the political vortex, and some with the small-town Dhonis and 'Indian Idol' champs who have made elitism passe in the past 15 years. But much of it also has had to do with the fact that Mumbai's roads, the Aarey Colony, the Metro, open spaces and even its dumping grounds have become serious `talking points' in the past five years.
 
 Natasha Shah, a Worli resident and entrepreneur in her 30s, had never voted in a BMC election earlier despite having been a proud Mumbaikar always. But when she heard the Metro becoming a topic of discussion among her friends and saw, on her morning walks, sweepers without basic protective gloves-and-gear, she wondered where India's richest civic body's Rs 37,000-crore annual budget was disappearing if civic staff were so badly off. She didn't know a single candidate in her ward, but she found out their names on the Internet, Googled them for research on their educational background and political careers, and queued up at a polling booth. “Mumbai is my home, and I must know who's running my home. If you don't vote, you have no say in the matter,“ she said.
 
 Diya Sharma, a young resident of the western suburbs, put off her scheduled official visit to Bangalore on Tuesday morning to be able to exercise her franchise. At her booth, she said, she saw people in jogging suits and tracks who, like her, wanted to start their day having done their bit for the city. “Not voting is not an option,“ she said. Mumbai's issues, she pointed out, were on top of her mind, and she was vocal that she was “voting for change.“
 
 So those from other parts of India may snigger at our pride over the 55% turnout, but for us it's a giant step forward from 44% the last time round. Cuffe Parade, which registered 34% turnout in 2012, went up to 50%. 'A' ward, which comprises areas such as Colaba, Cuffe Parade, Fort, and Churchgate, saw a 15% jump overall, and in H-West (Bandra-W, Khar-W, and Santacruz-W), which is known more for hip hangouts than humble polling stations, all the swanky cars were, for a change, parked outside booths. That we polled over a healthy 60% in over 30 wards across the city is itself no mean feat. We're not a Kerala or a Kolkata or any place in the North-East to notch 80% and above, and we'll never get there for sure, but for now, the BMC headquarters has gone from being “that building opposite the magnificent heritage structure that is VT“ to “the hub of local democracy.“ Dear Rest of India, contain your chuckle. That is snobbery which we just killed. Allow us our little celebration.
 
