PUNE: Urban planners and   experts agree that flaws in   encourage drivers to break the law for the sake of convenience. 

 Better road design could help discourage driving on the wrong side of the road, they added.
 
 Covering a longer distance than usual for the nearest legitimate U-turn, thoughtlessly placed breaks in road medians and poor utilisation of the carriageway as well as adjacent spaces are typical reasons why motorists look for shortcuts like driving in the wrong direction, experts say. 
 
 One-ways are typically prone to the notorious tendency, as is glaringly visible on  .
 
 A well-designed road will prompt citizens to use it in an efficient manner, explained Pranjali Deshpande Agashe, programme manager (Maharashtra) of the Institute for Transportation and Development Policy. She has been working with the   to redesign several roads across the city.
 
  "Extra space by the roadside will usually encourage its misuse, including by drivers who would try to use it to sneak over to the wrong side. One-ways don't usually succeed because of this reason," she said.
 
 Citing the example of the congested Laxmi Road area, Agashe explained, "On that road, there is no scope for anyone to drive in the opposite direction. People are forced to drive extra on one-ways and that is why they look for shortcuts like driving on the wrong side."
 
 All extra gaps on the road should be closed, director (operations) at SaveLIFE Foundation Saji Cherian asserted. 
 
 "Eliminate every possibility that drivers can exploit to go on the wrong side. All unnecessary gaps in the road should be permanently closed," he said.
 
 Civic authorities should ensure that breaks in medians are created in a scientific manner, suggested KK Kapila, chairman of the International Road Federation. 
 
 "Driving on the wrong side of the road is dangerous. Drivers must be provided with safe and convenient passage and legitimate U-turns. Breaks in road medians should be closer together in urban areas as compared to rural areas," he shared.
 
