Between 20 and 30 children go missing from Kerala every year, and are never found. On International Missing Children’s Day, today, we give you a lowdown on what to do if a child goes missing, and more For Mini Rajan from Alappuzha, the traumatic experience of losing her seven-year-old son, Rahul, still remains as vivid in her mind as on that fateful day, May 18, 2005. “I still can’t comprehend how he just vanished out of sight,” she rues. “It was his vacation time and just another day for us. After returning from his tuition classes, he ate his lunch in a hurry. His favourite food was rice mixed with ghee, but that day, he didn’t even bother to see what was served on his plate. He went out to play cricket with his friends. He was last seen at around 3.45 pm.” She adds, “His friends told us that he had taken a break from the game and gone to get a drink of water. He never came back.” There were recurrent investigations from the part of the police, and several suspects were questioned, all of which proved false, after which the couple handed over the case to the CBI. However, there was no trace of Rahul or even his remains to prove that he was not alive. A recently telecast TV show featured a boy who looked similar to Rahul, and Mini got her hopes up, but to her dismay, she found that it was not her son. 12 years on, Mini still hopes that one day, her son, whom they all adored, would return and hold her in his arms. While Mini’s story is just one among many, statistics reveal that more often than not, it is the children themselves who elope from home, mostly for minor or silly reasons. On International Missing Children’s Day today, we give you a lowdown on what to do if a child goes missing, how good the system in Kerala is at tracking a lost child, and more. Immediate reporting is the key to reuniting lost children with their family, says Job Zachariah, UNICEF Field Chief, Kerala. “The first few hours after they go missing, the ‘golden hours’ are the key to ensure that they don’t fall prey to sexual crimes or violence. Even a slight delay might cost a child its life,” he says.  “As soon as a child goes missing, a case has to be registered with the Police, following which the Special Juvenile Police unit (SJP), Child Welfare Commission and Childline organisations will pool in their support to trace the child,” says Baby K G, Senior Civil Police Officer, SJP Unit, Ernakulam Rural. Any delay in reporting, and the child may either move or be moved to other places, via train or other means of transport, he points out. Fr Joy James, Chairman of Child Welfare Committee and Childline Convener, who has been actively working on child issues, says that academic failure and love affairs are the major reasons why a lot of children run away from home. And it’s the culture of abuse in our society which instills fear of parents in them, he adds. “Parents do not know to deal with anger and frustration within themselves, and vent it on their kids. The kids, in turn, grow up in a pampered atmosphere and are not taught how to face stress or adverse situations,” he says.  In order to deal with the situation, kids need to be given proper life skill orientation by parents, says Fr Joy. “They should teach the children how to deal with their emotions and frustrations. This training cannot be given from elsewhere.” In addition, the mental state of a child will depend on the peaceful atmosphere of a family, he adds. “If there is unrest in the family, it will affect the kid.” He also points towards the need for nodal teachers in schools, who will take care of the children’s emotional, physical and psychological health. “The teachers should be given training on where to draw the line between peedanam and shikshanam. While peedanam means abuse, shikshanam means growth. Unfortunately, most homes in Kerala are not conducive for the integral growth of children.” An analysis of the lost and found cases in the State reveals that we have reasons to cheer. The number of reported cases comes to around 1,500 a year, but nearly 1,400 of them are found, here, later. “The figures are heartening, as in other States, the numbers are between 14,000 and 20,000 a year.” Instances of finding lost children are also less in other States, he says, adding that the number of unsuccessful cases has also substantially shown a decline over the years. Though the online tracking portal is a good initiative, a few changes need to be made in it, as only the Police are informed about the child’s whereabouts under it, feels Meena Kuruvilla, project director of the outreach programme, Rajagiri College of Social Sciences. “More child related institutions should be kept in the loop – like the CWC, adoption agencies, Child Rights Commission, Child Protection Unit (CPU) and other child care institutions. Suppose a child seeks help in any of these institutions, we can easily identify When they spot a lost child, they will be able to provide all the details they have gathered about the kid in it, and speedy recovery can be done.” 1, Go to the official website of Kerala Police, and among the predominant icons, you will find Track Child, which takes you to an ambit of options to register that a child has gone missing.  2, The Citizen’s Corner titled Khoya – Paya is where the information on missing and found children is fed into, and the police database can be found by just typing the child’s name in it.   3, Guidelines on how to deal with such an issue and file an FIR is also jotted down there, and an online filing of the same could also be done using the provision.  1, Parents should either report to the nearest police station or dial  100 at the earliest. 2, Immediately, a wireless message is passed on to all control rooms. 3, Police officers from the lowest ranks to the highest are kept in the loop through the messages. 4, If the child uses a phone, it is tracked by the telecommunications department, and the Cyber Cell is also informed about the same. 5, Hence, the more the delay from the parents, the less are the chances of tracing the child  1, If a child finds him/herself lost, they should dial the helpline toll free number 1098. It will take the child to the Childline India Foundation in Chennai. 2, Special Juvenile Police officials will arrive at the spot, and along with the Childline personnel, will check if the child has been subjected to mental or physical abuse. 3, They will give the child the needed mental support. Primary investigation is then done by the Police. Information provided by Kerala CM in the assembly on 21 Oct 2016.