NAGPUR: A gang war broke out in front of Super Wine Shop at   a couple of days back, leaving some persons injured. However, this is nothing new for the residential locality, because authorities have ignored many earlier complaints of such clashes, or the nuisance of drunkards standing in front of the shop. Harried residents feel the authorities will act only after a big crime, like a murder.

 TOI had reported in detail the grievances of the residents on May 30. At that time, mayor  , who is among the four corporators of the area, and   police station had assured to take some action. However, the situation has only worsened while Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), Rana Pratap Nagar police, collector Sachin Kurve, and state excise department fail to act against the bar owners. 
 
 The residents have also complained to CM Devendra Fadnavis, since the area is in his Southwest constituency, but he too has failed to respond. Dilip Diwe, Pramod Tabhane and Sonali Kadu, the other corporators from the area, too have been unable to help them. The residents are now even refusing to openly complain since they have allegedly received threats from anti-social elements.
 
 Collector Sachin Kurve and deputy divisional commissioner of excise department Swati Kakde refused to take TOI’s calls for comments.
 
 A video of the gang war, which is being circulated on social networking sites, clearly shows members of two groups clashing and running amok on the road. A couple of the gang members were badly thrashed and injured by rival gangs with sticks and stones, but all of them fled before the cops arrived.
 
 Police CP K Venkatesh told TOI the problem has increased in the area after the Supreme Court’s ban on liquor vends on the highways. “There is a lot of rush in the area and the shopkeepers are unable to control the mob. We’ve deployed personnel to check such activities. We’ve also told the shop owner to deploy security guards to regulate flow of customers.”
 
 He added that cops had enquired about the possibility of closing the shop with the excise department, but came to know that it had all the permits. When told of teenagers and even minors thronging the shop, he said cops are taking action against those without permits to drink.
 
 Jichkar expressed surprise over the development, stating that she wasn’t aware of any clash. She claimed to have visited the place recently and instructed officials to remove encroachments of small vendors, who sell boiled eggs, popcorn, papad, and fish fry, from the area. “The owner shut the shop for a day after the residents’ protests. I had even spoken to the collector in this regard. To close the shop, an election has to be held among the residents. If we lose, the shop would permanently stay there,” she told TOI.
 
 She had instructed the shop owner not to sell country liquor to reduce such incidents. “Even locals had reported to me that daily rush of drunkards had come down after that,” she said.
 
 TOI had reported how the area becomes an open bar in the evening, with serpentine queues for purchasing liquor. Women and girls find it extremely difficult to move around in the evening as drunkards indulge in eve teasing and passing lewd comments. The area is abuzz with customers, ranging from poor rickshaw pullers and labourers to those coming in high-end luxury vehicles.
 
 
