A grey area. Shades of grey. Going grey. Grey market. When it comes to cultural references, grey is anything but great. Always a little negative, a tad underwhelming – not as dark as black, nor as stark as white, it’s a shade in limbo. Come 2015, and the term “groutfit” came in our lives. Portmanteau of ‘grey’ and ‘outfit’, this term celebrates grey-on-grey action via clothes. 

 Designer Anavila Misra, who admits to being partial towards grey, says, “It is a monochromatic colour which has the ability to stand on its own or blend with any other colour. It can be formal but never intimidating.” Fashionwise, grey is not just grey but is charcoal, cement and steel – a reason why designers like Misra,  ,  , Amit Aggarwal, Phalguni & Shane Peacock have used it to spin superlative style. 
 
 
 
 Malhotra calls it the perfect in-between colour. “It strikes a perfect balance between authoritative black and pristine white – allowing room for experimentation,” he says. In fact, in his latest collection, Malhotra has used grey in fun silhouettes like corset blouses, layered lehenga, or a metallic skirt with feather detailing. 
 
 For Rathore, the best bit is that it does double duty for both summer and winter. “With a surge in menswear international brands making inroads in the Asian market, the acceptance of this colour has come in the “once ethnic” markets too,” he says. Since black is not auspicious for festivities, grey is the new pick. 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 Vipul Amar, founder of a bespoke design company, feels that grey resonates with strength and solidity – a reason why it was a staple for military uniforms. Though now, Amar contends, it has moved away from its staid image and gone beyond office wear to casual and even party wear. His picks: For men, casual v-neck grey linen tunics with casually fitted trousers worn with a grey flat head/newsboy cap; for women, a floaty dress worn with bright accessories.
 To make sure the head-to-toe monochrome looks stylish and not sterile, Malhotra says that the key is the right mix – that is pairing the lighter and darker shades together. His pick: dramatic accessories. “Grey can be paired with many colours – yellow, purple and gold, etc. Or pick textures like faux furs, feathers, sequins, fringes that when teamed with grey create an elegant outfit for any occasion,” he adds.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
