PANCHKULA/BALKANA: Residents of Sector 19 and   struggled as water seeped into houses and residential areas. Residents said district officials are aware of the situation and have frequently complained to MC officials but to no avail.

 Suresh Kumar, a resident of Sector 19, said, “We have to face harassment every time it rains. We stand outside our houses and use motors to stop water from seeping into our houses. We also throw water out with buckets and mugs.”
 
 Senior officials of Haryana Urban Development Authority (HUDA) said infrastructure situation in Panchkula is not all that bad as they have storm water drainage system fitted in the city. In Sector 19, they said, a 100-feet wide pipe has been fitted to help drain rainwater. The problem arises in Baltana as a narrow pipe of less than 10-feet stops flow of water and throws it back towards Sector 19.
 
 MC mayor Upinder Kaur Ahluwalia said, “We clear drains before the monsoon but the problem is that the drainage narrows down when it opens towards Baltana. When the flow of water is high, this leads to waterlogging.”
 
 For now, workers have cleaned drainage pipes and eased the water flow but this is a temporary solution, said Vinayak Jain, a resident of Sector 19. Local councillor of Panchkula Sector 19 Ravi Kant Swami said he has raised the issue of waterlogging with the Zirakpur council and with the   administration several times. Swami, said, “Two weeks ago, I raised the issue with the Mohali DC who ordered a survey here to make necessary arrangements. A total of four surveys have been conducted till now but there’s no solution at ground level. We need solutions not surveys.”
 
 Water flows through Baltana to the adjoining  , which meets at the Ghaggar river further on. But it is stopped by the narrow pipeline. Harminder Singh, a resident of Baltana, said, “It is a major problem, especially during the monsoon. Houses get flooded and it becomes difficult for residents. It also creates unhygienic conditions in houses and shops, leading to mosquito breeding.”
 
