Nagpur: The discovery of ‘Descemet’s layer’ in the cornea of human eye by Dr Harminder S Dua, chair and professor of Ophthalmology, University of Nottingham, Queens Medical Centre, Nottingham, UK, has changed the understanding of cornea and corneal transplants. This layer is now named after him and is called as the Dua’s layer. An alumnus of GMCH and a Nagpurian, Dr Dua was in the city for the golden jubilee conference of the Academy of Medical Sciences. He says that in traditional corneal transplant, a disc of the whole thickness of the cornea is cut and replaced with a similar disc taken from a donated eye. This is called full thickness corneal transplant or Penetrating Keratoplasty (PK).  Modern transplant, however, is predominantly ‘Lamellar surgery’ which means that if the inside lining (Descemets membrane and endothelium — a single layer of cells that keeps the cornea relatively dehydrated and transparent. The endothelium rests on the Descemets membrane) is diseased or defective, one replaces only the inside layer (Endothelial keratoplasty) leaving the front layer(s) in place. Equally, if the front layers are scarred as after infection or ulcer or if the front layers are distorted as in a condition called Keratoconus, only the front layer(s) are replaced while retaining the Descemets membrane and Endothelium. This is called Deep Anterior Lamellar Keratoplasty (DALK). In DALK, graft failure due to rejection is avoided as it retains the patient’s own endothelium. “In order to separate Descemets and Endothelium (DM) from the front layers (stroma) one injects air in the stroma to strip off the back lining i.e. DM. All surgeons believed that they were separating the DM from the stroma in DALK surgery. I noticed certain clues that suggested that the air dissection was not in the plane of the DM. I, therefore, postulated that the plane of cleavage in DALK was not at the DM-Stroma interface but rather in front of this,” said Dr Dua. Dr Dua and his team simulated the DALK surgery in donor eyes and were able to demonstrate a new layer in front of the DM, which offered the plane of cleavage in most cases (over 80%). “The knowledge of the layer has enhanced our understanding of corneal transplant surgery and of several diseases affecting the cornea “It has made corneal transplant surgery safer and has improved the outcome. As the layer is quite tough, its retention leaves behind a more secure eye compared to an eye without the layer and an eye that has undergone PK,” he said.