PUNE: The ongoing road expansion work in   IT park and industrial area aimed at easing   congestion can expect a push in the coming days. 

 Pune guardian minister Girish   has decided to look into the problems faced by thousands of employees who travel to the IT park every day. Techies say the daily jams and delays in reaching the office are vexing them. They blame the poor road infrastructure. 
 
 Over 2 lakh employees travel to Hinjewadi daily from Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad. These employees have for long demanded effective solutions, complaining that existing roads are proving insufficient in dealing with the increasing number of vehicles. While they admit road expansion work has started in many places, they point out that the progress remains slow.
 
 Bapat recently conducted a meeting with the district authorities, MIDC and officials from PMC and PCMC, to discuss issues pertaining to traffic   in Hinjewadi. “Road-related works — laying of new roads and construction of bridges — have been delayed because of the non-availability of land and delays in land acquisition,” officials had pointed out in the meeting. 
 
 Bapat, after listening to the arguments, asked the officials to work out short-term and long-term solutions to streamline traffic movement in the area. He also asked them to prepare plans to deal with encroachment along the existing roads, chowks and commercial establishments. 
 
 Sources in MIDC on Thursday told TOI that Bapat plans to visit the bottleneck spots in Hinjewadi on Friday. “The minister will likely hold discussions with local residents to hear their demands, and to resolve land acquisition issues which are pending for many days,” a source said.
 
 Bapat also asked officials to work on issues relating to daily garbage management and safety measures in the area.
 
 Consultant to be roped in
 
 Meanwhile, MIDC sources said that they were exploring the option of appointing an expert consultant in the matter. “The consultant could formulate a comprehensive plan. The proposal was discussed during the meeting with Bapat. The plan is still in the discussion stage. We are yet to reach any conclusion,” an official said. 
 
 
