CUTTACK: With an aim to improve sanitation in the city, the   (CMC) had imposed a complete ban on sale and use of polythene carry bags in 2011. But nothing has changed on the ground in these six years.

 Shopkeepers and roadside vendors are still using polythene bags, violating the ban order. It also indicates that the CMC has failed to implement the ban effectively in the city.
 
 After the imposition of the ban, the civic body had carried out awareness drives and raids and had confiscated large quantities of banned plastic carry bags. But within a year the drive lost its fizz and the banned plastic bags are now back in the market and being openly sold, procured and used. 
 
 Besides affecting the environment, the non-biodegradable polythene carry bags are a major reason for water-logging problem in Cuttack. CMC sources said on any single day the city generates over 280 metric tonnes of garbage and 55 per cent of it consists of plastic and polybags. 
 
 "Huge quantities of polythene bags are dumped in open drains by residents thereby clogging it, leading to water-logging problem during monsoon," the source said.
 
 "Every year, the CMC spends crores in cleaning and de-silting the choked drains to resolve the water-logging problem. But we cannot deal with it completely unless the ban on polythene carry bags is strictly enforced in the city," a senior CMC official said.
 
 The citizens too blamed the CMC for its failure to implement the ban. "Initially raids were conducted and awareness was created on the issue, but now it seems the CMC has forgotten about the ban. The civic body never took strict action against the manufacturers and wholesalers of polythene bags which encouraged them to continue with their business," said  , a lawyer.
 
 "Following the awareness programmes, some malls and shop-owners had started using jute and other eco-friendly bags. But with the CMC having gone into slumber, everyone - roadside vendors to malls owners - is openly using polythene carry bags," said  , a teacher.
 
 CMC authorities, though, claimed that measures are being taken to implement the ban in letter and spirit. "We do not want to impose the ban forcibly on the citizens by threatening them with fines or punishment. People should cooperate with us to make the polythene ban initiative a success. We will soon convene a meeting to discuss measures to make the ban more effective," mayor   said. 
 
