KOLKATA:   is considering whether to use the  , developed by Defence Research & Development Organisation’s Gas Turbine Research Establishment in Bengaluru (its marine derivative) or a gas turbine being developed by Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited for a Liquefied Natural Gas ( ) locomotive that it plans to develop soon. The locomotive will help the railways to reduce the carbon footprints.

 The Kaveri engine was developed by the research establishment for India’s Light Combat Aircraft Tejas, while   is developing its gas turbine for the Navy. LNG locomotives are already being used in countries like the US, Australia and Russia.
 
 “Indian Railways has set up an advisory committee to study the prospect of developing a gas-turbine locomotive that will run on LNG. The idea is to reduce carbon footprints and dependency on conventional sources of energy and develop a locomotive that could cover long distances without refuelling. Some zonal railways, including Eastern and South Eastern Railway, have experimented with a mix of diesel and bio-diesel in locomotives. The results have been positive but we have not been able to increase the proportion of bio-diesel after some time,” a senior railway official in Kolkata said.
 
 The first meeting of a sub-committee dealing with the project was held at Indian Railways’ Research Designs & Standards Organisation on February 23 this year. While the railways has only sanctioned Rs 19.3 crore for this project, experts feel the cost of developing an LNG locomotive would be around Rs 70-80 crore. It is to be ascertained whether the running cost of such a locomotive can match power costs incurred by electric locomotives. The railways purchases power between Rs 4 and Rs 7 per unit.
 
 “According to Russian Railways, it will cost Rs 40-45 crore to develop a gas-turbine locomotive. The committee discussed the advantages and disadvantages of using the Kaveri engine. While this is a ready-made technology, costs are a factor. The engine is made of titanium, nickel and cobalt-based alloys. It would take some time to modify the engine to suit the railways,” an official in the Railway Board said. 
 
 The idea is to develop a gas-turbine engine of 8 mega watt. It was discussed that the power requirement of such an engine would be huge during high speeds. The idea should be to use the gas-turbine for long distance travel at lower speeds and integrate a diesel engine into the system for use during high-speed runs. 
 
 “The committee decided to prepare a detailed project report and get in touch with Russian Railways for latest updates on the development of a gas-turbine locomotive,” the Railway Board official added. 
 
 
