PATNA: Confusion prevails over the arrival of jathedars of Akal Takhat, Kesgarh Sahib and Damdama Sahib at Patna for participating in Prakashotsava celebrations as  , chairman of Takhat Patna Saheb, denied giving them any written invitation for the event.

 Taking to TOI at   on Monday, Makkar said: “Akal Takhat jathedar Gurbachan Singh has asked for a written invitation from the committee. We have told them that we are not sending written invitation to anyone for participating in Prakashotsava. Hence, it is not required in their case as well. Nobody has stopped them from coming to Patna.”
 
 The three jathedras – high priests of temporal seats of Sikh religion – claimed last week that they have received letter from the committee asking them to stay away from Prakashotsava as they had been facing opposition from select corners of the community after they pardoned Sirsa-based Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh last year. Apparently, many Sikhs are upset with the three jathedars for pardoning Dera chief last year for allegedly dressing up as Guru Gobind Singh in 2007.
 
 “We have been informed that the jathedars are coming to Patna despite the last letter from the committee. We don’t have any issue with regard to their arrival, but they would not be allowed to give religious messages at the main Durbar Hall at Gandhi Maidan, where the main Prakashotsava programme is scheduled to be held on January 5 in the presence of PM  ,” Makkar, who is also former chief of   (SGPC), said.
 
 Meanwhile, tight security was in place at Patna City, especially in the vicinity of Takhat Sri Harmandir Saheb on Monday. Over 2,000 personnel of Bihar Police, Bihar Military Police (BMP), Rapid Action Force (RAF) and task force are managing crowd on Gurdwara Road and other link roads to it. Additional security forces are expected to be deployed from Tuesday considering the arrival of dignitaries, including Punjab CM Parkash Singh Badal, his predecessor Captain   and home minister Rajnath Singh among others.
 
 Makkar claimed that more than three lakh devotees have already arrived at Takhat Sri Harmandir Saheb. The religious ceremonies for Prakashotsava commenced from wee hours of January 1, followed by commencement of Akhand Path at Chhoti Gurdwara on Monday morning.
 
 Meanwhile, the road in front of Takhat Sri Harmandir Saheb was chock-a- block with sea of devotees standing in long queues. Sikhs as well as non-Sikh devotees stood for hours to enter the Gurdwara, while Shabad Kirtan kept blaring from the loudspeakers. Non-stop ‘shabad kirtan’ by ‘ragi jattha’ from across the country have commenced at Takhat Sri Harmandir Saheb Gurdwara from early morning hours on January 1.
 
 Makkar said the horse race and other games, initially scheduled to be held at Gandhi Maidan on Tuesday, have been postponed to January 6. The next big event in the ongoing Prakashotsava celebrations is ‘nagar kirtan’ from Gandhi Maidan tent city to Takhat Sri Harmandir Saheb on January 4. The ‘kiratn’ is likely to be participated by thousands of devotees. 
 
