KOLKATA: Drenched in a steady shower, stuck in hour-long traffic and unsure of whether the play would at all resume on time, thousands of   fans donning purple and gold jerseys and carrying yellow-and-white KKR flags thronged the M   on Wednesday cheering for every dot ball KKR bowlers bowled and every wicket taken.

 At the metro with the second biggest Bengali population after Kolkata, KKR found home support in the very first knock-out game of the tournament and when KKR drew the first blood in the fourth over of the game, the 20,000-odd crowd at the stadium made it clear which team they were supporting.
 
 Software engineer Atanu   (45) had taken a day off from office on Wednesday just to ensure he was not late for the game. But the steady rain three hours before the match held up traffic and Sinha reached the stadium two overs past the   batting.
 
 “We were caught in traffic and then there was a huge queue outside the stadium that got us late. But I had managed to buy some KKR goodies — jerseys, flags and headbands for my sons just before entering,” said Sinha, who lives barely 9km from the stadium but said it took him more than two hours to cover the distance on Wednesday.
 
 Kaustav Kashyap  , a 21-year-old young cricketer from a local club in south Bangalore, got completely drenched while heading for the stadium on his motorbike. “It was raining so hard that unless I had brought my bike, I would have never reached on time.”
 
 Kashyap and others said the rain and the traffic held some of the fans back home, while some were found entering the stadium even an hour into the match. With the KKR Boss Shah Rukh Khan coming in, the crowd got noisier. “When the game started, the stadium was half empty. But in the next one hour, it slowly got filled up. The rain played spoilsport initially, but thankfully it had stopped just before the match,” said Mallick.
 
 Immediately after the first half ended with Sunrisers Hyderabad bundled up for a mere 128 off seven wickets, rain came pelting down. But the crowd held on to their seats. For KKR fans back home, rain was the common factor that delayed fans trying to get home from work to catch the live action.
 
 “The rain followed by the traffic jam held me back on the road for the first hour of the match. But I caught up with most of it on my cellphone ,” said   resident Souick Basu.
 
