Juhu,   Tomorrow, you have to wake up bright and early for an  .  , as promised, is back. 

 The movement, supported by TOI, returns this Sunday to make cars vanish for three hours. By closing off a 2.1km stretch from   Circle to Mithibai College to vehicles from 6am to 9am, the movement will help you stretch, run, cycle, play and, above all, reclaim that evasive road space. On offer are a bouquet of activities including on-the-spot portraits, mini tennis, zumba and origami. You can even have your face read by a 90-year-old seasoned cartoonist and face reader. 
 
 While having fun, Mumbaikars are now becoming aware of one of the biggest goals of the movement that was born in 2014—helping unclog Mumbai’s car-blocked arteries. Equal Streets was initiated in 2014 as a way to facilitate the importance of sustainable transport in our community. Already, the citizen-led movement, supported by the Times of India, has started showing results. In a survey conducted by the movement, it emerged that Equal Streets has inspired at least 22% of 600 respondents to purchase a cycle and 72 percent to start walking or cycling for short trips. 
 
 Public transport too is a positive force that can significantly transform our cities into environmentally sustainable and economically equitable ones, say urban planners. They point out that by 2050, the global urban population will increase by at least 2.5 billion people. While emissions from industry are decreasing, emissions related to transport are expected to rise more than 50% by 2030. “We hope to raise awareness around public transport use in Mumbai, direct people towards easily accessible information, while also encouraging them to use buses to access Equal Streets,” says Dhawal Ashar, senior associate, EMBARQ India and founding member, Equal Streets. 
 
 The Equal Streets loop is well-accessible by three stations on Western Railway line—Bandra, Khar, and Santacruz. Additionally, on Sunday mornings, a total of 21 bus routes also provide access to the area by connecting to major residential areas such as Colaba, Lower Parel, Dadar, Wadala, Dharavi and Andheri. BEST buses from any of these destinations have an average frequency of every 10 minutes, and can be used for a comfortable and convenient journey. “As Equal Streets grows, more people are realizing this is more than just a fun Sunday event, but rather a sustained movement to make Mumbai healthier, happier and more inclusive,” says Sachi Aggarwal of EMBARQ India. 
 
 Want to do your bit for Mumbai’s lungs? Take the bus to Juhu tomorrow. A   full of fun awaits you.
 
 
