KUTUPALANG, COX'S BAZAR: It was a little past midnight when the phone rang. Swapan Sharma   took the call without appearing either surprised or perturbed. The conversation that followed was short and crisp. After the call, he called a friend and headed for the   camp on a bike. 

 “A new group of   refugees has just arrived at the camp and need help,” he said, before disappearing among the teeming refugees that crowd the camp. 
 
 Uprooted from their land in Myanmar’s Rakhine state at short notice and forced to flee for their lives, they are streaming into camps like this one in southern Bangladesh for shelter.
 
 A member of Haladiapalang Union Parishad, Ronny reappears after several hours, having successfully made space at a makeshift camp in an adjoining area to house 20 new refugees.
 
 “Citizens of Bangladesh may be poor but one thing that we don’t lack is a heart. We can grieve for strangers and go the distance to help them. How can we not respond to the crisis when men, women and children are pushed to the brink? They need food and shelter and we are doing the best we can,” said Ronny, sitting at a tea stall near the camp at Kutupalang Paschim Hindu Para. 
 
 The refugees that have crossed the border in the past two weeks have found shelter in numerous such makeshift camps across the Cox’s Bazar district. Even before aid agencies could reach out to them, locals pooled in money and other resources to feed the hungry. 
 
 Rohingya refugees seeking asylum in Bangladesh is nothing new to the country, which is the poorest of the world’s 10 most populous. Even before the latest round of violence broke out in August, nearly 1 lakh Rohingyas were already in refugee camps in Cox’s Bazar. Though Bangladesh’s economy is on the path of growth, the sheer scale of refugees is posing a challenge. 
 
 “It sure won’t be easy. As a country that still depends on foreign aid, it will be a big challenge to support the big refugee population. But we cannot turn a blind eye. These people have lost everything back home and need our support,” said  , chairman of Naikhongchari Sadar Union Parishad.
 
 There are, however, apprehensions among a section of the locals about the difficulties that the emerging situation may pose. “What are they going to eat? Where will they live? People are beginning to raise these questions. We have to find answers to these but now is not the time,” says Chowdhury. 
 
 Local politicians have played a constructive role, conducting numerous meetings across the district apart from micro-managing relief work. “Separate teams have been set up to speak to people and oversee relief work. We needed to allay fears and concerns to ensure the situation is properly managed,” Chowdhury said. 
 
 Awami League members have also hit the streets, rallying for Rohingyas and urging people to show a human face to the refugees.
 
 “While locals in Cox’s Bazar understand the Rohingya language, the culture is different. Assimilation will not be easy and may give rise to conflict,” said Md Shafiullah, pr-ofessor of political science at Naikhongchari College. “We have grown up in Naikhongchari and have seen Rohingyas up close. They need to get back to the land they were born in. All of us need that.” 
 
 There is palpable pressure on the micro-economy of the district whose revenue driver is primarily tourism, shrimp cultivation and salt production. “The desperate refugees are willing to work at half the rate a local would charge. If this continues, locals will lose jobs. That will lead to flashpoints and trigger clashes between the communities. Giving them refuge is the call of the hour, but this cannot be a permanent solution,” Chowdhury said before he left to oversee relief work in the area.
 
