GURUGRAM: Unable to get any relief from the developer even after 22 government orders in their favour, residents of  , a premium condominium on Golf Course Road, have now approached the chief minister for resolution of their grievances.

 In a letter to  , the La Lagune Apartment Owners’ Association has complained against the developer for failing to resolve the issues in the condominium, including that of decorative glass panes coming loose from their frames on the facades of residential towers and crashing on to the premises.
 
 “We, as an apartment owners’ association have 22 orders from senior-most government officers, including deputy commissioner, district town planner (enforcement) and senior town planner (STP), Gurgaon, in our favour, but the developer provides us with no relief...,” the association’s president   wrote to CM on May 6.
 
 Residents said they have raised the issues a number of times on several fora in the past two-and-a-half years and senior officials have also issued several directions to the developer, but nothing has been done on the ground till date.
 
 In fact, in the last meeting, held under the chairmanship of STP YM Mansuri on March 20, the district town planning department had accepted most of the allegations of residents related to falling of glass panes, selling of a portion of land to other developer, absence of a club house, delay in handing over maintenance to RWA etc.
 
 Kohli said despite the STP’s direction to the developer to hold a meeting with representatives of La Lagune Apartment Owners’ Association to resolve the latter’s grievances, the builder “wrote a letter to the department on March 31, refusing to accept its observation”.
 
 When contacted, a spokesperson for the developer,  , said, “We have replied to all the queries with all relevant documents to government at all levels. As far as falling of glass façade is concerned, it is getting addressed.” On the allegations of non-compliance of orders of government departments, the spokesperson said, “The government should have acted against us if we had done anything wrong.” 
 
 But he added, “We paid for the best glass, but it turned out to be faulty, we are not responsible for it. However, we admit that it is an issue and we are open for discussion. If they (residents) want to leave other issues, then we can discuss on glass.” However, Kohli said, “We are hoping that the CM will do justice to the residents and take action against the developer.”
 
  over 11.34 acres in Sector 54, La Lagune has 314 flats in 11 towers.
 
