After filing nomination from his   in Etawah on Tuesday, senior SP leader Shivpal Yadav is in a pensive mood. Number two in   not very long ago, now he is relegated and even forced out of the party’s star campaigners’ list. After keeping mum since January 16 -- when he and his elder brother, SP patriarch  , lost the battle of symbol at the EC to his nephew, CM Akhilesh Yadav -- Shivpal‘s statement about ‘forming a party after March 11’ has created a flutter on news channels and social media. When TOI managed to reach him late in the evening to know the reason for his outburst in the middle of a crucial election, Shivpal’s bared his soul, saying, “Yeh dharma yuddha hai” (this is a fight for righteousness and justice). Excerpts:

 
 
 
 Have you not read Mahabharata? It’s a war against some of my own who have perpetrated injustice and conspired to eliminate me politically. I am not scared of the result, but have appealed to the people to stand by him at this juncture, otherwise the party will be in the hands of those who have vested interests and those who have captured power in Lucknow. Those shouting slogans against me and Mulayam Singh Yadav have never visited villages, never faced lathis and bullets.
 
 
 
 
 Where was this youth team when me and Mulayam Singh Yadav were frequently jailed? When Mulayam was in jail, I raised the cadre and built the outfit. Does anyone know that in those days we did not have money even to stay in hotels? ‘Humne jhande ka takia laga kar sadak ke kinare soya hai’. What has this youth brigade done?
 
 
 
 I want Akhilesh Yadav to become the chief minister and run the government and I would strengthen the party. But if the way me and my people are being targeted, what option will I have after March 11, except to start a fresh struggle? I want to save those who have stood by me. I want to be with those who are fighters and strugglers.
 
 
 
 
 I don’t know why. Despite my speech at the party’s silver jubilee when I said that I was ready to relinquish everything and was not in the race to become the CM, this perception continued. Despite that I am being targeted for none of my fault. Senior leaders and ministers who were with me in the party have been shown the door.
 
 
 
 
 No. The youth have done well for the party and are still supporting it. But certainly I do question why those who criticised Netaji are getting protection. Why has no one asked for an explanation from them for humiliating Mulayam Singh Yadav publicly? Why were they re-inducted into the party without any apology? Does the person (Mulayam) who struggled for the party and almost sacrificed his life, not deserve respect and dignity at this juncture of his political career? Even political opponents have respected him, but he is being humiliated by a handful of people and astonishingly they are being pampered and protected. My fight is certainly against those.
 
 
 
 
 I would repeat what Mulayam Singh Yadav has said. What will be the fate of the leaders and workers in those 105 constituencies that were given to Congress?
 
 At one point of time during the peak of family feud you had revealed that it was Akhilesh Yadav who had shown intention to form a new party, but now you are going the same way.
 
 I have already clarified that my priority is to strengthen the Samajwadi Party and the hands of Mulayam Singh Yadav. But if the vendetta against me and my men in the party continues, what options will I have? Please wait till March 11.
 
