MUMBAI: The good news first. The city’s overall   did not see any exponential rise in 2014, states data released by the Mumbai   registry on Monday. On the downside, though, cancers of the gastrointestinal system such as liver, gall bladder and pancreas have shown an increase. In women, lung cancer has shown a spurt even though breast cancer continues to affect most.

 Gastrointestinal tract cancers contributed to the highest share (23%) of the 13,564 cases that were detected in 2014. This was followed by head and neck cancers (17%). While lung and oral cancer together topped the list in men, contributing to 20% of all cases, breast cancer alone accounted for 30% of the cases in women. Cervical cancer, a distant second (7%), has continued to show a phenomenal decline without any major public health intervention. 
 
 An analysis of data collated from 137 centres by the registry showed that the lifetime risk of developing cancer among both men and women in the city has remained static at eight per a population of one lakh in 2014, underlining that the condition has not gone berserk as is commonly believed. 
 
 It appears to have marginally changed since 1964. 
 
 The high disease rate among the geriatric population has remained unchanged too. Almost 50% of the freshly detected cases in 2014 were in the age group of 60 and above.
 
 “The majority of cancer cases are in the ageing population. It is important to design interventions and preventive programmes keeping these trends in mind. It should be noted that the age group of 75 and above that accounts for merely 2% of the city’s population contributes to 17% of new cancer cases,” said Dr  , medical director of the registry, run by the Indian Cancer Society. He termed the year-on-year increase in cancer cases as marginal while also attributing the rise to better reporting and awareness.
 
 Gastroenterologist Dr   even said the same factors could be responsible for the increase in cases of gastrointestinal tract cancer. The data shows that liver, gall bladder and pancreatic cancers are on the rise while stomach and oesphageal cancers are reducing. “There are no epidemiological studies to link the increase with food habits or pollution. In the north, the incidence of gall bladder cancer has always been high and certain studies have linked it with the consumption of water from the Ganges. But for Mumbai, we don’t know of any definite reasons. It could simply be better diagnosis and awareness among people,” he said.
 
 Tobacco-related cancers are another area that continue to be a grave cause for worry. Among men, it had contributed to 40% of the overall cases. Of these, at least 10% of the cases were of lung cancer followed by mouth and tongue. In women, too, tobacco caused cancer in 16% of the cases.
 
 The data again highlighted how late detection remains a big problem. “Mortality rates have more or less been consistent. It only indicates late diagnosis when the disease is at an advanced stage,” said Deshmane. Dr Rajendra Badwe, director,  , said in a recent conference that the chances of curing cancer diminish when the detection is at an advanced stage or the disease has recurred. The treatment cost multiplies too.
 
 
 
 Lung cancer among women has been rising steadily in Mumbai with no clear reasons to explain the trend. In 2014, too, lung cancer accounted for 5.3% of all cases, up from 3.6% in 2010. 
 
 Chest physician Dr Zarir Udwadia said, “There is no theoretical evidence to suggest that pollution, inhaling carcinogens or smoking could be causing such a thing. We also don’t know whether smoking habits of partners or spouses is causing cancer in women.” Dr Vinay Deshmane said the increase needs to be studied. “Only a detailed study can tell us if a shift in smoking habits is causing it or there are environmental factors at play,” he said.
 
 
 
