NEW DELHI: There could be some relief for Delhiites from the traffic mess with lieutenant governor   taking personal interest in the situation. On Thursday, he held a meeting with various stakeholders like Delhi Police, DDA, NDMC, municipal corporations, PWD, transport department and UTTIPEC to review the traffic management issues in the city and asked them to ensure that all bottlenecks are removed and that pedestrian safety is ensured.

 The  , who is quite active on social media, tweeted: “Regular meetings on ‘issues’ will be held now. Action Taken Reports to be submitted within a month. Next meeting on ‘Safety of Women’.”
 
 During the meeting, the   presented decongestion plans for Dhaula Kuan, Mathura Road and  . “The vulnerable points identified for engineering improvement work were taken up. The reasons for congestion at each point, the action taken and the proposed action plans were presented at the meeting,” said a source.
 
 Baijal, who earlier this month took stock of the state of sanitation in some areas in south Delhi, was reportedly seriously concerned over reports of traffic congestion across the city, unauthorised parking and encroachment under flyovers, pedestrian safety issues and violation of traffic rules. “He directed the agencies to work in tandem to resolve traffic management issues and to make Delhi roads safe for all. He has further issued directions to set up a task force with stake holders for uniformity in decision making and focused efforts on ground,” the source added.
 
 Other orders issued include identification of critical bottlenecks and congestion points and measures taken to remove them. Unauthorised parking lots/encroachments under flyovers have to be removed and those areas are to be fenced and beautified. The three municipal corporations, NDMC and the transport department have been asked to prepare a uniform parking policy for Delhi at the earliest. The corporations will have to report any violation to the land owning agency. 
 
 “Action is to be taken to implement intelligent traffic management system in Delhi. Red light violation detection cameras and automatic numberplate reader cameras have to be procured and installed at identified locations at the earliest,” he said. 
 
 
