AURANGABAD: Minister of state for social justice   has stoked controversy by making remark against Brahmins and indirectly terming the community as “coward”. He later retracted his comments and issued a clarification. 

 Addressing a public event at Latur on Sunday, the minister said he would not be scared of slapping those who are sloganeering behind his back as he is Dalit and not a Brahmin. Kamble was referring to protest by certain elements after an inaugural function a day earlier. 
 
 “As the government has ended the role of middlemen and agents, some affected elements are trying to malign the government’s image. Am I a Brahmin to be scared of them. I’m a Dalit. If they had raised slogan in front of me, I would have slapped them,” said the BJP leader from Pune. 
 
 While the unexpected mention of the Brahmin community created ripples among the audience, state labour minister  , who was presiding over the function, tried to salvage the matter on a casual note.
 
 Referring to Kamble’s comments, the BJP leader said he was not expecting the side-effects of Nilanga to affect   so quickly, spreading pills of laughter among audience. He, however, added that one should not mind Kamble’s comment as it came on the occasion of Holi.
 
 Later, Kamble issued a statement retracting his comments regarding Brahmins. “I was trying to invoke Brahmins in the context of their quality of forgiveness. However, wrong words inadvertently were uttered,” he said, adding that he never intended to hurt sentiments of any community. 
 
 Meanwhile, the Brahmin community held protests in Aurangabad and Latur among other places in Marathwada, demanding unconditional apology from Kamble.
 
 Stating that it was unsuitable for minister holding portfolio of social justice to hold grudge and bias against particular community, Marathwada unit of   demanded Kamble’s resignation.
 
 “Kamble has publicly vented out his ill feelings towards the Brahmin community and has no moral right to continue as social justice minister,” said Anil Mule, senior leader of the Mahasangh. 
 
