VARANASI:   national president   reacted sharply to chief minister Akhilesh Yadav's `Acche din in UP' query, and said that `achche din' will come after declaration of Assembly election results on March 11 and formation of BJP government in UP.

 In an interaction with reporters here on Friday , Shah said, “After ruling for five years, UP CM Akhilesh Yadav asks `When will good days come for UP?' The answer to his question is that good days for UP will come on March 11 at 1pm with BJP coming to power.“
 
 Highlighting UP CM's “helplessness“ by asking “tainted minister“ Gayatri Prajapati to surrender, Shah said, “I noticed CM on TV appealing Prajapati to surrender. Those who are in power do not show helplessness in such matters and share responsibility with the police. There is still time before poll results and CM should ensure arrest of Prajapati.If not, BJP after coming into power will ensure immediate arrest of Prajapati.“
 
 Shah said that BJP will win with two-thirds majority .“As per information, BJP is ruling the charts in the last five phases and is heading towards victory in the last two phases. I can see that enthusiasm of people is far more than the BJP workers and the storm which was there in 2014 Lok Sabha elections can be seen during assembly elections,“ he said.
 
 He said frustration of people towards SP-led state government is visible. Later, Shah attacked CM for rising crime and corruption in UP and lack of employment opportunities. He also slammed Mayawati's BSP and said that how can a party with leaders like Afzal Ansari and Mukhtar Ansari promise to ensure a `goonda-mukt' administration.
 
 Shah also expressed disappointment over dismal law and order situation in state.He said that despite release of funds worth Rs. 1.70 lakh fo development in state, no work was visible. “CM should give answers where was the money used,“ said Shah.
 
 “Even villages of highprofile places like Amethi and Rae Bareilly had no power supply . It was only after BJPled government came into power that electrification of such villages was done,“ said Shah.
 
 Shah said that an extensive framework pertaining to development of UP had been prepared. “Infrastructure development of over a thousand crore rupees for east UP and Bundelkhand has been worked out and more schemes are in the offing, including 40 new dairy firms, 80 engineering colleges and over 20 medical colleges.“
 
