Modinagar: This small township located off NH-58 on the periphery of  , close to Meerut, mostly comprises a trading community with the main market area stretching for nearly 8 km on either sides of the national highway. Major landmarks of the town including the railway station, bus stand and the police station are located on this stretch.

 Among local people, unemployment is a major issue particularly after the numerous mills and private industries that used to operate out of the township closed down. In the past, there were industries run by the Modi group which used to produce cloth, oil, tyres and lanterns apart from dozens of other products.
 
 “The local youth are unemployed after the mills closed down. Only a sugar mill runs in the township. But that’s not enough to provide largescale employment. Successive governments have failed to generate employment opportunities in the region,” said Jitender Kumar Chaudhary, a local trader.
 
 The farming community in   is largely dependent on cane production. However, cane farming has also been hit due to lack of timely payment of dues. In the past two decades, several private educational institutes have cropped up in Modinagar making it an education hub. 
 
 A plethora of private higher educational institutes offering engineering, dental and management courses dot the Modinagar township.
 
 “Farmers and those who lost their livelihoods from the mill closures cannot afford to send their children to these private colleges. Not a single government has ever thought about providing adequate educational facilities for the local youth in Modinagar. The mills should be revived to garner more employment opportunities,” said Kanchilal, a local resident.
 
 Demonetization seems to have had an impact on the petty traders who were dealing only in cash till late. Only one of the seven ATMs in the main market had cash when TOI visited the township. 
 
 A section of traders was nonetheless all praise about Prime Minister Narendra Modi.
 
 “Modi has a huge following here. The Samajwadi Party does not have enough confidence to win the polls. That’s why they have teamed up with Congress,” said Shiv Kumar, a local resident.
 
 Voters in the assembly   said issues surrounding cane cultivation have always decided the outcome of elections in Modinagar. The Chaudhary Ajit Singh-led Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) has a strong political base in the region given its politics over the plight of cane farmers.
 
 Out of the eight assembly seats in NCR, Modinagar was the only one in which a candidate belonging to the RLD had won the elections in 2012. Sudesh Sharma of the RLD had trounced his nearest rival, Rajpal Singh of the BSP, by 13,949 votes.
 
 The assembly segment of Modinagar is under Baghpat parliamentary constituency. In the last Lok Sabha elections, former Mumbai police commissioner Satyapal Singh won from the area on BJP ticket. RLD supremo Ajit Singh trailed at third position in Modinagar.
 
 This time, Modinagar is the only seat in NCR from which a major political party has fielded a woman candidate. The BJP has fielded city-based gynecologist, Dr Manju Siwach, as its candidate from Modinagar.
 
 
