
After years of trying out pricey lotions, herbal potions and even meditation, finally a simple cheek swab solved Manisha Sawant’s acne problem. Sawant, 32, got her   tested to find out the root cause of these unsightly breakouts on her face. “It turned out that I have a mutation in the gene controlling inflammation which makes me more prone to acne. This insight helped my dermatologist customise my skin prescription and after a few months I started seeing results,” says Sawant, a counsellor based in Mumbai.
 
 Ever since the human genome was mapped in 2003, researchers have been finding ways to utilise this knowledge -- from testing genes for serious ailments like cancer and heart disease to establishing paternity. Now people are going for DNA tests to seek answers to weight issues and poor skin health.
 
 Xcode, a DNA lab based in Chennai, has carried out a few thousand tests for lifestyle issues in the past three years, says its co-founder Dr Saleem Mohammed. “Genes influence all things including disease, health, beauty, speed of ageing, physical attributes, etc. For skin, one can find out attributes such as premature wrinkling, collagen breakdown, oxidative stress, glycation (dark patches). Based on this information, individuals (and professional practitioners) can tailor therapies that are appropriate for the individuals, as opposed to the same set of creams and treatments that are mass produced and given to everyone,” says Dr Mohammed.
 
 In Pune, the Gene Support lab will be starting a skin DNA panel later this month. “But we have been doing tests for hair loss for the past seven years and have carried out more than 2,000 tests so far,” says Dr Amol Raut, founder of Gene Edit (Gene Edit or Gene Support??) and a molecular biologist. To find out if one is likely to suffer from baldness, his/her ‘AR gene’ is tested. In men a specific mutation indicates predisposition towards balding while in women the entire gene is scanned to identify certain codes that repeat themselves. Their presence indicates early hair loss in women. “The findings of the test are analysed along with other factors like nutrition, grooming and infections and then a suitable treatment plan is chalked out,” explains Dr Raut.
 
 Wellness company   launched its DNA Skin programme in 2015 and has carried out more than 1,000 tests so far. The cost starts at Rs 5,000 and can go up to Rs 20,000 or even a lakh depending on the number and type of genes tested.
 
 More than skin health, people flock to DNA labs to get fit. Bengaluru-based Ryan Fernando got his DNA tested in 2014 to understand his body better and lead a healthier lifestyle. “I had been a bread and roti eater all my life but the test showed that I was gluten intolerant. In the gym my trainers always told me to run, run, run…but I was genetically indisposed towards aerobic exercises and more suited to weight training. So, I made the switch. The test also showed that my collagen synthesis was low, which translates to higher risk of joint problems. 
 
 So, I avoid high-impact exercises and wear knee support while working out. Overall, these changes made me feel more energetic and healthier,” says Fernando, chief nutritionist at Qua Nutrition, a nutrition consultancy firm, where he uses DNA testing to draw up precise diet plans. In the past he has coached Olympian Sushil Kumar, cricketers Robin Uthappa and   and actor   to get his wrestler bod for Dangal.
 
 For parents of many budding athletes, the DNA test enables them to do some crystal ball gazing and improve their child’s sporting prospects.
 
 Roshan Uday, an aspiring swimmer based in Belgaum, undertook a DNA-based diet in 2012 and went on to win medals in the National Swimming Championship. “Roshan used to feel very tired, had developed patches on the skin and suffered loose motions,” says Nisha, his mother. After the DNA test it came to light that he was genetically predisposed to low haemoglobin and was deficient in Vitamin B3. After starting on the diet, his haemoglobin rose and do did his performance in the pool.
 
 Dr Mohammed explains that one body type will not fit into different sports which demand varied physical attributes. “DNA tests help us understand these differences and tailor fitness regimens that are better suited to the body type and hence draw maximum benefit for the time invested in the activity.”
 
 However, not everyone is sold on the idea. Mumbai-based dermatologist Dr Apratim Goel approaches DNA testing with caution. “These tests predict how you will age or what kind of skin troubles you’ll have. The fact is that these things are not just governed by genes but also our environment, which is constantly changing. When these labs are charging you the sky, they better give you a foolproof idea of the future,” says Dr Goel. 
 
 
 
 
 
  Aerobic capacity: High capacity means aerobic exercise suits you better 
  Power: certain variations point to better performance at sprints
  Endurance: can tell if you will or won’t do well as a long-distance runner
  Collagen synthesis: Low synthesis means higher risk of injuries 
 
 
 Sensitivity to carbs & fats: high sensitivity means you should eat less of these
  Lactose intolerance: Positive means you shoul avoid dairy
  Alcohol metabolism: Variation tells you if you have low tolerance for alcohol
 
 
 Detoxification: high capacity, clearer skin
  Ability to fight free radicals: the higher the better for skin
  Inflammation response: an over-reactive response can lead to breakouts
 
