CHENNAI: An India-Australia clash over the past decade has never been short of fireworks, both on and off the field. Even the Test series earlier this year had its share of controversies with  's 'brain fade' saga stirring things up. India vice-captain   too on Friday mentioned that the battle between the two teams is all about "aggression".

 However, the Aussies don't seem to be in a mood to engage in verbal volleys in the lead-up to this series. It's been nearly a week since Australia landed in Chennai ahead of the first ODI and there have been as many as five interactions leading up to the opening match. But the Aussies have seemed more focused on the job at hand and haven't indulged in any "mental disintegration" talk.
 
 Smith, right at the outset, had said that the series will be played in "good spirit". Even the Indian team, which began their preparations with the first nets session here, is looking forward to playing the series without "crossing the limits". "Both teams are aggressive. The spirit of the game needs to be maintained and there's a line that needs to be drawn. We all know as professional cricketers we shouldn't cross our limits. We all want to play aggressive cricket but there will be a line which we shouldn't cross," Rohit said.
 
 
 
 
 Vice-captain Rohit hinted that his Ranji teammate   is likely to open in the first match while   will continue to bat at No. 4. The slot fell vacant on Thursday when   pulled out of the first three ODIs to be with his ailing wife. "The captain looks at Rahul as No. 4 batsman. Ajinkya is one of the guys who can replace Dhawan. He had a great series in the West Indies where he was the Man of the Series. I think both the coach and the captain clearly spoke about the roles each individual has to play. Before the start of Sri Lanka our, the captain said he is looking at KL as a No 4 batsman. Ajinkya has opened in the West Indies," said Rohit.
 
 
 
 
 The 2013 India-Australia ODI series turned out to be a nightmare for bowlers. The average innings total during the South Africa ODI series in 2015 was 311. During the England ODI series earlier this year it was 350. It looks like the bowlers are set to suffer again. Australia's practice match against Board President's XI at Chepauk gave a hint of what could follow as the visitors posted 347 runs.
 
 Just "a glance" at the Chepauk wicket on Friday evening was enough for Rohit to predict a "high-scoring" affair. "It's a good, hard wicket so plenty of runs," he said. 
 
