NEW DELHI: The probe into the telephone exchange-military espionage racket busted by intelligence agencies and the   of UP Police seems to indict  , a software engineer arrested from Mehrauli in south Delhi. Sain was sent to judicial custody on Thursday. On Friday, he will be remanded in police custody with four others.

 The cops increasingly believe that Sain is the key player in the phone racket and an integral part of the espionage activities of Pakistan’s ISI. He ran three parallel phone exchanges in Aliganj in Lucknow, Sitapur and Hardoi. People in Pakistan and Bangladesh made calls over the internet on these exchanges, which converted them to voice calls for receivers in India.
 
 However, the receivers could only see Indian numbers on their phone screens. Since this also served to throw off agencies tracking suspicious calls, Pakistan’s ISI used the exchanges to call army officers in a bid to extract information from them.
 
 Sain’s passport details showed he had travelled to Afghanistan twice, living in that country for a cumulative five years. Originally from Sikar in Rajasthan, Sain claimed that he had worked in Afghanistan as an IT expert. He told police he had returned to India and joined an engineering coaching institute, and worked as an expert at its Punjabi Bagh unit while also conducting tuition classes for IIT aspirants.
 
 The cops are digging into the funding of the companies floated by him, and efforts are on to identify the amounts received from foreign countries. The cops have already established Sain’s association with a firm that supplies defence articles to the US and Pak armies, sources said.
 
 Sain began by starting a company called MD Technologies, named after his father, Matadeen Sain. He claimed to have acquired a licence to make wireless products. He also began providing internet and telecom services through the three parallel phone exchanges he set up. The SIM cards he used, procured on forged identities, were provided by Vishal Kakkad and Harshit Gupta, who have been arrested.
 
 The others arrested are Rahul Singh, Vinit Dikshit, Rahul Rastogi, Uttam Shukla, Vikas Verma, Shivendra Mishra, Rishi Hora and Shyam Babu. The UP ATS had been helped by the TERM (Telecom Enforcement Resource and Monitoring) cell of the union telecom ministry in understanding technicalities such as call spoofing and SIM box-aided call transfers that Sain employed.
 
