In the post-travel ban US, where unexpect ed travel restrictions and checks reign, Sikhs have started shelving or postponing their plans to travel outside US fearing trouble on their return.

 “I booked my ticket in August 2016 to visit India from December 28 to February 8, 2017, but I started having second thoughts following the Trump executive order and have cancelled my trip. At that time, my co-workers and family were surprised, but once immigration attorneys started issuing warnings they have realized that my decision was right,“ said California-based IT consultant   from   who is in the US on H1B visa.
 
 “A couple of my US citizen relatives who had planned to visit Punjab a few days back, too have postponed their plan till the time there is some clarity on the immigration policies,“ said   executive director Satnam Singh Chahal.
 
 Word is being spread among green card holders about not filling the Form I-407 provided by  , which pertains to abandonment of lawful permanent resident status. Colorado-based Punjabi businessman Kehar Singh Gill said while those having American citizenship are not concerned, people with green card or on H1B visa were worried. “A friend of my son also scrapped his plan to visit India due to the climate of uncertainty .“
 
 “We came to India for the marriage of my daughter, but those who do not have important commitments have started cancelling their travel plans,“ said Seattle-based H S Preet, who belongs to Phagwara and used to edit a prominent magazine on Punjabi music.
 
 California-based Mangal Singh Bhandaal, who migrated to US in 1979 and set up a trucking company, feels people have to bide their time and things will settle down after sometime.
 
 “I voted for Trump as Democrats had ruined the business by framing policies which were detrimental to the interests of businessmen. We will have to give him some time on this front. Sikhs don't need to fear him as his target is stopping illegal immigration to US,“ he claimed.
 
 “We have been getting calls from US NRIs reflected this scare, especially among those who are not permanent citizens,“ said S K Chopra of Chopra Foreign Travels, who also heads the Travel Agents Association, Punjab, and has his kin settled in US.
 
