When the city simmers at 48 degree Celsius, just 110 kms away from Nagpur on a hillock in Multai district of Madhya Pradesh it’s a cool 24.5 degree Celsius and a gentle breeze blows throughout the day. This nature’s paradise is actually man-made as city businessman Manohar Tarkunde has planted at least 7 lakh trees on the barren hills which he has named Malhara.

 “As my company is engaged in building of civil infrastructure like dams, we had to uproot at least 1.5 lakh trees in Chandrapur district when we were constructing the Irai dam there,” says Tarkunde who is the chairman of a private firm. “This gave me sleepless nights and I promised myself that I would plant more than double the number of trees one day.”
 
 The opportunity came when Tarkunde came in possession of 275 acres of land at Multai. “I have always been interested in ago tourism and wanted to create a hill station near Nagpur. This location was perfect as it is 2,450 above the sea level. What also intrigued me was that though everywhere the wind blows from South to North, here it is reverse as it blows from North to South throughout the day,” says Tarkunde.
 
 Once covered with lush forests of teak, ‘karamz’ and other local vegetation, the hills had turned brown and barren due to extensive felling by local people. Tarkunde planted trees of neem, gulmohar, teak, sandalwood. “We studied the bio-diversity of the area and planted ten lakh trees of which around seven lakh survived. These trees give sufficient food to the birds and wild life. Over the past three years we have seen peacocks, a wide variety of birds, rabbits, wild boars, nilgai and chinkara thriving in these forests created by us,” he says.
 
 Utilizing 50 acres of the area for experimental farming, numerous varieties of mango, guava, avocados, blueberry, gooseberry, star awala, passion fruit and olive trees have also been planted. “We are not using any chemical fertilizer here so the growth is slow but all the trees are flourishing,” he says.
 
 “We have used the zero budget system of agriculture under the guidance of Padma Shri awardee Subhash Palekar and Hemant Chauhan. We make our manure from raw cow dung at a mind-boggling low cost from ‘desi’ cows that we are nurturing here,” says Tarkunde.
 
 With an underlying theme of eco-friendly development even in the construction work taking place, mud and ash bricks are utlilised. “We are using materials which require less energy in their production,” informs Tarkunde.
 
 “We engaged in watershed management on the lines of Shirpurkar pattern which involves utilizing rain water that is not allowed to flow down a stream. Instead trenches are dug to collect it and it then runs underground,” says Tarkunde.
 
 The effort has successfully raised the groundwater table from 73 meters seven years back, when he started, to 83 meters today. A water reservoir was also made in a one-acre area with a depth of 10 meters. “Adding a two-meter wall at certain portions of this reservoir helped in raising water levels by 2 meters,” he informs. 
 
 The water body now provides nearly 8,000 cubic meters of water for the plantations. Three small dams were also built to hold water. “We were buying water previously for these plantations but are now doing it with gravity flow-drip irrigation,” he says. 
 
 Not just conserving water, the place also utilizes solar and wind power to generate electricity. “There are 20 solar lights and we keep adding to that number and the windmill generates 1.25kW per hour which gives 24 hours supply to the three buildings constructed here by us,” informs Tarkunde. A solar pump installed here fills up one major tank which fills other tanks in the area by gravity.
 
 To create opportunities for agro-tourism in the vicinity, Tarkunde has developed a one-acre model farm where children can come and see how farming is done. “This being a hilly terrain, a lot of natural farming takes place here,” says Tarkunde.
 
 A butterfly park specially created to promote natural flora and fauna provides a picturesque sight. “We have engaged experts from Goa who have guided us in this. Butterflies depend upon two types of plants one on which they lay their eggs and the other for food or nectar which are flowering plants. We started eight months back and already at least ten varieties of butterflies can be spotted here,” he adds. 
 
 “We are also developing a five km natural trail for walks and jogs as the oxygen levels here are very high and the air is free of pollutants,” Tarkunde explains.
 
 
