  :   has claimed that it has reduced   by 52% in   in the last seven years through an Indo-German participatory natural resource management project. 

 Addressing a   here on Friday, chief executive officer of the project, AK Gupta, said the feat was achieved in 70 tribal villages under 11 development blocks of the districts. He added that German Development Bank KfW had given Rs 87 crore in 2009 under bilateral cooperation between India and Germany and Tripura government contributed Rs 34 crore in the project to improve the livelihood of forest-dependent communities.
 
 Over 7,000 Jhumia families have shifted to mainstream professions following the project. As many as 4,000 tribal youths got employment after vocational training, he claimed.
 
 Appreciating the achievement of the project, chief minister Manik Sarkar said statistics showed more than 12,000 landless families in the hills were able to earn at least Rs 10,000 per month through agriculture, horticulture and forestry related activities due to gainful intervention of the project.
 
 "About 5,000 families were brought under fishery activities by constructing 810 checkdams, 1700 beneficiaries involved in business with revolving funds with zero per cent default history and 18,000 families got involved in alternative livelihood activities," said Sarkar. 
 
 He asked the forest department to formalise the strategy to support the beneficiaries in villages after withdrawal of funding under Indo-German Development Cooperation (IGDC). "If the forest department also withdraws it's support from villages after the project funding ends, the villagers will not be able to sustain the efforts. I feel state government can continue the support in the necessary sectors to maintain this success," said Sarkar. 
 
 KfW officials, beneficiaries and experts from across the country, officials of World Bank and UNDP also attended the workshop to learn about the success stories. According to a report, as many as 70 self-run institutions have been set up to bolster livelihood activities after the project.
 
 
