BENGALURU: Jets soared past and the choppers stopped for the shutterbugs as   2017 got underway on Tuesday, but the show didn’t have a flying start that it has been synonymous with over the years, with empty seats at the inaugural indicating a withered interest.

 The sombre mood was also indicative in the choice of music — if ‘Unforgiven’ by Metallica played as cover for PM Narendra Modi in the previous edition, Tuesday had country music playing in the background as defence minister Manohar Parrikar and the three service chief took the dais.
 
 The speeches had all the right keywords and were punctuated by what seemed to be choreographed applause, but a lack of major takeaways was apparent with neither the industry not the hoi polloi hearing anything new.
 
 The biennial event this year has 549 companies taking part, including 279 from abroad, plunging from last edition’s 644 of which 326 were foreign firms.
 
 Not in sync, Parrikar said the “continued interest from exhibitors and companies reflects the show’s growing popularity.”
 
 He said that the Centre was committed to creating a good defence and aerospace ecosystem and that would include ease of doing business for private firms and revitalizing the defence PSUs.
 
 Stating that while the domestic defence manufacturers will play a major role in making India a defence hub, he said, “The large number of defence licences given in the past few years is indicative of this and the government’s stand on involving private firms.”
 
 Parrikar, while stating that big foreign OEMs (original equipment manufacturers) will aid and support the indigenous industries, said: “But the priority will be given to those firms that will design and develop in India.” He added that the government has even set up the Defence Innovative Fund, with initial funding from defence PSUs Hindustan Aeronautics Limited and Bharat Electronics Limited. The fund will encourage new development with a focus on startups.
 
 “...The PSUs are being revitalized too and efforts will be made to support greater capacities in design in India,” he said. Besides, Parrikar said all PSUs and the ordnance factories have been given strict targets for outsourcing — aiding domestic private firms.
 
 Speaking about private participation, the minister spoke of the Future Infantry Combat Vehicles, and said at least 20 other projects under Make in India have been cleared for the army, navy and the air force.
 
 Co-host Karnataka was represented by industries minister R V Deshpande, who said the state has seen 33 projects worth over
 
 Rs 15,000 crore in the   since 2013. He, as usual, boasted about the ecosystem and manpower availability in Karnataka, but nothing special was announced.
 
