KOCHI: If figures are to be believed, then Kerala has witnessed a drop in student enrolment to private schools. While in 2014, almost 62 % students in the age group of 6 to 14 were enrolled in private schools, in 2016, it dropped to 55 %. While government schools saw an increase in student enrolment from 37 % in 2014 to 45 % in 2016, as per Annual Status of Education Report (Rural) 2016.

 In the rest of the country, for the first time since 2006, ASER shows that private school enrolment has not increased in fact, it has fallen marginally from 30.8% in 2014 to 30.5% in 2016. It is pertinent to note, that 64 % schools in the state are private schools. More government schools are functioning in lower primary section than upper primary or high school sections.
 
 “Kerala and Gujarat are the only two states were we have seen an increase in enrolment in government schools,“ said  , research associate, ASER Centre, New Delhi. In Kerala, the proportion of children (age 11-14) enrolled in government school also increased from 40.6% in 2014 to 49.9% in 2016.
 
 More students in   are inclined to join government schools, while more number of students in   joins private schools. While 60 % students in central Kerala between ages 6 and 14 are enrolled in private schools, in north Kerala it is 45 %. The figure for south Kerala, which tops the list, is 62 %.
 
 Usha Titus, secretary, department of general education said that this is only a beginning and the enrolment in government schools is set to go up further as the government invests in public schools.
 
 “Parents are now seeing a vibrant environment in government schools. There is emphasis on infrastructure development ­ both physical and digital ­ and the teachers are much better qualified,“ said Titus.
 
 ASER is a household survey that provides estimates of children's schooling status and their ability to read simple text and do basic arithmetic. The survey reaches almost all rural districts of India and covers children in the age group 3-16.
 
 Educationist   said that it is good that finally government schools are able to hold their ground on private schools. “But still a lot more needs to be done by focussing on teacher's training. Infrastructure has definitely improved,“ he said.
 
 However, private school managements don't agree with the figures.“There was a trend till last year when students from CBSE schools would shift to state government schools as it is easy to score marks in the Board exams. But this year there is a reverse flow and students are returning to our schools as there is no state medical entrance exam,“ said president of Kerala CBSE School Management Association, TPM Ibrahim Khan.
 
