If you’re in the mood for a spiritual outing with a historic backstory,   is the place for you. Devotees from Karnataka and Maharashtra throng the temple, which hosts a Siddha Samsthan Math of Jagdguru  .

 Thousands visit every day as the temple is known as a centre of knowledge, devotion and renunciation. Local lore has it that the Chhatrapati of Kolhapur, along with his army visited this holy shrine to seek blessings.
 
 How to get there
 
 Nidasoshi village is located in Hukkeri tehsil of Belagavi district at a 66-km distance and is an hour’s drive from Kolhapur. Travelling southwards on the   national highway 4, one has to take a left turn towards Sankeshwar town, from where Nidasoshi village lies at a distance of 5km.
 
 Legend has it
 
 Villagers believe that this holy place is three centuries old. Sunil Tanodi, a member of the temple trust said, ‘Shree Durudundeeshwar was a monk from the Himalayas and was known as Shivalingeshwar. He chose Duradundi village in Gokak tehsil to propagate his divine teachings, and so got the name — Durudundeeshwar. After some years, the Monk went on to Nidasoshi and settled in the forest by the side of Karpur stream.”
 
 Shri Nijalingeshwar in Nidasoshi was a loyal devotee of the Durudundeeshwar and offered him his service. Pleased by the loyal work of his disciple   promised that he would be present at Nidasoshi in the form of sacred leaves of ‘bail patra’, sacred ash and rudraksh. Thus, making it a Shivaling worshipped by all religious community especially Lingayats — worshippers of lord Shiva. 
 
 Nidasoshi Math came to be established by Nijalingeshwar and so saints who ascend the spiritual throne are named Shri ‘Shivalingeshwar’ and ‘Nijalingeshwar’.
 
 About the Math
 
 The math of Shri Durudundeeshwar is a treat for architecture lovers and photography enthusiasts.
 
 Anand Shirkoli, a Nidasoshi villager, said, “The math has 434 pillars in all and one can get an idea of its enormity from this. There is a huge ‘mahadwar’ or entrance measuring 58 feet with a ‘gopur’ at the top. The main temple has an idol of Shri Durudundeshwar and has 38 stone pillars carved beautifully with birds, animals and other symbols. The mahaprasad facility is provided 24x7 at the Math for the devotees and one can also visit non-commercial cow farm operated by the math trust as a social service.”
 
