LUCKNOW: With the UP   juggernaut moving from the west and Rohilkhand to the central region, the battle for the state’s crown has turned fiercer. The third phase of UP elections on Sunday will have a significant bearing on the overall result as far as the ruling Samajwadi party is concerned.

 The phase comprises the   belt and state capital Lucknow, where SP nearly swept the polls in 2012, winning 54 out of 69 seats up for grabs. This was even better than BJP’s show in 2014   polls when the saffron party took lead in 52 assembly segment.
 
 Apart from Etawah, Kannauj and Mainpuri, the three district considered Yadav family’s stronghold, the nine other districts of the Awadh region going to the polls include state capital Lucknow, industrial hub Kanpur, Barabanki and Sitapur. Samajwadi Party nearly swept all these districts and the constituencies falling in the phase gave the party an unbeatable lead in 2012.
 
 This time, the recent family feud in the party initially threatened the prospects of the ruling party, but with the leadership issue appearing to be settled and chief minister Akhilesh Yadav firmly in the saddle, the party supporters are in a buoyant mood. Akhilesh in fact spent a whole day in Etawah and Mainpuri, addressing seven rallies in two districts to assure the party’s ‘core voters’ that all was well.
 
 Both BJP and BSP, on the other hand, can hardly do worse than the last time, when they had won just six seats each. The BJP has filded a large number of strong turncoats, many of them sitting MLAs of the rival parties, to bolster its chances. After wooing Muslim voters in the first two phases, BSP is now back to basics as this round has a very high number of dalit voters -- much higher than the state average. Nineteen of the 69 seats of this phase are reserved for the scheduled caste candidates.
 
 The fate of three members of Yadav family -- former minister Shivpal Yadav from Jaswantnagar , Mulayam’s younger daughter-in-law Aparna Yadav in Lucknow Cantonment and his nephew Anurag Yadav in Sarojiningar -- will be decided on Sunday. While Shivpal won by more than 80,000 votes in 2012 despite visiting the constituency just once, this time he is camping there since the announcement of polls on January 4. Both Aparna and Anurag are locked in a tough contest in their respective constituencies.
 
 Other big names in the fray are former BSP MP Brijesh Pathak, former UPCC chief Rita Bahuguna Joshi -- both on BJP tickets; SP ministers Arvind singh Gope, Ravidas Mehrotra, Fareed Mehfooz Kidwai, Abhishek Mishra and Aruna Kori; BJP spoeskperson Hriday Narain Dikshit, BJP veteran Lalji Tandon’s son Gopalji Tandon.
 
 
