NEW DELHI: A 26-year-old   has alleged that she was sexually assaulted, beaten up and robbed of her money and iPhone inside   adjacent to   Village in   around 1.30am on Sunday by a man who had befriended her.

 CCTV footages of several pubs have been scanned to identify the suspect. A sketch of the offender has been circulated along with CCTV grabs among beat policemen. An FIR under IPC sections of  , robbery and assault has been registered at Safdarjung Enclave police station. Police suspect a restaurant staff or some local may have committed the crime.
 
 The woman had gone pub-hopping with her sister and friends around 9pm. The two sisters live in a rented accommodation at Munirka and work at a spa in Mahipalpur.
 
 The friends went to three pubs at Hauz Khas village ending their revelry at Moonshine restaurant. The sisters were returning home around 1am when they met two men on the street.
 
 The men struck a conversation with them and the elder sister began to walk ahead with one of them who said that he would drop her home. She took a rickshaw with the man and went to her house in Munirka. Sources said the man stayed at her house for two hours and was spotted going out of Munirka around 2.30am in a CCTV. This woman did not lodge any complaint with the police.
 
 Meanwhile, the other man told the younger sister that he had parked his car on the other side of the park so they could take a short cut through it.
 
 “He told me that there was a beautiful lake in the park and that we could go and sit there for some time and talk. The park gate was locked, so we scaled the wall. Once we were inside the park, he began to sexually assault me,” the woman said.
 
 After an argument, the woman screamed at him. A brief scuffle ensued during which she hit the man with a stone. “He started bleeding and began to hit me brutally. He snatched my bag and threw it away. After hitting me for five minutes, he took away my iPhone and Rs 500 and left. I then climbed over the wall and came out,” the woman added.
 
 Around 1.30am, the area SHO and ACP were on patrol along with other policemen. When they saw her scaling the wall, the SHO asked her why she had gone inside. She narrated her ordeal after which she was taken for medical examination. Three teams launched a search operation, but the suspect had fled by then.
 
 Police are also trying to get a complaint from the older sister after which a separate FIR of rape may be registered at Vasant Vihar police station.
 
 
