
 
  As we drove into Chennai, I could feel my pulse race. As a  , there is nothing more exciting than visiting the sites that the people I study lived in, seeing original documents they signed and walking in their footsteps. The thrill is the same — for those I do not relate to, or even those I actively dislike. I could feel the hand of history on my shoulder as I crossed through the check-point into Fort St George. The symbolism could not be greater, just days before   becomes the 45th president of the United States. Because this is where the path that led to his electoral success originates.
  
  Just over 250 years ago,   arrived in India. Few would have bet on him to be successful. He had been renowned for his temper tantrums as a child, and patience was certainly not one of his virtues when he arrived in Madrassapatinam. He twiddled his thumbs unhappily as a clerk until the French attacked and captured Fort St George in 1746. Clive escaped after being taken prisoner and thence began a remarkable career that saw him rise higher and higher in the service of the   at a time when the Company was moving from being involved primarily in trade to a role of intervening in the politics of India to its own benefit — and that of its officers. Clive’s remarkable ability to influence events and to be in the right place at the right time eventually led him to Plassey in 1757, where he defeated Siraj ud-Dawla, the nawab of Bengal and his French allies. With the treasuries of Bengal and northern India opened up to him, Clive could not only claim to be a successful general, but also one of the richest men in the world.
  
  He — and his fellow officers — helped themselves to fortunes that would today be valued in their billions. If this was not bad enough, then what followed was harrowing. Diversion of funds had a dramatic impact on prices, made worse by unusually dry conditions at the end of the 1760s. The price of wheat in particular began to soar. It was not long before reports began to be received of mass starvation, not only in Bengal but in other states — like Bihar and beyond.
  
  Millions died from hunger. Even the governor-general declared that a third of the population of Bengal had starved to death, something made more astonishing by the fact that food shortages in this region had previously been all but unknown in history.
  
  Clive was back in England by the time of the famine, enjoying his wealth at home. But he was called to account in parliament in London in the early 1770s. When asked about the suffering of millions in India, Clive simply answered — like the chief executive of a distressed bank — that his priorities had been to protect the interests of shareholders, not those of the local population; his responsibility was to the East India Company — not to poor Indians and Bengalis whom he described as either ‘servile, mean, submissive and humble’ or ‘luxurious, effeminate, tyrannical, treacherous, venal, cruel’. He deserved no criticism, surely, for doing his job.
  
  These answers met with howls of derision from some in parliament. But his attitude — and the suffering in Bengal — had a much more dramatic impact on the other side of the world. Reports about how the British had behaved circulated extensively in North America. Leaflets and pamphlets were widely distributed in Pennsylvania that described the East India Company as an institution ‘well versed in Tyranny, Plunder, Oppression, and Bloodshed’. If the British were prepared to let those in India die from hunger, why not in the colonies in America too?
  
  With the Declaration of Independence in 1776, those living in 13 colonies proclaimed a United States of America, free from rule of the Kingdom of Great Britain that was guilty of ‘repeated injuries and usurpations.’ The time had come, the founding fathers said, to put an end to the ‘long train of abuses and usurpations’ and to cast free the shackles and become free. It was time, in other words, to make America great.
  
  The attempts to recall the glory days of the US were at the heart of Donald Trump’s election campaign — where the slogan ‘Make America Great Again’ was plastered all over banners, baseball caps and memorabilia. As the world holds its breath to see what kind of president Trump will be, it is a curious fact that whatever happens in the next four years traces back to Tamil Nadu: no Madrassapatinam, then no East India Company or British Empire; no East India Company, then no Robert Clive; no Robert Clive, then no US independence. No US independence, then no Donald Trump.
  
  The world is a much more connected place than we sometimes recognise. Sometimes events that take place on one side of the world have an effect many thousands of miles away. Studying history can help us identify these connections, and in doing so, help us better understand the past and the present.
  
  The future is always harder to work out. But it is a curious fact that we will have the ancestors of those living in Chennai today to thank — or to take issue with — if Trump turns out to be a very good, or a very bad, president.
  
  
 
