MUMBAI: The overgrowth has been trimmed and walls whitewashed at   citywide ahead of Thursday's festival of  . Through the night till the wee hours of Friday, throngs of men and little boys will arrive at graveyards to pray for the  .

 Shab E' Baraat occurs 15 days before the advent of Ramzan which falls May 28 this year.
 
  of Nagpada said, "This occasion is doubly significant. Allah Almighty showers reward and blessings on those who offer   (gifts of prayer or charity) for the deceased. Also it is this day that Allah opens the annual Book of Deeds for each Muslim, and determines his income as well as important life events like marriage, birth and death during the course of the year. What better way to spend this night than in remembrance of Allah and his Prophet."
 
  at Four Bungalows has whitewashed its walls and strung beautiful fairy lights and overhanging pink drapes to welcome 5,000 odd worshippers. Maulana Mohammed Shahid Nadwi of the mosque said, "Shab E' Baraat is equally a night for the living to seek pardon for their sins. Allah descends to the lowest heaven and calls out to ask if there is anyone who seeks blessings, health, livelihood or prosperity, and rewards those who ask. However, certain Muslims including those who associate partners with Allah, disobey their parents or drink alcohol are not forgiven."
 
 Bada Kabrastan at Marine Lines will receive over 10,000 people at the 4,000 graves located in its four acre precinct, said chairman Nazir Tungekar. "We have a heavy police presence as well as CCTVs and barricades to manage the crowd," Tungekar said. The Baqar trust of Bandra (E) kabrastan has 800 graves that are visible from the Harbour Line trains. This graveyard will also come alive with prayer and speeches, said spokesperson Afzal Fakih.
 
 Islam places enormous importance on praying for the 'maghfirat' (forgiveness) of the deceased in the afterlife. Even in the ordinary course, namazis who visit mosques that are attached to cemeteries do briefly halt and pray at the graveyard. But Shab E' Baraat is that special night of the year when Muslims arrive to recite passages from the Holy Quran, sprinkle water or offer flowers and chadar at all graves, not just those of their own relatives.
 
 An attendant at the Andheri Kabrastan said, "We also sell flowers to people who arrive at the graves. A few years ago, the morning after Shab E' Baraat, my brothers and I decided to see which grave was devoid of flowers and sprinkle rose petals on it. There wasn't a single one. It was one vast carpet of petals. Each visitor offers flowers to every grave in the surrounding patch."
 
 Shab E' Baraat also serves to remind the living of their own mortality. Special prayers are held all night and the gathering disperses at daybreak. Families distribute food, especially halwa, as charity. Several people observe 'roza' on one or both days.
 
