 might have made a name for herself in Sandalwood, but her career in the Tamil industry has just begun. Having started off with  , to now gearing up for the release of Bejoy Nambiar’s  , Sruthi says her Kollywood journey has been quite a ride. Excerpts:

 
 
 I got a call from Bejoy’s office, and I was told that he was directing a film and wanted me to audition for it. I didn’t ask any questions and took the scene immediately. I remember auditioning for an entire day. I shot in Bangalore and sent it to Mumbai. They immediately reverted with feedback. So, the process took a day. The next day they told me that I was on board. It was then I heard that the character of Shiva is being played by Dulquer. And they had already shot some portions of Shiva and were waiting to shoot with me in the following schedule. Coming to Rukku, my character in the film, she’s a fiercely independent vociferous woman. She gets her way, come what may. She represents women from that stratum of society (gangster story) who work on a daily basis to make ends meet. So, she’s kind of strong, loud, and a highly dramatic person. There’s only one shot of her where she’s smiling. The point where comes in the film is when she loses her heart to love. How her world mixes with Shiva’s is where Rukku comes into her own in this story. 
 
 
 
 It was very interesting working with the team like Bejoy Nambiar’s. They come from a whole different school of thought, not similar to the ones I have worked with before. And when I say this, it is not just Bejoy, it includes even the cast like Prakash Belawadi, Manoj and Q who are there in this story. Every single level of this film is experimental and that’s pretty exciting. I think it is the right time for cinema to be experimented within India, especially Tamil and Malayalam. Bejoy knows his craft very well. Whenever he writes a character, there is a lot of back story that’s been given to that role. Even the female characters that he writes are very strong. He loves improv. Apart from being clear, he’s fun to be with off the camera. 
 
 
 
 He’s phenomenal. He’s very passionate about acting. Even though I shot my scenes for just few days with him, it was nice to have worked with Dulquer. My portions were shot in Kochi and I dubbed for my portions in Tamil. But in Malayalam, they had to look for someone else as I have more of an urban accent. 
 
 
 
 Arun made it clear that I have to look old for the character as I am being paired opposite   Sarja. I had to look the character and I was perfectly fine with it. My journey so far in the Tamil industry has been like a car on first gear. It has been very slow... luck is one of the reasons and also, I am not based out of Chennai. Also, I must admit that I haven’t been getting too many opportunities. Thus, of the lot that I got, this was something that I shouldn’t have missed for whatever it was worth. As an actor, who is constantly looking for good opportunities, this was the best of the lot. All that I thought about at that time was that this film will be made, I will see a big release because it is backed by a good banner and it has well-known names in the star cast. I didn’t think about the age or about being stereotyped. It was purely thinking as an actor. For a film I did four years ago, I got Solo (the reason the team found me was because of Lucia). Today’s Nibunan will give me something interesting tomorrow. 
 
 
 
 I have thought about it. I have seen a lot of actors from Kannada, who have come here, making excellent debuts. I wish I had thought it all out that clearly, but I didn’t. But if this is how my journey has panned out, I am OK.
 
 
 
 I am not upset, but I am definitely wondering as to what went wrong. I know that if it had released, being a Balaji sir film, and with me playing the character that I got to play, it would have changed the game for me. There is this tiny regret that it didn’t release, but I hope it really does in the future. 
 
 
 
 Honestly, no. I am such a stickler for the process of filmmaking. If the process is exciting, I would lose my heart to it. The output is not in my hands. Even if a film releases, who guarantees the success of the film? I have seen way too many failures and success for it to matter to me. I am not saying this with any kind of regret. It’s the learning that matters. There are days when I am really excited and days when I am extremely sad, morose about where things are heading. I think every actor goes through those low days. I am destiny’s child... I never dreamt of myself as an actor. Acting happened and it is going well for now. I do see myself being part of filmmaking someday. It is just work that excites me, success or failure is not in my hands. 
 
 
 
 I don’t want to call it struggle; I am still fighting to survive. I have quite a few ongoing projects, but I haven’t signed anything new. That does scare me. There was a time when I uploaded my profile on TimesJobs hoping I find a job. I think it’s a struggle for every freelance artiste who doesn’t see a regular monthly payment. But to have handled then was easy as I could quit and still go back to leading a normal life. Now, I can’t do that because there is a set of people following my body of work. I have to work harder now. 
 
 
 
 Well, it all goes hand-in-hand as you have to pass all of these occupational hazards like casting couch and finally get to do things that make you happy, with respect. And this is something we as women will look for in every field. These occupational hazards still exist as it is a ‘system’ that has been there for long, but the ratio is less, though for us to uproot it is another longer process. But, let’s not blame the men alone; it’s high time women also stepped up and said no collectively. It’s your talent ultimately and not your performance behind closed doors that matters. 
 
 
 
 ...much better than they were portrayed five years ago! There is a change and I am saying this proudly. The kind of people who are making films now come from an educated background. They come respecting their women; they come from a society where there is no gender inequality. So, that’s the kind of sensibilities they have. Male filmmakers have learnt to incorporate stronger female characters in their films. There are films which have female characters in central roles that are doing well commercially. The game is changing and it is definitely positive. 
 
 
