CHENNAI: Only five of the around 62,000 children in   in the state were placed under   in the last five years, show records maintained by the  , even as the government recently came out with new rules to give impetus to de-institutionalisation of orphaned kids.

 Under the foster care programme, children who were abandoned by their biological parents, can be sent to new families for a temporary stay on the orders of the child welfare committee (CWC) based on the recommendation of the probation officer or the district child protection officer.
 
 Foster care method was mooted for abandoned children and those from dysfunctional families. It was aimed at placing these children with families, who already have children, on a voluntary basis without going through the legal has sles and the long wait for adoption.
 
 Officials in the department said there could be more children placed under foster care by NGOs, but the state had “no record“.
 
 In August, the state government came out with   (Care and Protection) Rules, 2017, which outline the roles of various stakeholders, including the CWC, the district child protection units, and the alternatives to institutionalisation -adoption, foster care and sponsorship.
 
 An RTI filed by CHANGEindia showed that 2,854 children were provided funds by the state. However, sources said `10 lakh given by the government to the department is allotted erratically and periodic “vulnerability surveys“ to identify children in need are not done.The government is now planning a series of campaigns to spread awareness on the programmes and rope in individuals and corporate houses who can assure these children a home and a family .
 
 Andal Damodaran, president of Indian Council of Child Welfare, said there were fewer takers for foster care here as unlike in countries like the UK -where nearly 70% of children in need of protection are in foster care. “We need a regularized programme that ensure close monitoring of the scheme right from choosing the parent,“ she said.
 
