Actors, pageant winners and all other dieters took a cheat day, and others cocked a snook at moderation, as they descended on the famous dinner spread at the Nandiya Gardens after the   and Nightlife Awards 2017 ceremony, held at the   Maurya, the event's hospitality partner. Here are few snapshots: 

 
  
  Babul Supriyo
 
 
 "The emcee says he's grown up on my music. I’m only 44, so I don’t know how that's possible!" said Babul Supriyo, MoS, Heavy Industries and Public Enterprises, and a popular singer.
 
 
  
  
 I am glad that I attended the Times Food and Nightlife Awards at this time – I don’t have to worry about dieting, since I’ve recently put on around 4kg for my role in my new show Sher-e-Punjab: Maharaja Ranjit Singh. When I entered, I was like chalo yeh khate hain, and then I looked around and saw achha yahan toh yeh sab bhi hai, sab kaise khaya jaye?!” said Shaleen Bhanot, TV actor. 
 
 I attended the Mumbai edition of the awards as well, and I had work immediately after that, but when I saw the lavish spread, I was so tempted that I postponed my meeting. After that experience, I was really looking forward to attending these awards in Delhi kyunki Dilli jaisa khana toh kahin nahin hai. I thought I’d rush home this time as well, but my love for food forced me to stay." said TV actor Ravi Dubey.
 
  
  Emcee Anuj Gurwara (L) with Vani Tripathi Tikoo, Central Board of Film Certification member 
 
 
 Emcee Anuj Gurwara called the UP election results a “devastating loss” when BJP’s Vani Tripathi Tikoo came on stage, but when she asked him why it was ‘devastating’, he laughingly bowed to apologize!
 
 I will definitely follow the Times Food Guide 2017 and the Times Nightlife Guide 2017 to guide me to the best of both in Delhi. Now I will know where to go for great food and have a good time in Delhi and Gurgaon. Every year, so many restaurants come up and you don’t know where to go whenever you’re planning to go out – the decision is always so difficult and everyone has different preferences, so it will be a great help." said Vani Tripathi Tikoo, Central Board of Film Certification member.
 
 
  
  Spl Commissioner (Operations) and   spokesperson Dependra Pathak
 
 
  
  Avantika Masand, Yamaha Fascino Miss Diva 2016 finalist (BCCL)
 
 
  
  Chandrasekar Radhakrishnan, senior VP & head of communications & e-commerce, Nestle India, with Times Group MD Vineet Jain (R) (BCCL)
 
 
 
  
  Delhi's young and beautiful: (L-R) Bigg Boss contestant and former Fresh Face winner Nitibha Kaul and Peter England Mr India 2016 first runner-up   (C, in blue coat) with Oppo Delhi Times Fresh Face '16 winners Hemi Kapoor, Sanya Sehgal, Raghav Luthra and Prabhjot Singh
 
 
 
 Food is something that resonates with me, and something that I love. I believe that eating in a restaurant isn’t simply about the food, but also creating an environment and ambience. What I respect about this evening is that the Times Group honours the people who do that best. Also, I have always wanted to be a restaurateur, so meeting the people who run the best food and nightlife joints in Delhi-NCR is a dream come true," said Viren Burman, Peter England Mr India 2016 first runner-up.
 
 I really think this is one event that the hotel and restaurant industry looks forward to, because this award is the biggest appreciation they can get for their work. The hospitality industry definitely needs this kind of appreciation and recognition. The food at the event is always a big draw for guests, and my favourite is the patisserie and mithai section," said Advaita Kala, writer.
 
 
  
  (L) Mariyam Khan and Krishna Khanna, Fresh Face Delhi '16 second runners-up
 
 
 
  
  Khatam kar diya: Charu Parashar
 
 
 
  
  Dinesh Khattar, principal, KMC, and Rama Sharma, principal, Hans Raj College (BCCL)
 
 
 
  
  Ayush and Salman, the members of the band 'Astitva' (BCCL)
 
 
  
  (L-R) Habib Ahmed
 
 
 
  
  (L-R) Imran Zahid, Shahnaz Husain and   (BCCL)
 
 
  
  (L) Sudhir Sobti, Rajarshi Sanyal and Abhijeet from the band 'Faridkot' (BCCL)
 
 
 
 
 
