BENGALURU/NEW DELHI: Through Sunday, the media was buzzing with reports that 
  for fuel from Monday. Anxious consumers, already grappling with a cash shortage, fretted that this would directly clash with the government’s efforts to wean people off cash and encourage digital payments.

 Finally, there was some relief on Sunday night after banks agreed to defer their decision to charge 1% transaction fee on   from Monday.
 
 The move had prompted dealers to say they would stop accepting plastic money unless a mechanism to compensate them was also put in place. Petroleum dealers have now said they will accept cards till January 13.
 
 The banks relented after prodding from oil minister   during discussions among bankers, dealers and representatives of state-run fuel retailers. “Banks have agreed to defer the fee for 4-5 days,” a senior oil ministry official said, indicating that a mechanism to compensate dealers would be worked out.
 
 At the heart of the dispute is the merchant discount rate (MDR). As in any other card transaction, the bank passes on the money to the petrol pump owner after deducting fees in the form of merchant discount rate. The agreement between the bank and the merchant has a clause that does not allow the merchant to pass on the charge. 
 
 But petrol pumps have argued that their margins are not enough to absorb this charge. So there has historically been a tacit agreement between banks and petrol pumps whereby banks charge a lower MDR of 1% and the petrol pumps pass on the MDR to the customer, calling it a surcharge. The banks would turn a blind eye to this, but would refund this surcharge to high end customers.
 
 Following 
  , the government said that petrol pumps would not pass on charges to customers and would in fact give them a discount. 
 
 The government also asked banks and payment companies to waive off charges on debit cards to merchants until December 31. 
 
 However, once the December 31 deadline lapsed, banks said MDR could not be zero as this would make electronic payments a loss-making business for both card issuers and POS installers. 
 
 Petrol pumps say they do not have the margins to absorb it. Oil marketing companies would take a big hit if they have to compensate banks for it as the collective amount paid by petrol pumps across the country would run into several hundred crores.
 
 Petroleum dealers said that SBI, HDFC Bank and Axis Bank had communicated to them about the surcharge on Saturday night. ICICI Bank, the country's largest private bank, said they had not sent any such communication.
 
 Following the notice, pump owners decided to stop accepting cards from Monday at a meeting of all dealers’ associations in Bengaluru on Sunday.
 
 All   ( ) president   told TOI from Bengaluru that the 1% levy has been announced even when they were not getting their due in settlement of the 0.75% discount announced by government in December.
 
 B R  , president, Akhila Karnataka Federation of Petroleum Traders and Bangalore Petroleum Dealers Association, said their net profit, after deducting all operational costs, stands at 0.3% to 0.5%. “If the banks straightaway levy a 1% transaction fee, where do they expect us to go? It becomes extremely difficult to survive in such circumstances.”
 
