NAGPUR: With land acquisition, specially its slow pace, proving to be bottleneck for most development projects in the state, the government may adopt creative approaches like direct negotiations with farmers, and starting work on projects where 50% acquisition is complete.

 Chief minister   on Tuesday chaired a ‘war-room’ meeting at Mantralaya in Mumbai. On the agenda for discussion were a number of ongoing development projects, including the long delayed Gosikhurd, Bembla irrigation projects to the newfangled Samruddhi Corridor (Nagpur-Mumbai superhighway), and   projects.
 
 While projects under the Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchan Yojana (PMKSY) have a provision for direct negotiations with farmers for land, the meeting arrived at a consensus to ease the norms further. In order to speed up the process, henceforth, search reports of last 15 years would be considered valid. Earlier, such reports right from year 1950 were a must for establishing title rights.
 
 Significantly, Fadnavis also deliberated on measures to remove some hurdles in establishing a zoo of international standards at Gorewada in the city on public-private partnership mode. Top officials of all departments were present at the marathon meeting.
 
 The review included progress of works as well as rehabilitation for irrigation projects like Jigaon, Gosikhurd and Bembla in Vidarbha, and Wang in Satara. It was decided that in irrigation projects where 50% of required land had been acquired, tenders for works like laying canals could be floated.
 
 The good news from the meeting was that five important irrigation projects taken up under PMKSY are to be completed by June 2017. These are Lower Dudhna, Lower Panjara, Bawanthadi, Warna and Dongargaon.
 
 The meeting was told that work for Metro Rail project in Nagpur is almost 40% complete. It was reiterated that newly established Maharashtra Metro would be the special planning authority for all metro rail projects in the state. Regarding   work, Fadnavis directed officials to allot government land at Shivaji Nagar and Balewadi. He also instructed officials to ensure that hurdles in allotment of land are removed by June 17.
 
