PATNA: After the weather god provided much needed respite from sweltering heat conditions in the state with rain over the past two to three days, the Sun god is back with his mercury mayhem. 

 While   (IMD) in its countrywide weather forecast issued on Friday stated that light rainfall is expected at isolated places in   over the next three to four days, weathermen at Patna meteorological centre did not seem quite optimistic about much showers in the region. 
 
 “Except for few places in north and east Bihar, we are expecting dry weather over next few days. Moreover, we are expecting westerly winds to set in the region from Sunday, which would lead to further surge in temperature at most places in the state,”   Shankar, a scientist at Patna meteorological centre told TOI. 
 
 Continuous dry westerlies allows the hot solar rays to freely penetrate the lower level of atmosphere, which in turn propels the Celsius surge.
 
 Meteorologists, however, claimed summer is comparatively cooler this time owing to frequent spells of Nor’wester thundershower. Anand said April was comparatively cool this year owing to around six Nor’wester thundershowers and average temperature in May has also been comparatively lower owing to the recent thunderstorm. 
 
 Winds blew at an average speed during the Nor’wester thunderstorm at almost entire state over the last three days, which also led to plunge in maximum as well as minimum temperature by 6-8 notches.   was also witnessed at a few places in north- east Bihar on Thursday. 
 
 “The frequency of Nor’wester activities is comparatively high this year and it has kept a tab on the Celsius surge. Though there has been heating of the atmosphere in the region, especially with westerly winds blowing in the region, it is also creating conducive conditions for formation of Nor’wester activities,” said Shankar. 
 
 As per meteorology, excess heating of the land during summer season results in convective currents that, in turn, help in formation of low cumulonimbus clouds, bringing rain accompanied by gusty winds, brewing a typical Nor’wester. The Nor’westers hitting Bihar normally originate from the   plateau region, when air heats up and gains altitude with moisture support from an anti-cyclonic circulation or similar weather system in China Sea or Bay of Bengal.
 
