NEW DELHI: The discovery of two rats in the food delivered to a government senior secondary school in Deoli a few days ago might have raised concerns over hygiene in the preparation of mid-day meals, but cleanliness is a very small part of the problem related to the school meal scheme in Delhi. For one, delay of payments to   affects their capacity to source supplies, leading, in turn, to compromises in the nutritional norms of the meals.

 Avnesh Goyal, manager of Matri Research & Development Foundation, a vendor based in Rohini, said he has been told the unpaid dues will reach them by second week of next month at the earliest. “It has been three months since we received our payments,” he said. Another NGO manager, Jaspreet Singh of Stri Shakti Foundation, said delays of a few months are now routine, sometimes even touching five months. “It becomes difficult to manage because we only get wheat and rice from the government. We still need to pay the costs on water, electricity, gas, vegetables, dal,” Singh said.
 
 Delhi government officials claim they have been unable to disburse money due to delays in release of funds by the central government. Atishi Marlena, advisor to education minister Manish Sisodia, said, “We have yet to receive the centre's share of the mid-day meal funds. We are planning to pay the vendors using our own funds and release the money at the earliest.” The mid-day meal is a part of Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan, funding for which is shared by the centre and the state government. 
 
 Lack of funds can adversely affect purchases and food quality. The vendors are supposed to add mashed vegetables to the dal and daliya to make the meal wholesome, but some are constrained to use inexpensive seasonal vegetables, often precluding leafy greens. Meena Sharma, principal, Sarvodaya Co-Ed Senior Secondary School, Rohini, pointed out, “The vendors sometimes cook bottle gourd, even cauliflower, because these seasonal vegetables cost the minimum when spinach or leafy vegetables are unavailable.” 
 
 Nutritionists point out that though the menu offers wholesome food the students, the meals need to be hot and served in adequate quantities. As per regulations, the vendor must weigh the cooked food before transporting it to the schools, and a school, on receiving it, must weigh it too. However, the practice is not followed in Delhi, where the food instead is ferried as per the student strength. 
 
 “The food needs to be served to the kids in the morning around recess time and weighing it in the kitchen and then in the school can prove time consuming,” defended a senior education department official. “Usually, the vendors know how much food each school requires because the attendance is fairly stable. And that is also how food is sent.” 
 
 However, this logic can fail. Principals have pointed out that on days that the school is scheduled to get aloo puri, a favourite with students, even twice the designated amount is not enough. 
 
 “The kids love eating aloo puri. But on days daliya is served, most of it is returned because the children don’t like eating it,” said Seema Sharma. To which nutritionist Rekha Sharma said, “Aloo puri has little nutritional value, daliya has enough.” So, the nutritionist said, it was important that children ate their food, whatever it may be, in proper portions. “The menu is not the problem,” she added. “But having a childeat just one spoon of food will not suffice even if that food is nutritious.” 
 
 Though the quality of food prepared in the NGO kitchens is normally monitored, the mid-day meal management committees of many schools sometimes send back the meals for being unpalatable. In such cases, the children are given biscuits in lieu of cooked meals. “The food is tasted by members of the mid-day meal committee and sent back if it doesn’t taste right,” said the education department official. “But it is not feasible for kitchens to prepare the meals all over again. It is in cases like this that biscuits are distributed.” 
 
 The education directorate penalises the vendor every time the food is returned, either by fining it on the basis of per-child cost or by not paying it for the food that was rejected. 
 
 Vendors say directorate officials inspect the NGO kitchens at least twice a month, and almost every day by the school teachers or principal. However, Delhi government accepts that the checks on how mid-day meals are being prepared need to be more diligent. 
 
 “We need to improve the inspections that our officers conduct in these kitchens to make sure no untoward incidents take place. We need better standard operating procedures and are working towards this,” said Marlena.
 
 
