GHAZIABAD: In a major crackdown on what police claimed was a thriving sex-trade racket, cops raided two hotels in Ghaziabad’s   and arrested 88 people, including 44 women. The racket, they claimed, was being run from these hotels. 

 All those arrested are between 25 and 45 years old. They have been booked under various sections of the Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act. 
 
 A case has also been lodged against the owners of the two hotels, who police said are are on the run.
 
 There was panic in   when a large contingent of police personnel, mostly women cops, arrived at Hotel Arya Deep and Hotel Devender and in no time sealed the entry-exit points. 
 
 The cops then conducted a room-to-room search and rounded up 88 people, including the women. “The raid started at 11 am and continued for close to two hours in Hotel Arya Deep and Hotel Devender on the direct orders of the SSP,” said Aarti Soni, incharge of women’s cell. “There have been complaints that a sex racket was being run from these hotels which was found to be correct. We first rounded up 88 people, half of them women who were brought to Kotwali police station,” said Soni. 
 
 “While 40 people were found in Hotel Arya Deep, 48 were found in Hotel Devender. When questioned, they failed to come up with a satisfactory reply on their stay. They were first detained and later arrested,” said Soni.
 
 “We have filed an FIR against 90 people, including Ravinder Yadav and Sachin, the owners of the two hotels. While the 88 people who were rounded up have been arrested, the two owners are still at large,” said Parshuram, SHO, Kotwali police station.
 
 Speaking to TOI, SSP Deepak Kumar said cops in Kotwal, the nearest police station, were not involved in the raid. Later, IP Singh, circle officer of the area, was shifted for dereliction of duty while chowki incharge of Bajaria, Rakesh Pundir, was suspended.
 
 “I had received complaints that a full-fledged prostitution racket was being run from these hotels and even the local policemen were said to be in the know of things,” said Kumar. “So on Sunday, to verify the complaint, I sent one of my officers in plain clothes, following which a special team was constituted which raided the hotels on Monday morning,” he added. 
 
 He said the role of local policemen would be probed. “Since the racket was being run right under the nose of the local police, there were allegations which suggested their complicity. So circle officer I P Singh has been removed while chowki in charge Rakesh Pundir suspended,” said Kumar.
 
 
