CHENNAI: Take a walk in Chennai around midnight on New Year's Eve and you'll be witness to a bizarre phenomenon that, despite being more of a cult-like, mass death wish, passes off as celebrations for the season.

 Seven people died and 120 were injured on the roads on Saturday night as the city police looked on, unable or unwilling to stop high jinks on motorcycles, fuelled mostly by cheap liquor and Dutch courage. The revellers, as is their wont, did not care that they put not only themselves but also bystanders in danger.
 
 Police officers said seven people died in road accidents across the state -four in the city and three in the districts -and 120 people were injured. Deaths on New Year's Eve have become so commonplace (four deaths and 900 injured on the same day the previous year) that police say there's not much they can do about them except to issue cautions and fine a few people for riding or driving under the influence.
 
 “We don't want to spoil   by penalising people,“ a senior police officer said.
 
 So, as the city looked on, in a hit-and-run case near ICF, a pedestrian identified as Moorthy , 55, was knocked down by an unidentified vehicle as he was crossing the road. Passersby rushed Moorthy to hospital where he was declared brought dead.
 
 In Villivakkam, an uni dentified man in his 50s was knocked down by a vehicle while he was crossing the road. Muthukumar, 19, an AC mechanic from Thanjavur, died in a road accident. A resident of Velachery , he was riding on a two-wheeler on the Usman Road flyover when he collided head-on with a minitruck and died on the spot.
 
 In Basin Bridge,  , 19, was riding a motorcycle when he lost control and fell. He too died on the spot. In Mahabalipuram, three men riding a bike hit a minilorry . Two died on the spot while the third is battling for life in hospital. Police said Naveen Kumar, 25, Sadasivam, 25, and Amal Raj, 26, were riding near Kanambur village when Naveen lost control and rammed a minilorry .
 
 Venkatesh, 18, of  , drowned when he ventured into the sea off Kovalam.
 
