HYDERABAD: There is only one comet discovered by and named after an Indian. The comet, Bappu-Bok-Newkirk (C/1949 N1), was discovered on July 2, 1949. And its discovery is an interesting astronomical tale interwoven closely with Osmania University and  . The comet can be best described as "Indian comet". 

 As Osmania University celebrates its 100th birth centenary on April 26, many are talking about the prestigious Nizamia Observatory attached to the university and its neglect over the years. It is a widely known fact that the observatory, which played a key role in mapping planets and thousands of stars, has fallen on bad days. That it exchanged its astrophysical data with international space research bodies is an open secret.
 
 But what many Hyderabadis do not know is that the observatory had played a 'supporting' but vital role in the discovery of the comet, Bappu-Bok-Newkirk. The comet visits the Earth once in 60,000 years. The next visit of celestial guest will be, hold your breath, in the year 61947 CE. It was discovered during its last visit in 1949. Incidentally, Bappu-Bok-Newkirk has visited the Earth only four times since the advent of modern man, Homo sapiens, about 2,00,000 years ago.
 
 The comet discoverer, Dr Manali Kallat   (1927-82), was associated with Hyderabad and Nizamia Observatory. He had his education - from primary (Islamic school) to post-graduation (Nizam College) - in the city. His father   worked with Nizamia Observatory and little Vainu used to accompany him to the observatory, and thus developed an interest in astrophysics and astronomy.
 
 After obtaining his post-graduation from Nizam College, he went to   where he discovered the comet. Incidentally, it was eminent American astrophysicist Prof Harlow Shapley, who took Vainu Bappu to Harvard. Prof Harlow, who was famous for his accurate estimation of the size of the Milky Way, was in Hyderabad. He was so impressed by the knowledge of Vainu Bappu that he secured a seat for the Indian scientist in Harvard University. 
 
 Dr Bappu had also discovered what is now famous as the Wilson-Bappu Effect. It is used for accurate measurement of the distance of the stars.
 
 Though Vainu Bappu studied in Nizam College, many believe that he was an alumnus of the University of Madras. This is because Nizam College was affiliated to the   till 1947, when it was brought under the control of Osmania University. The credit for the comet discovery also goes to the Hyderabad state as it gave him the scholarship to pursue research in Harvard. But the government was not happy with the discovery of the comet as Vainu had "deviated" from research project for which he had obtained the scholarship.
 
