MADURAI: The 'Q' branch of the   on Sunday arrested a lawyer, appearing for suspected Maoists, following an early morning search at his house in   in Alangulam here. They also seized a laptop and two mobile phones from the house after the six-hour long raid.

 The lawyer was identified as Murugan, 35. "He is running a legal aid centre called 'Kudiyirimai Padhugappu Naduvam'. The 'Q' branch sleuths also questioned his senior Selvaraj from Goripalayam. A brief search was also conducted at his office. 
 
 Murugan was later produced before the judicial magistrate court in Karur. While the exact charges against the lawyer is not clear, the arrest could have been made in connection with helping two women Maoists, who were arrested in July 2016 from Chennai," a police officer said.
 
 Police had arrested suspected Maoists - Velmurugan, Muthamizh Selvan and Palanivel - in June, 2007, from   near Periyakumar in Theni forest range for conducting arms training. Police sources said that Velmurugan is Murugan's younger brother. Again in December 2007, a special task force had arrested five people after a 45-minute long gun battle in Varusanadu hills. The shooting left three of the suspects and a few police personnel injured. Murugan is the lawyer of the accused in both the cases in Periyakulam court. 
 
 Meanwhile, Murugan's wife Alagudevi, who is also a lawyer, told TOI that a group of people identifying themselves as the 'Q' branch police entered their house at 5.30am. "They took away laptops and two mobile phones and a few documents pertaining to cases he has undertaken for suspected Maoists at Periyakulam court," she said.
 
 When he was taken out of the house, Murugan told reporters that the police are arresting him as they want to stop him from appearing in the cases. 
 
 Murugan's junior S Raja echoed his senior's claim. "The police does not want him to appear in the cases at Periyakulam court. They have been trying their best to scuttle the cases as both the cases have reached a crucial stage," he said.
 
