ALMORA: As  ,   has worsened in the whole of   in Uttarakhand, with all hill districts facing extreme  . In some localities of Champawat as well as in Kapkote in Bageshwar district, there has been no supply of water for the past seven days. The urban areas of Almora are receiving only 8 MLD (million litres per day) of water against the requirement of 14 MLD. In urban areas in Champawat, 0.5 MLD of water is being supplied against the requirement of 1.38 MLD of water. In Bageshwar, at least 24 hamlets and 10 urban localities are grappling with water shortage while in Pithoragarh, 60% of the urban areas do not have sufficient water supply.
 
  In the hills, thousands of women are being forced to travel three to five kilometres to fetch water for chores and cattle. Deepa Devi of Ghurdoura village in Someshwar of Almora district has been waking up at 3 am to reach the nearest hand pump. “If I get up late in the morning, I will have to stand in queue for hours just to fill a few buckets,” Deepa said.
  
  “The rising temperatures have dried up natural springs and nullahs,” she added.
  
  The authorities are taking strict measures to tackle the water crisis. Prakash Pant, state minister of potable water, told TOI, “We have set up water control rooms across the state. Phone numbers of these control rooms and nodal officers will be published in newspapers. Anyone facing water crisis in urban or rural areas can register a complaint on these numbers. These complaints will be followed up to address the issue. We are hiring private tankers as well. Officers of jal nigam and jal sansthan in all districts will not get leave for the next three months.”
  
  Nainital district administration has also banned all private and commercial construction till June 30 to address water shortage. According to the ministry of drinking water and sanitation, over 4,000 rural hamlets, 70 urban areas and 450 localities across the state are facing acute water shortage.
  
  The water crisis has led residents in many districts to protest outside offices of district administration and jal sansthan last week. Pithoragarh town is receiving 6.5 MLD of water against the requirement of 10.8 MLD. One lakh residents of the town and those in 15 nearby villages are dependent on the Ghat pumping scheme for water supply. Under the scheme, water is supplied to these areas from Panar river in Ghat, 30 km from the town.
  
  Jauljibi, Thal and Dharchula in Pithoragarh have seen temperatures cross 30 degrees Celsius last week. Average temperature in March hovers around 25 degrees Celsius in the hilly districts.
  
  Vishal Kumar, executive engineer, Pithoragarh, told TOI, “Pipelines are being laid in Awnla and the project will be completed by August 2017. It will supply 12 MLD of water to Pithoragarh. In the first year, it will provide 6 MLD of water.”
  
  Kumar added that to counter water woes, five tankers of 3,000 litres each are supplying water to the town.
