BHOPAL: Used syringes, needles and broken bottles of synophin lie scattered in a ramshackle PWD building at   that has turned into a den for drug addicts during night hours.

 At least 5 to 10 people may be spotted there every night, as they inject themselves with brown sugar.   (MPSACS) provides them syringes for prevention of AIDS. However, the authorities don’t have adequate infrastructure and staff to facilitate de-addiction and rehabilitation of these injectable drug users. Pleading anonymity, an individual working with MPSACS said though the addicts get a sense of safety while using the syringes, the MPSACS hasn’t been able to do much to bring them out of the scourge of drug addiction. MPSACS distributes syringes among the users as they generally use the same syringe for multiple users, which many a times leads to AIDS. 
 
 Another source working with MPCAS said, “There is no arrangement with MPSACS if anyone wants to get rid of drug addiction. There is no proper infrastructure for treating them under opiod substitution therapy (OST).” As per the rules issued by  , a doctor, a counsellor, an auxiliary nurse and a data entry operator are required to conduct OST on addicts. However, there is only one OST centre in Bhopal, which is located outside the premises of Hamidia Hospital and is facing shortage of doctors and other staff.
 
 An official in MPSAC, on the condition of anonymity, said, “Yes, there is only one OST centre in Bhopal and that too is facing shortage of staff. We are distributing syringes to prevent AIDS, but that is not enough. We need to work on the rehabilitation of addicts, which can be only possible with proper infrastructure and staff.” In Bhopal there are 1,500 injectable drug users. Most of these are from migrant population who work as labourers and live in slums. These drug users generally consume brown sugar after mixing with liquid medicines such as lupeciss (used by pregnant women), fortwin (given to buffaloes to increase milk production) and avil.
 
 A drug addict revealed that they generally get brown sugar from the areas such as Bharat Talkies, Chola, Arif Nagar, Kazi camp and Satnami Nagar. “We boil brown sugar with avil and then inject it. Nowadays we are also getting syringes from the government, which is safe for using drugs.” The user informed that one shot of brown sugar costs them Rs 150. An official from an NGO working with MPSACS said these addicts get medicines used for mixing brown sugar from medical stores at triple the price, as one cannot buy these medicines without prescription.
 
 
