NEW DELHI: Four years after  , a   subsidiary, walked out of a concessionaire agreement with the   (DMRC) regarding the Airport Express Line, an arbitration tribunal has awarded it Rs 2,782.33 crore with an interest of 13.5% a year as termination payment by the DMRC. 

  The Metro will have to also pay DAMEPL operating expenses, taking the total amount to nearly Rs 5,000 crore. The DMRC is likely to challenge the order, sources said.
 
 The award was granted on the basis of termination provisions of the concessionaire agreement, said sources close to the development. In effect, the arbitration tribunal held the termination by DAMEPL as valid.
 
 The amount awarded is significant, admit government officials. Besides the termination payment and the interest, to be calculated from August 7, 2013 to date, an amount of Rs 147.52 crore will also need to be paid to DAMEPL with an interest rate of 11% per annum. The total amount that   Rail Corporation's (DMRC) will have to pay, according to the arbitration tribunal, is between Rs 4,800-4,900 crore, said sources.
 
 Sources associated with the case said that the compensation covers damage as a result of DMRC's breach of obligations under the agreement and material adverse effect on the ability of DAMEPL to perform its obligations under the concession pact. DAMEPL sources said that the award comes as a vindication of its stand on the issue of closure of the line. "We were happy to run the line. But the civil structure was defective and posed a risk to people and property. In such a situation, it was better to walk out of the agreement," said the source.
 
 Delhi Metro preferred not to comment other than issuing a short statement on the arbitration order. "We are studying the award given by the arbitrators in the Airport Express line case and will decide our further course of action in the matter after due deliberation," said Anuj Dayal, spokesman, DMRC. Sources said that the timeline for paying the award by Delhi Metro was "immediately".
 
 Under guidelines approved by the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA) issued last year, PSUs are expected to pay 75 percent of the award amount against bank guarantee even if they propose to challenge the arbitral award.
 
 The Airport Express line project was the first public private partnership (PPP) project undertaken in the country.
 
 The project was dogged by controversy from the beginning, with deadlines being missed. Then Delhi Metro head, Dr E Sreedharan, had to step in and ensure that the work got finished in time for a launch in February 2011.
 
