Vadodara/ Anand: A local court in Anand on Monday rejected the remand plea of Anand police which had sought remand of eight accused who were arrested by the police in connection to the murder of 21-year-old dalit youth from Bhadraniya village of Borsad taluka for whom merely watching garba had proved fatal early on Sunday morning. 

 The victim - Jayesh Bhailalbhai Solanki, a resident of Vankar Vaas locality – was brutally beaten to death allegedly by a group of upper caste community when he along with his cousin and three others had gone to watch garba near Someshwar Mahadev temple on the occasion of Dussehra.
 
 The cops who had arrested the accused on Sunday night had produced the eight accused before the court seeking remand of eight days for further interrogation.
 
 “The court has rejected our plea for remand of the accused. We have decided to go for a revision plea,” said J N Desai, deputy superintendent of police, who is investigating the case. 
 
 Police sources suggest that one of the eight accused who had thrashed the dalit youth after abusing and hurling casteist insults is a juvenile. Gujarat government on the other hand has decided to give Rs 8.25 lakh as compensation to the family of the victim. 
 
 “The total compensation amounts to Rs 8.25 lakh of which the first payment of 50% that is Rs 4.12 lakh, will be handed over to the family on Tuesday morning,” said Anand district collector Dhaval Patel. Based on the request made by the family of the youth, videography of the post mortem of the deceased was also done at Karamsad-based Shree Krishna Hospital on Monday. 
 
 “The post mortem report states that primary cause of death is intracranial haemorrhage due to blunt trauma (head injury),” Anand district superintendent of police Saurabh Singh said. 
 
 “The family has been provided round the clock police protection and we have kept enough bandobast at the village to ensure that there is no law and order problem,” said Singh.
 
 Based on complaint filed by Prakash, cousin of the victim, the cops had arrested Sanjay Patel, his brother Jignesh, Chintan Patel, Dhaval Patel, Rutvij Patel, Ripen Patel and Dipesh Patel and a juvenile after booking them for murder and under sections of Prevention of Atrocities against Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribes Act.
 
 
