LUDHIANA:   of   &  , concluded with message to develop livestock farming as an impressive and effective option of diversification. Mela attracted a huge gathering with a thought to develop livestock professions on modern terms in an  .

 Dr A S Nanda, vice-chancellor, Gadvasu, said, “To develop livestock professions, University is extending its services, support, know how & training to every economic category. Besides delivering services to   it is also disseminating all the techniques to medium and lower category of livestock community to provide equal opportunities to farmers. It helps them to earn benefits with their limited resources.”
 
 Dr Harish Kumar Verma, director of extension education, said some of our departments are providing services for rearing livestock where as others are in the field of value addition of livestock products. These professions help them to earn a handsome income. Women can do these professions comfortably with their household responsibilities. He revealed that ornamentals fish, aquarium making, flavoured milk & lassi, cheese, meat pickle, meat kofta, meat patties, meat balls and a number of fish delicacies come in these professions. He said young entrepreneur can earn good returns in goat pig farming. In this mela college of dairy science and technology displayed about 32 value added products of milk.
 
 The department of livestock products and technology displayed 36 value added products of different types of meat and eggs.
 
 College of fisheries displayed 10 value added products of fish meat. There was great response to these stalls. Farmers were highly enthusiastic to be trained for the development of milk and meat products and the departments have assured to provide them literature and training on their requirement.
 
 Meanwhile, PAU Kisan Mela also concluded on Saturday. Farmers from Punjab and neighbouring states thronged the two-day kisan mela. The mela served as a knowledgeable platform for the visiting farmers, who were also seen standing in long queues for the purchase of quality and improved seeds. On a whole, the mela was a big success.
 
 Dr Baldev Singh Dhillon, vice-chancellor, PAU, urged the farmers to adopt varietal diversification, sow quality seed, get soil tested, use pesticides and fertilizers in right amount and at right time, keep farm records, focus on profit not yield, and manage paddy straw by adopting PAU recommended technologies.
 
