NEW DELHI: The   on Monday virtually purged India's cricket administration, declaring   chief   “unfit“ to head the body for resisting reforms and deciding to appoint a committee to oversee the Board's functions. Though not sacked, Thakur was rendered powerless for his defiance of court orders to implement reforms suggested by the Lodha committee and inched towards acting on its “apologize or go to jail“ threat by initiating   proceedings against the BJP leader.

 The court ordered an overhaul of BCCI by deciding to appoint a committee of administrators to carry out its functions and requested senior advocates Fali S Nariman, amicus curiae Gopal Subramaniam, BCCI and petitioners including Cricket Association of Bihar, “to suggest names of persons with integrity and experience in managing a similar enterprise“ who would take over BCCI's management.
 
 During the interim period, that is ousting of Thakur and taking over of management by administrator, BCCI's affairs would be carried out by the senior-most vice-president of the board, the court ordered. All state boards and office bearers who are in violation of SC orders will be removed as the court asserted that “the turf of the cricket field is not a personal turf or fiefdom“. Qualified office bearers must give an undertaking that they will implement reforms. A bench of Chief Justice TS Thakur and Justices AM Khanwilkar and DY Chandrachud held that Anurag Thakur has “rendered himself unfit“ to continue as BCCI chief by his conduct and actions. It passed a “cease and desist“ order against Thakur and BCCI secretary  , ousting them from the affairs of the management and functioning of the world's richest cricket body .
 
 The bench initiated criminal contempt proceedings as well as perjury (lying to court on oath) against Thakur for misleading the court and obstructing implementation of its order. The court said Thakur was prima facie guilty of misleading the court by making false statements and obstructing implementation of its July 18 judgment.
 
 In the July judgment, the court had ordered implementation of all recommendations of Justice RM Lodha committee, including ban on ministers and bureaucrats from becoming members of the governing body of the board and setting an age limit of 70 years for office-bearers. It had also disqualified a member of BCCI or state association if he held posts in any other sports administration body . The court had also enforced `one-state-one-vote' rule.
 
 Riled by the continuous dilly-dallying by BCCI and its office bearers on implementation of the reforms directed by the SC, the bench said: “Thakur's own version is that he has been rendered totally incapable and without any authority to compel the members to comply with the orders of this court. This is indicative of his having washed his hands of a duty and obligation to ensure compliance.“
 
 “Anurag Thakur, president of BCCI and Ajay Shirke, secretary , BCCI shall forthwith cease and desist from being associated with the working of BCCI. A notice to show cause shall issue to Anurag Thakur to explain why he should not be proceeded against under the provisions of Section 195 read with Section 340 of criminal procedure code (perjury). A notice to show cause shall issue to Thakur to explain why he should not be proceeded with under the contempt of courts,“ it said. The court posted further hearing in the matter for January 19.
 
 The writing was on the wall for the BCCI chief on Dec 15 when the apex court minced no words in castigating him. The bench had asked Thakur's counsel Kapil Sibal to ask his client to “either apologise or be ready to face criminal proceedings“. Standing in defiance, Thakur chose not to apologize, leaving the SC with no option but to initiate contempt proceedings.
 
 The court said BCCI and Thakur had tried to evade compliance with its order on cricket reform by seeking a letter from ICC chief Shashanak Manohar to oppose its order to appoint a CAG nominee on the Board to keep an eye on BCCI's financial transactions.
 
 “The conduct of the President of BCCI in seeking a letter from the President of ICC in August 2016, after the final judgement and order of this court, is nothing but an attempt on the part of the head of BCCI to evade complying, with the order of this court,“ the bench said. “We are constrained to note that there was absolutely no occasion for the President of BCCI to solicit any such clarification from the Chairperson of ICC in the teeth of the judgement that was delivered by this court.“
 
