BHOPAL: Daily commuters and visitors to the city faced great were stranded at the railway stations and bus stands on Wednesday as the autorickshaws remained off roads. Fearing violence and damage to their vehicles most of the app-based taxi services too did not ply.

 Around 15,000 autorickshaws are on an indefinite strike in the state capital in protest against the hike in fitness fee by RTO and operation of IT enabled cabs, which they allege are running without proper permits. The auto drivers went on indefinite strike from midnight on Tuesday and tension is building between the striking auto drivers and IT-enabled cab drivers.
 
 At the railway station and ISBT the auto drivers did not allow cabs to enter the premises forcing the cabs not to venture near these areas. Tension was palpable across the city, as many citizens were left in lurch in the absence of proper cabs services in many areas.
 
 Station house officer of Piplani police station MS Chauhan told TOI, "Police force is keeping a vigil on specific locations to prevent any clashes between cab and autorickshaw drivers." He added that some of the areas that are under the watch are New Market, TT Nagar, railway stations, ISBT, and petrol pump at Piplani.
 
 Two incidents of the agitated auto drivers beating up a cab driver were reported from Lalghati and ISBT. A cab driver Rahul Singh, said, “I did not go on duty on Wednesday, fearing assault by auto drivers.” However, no police complaint or FIR was registered in this regard.
 
 At Habibganj and Bhopal railway station, passengers were seen walking outside to the roads carrying their baggage to hire a cab for their respective destinations.
 
 Nityanand Kumar, a businessman from Delhi said, “This is absurd. They are protesting that’s absolutely fine, but cabs should have been allowed inside. What are the authorities doing?”
 
 Parminder Singh, a private sector employee said, “I came to Bhopal for an official meeting. Shatabdi was already late by three hours, and then I had to suffer due to   as no cab was ready to come to the station.”
 
 At about 10am, auto drivers gathered at some selected points and shouted slogans against the state government, RTO and state transport department.
 
 “I tried booking the taxi several times but there were no cabs. Somehow, I reached MP Nagar, and tried to book a taxi for BHEL but yet no cabs were available and if they were there, they were charging premium,” said Akash Sinha, a bank employee from Bhopal.
 
 “I paid Rs 150 in place of Rs 72 to reach my home from MP Nagar to Professor’s Colony,” said Malika Singh, a student.
 
 However, as confusion prevailed some of the government vehicles bearing ‘yellow plates’ too had to face the wrath of the auto drivers.
 
 By evening there were rumours that strike has been called off, but auto unions said it was not true and decided to continue with the strike. “No one will be allowed till government rolls back its decision of increasing fitness fee and bans IT enabled cabs plying illegally”, said president Sajid Khan, president of Bhopal railway station auto union.
 
 He added, “We met RTO Bhopal Sunil Rai Saxena. He gave an assurance to help us but said he needs three months’ time. We are not ready for that and strike will continue for sure and next round of protest will be with family.”
 
 “Our earnings has already gone down. From whatever we earn, we are unable to make out a livelihood and raise our family,” Sheikh Latif, president, Auto rickshaw driver welfare society.
 
 “We are also planning to include mini bus owners to join our protest. We will not step back until all our demands are met,” said Zahoor Khan, spokesperson, Mahanagar auto chalak sangh.
 
 Shailendra Shrivastava, transport commissioner told TOI, “We held a meeting with auto drivers today and told them that fitness permit issue has already been resolved. Moreover, as they have issues with cabs, so we have sent the scheme for rate regularization to government, which will be decided soon.”
 
 Free service to senior citizen and differently abled
 
 Even as the strike by the auto drivers continued, they decided to give the free services to senior citizens and differently-abled. At Bhopal station there were four special cases reported, where autos gave free service in two cases till Narmada hospital and Kasturba hospital. Two cabs were also allowed to take the patients. Many senior citizens and differently abled were also transferred for free from Habibganj station too.
 
 
 
 
 
 - Ramesh Kumar, Businessman
 
 
 
 - Rohit Kumar, Private Job
 
 
 
 
 - Kulwinder Singh, Private Job
 
 
