SALEM: District revenue officer (DRO) Dr R Sukumar, a veterinarian, has been visiting villages in   district for the past two days to provide assistance to villagers whose cattle have been dying by the hundreds of starvation.

 TOI has been publishing a series of reports since May 4 highlighting the plight of drought-affected villagers in Salem and   districts who were forced to abandon their emaciated cows and bulls on the fringes of the forest bordering   to die. The reports were accompanied by photographs of skeletons and rotting carcasses scattered across the region.
 
 Following the reports, Salem collector   personally inspected some villages on Friday evening.The administration is now taking steps on a war footing to address the concerns of the villagers and save their remaining cattle.
 
 On Sunday and Monday, Dr Sukumar made inquiries with the villagers who lost their cows due to starvation and drought.
 
 “I have clearly ordered the animal husbandry department officials to monitor the situation in the villages,“ Dr Sukumar told TOI. He ordered the officials to ensure that not even a single cow or bull died due to starvation and drought.
 
 The DRO visited Govindapadi, Chettipatti, Pannavadi and Kolathur union and advised the villagers to deworm their cattle. “We can thus save the cows and bulls by giving medicines and supplements,“ he said.
 
 The district administration has opened a fodder depot at Kolathur union. The DRO said fodder will be sold for Rs 2 a kg against the market price of Rs15. He said the fodder will be purchased for Rs 9 a kg by the government. “The difference in rates will be borne by the state government,“ he said.
 
 The DRO also ordered the officials to provide water for the cattle across the district. “We plan to in stall cement tanks in the villages and open spaces adjoining the forest,“ he said, adding that the district administration will soon set up sheds on vacant land to save cows and bulls which are abandoned or are straying into the forest.
 
