NAGPUR: When Nagpur bench of   was opened on Monday, it was not usual hustle-bustle like normal weekdays. Thanks to the summer  , the entire edifice wore a   look with less than 100   present in the first session before lunch. Usually, about 800-900 of them are seen daily. Even the attendance of litigants was thin. 

 In all these years, even this number was rare as only vacation court used to work for hearing urgent matters, usually presided over the single-judge bench.
 
 On account of call given by Chief Justice of India (CJI) JS Khehar, the registry assigned three judges each week during month-long vacations period, who will work from Monday to Friday in batches. 
 
 On first day, a division bench comprising justice Bhushan Gavai and justice Nitin Sambre heard final hearing cases in first session from Courtroom A. Both judges later sat in the single-judge benches in second session. A single-judge bench of justice Indira Jain operated from Courtroom ‘CC’. 
 
 Sadly, few lawyers were present, as majority of them are of vacations. Sources from the court told TOI that many lawyers disagreed with the concept mooted by CJI to conduct final hearing matters during vacations. They preferred to skip the hearings for entire one-month and even informed the registry that they would be out for vacations and therefore, their cases shouldn’t be listed in this period.
 
 Refuting the charges, Nagpur   Bar Association (HCBA) president Anil Kilor said, all of them had agreed to cooperate with the judges and registry during vacations. “It’s a common understanding and we all be working after adjusting our vacations. It’s obvious that not all 1,500 lawyers would be on vacations for a month. We all would be attending hearing of our respective cases and have informed the registry accordingly. We totally endorsed CJI’s suggestions and would fully cooperate with the judges to reduce the pendency,” he said.
 
 But some litigants want the courts to function throughout the year without any break just like other government or private offices. “Every individual needs vacations to spend quality time with their families. The lawyers must go on vacations, but not all of them at same time. They must respect and cooperate with judges to hear the cases and reduce huge pendency of over three crore cases,” said Anil Wadaplliwar, who has filed various PILs on many social issues.
 
 The historic edifice popularly referred as ‘Poem in stone’ is undergoing repairs and renovation, including courtrooms, bar rooms and other facilities. Walls outside courtrooms are being whitewashed and carpentry works are being carried out in various parts of three annex buildings. Air-conditioners are being fitted in all barrooms. All courtrooms, except two where hearings were underway, were shut and three bar rooms remained largely empty in absence of lawyers.
 
 (With inputs from Mohnish Nelarwar)
 
