Surat: Surat Municipal Corporation authorities on Friday suspended deputy town planner Ashwin Tailor and filed chargesheet against another town planner Debashish Basak for tampering with documents related to a piece of government land at Chowk Bazaar in the city. 

 Official sources said municipal commissioner M Thennarasan ordered a vigilance inquiry into the government-owned land located behind Sir JJ Training College at Chowk Bazaar. Owner of Gujarat Gas Company Ltd (GGCL) CNG filling station, Kadar Wadiwala had submitted a proposal to the district collector for 195 square metre of government land on lease. The district collector forwarded the application from the CNG pump owner to SMC for its opinion. Municipal commissioner M Thennarasan sought the town planning department’s opinion whether the land can be allotted to the CNG pump owner or not? 
 
 The same application had been rejected by the earlier municipal commissioner Milind Torawane. Deputy town planner Ashwin Tailor allegedly tampered with documents and submitted a positive report on allotment of the government land to the CNG pump owner on December 13, 2016. The issue was brought to the notice of BJP’s Olpad MLA Mukesh Patel and BJP city unit president Nitin Bhajiawala. The duo approached municipal commissioner M Thennarasan and apprised him of the entire issue. 
 
 The civic chief ordered a vigilance inquiry which found that Tailor had removed the report given by Torawane and submitted a proposal for final approval of Thennarasan. 
 
 Town planner Debashish Basak was well aware of the entire episode and signed the report in favour of Kadar Wadiwala on January 7, 2017. The vigilance department managed to get the report of Torawane which had rejected the application for lease agreement. “The officers involved in the land grabbing episode will have to face serious action. The deputy town planner has been placed under suspension. Town planner Basak will be facing a vigilance inquiry and already has been sent a chargesheet ,” an SMC officer said.
 
 
