HYDERABAD: Flower festival Bathukamma has seen a sharp rise in the prices of all flowers like Jasmine, Marigold, Lily and Hibiscus. Ahead of Dasara festival on Saturday , the prices have soared so much that almost all the flowers are selling at double the normal price with that of Jasmine and Kanakambra touching the Rs 500 mark for the first time.Before this, a kilogram of Jasmine has never crossed the Rs 200 mark. Similarly, the price of Kankambra has tripled to Rs 500 per kg. Marigold flowers, which are being used extensively in Bathukamma festival, is now selling at Rs 200 to Rs 300 per kg against last week's price of Rs 80 per kg. The prices of Hibiscus and Lily too have touched Rs 400 to Rs 600 per kg, which is more than 50% higher than what they were last week.

 “There is a short supply of flowers in the city as the demand has almost tripled in the last one week.
 
 The production districts like Medak, Mahabubnagar, Nalgonda and Rangareddy are not able to meet the demand because of which we have been forced to import flowers from neighboring Karnataka, Chhattisgarh and AP ,“ said an official in the horticulture department.
 
 Another reason for the present shortage is the prevalen ce of cold weather and mist, leading to a dip in the supply of Jasmine in the market leading to the rise in prices.
 
 Telangana farmers are cultivating Jasmine in about 10,000 acres and other flowers in another 3000 acres. Though there is huge demand for flowers in the city, lack of infrastructure and transport facilities are deterring the horticulture cultivation in the state, says department officials. Lack of storage facilities at Monda Market in Secunderabad and Gudimalkapur market at Mehdipatnam, where a huge wholesale flower market operates, is dampening the flower trade.
 
 More than 300 trader who operate from these two markets have been demanding for better facilities and subsidized transport for the horticulture farmers, a demand that is yet to be met by Telangana government.
 
