CHENNAI: The decks have been cleared for the second multi-level vehicular parking facility in the city. A tender has been finalised and work orders will soon be issued for the six-storey building that will come up on Uthamar Gandhi Salai ( ).

 The project, estimated to cost Rs 10-crore, was proposed in 2014. With capacity to hold 352 vehicles, cars and two-wheelers, it is aimed at regulating   parking in the busy area.
 
 The parking lot will be constructed on corporation land, opposite Sangeetha Hotel on Nungambakkam High Road, that is presently being used as temporary compactor shed. 
 
 In 2015, when Greater Chennai Corporation and consultants, Mahindra Consulting Engineers Limited, organised a public consultation, the project received a positive response. However, urban design experts and a few commuters believe that it will not solve the congestion on the road. “The congestion is not due to lack of permitted parking space. The cause of the problem is that there is no traffic signal at the junction where Haddows Road meets Nungambakkam High Road,” said Varun Suresh, a resident of Nungambakkam. “So, there is a constant pouring in of vehicular traffic here from all directions. Vehicles from T Nagar, Nelson Manickam Road, Valluvar Kottam, Mount Road and Ethiraj Salai all of them end up at the   junction near hotel Sangeetha.”
 
 Experts say the city’s first multi-level automated parking facility which opened in 2015 at Wallace Garden off Greams Road has lessons for corporation. “Corporation cannot provide a modern multi-crore facility and then subsidise the parking fee,” said an urban planner seeking anonymity. “People will continue to park on the road, which is easier and quicker, unless they are penalised.”
 
 User charges for the Nungambakkam High Road project are yet to be finalised. “We are presently discussing the different financial models with the contractor and we are likely to adopt a public-private-partnership,” said a senior corporation official. “Work orders for construction will be issued before end of March.”
 
 One floor will house the office of zone 9 which includes parts of Teynampet, Alwarpet, Mylapore and Chepauk apart from Nungambakkam. According to the initial plan, the building was meant to double up as a commercial complex and the estimated Rs 24 crore was to be funded by Tamil Nadu Urban Infrastructure Financial Services Limited. Later, the corporation decided to draw the money from its capital works funds and brought it down to Rs 10 crore, shelving plans for the commercial complex.
 
 
