LUDHIANA: It’s an ideal present that members of the Muslim community could hope to get, ahead of the holy month of Ramzan in their village. They will no longer have to travel to nearby villages to offer ‘namaz’. Setting an example of  , the villagers of   — which has a majority of Sikhs and Hindus — have constructed a mosque in the village. The mosque was formally inaugurated by the villagers on Thursday. “Our long cherished demand has been fulfilled with the joint efforts of villagers. It’s a beautiful mosque. We will be able to pray here during the holy month, and it is an Eid gift for us,” said  , a local villager.

 Appreciating the gesture of   and the village panchayat, Muslims said the Hazrat Abu Bakar mosque indeed was an Eid gift for them. “It’s so touching, and a big gesture of brotherhood on the part of villagers, that they came forward to help us in the construction of Hazrat Abu Bakar mosque in the village. This was a long pending demand of our community members in the village. Now, we will be able to pray in the village in this mosque,” said Shahi Imaam Punjab, Maulana Habib Ur Rehman Saani Ludhianvi.
 
 The resolution for the construction of a mosque was passed way back in 1998. “The villager’s meeting had approved it with consensus. After that, about a kanal of panchayat land was also allotted for the construction. But the work could only begin on 2 May last year, following the efforts of villagers,” said village sarpanch Jagdeep Kaur. Taking pride in describing her village as an epitome of communal harmony, she says a temple was also now being constructed in the village with the joint efforts of villagers.
 
 With a population of about 1,300, the village has around 700 Sikhs, 200 Hindus, and 150 Muslims. Most of the Muslims had settled in the village after partition. The village also has a   where members of various communities go and offer their respects.
 
 Old-timers recall that the village has a history of communal harmony, and there have hardly been any instances of communal violence here. “We have helped in whatever way we could for the construction work. Now, everyone — irrespective of their religion — are doing their bit for the construction of a temple here,” said Jaswinder Kumar, another villager.
 
 Om Kumar, a trader from the village, added: “We want to tell those fighting in the name of religion that instead of dividing, they should work to unite human beings. Our village is a perfect example of how members from various communities can come together in a peaceful manner, and respect each other’s faith.”
 
