Do you know that an average woman in India uses about 10,000 sanitary pads in her lifetime? When these sanitary pads are disposed, they take around 500-800 years to biodegrade. If they are burnt, they release toxic gases unless it is done at a temperature of 800 degrees, which requires a lot of energy. This is the reason we need to give serious consideration to the menstrual products we use – not only because they are an environmental hazard but also for the physical harm they cause.

 Leading Mumbai-based gynecologist, Dr Duru Shah warns against menstrual pads. She says, “If   are not changed within 3-4 hours, they can have serious health impact. They can lead to severe rashes, fungal infections and even bad odor.” Yet it is more popular than the other two options. The reason being it is easy to use - Just stick it on your underwear and you are good to go. While the other two options require you to invade the boundaries of your vagina, literally. 
 
 So let’s see how   work? The inside wall of the vagina is moist and this secretion fights bacteria and keeps the woman safe from bacterial infections. Once inside, tampons start absorbing even the secretion on the walls and this can lead to toxic shock syndrome (TSS). Talking about TSS, Dr Charusheela Sabne, Gynaecologist, Sahyadri Hospitals explains, “TSS is an extreme rare vaginal centric disorder and is potentially fatal; it occurs if tampon is kept vaginally for a prolonged period of time. Caused by the release of poisonous substances from an overgrowth of bacteria called Staphylococcus aureus, or staph, TSS mostly occurs to menstruating women who uses tampons. TSS needs immediate medical care and the symptoms are high-fever, skin-rashes and vomiting if you have been using tampons. However, tampons are safe if used correctly and not left for too long.”
 
 Talking in favour of  , Manish Malani, Founder, MediAceso Healthcare Pvt. Ltd. MediAceso Healthcare Pvt. Ltd., explains, “Since tampons are absorbents, they do not understand what to soak and what not to soak. On the other hand, menstrual cup is a collector – it collects the discharge from cervix in the cup without disturbing the wall.” He shares that women are definitely reluctant to try anything that goes inside the body but that is changing rapidly now. “Our company is taking SheCups to different areas in the country and spreading awareness. It is a tested product and safe to use.”
 
 However, one needs to practice caution while using menstrual cups too. “Since we are inserting it vaginally and need to clean and reuse it, it is important for women to follow hygienic practice while inserting and removing it,” suggests Dr Sabne. 
 
