HYDERABAD: The   will soon open 50 petrol bunks in the state, which will be run by   and prisoners who have been freed by the end of the year. Another 50 will be opened next year. 

 V K Singh, DG Prisons, said on Thursday that the prisons department had prepared a  . This includes measures for good administration, crime reduction, economic growth, employment general and social services. "In Tihar jail,   had implemented programmes which were already there in jails in foreign countries. Telangana state has designed a road map for itself which has never been implemented earlier by any jail," he said.
 
 The DG said deaths of prisons in the state had drastically come down. While 24 prisoners died in the year 2016, it was 32 in 2015, 56 in 2014 and 53 in 2013. So far this year, three prisoners died. V K Singh said the jails had become almost corruption free and admitted that there were aberrations. "Prison life should not be retributive but elevating and transformational," the DG said. "The released prisoners should look at prisons as a church or a temple," he said, explaining that they should not be able to forget the transformation that they underwent there. 
 
 The DG pointed out that anyone proving an allegation of corruption in the department would be given a cash reward of 5,000. All jails in the state, including central jails, district jails and sub jails will turn into production centres and  . The DG said new programmes were being chalked out to change the production and marketing culture in the prisons department. 
 
 "The prisons department will open prison outlets in almost 10,500 villages where jail products will be sold," the DG said. The outlets will be operated by women and from their houses. A remuneration of 5,000 will be given to those who will operate the stores. The DG said the intention of the prisons department is to be on par with big business groups. 
 
 In addition, the plan is also to employ 2,000 people for the petrol bunks and other ventures. "Our plan is to market jail products and reach a turnover of 1,000 crore by 2015 and 2,000 crore from sale of petroleum products," the DG said. 
 
 
