LUCKNOW: As fire broke out in the second floor of   (Secretariat) at 4pm located on the busy Vidhan Sabha Marg on Tuesday evening, panic spread in the eight-storey building that accommodates more than 5,000 employees in various government departments. Fire was caused in the air handling unit of an   on the second floor and it took fire department more than an hour to douse flames. Three rooms were gutted in the fire. 

 Chief engineer in charge of the building A K Sharma told TOI that in January contract had been given to a private firm to improve the air-conditioning on the premises but there were lapses. He added, “The fire on the second floor seems to have been because of faulty work by the contractor. No safety measures were taken by him in installation of new lines and we have ordered an internal inquiry into the fire accident.” 
 
 Smoke billowed from the building and traffic on the road came to a standstill. MLAs were taking oath in Vidhan Bhawan and its officials rushed to the spot.
 
 A supervisor from the second floor of the building, Mohammed Ahsan told TOI he heard a loud bang from the room of an under-secretary of the transport department. “I saw smoke rising from the AC room and alerted the security and fire officers of the building. Soon, the building was covered with smoke and there was blackout as power was snapped.” 
 
 The building was evacuated amid commotion, said Purushottam Singh, employed in sugarcane department, adding, “We have only one staircase and after electricity was snapped nothing could be seen. There was chaos and I saw a colleague fall down while rushing to safety.” 
 
 Fire service sub-inspector Rajinder told TOI, “We broke windows and started to douse the flames when the fire service tender arrived along with assistance from private fire-service. 
 
 Lucknow chief fire officer A B Pandey said, “We received information at 4.10pm and rushed four fire tenders to contain the fire. The cause of fire was spark in AC ducts in the second floor.
 
