GURUGRAM: The district court of Gurugram on Wednesday sentenced two men to life imprisonment for throwing   on a 30-year-old married woman and her minor daughter in their Palam Vihar home in December 2014. The woman had spurned the advances of one of the men.

 Terming the crime as “gruesome”, additional district and sessions judge Vivek Singhal handed down the sentence to   (22) and   (28), and also imposed a fine of Rs one lakh each. 
 
 The court also ordered that 60% of the income of the convicts during their jail term will go to the acid   survivors. 
 
 A third accused in the case, Arif (23), has, however, been let off due to “lack of evidence”.
 
 In December 2014, Suman sustained over 30% burns when Azad entered her house in Palam Vihar posing as a plumber and thew acid on her. Her nine-year-old daughter who was there in the house at the time also sustained five per cent burns as some of the acid splashed on her.
 
  
  
 
 A few days later, Raja, Azad and Arif — all residents of Dharam Colony — were arrested by the police. Public Prosecutor Pravesh Bagri said during investigation it emerged that Raja had hatched the plot to disfigure Suman’s face as he was infuriated at her rejecting his overtures a number of times.
 
 “Raja, originally from Muzzafarpur in Bihar, had engaged Azad for the job and offered him Rs 30,000. A sum of Rs 2,000 was paid as advance and the balance was to be paid after the attack,” Bagri said. 
 
 Arif, originally from Shamli in Uttar Pradesh, had introduced Azad to Raja.
 
 Advocates, Kulbhushan Bharadwaj and Anju Rawat Negi, who helped the acid attack survivors through their NGO Farishte Group and provided free legal aid, said, “This order will be set an example and instil fear among criminal-minded people.”
 
 Negi said during the trial Raja had claimed to be a minor at the time of the crime and his family members also produced a birth certificate from Muzzafarpur Municipal Corporation, which later turned out to be fake.
 
 “We had requested the court to check the authenticity of the birth certificate. After several notices, the registrar of Muzzafarpur Municipal Corporation appeared before the court and clarified that the birth certificate was not issued by the corporation. Now, a case has been registered against Raja’s family members for producing fake document in the court,” Negi said.
 
 
