Nashik: Shortage of money has forced 57-year-old Jameelbhai Mohammed Hanif Rangrez to take a tough decision, that of selling his ‘tamrapatra’ (engraved   plates) of 700 verses of the  .

 Not only is he looking for someone to pay him the deserving price for the ‘unique’ 63 copper plates so that he can build a better future for his two sons, but the   is also expecting the buyer to construct a temple once he purchases his prized possession .
 
 Born in Erandol of Jalgaon district in 1959, Rangrez migrated to Nashik in 1987 and made the city his home.
 
 Living in a slum area now, he has already spent a fortune on engraving on the copper sheets, and the future of his sons is starting to worry him. “When I came to Nashik, I used to drive autorickshaws for a living. This helped me open up a garage and own two autorickshaws and two taxis. But my passion to   the Bhagvad Gita forced me to sell all of my belongings. I raised Rs 13.50 lakh to engrave the script on 27.300 kg copper plates. I lost all my investment,” he said.
 
 “I managed to get my daughters married. I still don’t have money to let my children do what they want to. They are forced to drive autorickshaws,” he said from his rented house in Wadala village of the city. 
 
 Nearing the age of 60 years, Rangrez’s other projects are left undone. “I had started engraving the Quran and Dhammapad on copper plates, but the rising costs and lack of funds forced me to leave the job half done. I still have a few sheets, but I have left the project,” he said. 
 
 He recently bagged a diploma in nature therapy from the New Delhi-based Akhil Bhartiya Prakratik Chikitsa Parishad. That’s not all, Rangrez also has immense knowledge in ayurvedic and unani medicines.
 
 Earning a hefty income is not the only agenda for Rangrez. “I am looking for a buyer from the country. I want the ‘Tamrapatra’ to be handed over to someone who will respect it. The Tamrapat should go to someone who will ensure a fitting memorial for the same,” he said. 
 
 With the proceeds, Rangrez plans to raise a botanical garden to grow herbs for medicines. “I will be able to provide it to the people at low prices. The garden will also cut down the cost of buying herbs from others,” he said. 
 
 “As against the government spending Rs 2,500 crore for memorials, a memorial of the Bhagvad Gita will only inspire the younger generation.” he added.
 
 
