LUCKNOW: After a BJP MP from Jaipur highlighted anomalies at the Indian Institute of Management, Lucknow, its   has been accused of misbehaving, and harassing wife of a senior   of the premier institute. The professor’s wife Gayatri has lodged a complaint with the National Commission for Women, and UP State Women Commission, accusing the institute director of  . 

 Gayatri lodged the complaint after receiving the director’s letters and emails asking her questions about her husband’s relationship with her and immediate family members. The director, she alleged, also asked her husband to undergo “psychiatric evaluation” to have his “marital resilience” assessed to know his capacity to maintain long-term relationships with spouse and family members. 
 
 Confirming the allegations, an official from Union ministry of human resource development, on condition of anonymity, told TOI, “The matter is being examined. Comments from the institute were sought following the complaint lodged by Gayatri. We have received reply from the institute.’’ 
 
 The complainant has alleged in her letter to the women’s commission that the director, in written communication dated June 30, 2017 to Prof Mohanty—working in   for past 22 years—used objectionable language and accused her husband of domestic violence. The complainant added that the director, in continuation of his first letter, issued another, dated July 6, to her husband and to resident medical officer S P Singh, directing the former to undergo psychiatric evaluation on four parameters—organisational belonging (wherein patient is evaluated for ability to correlate with the organisation), marital resilience (capacity to maintain long-term relationships with spouse and immediate family amid ups and downs), vertical conformity (ability to relate with superiors and subordinates in organisational context), and horizontal networking (ability to bond with his peer group for betterment of organisation).
 
 Gayatri has also alleged that the language used in the second letter was offensive and in no way related to discharge of official duties of her husband and has stigmatised him. On July 14, Gayatri lodged a complaint to the director protesting against his behaviour, which caused her mental torture. A copy of the complaint was sent to secretary, department of higher education, Union ministry of human resource development, who is also chairman, Board of Governors at IIML, and all other members.
 
 According to the complainant, the director, in a letter dated July 20, acknowledged her complaints and suggested that the she should have one-on-one talk with the BOG members, for which the director’s office would even provide travel tickets to Mumbai and Delhi (where most BOG members reside). Gayatri has alleged that the director had used objectionable language—“please feel free to talk to me so that I can assuage your fears”—in this letter. Gayatri alleged that circulating letters with false statements had tarnished her reputation and disrupted her mental peace.
 
 Admitting that he had asked Prof Mohanty to undergo (psychiatric) evaluation, IIML director Prof Ajit Prasad wrote in an email to TOI, “I am considering him (Mohanty) for the post of Dean. But he has a history of erratic behaviour. He was asked ‘in confidence’ to have an evaluation done, in order to justify his appointment. There was never any intent to interfere with his family life. In fact, he is the one who brought this to public domain. This matter has been explained at length at the HRD level too.’’ 
 
 
