TERATPALLY: Making it clear that the   will take on the TRS in   in the 2019 elections, its national president   said on Monday that the Telangana government is not implementing Centre's various welfare schemes in the state. "People in   told me that they did not get individual latrines under the Swachhata Bharat Abhiyan scheme. As many as 4.5 crore individual latrines were constructed in the country under the Individual Household Latrines (IHHL) scheme, but this has not reached Teretpally yet," the BJP chief said.

 Speaking at the party booth-level committee meeting at Teretpally village in Nal gonda as part of his three-day tour in Telangana here on Monday, he urged workers to strengthen the party. BJP national president Amit Shah on Monday urged workers to strengthen the party while speaking at the party booth-level committee meeting at Teretpally village in   as part of his three-day tour in Telangana. Shah said, "The BJP state unit had been fighting the anti-people policies of the TRS government in the state.I am confident that the BJP will come into power in the coming days."
 
 Shah claimed that the country had been progressing for the past three years due to development work taken up by the NDA government. "Various schemes were introduced by the Modi government for dalits, poor, youth, women and farmers. We want that such development happens in Telangana. Therefore, I appeal to the people to join hands with Prime Minister Narendra Modi in making Telangana the No. 1 state in the country ," he said.
 
 He claimed that with over 11 crore members and government in 13 states in the country, the BJP was the world's biggest party. Shah said the party meeting has significance as all the party leaders shared the dais.“Party booth-level president (no 153), mandal president, district party president, state president and national president are sharing the dais now. The party has taken up the massive programme to go house-to-house and spread the ideology of Pandit Deendayal Upadhyaya and highlight the Modi government's achievements in the past three years. Party workers should strengthen the party by visiting each household at their respective booth level," the BJP president said.
 
 BJP state president K Laxman said the party has taken up the Deendayal Karya Vistarak Yojana programme to reach out to villages and strengthen the party.
 
