You may have been on several trails across Mumbai — a cycling trail through Aarey, a heritage walk at   and Bandra, a spice trail at Lower Parel’s masala galli or the Irani food trail in South Mumbai. But this one doesn’t require either an appetite or a love for fitness. Instead, you sign up for it with a sense of adventure and yes, some guts, too. Mumbai recently got its first two-km ‘ghost trail’ that takes folks into the labyrinth of alleys and past the quiet doorways of  . And judging by the packed audience that signed up for the themed walk, it sure looks like the city has a taste for the macabre! 

 
 
  
  
 
 The two-and-a-half hour walk, aptly called ‘Grisly Girgaon’, has all the charms of a horror movie with legends of 
 , cemeteries and even tales of a headless ghost! “This is in  . Someone was supposed to have been murdered here more than 70 years ago. Back then, the streetside illumination was poor, so people would be scared in the labyrinth of small gallis. Once you entered, it was tough to find a way out in the dark. Legend has it that this ghost called ‘Maankapya’ would roam around with outstretched arms and strangle anyone who came wandering in the dim alleys. No one knows if this was made up, but even today, the lanes here seem eerie and scary at night,” says  , who hosts the tour. 
 Having grown up here, he has a series of tales ranging from morbid to bizarre, which make for the   fare on the themed walk. But he reaffirms, “No one is going to pop up and scare you on the walk, but it’s interesting to know about the area in the right ambience, as Girgaon has a dark side to it. In earlier times, it was notorious for having a red light area and gang wars took place here, too,” he informs. 
 As you make various stops, don’t miss a stone slab that lies against a wall in Pimpalwadi. Informs Bharat, “In the olden days, curses were put on land when it was donated and this is an ass curse stone called gaddhegal.” He also talks of hierarchies of ghosts, male and female, legends of 
 (water nymphs) who resided in a well, and more. In the eerie ambience, the tales seem all the more chilling. 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 For folks who signed up for the ghost walk, there were several points that were frightening enough to seem real. Says Divesh Chawla, a resident of Kemps Corner, “After walking down a street here, we saw a placard that announced that it was a graveyard. Imagine strolling through it without realising that the ground has bodies buried under; this part still gives me goosebumps,” he grins, adding, “We also usually pass by so many trees, not realising that ghoulish incidents might be associated with them. For instance, we didn’t know that a peepal tree here is believed to house a demon. There was also a famous restaurant here whose waiter was murdered. It’s said that his spirit would not let any business prosper. Heard that the building now houses a financial establishment.” 
 Aman Mehta, 20-year-old student from Jai Hind College, recalls his jumpy moment. “We were all outside the graveyard here and were so wired up listening to the tales and suddenly, a cat leapt from a nook in the wall; we just jumped,” he laughs. 
 The creepy trail also brings out the shutterbug in you. Jatin Lodaya, a resident of Chembur, says, “I found the shadows bouncing of the walls in the dark, it was mesmerising. Most of the buildings and the wadis have so much old-world charm. Girgaon is a beautiful slice of Mumbai. Yes, the ghosts may not pop of the woodwork and are just tales, but they make the place all the more endearing.” 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 Trapped European soldier - Kelewadi
 The chawl of ghosts - Mugbhat
 The dead waiter who won’t allow the business to prosper - JSS Road 
 Early morning bath of the water nymphs - Near Khotachiwadi 
 A ghost who protects you from ghosts - Mugbhat
 Haunted horse stables - JSS Road
 The ghost who tickles - Kandewadi
 Story of the ass curse - Pimpalwadi
 The legendary headless Maankapya - Khotachiwadi
 
 
 Urban Safari: Fort precinct
 Sunset trail: Horniman Circle and Gateway of India
 Bollywood tour: Film City
 Cycling trail: Aarey and Vandri Lake
 Working man’s food trail: Mumbai Fort
 Dadar Parsi trail: Discovering Parsi food 
 
 
