BHARUCH: Three days after major fire broke out at a chemical plant, the situation was brought under control at Sterling Auxiliaries Pvt Ltd on Wednesday in Dahej, Bharuch on Thursday. People from nearby Ambhetha village that was evacuated after the fire, have started returning on Thursday.

 However, as thick fumes were still seen coming out from the storage vessels, as a precautionary measures, people of surrounding villages including Ambhetha were advised to be alert. “After final site clearance people were allowed to return to the village Wednesday late evening,” said Amit Yadav, sub-divisional magistrate, Bharuch.
 
 “The situation is now under control, however, chemicals may anytime react hence we are very alert. Massive cooling activities are going on in a plant,” added Yadav.
 
 Sanjay Chavda, sarpanch of Ambhetha village said, “People have started coming back from Wednesday evening, but they are still under fear. In last one year, several such incidents in Dahej have become a major cause for concern. Administration and company management should adopt strict safety practices in their plant for the sake of safety of people working inside and residing near of these plants.”
 
 A S Gandhi, deputy director,   said, “Major portion of the plant is burnt to ashes. The chemicals which were stored are identified as alcohol, phenol, di-methyl amine, mono methyl amine, ammonia, ethylene oxide and few more.”
 
 “We have started detail investigation and are going to lodge criminal complaint against company in few days after investigation. The tanks of ethylene oxide and ammonia are now safe. These inflammable material will be transferred to some other safe place,” Gandhi added.
 
 Subhash Chandratre, unit head at Sterling Auxiliaries Pvt Ltd told TOI, “The fire took place while packing of finished organic chemical material N – Methylmorpholine in drums. Company’s several plants of ethylene oxide condensate, glycol ether are completely gutted in fire. Some of the plants of antioxidants and cosmetic integration have partially survived. Evacuation of people from Ambhetha village and mobilisation of resources in time from different part of state has helped in controlling the situation.” He, however, said that they were yet to estimation loss caused by the fire. There was no causality because of the accident.
 
 
