Nagpur: A man has knocked the judiciary’s doors for CID or CBI enquiry into the alleged rape of his minor daughter after they were made to sit for over five hours past midnight at police stations.

 A division bench comprising justices Prasanna Varale and Murlidhar Giratkar issued notices to the respondents, including state home secretary, Wardha superintendent of police, and police stations at Talegaon and Ashti in Wardha.
 
 The petitioner, a farmer and father of a 16-year-old survivor, contended that the cops at both the stations made them wait overnight for several hours before the FIR was filed at Ashti. Moreover, she was repeatedly made to narrate entire incident in front of a male officer. They were also not informed that her statement could be recorded at her residence.
 
 Through counsel Rajnish Vyas, the petitioner pointed out that the constables at both the stations were also insensitive in interviewing the victim. He charged them of flouting various provisions of the Prevention of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012.
 
 The incident took place on May 22 when the girl was at her elder sister’s home. Accused Prashant Kale asked her to accompany him. Upon her refusal, he told her that her father had fallen ill and they had to attend to him immediately. He allegedly took her to a nearby forest and forced himself on her. He also recorded the heinous act on his mobile phone.
 
 The frightened girl hesitated to inform her sister until next morning when she experienced backache and pain in her private parts. When she narrated the incident, the siblings rushed to the father’s home in a nearby village.
 
 The father took her to Talegaon police station at 9.30pm on May 23, but they were compelled to wait till 2.30am next day. Constables said the FIR can’t be registered as the officer in-charge was not present. They were told to go to Ashti police station. They then reached Ashti by almost 4am, where they were again asked to wait because the police inspector was not present.
 
 Later, she was made to narrate the entire incident again.
 
 The petitioner alleged that the police have been acting in favour of the accused and have not arrested him till now. He had also threatened the victim and her family with dire consequences.
 
 
