MUMBAI: Even as the   (ACB) has initiated criminal proceedings against former deputy CM   for his alleged involvement in the Maharashtra Sadan scam, information obtained by one of the accused, architect Prasanna Chamankar, under the RTI Act reveals a 2013 probe report by the same agency had stated there was no abuse of position by the NCP leader.

 The ACB had, on June 11, 2015 filed an FIR against Bhujbal, his son Pankaj, nephew Sameer, developers K S Chamankar, P P Chamankar and Prasanna Chamankar and bureaucrats of the public works department. ACB's contention was that the state exchequer had suffered a loss of Rs 749 crore owing to abuse of power by Bhujbal in connivance with  , bureaucrats and PWD engineers.
 
 BJP's   had on July 18, 2012 lodged a complaint with ACB, saying Bhujbal has abused his position as cabinet member, set up benami companies and earned huge money in the Sadan's construction. ACB had then probed Somaiya's charges and submitted a report to the then additional chief secretary (home) Amitabh Rajan on December 11, 2013.
 
 Prasanna Chamankar, under the RTI Act, secured a copy of that report submitted by then DG (ACB) Praveen Dixit.Dixit had then submitted that ACB did probe Somaiya's allegations, but for an in-depth probe, permission for an open inquiry was necessary (an open inquiry is different from a discreet probe in that the accused can be called for questioning ).
 
 On the charge that Bhujbal had misused his position while granting the contract and invested huge funds in benami firms, the report stated that the ACB had found that quite a large number of companies did not exist. But so far as allotment of work for construction of the Sadan was concerned, ACB submitted that the cabinet sub-committee on infrastructure had unanimously granted the contract to Chamankar Developers and that there was no abuse of power.
 
 On the charge that cost of construction was increased from Rs 52 crore to Rs 152 crore, ACB observed there was no substance in this as cost had never been fixed and added there was no need for a further probe into the charge.
 
 On the allegation that Chamankar Developers would garner a profit of Rs 9,700 crore as it was given additional FSI of 30 lakh sq ft for sale, ACB submitted that prima facie there was no substance in this and there was no need for a further probe into the charges. Further, it had been alleged that an amount of Rs 13.50 crore was deposited in Nish Infrastructure, a firm associated with the Bhujbals. The ACB admitted the amount was deposited in the firm's account, but the firm was not associated with the Sadan's construction.Even on the sudden increase in cost of shares of Parvez Constructions, linked to the Bhujbals, the ACB stated that it was not associated with the Sadan. Chamankar said he is planning to submit the documents procured by him before court.
 
 Congress's Prithviraj Chavan was CM when the 2013 ACB probe report was submitted.When Devendra Fadnavis took over as CM, he on December 14, 2014, granted permission for an open inquiry . A petition was also filed in the HC. Bhujbal landed in jail and has been in Arthur Road jail for almost a year.
 
