BENGALURU: You may feel choked on Bengaluru roads, thanks to smoke-spewing vehicles and dust. But some monitoring stations of the   have recorded a decrease in the level of air pollutants.

 KSPCB's 16 monitoring centres are spread over dif centres are spread over different zones such as industrial, mixed (residential, rural and others) and sensitive (hospitals, schools etc).Though the level of particulate matter (PM10) still exceeds the national limit (15 of 16 stations), making it clear that the city's air is still toxic, pollution levels in some areas are seeing a dip.Central Pollution Control Board norms say particulate matter shouldn't exceed 60 micrograms per cubic metre (ugM3). According to   data, six monitoring stations -at Export Promotional Park (ITPL); Peenya Industrial Area; Swan   Private Limited, Peenya; Amco Batteries, Mysuru Road; Yeshwantpur police station and Victoria hospital -have witnessed a fall in pollutant levels. Amco Batteries has recorded the steepest dip of 42%.
 
 KSPCB officials attribute the reduction to asphalting widening of roads and completion of major infrastructural work at some places.
 
 Apart from PM10, KSPCB monitoring stations also test the air for sulphur dioxide (SO2), nitrous dioxide (NO2) and carbon monoxide (CO) levels. While at most centres these indicators are within permissible limits, at City Railway Station, they exceed the national limit of 40 ugM3.
 
 
 
 
 Finally, some good news. The air we breathe is not as toxic as it was, but is still bad. If pollution is linked to infrastructure projects, as the pollution board claims it is, there is a lesson to be learnt here ­ the reduction is due to secondary reasons, and not because citizens or civic authorities are consciously attempting to bring down toxin levels. In a city whose green cover has been shorn by 45% over the past 25 years, due to development and construction, it is up to the people to ensure the city's greenery returns, as trees significantly cut down pollution levels. Planning the city better and pushing for green solutions could do the trick.
 
