HYDERABAD: Cracking a whip on Bengal and Jharkhand-based  , the   sleuths of Hyderabad police arrested 11 offenders and brought nine of them to the city on Sunday. Police learnt that some   employees associated with nationalised banks were selling customer information to culprits.

 To curb the menace of voice phishing fraudsters duping innocent people by posing as bank employees, the Cyber Crime police station of Hyderabad had dispatched three special teams to Jharkhand and West Bengal 10 days ago. As all fraudulent calls were made from Jharkhand and West Bengal border areas, the special teams went to Girdih, Geogarh, Jamtara, Dumka districts in Jharkhand, and Asansol and Kolkata in West Bengal. While two teams have returned to Hyderabad after the arrests, one team is still camping in Jharkhand to nab more offenders from Narayanpur and Karmatand areas.
 
 “The accused are all aged between 22 and 28 years and most of them were school or college drop outs. They were getting   by furnishing fake ID details in Bihar and Uttar Pradesh,“ a Cyber Crime official said.
 
 Among the arrested accused, Vikas and Manish were posing as bank officials and stealing money from the victims.The rest were allowing the duo to transfer the amount to their bank accounts to withdraw cash. Police found out that Vikas and Manish, residents of Jamtara, befriended, Bidhan Das, a telecaller handling SBI customers' grievances at a Kolkata-based BPO. “Whenever customers called the BPO with a grievance about the account, Das would forward the details to Vikas and Manish. The duo immediately used to call the customer posing as bank employees and collect debit card details and also ask OTP to transfer the cash from the bank account to money wallets like Paytm,“ an officer, who is part of the probe, said. The fraudsters used to tell customers that they were checking the account functioning and that the amount would be reverted once the process was over.
 
 “To put an end to the menace, we are also launching a campaign to increase awareness among people,“ assistant commissioner of police (ACP), Cyber Crime, KCS Raghu Vir said.
 
