GURGAON: Mining activities are on in full swing in Ankhir village, located along the Badkhal-Surajkund road, despite the ban on mining and restriction on construction in areas under the Natural Conservation Zone (NCZ) and Aravalis.

 In the middle of the Aravalis, a boundary wall has been built and the board bearing the name,  , can’t be missed. Two large earth movers have been working on the site continuously for the past few weeks to extract stone. So far, about a 30-40-foot-deep trench has been dug on a land parcel of about two acres.
 
 The area comes under   Gair Mumkin Pahar and was mapped under NCZ since September 2005 in keeping with the regional plan 2021. Under the plan, only 0.5% construction work can be carried out there. Also, according to the Supreme Court order issued in May 2002, no mining is allowed within 5km of the Delhi border in the Aravalis.
 
 However, the area is located about 1km from the Delhi border and Asola Sanctuary. Despite all these, mining is going on in the area and authorities are least bothered about it.
 
 Satish Prasher, senior town planner of  , claimed that the project has all the required permissions. “The forest department has given us permission for tree felling for the project and Delite Garden has secured the required approval. It comes under sections 4 & 5 of PLPA, where construction is not banned,” Parasher said.
 
 Sonu Bhatia, owner of Delite Garden, admitted that mining was on in the area but claimed that it was completely legal. He said the digging work was for the construction of banquet hall. “We have all the necessary permissions from the government agencies concerned,” Bhatia said. When asked about the notification on NCZ and Aravalis, Bhatia said his land did not fall under NCZ. “As far as the Aravali notification is concerned, it came into force in 2017 for Faridabad areas. We were given permission three years ago,” Bhatia said.
 
 Documents accessed by TOI reveal that the ministry of environment and forests (MOEF) had granted permission for diversion of forest land in 2010 for development of club-cum-recreational complex at Ankhir village. The permission for land diversion was given with certain conditions like — nature of the area will not be changed, no tree felling will take place, land cannot be used for any purpose other than that for which permission was granted and approval would be subject to the relevant court order applicable in the area.
 
 Environmental analyst Chetan Agarwal said this area was very close to Asola and in between Badkhal and Surajkund. “So to claim that it is not part of NCZ is absurd. How was the permission given when this area was mapped as NCZ in 2005,” Agarwal said. The permission is conditional and they cannot carry out mining and construction activities.
 
 Agarwal said the area in question was forest till 2003-04 according to google images. “Initially construction began at a slow pace and in 2010 they got a conditional approval from MoEF,” Agarwal said, adding that it was beyond their comprehension why authorities granted permission for a banquet hall in the middle of the Aravalis.
 
 Environmentalist Amina Shervani said government has been trying to dilute NCZ and making all efforts to not grant forest status to the Aravalis. “NCZ came under the regional plan in 2005 and they started ‘ground-truthing’ from 2004, which has not been completed to date. Recently, the state government has written to the NCR planning board to remove the restriction of 0.5% on construction, which was rejected,” Shervani said.
 
 He said, “Allowing construction in the Aravalis could be disastrous. Conservation of the Aravalis is important for various reasons including wildlife preservation.”
 
 
