PUNE: The much hyped water vending machines at the Pune railway station have been functioning despite many teething problems since the past two months now.

 Of the six machines installed on platforms jointly by the Pune railway division and the   Catering and Tourism Corporation Limited (IRCTC), there have been many complaints from passengers about some of them not functioning properly due to technical issues.
 
 Mangesh  , who was on platform number 1 around 10 days back, said that of the three machines, only one was in a working condition.
 
 “Though the machines, if operational, can be used by consumers themselves, only one machine, which had an attendant, was operational. The other two were out of order. What is the use of these machines if they are not functional?” asked Kadam, who had come to receive his cousin, said.
 
 With similar concerns raised time and again on social media too, TOI on Tuesday found that of the three machines on platform number-1, only one machine was non-functional, with a notice about the same written, and one was functional but didn’t have tumblers if anyone wanted a glass of water to drink. The third machine was functional. On platform number 2, one machine was non-functional with some technicians trying to fix it and the other was running properly.
 
 “There is one machine on platform number 1 which has been out of order for some days. Even the service of the one on platform number 3 is not consistent. There are many passengers who are poor and don’t have money to buy packed bottles. Therefore, the authorities should ensure that they remain functional all the time,”  , a passenger, said.
 
 When contacted, a railway official said that things would be in proper shape soon. “The company responsible for ensuring their functioning first said some changes are required in machine parts. We are providing water to them and it is their job to make sure that the machines are in good shape. We feel these are just teething problems and will be resolved soon. According to our report, five machines are functioning at present,” a railway official said.
 
