Coimbatore: A 100-feet scheme road that connects   to L&T Bye-Pass has been re-designated as 60-feet by the city corporation and the directorate of town and country planning, despite a case pending in the high court against the same, alleged RTI activists.

 Corporation commissioner K Vijayakarthikeyan passed a resolution to reduce the width of the road in 2016 and based on the resolution the DTCP passed orders. The 60-feet road is being laid currently.
 
 Members of the Veerappa Thevar Colony Resident Welfare Association who filed the case in the high court said that this entire procedure was against the norms. They also possess a court order passed in 2007 that had asked the corporation, LPA and DTCP to stop this process.
 
 B Kolandaiswamy, president of the association said, “As per the detailed development plan approved in 1991, a 100-feet scheme road and a 60 cent play ground was registered. Slowly, the adjoining areas were converted into residential plots and sold. In 2007, three land owners wrote to LPA to de-register the 60 cent playground and convert it into a residential land. LPA accepted the request and wrote to DTCP for the same but also added another point in the letter seeking the reduction of the width of the 100-feet road into 60-feet road. The DTCP had rejected the plea in 2009. But in June, 2010, DTCP passed an order approving the de-registration and to reduce the width of the road,” he said.
 
 RTI activist S P Thiyagarajan said the land owners also filed a writ in the high court and also raised objections to the order. In 2012, a writ was filed and the court ordered DTCP to reply in 8 weeks. But there was no response and a contempt petition was filed. DTCP was directed to take action within 3 weeks and hold meeting with the residential welfare association. 
 
 “But no meeting was held and the case is still pending in the court. In these circumstances, it is shocking that in February 2016, a resolution was passed by the corporation on the direction of DTCP to approve the reduction of width and in July, 2017, the road’s width was altered by DTCP,” said Thiyagarajan.
 
 He alleged that this was against the norms as the case is pending in the high court and as per HC order, de-registration of reserved sites was illegal. The residential welfare association has challenged the order and sought action against officials who have passed such illegal orders. “We request the senior officials to take action against those who acted under political pressure to deregister the land and do so when a case is pending in the court,” said Thiyagarajan.
 
 The corporation commissioner said that the civic body had already written to the DTCP seeking the land and asking them to increase its width. “We have already taken steps to reclaim the road and are working towards it,” he said. DTCP, Chennai is also aware of this and has ordered an enquiry into the matter.
 
 As per the Kulandaiswami, this road is very important as when developed it will connect directly to L&T bye pass road connecting to Ukkadam from Nanjundapuram easing traffic on Trichy road. 
 
 
