ALLAHABAD: Pensioners, housewives and unemployed youth are in fray in the Assembly election. Farmers, social workers, lawyers and businesswomen are also vying to be an MLA. They may or may not become an MLA but are likely to make a dent in the vote bank of big players. 

 Some candidates have filled the mandatory column of occupation in the affidavit submitted to returning officer as politics. Allahabad West constituency is seeing a contest between a pensioner, a student, social worker and a company director. 
 
  candidate from the constituency Richa Singh has mentioned her occupation as 'Father's dependent' while her rival Pooja Pal from Bahujan Samaj Party is a social worker by profession and Pragatisheel Samaj Party candidate Dakhini Prasad is a pensioner. 
 
 Dakhini's wife does menial job of sewing clothes of neighbours. All of them would contest against 'company director' Siddharth Nath Singh of Bharatiya Janata Party.
 
 Talking to TOI, Pooja said, "Politics is a social work so I have mentioned the occupation as social worker."
 
 Independent candidate from Pratappur assembly constituency Ram Kailash is a jobless youth as he has filled his job as 'none'. "I am doing service to mankind which in itself is a job," Kailash said. Apna Dal candidate from Handia Pramila Devi is also jobless while BJP candidate from Meja Neelam Karwariya has mentioned her profession as a businesswoman. 
 
 Independent candidate   is a class VIII passout. The unemployed candidate and is canvassing rigourously to make his presence felt in the political arena of the district.
 
 In the Allahabad North Assembly constituency, Independent candidate Madhu Singh, is a shopkeeper. Engineer Harshwardhan Bajpai (BJP) and sitting MLA from Congress Anugrah Narayan Singh is a lawyer.
 
 In   seat, Renu Yadav and Pushpa Devi are unemployed and contesting as Independent candidates while class VIII passout, a milk dairy owner Independent candidate Sitara Devi may make inroads in the vote base of big guns.
 
 
