BENGALURU: When the Metro finally came to   more than a year ago, people were relieved that one of their biggest complaints -- inadequate connectivity to their part of the city -- would finally be addressed. While the Metro service has its benefits, the seemingly irregular planning of its stations has left many people inconvenienced.

 Of the six Metro stations that fall within Vijayanagar constituency, only two have designated paid parking lots run by   (BMRCL) – Magadi Road and Mysuru Road. Due to inadequate land acquisition around the other stations, BMRCL has been unable to set up parking space for daily commuters at Deepanjali Nagar, Attiguppe, Hosahalli and   stations.
 
 The parking situation is particularly disorganized at Deepanjali Nagar station, where one half of the two-way street right under the station, is lined by two-wheelers on both sides. A little further down, cars and vans too make their appearance on either side of the narrow road. This has reduced the total width of usable road for vehicles to barely 5ft. Narrow pavements mean that pedestrians are forced to walk on the roads. Hawkers, too, sell their wares here.
 
 Ruth Nandini, who with her daughter Arshita, sells pakoras on the road right under the Metro station, says that they have nowhere else to go. “It’s not as if we are making a lot of money here, but it’s better than other places. After all expenses, I take home about Rs 250. There is constant movement of vehicles and people but they rarely stop and buy. The dust and smoke is also bothersome,” says Ruth, who’s been selling at the spot for the past year.
 
 CARS PARKED ALL DAY
 
 IT professionals Ramesh and Shivkumar have been parking their cars along the road every day, for the past year. “Yes, I know that this narrows the width of the road but heavy traffic is diverted to either end of this stretch. Only smaller vehicles face problems,” he said. “We started parking here because there was space. It’s not run by anybody and neither does anyone stop us,” said Ramesh, who works at Whitefield and saves three hours commuting, thanks to the Metro.
 
 Similarly in Vijayanagar and Attiguppe, given no space to park their vehicles, people have been forced to spill on to the service road, residential bylanes and in some cases, even on the main road.
 
 Rangaswamy, who has been selling hot snacks at a street corner under the Vijayanagar Metro station for the past 23 years, says that Vijayanagar MLA M Krishnappa, and BMRCL head   had visited the Metro station during Rajyotsava.
 
 “They said that they would fix the problem of irregular parking by regulating it. So many people park here every day, the line of vehicles reaches houses. People park as and where they find place and nobody can stop them,” he said.
 
 PARKING LOTS EMPTY
 
 By comparison, the large Metro parking lot at Magadi Road almost never sees full occupancy. Ramakrishna, the owner of an additional private lot at Magadi Road, says that barely 20 cars park here on a daily basis.
 
 Metro officials, however, state that they have no authority over land that is not theirs. “We can’t force people not to park on roads and park in our lots. We had set up a parking lot in Vijayanagar in August or September last year, but nobody used it. The contractor had to shut down by November as he wasn’t recovering the money,” they said, adding that people could park in the neighbouring stations also.
 
 
