LUCKNOW: Will the history of splits repeat itself for  ? Dislodged from the post of party national president by his son   (January 1, 2017) and now not being invited by him to the party's state convention,   has called a press conference at the Lohia Trust in the state capital on Monday to chart the future course.

 As chairman of Lohia Trust, Mulayam had convened last week a meeting of all members, in which he replaced his cousin and secretary of the Trust,   Yadav, with his brother Shivpal Yadav. Ram Gopal is seen as mastermind of the SP family feud guiding then chief minister Akhilesh Yadav to split the party. In retaliation to Ram Gopal's ouster from Lohia Trust, Akhilesh convened the party's state convention and did not invite both Mulayam and Shivpal.
 
 Shivpal Yadav had earlier announced forming a new 'morcha' (front) with Mulayam. Whether inside the party headquarters or in field during assembly elections, the battle between Akhilesh Yadav and Ram Gopal Yadav on one side and Mulayam and Shivpal on the other has continued for over a year effecting irreparable damage to the party, which lost power in 2017 elections.
 
 Splits and factional fights have been characteristic of socialist politics. Will Mulayam once again form a outfit? His Monday press confernce may give an indication.
 In 1934, a faction within Congress was named Congress Socialist Party with socialist leaders Acharya Narendra Dev, Aruna Asaf Ali, Ram Manohar Lohia and Jai Prakash Narain who parted ways with the Congress to form Praja Socialist Party (PSP) in 1948.
 
 In 1954, Socialist Party split into PSP and Socialist Party. In 1967, they reunited to form SVD (Sanyukta Vidhayak Dal) with some other parties, only to get divided again in 1965 into the same two parties. It united again in 1968 as Sanyukta Socialist Party, which split in 1972 into BKD (Bharatiya Kranti Dal ) and Socialist Party.
 
 The BJP was later named Lok Dal while the PSO and the Socialist Party merged to form the Janata Party. By 1980, the Janata Party split into various factions leading to the BJP becoming a formidable political force.
 
 Till 1989, the non-Congress, non-BJP factions led by Samajwadis, including Geroge Fernandez, formed Janata Dal which split into Janata Dal (U), Janata Dal (Secular), etc. In the churning within Janata Dal, the Mulayam faction formed Samajwadi Party in 1992, which flourished to the extent of dislodging Congress and later the BJP from UP for a long time.
 
 "Socialists never compromise on ideologies, so they keep splitting and breaking their moulds. If Mulayam parts ways with SP, it will be because Akhilesh is adamant on alliance with Congress," said Raj Nath Sharma a Lohiaite in Barabanki.
 
