NEW DELHI: Next time you are in or around   in west Delhi and want to have coffee or need to use WiFi, you may want to head to the area  . Strange as it may sound, it’s true. Call it the outcome of its state-of-the-art infrastructure or   policemen, the Kirti Nagar station tops the list for facilities, functioning and environment in Delhi, a department survey has found.

 After a long and exhaustive evaluation lasting a month, a Delhi Police committee, headed by special-commissioner-rank officers, has selected Kirti Nagar police station as the best in the capital, sources say. On Thursday, the police station chief and other senior officers will be felicitated by MoS (home) at the 70th Raising Day celebrations. The results will be announced there.
 
 The police station comes under the jurisdiction of P Kamraj, special commissioner (law and order) of south zone, and joint commissioner Dependra Pathak. The area DCP is Vijay Kumar and the station house officer (SHO) who has worked on the ground for bringing about change is Anil Sharma. From its reception to the lock-ups, it has set an example for other police stations in Delhi, which often come under criticism for being unfriendly. Soon after taking charge as police chief, Amulya Patnaik had made it clear that policemen needed to give priority to the people.
 
 This police station allows free WiFi for all visitors who just have to register their ID at the front desk. It also has a cafeteria where eatables are available on subsidised rates for policemen as well as the public. Moreover, the station has a website of its own (www.pskirtinagar.com), which the area residents and businessmen can use to approach the police for help. People can download various verification forms (like those for tenants or helps) from the website, apart from lodging complaints with the area SHO.
 
 The committee gave the station maximum points on patrolling, discipline and cleanliness. Purified water facility, clean washrooms and proper seating arrangements for visitors are other points where the Kirti Nagar station scored highly. Water and coffee dispensers, newspaper and security-related literature have also been placed in the visitors’ room. Apart from an indoor games room, the police station has a badminton court for policemen as well.
 
 
