 is neither a magician nor a psychologist but he can leave you spellbound for hours by playing with your mind and persuading you to say your thoughts out loud. The Kottayam-based mentalist, who calls himself a “psychological entertainer”, became a household name for Malayalis through his power-packed performances in TV shows such as Ugram Ujjwalam, Comedy Supernite, Comedy Stars and Onnum Onnum Moonu.

 The audience would still remember the mesmerising session in one episode of Comedy Stars where he made the entire audience including TV host and singer Rimi Tomy draw fish on the paper they were given, just by projecting his thoughts.
 
 For those who doubt if it was just a camera trick, here is the artiste revealing the secrets of his craft:
 
 
 
 
 I am an entertainer like a magician who uses thoughts and perspective of the audience as props. See, mentalism is a performance art using mind as the medium. It has elements of psychology such as body language, micro-expressions mixed with a bit of showmanship and magic. It’s not really related to astrology.
 
  However, it’s not a tool to unveil the secrets of others and harass them but is an artful performance that would leave the audience wonderstruck.
 
  
  
 
 Mentalism is also highly misinterpreted by many, who believe that mentalists are the alternatives for doctors and they have the power to solve problems. But that’s not true.
 
 For instance, now I am receiving a lot of queries related to actor Dileep's arrest. They all want to know if he is guilty or not.
 
 
 
 
  Since I was six, I wanted to be a performer and was initially attracted to the world of magic. People used to mock me for being crazy about it but I kept on attempting tricks that I learnt through reading. Later, psychology caught my attention and that veered me towards mentalism. I travelled a lot to learn the art. For me, what I achieved right now is beyond what I could think of when I first started out.
  
  
 
 
 
  My first stage show in Kerala was in 2006 and in the past decade, the attitude of people has changed and they have become more receptive. However, it was tough as majority among us are skeptical and the rest are highly superstitious. So, they come to my shows to test me.
 
  Television has become a popular medium for Malayalis and I have been doing shows on various channels. From my observation, people are still curious about mentalism even though it’s not new to them. For the art to have more impact, it must be performed live as people are of the opinion that TV shows aren’t credible and they doubt we are using camera tricks or everything is scripted. 
 
  
  
 
  Interestingly, a few have misunderstood me as a healer or an exorcist. I have been receiving so many calls, seeking help to ward off ghosts or demons. I want to clarify that it’s the power of mind that I am using to perform these tricks and it’s something that everyone can do, if you really try.
 
 
 
 This art can be used for self-evolution. People can set a goal and achieve it. Through the power of mind, they can enhance their talents, gain confidence and also get rid of their bad habits and fears. People can achieve happiness and solve issues in personal and professional life. They just need to understand the real power within themselves. Twenty one days of focus on your goals and continuous practice is all that’s required.
 
 
