NEW DELHI: The   and the government were in regular touch over the   of Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 notes and printing of a new series of notes since January 2016, the central bank and senior officials told a parliamentary committee on Wednesday .

 In his comments before the standing committee on finance, RBI governor   said consultations were held but no minutes were maintained to en sure that secrecy was not compromised. The actual decision was taken around May 27 last year.
 
 Patel also informed the committee that of the Rs 15.44 lakh crore that was demonetised, Rs 9.2 lakh crore had been replaced by way of new currency notes.After an initial slow phase, new Rs 500 and Rs 2,000 notes were being deposited with banks in increasing numbers, suggesting that the currency has be gun circulating.
 
 In separate interactions with the panel on Wednesday , finance ministry officials and Patel said discussions on demonetisation were held, countering suggestions that the RBI recommended demonetisation after being prodded by the government at a very late date just ahead of the November 8 announ cement by PM  .
 
 BJP member Nishikant Dubey is understood to have suggested that the RBI could produce travel details of its officials and other records to confirm that the discussions with the government did indeed take place. Urjit Patel said he was not in a position to respond to questions whether deposits below a threshold would not be investigated. He was asked about the central bank's autonomy as well in the context of the demonetisation decision.
 
 Patel's comments on interactions with the government elaborated on the background note that the central bank had provided the committee. “It occurred to the government and the RBI that the introduction of new series of notes could provide a very rare and profound opportunity to tackle all three problems of counterfeiting, terrorist financing and black money by demonetising bank notes of Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 or by withdrawing legal tender status of such notes,“ the bank said.
 
