KOLHAPUR: In view of the recent incidents of   at   village in Sangli district, the   (KMC) has decided to step up efforts to stop misuse of sonography machines in the city. The civic body’s health department will soon scrutinise the closed sonography centres. 

 In 2015, the authorities had found a sonography machine in a car being used for sex determination. The machine belonged to a centre which was shut after repeated complaints. 
 
 Udaykumar Bhat, co-ordinator for implementation of PCPNDT Act said, “60 sonography centres in the city were closed in the past few years. We are going to chek the status of the machines used in these centres, besides conducting quarterly visits to the active sonography centres.”
 
 “We have assigned the heads of the six family welfare centres in the city to scrutinise the status of the machines being used in various parts of the city. We will check whether the machines are properly sealed; we will check the documents in case the machine is given back to the company and is not in use. If the machine needs to be disposed of, we will make the arrangements for proper disposal of the e-waste,” he said.
 
 Currently, 130 sonography centres are active in the city. The KMC authorities said that the discrepancies found at the centres are mostly regarding the documentation and, so, they have decided to take strong action against doctors who fail to maintain records and file the reports online.
 
 The other discrepancies the KMC has observed are the absence of the manual for using the machines and failing to display the boards showing the child sex ratio. Stringent punishments are prescribed under the PCPNDT Act to serve as a deterrent for violations of the act.
 
 The PCPNDT Act department is given powers of a civil court to search, seize or seal machines, equipment and records of the violators of law, including sealing of premises and commissioning of witnesses. 
 
 During the period 2001 to 2011, the sex ratio for children in the age group of 0 to 6 years increased from 839 to 863 girls against 1,000 boys. 
 
 In 2011, district administration had installed a high-tech watchdog, silent observer, to track sex determination tests. The software, when installed in sonography machines, will keep a log of all pregnancy tests done in a year’s time. The tamper-proof programme will also record the diagnosis done by doctors. However, the central government has invalidated the use of silent observer around two years ago as the policy framework is not yet drafted.
 
