CHANDIGARH: To avoid a repeat of the fire at  's administrative block in the wee hours of Sunday, the   administration has decided to rein in consumers using electricity more than the sanctioned load.

 Consuming power more than sanctioned load enhances the risk of short-circuits and fires manifold. It also puts a load on existing distribution lines which may not be equipped to carry enhanced load. A short-circuit was said to be the cause of fire at PU.
 
 Over the years, the UT electricity department has been facing the problem of consumers, residential and commercial, drawing more power than the sanctioned load. The malpractice is also rampant in government buildings.
 
 Taking serious note, UT adviser   has directed the electricity department to review the load requirement of consumers to avoid fires caused by electrical short circuits. The adviser has also directed UT home secretary Anurag Agarwal and chief engineer   to take corrective steps in view of increased incidents of electrical fire and distribution disruptions caused by power overloading.
 
 The department caters to 2.15 lakh consumers, of which 1.75 lakh are in the domestic category. However, only 40,000 users have declared the actual load. As per the Electricity Act, consumers have to declare their actual electricity load, failing which action is initiated against the offender for failure to declare power load.The Act provides for imposing a fine at the rate equal to one-and-a-half times the tariff rates applicable for the particular category.
 
 As a preventive measure, the department used to declare defaulters as unauthorised users, but was forced to stop the practice after the   ( ) imposed an embargo on it in 2013.
 
 The non-declaration of actual load hampers planning of the department, and this leads to erratic power supply .This also leads to problem transformers getting overloaded. A Powergrid study had revealed that more than 95% suffered frequent breakdowns due to overloading.
 
 To address the problem of overloading, JERC had directed the electricity department to conduct a detailed load forecasting study to understand the load requirements in different area at different time periods. The UT adviser has also directed the engineering department for having a separate sub-station for big institutes like PU and PGI.
 
