Panaji: The state government on Wednesday decided to constitute a special taskforce to ensure that infrastructure projects taken up by state-owned agencies are completed on schedule. The taskforce, which will be headed by   officer Isha Khosla will report to chief minister Manohar Parrikar.

 Khosla’s appointment as an officer on special duty to take care of infrastructure projects comes along with her appointment as the special secretary for budget and is part of portfolio reshuffle for senior bureaucrats.
 
 One of the main tasks for Khosla will be to give priority to the South Goa district hospital that has failed to be completed for more than five years.
 
 With additional IAS officers being appointed to the state’s administration after IAS officer Ranbir Singh was transferred back to Delhi in August, the government decided to reallocate certain portfolios.
 
 P Krishnamurthy, a 1997 batch IAS officer, has been appointed as principal secretary to Parrikar along with additional charge of Pr Resident Commissioner in New Delhi.
 
 Newly-appointed IAS officer W V Ramanmurthy has been appointed as secretary for cooperation along with social welfare, civil aviation and protocol.
 
 Padma Jaiswal has been relieved of the labour and employment and cooperation portfolios, but retains public grievances, NRI affairs, official language, while also serving as the member secretary for Goa state commission for backward classes and commission for protection of child rights.
 
 Power secretary Sanjay Goel has been divested of the civil aviation portfolio and has been given charge of animal husbandry and veterinary services. He continues to hold the non-conventional energy, panchayat, rural development agency and Swachh Bharat portfolios.
 
 Similarly, finance secretary Daulat Hawaldar has been given additional charge of mines and geology, art and culture and education. Some of these portfolios were held by Ranbir Singh before he moved back to Delhi.
 
 Secretary for administrative reforms P S Reddy has been given charge of the water resources department and labour & employment in addition to his earlier portfolios.
 
 Sudhir Mahajan, who serves as the secretary of urban development, will continue to hold charge of the industries, revenue, law and judiciary portfolios, but the health portfolio has been given to 2005 batch IAS officer B R Singh.
 
 B R Singh continues to hold the housing, TCP, sports and youth affairs, agriculture and other portfolios. Rupesh Kumar Thakur has been appointed as secretary to the governor with additional charge of museum, archaeology, civil supplies and archives. All other IAS officers will hold the portfolios allocated on August 3.
 
 
