CHENNAI: People in Alanganallur and a few other places in Tamil Nadu on Sunday 
  as they wanted a permanent solution whereby the bull-taming sport can be held without any legal hindrances in future.

 The state government on Saturday 
  to amend the   to enable the conduct of jallikattu and said chief minister O   would flag off the event at Alanganallur around 10am. The chief minister said a bill would be introduced in the assembly on Monday to replace the ordinance.
 
 However, the protesters were not ready call off their agitation as they wanted the Centre to amend the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act as a permanent solution. They felt an ordinance passed by the state government or a bill passed by the state assembly would face legal hurdles.
 
 As police and officials were making preparations for the conduct of jallikattu at Alanganallur, which is the epicenter of the protests, people blocked roads and 'vaadivasal' (the gateway to the jallikattu venue). 
 
 The protest at Alanganallur, which began on Monday after police arrested jallikattu supporters, entered the seventh day on Sunday.
 
 The chief minister, who reached in Madurai on Saturday night to flag off jallikattu at Alanganallur, remained in hotel on Sunday morning even as officials tried to hold talks with the protesters. Later, he left for Chennai saying the event would be held in Alanganallur "when people are ready."
 
 "The ban on jallikattu has been removed completely. The sport will be held at Alanganallur on a date decided by local people," Panneerselvam told reporters in Madurai before leaving for Chennai.
 
 Jallikattu, which was scheduled to be held at Koolaimedu in Salem district, was cancelled following protests. State highways minister   was to inaugurate the event.
 
 Protesters didn't allow revenue department officials and police to enter the village. "We will not allow the minister and the officials to hold jallikattu," they said.
 
 
 
 
 However, jallikattu was held in a few villages in Trichy and Pudukottai districts. As many as 100 bulls were let loose during a jallikattu event at St Antony's Church in Pudhupatti near Trichy. Cash prizes were distributed to winning bull-tamers.
 
 State minister S P Valumani inaugurated rekla race (ox-cart race) on CODISSIA grounds in Coimbatore on Sunday morning. But only three carts were used in the race as students protested. The minister left the venue before the race was over. Only after MLAs and officials left and the stage was dismantled, did the protesting students left the venue. They went to VOC park ground to continue their protest there.
 
