BHATINDA: Sirsa-based sect   is expected to take a final call about supporting any political party in Punjab by February 1. Dera’s political wing is holding crucial meetings to arrive at a consensus to support a party for  .

 Dera head   on Monday tried to stop polarization of votes and asked the ‘premis’ (followers) to stay united. He, however, said the decision about supporting any party had not been taken so far by the dera’s political wing.
 
 Dera’s political wing chief Ram Singh said a decision about supporting any party could be made either on January 31 or February 1. He, however, made it clear that many of the dera units across Malwa region had recommended extending support to the SAD-BJP.
 
 The dera head is facing cases of castration of his followers, sexual abuse of women disciples and murder.
 
 Nearly a decade after facing the wrath of Sikhs for dressing up like their 10th master Guru Gobind Singh, Gurmeet Ram Rahim held an interaction with the newspersons through video conferencing at many places across Punjab and Haryana for the first time on Monday.
 
 The dera head also addressed his followers through webcast. The video conference organized five days ahead of the assembly elections is being seen as a major development to stop polarization of votes of  , supposedly in lakhs in the border state which may prove crucial in the Malwa region.
 
 Though he held the conference to promote his movie ‘Hind Ka Napak Ko Jawab’, he also spoke about politics.
 
 Due to technical snag, the conference was cut short, but the dera followers were upbeat at most of the places, including Bathinda, Muktsar, Fazilka, Abohar and Ferozepur where the sect has considerable clout.
 
 Three days ago, 80 candidates cutting across party lines had reached sect headquarters at Sirsa seeking blessings from Gurmeet Ram Rahim.
 
 The dera had openly supported the Congress in 2007 Punjab assembly elections and BJP in the 2014 assembly elections in Haryana. It had not given open support to any party in the 2012 Punjab assembly elections. Dera’s political wing in December 2016 had held meetings of followers in all its units in Punjab and had asked them to stay united.
 
