KOLKATA: Two doctors -aged 70 and 63 and separated more than three decades ago -fought inside a Baghajatin hospital recently over who will secure their son's future. The woman doctor alleged that her former husband slapped her leading to bleeding injuries on her right ear. Though the incident took place on July 17, the complaint and counter complaint were lodged only on Thursday .

 Sources said the incident took place when Tapati Mondal, a former KMC executive health officer, met her ex-husband 
 A K Sinha at the outdoor ward of The Red Plus Society Nursing Home in Baghajatin. Sinha, too, had retired as the KMC medical officer. “The two doctors -both residents of Baghajatin -were not on the same page about ways to secure the future of their 38year-old son, who is trying to establish himself as a hospital instrument supplier and medical representative,“ said a source.
 
 Police said the two had arguments earlier on this and lodged general diaries against each other. “But on that day , they attacked each other. The woman alleged she was brutally slapped leading to bleeding injuries on her right ear. She also had to be admitted to SSKM,“ said police.
 
 The woman also alleged that her life was under threat. “It's only in the last 48 hours that we received a complaint from her and registered a case,“ said an officer, adding that they have also received a complaint from Sinha after which a counter case was registered. “We have sent notices to both the doctors and asked them to join probe,“ said an officer. Police said they are speaking to patients and other staff present at the nursing home on July 17. “It seems the duo attacked each other on the spur of the moment and didn't have any mala fide intentions. We have collected the medico legal case report from SSKM that demonstrates the severity of the woman's wounds. We are also talking to neighbours to ascertain the claim by Sinha that he was being “harassed“ by Mondal,“ said an officer. Police said they are not planning any arrest till the initial probe gets over.
 
 Psychiatrist J Ram said the incident could have been triggered by the resurgence of an animosity . “It is unlikely that both of them had carried their animosity for so long. It rather seems to be a case of a new flare-up triggered by a recent issue involving the son.“
 
 
