COIMBATORE: The personnel of the   on Friday administered antibiotics to a seven-year-old lone   and a three-year-old male elephant suffering from   in Coimbatore forest range. A team, led by forest veterinarian NS Manoharan, darted the   with medicines.

 The female elephant, found roaming alone in Thippanur near Pannimadai during night hours, was affected by bacterial infection in its mouth. Though a team from the department had attempted to treat the elephant a few days ago, it chased them away. They later decided to administer medicine by remote injection.
 
 Meanwhile, the officials approached the ailing elephant with fruits mixed with medicine. “We placed fruits mixed with medicines near a gated community area at Thippanur some days ago and the elephant was not hesitant to eat it,” said S Ramasubramanian, district forest officer (DFO), Coimbatore forest division.
 
 The personnel darted it on Friday night. “The antibiotic drug will cure the wounds in its mouth. We have been providing medicine-laced fruits for the last five days and noticed improvement in its condition. It would recover completely soon,” Ramasubramanian told TOI.
 
 The three-year-old male calf was in a herd seen at a brick kiln unit at Veerapandipudur near Thadagam. “We administered medicine to the elephant calf also using a dart. The health condition of the animal has improved,” said Ramasubramanian.
 
 The chief conservator of forests (CCF), I Anwardeen, congratulated the field staff for conducting the treatment. “It was a very risky operation. Thanks to our staff, the two animals are recovering from the ailment. We have taken dung samples for analysis. The animals are affected by unfavourable weather, ecological stress, lower immunity and inbreeding depression,” he told TOI.
 
 Only rains and fresh pasture availability in the natural habitat can improve the health of the wild animals, Anwardeen added.
 
 Meanwhile, Ramasubramanian blamed man-animal conflict for the spread of bacterial infections among wild animals. “There is acute water scarcity in the reserve forest. When villagers take cattle to the forest area for grazing, the domestic animals drink from the water resources inside the forest. Due to this, bacterial infections spread to the wild animals,” he said.
 
