Nagpur: RSS sarsanghachalak Mohan Bhagwat while supporting economic reforms initiated by the Narendra Modi government has cautioned it to ensure effectively implementation. “There is no dearth of courage for taking bold steps. But they are yet to meet all expectations,” said the RSS chief. 

 Without mentioning demonetisation and GST, he called for need to protect interests of all sections of society.
 
 In an apparent reference to dissent by BJP’s ex-finance minister Yeshwant Sinha to the Modi government, Bhagwat stressed on the “need for a system to gather realistic information from all sources about execution and impact of the schemes percolating down to the lowest level through effective administration.” Apparently the attempt was to shift blame on administration for the Modi government’s perceived failures and slow down in economy.
 
 Describing Modi’s policies to control corruption, as “bold and sincere,” Bhagwat, however, said, “Yet the requirement of an integrated and holistic policy which will take into consideration the diversity and disparate needs of industry, agriculture, environment together is very much felt.”
 
 In his nearly 90 minute address to the   here, the RSS chief repeatedly stressed on need for gearing up administration for effective implementation of policies. Measures like farm loan waiver, crop insurance are signs of sensitivity and goodwill of the government. But these temporary steps are no solution to the problem, he said adding that farmers were at the crossroads of technology and need for better infrastructure and support. “Tremors and instability can be expected while implementing the policies but the government has to ensure that interests of big industry as well as small businesses are equally served,” he said. 
 
 Backing the ‘gaurakshaks’, Bhagwat said it is unfair to link cow-protection with violence or communal feelings. He said words in the Supreme Court verdict were twisted to misinterpret it and give vigilantism a bad name. “The legal virtuous work of cow-protection will continue and increase in coming days,” he declared adding that many involved in the pious work had sacrificed their lives.
 
 Bhagwat endorsed Modi’s attempts to get global recognition for India and said for the first in 70 years the world was taking notice of India and giving the importance it deserves. He also praised the smooth handling of Doklam issue in Bhutan and effective controlling of Pakistan-backed separatists in Jammu and Kashmir.
 
 On Rohingya crisis, Bhagwat said there was no way the illegal migrants from Myanmar who pose a grave threat to India’s security could be given shelter in the name of humanitarian gesture. 
 
 He also hoped that the long-awaited education policy that would impart high moral values and help in shaping character would be presented as soon as possible.
 
 
