Even as molestation's across the country continue to grab headlines and news hour debates reiterate the 'No means no' catchphrase from his last release, the courtroom-drama, 'Pink';   has quietly started work on his next film. It revolves around our Independence struggle and a long-forgotten martyr,  . The filmmaker reveals that he has been researching the subject for years and when he came to Mumbai, this was the first film he wanted to make.

 "During my theatre days in Delhi, back in 1995 when I was still studying, I would go with a group to Punjab which was just coming out of a period of turmoil, and sing songs of communal harmony. I visited Amritsar and the Jallianwala Bagh then and was greatly inspired by the story of this fiery revolutionary who shot dead Sir Michael O'Dwyer, the former Lieutenant Governor of Punjab in British India, in London to avenge the massacre of 1919," informs Shoojit.
 
 He admits he's been toying with the idea of making this film for years but every time he planned something, a pre-Independence film would come up and he'd push his film to later. "I guess every film has its own destiny. But now the time has come to remind the people of our country about those behind the freedom we are enjoying today. Udham Singh's name doesn't find a mention in our textbooks, he was one of our silent heroes, but his daring and sacrifice marked a turning point in India's history. After  , he was one of our greatest martyrs and his vision for the country was very contemporary and relevant even today," asserts the filmmaker who's scouting for a leading man who can play this heroic role which spans 30-40 years and will bring the Shaheed to life.
 
 He has already started with some of the background scenes. The main shooting will begin post-monsoon and he'll be filming in Delhi, parts of Punjab and Kashmir, Kolkata and London where the assassination took place. He plans to release it by year-end or early next year.
 
 He is also collaborating on another screenplay with his writer,  , which he describes as a simple, young love story revolving around an issue which he is reluctant to divulge. This film will be shot alongside the Udham Singh biopic and Shoojit will be directing both films.
 
 Who was Udham Singh?
 
 Born   on December 26, 1899, in Sunam in the Sangrur district of Punjab, he lost his father, Sardar Tehal Singh Jammu, early and grew up in an orphanage in Amritsar. There he was administered the Sikh initiatory rites and rechristened Udham Singh.
 
 On April 10, 1919, many local leaders, including Satya Pal and Saifuddin Kitchlew, were arrested under the Rowlatt Act.
 
 Protestors were fired on by British troops, precipitating a riot during which British banks were burned and four Europeans were killed. On April 13, over 20,000 unarmed protestors assembled in Jal lianwala Bagh. Udham and his friends were serving water when Brigadier-General Reginald Dyer ordered his troops to fire without warning. Around 1500 people were killed and over 1200 wounded. The governor of Punjab, Michael O'Dwyer, supported the massacre, and Udham jumped into revolutionary politics, organising Indians overseas towards overthrowing colonial rule in India. In 1927, he returned to India on Bhagat Singh's orders, bringing 25 associates, revolvers and ammunition. He as arrested for possession of unlicensed arms, prosecuted and sentenced to five years in prison.
 
 Upon his release from prison in 1931, despite close surveillance by the Punjab police, Udham made his way to Kashmir and escaped to Germany. In 1934, he reached London and on March 13, 1940, entered the Caxton Hall where O'Dwyer was scheduled to speak at a joint meeting of the   and the Central Asian Society, with a revolver in his jacket pocket. At the end of the meeting, he shot O'Dwyer twice, killing him immediately. He didn't attempt to flee, was arrested and charged with the murder.
 
 While awaiting trial in Brixton Prison, he went on a 42-day hunger strike and had to be forcibly fed.
 
 On June 4, 1940, his trial commenced at the   in Old Bailey. Udham insisted Dwyer deserved to die and it had taken him 21 years to do the job. Now, he was not scared to die for his motherland. He was convicted, sentenced to death and on July 31, 1940, hanged at   and buried there.
 
 In 1974, his remains were exhumed and repatriated to India. He was cremated in his birthplace, Sunam, and a part of his ashes sealed in an urn at Jallianwala Bagh.
 
