BATHINDA: Come 2018, cotton   in the country may get two homegrown BT cotton seeds that they would not have to purchase every year.

 Ludhiana-headquartered   (PAU) has become the first agriculture research institute in India to develop two varieties of BT cotton whose plant’s seed can be used in the next season too, claimed PAU board of management member Satbir Singh Gosal on Tuesday.
 
 Speaking at an interaction with farmers at PAU’s regional research station in Bathinda, PAU’s Faridkot research station director Pankaj Rathore said this was the first that such seeds had been developed in the country. 
 
 Farmers would save on the cost of purchasing cotton seeds of hybrid varieties by using the F1861 and PAU BT1 strains, said Rathore. These varieties will be discussed at a meeting of   (AICRP) on cotton in Coimbatore on April 8 and will be sent to its genetic-engineering appraisal committee (GEAC) for approval in the next two months.
 
 PAU is hoping that the two varieties would be available to farmers by 2018.
 
 PAU scientists claimed these varieties would be out of patent, unlike the Monsanto-patented hybrid strains. At present, a 450-gram packet of the hybrid BT cotton variety costs Rs 800 to a farmer. Two packets are used per acre. If all goes according to plan, farmers using the two PAU varieties could end up saving Rs 1,600 per acre.
 
 The cotton crop in Punjab’s Malwa region was badly damaged due to rampant whitefly attack in 2015, causing huge losses to the growers. Many farmers had ended lives following crop failure.
 
 Gosal said the F1861 variety was developed in collaboration with yhe   (CICR), Nagpur. “The PAU BT1 variety has been wholly developed by us. We will discuss about these varieties at the Coimbatore meet and send these to GEAC in the next two months. We hope to start providing these to farmers in 2018,”Gosal said.
 
 Gosal said GEAC had given permission to Monsanto to commercially release hybrid Bollgard in 2002 and its patent had expire,d so PAU felt the need to prepare varieties kept out of the purview of patent. “We have conducted the tests on these varieties to evaluate the seed quality. These varieties are resistant to cotton leaf curl virus and expected to give yield equal to the current hybrid varieties,” he said.
 
 
