New Delhi: East corporation has started cracking down on senior officers and head of departments who have been showing lethargy in executing the anti-mosquito measures of the civic body. It will soon start disciplinary action and has withheld their salaries till further orders. The show cause notice has been issued to the six senior level officers who are of executive engineer, deputy commissioner rank, deputy director level and ADE rank.

 “Senior officers and head of departments were assigned wards for monitoring of wards besides sanitation. It is needless to mention that checking of breeding of mosquitoes is an important municipal function in control of dengue and chikungunya,” the notice issued by additional commissioner health said.
 
 “However, despite repeated requests, officers are not submitting their daily report to undersigned. The commissioner has shown his displeasure against these officers who have failed to carry out this important and mandatory municipal assignment,” it goes on to add.
 
 The defaulting officers have been asked to submit their explanation within three days as to why disciplinary action should not be taken against them for failing to carry out their assignment. The commissioner of the east corporation Mohanjeet Singh said such monitoring will be done regularly from now on.
 
 The north corporation on the other hand has incorporated new features on its website through which the residents will be able to file online complaint related to mosquito breeding which will directly go to public health department. Area rooster as well as duty chart of domestic breeding checkers has also been provided and if resident need any help they can be called. The website lists a toll free number 18002008701 where the complaint regarding mosquito breeding can also be registered. “Complainants will be able to track the progress and action taken. They’ll be able to give suggestions or point out shortcomings in the system” said the commissioner of the civic body, PK Gupta.
 
 
