NAVI MUMBAI:   has   to come up with the tallest towers in the city, as a part of an ambitious Navi Mumbai corporate park project on a 120-hectare plot close to Parsik Hill in Kharghar. 

 In order to do so, Cidco is looking at permission of 3 FSI, double of urban commercial FSI that it grants, with the Fadnavis government for developing these towers.
 
 The project is currently at the designing stage and seven architects out of whom six have come from abroad have been invited to present their designs. 
 
 It hopes to build the park with corporate offices and also premium residential buildings for a estimated total population of around 2.75 lakh by 2030. 
 
 The corporate park is being planned to accommodate some two lakh who would be employed and includes floating population, while the residential premises will accommodate another 75,000.
 
 Cidco MD,   told TOI, “There is an earlier proposal asking for 3 FSI with the government, which we are looking at. We will table the final design that we choose after the competition among seven architects for the government takes a decision.” 
 
 The design of one of the seven architects will be chosen. It could be less FSI too, but will depend upon the desired design and government’s decision, he added.
 
 BKC has been developed in Mumbai with 2.5 FSI, Cidco said. However, this corporate park is different and will have many more features for residents like shopping outlets, restaurants etc.
 
 The planning department said the architects shortlisted will be briefed about the design and overall layout in the coming week. 
 
 The architects will be free to make use of the FSI to plan and provide the best design. The FSI has not been frozen though and the business park with the desired features and futuristic layout can also be done with a lower FSI, say 2.5. 
 
 “It depends on how the park is designed and how it matches with our concept for the futuristic park, said Gagrani.”
 
 The concept of global FSI will be used to design the park. It means total built up area on the landmass will remain fixed, but it will be allotted differently to plots with a certain design layout. There could be a layered structure to the park with the central area having the tallest structures with more FSI in what is described as a pyramid-like design.
 
 The architects will put to use 3 or less FSI that will be multiplied with the total landmass for total built up area and then allot it to plots. There will be differential FSI for commercial and residential constructions.
 
 IMC, Chamber of Commerce and Industries, organised Airport Investment Summit last month for enhancing the public private partnership and for prompting synergy between Airport and Cites to achieve sustainable development.
 
 Jayant Sinha, Union Minister of State for civil aviation inaugurated it. Chief Minister of Maharashtra & senior officials of state Govt, civil aviation ministry, DGCA & Airport Authority of India attended the summit.
 
 In the panel discussions on aviation regulations and building heights in the cities, Dinkar  , advisor-planning, Panvel City Municipal Corporation and one who had submitted a proposal for the corporate park to Cidco in 2016 raised the issue of permissible height for the proposed park at Kharghar.
 
 Samant said, “For achieving desired urban design form to create more public spaces on the ground and to achieve higher FSI, 180 m height needs to be permitted at this location.”
 
  This may be technically feasible as the site is located within two kilometre distance of Kharghar Hill having altitude of 250 m, he added. “I also suggested that DGCA should take up a micro level study of this location to make the proposed business park to achieve international standards in terms of urban design,” added Samant.
 
 Tall claims
 
  The biz park will be developed on the land sprawl spread across sectors 25, 26, 29, 30 and 31 close to the Central Park 
 
 The golf course and Central Park are the open green spaces that are a plus for the global park
 
 Cidco has planned for maximum building height of 150 metre; this includes the 15-20 metre height of the ground level above sea level
 
 The actual tower would be 130 metre tall
 
