THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Though it is a monthly affair,   is rarely discussed at home or office. People have been squeamish discussing the `taboo' subject until recently when the nation saw several protests such as #happytobleed campaigns.This  's Day , Thiruvananthapuram will see people across   celebrate menstruation for the first time at a public event.

 On March 8, a day-long festival `Celebrate Menstruation' will be held at Manaveeyam Veedhi. The event has been organized by the Sustainable Menstruation Kerala Collective (SMKC), which have members from Thanal Trust, The Red Cycle, Haiku, CodeRed and Happy To Bleed.
 
 The event will start at 10am with an expo which will feature exhibition and sale of alternative products to sanitary napkins, which are difficult to dispose of and allegedly causes health issues. The stall will feature products such as menstrual cup, reusable and eco-friendly products and reusable cloth pads.
 
 Shradha Sreejaya, member of the SMKC, said organizers have invited students and women from various in stitutions to attend the event. “Menstrual hygiene educators and activists will discuss about health and environment issues at the event. Studies show that a lot of women, especially students, have been affected by various diseases such as cervical cancer caused by chemicals from sanitary napkins,“ she said.
 
 Admitting that it was the first-of-its-kind event in the state, Shradha said the organizers do not expect people to `serve death threats' for conducting such an event.
 
 The venue will also host an art event in the evening. A documentary , Womenses, directed by Unnikrishnan Avala, will be screened. The organizers will also set up an art installation and arrange a live skit on the topic menstruation.
 
 These will be followed by panel discussion, which will see participation of activists such as Nikitha Azad, who initiated #happytobleed campaign against the Sabarimala issue.
 
 The Red Cycle, in association with the college union, Government Law College, Kozhikode and the college union, Government Medical College, Kozhikode have decided to organize two separate events, Womenses and Bloody Talk, in their respective campuses on March 9.
 
