NAGPUR: Though the Union ministry of environment, forests and climate change (MoEFCC) has made it mandatory for   to supply   of cost to users and even bear its transportation charges, most thermal power plants in the region are flouting this rule.

 As per the ministry’s revised notification dated January 25, 2016, coal-based power plants that are unable to fully utilize fly-ash generated by them, have to supply it free to cement units, road construction sites, brick manufacturers, irrigation canals and other users.
 
 The power plant has to pay for transportation of fly-ash if the user is located within 100-kilometre range. It has to bear half the transportation cost if the user is between 100-300 kilometres away. In case of government projects, it has to be transported free even up to 300 kms.
 
 TOI’s investigation has revealed that most of the road contractors of Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) and cement plants have to pay for the transportation and in some cases, fly-ash itself. “Sometimes, we get it for free while at other times, we pay for it. But we have to bear the transportation cost in both the cases,” said an official of Ambuja Cement, Chandrapur.
 
 An NMC contractor, who is building cement road in areas like Civil Lines and North Nagpur, said he obtains fly-ash from three plants — Khaparkheda and Koradi-- run by Mahagenco and   run by Reliance. “We check the quality of fly-ash and take the best through a supplier. Most plants don’t give it for free. The rates are open for bargain and can vary between Rs250-500 per tonne,” he said.
 
 Another contractor said fly-ash was provided for free but he did not have proper vehicles to transport it. “We have to pay for the bulkers,” he said.
 
 A Mahametro official said the contractors were not charged for fly-ash but for transportation and loading-unloading by the suppliers. 
 
 One of the prominent suppliers of fly-ash, on condition of anonymity, said he purchased fly-ash at Rs30-40 per tonne from plants in Koradi and Khaparkheda. “The total cost depends on carrying capacity of the vehicle. We supply the fly-ash to ready-mix concrete plants and for other cement works. Our sale price depends on transportation charges,” the supplier said.
 
 NTPC, which runs a power plant in Mouda, does not deny that it sells fly-ash. “We supply it free-of-cost to brick kiln owners. For other users, we hold an e-auction,” said Pravin Garg, assistant general manager (HR) of NTPC, Mouda.
 
 Adani Power, which runs a plant in Tiroda, provides fly-ash for free to brick kiln owners as well as cement plants. “We transport the fly-ash to the kilns for free but we share the transportation charges with cement plants,” said a spokesperson. 
 
 Shyam Wardhane, managing director of Mahagenco Ash Management Services (Mahagams), had no clear explanation for not complying with MoEFCC’S norms. “These rules are not applicable to power plants having 100 per cent fly-ash utilization. We are setting-up industrial clusters near the power plants to achieve this target,” Wardhane said.
 
