COIMBATORE: The public health department, which continues to downplay the number of deaths due to   in the city, on Tuesday admitted that the virus was more virulent this year.

 The director of public health, Dr K  , said people above 40 years of age were more prone to the flu this time, compared to previous years. “After contracting the virus, their health condition deteriorates fast and they often suffer from pneumonia,” he said.
 
 Pointing out that it was a seasonal flu, Kolandaisamy said the   virus, like all other virus, keeps its strains changing or mutating every year. “This year, it is more virulent especially in people above 40,” he said.
 
 People contracted with the H1N1 virus first shows symptoms of sore throat and fever, which soon escalate into severe pneumonia in hardly three days. The case was same in patients without other complications.
 
 “However, the positive part of the virus mutating is that this season it is not affecting pregnant women unlike in 2009-’10 when many women in Kerala died of the flu,” he said.
 
 The city government hospital alone has so far reported seven deaths due to H1N1 virus. The public health department, however, insisted that there have been only three deaths due to the flu.
 
 Speaking at a H1N1 virus prevention camp organised at PSG Tech,   said, “There have been only three deaths in Coimbatore and Tirupur due to H1N1 virus. The other deaths were due to comorbid conditions such as renal failure and uncontrolled sugar, but the patients may have also tested for the flu.”
 
 The public health department director admitted that around two to three people have been testing positive for the virus every day since December-end. “Around 30% of them are category C patients, or those with other comorbid conditions be it senior citizens or pregnant women,” Dr Kolandaisamy said, adding, “The H1N1 virus worsens their other problems. These patients have to ensure their sugar, blood pressure and other problems are under control.”
 
 
