NAGPUR: The   outside the RBI office at Samvidhan Chowk on Wednesday, led by former chief minster  , turned unruly when party workers tried to climb over the bank gates. This led to a lathicharge by the police, which left three Congress workers and two cops injured.

 The party leaders had been allowed to protest peacefully with around 100 workers outside the RBI office. The premises are a high security area, with limited access to outsiders, which forced cops to act when some workers started climbing the gate.
 
 Chavan and other senior Congress leaders later blocked the RBI gate demanding action against police officials who ordered the lathicharge. He was accompanied by leader of opposition in state assembly Radhakrishna Vikhe-Patil, former MP  , and sitting MLA Sunil Kedar. They dispersed after police released the three party workers detained by them.
 
 Former minister Nitin Raut stayed away from the event, hinting at infighting in the party.
 
 The protesters were demanding the resignation of RBI governor Urjit Patel. The party has also demanded Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s open apology for failure of demonetisation, ‘just like Indira Gandhi had apologized for imposing the emergency’.
 
 The party has been holding rallies against demonetisation at RBI offices across the country. The practice has been to hand over a memorandum of demands, though the Nagpur event turned violent before this could happen. 
 
 Later, addressing a press conference, Chavan alleged that Modi’s cashless drive was meant only to benefit the Chinese and American credit card companies. “Modi has ruined the entire economy just to benefit a handful of foreign businesses. If somebody wants to pay by credit or debit card let him do it, but why should there be a compulsion,” he said.
 
 The ex-CM pointed out that every cashless transaction involves payment of extra charges, “Why should a poor man pay extra,” he said. He also demanded constitution of a joint parliamentary committee (JPC) to probe demonetisation and an enquiry into Wednesday’s lathi charge.
 
 On Patel, Chavan said, “It is clear that RBI was not prepared for demonetisation. Still, Patel meekly agreed to go in for the disastrous step. Had   been RBI chief, he would have resigned rather than capitulate.”
 
 The party’s memorandum questions RBI on why it did not ask the government to first undertake a cost-benefit analysis of withdrawing 86% of the currency in circulation at one stroke. It also demanded releasing minutes of the November 8 meeting. 
 
 The party also raised the letters sent by RBI union pointing out operational mismanagement in the demonetisation affair.
 
