NAGPUR: While paediatricians are noticing growing rate of child paediatric tuberculosis (TB) patients, there is more into it. It surprises them that many of those children have never been exposed to antibiotics before.

 It was revealed on Sunday at the   on ‘Paediatric TB’ organized by   (IAP) in collaboration with Delhi-based NGO Foundation for Innovative New Diagnostics (FIND) at Chitnavis Centre, Civil Lines.
 
 Senior Paediatrician Dr B P Khonbragade said, “It means these days children are acquiring   in Multi-drug Resistant (MDR) form at the time of transmission.”
 
 He said, “While the rate of children who got MDR TB because of antibiotic dosage is seen. These MDR infection is been transferred when the children come in contact with adults who already have drug resistant TB.”
 
 He informed, most of the drug resistance in paediatric patients are found in two most popularly used drugs — Rifampicin and Isonix. While, some children are found with advance stage of drug resistance, who can resist additional drugs like, Quinolone, Amikacin, Kanamycin, Capreomycin. Such a condition is termed as extended TB resistance.
 
 IAP president Dr Nilofer Mujawar said, “Because of the Cartridge Based Nucleic Acid Amplification Test (CB NAT) we are now able to pick the MDR factor in the infection at a very early stage. We then change the entire medication strategy as soon as its detected.   and Hospital (GMCH) has two CB NATS, out of which one machine is functioning at   and Hospital.”
 
 Mujawar said, “Detection of TB in children is also a complicated task. We require sputum for the samples, while children find it hard to cough the sputum, they tend to swallow it instead.”
 
 According to her, among the TB patients in India, 5% are paediatric patients. “At the same time, children also don’t have potential to transmit TB to other children, hence adults are to be blamed. Children generally get TB from adults at their home. If a person have cough and fever for more than two weeks they should immediately be treated and treated promptly,” she said.
 
