MUMBAI: The Bombay high court has directed all schools to screen children for learning disabilities (LD) from age nine, while they are still in primary school. The order is to ensure detection of specific learning disabilities at the earliest to enable parents and teachers to take remedial steps.

 The law governing the rights of the differently abled mandates that all educational institutions should detect specific learning disabilities. "Essentially , all children should undergo the tests prescribed under the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016," said a bench of Justices V M Kanade and Anil Menon, directing schools to "promote and facilitate inclusive education" and maintain "confidentiality" of students screened for LD in its order.
 
 The HC order comes on a PIL filed by city psychiatrist Dr   , who highlighted the pitfalls associated with delayed detection of LD among school children. Dr Shetty said the   ( ) and other boards usually screen children in the ninth standard, by when the child "has undergone trauma and suffered psychologically". He said lack of awareness among schools and parents makes them punish children for failing to secure "good marks". Dr Shetty said that early detection can ensure they receive necessary assistance early to preserve their self-confidence and perform well.
 
 Special educators working with students with special needs have welcomed the HC order. "Early intervention will help at least 60% of students to cope better with academics and they might even not require a reader or writer by the time they take their board exams. It is extremely important that schools, especially teachers, are aware and inform parents so that LD students can be tested in time and remedial education provided. The current trend where most students get tested in class IX isn't healthy, "said   of Sol's ARC, a learning centre for LD children."Also, the child must not be labelled and discriminated against."
 
 Schools may depute teachers and assess a change in performance of students to identify who to screen, the HC said. But school authorities question the practicality of this and say screening may be difficult. "For most schools, doing this kind of an exercise is practically impossible because of the number of students they have and because of a lack of resources. Some schools don't have a full-time counsellor. The focus should be on making parents aware to get their wards tested. Schools can focus on providing remedial care," said  , trustee, Indian Education Society .
 
