KOLKATA: The Election Commission has primarily found gaps in the nomination paper of Bikash Bhattacharya, the Left Front candidate for the sixth Rajya Sabha seat from  , that might well lead to its cancellation.

 Even as Left leaders debated with returning officer Jayanta Koley till late Friday night, he has sent a report to the Election Commission saying the nomination is “incomplete” and has been submitted beyond the stipulated time frame. The EC will take a call on Saturday after scrutiny. 
 
 The probable cancellation of Bhattacharya’s nomination will set to rest a contest in the   from the state. Trinamool Congress candidates for the other five seats are set to make it to the Upper House unopposed.
 
 The development has sprung a surprise in Bengal political circles because it gives a walkover to Congress candidate Pradip Bhattacharya when the   central committee has decided against taking support from Congress or giving support to a Congress candidate. This is the first time a Bengal Rajya Sabha candidate has failed to submit his affidavit on time. 
 
 This has happened to Bikash, a senior lawyer of the Calcutta high court, who is well aware of electoral norms and procedure. And moreover, he was assisted by a group of experienced CPM politicians such as Rabin Deb, an electoral veteran of three decades.
 
 Bikash and his comrades had been on the assembly premises since noon on Friday, the last date for submitting nominations, hours before the deadline expired at 3pm. The senior lawyer submitted an additional document 5 minutes after 3pm to Koley, prompting the returning officer to take instructions from EC because the filing had become time-barred on technical grounds.
 
 What has surprised many is that Bikash couldn’t gather the relevant papers and file an additional affidavit within the stipulated time when he has ready infrastructure at his high court chamber a stone’s throw from the Bengal assembly compound. “We started the process late, and this is what has happened due to the late start. Preparing an affidavit isn’t an easy matter,” Bikash said, adding he was not willing to pursue the matter. 
 
 The CPM leader didn’t even turn up at the returning officer’s chamber at 8pm when Koley called him for clarification. Left Front leader in the assembly Sujan Chakrabarty represented Bikash, raising questions over his willingness to contest the polls.
 
 Trinamool politicians called it a “deliberate act”. Political observers couldn’t rule that out given the best of relations Bikash has with Congress leader Abdul Mannan. Bengal CPM leaders want the bonhomie to continue with an eye on the coming municipal polls.
 
 While CPM leader Shamik Lahiri believes it was “sheer callousness” and not a deliberate act, his party collegue and CPM central committee (CC) member Gautam Deb’s comments have fuelled speculation. “The CPM CC can’t go on disregarding the wishes of the West Bengal people. Rejecting the Bengal CPM’s proposal for a Rajya Sabha ticket to Sitaram Yechury is not done. Interestingly, the decision comes days after Left and Congress voted for   in the presidential polls,” said Deb.
 
 State Congress leader and lawyer Arunava Ghosh questioned Pradip Bhattacharya taking support from Mamata Banerjee’s Trinamool when it had forced Congress activists in Murshidabad to stay away from elections. “I want to know from Congress high command what will be the party’s stand against Congressmen who defected to Trinamool when the matter comes up for hearing in the high court on August 1,” said Ghosh.
 
