LUCKNOW:   national president and UP chief minister   launched a pointed attack on BSP supremo   on Wednesday over the law and order situation when her party was in government.

 Recounting the spate of sensational murders of government officials that rocked the state when Mayawati was CM, he said the SP government had worked to improve law and order and would take it up as a top priority if the party was voted to power again.
 
 Addressing a public meeting in Lakhimpur, Akhilesh took on the BSP for its advertisements describing the law and order situation under the SP government as grim. “They (BSP) are talking about law and order... people still remember how an engineer was murdered in Auraiya after he refused to give donations .... the engineer hailed from your district,” Akhilesh said. An executive engineer with the   (PWD) in Auraiya, Manoj Gupta, was murdered in December 2008, allegedly by sitting BSP MLA Shekhar Tewari and his aides. The slain engineer's family alleged he was killed after he refused to contribute to Mayawati’s birthday celebrations.
 
 The SP chief also took on the BSP for the murder of chief medical officers in Lucknow in broad daylight when the BSP was in government. Two CMOs were shot dead in broad daylight while a deputy CMO was found dead in a pool of blood with injuries inflicted by sharp-edged weapons inside a jail in Lucknow. The murders took place within a span of a few months.
 
 “I admit there is a need to improve the functioning of the police and this is a big task. But I’m making an effort in this direction. If any party has any better arrangement, they can come out with it,” he said, adding that the smartphones promised by his party in its manifesto would help improve the functioning of the police. Akhilesh also attacked the BJP, calling it the “jumle wali” party. “They have the expertise to mislead people by coining strange phrases which mean nothing,” he said, describing the BJP as a “chamatkari (miraculous)” party. Talking about the “achche din” promised before the   polls, he said: “They can come up with some other similar misleading phrases in the coming days.” The SP can list a series of development schemes that this government has launched but the BJP cannot, he said, adding, “This is because they have not done anything.”
 
 He also spoke at length about demonestisation and how it had hit the poor the hardest. “They have made you stand in queues outside ATMs and banks. Now the time has come when you will have to stand in line to vote and tell them how demonetisation has made our life miserable,” Akhilesh said. Taking a dig at the Centre’s promotion of yoga, he said there was an “Ulta Asana” and, in this election, people would vote in large numbers and make the BJP do the “Ulta Asana”.
 
