Having been called pleasantly plump all her life,  's wake up call was a stern warning from her doctor to immediately lose 20 kilos or risk living a life full of diseases. Here's her   from fat to fit...

 
 Garima Sarolia-Narera
  
 
  92 kilos
  
 
  30 kilos in two years
 I've been overweight for as long as I can remember. Through my school and college years, I was sometimes kindly referred to as 'pleasantly plump and cute' and at other times blatantly made fun of. Just before I turned 30, I decided to shed extra kilos. With my determination, I was able to lose 18 kilos in just three months with 3 hours of daily workout and very restrictive meals. But it all came back within a few months as both the exercise schedule and the diet plan weren't doable.
 
  
  
 
  A visit to my doctor in July 2015
 He told me to get on the scales and gave me the 'look' when I did. 'Lose 20 kilos if you want to keep disease at bay' he quipped. This opened my eyes nice and wide and I started my walk (2 kilometres to start with) the same evening and got on to a frequent meal schedule. Today twenty two months down the line, at 44, I am 30 kilos lighter and fit like I’ve never been before.
 
 
 I eat fresh and simple vegetarian food. I don't drink or smoke and strictly avoid eating out more than once a week. My typical day looks like this:
 
 12 glasses of water spaced throughout the day, 2 as soon as I wake up
 5.45 AM: A banana before morning walk 
 8 AM: Coconut water 
 10 AM: Breakfast - milk with muesli/ oats/poha/ sandwich/ I even have gond ka laddoo (mostly in winter) 
 12: An orange or Apple 
 2 PM : Lunch -2 chapatis, daal and a seasonal vegetable, curd and some salad. I cook rajma, chole or paneer at least once a week
 5 PM: Fruit (an orange/Apple/bowl of papaya/melon/watermelon) or handful of peanuts/cashews/almonds or a small cheese sandwich 
 7 PM: Dinner (Somewhat similar to lunch / soup and toast / idli sambar / Hummus with pita and salad)
 9 PM: A cup of warm milk (and a whole wheat biscuit only if I feel hungry)
 10 PM - 5.30 AM: 7 1/2 hours of sleep
 
 
 Whatever I fancy, be it a slice of cake/a small scoop of ice cream or a freshly made pathishapta (a popular Bengali sweet), but strictly in moderation. Then I make sure I burn it off!
  
 
 I walk 10000 steps a day, practice yoga after my walk, dance three days a week and strength train three days a week. Also, I make sure I remain active throughout the day. I leave my chair every 30 minutes in the middle of long working hours and take a little walk. Walking was all I did for the first 12 months and I lost gradually, only 2 kilos in the first six months. Then the pace picked up. After 18 months when I was around 72 kilos, I started yoga. When I got under 70, I started jogging (which I always thought was impossible for me!) 
 
 
 I cook all my food in 2 tbsp oil (for a family of four). Fried food is something I try and steer clear of. I eat everything but in moderation. There are days when I crave for dessert, I have a small serving.
 I eat every three to four hours and try not to eat anything 2 hours before bed time. I make sure I drink 12 glasses of water daily and get 7 1/2 hours of sound sleep. 
 
 
 Consistency is the key. There are no secrets, no shortcuts. One needs to keep at it. The more you make your body work, the fitter it gets. I started with a 2 Km walk which used to take me 30 minutes to complete. I slowly picked pace and worked it up to 10 Kms. Now, I happily jog, even sprint and participate in a high energy dance class. And enjoy all of it!
  
 
 
 Weight loss is the biggest motivation for   I say! It's one thing that keeps me inspired. And of course being able to shop in regular shopping sections rather than plus zones is a great push in the right direction. Also I keep varying my routine, do fun stuff like dancing to break the boredom. 
 
 
 Weight loss is not something one can take up and leave. 'Going on a diet' is the biggest misconception. Fitness is a lifestyle change one needs to make, for good. Clean eating and staying active is vital. I am now at my ideal weight but need toning. Will go about it slowly. For me, that's been the key- going slow and steady. 
 
 
 
 
