MUMBAI: Tanzanian Alphonce   played the waiting game to perfection. He rode through all the surges that Kenya's   threw at him and with one km to go for the finish, left him for the dead to win the   in 2:09.32. 

 The humid weather did not allow the field to set a scorching pace and at one point in the race, a 2:09 finish also did not look like a possibility. Simbu's time is the same that   clocked in 2013, which was the course record that year.
 
 Kipkorir finished 18 seconds behind Simbu to clock 2:09.50. Kenya's Eluid Barngetuny, who was seventh when the pacers went off the course at 30km mark, surged through the field to take the third spot.
 
 The pace of the race was not very hot at the start but it picked up when the runners exited the Bandra-Worli sealink. The pacers dragged the group of runners along as they crossed the half way point at little over 61 minutes. 
 
 But all action, as usual, happens when the pacers drop off and when the runners hit the Worli Sea Face for the second time. Six runners emerged in the lead and among them were Levy Matebo, Jacob Chesari, Simbu, Kipkorir and  . 
 
 It was quickly down to three as Chesari, Dida and Simbu kicked the pace and surged ahead of the others when the runners exited Worli Sea Face and headed past Poonam Chambers. 
 
 Simbu and Kipkorir then upped the pace further which saw Dida dropping off when they reached the base of the Peddar Road climb. Thereafter, Kipkorir threw several surges to shake off Simbu but the Tanzanian ran smartly, staying behind the Kenyan and avoiding the wind. When the two hit the final stretch, Simbu threw a challenge that Kipkorir was not able to respond to. 
 
 "It was a tough race with the pace changes, hills and the corners that were thrown into the course," said Simbu. "It was a challenging race but I was ready for all the challenges," said Simbu, who felt the humidity on race day and the slight headwind that the runners faced while exiting the Sea Link.
 
 Simbu said he had prepared for the race yet the challenges along the course were tough. "I have a runner from my country who has run in Mumbai. He told me to prepare for the hills and the humidity. It helped in the end. I was feeling very strong despite several pace changes," said Simbu. 
 
 Kipkorir too felt there were too many corners. "There were a lot of corners and that showed in my timing. I also missed a few water stops because the amateur runners were ahead of me and I could not see them (water stops). But this is the first time I ran 2:09 so I am happy," he said.
 
 Barngetuny, who was lying in the 7th position said he was happy to have finished on the podium. "After 30 kms I felt strong and I started passing some runners which allowed me to finish in the top three," said the Kenyan.
 
