Panaji: The government has taken some steps to stop misuse of Alvara properties. The process, to frame rules to regularise these properties in favour of the user, upon payment of a certain fee as decided by the government, has started. “This would end ambiguity over ownership title and person or his legal heir with Alvara land would be vested with absolute ownership title,” a source said. The tradition of leasing government land started during the Portuguese era when it had permitted agricultural use of parcels of land under the title of Alvara after passing a decree (no 3602) in November 1917. Later, Goa government had enacted Goa Land Revenue Code (LRC), 1968, to repeal the decree, but its content remained intact and the alvara lease mechanism continued. Subsequently, many of those properties were illegally sold or misused and the trend continues, a source said. The officer said it was also discovered that though Alvara properties were leased for cultivation process, in many cases, no such activity was carried out by the persons holding the lands. In its annual report for the year ending on March 31, 2015, the comptroller and auditor general of India (CAG) has cited a few cases of irregular sale of 11 lease-held lands involving a total area of 88.12 hectares despite a restriction on transfer of land. In five cases of lease-held lands involving 43.62 hectares, which had been reverted to the government, it has been found that these have been sold to third parties. With the government now deciding to pass on ownership rights of Alavara properties to persons holding them, the officer said it will at least stop their misuse. Otherwise, too, there is no effective mechanism in place to check illegal use of Alvara lands, he said. “If there was some mechanism or some efforts made to keep tab of Alvara properties, things would have been different,” he said. With regards to the properties already sold out, albeit illegally, the officer said a thorough investigation would reveal who are the culprits. Andre Pereira, comunidade leader, however, says the state government does not vest with any power to make any rule to the law which provided Alvara in recognition of state grant of land. “The Alvara recognises a contract with an individual to carry out job or cultivation of given parcel of land,” said Pereira. He further stated that Alvara was issued under the decree in 1917, but it stands repealed. “Where is the question of framing rules?” he said.