NAGPUR: Two days of discussions between  , president of Maharashtra Pradesh Congress Committee (MPCC), and city Congress president Vikas Thakre have failed to produce any results, and now former minister Arif Naseem Khan will decide the leader of opposition in   (NMC).

 Khan will reach Nagpur on Saturday morning and hold parleys with all 28 newly elected corporators. He will finalize the opposition leader after ascertaining their views.
 
 As of now it is not clear whether Khan will seek views of other local Congress leaders like ex-MP Vilas Muttemwar, former ministers Nitin Raut, Satish Chaturvedi and Anees Ahmed.
 
 Raut is feeling sidelined in the process of choosing the opposition leader. When TOI asked him whether he would meet Khan to put his point of view, he said, “If Khan feels that I should be consulted, then he will invite me for discussions. I will definitely meet him in that case. However, as of now things are moving in a different direction. Ashok Chavan called Vikas Thakre and   to Mumbai for discussions, but Sandip Sahare was ignored. Sahare too was leader of opposition in the past.” Sahare is a close aide of Raut and the former minister is pitching for him.
 
 Meanwhile, Muttemwar and Thakre are pitching for Tanaji Wanve, who has been out of politics for quite some time. Another corporator,  , also has the support of the two leaders. Gudadhe is one of the most eligible corporators but he does not get on well with the two. Sahare is a strict no-no for them.
 
 It is imperative for the Congress to finalize leader of opposition by Sunday morning, otherwise the party will lose its quota of three seats in NMC standing committee. As per NMC norms, only the party leader, which in the case of Congress will be the leader of opposition, can submit the names of standing committee members to the mayor. If there is a delay, the mayor will have the sole discretion to accept the names later. If the mayor does not agree to a delay in submission of names, then the three posts will remain vacant for the year 2017-18.
 
