Nagpur: Farm activist and head of Vasantrao Naik Sheti Swavlamban Mission (VNSSM)   met officials of the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) in New Delhi on Monday and made a strong case for extending the farm credit net to cover 100% farmers in Maharashtra with a five-year repayment cycle.

 Tiwari also sought a Rs 40,000-crore relief package for Maharashtra to compensate for the funds to a similar tune that would be required for the biggest farm loan waiver that the state is undertaking. He had raised the demand on Saturday at a special meeting on farm sector called by NITI Ayog.
 
 Tiwari told TOI he expressed fears that all the good work done by the state in the last three years to improve farmers’ condition could be wiped out if there was major dip in spending on agriculture.
 
 Emphasizing on credit restoration, Tiwari told officials that the present coverage of farm credit was only 20% and has to be widened to 100% on an urgent basis.
 
 VNSSM, tasked with dealing with distress in 14 farmer’s suicide-affected districts of western Vidarbha and Marathwada, has been working on an action plan for integrated farm credit policy. It proposes for a five-year credit term to cover all expenses of cultivation, children’s education, house construction and marriage of daughters of farmers.
 
 “We have given this complete plan which needs further debate and discussion. To address the agrarian crisis, what is required is an integrated approach targeting the core issues of credit, crop and cost management to provide sustainable solutions in order to improve productivity and income flow,” said Tiwari.
 
 He said VNSSM is monitoring and deeply involved in chief minister Devendra Fadnavis’ dream project ‘Jalyukt Shivar’, highlighting the importance of soil moisture.
 
 “The project involves revival of all rivers and nullahs with thr help of civil society. It has transformed into a people’s movement and is moving towards the goal of making the state drought-free in near future,” Tiwari added.
 
 
