COIMBATORE: Toilets at the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital finally got doors. Of the 200 toilets in the hospital, only 100 had doors forcing the patients and their relatives to pay and use public toilets outside. City-based NGOs and transgender   who has been working for better facilities at the hospital for the past two years have arranged for the doors. The hospital will also get 40 more beds and a bore well on its premises. These have been donated by the   headed by Mahaveer Bothra.

 Activists working at the hospital said that due to lack of doors patients and their relatives were forced to use public toilets outside which cost them Rs 5-10. Most of them are daily wage labourers and cannot afford this. And as there are no doors, women cannot use them. “Most of these doors got damaged nearly six months ago and some have been damaged for several years. I’m relieved that finally the toilets will get doors,” said a patient.
 
 When Tasleem was admitted to the CMCH 15 years ago with Jaundice, she had a horrible experience. She was not provided with a mattress and she had to use toilets that did not have doors. “I can never forget those days. I decided then that if ever I get a chance to do something, I will work to improve the facilities at this hospital. I was lucky that I got an opportunity through NGOs and activists to work here. I have been meeting several industrialists, NGOs, Rotary Clubs trying to get funds to improve the basic amenities such as toilets, beds, greenery and walls of the hospital,” she said.
 
 Tasleem has set up curtains at the Orthopedic ward, planted saplings, created lawns and green spaces, supplies food and also beds for the patients. “My aim is to make this hospital’s facilities on a par with those at private hospitals. People who visit this hospital are mostly poor but that does not mean they do not deserve better facilities. We are also working on creating awareness among the patients to maintain the sanitation of the hospital,” she said.
 
 Members of the Rotary Club of   visited wards in the hospital and handed over the doors and mattresses to the authorities.
 
