CHENNAI:   and his partymen were arrested from the   on the   after they attempted to stage a   protesting against the turn of events at the state assembly on Saturday .They were released at 9.45 pm.

 Stalin, who exited the assembly corridors with an unbuttoned shirt after he was bundled out by the watch and ward staff based on speaker P Dhanapal's orders, said he and his colleagues were manhandled by police and assembly marshals.
 
 Accompanied by a group of DMK leaders, Stalin rushed from the assembly to Raj Bhavan and met governor C   Rao and presented a memorandum.He said the speaker had evicted the DMK members to hold the voting in their absence and hence it was unconstitutional. He called upon the governor to order the postponement of the voting on the confidence motion.But the assembly went through the motion of voting.
 
 By evening, the DMK's working president had organised his partymen and sat near the Gandhi statue, as he attempted to call attention to his hunger strike attempt. However, police arrested the DMK leaders en masse and lodged them at a community centre in Mylapore.
 
 As a melee ensued, the DMK men attempted to hoist the party flag on the pole erected opposite the Gandhi statue. The pole is used only to hoist the national flag during Republic and Independence Day celebrations. But police foiled the attempt by cutting out the ropes. Traffic came to a standstill on Kamarajar Salai, Dr Radhakrishnan Salai and Santhome High Road, as the protesting legislators made a scene. There were similar protests in many cities and towns across the state.
 
 At Marina, Stalin refused to enter the police vehicle and that delayed the police from suppressing the commotion. Finally, on the request of his DMK colleague Duraimurugan, Stalin relented and boarded the bus. The police dispersed the crowd that had gathered.
 
 Earlier, Stalin said that the speaker shed “crocodile tears“ when the assembly reconvened after the first adjournment at 1pm. Stalin alleged that Dhanapal had torn his own shirt. “He deliberately tore his shirt. I told him that I regretted the incident (chaos) and would take responsibility for any wrong done knowingly or unknowingly by the DMK members,“ he said.
 
 The Kolathur MLA alleged that his party MLAs were beaten and stomped on by watch and ward staff and police personnel in the assembly. “I already have internal injuries (from an earlier incident). They beat us and tortured us,“ Stalin said. He added that the DMK legislators gave a letter to the Speaker expressing disapproval at how the confidence vote was passed.
 
 
