RANCHI: After the LED bulbs,   (JBVNL) is all set to distribute energy conserving fans and tubelights among consumers from mid-January, under the Centre's   by Affordable LEDs for All (UJALA) scheme. 

 The UJALA scheme was launched by chief minister Raghubar Das in November 2015 and within a year around 80 lakh 9 watt LED bulbs were distributed by JBVNL among 13 lakh consumers. The successful implementation of the UJALA scheme helped JBVNL bag the National   Award 2016 in December. 
 
 "The distribution of 80 lakh LED bulbs will help save 744 million units of electricity annually. Now, we are preparing to distribute LED tubelights and energy conserving fans among consumers so that the energy consumption level reduces further," said managing director of JBVNL, Rahul Purwar.
 
 The power consumption of LED tubelight to be distributed is 20 Watt against the conventional tubeslight of 50 to 60 Watt. The fans to be distributed have been rated five star by the Centre's Bureau of Energy Efficiency (BEE) and against the 80 Watt conventional fans, these fans consume 50 Watt energy.
 
 "The tubelight will help cut down the energy consumption by two-third or at least half while the fans will cut down consumption by 30%," Purwar said. 
 
 Counters will be set up at offices of JBVNL and power sub-stations where people can collect the fans and tubelights, the cost has to be decided within this week.
 
 Also, there is a plan to distributed BEE 5 star rated energy efficient pump sets among farmers of the state on highly subsidized rates under the Manjhi Scheme of Jharkhand.
 
 This apart, JBVNL plans to replace all conventional street lights across the state with LED lights under the National Street Light Programme to conserve energy. 
 
 Purwar said, "We have signed a memorandum of understanding with the urban development department for retrofitting the street lights. Out of the 41 urban local bodies (ULBs) in state, we have surveyed 11 where there is a need to replace 70,000 street lights. In all the 41 ULBs, there is a need to replace around two lakh streetlights."
 
 At present, the work of replacing streetlights have started in Deoghar and more than 2,000 lights have been replaced. The replacement work in Ranchi and Dhanbad will commence from this week.
 
 
