JALANDHAR: Jagmeet Singh, 38, who became the first turbaned Sikh Member of Provincial Parliament (MPP) of Ontario, has become federal leader of NDP and announced to officially launch his campaign to be Prime Minister of Canada. "I am officially launching my campaign to be the next Prime Minster of Canada," he told the cheering crowd in his speech moments after the result was declared on Sunday after a single roundof voting ended on Sunday. 

 By polling 35, 266 (53.6 %) votes Jagmeet registered an impressive victory over three other contenders running for party leadership. Northern Ontario MP   got 12,075 votes while Manitoba MP Niki Ashton got 11, 374 and Quebec MP Guy Caron got 6,164 votes.
 
 "We are the party that is building a better Canada. It is in us and it is in us and it is in us that you can see the future of our country, helping our country with a New Democratic government,” he told cheering party supporters.
 
 A lawyer by profession, who has been speaking up on human rights issues without mincing words, Jagmeet is also recognized for his fashion statement and style. 
 Only this year American style magazine GQ featured him with headline “The incredibly well-dressed rising star in Candian politics”. He had announced his bidding in May before a gathering at Brampton after months of speculation on the subject.
 
 Recently he won accolades with his deft handling and apt response when he was confronted by a woman with angry and Islamophobic remarks. 
 
 Jagmeet eloquently speaks in English, French and Punjabi. He had pitched himself against MPs who had higher national profiles.
 
 Jagmeet, a second generation Sikh-Punjabi in Canada and in the past also shared his personal story recalling his childhood days that how he was bullied because he had "a funny sounding name, brown skin and long hair," but he learnt to stand up for himself.
 
 As he had launched himself for the post of party leader in May last he held that that the country and party were looking for new leadership. The MPP from Bramalea Gore Malton constituency in largest Canadian province, Ontario, had then emphasized on building an inclusive Canada. He had said that this theme motivated him to become a lawyer and then coming into public life. "That's what draws me to be your leader and that is what drives me to be your prime minister," he had said to the cheering gathering. "We must champion a politics of love to fight the politics of hate,” he said.
 
 
 
 
 In December 2013 Jagmeet was denied visa by India, He had said that he was denied visa by the Indian authorities while he was to come visit Amritsar for attending an Awards ceremony by two NGOs which selected him for Sikh of the Year Award. He had told TOI that the Indian government was apparently annoyed with him strongly raising voice of justice for victims of anti Sikh riots of November 1984."I have been propagating the issue that these were not riots between two communities but a state sponsored massacre," Jagmeet had told TOI.
 
