KOLKATA: When was the last time you got the electrical lines at your homes checked? If you live in an old house, it's time you got the lines inspected by a registered electrician. Electrical wires frayed due to ageing and overload is one of the primary causes for fire incidents,   cautioned ahead of the festive season. Between Durga Puja and Diwali, households add a variety of   and gadgets that pushes up the  .

 “Over the decades, loads in households have increased many fold. Till the 1980s, lights, fans, a refrigerator and a TV was all that got plugged in an average household. Since then, we've added washing machines, geysers, ovens ( ), air conditioners and many more electrical appliances and gadgets. Old homes with connections that were designed for lower loads are strained. Overload leads to heating of electrical wires that increases the risk of short circuit. It makes sense to, therefore, check if wires need to be replaced or load increased," said CESC vice-president (distribution services) Avijit Ghosh.
 
 Old houses in north, central and parts of south Kolkata have hundreds of houses that have dodgy electrical wiring with frayed wires and joints that are hazardous. “An inspection by a registered electrician can prevent a possible electrical fire and loss of life and property . It isn't an expensive proposition unless the wiring has to be changed, either partially or entirely," said Ghosh.
 
 Another area of concern in old homes is earthing that could have been weakened or damaged over the years. While the CESC line is earthed, the official says proper earthing can prevent an accident. Installing a miniature circuit breaker (MCB) that trips a line in case of a fault is also an insurance against mishaps.
 
 The power utility recently conducted safety camps for electricians ahead of the festive season when they are engaged by 4,060-odd community pujas in Kolkata and Howrah to do the illumination in pandals. “We want the festival to be incident free. Load management, minimising joints and proper insulation are crucial," the official said.
 
 Ghosh also advised organisers to ensure that the CESC service point is accessible to electricians but kept at a distance from pandal hoppers and suggested that buckets of sand be kept near it to combat fire in case of exigency.
 
