JAIPUR: The   monitoring the reservation demand of   ( ), which includes  , said on Thursday that the community’s quota would be safeguarded in all   by different departments.

 The sub-committee, which comprises cabinet ministers Arun Chaturvedi, Rajendra Rathore and Hem Singh Bhadana, said the government would make efforts to grant appointments to SBC candidates who have cleared the recruitment process and protect the rights of those who were at various stages of the recruitment processes.
 
 The Rajasthan high court struck down the 5% SBC quota on December 9, 2016, after which the fate of SBC candidates who were at various stages of recruitments by different departments hung in balance. The state government’s appeal against the judgment was pending before the Supreme Court.
 
 “Our government will make efforts to give appointments to the SBC candidates who have cleared written tests or who have been selected after the interviews. If required, we will give necessary directions to Rajasthan Public Service Commission, Service Selection Board and all departments in this regard,” minister Rathore said after the cabinet sub-committee meeting on Thursday.
 
 The sub-committee held a meeting with senior government officials at the Indira Gandhi Panchayati Raj Training Institute here to discuss on steps that could be taken to safeguard the SBC interests. The community, which was agitated since the high court judgment, blamed the state government for failing to take necessary legal steps, especially protecting the SBC quota under Constitution’s Schedule IX that could prevent judicial scrutiny of the reservation Act.
 
 The Rajasthan Gujjar Aarakshan Sangharsh Samiti spokesperson Himmat Singh said, “The sub-committee is actually creating more legal hurdles for SBC and doing injustice to us. The high court initially did not bar government from granting appointments to selected candidates. Decisions taken today are against the agreement reached with us on January 15. It seems the government wants Gujjars back on agitation path.” He added that the community would protest against government decision at the Dev Narayan Jayanti fair at Bayana and Dausa on February 3 and 4.
 
 Rathore, who holds the rural development and panchayati raj portfolio, however, said the state government was committed to grant 5% quota to the SBC.
 
 Social justice and empowerment department’s additional chief secretary Ashok Jain and director Ravi Jain, principal secretary (home) Deepak Upreti, secretary (home) Sudhir Kumar, principal secretary (law department) Manoj Vyas and deputy advisor (law, department of personnel) were among those who attended the meeting.
 
 
