Pranati Sinha (name changed on request), who works for a financial service company in  , takes the   Road station every day. She was witness to the stampede while on her way to work on Friday. While she did not get hurt, Pranati says she will probably take a fast train from Dadar to go back to Vasai where she lives. “Today, I had planned to come a little late to work. I was on another bridge (the middle one) when the stampede happened. It was shocking to see the crowd. There was no public address system at the station to warn incoming   and commuters of the danger or guide them. Today, I will go to Dadar and take a fast train. But what are the chances that other stations like Dadar and Bandra are in any good condition? We come from far-flung areas like Vasai and Virar, it is not possible for us to take an Uber or Ola every day to work. The train is the only means of transport for us. After the August 29 deluge, people generally panic when it rains. Since it had not rained for so many days, people were not carrying umbrellas and this added to the crowd on the foot  . Even otherwise, it takes 10-15 minutes for commuters to cross the bridge.”

 Carol Dastur (not her real name), an executive with a multinational firm which has its office in Parel, escaped as she decided to take a private taxi to work on Friday. Still shaken from what happened at Elphinstone, a station she frequents regularly, Dastur said it would take her a lot of courage to go back to the regular commute. “My body has been shivering since I heard this news. I can’t imagine going back to the same place where people have died due to this unfortunate incident. Today, I will take a private taxi back home. I live in Andheri and thus it’s not much of a problem to cab it to work. But some colleagues come from Borivli and such far-flung places. We are seriously thinking of coordinating with each other and pooling our way to work to avoid travelling by train stations with rickety bridges. It is unfortunate that while the entire Parel area has boomed overnight with 30-35 highrise office buildings, nothing has been done to improve infrastructure and expand capacities of stations. The area requires a drastic change,” said Dastur.
 
 An assistant to a senior executive of a large firm in Parel escaped as she took a day off due to a last-minute personal exigency. “My assistant is thanking her   stars as this is the bridge she takes every day around the same time. It tells us that we should not always fret about being late for some work. She called me to tell me how shaken she was and thankful that she decided to skip work. Fortunately, nobody from our office was hurt. We sent out an advisory through multiple media to check on the safety of our employees. We also sent out a team to the station in case help was required. Being a long weekend, most employees have left for their homes early today,” the executive said.
 
