NEW DELHI: State-run fuel retailers will revise   and   prices daily in five cities — Chandigarh, Udaipur, Vizag, Puducherry and Jamshedpur — from May 1 as a pilot run before a countrywide rollout to counter undercutting by private retailers.

 Till the system is in place throughout the country, public sector retailers will continue with the practice of tweaking prices on the 15th and last day of each month in all other places.
 
 Daily revision will take the sting out of price hikes as they would be in small doses — sometimes could even go unnoticed.
 
 But more than that, the move has the potential to set off a price war and bring real competition in a market 95% of which is controlled by public sector retailers. Revising prices daily will give them a chance to match private companies who have been undercutting them in a free market in times of low   prices.
 
 Politically, a daily revision will help the government sidestep the political fallout of consumer ire. Though, technically, oil companies are free to revise rates, it is common knowledge that they are “guided” by political considerations.
 
 While reductions have never been an issue, upward revisions, especially steep ones, always have the prospect of giving the opposition a stick to beat the ruling dispensation with. The idea of daily revision has been on the oil ministry’s table since 2012, first reported by TOI on June 27 that year. But state-run retailers, in a complacent market of high oil prices, subsidy and lack of competition, were loath to implement the idea, citing lack of connectivity and infrastructure in the hinterland.
 
 Oil minister  , however, sought to distance the government from the decision since petrol pricing has been free from government control since June 2010 and diesel’s from October 2014.
 
 “Daily change in prices of petroleum products is a recommendation of experts. The government has nothing to do with it... We have developed an effective model to ensure that those who can afford should not get subsidy and those who need should never be left out,” he said.
 
