CHENNAI: From quills to fountain pens to ball pens and gel pens; or typewriters to desktops to laptops — transitions to accommodate inventions have marked the evolution of the written or the printed word. And with black boards making way for smart boards in classrooms, jotting down notes too have become a passé, if not extinct.

 Eager to rush through the syllabus and save time on dictating notes, teachers in some schools in the city prefer sending notes on WhatsApp and emails. While the practice is in sync with the so-called digital age, a section of parents is worried that sending notes on WhatsApp and other similar platforms could have a negative effect on the ability of their children to write.
 
 Some parents said their children were unable to write fast. “My son is in high school and cannot write fast because he does not take class notes. This creates a problem when it comes to writing an examination because he is unable to keep up with the time,” said Dev whose child studies at a well known CBSE school in the city.
 
 Another concern raised by parents is about the aspect of handwriting itself. Recently, it was reported that   University was mulling to scrap its 800-year-old practice of handwritten exams as students were writing in illegible hands. This has been primarily attributed to their increasing reliance on laptops and tablets.
 
 Parents say tech-based notes do not guarantee better learning outcomes. “The learning should happen in a manner where students can write down or remember points that help them understand content. Notes through WhatsApp has also led to rote learning by some students,” said a parent.
 
  has come down considerably in some schools and many students prefer recording lectures or talks given in a class. This happens frequently in Cambridge and IB schools, said Malathi of Aurro Educational Services. There have been instances where students demand online notes. “Taking down notes is very helpful when it comes to organising your thoughts to remember or reproduce the content. Why do we write down a ‘To-do list’? It is for the same purpose of helping us organise and learn,” she said.
 
 Although the art of writing is becoming outdated, psychologist   said note-taking has its benefits. “Learning is better when you write because there is more focus and concentration. Also, it improves the hand-eye coordination,” he said.
 
 Malathi said there are different skills that come into play when learning occurs. “Students usually use auditory, visual and kinaesthetic skills when it comes to learning. Those who have a preference for kinaesthetic skills have a tendency to learn better when they write,” she said.
 
 
