PATNA: At a marathon meeting of the governing board of   here on Tuesday, chief minister (CM)   took officials to task for tardy progress in execution of   and student credit scheme of the state government.

 Officials present at the meeting said the CM asked secretaries of agriculture and animal husbandry departments to assess the agriculture roadmap of the state government afresh. He also instructed senior officials in education and finance departments to devise ways to remove the bottlenecks in extending educational loans to students under   scheme.
 
 “The CM was disappointed with the progress in agriculture roadmap as it has not achieved the desired targets. He said there was a need to activate the agriculture mechanism of the state in a whole new manner,” said a senior state government official present at the meeting which started at 11am and concluded at 8pm.
 
 The Nitish government had launched the 10-year agriculture roadmap (2012 to 2022) with an aim to usher in a rainbow revolution in the state. The ambitious two-phase, five-year roadmap for the fiscal years 2012 to 2017 and 2017 to 2022 was aimed at increasing food grain, fruit and vegetable production besides improving power availability and road network in rural areas. The CM asked the officials to remove bottlenecks in extending education loans under seven resolves of the state government. “During the review of the student credit card scheme, the CM was told that requirement of PAN card of the guardian of the student is acting as a deterrent for many candidates. 
 
 Nitish asked officials of education and finance departments to talk to banks to sort out the issue and open facilitation centre for issuing PAN cards to the guardians of the candidates,” the senior official said. The student credit card scheme envisages extending education loan up to Rs 4 lakh.
 
 The CM was also told that 370 applications have so far been received for start-up funds, for which a corpus of Rs 500 crore as venture capital was set aside. The meeting was attended by secretaries and principal secretaries of various departments.
 
 
