NEW DELHI: Although the   did not pronounce its verdict on the   feud over the party’s ‘cycle’ symbol on Friday, the vehement arguments presented by both sides indicate that fires within are raging fiercely. Hearing both the warring factions for over five hours, the poll panel reserved its order till Monday.

 “Even the dead and those in coma have been shown as signatories in the affidavit filed in favour of Akhilesh Yadav,” was one of many “lapses” that Samajwadi Party patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav’s lawyers cited in their argument.
 
 The Akhilesh camp is understood to have submitted affidavits running into over a lakh pages and claiming support of a majority of MPs, MLAs, MLCs and delegates who were said to be present during a convention at Lucknow that declared the Uttar Pradesh CM as SP chief. 
 
 Interestingly, Congress leader and well-known legal eagle Kapil Sibal represented Akhilesh at a time when his faction is understood to be in talks for an alliance with the party. Rajeev Dhavan also argued for Akhilesh.
 
 On the other hand, Mulayam supported his counsel as he argued that he remains party president since there is no proof of his removal. “I have not been removed so how another president can be appointed,” he said as he made no bones about his intent to retain supremacy in the party founded by him 25 years ago. 
 
 Accompanied by younger brother Shivpal -- who was removed as UP party chief by Akhilesh -- Mulayam was first to reach the commission office at 12.30 pm after which Akhilesh camp represented by Ram Gopal Yadav arrived along with Rajya Sabha MPs Naresh Agarwal, Neeraj Shekhar and state minister Abhishek Mishra. SP MLC Ashu Malik and Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Seth also accompanied Mulayam.
 
 The Akhilesh camp cited past precedents, Election Symbol Order of 1968 and provisions of the Representation of the People Act, including Section 29A, and argued that since the numbers are in favour of the CM, the symbol should go to him.
 
 However, represented by senior advocate and former Solicitor General Mohan Parasaran, a defiant Mulayam camp said there is “no vertical split in the party such as SP (Mulayam) and SP (Akhilesh) and insisted the Commission lacks jurisdiction to allocate symbol to one of the groups.
 
 The Commission has assured both the camps that a judgment would be delivered at the earliest as the process of filing nominations for the first phase of Uttar Pradesh assembly elections will begin on January 17. Moreover, the commission will also require to be ready with parties in contention to launch its own awareness campaign.
 
 
