BHOPAL: The Narmada Seva Yatra — a campaign hailed by PM   and UP CM   as the model for Ganga rejuvenation —will be the springboard for clean-up drives in other rivers of   — particularly Tapti, Son and Kshipra — by next year, chief minister   said in an exclusive interview to TOI on Monday.

 This is unique because the Madhya Pradesh government’s efforts will end up benefiting neighbouring states Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand and Bihar where the Son flows through; Gujarat where the Tapti flows; and Rajasthan, where the Kshipra meets Chambal river. “Tapti, Son and Kshipra rivers will be taken up for conservation and cleaning by next year,” Chouhan said on the sidelines of a seminar on the conservation of Narmada, a week before the 3,000-km yatra winds up.
 
 PM Modi will attend the culmination of the yatra at Amarkantak — the source of Narmada — on May 15. Thanking the PM for his support to the Narmada campaign, Chouhan said: “He is a visionary and is showing the way to the world. He always encourages us and sent over experts of the Ganga Action Plan.”
 
 Chouhan feels that the social consciousness that has been awakened by Narmada Seva Yatra is the biggest success of the campaign. “Unless people realise that Narmada is a lifeline and it isn’t right to throw even puja offerings into it, no effort will succeed. But with people’s participation, this has turned into a social movement,” said the CM, who has proved the feasibility of river linking by using Narmada’s flow to rejuvenate the river Kshipra. The Narmada Seva Yatra has turned into a vehicle for social change, dovetailing with Chouhan’s mission to rid the state of addiction. The government has banned liqusor shops within 5km of the Narmada.
 
 But like river conservation, deaddiction, too, has to come through people participation, he said. “Prohibition cannot be brought about overnight. The government will conduct awareness drives against liquor. We will close down liquor shops next year, too,” he said, explaining that it made economic sense too. “Just as river conservation has massive economic gains in terms of agriculture production, deaddiction too will improve the   and health of society because people will no longer give away half their day’s earnings in liquor shops,” he said.
 
