At only 39,   is France’s youngest President. However, that isn’t the only reason why realms have been written about him over the past few weeks. What has caught the fancy of people across the globe is the fact that his wife,  , at 64, is 25 years his senior. What makes their love story even more astonishing is that they first met when he was 15 and she was his (married) drama teacher with three children. According to reports, when Macron’s parents found out about the affair, they sent him away to complete his schooling in the hope that he would forget Brigitte. Instead, he is said to have promised to marry her one day. A promise he evidently kept. 

 After Brigitte divorced her husband in 2006, she got married to Macron in 2007 and the two have been going strong ever since, so much so that Brigitte’s children gave their blessing when he asked them for her hand in marriage. Not only do the families get along well, Brigitte’s daughter Tiphaine even worked on Macron’s presidential campaign. Despite the 25-year age gap, the Macrons have not kept their relationship low-profile. Rather, they’ve embraced it and haven’t refrained from praising each other in public. A move, political experts say, that has paid off handsomely. The Macrons aren’t alone in May-December romance, though they are an exception in political circles. Tinseltown is full of couples, who seem to have found the secret to happiness, irrespective of age... 
 
 
 2002; Age difference: 32 years
 Having been married four times before, Collins finally seems to have found happiness in her fifth husband, Gibson, who she has been married to since 15 years. In an interview, she once said, “It is my fifth marriage, and my happiest, and last. Percy is wonderful, he’s my soulmate. That doesn’t mean we don’t bicker but we are very understanding of each other.” The two have been going strong and are often seen affectionately looking at each other 
 in public. 
 
 
  2012; Age difference: 24 years
 After meeting on the set of Nowhere Boy in 2009 — a movie which Sam was directing and Aaron was starring in, the couple embarked on a whirlwind romance that was often seen with scepticism. Post their nuptials in 2012, the couple went on to have two daughters and have often spoken about how their marriage is growing from strength to strength despite the age difference. “I just feel secure and loved and safe. We have this very deep connection. We’re just in sync. I knew I wanted to be with her,” the actor once said of his wife. The couple have an agreement to take on just one project a year each so that one parent is always at home to look after the children.
 
 
 2013; Age difference: 16 years
 Although R&B star Tina Turner and German music executive Erwin Bach have been dating since 1985, they only decided to become husband and wife in 2013 when they tied the knot in an intimate ceremony in Switzerland. After her abusive first marriage to Ike Turner ended in divorce, Tina steered clear of serious relationships before finally entering into one with Bach. In 2013, she gave up her American citizenship and became a Swiss citizen, having lived there since 1994. 
 
 
 1996; Age difference: 13 years
 As one of Hollywood’s biggest stars, Jackman has often spoken fondly about his wife, Deborra-Lee, who he has been married to since 21 years. Referred to as one of Hollywood’s most rock-solid relationships, the couple met on the set of Australian TV drama Correlli, tied the knot a year later in 1996 and are parents to two adopted children, Oscar and Ava. In a TV interview, Jackman once said, “She’s the greatest thing that ever happened to me and it gets better and better. I’m kind of really grateful that I met her before anything kind of happened because everything that’s happened in my career and on screen, off screen — we’ve always done it together. I would not be a quarter of the man I am without her.” 
 
 
 
 
  2003; Age difference: nine years
 Together since 1996, Moore and film director Freundlich tied the knot in 2003 after having two children — Caleb and Liv. “You kind of think, ‘Is this going to work out?’And then what happens is the relationship progresses and these things cease to be an issue anymore,” Moore once said when asked about the age difference between the pair. The family is often spotted in New York where they reside and have rarely been hit with rumours of trouble in paradise. 
 
 
 
 
 Cheryl (33) and Liam Payne (23)
 
  10 years
 The first rumours to do the rounds that One Direction star Liam was dating Cheryl started in early 2016. After largely staying out of the limelight for most part of last year with selective public appearances, the couple welcomed a baby boy in March this year. 
 
 
 
  10 years
 Together since 2010, the singer and football star are parents to two sons — Milan and Sasha Piqué Mebarak.
 
 
 
  15 years
 
 The Oscar winning actress and her plastic surgeon husband tied the knot in 2001 and have three children together — daughter Alizeh Keshvar and twin boys, Kian and Kaiis. 
 
 
 
 
