AGRA: Following TOI’s report on rampant cheating during the  , and the administrative apathy seen at exam centres, the UP education department has ordered an inquiry into the matter. UP education board secretary Shail Yadav told TOI that she had asked senior officials to conduct an inquiry and submit a report as early as possible. 

 Meanwhile, a blame game has begun with education department officials claiming that "inadequate" security arrangements at exam centres was the main cause for rampant cheating. Cops, however, put the blame on a “deep-rooted” nexus among education board officials, private schools and the copying mafia.
 
 Talking to TOI, district education officer, Mathura, Indra Prakash Singh said section 144 of CrPC (prohibitory orders) is in force around exam centres to ensure only bona fide candidates, with valid roll numbers, are allowed inside and there is no gathering of people outside the centres. He said the cops were not enforcing prohibitory orders and were allowing "all kinds of people" not only in the vicinity of exam centres but inside too.
 
 The official claimed that people “with no authority” were threatening college and school officials. He said failure of the administration and police to maintain proper security was the main reason behind successful operations of the copying mafia. 
 
 The DEO said deputy CM Dinesh Sharma had directed all SSPs and DMs, via video-conferencing on Thursday, to ensure proper security at exam centres. Principal secretary (secondary education) Jitendra Kumar told TOI that clear instructions of “zero tolerance” to copying have been issued to all UP board officials.
 
 Mathura SSP   said four policemen have been posted at each of the 194 exam centres in the district. He said the job of the policemen is to ensure law and order and not stop cheating. "That is the work of the education department and if they file any complaint, we will register an FIR,” he said.
 
 Claiming that it was the nexus between the copying mafia and officials of the education department as well as school administrations which helped the cheating mafia thrive, a senior police official said, “Someone should ask the education board why 90% of their centres are in rural areas.” He said it becomes difficult to send additional forces in time to these centres in remote areas.
 
 UP education board secretary said senior officials had been asked to conduct an inquiry and submit a report as early as possible.
 
