BENGALURU: He joined as a   with the   in 1987 and now is an   with the   in  .

 Mahesh J’s sounds like a success story but   allege that he’s made the cut with the help of the “right connections”.
 
 RTI activists have found from their queries that Mahesh’s promotion is illegal and could have been facilitated with a little help from his connections.
 
 Mahesh joined as the crematorium operator after having completed an ITI Electrical course. He was promoted as a junior engineer in 1996. Though there were efforts to see that his promotion was withdrawn as it was illegal, Mahesh managed to hang on to his post as the state government cleared his name for promotion in 2006-07.
 
 Activist Basavaraju S, who has been following this case, has now lodged a complaint with the chief secretary.
 
 “After joining the city corporation, Mahesh managed to develop links with political leaders as he belongs to an influential community. When an engineer was retiring in 1995, he made efforts to get a promotion as junior engineer though he was not eligible for the post,” Basavaraju said.
 “In 1996, Mahesh was given a promotion as junior engineer. But the promotion became controversial as he only has an ITI qualification. The issue reached the technical department which was asked to check whether an ITI holder can be given promotion as an engineer. The technical education wing said clearly that ITI and diploma engineering are two different things and persons with ITI certificate cannot be given an engineer’s post,” he added.
 
 Basavaraju said that in November 2000, the urban development secretary ordered the corporation commissioner to withdraw his promotion and send him back as crematorium operator. The order was duly followed.
 
 Basavaraju has collected documents under RTI from various departments that mention that giving a promotion to a crematorium operator and making him an executive engineer is
 
 illegal. The activist had previously complained to the urban development department too.
 
 “After he was removed, Mahesh used his political connections and he also approached the court. The court directed that his take too has to be considered and only then a decision must be taken on the promotion,” Basavaraju said.
 
 According to him, Mahesh then requested the state government to give his promotions back. “Letters from MLAs start coming to the chief minister’s office. MLA C S Puttaraju, Krishna, a former MLA and then the speaker wrote letters on behalf of Mahesh addressing the then chief minister H D Kumaraswamy. Around the same time, officials from the urban development department sent a letter to the technical education department asking if diploma and ITI are the same,” he said.
 
 This time too, the response was that both courses are different and diploma holders can be promoted as engineers, but not ITI holders.
 
 “However, the officials responded to this with an order of 1961 that says both the courses are equivalent. Based on this, they gave him the promotion again,” he said.
 
 The RTI activist says this was illegal as the government had revoked the order issued in 1961 by 1964. “CM Kumaraswamy wrote -- Take his name out of the file and give him the promotion,” Basavaraju claimed.
 
 Basavaraju has also got information under RTI from the technical education department that the government can appoint persons with a diploma or degree in engineering as junior engineers. Based on this, he has lodged a complaint with the government, asking it to take back his promotions.
 
 Mahesh, on his part, has approached the high court and has taken a stay on any action against him.
 
 When Bangalore Mirror contacted Mahesh, he was not forthcoming on the issue. “How can one say I have got illegal promotions? The government has given me the promotion. Why are you asking me about the issue, go and ask the people who gave me the promotion,” he said, before disconnecting the call.
 
 
