 has been reeling under a drought, with many pivotal water bodies drying up and causing drinking water problems for the city's residents. Surprisingly, though, the situation does not seem to have impacted birds, especially migratory species, which have have been flocking lakes across the city. Bird enthusiasts, who were expecting a slump in the number of sightings owing to the drought and the recent avian flu scare that forced the zoo to shut down for a month, are excited by the increased numbers of winged visitors. In fact, a one-day survey carried out by the group   recently recorded 54,000 birds across old Mysuru regions including Mandya, Mysuru and   districts.
 
  Avid birder  , who guided the group, says, “At the moment, there are very few lakes with ample water, which means that the birds will not travel across the city in search of food and remain at specific locations. This time around, we recorded 54,000 birds belonging to 221 species, including migratory birds, in a single day. The exercise was carried out by 46 members across 69 lakes. A similar exercise conducted last year recorded only 015,000 birds across 179 species. ”
  Some of the lakes that are receiving hordes of birds are Kukkarahalli Lake, Bogadi Lake, Lingambudhi Lake, Karanji Lake, Hadinaru Lake,  , Giribettada Lake, Varuna Lake, Dalavayi Lake, Undabathi Lake, Dadalli Lake and Subbrayana Lake. These lakes receive migratory birds from parts of Russia, Central Europe, Mongolia and  .
  
  
 
  
  The district administration's decision to rejuvenate water bodies like   and Hebbal Lake, under corporate social responsibility initiative, by stopping sewage water from entering these lake, is likely to entice birds to stay. Environmentalist Guru Prasad, says, “Every pond and lake has its own eco-system. Apart from releasing effluents into these water bodies what is also destroying this eco-system is rampant encroachments in and around lakes. Citizens in these areas should raise their voices against these issues.”
