NAVI MUMBAI: Revenue minister   has stayed the ongoing collection of   and issuance of notices by Panvel tehsildar office in   developed nodes like Taloja, Khanda, Kharghar, Kamothe, New Panvel and Kalamboli.

 As many as 10,000 households have been sent notices to pay   for leasehold property. Cidco had acquired agricultural land from PAPs on a freehold basis and leased them out for 60 years while holding the ownership of the land. 
 
 Cidco converted the agricultural land into non-agricultural some 30 years back but had not paid the NA tax to the state revenue department as the owner of the land. Residents have been demanding that Cidco pay the NA tax being the land owner.
 
 The residents had taken out a morcha to the tehsil office a couple of days. 
 
 BJP’s Panvel MLA Prashant Thakur on Saturday met the revenue minister and apprised him of the growing resentment against the district administration. 
 
 “The revenue minister has ordered the Raigad district administration to stop issuing notices and collection of tax till further instruction from his office. The onus is on Cidco to pay the NA tax as it is the land owner,” Thakur said.
 
 The protests have yielded results with the support of the local MLA, PWP leader Sandip Patil said. “We want the collected tax to be refunded to those who paid hitherto. We have asked the state and Cidco to make the land freehold from leasehold so that owners are entitled to pay the levy,” Patil told TOI.
 
 The minister has assured that he would soon hold a meeting with Cidco, Raigad district administration officials and the local MLA to decide if Cidco or the lease holders should pay the NA tax. 
 
 According to sources, over 10,000 people were served with new non-agricultural tax notices stating that failure to pay the tax will invite necessary action. There are more than 1 lakh families in these nodes who are about to pay the NA tax, out of which 5% have already paid the tax.
 
 The non-agricultural tax is paid to the revenue department through the tehsildar’s office and is levied on the land. Residents also have to pay a property tax levied by the municipal corporation on the building structure.
 
 The revenue minister has ordered Raigad district administration to stop issuing notices and collection of tax till further instruction from his office 
 
 
