LUCKNOW: A   broke out between   and expelled   leader   on Thursday. While Siddiqui came out with audio tapes against Mayawati, the latter returned the favour calling her former aide as a `taping blackmailer'.

 Addressing a press conference, a day after he was expelled from the party on charges of taking money from candidates and setting up illegal slaughter houses in the state, Siddiqui accused   of demanding Rs 50 crore from him. He also played audio clips of his telephonic conversation with Mayawati in which the BSP chief is heard purportedly seeking a ‘hisaab' (account) about money collected from candidates and party workers. Though the authenticity of the clips could not be ascertained, Mayawati is also heard asking Naseemuddin to get the ‘job’ done quickly.
 
 Mayawati, however, said that she had sought an explanation from Siddiqui about the money collected through party’s membership drive. “It’s nothing new…I have been saying so openly. Our party runs through donations collected from party workers,’’ she said. Mayawati also accused Siddiqui of usurping money collected from poor partymen. “I was told by my supporters that Naseemuddin had a habit of provoking people, getting their conversation taped and then blackmailing them. But I never believed them. Now I realize that my supporters were correct,'' Mayawati said. “In fact, Kanshiramji too did not like him,” she added.
 
 Siddiqui also accused Mayawati of using derogatory language against Muslims, backwards and upper caste post BSP's humiliating defeat in the UP assembly elections. “She insisted that Muslims did not vote for BSP, which is not correct. I told her that Muslims were heavily in favour of BSP until Samajwadi Party got into an alliance with the Congress. But she refused to believe,'' Siddiqui claimed. Mayawati, however, rubbished the allegation saying that she could never use bad language against any community. “In fact, after I expelled Naseemuddin from the party, we started receiving congratulatory calls from the Muslim community,” she said.
 
 Siddiqui also lashed out at BSP chief and party national general secretary Satish Chandra Mishra for conspiring to finish off the party so that no other dalit leader could rise to the level of Mayawati. “I dedicated 35 years of my life to the party but Mayawati, her brother and SC Mishra humiliated me as I objected to their wrong-doings,” Siddiqui said.
 
 In response, Mayawati questioned the veracity of Siddiqui’s claim that he had been with the party for so long time. “He claims to have been with the BSP since its formative years. But the fact is that he came in BSP in 1990 after losing Nagar Palika election in Banda. He won from Banda in 1991 on BSP ticket but lost in 1993. He thereafter never dared contest an election,” Mayawati said.
 
 Siddiqui also accused Mayawati of not allowing him to visit his ailing daughter who later died. Mayawati, however, said that she was not aware about Siddiqui’s daughter. ``All I knew that he had two sons,’’ she said.
 
 Coming in support of Mishra, Mayawati said that Siddiqui was nowhere close to the lawyer-turned-politician’s stature. ``What can be expected from a person who can get his leader’s conversation recorded. Mishraji never did so. In fact, he treated me like real sister,'' Mayawati said. She also accused Siddiqui of falsely projecting himself as ‘Number 2’ in the party after her. “He felt more insecure after I anointed by brother Anand Kumar as party vice-president,” she said.
 
 
