ROHTAK: Breaking the stereotype in conservative Haryana, a woman sarpanch in Sirsa district has   (veil), inspiring many others like her to follow suit.

 Geeta Saharan, sarpanch of Kaluwana village of Sirsa district, had decided to get rid of the veil when she was mocked by a principal of a government school while addressing students in a veil.
 
 Now, the first-time woman sarpanch Geeta, 38, no longer hides her identity behind the ‘ghunghat’ and addresses the gathering in the panchayat with her face uncovered.
 
 On Republic Day, nearly 20 women, who were felicitated by the Kaluwana panchayat for giving births to girls, showed similar grit and did not cover their faces behind the veil in front of village elders and their brothers-in-law.
 
 While the menfolk did not appreciate their move, they also did not raise voice for dropping the old custom mandatory in rural parts.
 
 “Wearing a veil is something what I have been doing ever since I got married. I saw my grandmother, mother and aunts doing it like they were born with it. Shedding the veil, which is linked with a woman’s modesty, was not so easy but I decided to go ahead with it,” said Geeta, who could not study after Class VIII.
 
 Geeta, a mother of two, said often she was tasked to address students at the Model School in Arohi village about ‘Beti Bachao Beti Padhao’ campaign and she used to address the gathering in a veil. “School principal   would mock me of what message I was transmitting to young girls about the village representatives. It hurt me a lot and I decided to come face to face with the reality,” she said.
 
 Later, she ensured the tradition to be followed by other family members also. “My brother-in-law got his bride in the village without a veil and I supported in her stand to shun the age old custom and set a new path,” she said.
 
 On her plans, Geeta said with the help of other women of the village, they were trying to make a consensus on passing a resolution to honour the family that would bring bride without covering the face.
 
 Lauding the change in the village, principal Nagpal, who hails from Dabwali, said she used to give her own example. “I am also a woman and I don’t wear any veil. What if I start teaching your village children to wear a veil,” she would tell the villagers.
 
