KOCHI: Visitors to the Kodanad camp will come across an elephant with overgrown tusks lugging heavy chains. The elongated tusks have crossed each other, making it difficult for the animal move its trunk freely . The pachyderm,   also known as  , is considered a `problem' elephant and was brought to Kodanad elephant camp after a case was registered against its owner.
It is now being fed dry leaves and drinks very little water. “The animal cannot drink water or eat freely because of tusks are restricting the trunk.Since it is a problem elephant, people are not ready to go near it. Hence it lies chained and movements have been restricted,“ alleged V K  , secretary , Heritage animal task force (HATF).
 
 Venkitachalam has sent a complaint to the Project Elephant team and the chief wildlife warden seeking intervention to ensure that the tusks are trimmed.
 
 Ever since it ran amok through the Thrissur railway station on July 17, 2010, the ownership of the elephant has been in question. “The tusks were not so big then. The photographs of him chasing people showed that his tusks were not so long. Now in the last four years, it has become big,“ he said.
 
 The elephant was brought into Kodanad elephant camp after the high court of Kerala in 2013 ordered the forest department to seize it from the illegal custody of a person who resides near   in Palakkad, he said.
 
 However, officials at the   under whose custody the animal is, said that they had already slotted a date last week for trimming the tusks. “The veterinarian from Palakkad division was scheduled to come and trim them last week but due to some inconvenience, that didn't happen. We will be scheduling another date soon,“ said NSC range officer Mohanan.
 
 He said that the animal has become cooperative and they wouldn't need any heavy sedation while trimming its tusks.
 
 “It is generally rare for animals to grow such large tusks.Whenever our officials notice such unusual growth, we immediately take steps to trim it.A letter has been sent to the chief wildlife warden seeking permission as the tusks are restricting the animal's trunk movement,“ said K J Martin Lowel, Assistant Conservator of Forest, Ernakulam.
 
