KOCHI: The   on Monday disagreed to an urgent hearing on actor Dileep’s bail plea in the actor rape case and postponed the hearing to Thursday after the prosecution sought time till Monday. 

 Dileep has contended that police arrested him solely on the basis of the statement by ‘Pulsar’ Suni alias Sunil Kumar, a notorious criminal who is the first accused in the case. He was made an accused on the basis of adverse media reports after police completed investigation in the case by filing a final report, Dileep has claimed.
 
 Further, he argues that the letter that was allegedly written by ‘Pulsar’ Suni naming him was fake and that there was a conspiracy to trap him. The letter was written by Suni’s co-prisoner Vipinlal and he later declared through media that Dileep is innocent. However, police have not conducted any inquiries in this regard, the petition said.
 
 Of the 19 incidents mentioned by police in the remand report, majority are unrelated to him, Dileep has contended. Eight of the incidents relate to his driver, staff, and other accused and the rest are not legally sustainable, the petition said while contending that the report does not satisfy the mandates of the Supreme Court regarding arrest. “Not even a suspicion can be raised against the petitioner on the materials gathered so far by the police,” the petition stated.
 
 Moreover, police have failed to conduct an inquiry regarding a conspiracy involving ‘Pulsar’ Suni and personalities from the film world while the accused was lodged at Kakkanad sub-jail. “Police have not attempted to find out who was behind the conspiracy and who prompted the first accused (Suni) to come out with a new story after an initial chargesheet was laid in April,” said the petition.
 
 Stating that there is no circumstance that warrants denying him a bail, Dileep reasons in the petition that investigation is now over and there is no need for continued custody. Regarding the remaining two witnesses (the actor and Manju Warrier), the petition said, “These witnesses can never be influenced by the petitioner. Incidentally, the complainant has published a written communication that there is no personal animosity involved in the attack against her.” 
 
