NEW DELHI: The administrative   of south and east corporations have been finally been notified by the urban development department of Delhi government, almost three months after the municipal polls. However, proposals made by   in the administrative structure have not been approved.

 Important deliberative bodies, like the standing committee, can’t be constituted without the notification of new zones.
 
 While east and south corporations, who had proposed minor changes, will now go ahead and constitute their committees, north corporation mayor,  , and commissioner Praveen Gupta met lieutenant governor   on Wednesday and asked him to intervene in the clearance of the file for notification of wards zone-wise.
 
 Agarwal argued that the proposal was made to balance the area among zones for better functioning and making the boundaries justifiable. “Delhi government is playing politics. The proposal was rejected on flimsy grounds. If the file regarding notification of zone boundaries is not cleared within a week, then we will be compelled to take the matter to court,” she said.
 
 North corporation has been arguing that after delimitation, a few assembly constituencies are now divided between two zones. “Bawana constituency’s wards fall both in Narela and Rohini zones. Similarly, Karol Bagh constituency has wards in Karol Bagh and Sadar Paharganj zones. This has created an anomaly,” Agarwal said.
 
 The mayor argued that unless the proposed changes are approved, the distribution of wards across zones will remain skewed. “Narela and Rohini zones have become unmanageable by one zonal deputy commissioner and supporting staff. It is necessary to restructure these two zones and form a third one for efficient governance,” said Agarwal.
 
 The corporation had proposed creation of Keshavpuram zone. “Utmost care was taken while making the proposal so that no additional financial burden is incurred by the corporation. A merger of City and Sadar Paharganj zones was also suggested so that surplus staff could be utilised,” the mayor said.
 
 The three corporations are divided into 12 administrative zones. North corporation comprises six.
 
