GURUGRAM: Since Epicentre was put out to pasture (temporarily, hopefully), it isn’t that Gurgaonites have been starved of cultural nourishment. The Gurgaon Utsav, a three-day festival of performing arts that marks five years in 2017, continues to be embraced warmly by city folk, while spring this year has been notable for the full-throated passion of visiting qawwals. 

 Now, the final weekend of March promises a treat for lovers of dance. As part of ongoing celebrations to mark Haryana’s golden jubilee,   is bringing  , a festival of classical and folk dance, to the city. Madhav is founder and artistic director of Nritya Dhara, the organisers of this two-day fest, alongside the Municipal Corporation of Gurgaon.
 
 The Utsav will feature the Odissi, Gotipua,  ,   forms.   is a traditional, and fascinatingly gender-bending, style of dance from Odisha, one that predates   (‘goti’ means one, and ‘pua’ is boy, in Odia). “Gotipua is the precursor to Odissi,” explains Madhav. “What would happen is that boys would dress up as girls and perform outside the temples.”
 
 This is how Gotipua continues to be performed to this day, a dance that’s as popular abroad as it is in India. “I want to show the audience in Gurgaon from where Odissi has come from, how it has grown and evolved.”
 
 Presenting this dance form will be the Dasabhuja Gotipua troupe, hailing from the village of Raghurajpur, a wonderful treasure trove of Odishan heritage which is also the cradle of Gotipua. Meanwhile, Madhav and her group will be performing Bhajami Vindhyavasini on the first day. A Gurgaon resident for nine years, she has more than 35 years’ experience in Odissi, and has been teaching Odissi for 20 years.
 
 While Gurgaonites are no strangers to dance recitals, this marks the first time the city is hosting a mélange of classical dance forms in a multi-day festival. “I thought, let me bring this to Gurgaon and popularise all the classical dance forms here.”
 
 It’s a wonderful endeavour that promises to, in Madhav’s own words, give Gurgaonites a “feast for the eyes”. 
 
 The Gurgaon Kala Utsav is being held on March 25 and 26, at the open air theatre in Sector 29. There will be Haryanvi folk music and dance, and a Kathakali recital by International Centre for Kathakali, besides performances by Sanjib Bhattacharya (Manipuri), Monalisa Subhadarsini (Odissi) and Meenu Thakur (Kuchipudi).
 
