BENGALURU: An impatient great dane rubbed noses with a wiry Mudhol hound, shaggy Tibetan mastiffs drooled comfortably, a Siberian husky looked cucumber-cool despite the heat, bull dogs looked around mournfully and a gentle St Bernard panted placidly as excited kids patted it gingerly. An American cocker spaniel looked sophisticated while an American bully looked like it had just stepped out of a cartoon.

 Exotic birds, fish, cats and dogs...The first day of the 4th annual Bengaluru Pet Show was every animal lover's delight. However on Saturday, canines were the showstoppers. An adoption drive to help strays find homes is also part of the show. An initiative of the Bengaluru Opts to Adopt Drive (BOTA), the aim is to promote native dogs.
 
 “Many dogs need homes and this is one platform where they can find families,“Anjana Rakesh, who came to sell sheltered puppies, said.
 
 “This year, our focus is on Indian breeds. The show has seven native breeds-Kanni, Chippiparai, Kombai, Rampur hound, Mudhol, Rajapalyam and gaddi. We had only Mudhol last year. The city is gaining the status of a pet city with increasing number of people choosing pets who also act as friends, stressbusters and teachers. This is a great platform for pet lovers,“ said M Satya Narayan, event director of Blue and White.
 
 Around 40 types of dogs including seven native breeds and 30 types of birds from  , Australia, nea pigs, fluffy cats and rabbits were also featured. On Sunday, a Feline International Convention and Cat Competition will be held. Sathish S, president of the Indian Dog Breeders' Association and owner of  , said: “My dogs have been participating in contests across the country,“ said Sathish who has over 150 dogs, including the Korean dosa mastiff and the Alaskan malamute, each cost over Rs 1crore.
 
 
 
 C V Franklin, director of Argos Protection and Fetch Canine Training School, held a demo with `protection' dogs. He showed how efficiently a trained dog could protect a little girl from two massive 'thugs'.
 
 “We do corporate protection and Netherlands, China, Indonesia, Tasmania and   along with domestic birds like Brahma fowls, Silkie fowls and   chicken were on display. Fish, gui “We do corporate protection and introduced women's personal protection dogs. After the New Year incident in Bengaluru when a girl was molested, we started training both owners and dogs for eight months.The dog can be a family dog as well as a protection dog,“ he said.
 
 --Anindita Rao and Rakshita Reddy
 
