 says she has found contentment, which eludes the best of us. Happily away from Bollywood’s rat race, she believes that there are enough opportunities for everyone to achieve their dreams. Currently, she is busy with the promotions of her upcoming film  , in which she plays a sex worker. In an exclusive chat with BT, the actress talks about films, her friendship with Bani J and much more. Excerpts...

 
 
 Vidya did not recommend me; the director, Srijit (Mukherji) sir, already had my name in his mind when he conceptualised the character of Rubina. However, when the casting started, they were not able to reach me for some reason, and started looking for someone else. One day, Vidya and Srijit sir got talking about Rubina’s character and many actresses’ names came up. When Srijit mentioned my name, Vidya took it on herself to get me on board. So, I am extremely thankful to Vidya, a powerful and talented actress, for believing in my work and rooting for me. Rubina is Begum Jaan’s (Vidya’s character) loyalist in the film and I would love to share a similar relationship with her in real life as well. I am totally in awe of her. 
 
 
 
 No. A good filmmaker knows what he wants from his actors and that’s one of the reasons I chose this film. I lived my character throughout the shoot. There’s a scene where a man assaults me, and I let him actually slap me, pull my hair and kick me. I wanted to do complete justice to the role.
 
 
 
 I am waiting for a filmmaker to sit back and notice my work. I am hoping that someone will say, ‘Hey! We must give Gauahar her due, she has never got it’. Having said that, Sreejit sir gave me Begum Jaan and that speaks enough for my talent. I am also waiting to do masala movies and want   to do a film with me. 
 
 
 
 I think you should ask the actor who feels so. Personally, I don’t feel fingers need to be pointed at people for the choices they make. This is my journey and no one has forced me to mingle with someone to get work. I am happy with the work I am doing and fully represent the kind of choices I have made. I will wait for good roles and it’s quite satisfying to get work after word about your good work spreads through good people. 
 
 
 
 Bani and I are not friends, we are family. We did a reality show together and instantly connected. Since then, there has not been a single day when we haven’t spoken to each other or not known what’s happening in each other’s lives. We are more than best friends, maybe soulmates, but there is no exact term that defines our relationship. She agreed to do Bigg Boss only because I asked her to, and when her mother was here from London, I was there with them throughout. We are very different from each other, but our core values are same. It’s a case of opposites attracting each other. We both ‘get’ each other well. She knows that I will never judge her. 
 
 
 
 I share a cordial relationship with him and like his ongoing TV show. The quality of the show is really good, but then again, the content has now started becoming typical. 
 
 
 
 I have been single for the longest time now and it is getting boring (laughs).
 
  
  
 
 
