While his peers are on the defensive in the raging nepotism debate, star kid 
  offers a sobering take.

 After the release of their last film, the Shashank Khaitan-directed 'Badrinath Ki Dulhania', which is being hailed as the season's biggest blockbuster,   and 
  have diametrically opposite plans ahead. While the 24-year-old actress is set to embark on a six-month break from films, the 29-year-old actor has dived headfirst into prep for the London schedule of '  2', directed by dad  , before he leaves for the film's 40 day UK schedule next month. It will be followed by Shoojit Sircar's untitled next.
 
 "I can never take a long break, I would go crazy and drive everyone around me mad as well. I have to be doing something or the other at all times, my new house that is being built right now, I may just go downstairs and start painting the walls if I have nothing to do," admits Varun.
 
  
  
 So, no vacations after every film, like his contemporaries? "I'd love to but I've already shot a week for 'Judwaa 2' and now it's time to get back to the film. I play twins so it's important to spend time with the director and on the script. Once the sequel wraps, I plan to take some time off before I start Shoojit's film which is written by Juhi Chaturvedi and will show me in a new light," he informs.
 
 What about a recent airport sighting of him with steady date Natasha Dalal and reports of a Bangkok vacation? Varun has clarified that he was in the Thai capital to shoot for a commercial and not for 'me' time.
 
 Meanwhile, the actor is basking in the success of his last release, which, he points out, conveyed a social message without being preachy. "People seem to have liked it. It feels good when a character becomes iconic. I have been getting letters from all over the country, be it UP or  . The idea of doing a character like Badri is to make him memorable, it's one of my most special characters. Growing up, I would hear about the dowry menace and women not being treated as equals so it was exciting to get script where I could make some kind of a statement about such issues," Varun exults.
 
 But one particular scene in the film, in which Varun's character is seen being molested while Alia and her girl gang giggle at his plight before rescuing him, has met with sharp criticism from the homosexual community. "Out of 10, if two don't like something, that doesn't count as mass opinion. People who felt that way are entitled to their opinion, it's totally fine with me. It was supposed to be a funny scene and meant to portray how Badri's male ego is shattered. In '3 Idiots', there's a scene where a character confuses a Hindi word for 'balatkar' (rape). People should have been offended by that as well. We didn't mean to hurt anyone's sentiments and if we did so unknowingly, we apologise," the actor says earnestly.
 
 Varun offers up a sensible take on the much-discussed topic, said "I definitely think if you're born into the industry you get easier access but that's about it. I have never denied that, but after that, only talent and hard work sustains you. Nobody is ready to burn money just because you have a filmy lineage. Superstars in every era have come from outside the industry and that will continue to happen because cinema is nobody's birthright."
 
 Meanwhile, 
  is set to take the 'Student of the Year' franchise forward with the second installment. The first one, produced and directed by his mentor, 
 , marked Varun's debut, along with 
  and Alia's. Any tips for the new student? "Punit Malhotra is a capable director and Tiger is doing well in his career. I'm no one to give advice to anyone at this moment," he shrugs.
 
 He's topped the unprecedented acclaim of Sriram Raghavan's 'Badlapur' (2015) with four commercial projects. Is another gritty project in the pipeline? "I just want to do good films. The idea is to take the industry forward with fresh content. That's why it's important to work with directors you haven't collaborated with before. My goal has always been to do entertaining films that reach out to the entire country, that's the only plan I have," he signs off.
 
  
  
  
  
 
