NEW DELHI: The Delhi government will come out with a   bylaw for the city with provisions for imposition of spot   for people caught   or disposing waste in non-designated areas. The city will also see “night sweeping” in certain blocks to begin with to give the national capital a clean look by the time people wake up.

 These were revealed by the representatives of Delhi government during a review meeting of all nine Union Territories by Union urban development minister   on Thursday. Delhi’s urban development minister Satyendra Jain and Lt Governor Anil Baijal were present in the meeting.
 
 Sources said Delhi government representatives informed the ministry that the draft   for sanitation is under consideration of the law department and it will be notified in the next one month. “The bylaw will have provisions for levying charges for door-to-door collection of household waste. It will also spell out the responsibilities of the municipal and other agencies. They will be equally responsible for failure on their part,” said an official who was present in the meeting.
 
 Naidu has told Delhi government to use his name to implement the rule, if there is any difficulty in doing so. “He even said that he would be happy to bear the blame for such a reform move,” a government functionary said.
 
 Considering that night sweeping in cities such as Vishakhapatnam, Vijaywada and Hyderbad have brought good results, Naidu suggested similar initiative should be undertaken in the national capital. During the review it was found that only 1-2% of the safai karmacharis in Delhi are deployed during night across the city. 
 
 Baijal directed the municipal corporations to undertake night sweeping by using machines in specific areas. Later this will be extended to other parts. Night sweeping is common in most parts of the world unlike India where sweepers hit the streets after dawn. Naidu also pulled up the three municipal bodies for failing to make progress in getting their credit rating and for failure of North and East MCDs to install LED lights.
 
 “Seven Union Territories accounting for 16 urban local bodies including the three municipal corporations of Delhi will become open defecation free (ODF) by March next year,” an urban development ministry official said.
 
 During the review Delhi government officials said 6.22 lakh households in Delhi will be provided with water taps over the next two years under Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT).
 
 At present, 23.78 lakh households accounting for 58% of the total 41 lakh households have water connections and this will be increased to 73% under AMRUT.
 
 Sewerage connectivity will also be increased from the present 57% to 65% under AMRUT. Naidu requested Baijal to sort out issues related to forest and ridge lands and unauthorised colonies to ensure full coverage under water supply. South and East MCDs will become ODF by October this year while North MCD will do so by December. 
 
