Nagpur: Packets of pesticides made of combination of profenofos and cypermethrin carry a pamphlet mentioning directions on safe use of the chemical. The yellow triangle logo indicates that it is a second level poison, next only to pesticides having a red triangle printed on the packet.

 It is specifically mentioned that the user should avoid skin contact with the chemical. A protective mask, eye shield, shoes, gloves and overalls have to be worn while spraying. It says users should not eat, drink or even smoke at the time of handling the pesticides. Directions on first aid to be given in case inhalation, consumption or contact with skin is also mentioned in the papers.
 
 Dealers say even as the pamphlet is prominently placed in the packet with the instructions written inasmuch as 8 to 9 regional languages, a little attention is paid towards it. If farmers ignore it, even the dealers read out the instructions only if asked by the farmer. Similar literature is given in packets of other pesticides too.
 
 “Normally, the farmers only seek guidance on the method of preparing the solution and not the safe usage. Some farmers may be knowing the hazards but it is conveniently ignored as the job of spraying is generally given to labourers,” said a dealer at the farm inputs market near  .
 
 “The manufacturing companies during marketing campaigns in rural areas may be training the users on safe usage,” said a dealer.
 
 The formulation is made by almost every company which deals in pesticides. A source, in one of the firms, said the company sells the product through dealers. As a result there is no direct contact with farmers who are the end users. The dealers are expected to instruct them.
 
 “The farmers are rather indifferent towards the safety measures. “It’s like safety instructions given on-board a flight. Everyone gives it a deaf ear,” said  , president of Nagpur Agro Dealers’ Association.
 
 Sunil Ragit from Salot village said dealers would give them pesticides in as much amount as they want if they paid in cash. In fact, he was given the chemical on discounted rate which was much below the MRP. This shows that the dealers mislead the farmers and sell unnecessary items too to the farmers. They direct the farmers to use a particular chemical which may not be suggested by universities and institutes. “CICR does not recommend any use of any combination insecticides. But farmers are using Profex Super which is a combination of profenofos and cypermethrin,” he said.
 
 Vinod Kankirad, a farmer in Yavatmal’s   village, said, “Though the manual calls for wearing a protective gear, such items are not available in the stores selling agriculture inputs. Maybe, the state’s agriculture department could provide the material on no-profit, no-loss basis,” he said.
 
 “The mask itself is suffocating and hence nobody wears it. This year, intensity of doses had to be increased on account of the pest attack, due to which the poisoning cases have gone up,” said Nitin Khadse of   village in Yavatmal.
 
