NAGPUR: “Core   values have been incorporated in the preamble to our Constitution. However, in reality, some distortions have crept in and created challenges which erode democracy in India,” said SN Busi, retired Indian Revenue Service officer.

 Busi delivered a keynote address at the inauguration of a two-day national seminar on ‘Erosion of democracy: Challenges and solutions’ on Thursday. The seminar was jointly organized by the department of Ambedkar Thought of Nagpur University and Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Chair. Day 1 of the seminar was held at the Convocation Hall of NU while the programme on Day 2 was held at the department of Ambedkar philosophy, North Ambazari Road.
 
 Senior journalist  , vice-chancellor of NU SP Kane and professor and head of the organizing department Pradeep Aglave addressed the audience on the first day while pro-vice chancellor Pramod Yeole and registrar   presided.
 
 Busi said that the form of governance in the country, which is a combination of parliamentary democracy and state socialism, was specially designed by Ambedkar because he wanted the individual to be the basis of the Constitution. Legislature is an important organ in the state and political parties play an important role in elections, said Busi. 
 
 “Parties are expected to ensure that their candidates are blemishes. However, a large number of candidates contested or elected have serious charges of murder, rape, misappropriation of public funds, corruption, smuggling and default of bank loans,” he said. Busi gave the example of Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Aditya Nath who has a number of criminal cases against him. 
 
 Talking about the fourth estate (the press), Busi said, “The media is the eyes and ears of democratic polity which puts facts before the people to help them form an opinion. It is an absolute necessity.” He claimed that liberalization of media is necessary since the business houses still have control over the press with an agenda to attempt to influence or control the government.
 
 Kane said, “Our democracy is like a marriage procession on the streets. Some people go right, some go left. Some race ahead while others walk slowly. Ultimately, everyone moves forward as one group. We are also progressing, albeit very slowly.” 
 
 On Friday, Shriram  , professor and head of the department of political science of Dr Ambedkar Marathwada University, Aurangabad, and ML Kasare, former head of the department of economics, expressed their views on the topic. 
 
 Nikam said that the caste system in the country is detrimental to the progress of the society as a whole. “Ambedkar wanted that each individual should be treated with equal respect and dignity. However, to gain power, communities are being divided on caste lines,” he said.
 
 Kasare said, “Constitutional morality is unnatural and needs to be cultivated by gaining knowledge.” 
 
 Kasare termed the Indian democracy being practised today as superficial and ‘top dressing’. “Ancient values have been forgone in our Constitution because it is based on contemporary values which will help the nation move forward.”
 
