PUNE: A 107-acre stretch of land, owned by the   ( ), off the lush green   and forest area, may be home to the first   in the city, what is slated to transform the oft-visited spot.

 The plans and initial model images of the eco-park, christened oxygen-park, was released by sitting corporator and former deputy mayor Aba Bagul. He said that he has already put forward the plan to municipal commissioner Kunal Kumar.
 
 An artistic impression of the eco-park shows a wide range of landscaping, amphitheatres, cultural and sports facilities. 
 
 A few adventure sport facilities, such as a skateboarding ramp and a rock-climbing face, are also a part of the plan to encourage more youngsters to participate in sports. A seperate portion of the sports complex will be dedicated to women.
 
 According to architects and environment activists associated with the project, it involves minimal use of concrete. 
 
 Reviving a cricket ground in the premises will also involve little to no concrete.
 
 “Whenever one talks of refurbishing or beautifying a place, authorities usually create concrete roads and benches. However, keeping the greenery around in mind, lots of trees will be planted and there will be enough water resources at the site. A cricket ground already in the premises but we will not use concrete to relay it. Instead, we will elevate it from the ground level using mud and cover it with grass,” said corporator Bagul’s son and architect Hemant Bagul.
 
 A city-based green group has offered to donate seeds and saplings of a number of native plant species to the PMC.
 
 Green power technology has also been blended into the park’s design. Currently, the open plot is used primarily to park vehicles. After the park is commissioned, developers claim the parking space itself will provide electricity for the eco-park.
 
 “The parking space will be completely covered with solar panels to generate about one megawatt of power, which will provide electricity to the park. If there are any excesses, we will integrate it in the state power grid,” Hemant added.
 
 He said that they have planned enough security features, including emergency telephones, for the park.
 
 “It will be a vast park so people may have concerns about their safety but we have planned constant   surveillance. Additionally, we have made provisions for emergency phones at certain intervals in the complex, which shall be connected to control rooms run by the PMC and the police, in case visitors want to share any concerns,” he said.
 
 As per to PMC officials, the project’s size calls for a detailed report before proceeding ahead, and may take upto five years to complete.
 
 “According to primary estimates, the park will cost about Rs100-110 crore and will take around five years to complete. A detailed project report also needs to be prepared in this regard. The report will be forwarded to the commissioner and the civic body for approval. This will be possible only after March, due to the elections but that gives us adequate time to prepare,” said a senior official of the civic body’s garden department.
 
 
