After playing the baddie in ' ' and 'Force 2',   will now go into flashback mode to relive yesteryear actor  's star trek in  's second directorial, the   biopic top-lined by Nawazuddin Siddiqui. Shyam featured in many films, including  's Dillagi, H S Rawail's Patanga and  's Samadhi. He had died on the sets of 'Shabistan' in 1951.
Confirming the news, Nandita told Mirror, "As you might know, I had been looking for Shyam for a while. I needed someone who has the charm and attitude of a star, yet is gentle, humble, genuine and above all, a good actor. Tahir seems to have all these qualities, and rather naturally. Also, he resembles Shyam who was destined to be a huge star had he not fallen off the horse and died at 36."
 
  
  
 Prod her on Shyam's connect with Manto in the film and if it's a parallel lead and Nandita said, "It is a film about Manto and his friendship with Shyam was special and went through many twists and turns. So it's undoubtedly a pivotal role which impacts the story significantly."
 
 Ask her if she's had any workshop with Tahir yet and the director laughed, "I know these days workshop is the buzzword. I believe right casting is half the battle won. In a film based on real people, looking the part and having the talent to be the person takes care of much of the prep."
 
 She goes on to say that all she did was get Nawaz and Tahir together and make them explore their respective parts. "The rest I know will happen organically on the day," she asserted, adding that it was a delight to rehearse with the two actors who are both natural, funny and already comfortable with each other. "We will be doing more rehearsals once Nawaz is done shooting for ' '. I am looking forward to watching the relationship between Manto and Shyam unfold," she admitted.
 
 And when does she start shooting for the film? "Sooner than I want it to be, there is so much still to do! It is a big film, not in terms of its budget but in vision, intent and heart," she sighed.
 
 Considering that Tahir has played negative roles in the past, does Shyam's character have shades of grey too? "People are quick to label an actor, push them into boxes. I haven't seen either of the films but I saw some scenes from 'Mardaani' and Tahir was convincing. Often people confuse the actor with the character. A good actor should be able to play contrasting characters and become the part. Shyam was charming and lovable, and his grey shades are relatable, I don't see that as anything negative," said Nandita.
 
  
  
 
