SURAT: There is some good news for the migrant population travelling to their hometowns in  , Uttar Pradesh and Odisha.

 Western Railway (WR) has started the process to provide stoppage to trains, widely used for travelling towards Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Odisha, at Udhna railway station, in order to decongest Surat railway station during the peak summer season. 
 
 Member of passenger service committee (PSC), ministry of railways, Rakesh Shah had proposed stoppage to the trains bound for Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Odisha at Udhana railway station, while opposing the decision by WR to increase the rate of platform ticket at Surat railway station from April 1. The WR revised the decision to increase the platform ticket fare on March 30. 
 
 In his letter to the divisional railway manager, Shah pointed out that the increase in railway ticket is not the solution to decongest the railway platforms from unwanted people. The WR must seriously think of running Tapti Ganga Express, Bhagalpur Express, Surat-Puri Express and all trains going toward Tapti line from Udhna stations, instead of Surat. Also, the WR should consider giving stoppage to   at Udhana. 
 
 Shah stated that the   has the highest migrant population and that the city also gets floating population due to the presence of the country’s largest textile industry. The migrant population is concentrated in the areas like Limbayat, Udhna, Bhestan, Pandesara, Dindoli etc., which are close to Udhna railway station. 
 
 In the absence of stoppage of important trains towards Bihar and other locations at Udhna railway station, the migrants have to visit Surat railway station. If one passenger is travelling to Bihar, around five people would arrive to the station to drop him. Same is the case when the migrants arrive from their hometowns. 
 
 “WR’s divisional railway manager (DRM) Mukul Sinha has written stating that the WR is exploring the possibility to provide stoppage to the trains at Udhna. Sinha has also assured to remove nuisance of vendors from railway platforms,” said PSC member Shah.
 
