KOKKATA: Sports fans suffered two “losses” in as many days as   lost to   in the   on Sunday evening, less than 48 hours since   lost to   at a Bangalore ground. 

 Fans from Bengal had filled the gallery at Barabati Stadium in Bangalore, creating a home away from home for the 14-time Federation Cup champions. But since the beginning of the game, the men in blue were in control of the match. “After KKR lost, I had my hopes pinned on Mohun Bagan to cheer me up. But we were outplayed in football on Sunday, just the way we lost in cricket two days ago,” said Chironmoy Chowdhury, a fan of both Mohun Bagan and KKR.
 
 Chowdhury was among hundreds of football fans from the city who had gone to Cuttack to cheer the home team to victory. But with the result proving otherwise, they were disheartened. “I had faked the illness of my mother-in-law to manage a day off on Monday and this is what happened. I still cannot believe we lost by two goals even after we were the favourites. We had planned an overnight celebration party in advance at our hotel. Everything had to be cancelled,” rued a 35-year-old private firm employee from Jadavpur.
 
 There was heartbreak for some Bangalore residents too. “I understand my city has won, but Mohun Bagan will remain my first choice. I was rooting for the green-maroon brigade all through the match,” said Archi Bagchi, a Bagan fan living in Bangalore.
 
 Prior to the match, city fans had decked their neighbourhoods up in maroon and green at Shyambazar, Tangra, Behala and Tallah, setting up projector screens outside clubs and beside main thoroughfares.
 
 At Tangra’s Pulin Khatik Road, near Vaishali cinema, around 80 Mohun Bagan fans, faces painted green and armed with party poppers, crackers, cakes and dummy trophies, had set up a projector screen. There was jubilation and celebration even before the match, but as the game progressed, the celebrations were overtaken by signs of despair.
 
 “This was our best chance to keep aside the failure in I-league and reposition ourselves at the top club. But the loss is disheartening,” said Aritra Nandy, who skipped lunch on Sunday to make arrangements at the neighbourhood fan park.
 
