NAGPUR: Over 30,000 residents of Babulvan area in   are getting only 30 minutes of water because of the delay in the construction of an overhead water tank. 

 “The project that has remained a non-starter has seen cost escalating from Rs 5 crore to Rs 22 crore in the last five years,” said   corporator Duneshwar Pethe in the general body meeting on Monday. 
 
 Demanding the construction of an overhead tank as an early solution to the water crisis, Pethe said the 24X7   project has failed to benefit citizens. “Since 2012, when the   launched the project, only a few areas in West Nagpur have benefited. The situation has not improved in east, south and north Nagpur,” he said.
 
 Replying to Pethe, executive engineer (water works department) Sanjay Gaikwad informed the house that as funds were not released for the project, the NMC has failed to start the construction. 
 
 Supporting Pethe, ruling party leader Sandip Joshi informed the House that the civic administration should start construction of the much-needed tank. He pointed out that following protest by some residents, the NMC is not able to construct the tank. 
 
 Mayor Nanda Jichkar directed the civic administration to address the issue immediately. 
 
 Congress corporators Tanaji Wanve and Julfikar Bhutto raised the issue of contaminated water being supplied to residents in their respective wards. “Water contamination cases have been reported on a daily basis and the civic body should immediately look into the matter as it can lead to an epidemic,” said Bhutto. 
 
 Congress corporator Manoj Sangole demanded the civic administration to improve basic amenities in the city’s first Uppalwadi Industrial Estate in north Nagpur. 
 
 He informed the House that though the NMC gets a revenue of Rs 1.5 crore per annum from Uppalwadi industrialists, it has failed to provide a better road and sewerage system. Mayor asked the civic chief to resolve the issue. 
 
 Leader of opposition and Congress corporator Sanjay Mahakalkar demanded action against NMC’s officials for failing to monitor ongoing cement road works.
 
