PATNA: A social organisation,  , on Monday made a move to open a non-commercial blood bank in Patna with support from the Nitish Kumar-led state government.

 Samiti representatives on Monday met CM Kumar, requesting him to allocate a 3,000sqft space at either the   or Rajendra Nagar Hospital for the purpose. “The CM was sympathetic to our plea. He directed principal secretary (health) R K   to look into our proposal,” Samiti’s Mukesh   later told this reporter.
 
 Hissariya said a non-commercial blood bank would be of great help to the needy poor. “Our Samiti is financially capable of developing and operating such a blood bank 24X7,” he said.
 
 According to him, there are at least 39 blood banks in the state. Of them, only one — a private hospital in Patna — has an apheresis machine required for separating a donor’s blood into its various components.
 
 He said his organisation has been helping people in need of blood for nearly 15 years now. The Samiti runs a website — www.biharbloodbank.com — and a WhatsApp group as well as a Facebook page that connect blood donors or receivers and help 10 to 20 people every day. “All our members also donate blood... We organise donation camps on a regular basis,” Hissariya said.
 
 According to him, as per a government circular, blood banks have to be functional 24X7. Except  , however, other hospitals leave it to peons to manage their blood banks after the sundown, he alleged.
 
 Mahajan, who was present when the Samiti members met the CM at his  , said the government was in the process of setting up blood banks in six districts where there are no blood banks. He said the government would ensure 24X7 availability of officials in blood banks in hospitals, as suggested by the Samiti members. 
 
 Mahajan clarified rules did not allow standalone blood banks and, as such, the Samiti would have to decide on a hosipital where it would like to open its blood bank. “You will have to apply to the state drug controller and a three-member committee would see if your organisation fulfils the necessary criteria for the purpose,” he said.
 
 
