By: Rajeev KR
KOZHIKODE: Following the controversy over  's last minute cancellation of permission for a conference to be inaugurated by former Vice-President  , the varsity decided to take a hard look at the activities of its academic chairs and bring in strict guidelines to regulate their functioning.
 
 Ansari's programme was initially planned to be held at CU campus on Saturday in association with the Islamic Chair and the New Delhi-based Institute of Objective Studies. But the university on Friday cancelled permission for the programme after receiving complaint from the parent body of the Islamic Chair that National Women's Front, the women's wing of PFI, which was originally not part of the event, was collaborating with it. It has come to light that academic chairs of the varsity are increasingly being used as fronts by religious and political organizations to conduct functions under the aegis of varsity utilizing facilities including air-conditioned conference halls free-of-cost. For instance,   ( ), the student wing of the Congress party , is conducting a study camp at the varsity Chair for   on Tuesday.
 
 Following the row, the programme was shifted out and varsity authorities in cluding vice-chancellor  , stayed away from the function.
 
 K Viswanath, convenor of varsity syndicate, said a subcommittee had been constituted to prepare norms for the functioning of the chairs, said the varsity would soon put in place strict guidelines.
 
 “Most of the chairs are not functioning in line with the objectives and purpose.Instead of becoming academic and extension centres, many chairs are functioning to serve certain narrow interests,“ Viswanath said adding that recommendations to that effect would be part of the final sub-committee report.
 
 Syndicate member   said the varsity has to be more cautious in the light of the latest development.
 
 “The varsity will be held accountable for the activities of the academic chairs as vice-chancellor is the chairman of all chairs. Also, many of the chairs in the varsity have religious and political affiliations and there should be clear guidelines to ensure that the chairs are not misused by vested interests,“ he added.
 
 The varsity has nine chairs including the religiouslylinked Chair for Islamic Studies and Research, chair for Christian Studies and Research, apart from politicallyaffiliated chairs like C H Mohammed Koya Chair for developing societies and EMS Chair for Marxian Studies.
 
