MUMBAI: All eyes are set on the First Year Junior College (FYJC) merit list to be announced at 5pm today. The centralized admission process will allot   to over 2.35 lakh   applicants but many are worried that they may face stiff competition to make it to top  .

 On offer are 2.92 lakh seats in over 750 junior colleges in the Mumbai metropolitan region. While the number of seats is more than applicants, the race to get into a select few colleges makes the competition difficult. “This year, we could see a slight increase in cut-offs as top scores have increased. State board students have students with a score of 100% as well,” said Ashok Wadia, principal, Jai Hind College, Churchgate. As many as 14 applicants have a perfect 100.
 
 Most worried are students with a score of 80-90%. “I was expecting to cross the 90% mark but got only 88%. Now, many good colleges seem to be out of reach in the first list considering scores of other students. I am also unsure if I must risk waiting for a better choice in following lists as this time we do not have the option of switching colleges after we take admission at one,” said a Kalyani Ram, an Arts aspirant.
 
 This year, the education department revamped the admission process to bring in more transparency and change the software agency handling the system. Principals are worried about how the admission process will turn out this time. “The entire process has undergone a change and most of us are unaware about what to expect. The first phase had many glitches so we are worried about the second phase too. The department has delayed the process by several days and hopefully has addressed all problems as otherwise it could create panic among students,” said a principal. The technical glitches have delayed the new academic year by more than five days already.
 
 But education department officials assured that the admission process will ensure all students get a seat. “If students have filled in application forms realistically, they will definitely get a college of their choice. The systems are being tested to ensure there are no technical glitches so we can expect no further delay in completing the process,” said an official.
 
 
 
 
 Mumbai: Pune-based NGO, SYSCOM, which has been monitoring the centralized admission process, has claimed that the government has not declared fees for aided seats and colleges, flouting norms. “In the admission booklet, the government has not written fees to be charged for the aided seats this year. The colleges are charging students almost Rs7,000-10,000, which is illegal,” said SYSCOM’s Vaishali Bafna. 
 
 But deputy director of education B B Chavan said junior colleges have to follow the old fee structure. “Fees have been set decades back and have not been revised. The junior colleges cannot overcharge students,” he said.
 
