Close on the heels of the just-concluded National Road Safety Week, the   has decided to launch its own   from January 17 to 24. Statistics released by the department shows that there has been a steady, if marginal, decrease in the number of   in the past three years. In 2014, Hyderabad City (excluding Cyberabad) recorded 2585 accidents. Data collected up to November 2016 shows that the number has dropped to 2271 accidents. 
“Our mission now is to reduce the number of accidents by at least 15%,” says DCP Traffic, 
 AV Ranganath.
 have a need for speed? watch out! cops are setting up over 200 cctv cameras to keep an eye on you
  “Our records prove that 80-90% of accidents are because of drunken driving or over speeding,” shares N Divyacharan Rao, ADCP Traffic, LB Nagar. Speaking of how they plan to bring errant speedsters to book, Rao says, “we will soon introduce Intelligent Traffic Management System (IMTS). around 200 close circuit cameras will be installed at busy junctions in the city. these cameras will calculate the average time taken by a vehicle to travel between two junctions. if the vehicle goes faster than the average time, an automatic ticket/fine will be issued on the vehicle’s registration number. This works better than speed guns that work well only during day time,” says Rao, adding, “The fight against drunken driving will also continue on a war footing. Last year, we recorded the highest number of prison sentences served to offenders as well as the highest amount collected as fine from drunken drivers.”
 
 like to zip around without a helmet? get ready to shell out a hefty rs 2000 as fine 
 The enforcement of the on-again-off-again helmet rule in Hyderabad will be much more stringent henceforth. DCP Traffic, AV Ranganath, says, a nation-wide helmet rule is in the offing and it will pinch rule-breakers much harder. “The central government is soon going to implement a blanket ban on riding without helmets across the country. The time the fines will go up to `2,000. That will be more of a deterrent than the present `200 fine that’s slapped for not wearing helmets.” 
 
 pedestrians rejoice. your safety is top priority for the traffic cops
 Considering the high number of pedestrian deaths in the city, pedestrian crossings and medians are going to be major focus areas for city traffic cops. With the metro rail work in progress, the already non-existent footpath have doubled up as roads for bikers and small cars. admitting that nothing much can be done about footpaths until the metro rail work is completed in 2018, Ranganath says, “It’s a step by step process. As long as the metro work is on, there will always be realigning of road and the boundaries to allow the work to happen. So for now, we will increase focus on all pedestrian crossings, especially those near hospitals, school and busy intersections, and ensure that our personnel are there to control traffic flow and help pedestrians cross safely. We will also install pelican signals.”
 
 
