PUNE: Rajesh Kulhal, a grocer from Sukhsagarnagar has approached two private banks to install point of sale ( ) machines. However, both banks have kept him waiting and the grocer, who was keen to switch over to cashless transactions, has had to accept cash payments or conduct business on credit.

 “Customers prefer the swipe machine but banks do not have them. I had started using e-wallet services but I had to discontinue it because the limit on transactions was inconvenient. Now, I let my customers take grocery on credit,” said Kulhal.
 
 Kulhal isn’t alone. N Chowdhury of Mataji Department stores in Kondhwa had opened an account with a nationalized bank in the area last month. However, despite regular follow-up with the bank, he has not received a swipe machine. “We waited for a month and eventually we have gone back to cash transactions,” said Chowdhury.
 
 Procuring PoS machines has become a major challenge for retailers and other merchant establishments as banks have not been able to provide machines due to a large demand.
 
 “Banks have a waiting period of one or two months and there is a certain procedure to be followed so retailers are facing issues,” a bank official stated.
 
 Secretary of   Mahendra Pitaliya said that 90% traders in the city are struggling to get the machines from banks. “As a federation, we have approached many banks but the process is taking time,” he said. 
 
  A representative of the Pune Electrical Market Association, Hemant Shah said that the process is very cumbersome and banks are seeking a number of documents, which is delaying the process. “We give documents while opening accounts with the banks but they ask for another set of documents to secure card readers,” he stated.
 
 Shah further added that traders prefer to wait for PoS machines as large transactions can be safely carried out since they are linked to the bank. At the same time, traders have one grouse pertaining to the service charge, which they say is too high and extends from 1.5% to 3% in case of some cards. “We demand that the service charge should be 0.5% so that all traders can switch over to the machines,” he said. Shah added that members of his association had collectively demanded 25,000 machines from a nationalized bank but they have been waiting for over a month now.
 
 Officials in the banking sector said the demand for   has increased and banks are currently focusing on bulk customers like Indian Railways (ticket booking), oil marketing companies, Agriculture Produce Market Committees and government departments.
 
