SHIMLA: Issue of promoting three IPS officers to the rank of DGP by the Congress government in   in November last year has reached before   and Union home ministry. RTI activist Dev Ashish Bhattacharya has termed the promotions illegal in his complaint and has demanded to quash them and withdraw all financial benefits of the   from the three officers.

 Congress government, on the recommendation of the screening committee, had promoted ADGP Prithvi Raj Singh, a 1987 batch IPS officer, joint director of Intelligence Bureau Headquarter New Delhi T K Deka, a 1988 batch IPS officer and ADGP B N S Negi, a 1988 batch IPS officer, to the post of DGP on regular basis in November 2016.
 
 File notings received under RTI have revealed that Himachal is having only one sanctioned post of DGP and one ex-cadre post of DGP totalling only two posts of DGP. When the process to promote above three IPS officers was being initiated, the state already had three DGPs then.
 
 Information provided by public information officer-cum-section officer of state home department revealed that the proposed officers had not completed the 30 years of essential service which was one of the requirements for promotion as DGP as mentioned in the guidelines of ministry of home affairs as well as IPS Pay Rules of 2016. 
 
 While Prithvi Raj was to complete 30 years of service on December 31 last year, Negi was to retire on November 30 last year with total service of 28 years and 11 days. It was also mentioned in the file that relaxations were given for promotion as DGP in the past but this time there is no vacancy available.
 
 RTI information further revealed that DGP Himachal Pradesh vide letter dated October 21 last year had stated that matter was examined by the police establishment committee that had recommended the promotion of above three IPS officers. Screening committee that met on November 29 last year under the chairmanship of chief secretary V C Pharka found all three IPS officers fit for promotion.
 
 In his complaint, now Bhattacharya has alleged that none of these three officers were eligible to be promoted as per the MHA guidelines of 1999 and IPS Pay Rules 2016. He said through memorandum of consideration and proceedings of the meeting, the irregularities in the said promotions were brought into the notice of the screening committee. However, the committee ignored all advice of the junior officers.
 
 He said as on November 30 last year, this action of the government created six posts of DGPs in HP against the two sanctioned posts, thus creating further financial burden on the state. He has requested to initiate action against the members of the screening committee for overlooking and ignoring the lawful advice given to them through file notings by their juniors.
 
 
