KOCHI: With just a month left for completing the plan-fund projects, the   has been lagging behind all the corporations in the state. At a review meeting held in Thiruvananthapuram recently, it has come to the fore that the corporation has spent only 19% of the total allocation so far. 

 The plan fund spending of civic bodies has been down during the fiscal due to various reasons like transfer of officials and elections to the state legislative assembly. However, they were able to improve their spending in the past couple of months. 
 
 Last month, Kochi Corporation was at the fourth position among the corporations in the state in spending their plan funds. But when the other local bodies expedited implementation of projects, the Kochi Corporation failed to keep pace. "While reviewing the project implementation, the state government look at only plan-fund projects. Had it considered the maintenance fund projects as well, we could have improved our position," deputy mayor   told TOI. "We will be able to improve our status in the coming days," he added.
 
 According to councillors from the opposition, lack of proper action on the part of   led to the current situation. The corporation had received Rs 130 crore as plan fund allocation. Later, the state government allotted an additional of Rs 18 crore. 
 
 Following the review meeting on plan funds spending held in Thiruvananthapuram, deputy mayor T J Vinod convened an urgent meeting of officials and councillors to discuss measures to expedite the implementation of the projects. "We will have to scrap many projects. The implementation of several of them, especially those for the marginalized and SC/ST, have slowed down. For instance, take the case of the project to provide laptops to 50 SC/SC PG students. The corporation authorities have been able to identify only three beneficiaries. Similar has been the fate of the project to provide housing aid for SC/ST families," said C K Peter, councillor of the Kochi Corporation.
 
 Even while deputy mayor gave instructions to explore all means to expedite project implementation, the corporation officials have been a divided lot. The files have been moving at a slow pace, due to various reasons. 
 
 The cold war between officials and corporation authorities being one among them. This has hit the progress of the implementation of various projects. 
 
 "Around 800 files have been pending with the secretary. We don't know the reason for the delay," an corporation official said.
 
 
