RAJKOT: On Tuesday,   skipper   admitted that his team had played 'boring cricket' this entire season. On Day Four of their five-day   semifinal against Mumbai, being played at the Saurashtra Cricket Association ground, here, Tamil Nadu had no choice but to play attacking cricket.

 For, when play began on Wednesday, Tamil Nadu first had to wipe off a 101-run first innings deficit and then put on sufficient runs on the board to make Mumbai bat again.
 
 When the umpires called it a day, Mumbai's openers had survived five overs after Tamil Nadu had declared at 356-6, setting the champions a 251run target for an outright win. Tamil Nadu were also penalised five runs because their middle-order batsman   ran on dangerous areas of the wicket. Those five runs were added to Mumbai's total and subsequently, Mumbai's lead swelled to 106.
 
 Mukund and Ganga Raju began proceedings and no sooner had the two settled down, their intent was clear. Both batsmen went for their shots and accumulated runs at almost four runs an over. The openers added 64 runs before Raju was trapped in front of the wicket by Mumbai pacer Balwinder Singh Sandhu. Baba Indrajith, who normally plays as a middle-order batsman, was promoted to the number three position. Indrajith also wasted no time in settling down and began to keep pace with Mukund.
 
 That the Mumbai pacemen were way off the mark also aided Indrajith's aggressive intent. Both Mukund and Indrajith scored centuries amid a 185-run partnership which ended when the left-handed batsman finally edged one in the slips to debutant Prithvi Shaw off Akshay Girap.
 
 Not that it stopped Indrajith who continued to score freely. The 22year-old also saw the dismissals of   (24) and Shankar (24) before finally holing out to Siddhesh Lad off Shardul Thakur for a well-made 169-ball 138. The departure of his twin brother Baba Aparajith prompted Tamil Nadu to declare their innings in order to keep alive their final hopes through the outright-win route.
 
 Mumbai had five runs on the board at stumps with Shaw batting on 2, with Waghela for company on 3.
 
