AURANGABAD: A section of stakeholders has sought intervention from the government in lowering the cost of  .

 While the practice of organ donations has been gradually picking up, stakeholders believe that it would be apt for the government to step in and produce a more conducive atmosphere to save more lives. 
 
 Sudhir Kulkarni, president of   (ZTCC), Aurangabad said that measures in the form of providing state-sponsored air ambulance for transporting organs could bring down the cost of transplant procedures. The ZTCC looks after cadaver organ transplants.
 
 “Logistic arrangements, mainly air-transportation adds heavily to overall cost of organ transplant surgeries. The government could mull starting regional level air-ambulances that would be dedicated to organ transportations alone,” he said.
 
 Health professionals said that the cost for the first heart transplant performed in the city on February 1 came down by almost 50% as logistics involving transportation was not needed. This was because the donor and recipient were operated in a city hospital itself.
 
 While the charges of charted flights made available by private firms during intercity organ transplant could not be ascertained, doctors involved in such surgeries said that it sometimes goes up to Rs 1 lakh per hour.
 
 Among other measures, experts have recommended the inclusion of different types of organ transplant surgeries into the existing or new national health schemes. “For instance, kidney transplant is already in the list of medical procedures covered under the Rajiv Gandhi Jeevandayee Arogya Yojana that extends health benefits to weaker sections. Similarly, liver and heart transplants can be made an integral part of government health scheme,” the ZTCC president said.
 
 In the case of renal transplant surgery, the upper ceiling for renal transplant is higher and can go up to Rs 2.5 lakh as compared to other surgeries.
 
 Senior cardiologist Anand Deodhar said that bringing an official cap on prices of medicines required during the post-operative phase in case of transplant patients can also help bring down the cost of transplant surgeries.
 
 “The medication post-transplant surgeries especially those required as a part of immunosuppressive therapy can be brought under the purview of the Drug Prices Control Order, 2013. Such a move will bring down the cost of transplant surgeries considerably,” he said.
 
 Unmesh Takalkar, CIIGMA Hospital director, said that wherever the heart transplantation took place increasing the network of non-transplant organ retrieval centres could also help reduce expenditure.
 
 “A strong network of non-transplant organ retrieval centres will eliminate logistics involving transportation of organs. The government should ensure necessary clearances should be given to fresh proposals for such centres,” he said.
 
 Another ZTCC official said that state-run hospitals can also play a crucial role in making   affordable to the common man. “The costs incurred towards retrieval of organs are borne by recipient patients. If the state-run hospitals come out in more numbers as non-transplant organ retrieval centres, the retrieval expenditure can be done away with considerably,” the official said.
 
 Government Medical College and Hospital, Aurangabad and Dr   Government medical college and hospital, Nanded are the only two state-run hospitals that have been certified as non-transplant organ retrieval centres.
 
 When contacted, Satish Pawar, Maharashtra Health Servies director, said that the government has holistic measures to slash prices of organ donation.
 
 “We are expediting clearances for facilitating non-transplant organ retrieval centres within the norms. We are also in talk with private air carriers for smooth and affordable transportation of retrieved organs, as option of State-run air ambulances could pose budgetary issues,” he said.
 
