AHMEDABAD: It was by punching the photograph of  , 37, that the 14-year-old   girl identified him as one of those who raped her some four months ago. Police swung into action and arrested Ansari, the owner of a bakery in Deesa, from his house.

  “Ansari is not the only one. The girl also identified three others. We are verifying the girl’s claims and could soon arrest them too,” said a senior women cell police official.
 
 Assistant commissioner of police (women’s cell) Panna Momaya said the girl kept repeating words like “bakery” and “Deesa” during counselling sessions. “Based on these words, we sent a team to Deesa to photograph some bakeries, their owners and showed them to the girl, who is now being treated at VS hospital. On seeing Vakil’s photograph, the girl grew angry and started punching the photograph,” added Momaya.
 
 This was the first indication for us. “Our team was already in Deesa. It picked up Ansari and brought him to Ahmedabad. The girl not only stated Ansari’s actions in her statement recorded under section 164 of CrPC, but also identified the accused in the test identification parade, before a magistrate,” said a senior crime branch official.
 
 According to police sources, about three months ago, Ansari found the girl alone at her house and violated her there. “The girl’s father and stepmother had gone to Patan,” said a police source.
 
 Police officials said it also came to light during the interrogation that the rape survivor was born to her father’s first wife. “Her father has children from his second marriage as well,” a police official said.
 
 The girl, who was raped and repeatedly subjected to  , and was found by Childline on December 28 and admitted to  . 
 
 “According to Civil Hospital sources, the girl escaped and was then found by Mahnoor Saiyed outside the campus. Rejected from all quarters, including by some NGOs, she was admitted to VS Hospital on January 13. She is under treatment there now,” added a senior police official.
 
 She was admitted to Civil Hospital in October 2016 too
 
 Women cell police officials said this is not the first time the girl has been admitted to hospital. “It has emerged that the girl was admitted to Civil Hospital as an “unknown” in October 2016 too. The question that arises now is – who had her admitted earlier and is he/she linked to the repeated violation of the girl,” said a crime branch official. Women cell officials said they are in touch with Civil Hospital authorities to get   footage to identify who had brought her to the hospital.
 
