SURAT/VADODARA/RAJKOT:   had a softer approach compared to rural police of south   in implementation of   if one were to look at the number of cases registered in their respective jurisdictions on December 31. A total of nine prohibition cases were registered in the   on December 31. Six people were caught drunk, two persons arrested with one bottle each of   (IMFL) worth Rs250 and one person caught with 12 litre of   worth Rs240. 

 However, in the districts of south Gujarat that come under Surat range police, a total of 292 cases were registered out of which three were registered in Surat and one in Valsad district for running a liquor den. At least 193 people were caught drunk, 40 cases registered for liquor seizure and 55 drivers arrested for drunk driving.
 
 Meanwhile, just one person was caught drunk in Rajkot city and three in the district on New Year as stricter prohibition laws seemed to have worked as an effective deterrent against liquor. Also, one person was booked for violation of the police commissioner's notification regarding loud DJ music in the city. Elsewhere in Saurashtra, 131 people were caught in an inebriated condition in Gir-Somnath district with majority of the arrests being made at the two check-posts of Diu at Ahmedpur Mandvi and Tad. At these check points, 85 people were caught drunk, police sources said. At Khambha check-post near Diu, 22 were caught drunk. In Kutch, three persons, including a municipality councillor of Mandvi were caught in a drunken state while 36 were arrested from Bhuj town. 
 
 On the other hand, the December 22 police raid in a pre-wedding ceremony at a farmhouse in Sevasi seems to have acted as a deterrent for tipplers this New Year eve. The number of cases registered under Prohibition Act in the city as well as district police was very less during the New Year eve celebrations. While the city police registered only eight cases against people found in an inebriated state, in the district only two cases were registered under the Prohibition Act. 
 
 
