CHENNAI: The appreciating   which has risen to Rs 64.54on Tuesday from Rs 67.95 on January 1, 2017 will impact exporters. Analysts say the rupee is showing strength against the   on lower greenback demand and uncertainty in global markets.

 With the sharp risein Q1, analysts expect this to cut into the profits of exporters by 150-300 bps (100 bps=1%). “Those having natural offsets such as sizeable imports, or foreign currency loans and currency hedges, would be less impacted,” said ratings agency CRISIL. This comes even as the currency composition of FCNR(B) deposits has seen the share of the dollar decline to 70% from 83% between the third and fourth-quarter of 2016. As per RBI data, overseas investors are diversifying risk and pumping in fresh deposits in the pound-sterling, euros, riyals and the yen.
 
  for instance recalls the impact of the 18-month slowdown from Dec 2014- Sept 2016 in exports. "A stronger rupee would have a negative bearing on the export oriented sectors such as IT services, pharma, textiles, automobiles and ancillaries. It could impair the improvements in exports being seen in the recent months," said the agency in a report.
 
 “Sharp appreciation of the rupee against the dollar in recent months is likely to have dented the first-quarter profitability of exporters, who source locally and have limited pricing power,” said CRISIL in a report, which said among the top-10 export sectors leather, textiles, meat, seafood and basmati rice were the most vulnerable to rupee strengthening.
 
 Foreign currency losses for these exporters assuming everything else was business as usual are estimated at 200-300 bps of net sales during the first quarter, given the 4% appreciation in the rupee. Exporters of pharmaceuticals and agrochemicals might see a lower impact at 150 bps given that their imports provide a partial natural hedge. For the gems & jewellery sector, exports largely match imports leading to minimal impact.
 
 When it comes to IT companies, CRISIL, said, “They would be the least affected given their extensive hedging; but the extent of hedge in terms of time period will determine the impact on individual companies.”
 
 Some other effects of a stronger rupee would be according to CARE ratings, "lower crude oil prices for the Indian economy. This in turn is expected to reduce the wholesale price inflation and benefit aviation sector (importer of crude oil) besides other related products. Companies having foreign denominated debt will also benefit from a stronger rupee."
 
 But NRIs sending money back home will cause for concern, as “overseas remittances will be negatively impacted as they will deliver   when converted to rupees.”
 
