COIMBATORE:   G, a school dropout, is all set to become an innovator thanks to the National Initiative for Developing and Harnessing Innovations- Promoting and Accelerating Young and Aspiring Innovations (NIDHI- PRAYAS) initiative of the department of science and technology (DST).

 Agni Devan has received Rs 2.4 lakh grant from the DST to further his research on designing a semi-automatic handloom that attempts to reduce, time and labour, and increases returns. 
 
 A resident of Mettupalayam, Agni Devan hails from a family of weavers. 
 
 “In the past few years weavers have suffered huge losses as traditional patterns of saris have faded away from market. To revive traditional patterns and to help weavers sustain, I have designed this semi-automatic machine,” said Agni Devan.
 
 The machine is at present at the designing stage, and Agni Devan will be supported by PSG College of Technology’s Science and Technology Entrepreneurial Park (PSG-STEP) to develop a commercially viable machine in three years. Like Agni Devan, 10 others have been identified have been granted funds under NIDHI-PRAYAS.
 
 A total of Rs 80 lakh has been allocated by the DST to PSG College of Technology under NIDHI-PRAYAS. On Wednesday, a sum of Rs 40 lakh was disbursed to 11 candidates who were selected by a committee of 11 members by director of National Science and Technology Entrepreneurship Development Board (NSTEDB), DST, Naveen Vasishta. 
 
 “The committee invited applications from interested candidates and 88 applications were received. After scrutiny, 22 were called for a presentation, after which 11 were selected for grants,” said the general manager of PSG-STEP, K  . Eight out of the 11 committee members were industrialists of Coimbatore.
 
 Vasishta said the NSTEDB had given thrust on ideas in the fields of agriculture, medicine, information and communications technology, energy and water.
 
 The beneficiaries range from school dropouts to PhD holders. “The projects that have been awarded the grants are in stages of research. They will be given three years to come out with a commercially viable model,” Suresh Kumar said. “We will release the grants in three parts (50%+30%+20%) which will be milestone-based,” he added.
 
 PSG College of Technology is one of the 10 institutions across the country and one of the two in   that has been selected for the NIDHI-PRAYAS scheme. The other institution from Tamil Nadu is  . The research under NIDHI-PRAYAS will be monitored by the society for innovation and entrepreneurship at IIT-Bombay.
 
 Besides NIDHI-PRAYAS, PSG College of Technology is also the only institution from Tamil Nadu (a total of 10 in the country) to have been chosen for NIDHI- entrepreneurship in residence (EIR) scheme. Under this scheme, candidates will be given Rs 30,000 per month for one year as fellowship to test the commercial viability of the ideas. 
 
 “This scheme is for people who cannot afford to quit their jobs or forgo education to test their innovations. A total of six ideas have been chosen for the fellowship out of 22 applications,” said Suresh Kumar.
 
