Nagpur: Soon city colleges will become an outpost of Regional Transport Office. The transport department has given its nod to allow colleges to conduct learner's driving licence test. City RTO Sharad Jichkar announced the initiative today as the transport commissioner’s office in Mumbai issued a circular with guidelines to all RTOs. The circular, a copy of which is with TOI, says RTOs can conduct such driving licence camps at government recognized colleges. RTO has now invited applications from such colleges. According to Jichkar, a large number of learner’s licences are issued to youngsters. The department will authorize colleges to conduct online test. “However, for a permanent licence, applicants will have to visit transport office," said Jichkar. The colleges will need computer labs with at least 10 networked computers, 2mbps internet connection and printers. In absence of computer labs, tests can also be conducted using tabs, the circular states. The institutions should conduct these tests without charging anything. They must prepare a list of students appearing for the test, verify and upload their documents and pay fees online, adds the circular. “Interested colleges should apply at RTOs in advance,” it adds. RTOs have been asked to depute motor vehicle inspectors, cashiers and other necessary staff for these camps in colleges. They have also been directed to hold these camps in maximum number of colleges. According to the Motor Vehicle Act, clearing a test about knowledge of traffic rules, signs and other things is mandatory before getting learner’s licence. At present, the test is conducted online and applicants who answer 60% questions correctly, get the licence. The licence is valid for six months and the applicants need to apply for permanent licence before its expiry. Traffic experts welcomed the new move and pointed out it will check youngsters riding vehicles without licence, besides reducing the crowds at RTOs. They were sceptical about its success owing to shortage of staff with RTO. Traffic experts demanded similar camps should also be organized at junior colleges, polytechnics and ITIs.