PUNE: A city   has ordered a   probe to   the persons behind a false civil   filed in December 2014.

 The suit, filed in the name of Syed Naifullah Hussaini of Hyderabad, claimed various reliefs on the basis of a forged MoU showing a Rs 70.11 crore deal for a 28.16 hectare land at survey number 233-A in Lohegaon.
 
 Incidentally, a special CBI court, while deciding a criminal matter in July last year, had held the land at survey no 233-A in Lohegaon to be in possession of the military by virtue of the latter’s name on the 7/12 extract.
 
 The CBI court then observed that the land is worth Rs 624.76 crore (government valuation) and the market price must be above Rs 1,000 crore. The ownership of the land is disputed in an appeal that is pending before the additional collector of Pune.
 
 An attempt was made to withdraw the civil suit in absence of Hussaini and the witness who attested the MoU. Both have been reported absconding after an FIR alleging conspiracy and forgery of the MoU was lodged in March 2015. Neither they nor their lawyers appeared before the court when summoned and this led to suspicion that Hussaini’s identity is fictitious and the suit is masterminded by some other person.
 
 In an order on March 20, additional judge of small causes court C P Jain gave three months to the Shivajinagar police to investigate and identify who filed the civil suit; who signed the vakalatnama (document appointing lawyer); who paid the Rs 3 lakh court fees and who has sworn the affidavit and declaration at the time of filing of the suit and who filed the plea for withdrawal of suit.
 
 Judge Jain said, “On receiving the report from police station, further final orders in the present application shall be taken up. Till then, final orders are deferred. The police may register an appropriate case and then proceed to investigate according to law.”
 
 In the suit, Hussaini claimed that he signed the MoU on April 15, 2014, with Camp resident Kevin A Pinto, who represented himself as the owner of the land, and even paid Rs 11 lakh token money to Pinto towards the deal. Hussaini sought directions to Pinto for implementing the MoU and executing an irrevocable power of attorney in his favour, among other reliefs.
 
 Pinto, along with a builder and a former defence estate officer of Pune, were among the five accused who were acquitted by the special CBI court of the charges of conspiracy to usurp the land by misrepresenting facts, using forged and false documents.
 
 Pinto has claimed that he inherited the land from his grandmother and father and sold the same to the builder by executing a sale deed on June 14, 1980. He also claimed that he registered the sale deed 28 years later on May 29, 2008. The builder has since been involved in an ownership dispute with the Ministry of Defence, which possesses the land.
 
 Meanwhile, on receiving the civil suit documents, Pinto lodged an FIR in March 2015 stating that Hussaini, two lawyers and the attesting witness conspired and forged the MoU as he was never a party to the so-called deal nor did he know Hussaini.
 
 In April 2015, a sessions court granted pre-arrest bail to the two lawyers named in the FIR but rejected a similar relief to the attesting witness. The Bombay High Court too rejected anticipatory bail plea of the attesting witness on June 24, 2015.
 
 Later, the attesting witness filed a writ petition for quashing of the FIR and furnished an affidavit in the high court stating that one of the lawyers named in the FIR masterminded the civil suit. The witness withdrew the writ petition on September 26, 2015. These events had led to the attempt to withdraw the suit in Hussaini’s absence.
 
 Pinto’s lawyer Milind Badade told TOI, “We had filed an objection to the withdrawal plea after which summons were issued to Hussaini but the same were returned as unserved.”
 
