JAIPUR: Already upset with the abnormal weather conditions during March and April for two consecutive years, the farmers in   and other parts of the state are jittery again.Though no abnormal conditions hinting at hail or dust storm have been witnessed so far, the farmers are praying to their local deities asking for favourable weather.

 It may be recalled that Prime Minister   had presented `Krishi Karman Award' to chief minister   adjudging Rajasthan as the highest wheat producing state for the year 2014-15. Rajasthan harvested 98.24 lakh tonnes of wheat from 33.18 lakh hectares of land in the year 2014-15.
 
 However, 2015 and 2016 were worst years for the state due to abnormal weather conditions.
 
 According to the official government sources, at least 40 farmers had commit ted suicide in 2016 following crop damage due to the abnormal rain and hailstorm in the months of March and April. Majority of the deceased were from Hadoti region covering Kota, Bundi, Jhalawar and Baran.
 
 According to the Jaipur Met office, abnormal weather conditions in 2015 and 2016 were witnessed from February onwards which continued during the months of March and April.However, this time mainly dry weather has been witnessed so far which suggests that the weather would be favourable for the farmers.
 
 Heera Lal, a farmer of Sultanpur village in Kota, has 10 bighas of land. He has sown mustard and wheat in his farm. “Last two years were pathetic for farming. Since February has been good, we hope similar weather conditions will prevail in the month of March which will witness harvest of mustard and in April wheat will be harvested,“ said Heera Lal.
 
 He added that many farmers are visiting temples regularly and praying to god that weather stays favourable this time around.
 
 In 2015, Congress president   and former prime minister Manmohan Singh too had visited the affected villages in Hadoti region, especially Dharbheeji village.
 
 As no dust storm has been witnessed in the last leg of February, which was a pattern in the last two years, the farmers are expecting a good yield of wheat this time.
 
