Kannauj: The cauldron has been on the boil, ready to turn herbs into fragrant ‘itrs’ named after heaven or even rain-soaked earth.

 At the other end of the over 100-year-old workshop, Mohd Ayaz is putting a mix of herbs in the bhabhka (a copper vessel) for winter scent Shamama, Kannauj’s typical fragrance, to be prepared for the next day. He looks up and says, “The   has come as a relief to us in the itr industry.”
 
 He explains how. “Once I was coming back from Delhi with cash that we had received as payment. After Saifai, on the highway, there lay a saree-clad woman on the road. It was a tricky situation and we decided not to stop. We turned the car into the fields; a tyre got punctured from the nails thrown in the field by robbers, but we didn’t stop. The expressway has made it safer for us when we undertake these unavoidable trips to markets in other cities with our product,” he says. 
 
 Making itr is a tedious process that involves big earthen and copperwares boiled, rolled, steamed and sun-soaked. It takes over one-and-a-half months to prepare 15 litres from one cauldron. And those connected to the industry in   believe the Lucknow-Agra expressway, along with the upcoming perfume park, will spread these fragrances far and wide. 
 
 “It took us around 10-12 hours to reach Delhi. Now the time has been cut down to just 5-6 hours so we can make not just more round trips but also a trip takes just a day,” says Mohd Alam whose family has been in the business since 1896.
 
 A number of perfumers in the area also believe that with trip time being cut, the processing can also be done in Lucknow where many of them have their outlets set up the workshops are still based in Kannauj. 
 
 “Roses are grown extensively in Hathras district. Our labourers leave the fields there with the flowers before sunrise and deliver the flowers to the processing unit in Kannauj by 10-11 am. With the travel time cut short by at least three hours, the freshness of flowers will be maintained,” explains Saif Samadi. “In the time to come, we could bring the flowers to Lucknow and process here as well,” he adds. 
 
 
