LUCKNOW: The Vidhan Bhawan witnessed an unprecedented scene on Monday with the   holding  , complete with an ‘acting’ leader of the house and a ‘Speaker’.

 Continuing with its boycott to protest against alleged unparliamentary language used by chief minister   during the ongoing  , the Opposition gathered at the Central Hall of the Vidhan Bhawan to hold the ‘House proceedings’ to condole the death of BJP MLA Mathura Prasad Pal. The Opposition once again attacked the CM for remaining absent during condolence meeting and leaving for New Delhi instead.
 
 The UP Assembly was adjourned till Wednesday after passing the obituary reference to the BJP MLA who passed away after a prolonged illness on July 22. Pal had been suffering from cancer for quite some time. He was elected on BJP ticket from Sikandara constituency of Kanpur Dehat. There would be no House on Tuesday as new President of India would be sworn in.
 
 Earlier, holding a parallel proceeding, Congress legislative party leader Ajay Kumar ‘Lallu’ played the role of the leader of the house — the chief minister — while BSP leader in the House Lalji Varma donned the role of the Speaker. Leader of Opposition, Ram Govind Chaudhary stuck to his real life role in the mock proceedings. BSP MLA Uma Shankar Singh proposed the obituary reference. 
 
 This was the third day when the Opposition continued with its boycott of the proceedings and even blamed the Leader of House for not taking any initiative to end the deadlock between the state government and the Opposition. “Till today the government has not tried to reach out to the Opposition to end the stalemate for running the House. As per media reports, the Parliamentary affairs minister has left it to the Opposition to join or boycott the House,” said BSP leader in House, Lalji Verma.
 
 Lallu slammed the CM for remaining absent from the House while it assembled to condole his own MLA’s demise. “Traditionally, the Leader of the House reads the obituary reference, but the CM was not present and it was read by parliamentary affairs minister Suresh Kumar Khanna,” Lallu said.
 
 Recalling the previous deadlocks, when BJP member Upendra Tiwari sat on a dharna during the previous regime, the then Parliamentary affairs minister Azam Khan, senior minister Shivpal Yadav and Speaker   had reached out to him to end the dharna, he said.
 
 Later, Chaudhary said that since the Opposition has decided to boycott the complete session, a parallel House was run at the Central Hall by the Opposition members. He blamed the government for gagging the voice of the Opposition.
 
