PUNE: Little has changed for India’s horticulture   despite bountiful rains in 2016. 

 While the current fiscal may translate into better harvests for horticultural crops compared to the last fiscal, as per first advanced estimates released by the agriculture ministry, but the output may still not be able to meet the target production of 300 million tonne set by the Center. 
 
 The estimates show   crop yield to grow by less than 1% this fiscal over 2015-16, despite the good monsoons last year.
 
 Country's yield of horticulture crops this fiscal is estimated to reach over 287 million tonne, a negligible   from 286 million tonne recorded in 2015-16. During normal years, the growth in India’s horticulture production is about 5% to 6%.
 
 Even as the Center mulls to increase the export of onions, production estimate for the crop showed that India's production of onions may dip to 19 million tonne this year from last year's 20 million tonne. The statistics further showed an estimated dip in the total production of vegetables in 2016-17 to 168 million tonne from the last fiscal’s 169 million tonne.
 
 A senior agriculture ministry official told TOI that the sown area under onions in the country this fiscal—for both, Kharif and Rabi seasons—dipped from 1.32 million hectare in 2015-16 to 1.18 million hectare in 2016-17. “The low prices of onions in 2016 reduced the preference for onions among farmers, with the latter reducing the sown area under onions this fiscal,” the official said.
 
 The official said that the less than 1% growth in horticulture output this fiscal is not a phenomenal growth. During normal years, the growth in India’s horticulture production is about 5% to 6%. “Though, the country had normal monsoon in 2016, some vegetable producing areas remained deficient and faced water scarcity. Some areas in north India—such as Himachal Pradesh—faced adverse climatic conditions like hailstorms, which affected the state’s production. The overall target for horticulture crop production of around 300 million tonne this fiscal has therefore not been met,” the official said.
 
 Another senior ministry official said that in 2015-16, the bumper production of onions was able to push up the total horticultural crop production, while in 2016-17, the estimated production of onions may be lesser than the previous financial year. “Hence, only negligible growth in India’s horticulture crop production is expected this fiscal. The quantity of onions produced affects the total horticulture production in a year. The yield of onions waxes and wanes each year, with one year recording a bumper harvest while the following year recording a comparatively lesser output,” the official said.
 
 States that have been estimated to contribute to the highest production of horticulture crops for 2016-17 include Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Karnataka. Fruits production too is projected to increase this year, with an estimated production of over 91 million tonne, with Andhra Pradesh and Maharashtra contributing to the highest fruit output in the country.
 
 Horticultural crops comprise of fruits, vegetables, plantation crops, flowers, spices and aromatics.
 
