GURGAON:   will install speed-breakers on the   near  , as it is worried about the increase in number of accidents along the stretch due to sharp turns and steep climbs. The objective is to keep the speed of traffic below 50 kmph, to minimise chance of accidents.

 In the last four years, 415 accidents, including 140 major ones, have been reported along this stretch. Flaw in road design and poor lighting makes this stretch prone to accidents, with vehicles driven at high speeds falling off the road into the valley on several occasions, as they failed to negotiate the curves.
 
 “We will put   on the road to reduce the speed traffic at particular spots. We hope to minimise the chances of accidents by reducing speed of vehicles,” said Huda administrator Yashpal Yadav, after inspecting the stretch. He said the department has also send a proposal for widening of the road at the curves, and to reduce the slope.
 
 A Huda official said the development authority has received several complaints from residents living along the road. “We’ll modify the road on priority basis when funds are available. We’ve already conducted the survey and sent the report to Chandigarh,” he said.
 
 The Gurgaon-Faridabad road is a major link between the two cities. Thousands of people from Faridabad and nearby areas use it to reach Gurgaon, Manesar, Dharuhera, Sohna road and NH-8, and vice-versa.
 
 “People who don’t travel frequently on the road are unaware of the steep curve and turns, which lead to accidents. On several occasions, vehicles have rolled down the hill and ended up in courtyards of residential complexes,” said Sandeep Mishra, a regular commuter.
 
 “Life is always at risk when travelling on this stretch,” said Deepak Sharma, a regular commuter on this stretch, adding a lot of people have lost their lives here. He said Huda had earlier put street-lights, but they have not been working properly for quite some time.
 
 Earlier, in October 2016, Haryana PWD minister Rao Narbir Singh had inspected the area and asked Huda officials to prepare a report on the stretch for approval of funds. “We’ll submit a proposal for widening of the road at the curve, and to reduce the slope. It’s expected to cost around Rs 3 crore,” said a senior Huda official.
 
 
