HYDERABAD: Once the   (MEA) announces   through   (HPOs), the   of Telangana circle will launch passport services at head post offices in   before February 28.

 The decision was announced by secretary of department of posts, BV Sudhakar, at the launch of the National Career Services (NCS) through post offices held at Dak Sadan here on Sunday.
 
 Speaking on the occasion, the secretary said the passport services would also be later extended to 36 head post offices in Telangana. Passport services would also be launched in Andhra Pradesh in select HPOs in Nellore, Krishna and Kurnool districts. “We have identified 56 HPOs in the country to roll out the passport services,“ he added. He also said the postal department would sign a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the Telangana agriculture department to help farmers get soil health reports. In this scheme, the postal staff would collect soil from farmers and send it to soil testing laboratories in the districts. After the labs test the soil, it would get certificates and hand it over the farmers concerned.
 
 “We will also tie up with the ministry of health sciences to collect details at village level and upload them on our portal. Also, the postal department will sign an MoU with the ministry of power to conduct a survey on the num ber of houses yet to be electrified. He said that the postal department was having a large network of over 1.55 lakh post offices across the country and the India Post Payment Bank (IPPB) would become the greatest semibanking sector in the history of banking.
 
 Earlier, Union minister of state for labour & employment Bandaru Dattatreya launched the National Career Service (NCS) and Jeevan Praman facility to EPFO pensioners through post offices and also signed an MoU with the postal department.
 
 “The NCS portal will build a bridge between the netconnected urban areas and unconnected rural areas, helping the youth to avail the facility to register for employment at their doorstep hassle-free and provide youths access to a rich repository of career content on over 3,000 occupations across 52 sectors in the NCS database.“
 
 The minister also launched Jeevan Praman facility to EPFO pensioners through post offices from Telangana.He said the EPFO pensioners could now submit their Jeevan Praman (digital life certificate) through HPOs in the country.
 
