NAGPUR: From millionaires to paupers, postgraduates to illiterates, youngsters to senior citizens — everybody is trying his or her luck in the civic elections slated for February 21.

 According to a random study of affidavits filed by candidates and available on the website of the stare  , the richest ones seem to be having a fortune of over 10 crore.
 
 Among them is Praful Gudadhe from ward no. 38 with assests worth over Rs 18.75 crores, Parineeti Fuke from ward No. 13 with total assets over Rs 21 crore, Roopa Rai from ward No. 15 declaring total assets over Rs 13 crore, Mitaram Patle from ward No. 38 having assets over Rs 7 crore and Anand Bhisikar from ward No. 3 with Rs 1.5 crore.
 
 But it is not just the neo-rich who are in fray. Also standing for elections are candidates who have declared assets as low as Rs 1,500. From ward No. 31, Jayesh Kaware has mentioned his total assets of Rs 2,000 while a couple, Avinash and Baby Kumbhalkar, contesting from the same ward have declared their assets as Rs 1,547 each. 
 
 Interestingly, the deposit amount for SC, ST, OBC and women is Rs 2,500. For candidates in the general category, the deposit amount for contesting is Rs 5,000.
 
 While many candidates are postgraduates, there are over five who have not taken any formal education. Apart from them, a large percentage of candidates have not even reached matriculation. On the other hand, there are candidates like Fuke who holds a PhD degree.
 
 Interestingly, many candidates having criminal background are also in the fray. Jagdish Lanjewar, a contestant from ward No. 25, was booked under section 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) and 325 (punishment for voluntarily causing grievous hurt).
 
 Former standing committee chairman Ramesh Shingare is also facing criminal charges under section 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property), 406 which is for criminal breach of trust, 467 for forgery of valuable security and some other sections.
 
 Among the biggies facing criminal charges are mayor Pravin Datke and former standing committee chairman Sandip Joshi. Their assets, as well as that city Congress president Vikas Thakre, run into a few crores.
 
 Ward No. 22’s candidate   is facing murder charges along with punishment for forgery, dishonesty, using forged documents and punishment for criminal intimidation.
 
 Some contestants including Mamta Bodele are facing inquiry under   (ACB).
 
 With 49 candidates, ward No. 2 seems to have the toughest competition among all 38 wards. It was followed by ward three and ward five with 45 candidates each. Wards 38 and 16 have the lowest number of candidates with 14 each. Following this, ward 32 has 16 candidates while ward 35, 36, and 37 have 20 candidates each. 
 
 Candidates as young as 25-year-old to senior citizens over 65 are fighting the battle this time. 68-year-old Gangaram Ghodeswar is contesting election from ward No 35. 25-year-old housewife Yogita Shahu from ward No. 24 seems to be the youngest candidate for now. 
 
 Affidavits of many candidates are yet to be released. 
 
