RAIPUR: Chhattisgarh chief minister   on Sunday said that demonetisation of currency has boosted the confidence of honest and patriotic people and its a major step towards a more transparent cashless economy. 

 People have now come to believe that honesty is being valued in the country and dishonest people will face the consequences, he said during the 17th episode of his monthly radio programme ' ' aired on All India Radio (AIR). 
 
 Elaborating on the efforts being made to promote cashless transactions, Singh said that 15 lakh citizens have been trained in Chhattisgarh to be a part of the state's 'Digital Army'. Moreover, 'Mor Khisa' mobile app has been launched to promote e-transactions.
 
 He said this mobile app provides five options of cashless transactions at one click. He also said that Rupay cards have been issued to 11 lakh farmers in the state to make it easier for them to opt for cashless transactions. The state government has set the target of making 12,000 ration shops and 9,000 Common Service Centres (CSCs) cashless as soon as possible. CM informed that Chhattisgarh has become the first state of the country to provide training to maximum number of people in cashless transactions. Till December 31, the state provided training to three times more number of people than given target. In every district, this training campaign is being conducted efficiently, as a result of which the number of traders and common people trained in cashless transactions are increasing with every passing day.
 
 Chief minister claimed that the gift of demonetisation has led to a decrease in interest rates on housing loans by 3-4 per cent. Banks have reduced the interest rates on old housing loans as well. He said that cashless economy is a boon for village, poor and farmers, as it will become a medium to ensure payment of full wages for their hard work without any leakages. 
 
 Chief minister mentioned in his speech about a specially-abled girl of Navagarh block in Bemetara district, Chandravali Rajpoot, who has made 2,000 people digitally literate. Nagri block of Dhamtari district has set an example, where 30 gram panchayats prefer cashless transactions. 
 
