MUMBAI:  , founder of   group of schools, and his wife Grace   got another day’s reprieve against arrest from the   on Wednesday. 

 They had moved court for a transit anticipatory bail on Monday—three days after a seven-year-old student was found murdered with his throat slit at Ryan International School in Gurgaon. Meanwhile, their son,  , has also moved high court. His plea has been tagged with his parents’ and will be heard along with theirs on Thursday now. 
 
 Pintos’ counsel, Niteen Pradhan, who sought the transit pre-arrest bail, said the intervenors against the transit bail plea had not served copies on the Pintos and hence sought an adjournment till Thursday. One of the two interventions is by Barun Thakur, father of Pradyumn, the slain child. 
 
 Justice A S Gadkari observed that a copy of Thakur’s intervention plea must be served to the Pintos, to give them a chance to respond to its contents. The court adjourned the hearing by a day with interim protection to continue.
 
 Meanwhile, Thakur’s counsel, Sushil Tekriwal, said the Pintos’ passports must be confiscated. Thakur alleged that the Pintos are “vicariously responsible” for the “diabolical, cold blooded” murder and hence want their plea dismissed.
 
 There was a second intervention application against their plea. The first one was by Gunratan Sadavarte on behalf of the  . 
 
 Ryan Pinto’s application said that he cannot be considered an accused in the murder case where even Section 25 of the Arms Act has been invoked. Ryan said he is in no way connected with St Xavier’s Education Trust, which runs Ryan International School, and that its day-to-day affairs are run by an appointed management. His plea says that he and the school management “share the pain of loss with the parents and family”.
 
 Pradhan pointed out that regional head Francis Thomas, who was arrested by Gurgaon police, had moved the Supreme Court on Wednesday alleging that he has been not represented by lawyers since the bar association there had passed a resolution to not allow any local lawyer to appear for the accused. The accused said his fundamental rights were being violated, said Pradhan, pointing out that the apex court has posted the matter for hearing on Monday. 
 
 The Pintos want temporary relief to enable them to seek a regular pre-arrest bail from a Haryana court since the case is registered there. Aruna Pai, the prosecutor, has submitted judgments which she will rely on to oppose the relief Pintos are seeking. Justice Gadkari observed that it was only a transit pre-arrest bail they were seeking and Haryana court has the jurisdiction to decide on the plea for regular anticipatory bail on merit.
 
 
