VISAKHAPATNAM: The   has come back to haunt the people of north coastal AP with almost 90 per cent of ATMs having dried up since the beginning of March.

 Nearly 50 banks including the   and Andhra Bank require at least Rs 200 crore per day to meet the demands. But sources said less than Rs 100 crore is available daily (from regular deposits and through the RBI), which is why officials are unable to load the ATM machines.
 
 Many ATMs across the region have downed the shutters temporarily, while some have just put up boards like ‘ATM is Not Working’ or ‘No Cash’.
 
 Bank officials attribute the cash shortage to less deposits by customers. Moreover, the money sent by the RBI is insufficient to pay for various government schemes like pensions and Dwcra loans. The recent posts regarding withdrawal restrictions on various social media platforms like WhatsApp and Facebook have also spread panic among the people who are scared to deposit their cash in the banks. Srikakulam district lead bank manager P Venkateswara Rao of Andhra Bank said, “The unconfirmed posts on social media that went viral indirectly played a crucial role in the cash shortage in entire Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. Many people stopped depositing their money and almost all of them withdrew money from their accounts recently.”
 
 State Bank of India deputy general manager   said, “There is no cash in the banks. We did not have cash to load in the ATMs. The available cash is being used for prioritised schemes like pensions.”
 
 Many traders have also refused to accept card payments despite instructions from the state government, said advocate Turaga Venkata Hanumantha Rao. “The government has to clarify the information being shared on social media about the new banking conditions and ensure that all traders have POS machines for hassle-free digital payments,” he said.
 
  secretary   said, “Our efforts to implement cashless transactions is still on. We are taking feedback from all people to ensure that the system is successful.” 
 
 The unconfirmed posts on social media that went viral indirectly played a crucial role in the cash shortage in AP and Telangana. Many people stopped depositing money and almost all withdrew from their accounts recently
 
