BENGALURU: Cases of   leading to fatal cardiac failure are on the rise, say city based cardiologists, who advise people to give up habits such as smoking and drinking as soon as they can.

 “Heavy smoking and drinking, stress, obesity, junk and fried foods, and lack of sleep and exercise are the main causes of cardiac failure. This is a major concern for a developing country such as India. In the US, cases of cardiac arrest have come down by 30% in the last two decades, while in India it has gone up by 30%," says Dr Devananda NS, chairman and head of cardiac surgery department at Manipal Hospitals.
 
 Not seeking treatment on time, doctors feel, could be the major cause behind the diseases of the circulatory system turning fatal. Dr Rajpal Singh, consultant interventional cardiologist at Fortis Hospital, says, “The major cause leading to death is not seeking appropriate treatment on time. There should be more awareness about the symptoms among patients and the need for urgent medical care."
 
 “Avoiding smoking and having moderate amounts of alcohol help, cutting on stress, regular walking and exercising, controlling hypertension and diabetes, regular health checkups help,“ says Dr Ravi Kumar VN, consultant physician at Columbia Asia Referral Hospital, Yeshwanthpur.
 
 Doctors blame low immunity for infectious diseases accounting for a high number of deaths.“The first step to overcome infections is to avoid contact with the infected person. Various vaccinations are available for diseases such as chickenpox, measles, meningitis, hepatitis A B C, H1N1 and pneumonia. Food should be prepared safely and contaminated water must be avoided. Safe sex should be practiced, which otherwise leads to contraction of fungal infections," says Dr Ravi Kumar.
 
 “Poor nourishment, population overgrowth, food & water contamination, sanitation & personal hygiene, fluctuating weather and increased dampness in the atmosphere are the other reasons for infections.Civic bodies play a vital role here," said Dr Pankaj Singhai, senior consultant, internal medicine, Manipal Hospitals.
 
