The MP   have begun and the   board exams will be starting in a day or two. Students have started dedicating all their attention to their books now. But there’s no dearth of wedding processions, festival celebrations and political functions that cause a lot of distraction and disturbance by using loud speakers. Realising the need to address this menace, the Madhya Pradesh Board of Secondary Education (MPBSE) has asked the district administration to make sure that   aren’t used near exam centres and also to curb their usage during exam time. And on their part, the district administration is ensuring prompt action against complaints.

 
 
 
 P Narhari, the district   says, “There is a routine ban on the usage of loudspeakers up to a certain decibel limit beyond 
 . But since board exams are going on, we have given strict instructions to the police to take complaints regarding the usage of loudspeakers very seriously. Students who live in areas that are near marriage halls can feel free to dial 100 for police action if loudspeakers are being used. We’ve also instructed marriage hall and garden owners not to play loud music. If political units and people continue to play loud music, their speakers will be seized.”
 
 
 
 
 Prateek Dubey, who is appearing for his class 12 board exams shares, “Recently, a marriage was taking place around walking distance from my home. And I was unable to concentrate on my studies for three days because of the sound of dhol being played. Now that I am aware about the rules regarding the use of loudspeakers, I will not hesitate to complain.” And it’s not just students who are rejoicing. Anju Vijh, who takes tuitions for school students says, “As my house is almost on the main road, the students get disturbed every time a procession or some other rally is conducted. They find it hard to concentrate because of the loud music. But I am glad that the district administration is keeping a check on this now.”
 
 
 
 While the use of loudspeakers is totally banned near exam centres during exam hours, Arun Rathore, PRO of the district administration also 
 informs us that strangers will not be allowed within a 100 metre periphery of various exam centres. “Usage of mobile phones would also be prohibited inside the campus for students and invigilators. Indian Penal Code Section 144 would be adhered to and anyone found flouting the norms would be subject to action according to IPC Section 188. These rules will be followed till 
 ,” Arun says.
 
