HYDERABAD: Bringing to the fore the simmering discontent among Muslim women on the practice of  , two women have approached the   questioning the 'triple talaq' pronounced by their husbands, both brothers Osman Qureshi and Sayyazuddin Hafeez working in the US, through a WhatsApp message. Claiming that their parents spent huge amounts on their weddings, the two women - Mehreen Noor and Syeda Hina Fathima -decried the easy way in which their husbands abandoned them through Whatsapp messages sent to their phones. “Our marriages were performed as per   and customs and any dissolution too should be done in tune with the  ,“ they said in their plea.

 One of the petitioners alleged that she withstood all the harassment at the hands of her in-laws in the hope that her husband would one day take her to the US. However, the husband, too, started harassing her continuously through phone and WhatsApp messages, she said.The second petitioner, who is mother of two daughters, too has a similar nightmare to narrate. The torments from her inlaws increased after the birth of the second girl child. They treated her cruelly rejecting her as the wife of their son after he had pronounced `triple talaq' through WhatsApp. She said that she had no knowledge regarding pronouncement of `talaq' at any point of time.
 
 While seeking police protection, the petitioners sought directions to the authorities to frame guidelines to protect innocent Muslim married women from `illegal' `triple talaq'.Further, they wanted the court to declare illegal the action of their husbands Osman Qureshi and Sayyazuddin Hafeez and in-laws. `Triple talaq' through WhatsApp and other means, that too without the knowledge of the wives, violates Article 14 and 21 of the Constitution and also the provisions of the Muslim Personal Law and the provisions of the Dissolution of Muslim Marriage Act, they said and sought directions to the qazi concerned not to issue divorce certificates to the in-laws based on WhatsApp messages.The petition was filed on Friday and is slated to come up for hearing on Monday.
 
