PUNE: The   (GST) implemented by the Narendra Modi-led government is more of an “Indian indirect tax” with different rates for various products, former finance minister   said here on Sunday.

 “You call it an Indian indirect tax or whatever, but don’t call it GST. The GST world over is a standard rate with a standard minus (for merit goods) and a standard plus (for demerit goods),” Chidambaram said, adding, “This format of standard rates is what was recommended by economist Vijay Kelkar as well as the chief economic adviser to the government Arvind Subramanian.”
 
 Merit goods include goods or services (such as education and vaccination) provided for the benefit of the society by a government. Demerit goods are those whose consumption is socially undesirable due to the perceived negative effects on the consumers themselves.
 
 He said a standard rate of 18% and a lower merit rate and a higher demerit rate would have been ideal. “In the current form, GST is a multi-rate tax,” he said. 
 
 Chidambaram said “compliance” is almost impossible under present GST as businesses have to file at least 37 returns if they are operating in one state and more if they are operating in many states. The Centre has, however, said it is a “misnomer” as people have to file only one return a month and other returns are auto-populated. 
 
 The former minister said the Union government has “stubbornly refused” the suggestion to implement GST on a trial basis. “Traders and people are opposing and the government must listen to them,” he said, adding, “It is, after all, for the people that the government collects taxes.”Chidambaram said giving powers to “anti-profiteering” authority amounts to the government’s disbelief in competition and markets. “Markets and competition will take care of any kind of price gouging…in case of businesses forming cartels, there is competition commission and consumer forum. But giving powers to revenue officials to go after traders and businesses is nothing but tax terrorism,” he said.
 
 
 
 According to various economists, there are “serious questions” about the methodology in which the central statistics office is calculating growth rates, Chindambaram said while quoting an economist that if one goes by the old system of calculating growth, the current growth rate would be between 5% and 5.5%. “This 7% plus growth rate has not created any jobs in the last three years,” he said.
 
 
 
 
 Talking about loan waiver, the former minister said he disagrees with several economists that loans should not be waived for farmers and that it sets a “bad precedent.”
 
 “The top 12 group companies owe Rs 2,53,000 crore to the banking system. At conservative estimates, 60% of these loans will be written off by the banks. If waiving farmer loans (of smaller ticket size) is bad, then writing off loans of big corporates is bad too,” he said.
 
 Chidambaram said that the present government is responsible for the plight of the farmers as it did not raise the minimum support price reasonably in the first two years.
 
