KAPURTHALA/HOSHIARPUR: In probably first such case in recent times, recovery of   — a regulated drug used to   — has led to arrest of an   who used to run a  . The arrest came after the opioid drug was seized from a woman on Thursday. She got it from the doctor and was going to supply these capsules to her husband lodged in the Kapurthala central jail, police said.

 Police have also arrested the woman and a security guard of a private agency who was deployed at the jail, along with BAMS doctor Devinder Singh, who ran Mata Amar Kaur Memorial Hospital in Khudda village of Hoshiarpur district.
 
 Buprenorphine is a drug of choice for treating addicts of opium and its derivatives. But it could be abused also by unscrupulous elements.
 
 Following the arrest of Devinder, a team of health department officials visited the de-addiction centre and found that it was a licensed facility and has even engaged a psychiatrist. The officials are going to recommend cancellation its license.
 
 Kapurthala SSP Sandeep Sharma said they had received information that one Pooja was supplying narcotics. She was arrested on April 6 on a tip off, and 150 capsules of buprenorphine recovered from her.
 
 “When questioned, she said that her husband Dalbir Singh was undergoing sentence in Kapurthala jail after he was arrested under the NDPS Act in December 2013 registered in Lambra police station of Jalandhar. She was carrying these to supply it to him in the jail through a personnel of a private security agency deployed at the jail,” SSP said.
 
 “She revealed the source of the capsules to be Devinder Singh, who was running a de-addiction centre in village Khudda under jurisdiction of Tanda police station in district Hoshiarpur. We laid a trap for Kabal Singh, who was working with a private security agency, to check veracity of Pooja’s claims and then arrested him after finding prima facie evidence against him,” he said.
 
 Meanwhile, Devinder was also arrested on Sunday. “He has also admitted in his questioning that he was taking away part of the supplies of the buprenorphine at the de-addiction centre for selling these at a premium,” SSP said.
 
 “We are further questioning if Pooja’s husband was taking the drug for his personal use or he was supposed to supply it to other inmates also,” SSP Sharma said. The doctor would also be questioned to know if he was supplying the capsules to other persons also.
 
 A team of health department officials, led by deputy medical commissioner Dr Rajesh Thind visited the centre. “We found that it is a licensed centre and had even engaged a psychiatrist. The hospital/centre has been set up by Dr Devinder. We have noted the discrepancies in its functioning and on Tuesday district de-addiction committee, headed by the civil surgeon, would discuss the matter further and would make its recommendations about further action,” said Dr Raj Kumar, psychiatrist of Civil Hospital, Hoshiarpur. Dr Kumar heads the de-addiction and rehabilitation centre at the Civil Hospital.
 
