Jalandhar: Even as Delhi-based AAP leaders have already started facing flak for the defeat in the Punjab assembly elections, a video of the party’s state affairs incharge Sanjay Singh and others has gone viral in which they are enjoying some lighter moments and exuding confidence with reference to the expected results in Punjab.

 The video has gone viral on social media claiming that it was of March 11, but Sanjay later tweeted that it was shot on February 4 after the election process was over in Punjab. However, messages spreading through social media alleged that the Delhi leaders were making fun of Punjab leaders while pointing out that how Bhagwant Mann was being treated by them.
 
 Sanjay is even seen singing a song in the video with other joining the chorus. Amid this, he receives a call from Sangrur MP Mann. Sanjay asks him to render his popular ‘kikli.’ Then he and another AAP leader mimic the telecast of election results on March 11 in which Mann is shown as winning the election and is asked about his claim as the chief ministerial candidate. They also mention senior leader H S Phoolka, apparently to tease Mann.
 
 After the video went viral, Sanjay tweeted that the video was of February 4 when they were having some light moments after the polling was over. “It is not a Talibani party here, laughing and banters are not banned,” he said. 
 
 Meanwhile, AAP sympathizers, including NRIs, have started blaming the Delhi-based leaders for the party’s defeat in Punjab. In his comments on Facebook, AAP’s Edmonton (Canada) chapter convener Harnek Matharoo, while enumerating the reasons for the defeat said, “Reluctance to declare CM candidate created resentment about being ruled by ‘outsiders’, allowing the rise of opportunists in the party and pushing back of genuine volunteers created a divide and loss of commitment.” 
 
 Matharoo continued by giving some more reasons for the debacle — under utilization of some good leaders in campaign, over reliance on one leader left some areas under campaigned, arrogantly pushing out of leaders who asked genuine questions, leading to resentment among dedicated supporters, lack of proper organization, proper control of NRI support so that they feel they are being listened to and appreciated and are not just a source of money.
 
 US-based Manmeet Singh, also an active member of AAP, posted, “Sanjay Singh and Durgesh Pathak should immediately resign. Arvind is still a decent man, who has lost his footing. India needs him. But he has to treat Punjab as a partner state and not like a subordinate. Delhi cabinet is a wonderful team. Hard workers. We will continue to support the good fight without Sanjay Singh and Durgesh Pathak.” 
 
 Canada-based Harry Dhaliwal, who even came to Punjab to campaign for AAP, also held that Punjab-based leaders could be projected in a better way to dispel wrong perceptions. He shared and endorsed active AAP volunteer Sukhjinder Lopon’s video, which, apart from pointing finger at the working of the party, also criticized Bhagwant Mann.
 
 Punjab-based party supporters and sympathizers also questioned working of Delhi leaders, who completely controlled the party in Punjab and took all decisions. Sanjay and Pathak came under fire for the debacle in Punjab. An active AAP member Babbu Khosa also asked for their resignations.
 
 
