KARAIKAL: A former minister and former speaker of the   legislative assembly  , 66, was hacked to death by an unidentified gang at Karaikal on Tuesday afternoon.   left home around noon to visit his wedding hall under construction at Neravy in Karaikal district with his supporters and an Indian reserve battalion police constable around Tuesday noon.

 Reaching the site he got down from his car and was proceeding towards the building under construction. A six-member gang in motorcycles who followed them entered the premises and overpowered the constable at knife point and relieved him of his weapon.
 
 Sivakumar, a five-time MLA, and his supporters attempted to run to safety. In the melee Sivakumar slipped and fell down while others escaped. The gang attacked him with sharp weapons. The former minister sustained deep cut injuries in the neck and collapsed. The gang members hurled country bombs at him. They escaped after ensuring that he died. The gang also hurled two country bombs at a bar owned by Sivakumar while passing the town limits. 
 
 A police team reached the spot and recovered an exploded country bomb with the help of a bomb squad from Nagapattinam district. A sniffer dog was pressed into service. Forensic experts from Nagapattinam combed the scene for vital clues and recovered the remains of the explosion for analysis.
 
 Tension prevailed as soon as the news about the murder spread and police beefed security and posted pickets to prevent any untoward incident. Police provided security to the house and properties of Sivakumar and his political rivals. 
 
 The MLAs from Karaikal region who were attending a meeting at Puducherry rushed back to Karaikal with police protection. Sivakumar, who owned several liquor shops, was involved in several business ventures. Police suspect that enmity and business rivalry among liquor merchants had led to the murder of the former minister. Sivakumar had reportedly extended support to one gang gaining the wrath of the rival gang.
 
 Sivakumar had sought police protection after a liquor merchant Ramu alias Radhakrishnan was murdered by an armed rival gang in January, 2013. 
 
 Sivakumar served as Puducherry agriculture minister in the cabinet led by D Ramachandran between 1980 and 1983. He also served as the speaker of the Pondy legislative assembly from 1996 to 2000 in the DMK government led by R V Janakiraman. 
 
 Sivakumar’s family dominated the political scene for more than four decades at Neravy T R   constituency in the district. His family members were elected from the assembly constituency for a record 10th consecutive time since 1974. Only in the last assembly polls (2016) a person other than his family was elected from the constituency.
 
 
