AHMEDABAD: As a teen in college,  , a native of Anand district, faced a lot of hardships. His father passed away and he had to take a loan at high interest rates. When Patel later migrated to the US and made it big with 14 motels along with other business establishments such as utility stores and gas stations, the first thing he did was to set up a foundation to reach out to   from his home district, Anand.

 “I was born in Davol village near Borsad in Anand district, which had a population of about 14,000. My father was a farmer and our family is still involved in farming,” said Jayanti Patel, adding, “I lost my father when I had just started college.”
 
 “I wanted to study further but his untimely demise forced me to take care of our farming. I had taken a loan of Rs 33,000, 45 years ago, to get a tractor. However, I continued my education,” said Patel, 62.
 
 He migrated to the US in 1980s with support of his family members, settled there and in true migrant fashion, did a number of odd jobs before finding a calling in acquiring and managing motels - a near monopoly of the  .
 
 “My association with Borsad renewed three years ago, when I supported about 300 students in and around my native. My nephew Janak gave advertisements in newspaper and scrutinized applications of those students who were not getting any other financial aid,” said Patel.
 
 “Next year, we extended our scope to cover college students as well and decided to support those in need till end of their education - be it school or college,” he said.
 
 In 2016, he decided to cover Anand district where he got 3,000 applications out of which 940 students were selected for Rs 33 lakh in scholarships. Patel says that caste or other parameters are no bar while deciding the merit.
 
 “My dream is to reach out to Gujarat as a whole with a corpus of about Rs 3 crore. I have come back from deathbed after recovering from cancer three years ago, which changed the course of my life,” he said.
 
 “I have made a foundation to provide the help that I intend to give so that even when I am not around, the work would not stop. In today’s times, education is the only means to scale the social ladder and nobody should be denied that right,” Patel said with conviction.
 
