KOLHAPUR: The Kolhapur divisional board of the Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education ( ) is all geared up for the upcoming theory examinations of the higher secondary certificate (HSC, std XII) from February 28 across the division and the state.

 MSBSHSE conducts the exam in the Arts, Science, Commerce and minimum competence vocational course (MCVC) streams. It will go on till March 25. According to the Kolhapur divisional board officials, ample arrangements have been made for the exam, which will see the appearance of 1.32 lakh students from the division.
 
 Just like last year, students appearing for the board examination will get 10 minutes of reading time before they start writing the paper. The practice, which was being followed by the CBSE and ICSE board for several years, had received a positive response and had greatly benefited the students, an official said.
 
 On the exam proceedings, another board official said students will have to be seated in the exam halls, 30 minutes before the exam is scheduled to begin. They will be given the answer sheets 20 minutes before the exam begins to fill up the details. Students will get the question paper with 10 minutes left for the exam to begin. During this time, the students can only read the paper. 
 
  In the meantime, with the municipal corporation, zilla parishad and panchayat samiti elections coming to an end, the Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE) is all set to conduct the examinations of Class XII (HSC) and Class X (SSC) across the state from February 28 and March 7, respectively.
 
 In Nashik division, a total of 1,68,287 students will appear for the HSC examination while 2,12,576 students will appear for the SSC examination. According to an official communication issued by the Maharashtra board, the HSC (higher secondary certificate) exams will end on March 25, while the SSC exams will get over on April 1.
 
 Junior colleges are already conducting practical and oral examinations for HSC from February 9 and it will go on till February 25. 
 
 Schools are conducting SSC practical and oral exams from February 15 and it will end by March 4.
 
  Marwadi, divisional secretary of Nashik board, said preparations for both the board examinations are in final phase. “After elections, all teachers are now available for the examination-related work and we are ready to conduct examinations in Nashik division with full force,” he said.
 
