CHENNAI:   interim general secretary V K   on Thursday said she felt lonely in the absence of former chief minister J Jayalalithaa.

 In an epistle written from her Bengaluru prison cell, she urged party cadres to take a vow on the occasion of Jayalalithaa’s birth anniversary - February 24 - to work for the stability of the government headed by  .
 
 She recalled how everyone was elated to extend birthday wishes to the departed leader in the past. “This year, let us remember her in our thoughts and take a pledge before her portrait to save the party,” Sasikala said in the letter.
 
 The apex court had on February 14 set aside Sasikala’s acquittal by the Karnataka high court and upheld a special court verdict convicting her and relatives J Ilavarasi and V N Sudhakaran in the disproportionate assets case. Exhorting cadres to organise feasts wherever possible and let the party flag fly high, Sasikala said floral tributes should be paid to the leader’s portrait kept for public display. Elaborate arrangements should be made to observe her birth anniversary as Jayalalithaa had sacrificed her life for the people, she said.
 
 She called upon cadres to mark the celebration with distribution of welfare aid to the poor, and said it should outshine all previous welfare measures. “I request you to take up work that will help her soul rest in peace,” she said. On her long association, close to 33 years with Jayalalithaa, Sasikala said she was deeply saddened by the leader’s absence on her birthday this year. “She is a great leader of the masses. Even those who met her briefly can never forget her,” she said, hailing the leader’s personality, love and affection for her, besides her hard work.
 
 When MG Ramachandran government faced trials, Jayalalithaa was a guiding star and a beacon of hope for cadres who were directionless and in distress. “It was her soul that guided us and stabilized the government when the enemies and traitors were trying to topple it,” said Sasikala. Sasikala said the schemes envisaged by the departed leader should be implemented successfully such that they would make a difference in people’s life.
 
 
