Oorja – CAPF ( ) U/19  , which was announced in a star-studded ceremony at India Gate, officially began earlier this week.  , Union Minister of State for Home Affairs, kick-started the tournament by kicking a football. The evening also witnessed cultural performances by various dance groups from around the country.

  
 Welcoming the guests at the inauguration, OP Singh, DG, CISF said, "We are going to host the U-17   World Cup, and this tournament is an initiative to make   popular among children in India. Around 1,200 participants representing 76 teams will be participating in Oorja 2017, which will be organised in three levels for the next three months." He thanked PM Narendra Modi for initiating the concept as a run-up to the FIFA Under-19 World Cup.
 
  
  
 
 
  
  Beat Breakers performing swords act at the event
 
 
  
  CISF jawans with the footballs to be signed by chief guests and guests of honour
 
 
 
 Talking about the importance of sports in today's time, Rijiju, said, "Gone are those days when only studies could make you successful. Sports are as important as studies. We should do away with the age-old proverb, 'Padhoge, likhoge toh banoge nawab, kheloge, koodoge toh hoge kharaab.' We should rather encourage, 'Padhoge, kheloge, koodoge toh banoge nawab.'"
 
 
 
  
  The star performer of the evening was West Bengal's Kairajuddin Mir, who showed tricks with multiple footballs
 
 
 
 Seeing the enthusiasm of school students from across the country, who are participating in this tournament, Rijiju added, "I am confident that the tournament is going to be a high-standard tournament. Central Armed Police Forces from different parts of the country, be it border areas, North, South, East or West, have been preparing for the tournament. The news and pictures coming from these places, show that the tournament has kick-started with zeal and vigour in these areas as well. Football is very popular in many countries. Kai deshon mein toh football logon ka dharm hai. India main bhi football popular hone wala hai."
 
  
  (L-R) OP Singh, DG, CISF, Kiren Rijiju, Union Minister of State for Home Affairs
 
  
 The event started with a Ganesh Vandana by a Kathak group which was followed by different cultural performances by various dance groups. The groups performed at the event include Beat Breakers, Show Stoppers, Delhi Free Style Clan and Makkad Group, among others. The star performer of the evening was Kairajuddin Mir from West Bengal who showed tricks with multiple footballs.
 
 --Jyoti.Kanyal@timesgroup.com
 
 
 
