New Delhi: The proposal for a   has found little traction with the government, which wants to leave it to market forces and banks to clean up their books instead of the Centre stepping in for what many believe will amount to a bailout.

 Chief economic adviser Arvind Subramanian as well as Viral Acharya, the new RBI deputy governor, have suggested variants of a bad bank in the form of Public Sector Asset Rehabilitation Agency (PARA) and National Asset Management Company.
 
 Sources in the finance ministry, however, said that the issue is best left to banks as the government did not have the required resources to meet the capitalisation needs. In addition, politically, it does not want to be seen to be bailing out companies and banks when the same resources can be deployed elsewhere. This argument stems from the fact that the US TARP was seen to be pro-corporate sector and did not go down well with the voters, something that Donald Trump pushed to his advantage during the presidential elections.
 
 Apart from that, sources said, there are already several asset reconstruction companies that have been strengthened through amendments to the law. Besides, several overseas funds such as KKR, JC Flowers and the Canadian Pension Fund are queuing up with $6-8 billion to take over  . “There is no dearth of interest in   and the question is how to make good use of the funds that the government has. It is best that banks and the private sector take care when there is already interest,” said an officer.
 
 Close to half-a-dozen proposals are awaiting RBI clearance, said an official.
 
 In addition, banks have themselves got moving. For instance, they have referred eight cases to the two-member committee comprising former Central Vigilance Commissioner Pradeep Kumar and former SBI chairman Janaki Ballabh on resolving NPAs. Of these, six have been cleared, while in two cases the panel has asked for reworking the process.
 
 “The activity will pick up in the coming months. The question is of pricing, something that the RBI has already suggested can be dealt with through a rating-based pricing mechanism,” said a government officer, who did not wish to be identified.
 
 Sources said that CEA Subramanian’s proposal of having PARA or an asset reconstruction company only for the public sector was not feasible as several private players such as ICICI Bank and Axis Bank were also part of loan consortiums. 
 
 Indian banks, led by the public sector players, have been grappling with record non-performing loans as several sectors such as power, steel and cement have been hit by a mix of factors, such as lack of demand and slow clearances.
 
 
