It was a path-breaking experiment, when the students from the Mechanical department of   put in their best efforts to create a replica of a coal mine. Mooted by Emmanuel P Jacob of third year, it was organised as part of the technical fest titled Dhishna 2017, and his classmates and juniors took the idea to an altogether different realm. 

 Emmanuel says that he drew inspiration from the work of one of his friends from another college three years ago, and taking it one step further, he endowed it with his innovation and creativity. 
 
  He says that a location resembling the underground area was chosen inside the campus for them to work on. He says, “The areas were steep and that helped us to create an impression of the conditions of the coal workers of the 80s and 90s.”
 
  The mine, which elongated up to half a kilometer, was the result of their hard work for around 20 days, say the students. From around 4 pm to 8 pm, these students dedicated their time to create the mine. However, when it actually panned out to be much more than what they had anticipated, it was double the joy, Emmanuel says.
 
  Raw materials such as bamboo, polythene sheets, baseboard and paper were used, among many others. Amaljith George, another student says that though the uneven topography of the area was a bit of a concern, they succeeded in creating the mine effect.
 
  He adds that he was one of the seven guides, who gave the enthusiasts’ a trip into the interiors. Amaljith says, “It became darker with each step ahead, the temperature level also started rising, and in addition to it, we had an overcoat and a helmet resembling those of the coal mine workers.”
  While taking a stroll, as one neared the end point, there was actual coal piled up so as to give the onlookers the feel of the things from the past. Divided into three chambers, it transported one into the lives of the coal mine workers. While the first zone focused on their hardships and the facilities the miners had, the second one gave a glimpse of the safety measures that should be followed, and the third zone was insightful by covering aspects such as excavation, crushing and transportation of coal.
 
 Dr Biju N, head of the department says with pride that they didn’t have the slightest clue that the students’ work would turn so massive. He concludes, “To recreate the scenes of incidents from an era they had never before witnessed was praiseworthy. The explanations they gave regarding the working community was so precise and accurate that everyone present was really amazed.”
 
