CHANDIGARH: Punjab is trying to revive the   in the state by going in for   in  . The housing and urban development department has begun work on a plan to rationalize the rates of properties in the state, which are believed to be a put off for prospective buyers.

 The realty sector has been hoping to get a boost from the new government. Sources said following the recent meeting convened by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh with officials of the Punjab Urban Development Authority (PUDA), a roadmap is being finalised to remove disparities in pricing of domestic and commercial projects in the state.
 
 “At some places, there is huge difference in prices even within a radius of 5 km. If the government projects undertake some course correction, it will have an impact on the overall real estate scenario in the state. In the past, the development authorities only revised prices after getting repeated poor response at auctions,” said an official.
 
 The plan will be worked out after getting feedback from the other state government agencies in the state – Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA), Bathinda Development Authority (BDA), Amritsar Development Authority (ADA), Patiala Development Authority (PDA) and   Area Development Authority (GLADA). These agencies have also been asked to create land banks in their areas.
 
 The problem of pricing has been a hurdle in the realty scenario for quite some time now. In March 2012, GMADA’s draw for premium apartments in Sector 88 got a lukewarm response due to the steep prices. With a one-BHK apartment with parking priced at Rs 37 lakh, prospective buyers felt that private developers were selling such properties at a much lower rate in the market.
 
 “Even in areas of Mohali where the collector rates for different areas vary between Rs 25,000 per sq yd and Rs 28,000 per sq yd, GMADA has been fixing reserve price for residential plots at Rs 90,000 per sq yd. This is bound to have a negative impact on the buyers,” said  , a property consultant based in Ropar.
 
 “Real estate prices have not picked up in the past five years and with skyrocketing construction costs, there are only genuine buyers left in the market. The state government should respond to their aspirations,” added Kamaldeep Dhillon, a Patiala-based property consultant.
 
 
