JAIPUR: The   has failed to get flights from any   except Delhi.   told TOI that bigger cities like   have failed to give slot to any flight from Kishangarh airport due to high air traffic.The airlines showed interest but the airports have showed no interest in   For the time being the much awaited Kishangarh airport will operate flights connected to region.

 The reason being that the airport is equipped to handle ATR flights (40-60 seater) which is turning out to be the biggest obstacle in getting flights listed in the cities. “Due to high congestion at airports in Mumbai, Bengaluru, Kolkata, Chennai and Hyderabad, they are taking time in slotting smaller aircraft flights from Ajmer,“ said Sanjeev Jindal, general manager of AAI.
 
 The only flight which is confirmed for operations from here is Zoom Airlines from Jaipur to Delhi and Jaipur to Udaipur. This is the only airlines, which has confirmed its winter schedule starting from October. This means Kishangarh airport has two flights, one to Delhi and the other to Udaipur as of now.
 
 The other airline which showed interest in operations is Supreme Airlines which is again connecting Ajmer to Kota, Udaipur and Jodhpur.The agreement with the Su preme Airlines is in the final stages. The AAI is hopeful that commercial flight operations will begin in August.
 
 “The building is ready and awaiting the final inspection from the DGCA to be held in the first week of August. They will be doing some cryptography survey and I am hoping that by the middle of August the operations will begin,“ said Jindal.
 
 Sources told TOI that Kishangarh airport's proximity to Jaipur (100 kms) is preventing both the airlines and airports to proceed with operations.Jaipur is connected with destinations like Bengaluru, Chennai, Kolkata, Hyderabad, Mumbai and Ahmedabad. The national carrier Air India showed interest earlier but due to its financial ill health, not much has happened.
 
 The airport is spread in 746 acres of land which is equivalent to the Jaipur airport. At present the airport on the basis of its feasibility is built to handle ATR planes. The Boeing and Airbus cannot land at Kishangarh airport.
 
