MEERUT: A lawyer representing BSP leader and   has claimed that the woman who allegedly barged into a   and   recently was not  , as alleged, but a lookalike.

 “The woman with a whip in her hand – whose pictures have been taken from   at the school – is a lookalike of   but is not his daughter. These are false allegations and we demand forensic investigation to prove our claim,” said Hari Om Sharma, lawyer of Yakub Qureshi. 
 
 The denial came a week after Qureshi’ daughter Asmaa allegedly barged into the classroom of Meerut Public Girls’ School (MPGS) and beat up four students for snitching on Qureshi’s granddaughter. Asmaa and her husband are to surrender to the police on July 17.
 
 Questioned why nobody from Qureshi’s family came forward and said so when police conducted raids at the BSP leader’s residence, Sharma said, “Under political pressure from Hindu organisations and political parties it became difficult for the Qureshis to give their side of the story. When Yakub Qureshi asked his daughter if she had gone to the school, she denied it. However, uncanny it might seem, the pictures taken from the CCTV footage show that the woman is a lookalike of Qureshi’s daughter Asmaa.” 
 
  The statement came two days after Asmaa, her husband Shadaab and their maid Nargis filed a surrender application in a Meerut court. After the surrender applications, the application for non-bailable warrants filed by the police was put on hold.
 
 “A surrender application was given in this case because the police were harassing the Qureshis by conducting searches for Asmaa repeatedly. Moreover, Yakub Qureshi has said that since Asmaa is married, her family is separate and distinct and he is being defamed unnecessarily,” said Sharma.
 
  Talking to TOI, Meerut city SP Maan Singh Chauhan said, “We have taken CCTV footage as our evidence and identified the accused from it. But still, if the accused feel that any wrong action has been taken, they are free to come forward and tell us their side of the story.”
 
