NEW DELHI/MUMBAI: In a joint operation with the Delhi police, the Mumbai crime branch on Saturday arrested   (23), the main accused in the   of a 21-year-old aspiring air hostess in Delhi on Wednesday, along with his two associates. A hunt across four states led to the arrest in Mumbai of Mohammad Adil, the man who had stabbed 21-year-old   in east Delhi. Riya succumbed to injuries on Thursday.

 In a well-coordinated operation in which Delhi Police shared real-time inputs with police in UP, Mumbai and Gujarat, a team from Unit 9 of Mumbai Crime Branch took in Adil and two associates from Bandra early on Saturday.
 
 Adil, who was seen on CCTV stabbing Riya Gautam outside her Ram Nagar Colony home, in Delhi’s Mansarovar area on Wednesday, fled to Mumbai with his associates Junaid Ansari (19) and a juvenile. They were picked up from a relative’s house in Behrampada, Bandra (East). 
 
 “After he killed the girl on Wednesday, police teams raided Adil’s ancestral home in Aligarh and suspected hideouts in Dahod and Vapi in Gujarat, where his relatives live,” said Ravindra Yadav, joint commissioner (Eastern Range). “He was finally detected in Behrampada in Bandra after he tried to contact a friend about a safehouse.”
 
 On interrogation, Adil, also known as Munne Khan, claimed that he was in a romantic relationship with Gautam for three years. When she ended it abruptly and without telling him why, his friends in Aligarh convinced him that the girl had used him to fulfil her needs. It was then, he confessed, that he decided to kill her.
 
 Adil came to Chhota Bazar in Shahdara on July 1, where he bought three knives for Rs 120. He then asked a friend, Junaid, and a juvenile to carry out a reconnaissance of Gautam’s daily route. The latter two were also   in Mumbai on Saturday.
 
 On Wednesday, Adil phoned Gautam and asked her to meet him near her house. When she left home, Junaid and the minor followed her to the rendezvous. There, the conversation between Adil and the girl degenerated into an argument. When he tried to attack her, she ran into a shop, but Adil managed to stab her a number of times.
 
 After the incident, the trio got on a Phatphat Sewa vehicle and reached Anand Vihar ISBT, from where they went to Aligarh via Mathura. On the way, Adil asked his foster father to take his mother and brother and hide in Ghaziabad. Soon after, the three youths boarded a train to Mumbai.
 
 Nine teams lead by Nupur Prasad, DCP (Shahdara), launched a technical surveillance and detected him travelling by train and stopping at Dahod in Gujarat on Thursday. “However, when the police team reached the place, he had left by another train,” said Prasad. “We asked the railways to give us the list of stoppages of the train and alerted the state police concerned.”
 
 Mansarovar police tracked his mobile to Mumbai and sought help from Mumbai Crime Branch unit 9, which tracked him to Behrampada. “We traced Adil’s relatives and arrested him and his friends,” said assistant inspector Nitin Patil.
 
 The cops recovered the knives used in the murder and efforts are being made to recover other case materials. The three have been charged with murder and criminal conspiracy.
 
