PANAJI: Wedding celebrations with all their pomp and show have always been the primary reason for   for a family. However,   has overtaken weddings as the number one cause for debt, revealed psychiatrist and researcher,  .

 Speaking on Day 4 of the tenth edition of the D D Kosambi festival of ideas, Patel said that more than 50% of the population has to sell household goods or borrow money to pay for an episode of hospitalization for heart disease.
 
 “Medical inflation is outstripping every other kind of item in the market. The price of medical bills of hospitalization, diagnostic tests and medicines is rising more rapidly than the food at Panaji market,” he said.
 
 Patel went on to criticise the pharmaceutical system in India that charges varying rates for the same medicine. He also called out the nexus between doctors, general practitioners and pharmacists that works to extract more money from patients.
 
 He alleged that healthcare today is in the hands of the medical industry complex. “The pharmaceutical industry in the recently-held US elections, outranked every other industry, including oil, in political donations. This is because it is in their interest to have politicians in their pocket. Nobody besides them would then control the price of drugs and healthcare. Obamacare is being removed because of this medical industry complex,”
 
 Quoting from the national mental health survey of India 2015-2016, Patel said that 10% of India’s population is affected by mental health issues which translates to more than 100 million people in India. Alarmingly, 90% of these individuals have received no care at all.
 
 Urging people to destigmatize mental health issues, he said, “We need to find a way to deliver psychological help to people in the community. Have compassion for individuals with a drinking disorder because that too is a mental health problem.”
 
 The need to offer such care to the community is what led to the establishment of his institute, Sangath, in Porvorim, Patel said, going on to share success stories of villagers in the hinterlands of the state who are recuperating from mental health problems as a result of the institute’s initiatives.
 
 
