Manveer Gurjar’s journey on   over the last four months has generated quite a buzz in Noida. After all, this is the first time that Noidawallahs have had one of their own as an inmate on one of the country’s most popular reality shows. On Wednesday evening, the Noida lad beat his friend and former inmate   to become the first person to win a ticket to the season finale of the show, thereby saving himself from all subsequent eliminations. As soon as the episode aired, Manveer’s family started getting congratulatory phone calls and messages, which continued late into the night. His family and friends, who had been busy ‘campaigning for votes’, have now diverted their attention to planning for a victory rally now.

 
 Manveer’s younger brother Sachin tells us, “Ever since the news broke, I have been flooded with congratulatory messages and calls. People have also been coming over to our house and congratulating our parents. If I say, ‘abhi jeeta nahi hai’, people reply, ‘ab toh jeetne se koi nahi rok sakta’.” For his family, the attention and congratulatory messages make them feel as if their boy has won an election. Manveer’s father, Maharaj Singh, says, “Raat se itne logon ke phone aur message aa rahe hain, jaise ladka election jeet gaya ho.”
 
 
 Manveer’s friends and family are surprised by the change in his nature during his journey on the show. His best friend Neeraj Boisaoya says, “He was always a very confrontational and aggressive person. But here he is being so calm and mature. I have never seen him like this. People love that he is behaving so sensibly. Yeh wala Manveer toh humne pehle kabhi dekha hi nahin tha.” His father Maharaj Singh adds, “I had never thought he would get this far on the show. He is a hot-headed person, and I thought do-teen hafte mein hi baahar ho jayega. Jab gaya tha toh socha tha ki kuch naya experience karke aayega, acha hai. But this was totally unexpected.”
 
 
  Manveer's family at his Noida residence (BCCL)
 
 In the episode aired on Wednesday night, Manveer interacted with some fans at a Mumbai mall, and when a female fan asked him to kiss her, he obliged with a peck on her lips. Though not entirely pleased with that public display of affection, his family accepts it as ‘part of the show’. “Yeh sab hota hi hai TV par. He was still very dignified in his conduct,” says Manveer’s father.
 
 His family says that getting this far despite not being a known face, makes him a winner in their eyes already. “Some people say that the show is fixed, and that x person is already the winner and Manveer won’t win. Humein woh sab nahin pata. Bas itna hai ki despite not being a celebrity, he has become the audience’s favourite. He is already the winner for us,” says Sachin.
 
 
 But for most of his supporters, there is no question as to whether Manveer will win the show. Neeraj says that now the preparations to hold a grand welcome have begun, because everyone is confident that Manveer will win the show. “I don’t think anyone in Bigg Boss’ history has received as many votes as Manveer has. Despite being a commoner, he is a crowd favourite. Jeetna toh usko hai hi. We are already thinking of how to give him a grand welcome when he returns to Noida. So many people want to go and receive him at the airport and take their cars along for a grand victory rally. I’m sure jis din woh aayega, airport se Noida ki road par jam lag jayega. Kisi neta ki bhi itni badi rally nahin hui hogi jitni Manveer ki hogi,” says Neeraj.
 
  
  
