AHMEDABAD: A day after he ‘unfollowed’   and other   on   and indicated he won’t fight   again,   on Monday retracted his statements. Talking to reporters in   on Monday, Vaghela explained his decision to ‘unfollow’ the   Vice-President was not personal and that he will remain inactive on the social media only till the Assembly elections.

 When asked to clarify whether he would be retiring from politics and joining the BJP, Vaghela said: “I do not have any plans to retire at this stage and will take a decision to contest the polls when the time comes. I have no plans to join the BJP.” In March, Vaghela had claimed he was not in the race for the chief minister’s post in the state assembly elections. However, last month 36 out of a total of 57 Congress MLAs had demanded that Vaghela be made the party’s chief ministerial face if the Congress wanted to win the polls.
 
 Also, a poster campaign had started on the social media to declare ‘Bapu’, as Vaghela’s called in political circles, as the CM candidate of the Congress. Political circles were abuzz with speculation that Vaghela was keen to be declared the CM candidate of the party and given full authority of selecting winnable candidates. Vaghela had also given rise to speculation that not everything was well between him and the top Congress leadership when he left halfway through the meeting between Rahul Gandhi and Gujarat leaders. He also did not attend the state IT cell meet in Ahmedabad on Sunday.
 
 Clarifying about what he said on Sunday, Vaghela said: “I am taking leave from social media not because I am keen to be the CM. I have enjoyed the positions of chief minister and cabinet minister at the Centre. I have removed the negative posts and un-followed the leaders so that the negativity being spread gets stopped.” Party sources told Mirror: “By doing new things every other day, Vaghela is trying to arm-twist the party to get more seats for his men. He wants higher say in ticket allocation so that when it comes to deciding the CM candidate, he gets good numbers in his favor.
 
 Bapu wants his say in more than 100 tickets and that is why he had expressed confidence of winning 108 seats in the next polls. He also wants early declaration of candidates to strategise and brighten the chances of his candidates’ victory. But as he is an ‘imported’ and not original Congress leader, party does not believe in him. The core group of ‘Mul Congressi (dedicated Congress leaders)’ have problems with him.” When asked about Bapu’s ‘un-following’ on social media, GPCC president Bharat Solanki said: “I have a meeting with the Bapu on Tuesday in which we will have a discussion on the issue.”
 
 ‘BJP not convinced with Vaghela’ There’s strong buzz Vaghela is keen to join the BJP due to the rift between him and Bharatsinh Solanki. However, the BJP is not at all keen to accept Vaghela. BJP sources said: “We have bright chances of winning forthcoming polls on back of PM Modi’s popularity. Our organisation and leadership has got stronger in last three years. We don’t need leaders like Bapu as it can disturb our organisational structure.” Commenting on the issue, BJP spokesperson Bharat Pandya said: “Bapu’s equations with the party and its leaders is the internal matter of the Congress. If he wants to join us, then our central leadership will decide on it once the proposal comes.”
 
