NEW DELHI: With the issuing of a request for information ( ) to six foreign firms to build highly lethal and advanced  , India is making efforts to ensure that there is maximum indigenous content in the project.
 
  The firms will have to ensure that there is usage of Indian steel in the submarines,transfer of technology, including the design details and a tie up with an Indian shipyard under the strategic partnership model. The six submarines are believed will be the most advanced submarines in the Indian Ocean Region ( ).
  
  These type of submarines currently don’t exist and when produced will be their only kind. For India, they will greatly enhance its Navy’s warfare capabilities and be a deterrent to Chinese naval forays in the IOR. Around mid-July, the RFI was issued to the six Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) —France’s DCNS (Naval Group), Germany’s ThyssenKrupp Marine Systems, Sweden’s Saab, Russia’s United Shipbuilding Corporation, Japan’s Mitsubishi Heavy Industries and Spain’s Navantia.
  
  
  
 
  
  
  Sources aware of the RFI said the selected OEM will have to ensure that there is maximum usage of indigenous content in the submarines, without compromising on their standards. “We have a big industrial base for advanced equipment for submarines,” said a government official. The OEMs have been given details of such industries and submarine equipment developed by   that can be considered for the project.
  
  Sources said that India also wants to use indigenous steel for the construction of submarines. The OEMs will have to determine whether this is possible. Furthermore, the OEMs will have to submit their designs for the submarines and identify the navies which are using the same design. India also wants that through the transfer of technology (ToT) it is able to receive the design details.
  
  The requirement of ToT is mandatory for the OEMs to move ahead in the project. “The firms will have to detail how much technology they are willing to transfer. They will also have to give measures to support the strategic partnership model by setting up a system for integrating military platforms,” said an official.
  
  The model aims at choosing Indian private firms as strategic partners to tie up with foreign OEMs to manufacture such platforms. The Project 75 (I) will be the first project under this model. The OEMs will partner Indian shipyards to build submarines. 
