In a social setting, this scenario has played out innumerable times. “What do you do?” asks the Stylized Stubble in chinos.

 “I’m in  ,” says the Goatee in distressed jeans.
 
 “Wow, that’s cool, you guys make ads,” nods the Stubble, sipping his Merlot. Goatee agrees. He has had a long day. (End of conversation.)
 
 Yeah, we advertising folks do make ads but what is it that we really do? Or should be doing? Why does the world need mad men and women like us? The answer is hidden in one word: Brand.
 
  are not ads. They are not colours and clever words. They are not the prefixes of designations in marketing departments.
 
 Brands are primary business assets and their fundamental role is to create value at the enterprise level. The list of the world’s most valuable brands compiled every year features an illustrious line of strong labels that consistently outperform the market average. A closer look would show that a significant portion of their value resides outside of their balance sheet, in the intangibles. And the ‘brand’ has the lion’s share of this value pie.
 
 In this context, a brand doesn’t just belong in the marketing sphere. Nor, for that matter, is it the exclusive realm of a wordsmith or an artist. It’s an enterprise-level subject on which management decisions should be based. It is a CXO conversation.
 
 Why? Well, because CXOs are measured by performance. And brands are the most significant performing assets – there’s no hiding from the Excel sheet here! And what drives this Excel sheet can be summarised in a simple question: “Are enough people willing to pay for the service we provide, for the product we make?”
 
 People have choices. Time, money and relationship are all currencies people use to pay for the brands they value and the brands they choose. A brand needs to be at its best to feature in such a consideration set. And it needs to keep doing it very consistently, over a long period of time, for the Excel sheet to look good. The brands we love, and are willing to pay for, do this for a living.
 
 And to be part of this, to lay the foundation, to shape, to nurture and to manage such brands, is what advertising folks turn up to work for, everyday.
 
 Yes, we are the guys people come to when they need to create iconic capital for brands, like logos, posters, packaging, radio spots, print ads, TV commercials, and so on. We are also the girls and boys who ventured into the world of brands because we seem to have the knack of taking (to the people who would pay for it) what-ever it is that factories and businesses make. This is the proud legacy of our advertising forefathers which we carry as our baton.
 
 We do that through ideas which transform human behaviour. Ideas that come alive through communication, through design, through craft and action. We do that by relentlessly anchoring the brand on its purpose. And more often, we showcase all of this through PowerPoint slides.
 
 And the PowerPoint has – and should have – only one purpose: To positively impact your Excel sheet. And that’s what we should be tasked with.
 
 Oftentimes, we, the mad men and women, are guilty of forgetting the real reason for our work in the frenzy of creating a jingle, or in the rush of a campaign production. So, it is important for those of us in the privileged business of advertising to remind ourselves that our responsibility is ‘to create a wonderful world where PowerPoint meets Excel to deliver magic’. 
 
 And it is equally important for those who we work with to challenge us and partner us towards delivering that magic. To grow business through brands.
 
 
 By Antony Rajkumar
 (Author is Executive Vice-President, Strategy,  )
 
