Nagpur: With a view to educate how the civic body functions, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation in association with Akhil Bharatiya Sthanik Swarajya Sanstha will jointly organize a workshop cum training programme for newly elected corporators to understand their duties and rights better.

 In a 151-member house, 50 % corporators are women and 91 members are first timers, said seasoned corporator and ruling party leader Sandip Joshi. The ruling party leader further assured to provide every possible help he could do for them in accomplishing their goals.
 
 During the workshop, which will be held in third week of March, many areas of the city will be highlighted so that the corporators could prioritize their work. Information regarding the municipality act will be given to them. Besides, a short brief of rights and duties of corporators will be informed to the newly elected corporators.
 
 They will discuss about the basic facilities that needs improvement including railway gate problem, drinking water facility, traffic, proper roads and encroachments.
 
 Joshi said that there is a need to provide knowledge about the working of the corporation to the newly elected members to ensure that they understand its functioning while serving the city. The civic issues of NMC and the hurdles need to be explained to the new members, he pointed out.
 
 During the workshop, different departments of the NMC will made presentations on working of their respective topics. Moreover, the newly elected corporators would be provided information about the Maharashtra Municipal Corporation Act, the functioning of the civic body and various committees, said a senior official from NMC’s secretariat.
 
 Nitin Sathawane, a first time Congress corporator from Prabhag number 21, was happy after his win over two-time sitting independent corporator Ravindra Dolas. However, now the biggest challenge he is facing is to resolve the complaints of citizens over civic issues.
 
 He has no clue as to how the zone office functions and to whom he should contact if someone comes up with a complaint of drainage choking.
 
 Similar is the story of BJP corporator from Prabhag number 23 Manisha Dhawde. She too stressed the need for a workshop for learning on how the civic body functions.
 
 However, due to lack of experience, they often fail to raise issues systematically, which affects development works of their wards, he further said. “Such workshops would help us to raise the civic issues in a better way and ensure development works of our wards,” said first-time Congress corporator from ward number 18 Rishikesh Shelke. He has also started touring his ward and gathering civic issues being faced by the citizens.
 
 The corporators will also be apprised about the procedure of revenue collection by different departments like property tax and their importance for the development of the city.
 
 
