NEW DELHI: A man, his wife and their 16-year-old daughter committed suicide in their house in outer Delhi’s Begumpur early Sunday.

 The man, Rajesh Gupta (35), was found hanging, while his wife and daughter were found on the bed with froth coming out of their mouths. A one-page suicide note, supposedly written by the man, was also found on the bed, which said he felt lonely because he had no friends. Gupta had moved to Rajiv Nagar Extension 10 years back with his wife, Uma, and daughter Shweta. Neighbours said none of the family members ever had an argument with anyone over these years, and they were clueless about what could have led them to kill themselves. 
 
 “I live in the same building. I had gone to get the key of the main door from Uma. It was a Sunday so when I first knocked and got no answer, I thought they must be sleeping. However, after repeated attempts, I raised an alarm. Soon after, I noticed Rajesh hanging from a rod,” said Bablu. The police was called and the   were taken to a hospital where doctors declared them dead on arrival. 
 
 The suicide note said, “I don’t want you to remove our bodies from the house until our family members come...there is nothing sad about the incident...Please don’t question anyone because taking this step was our decision. We are sorry for doing this.” 
 
 A senior police officer said that a close friend of Gupta had recently moved out of the area and that could be the reason that he was feeling lonely. “Some residents have also told us that Uma was diagnosed with a disease and often said that she was going to die,” he said. 
 
 Uma’s brother, Keshav, said, “My sister never had an argument with anyone in her family. They were a very happy couple and loving parents. I had never expected something like this to happen ever”. The family belonged to Faizabad in Uttar Pradesh and had moved to Delhi 17 years back.
 
 Gupta was a taxi driver and Uma was a housewife. Shweta was a student of Class X. “We have informed their family members. We may get a clear picture when they are here,” said M N Tiwari, deputy commissioner of police (Rohini). 
 
 
