JAIPUR: Eyeing the 2018 assembly polls, the   government in the state is all set to   land and   campaigns in the state and regularize several illegal  .

 Over the next two months, officials of various departments would be busy holding the `Chief Minister Shehari Jan Kalyan Shivir’ in urban areas and the third phase of Revene Lok Adalats in the state. The Pandit Deen Dayal Vishesh Kalyan Shivir will be held in September. The upcoming campaigns were discussed and cleared during the state cabinet meeting on Wednesday.
 
 At the shehari jan kalyan camps, residential colonies illegally constructed before January 1, 1990 would be regularized under the Rajasthan Grants Act. For those who belong to the ST and SC category, the regularization will be done for land occupied till January 1, 1996.
 
 ``The CM Shehari Jan Kalyan Shivir will be launched on May 10 and would continue till July 10. The camp will categorically address matters related to `pattas’ (record of land ownership) and urban bodies. At this camp, residential colonies constructed on agriculture land; residential complexes constructed prior to December 31, 2015 without the mandatory setback; approval of house maps and related matters would be regularized,’’ said state parliamentary affairs minister  , while briefing the media about the decisions taken by the state cabinet. 
 
 ``Rules will be simplified and relaxed for regularization of the colonies which were constructed years ago. The government will provide a relaxation for the `pattas’ granted under the Rajasthan Government Grants Act. Those who have constructed houses on a 500 square meters plot in the urban areas, regularization would be done free of cost,’’ informed Rathore. 
 
 ``Issues related to 23 matters like Ceiling on  , custodian land, PWD and PHED will be resolved at the camps,’’ he said. An empowered committee shall be given the powers of Urban Local Bodies for quick disposal of the cases.
 
 Land holders who had not got their land regularized at previous camps, can get it done by paying an additional 25 percent premium for one time. ``The maximum allotment limit for land slots has been increased to 150 square yards. Complete exemption shall be given in interest on full payment of remaining lease amount and urban development tax,’’ he informed.
 
 The third phase of the Nyay Aapke Dwar campaign will be launched on May 8 and will continue till June 30. ``Preference shall be given to solve the disputes related to pathway according to the circular issued on August 10, 2016. Lok adalats will be held at the Gram Panchayat headquarters,’’ he added.
 
 The state government will develop 3,169 villages in the state as `Smart Villages’ this year, which would have facilities similar to those in a city. A review meeting of the smart village scheme was presided over by chief minister Vasudhara Raje on Wednesday, during which she directed officials to ensure that facilities like clean drinking water, street lights, Wifi and sports grounds are provided in the smart villages. Departmental officials said that eligible individuals will be provided accommodation on priority basis under PM Aawas Yojna (rural) in smart villages. Works including farm pond, cattle shed, levelling of farms, etc., will be completed on priority under the MNREGA.
 
