From among the first set of music jockeys of Chennai to an actress of substance,   has come a long way. She will soon be seen in Andava Kaanom, a film which has been in the making for more than two years. She talks to Chennai Times as to how was it to face camera for a commercial movie, after about eight years.

 
 I forayed into VJiing at the age of 18, with SS Music, which was considered to be the MTV of Chennai. I was among the first set of VJs recruited by the chan nel. I never had the conventional look or the voice. But I got selected. It was a very interesting stint and unlike today's prim and proper shows, I considered the studio my home and I used to be myself while interacting with the listeners. That made me quite popular among the audience, especially the youth, in no time. In the meantime, I also started getting acting offers. I wanted to do something different and that landed me in films, as an actress. From Telugu, Malayalam, Tamil and English, I have been busy with films and, when I was at the peak of my film career, I decided to get married. When produc ers were behind me with several scripts, I was busy making preparations for my wedding. (laughs).
 
 
 
 I have never been behind money or in the rat race to become the number one heroine. I wanted to do different and meaty roles. But the scripts that came my way were trash --the same type of movies, and it didn't inspire me. However, I did Kanchivaram, under Priyadarshan's direction. Though my family was not very excited about me getting back to acting, they were happy when   was offered to me. Similarly , when the script of Andava Kanom came, it was my family who wanted me to do the movie as it had such a well-written role for me. Interestingly , it was my husband who signed the agreement with the film producer, as I was away in the US.
 
 
 
 I was happy to bag the role but when I went to the shooting spot on the first day, director C Velmathi, gave me a two page-long dialogue and I was like, what the hell is happening? Though I am fluent in Tamil, I have never spoken the Theni slang and I was taken back at the volume and difficulty of the lines. I am someone who doesn't by-heart the dialogues or go for prompting; I imbibe the lines and deliver them in my own way. So, I told the director that I can't do the role and asked him to look for someone else. Though a newbie, he had total conviction in me and my strength as an actress, and he decided to wait. In the meantime, he kept on insisting that I should do the role. But, it took me almost five days to convince myself that I can pull off the role.It's a dark comedy with an interesting script, about the relationship of a brother and sister. The movie is all about what happens when someone takes away what's rightfully yours.   has given the voiceover for the anda in the movie.
 
 
 
 We shot in a village and all the supporting actors in the movie are people from the village. It was a blessing as well as a challenge.There were no other actors and whenever I had free time, I would sit and chit-chat with them. We shot for a month-and-a-half, and I spent my days in the company of the villagers. Since the villagers are not very well-versed with acting, I had to act in a very convincing manner, so that they react to my actions. In one scene, I had to be drenched in kerosene and the scene was about six-minutes long. I was so involved in the scene that when it ended, the director forgot to say cut and everyone including the cameraman was in tears.
 
 
 
 (Laughs) It's true that I am this hot-pants clad urban-bred girl and do not have any resemblance to the kind of roles that I get to play. I am not a typical heroine that we get to see in mass movies. But when it comes to acting, I think I have it in me--that inborn talent. The body language and mannerism comes naturally to me. Moreover, I am very choosy about the scripts and I look for author-backed roles. My recent movie with Priyadarshan, Sila Samayangalil, has been to several film festivals, and we would like to release it soon in a big way.
 
 
 
 I am not interested in doing web-series. I want to do more authorbacked roles and excel as a film actress. However, I don't mind doing television, which will show me in a jovial role, not the ones that are currently aired.
 
 
 
 You can't attribute casting couch and women exploitation only to the film industry . Such incidents happen across industries but when it happens in the cinema field, it's glamorously glorified. I have never faced such a situation in my entire career but I think these days the youngsters are more prone to exploitation. I would say that everyone should carry themselves in a no-nonsense way so that men don't have the courage to approach you with such intentions. There are crazy people around. That said, I won't say that all men are bad or good. Probably, I did not have any such experience because I carry off an attitude, if you mess with me, I will wring your neck. From my voice, I have a deep voice, and physique, my personality sends such a vibe and that's probably one reason people are scared of me. I have observed that even at my movie locations. Everyone is worried as to how I will react and they are shit scared of me. That said, I am also waiting for something like a revolution so that one day we all become equal and women can walk freely without any fear. 
 
 
