PATNA: The late night arrest of   (BSSC) chairman Sudhir Kumar in connection with the   in   has not gone down well with the state’s bureaucrats.

 Hours after the arrest of Sudhir at Hazaribagh (Jharkhand), a delegation of the Bihar chapter of IAS Officers’ Association met chief secretary Anjani Kumar Singh in the morning and sought a CBI inquiry into the alleged scam. The delegation also met chief minister Nitish Kumar and apprised him of the displeasure of the association over Sudhir’s arrest. The association decided to bear all legal and other related expenses on Sudhir’s behalf.
 
 “The association is deeply angered and anguished over the manner in which the SIT has arrested the officer. We question the need to arrest the officer in such a hasty manner. The Supreme Court of India has given clear guidelines for the conditions suitable for making arrests in such cases, which include non-cooperation with the investigation or destroying the evidences. Sudhir was cooperating with the investigation and he was on leave for three days. The leave was duly sanctioned by the chief secretary. His arrest was completely unwarranted,” Dipak Kumar Singh, treasurer of Bihar Chapter of the   told TOI.
 
 Dipak added Sudhir had taken leave for three days and gone to Hazaribagh in neighbouring Jharkhand to look after his mother, who is not keeping well. “The SIT could have waited for Sudhir to resume duty in Patna. We do not understand what circumstances prompted the SIT to make Sudhir’s arrest at Hazaribagh at 11 in the night in front of his old parents. It was simply a move to humiliate him. We don’t have faith in the inquiry conducted by the SIT and demand that this matter be transferred to CBI,” said Dipak.
 
 The delegation told chief secretary and chief minister that Sudhir is one of the finest officers of the cadre and there is no doubt on his integrity. “Kumar has been one of the most honest, sincere and competent officers of the cadre. His service record is crystal clear and there have been no charges of corruption against him in his service record of past 30 years,” said Dipak.
 
 This is the third incident of action against IAS officers in Bihar in last one year. Earlier, senior IAS officer SM Raju (1991 batch) was suspended by the state government on January 12 after an FIR was lodged against him by the state vigilance investigation bureau on November 29 last year for alleged irregularities in disbursement of post-matric scholarship among SC/ST students pursuing technical education outside Bihar.
 
 Prior to that, the then Mohania SDO in Kaimur district Jitendra Gupta, an IAS officer of 2013 batch, was arrested on July 14 last year and subsequently suspended by the state government on the charges of demanding bribe from truck drivers. The state government, however, revoked his suspension on September 2 following grant of bail to him by Patna HC on August 9. The IAS association of Bihar had met the CM and submitted a memorandum over the arrest.
 
