Before you see the Tambats (coppersmiths) in the narrow crooked lanes of Tambat Ali (copper alley), you hear them as the sonorous sound of these artisans hammering out distinctive patterns on copper, rings out of the historic district named after them. 

 Walking past the warren-like workshops in this colony tucked in  , adjacent to  , is a step back in time. Even as the summer sun and July rains beat down fiercely on their tin-roofed workshops, tambats sit by the furnace working a sheet of shiny-brown copper before nudging it into shape. Once a thriving community of 400, they had migrated from the Konkan region to serve the religious and military needs of the Peshwas - crafting swords, shields, armours, ammunition, coins and kitchen utensils in copper for the royal family. 
 
 Despite their shrinking numbers, the 40-odd tambats that remain, continue to ply an old and honourable trade of matharkaam, the art of hand-beating copper. 
 
 Today, the medieval Kasba characterizes permanence amidst change, evident from the streets lined with centuries-old workshops on either side. 
 
 One such studio is where Kishore Karde, president of the  , is hunched over a copper jug applying lacquer over the dented art. Scattered about the mezzanine atelier are lamps, trays, coasters, floaters, carafes, tea lights, trinket boxes and eclectic tableware that articulate what has become their mission. "New techniques and designs taught to us by Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage (INTACH) has given new direction to our dying community," he says. 
 
 Struggles and stories of the tambats were known only to those who came looking for them until about ten years ago, when INTACH intervened and empowered the community with design ideas, new technology and a seed funding to reclaim ownership and sell their wares as individual pieces of art, rather than for daily wages or material weightage. A cooperative called Tambat Handicraft Sanstha too was formed. 
 
 Skilled in an intensive craft that calls for strength and keen eye-hand-foot coordination, Karde belongs to the generation of tambats absorbed by Pune's auto industry boom in the 50s. "I see hope again," says Karde who spends his superannuated days handcrafting the malleable metal when he isn't regaling visitors on a heritage walk in the precinct with tales about the community that claims its descent from Twashta, third son of Vishwakarma, Hindu god of architecture. 
 
 "When   drove Mughals out of Pune and Adil Shahi ordered the ploughing of fields using a donkey - seen as bad omen by people at the time - the artisan community including tambats had fled. Chhatrapati Shivaji on taking charge furrowed the deserted soil with a golden plough and re-established the bara balutedars," narrates Karde. 
 
 Seven generations of Tambats are said to have lived in Tambat Ali, passing the craft down generations. Once in demand for their fine work, the flourishing Tambat samaj, suffered a blow when the British banned ammunition during their reign. The advent of steel, plastic and new technology served as a substitute for the expensive alloy. Skilled in copper craft alone and lacking in education, tambats wandered off to other parts of Pune in search of livelihood.
 
 Given the push to revive the ancient craft, Tambats have been recovering from the setbacks of their past, bit by bit. Apart from earning a reasonable amount through exports today, they have also won over affluent patrons like star hotels, designers, architects and connoisseurs. Traditional vessels lying in dust and anonymity are being reinvented. "Someone from Canada bought a copper tank to store beer," smiles  , one of the four women pursuing a craft dominated by men. 
 
 Bhalchandra Kadu, a seventh-generation tambat these days is teaching the craft to design students. "Art colleges don't go beyond basics. I've taught around 1500 already and intend to teach another 5000 so that our art lives on through them," he says. Kadu's son, however, is now a human resource manager, a story common across the community with younger generations drifting to jobs that pay more. 
 
 At 39, Ganesh Wadke is the youngest tambat and most likely the last generation pursuing their "paramparik" or ancestral work. "On our wish list is a program to engage youngsters to take the craft up as an enterprise," says Supriya Mahabaleshwarkar, coordinator, INTACH Pune. 
 
 The weather-beaten hands in these alleys soldier on even as their plight remains uncertain. Karde explains: "At the banks of River Narmada the gods had conspired and killed all Twashtas in a battle. And although we played fair, we lost. We cannot be defeated again."
 
