MUMBAI: In a significant ruling, a Thane consumer disputes redressal forum has held a builder guilty of non-compliance of an order passed nine years ago and sentenced him to two years simple imprisonment. The forum also imposed a fine of Rs 10,000 on the builder, R D Mishra, for failing to hand over a Navi Mumbai flat along with Rs 50,000 in damages to a buyer, as directed by the forum in April 2008. The ruling comes as a ray of hope for consumers who, when faced with an unexecuted order, must brace for a fresh round of legal battle. Activists allege that builders often don't comply with consumer forum orders, either fully or partially. On January 4, the forum convicted Mishra, proprietor of  , over one such non-compliance application filed by Andheri resident Jagjit Gulhati.

 Forum chief A Z Telgote and member Tryambak Thool found Mishra had failed to hand over the flat within the promised time despite getting the entire sum of Rs 8 lakh. In April 2008, based on the buyer's complaint of defici ency in service, the forum had directed Mishra to hand over the flat to Gulhati with all the amenities, Rs 50,000 as compensation for mental agony and Rs 2,000 towards litigation expenses--within two months. It also directed him to pay Rs 200 per day for each day's delay. However, more than 100 months later, the buyer's wait for possession did not end.
 
 The builder challenged the 2008 order all the way to the   and lost--the apex court upheld the forum's order. Mishra said the flat was not handed over to the buyer as he had not made the complete payment and was yet to shell out Rs 1 lakh. The builder said he was ready to give the possession, but was waiting for the balance amount. The buyer said he had paid the full amount.
 
 The forum observed that the builder's argument about the amount due to him was “raised for the first time“ and that after the April 2013 Supreme Court order, it was “obligatory for him to hand over possession immediately“ which he failed to do, making him liable to face punishment. The forum also observed that till June 2015, the building was not completed as the builder had stated in the affidavit that work on installation of a lift was yet to be completed. On January 4, the forum held that the builder's version about money being due to him could not be re lied uponand said, “He deliberately av oided complian ce of the order and de prived the buyer of his legitimate right since 2008.“ The Consumer Protection Act provides for penal action when a person fails to comply with an order.
 
 Hailing the order, consumer activist   said, “It is not common at all for builders to be sent to prison for failing to comply with a consumer forum or a commission order. Orders like these are rare and serve to send a warning to builders that they should set their house in order.''
 
