PUNE: Shresthi Datir, Vaibhavi Panse, Sanskruti Pawar of AW Sindhu Vidya Bhavan won the first prize at the   held by Muktangan Vidnyan Shodhika at   and Astrophysics (IUCAA) recently. Almost 60 schools participated in this competition.

 These students, all from standard IX, had designed the 'Sextant instrument', a doubly reflecting navigation tool used in ships to measure the angle between any two visible objects. The team was guided by facilitator Susheela Gupta.
 
 Somak Raychaudhari, director of the IUCAA, presented the awards to the winners.
 
 
 
 
 The team from  , comprising Akhilesh Khambekar of Std IX, Aayush Manchalwar of Std VIII and Harsh Patil of Std VII, bagged the first prize in an interschool science quiz competition organised on the occasion of the silver jubilee year celebration of Muktangan Exploratory Science Centre at   recently. The winning team won a rolling trophy and a cash prize of Rs 2,000. The competition aimed at developing scientific temperament and awareness among children.
 
 At BRPS, the students were shortlisted after a written quiz contest held at the school. The team competed against 60 other teams from different schools in Pune in the final round.
 
 
 
 
 Amanora School recently celebrated National Science Day to commemorate CV Raman's Nobel Prize winning discovery . On the occasion, the school organised a `science talk competition' to stimulate scientific temperament and disseminate information among students.Seven students from Std VIII and IX were selected after the preliminary round.
 
 Talks were delivered on an array of topics, stating noteworthy facts in science. The students also presented poems on the impor tance of science and irrationality of superstitions.
 
 Vinod Sharma, general manager, marketing and school management of Pearson, urged students to be inquisitive, observant and rational to propel the process of learning.
 
 Purva Puri of Std IX was awarded `the best speaker' award while Om Ransingh bagged the runners-up spot.The winners were felicitated by Vinod Sharma, principal Meera Nair and Parshvdeep Singh, cluster head, Pearson.
 
 
 
 
 The Trinity International School recently organised an exhibition of their International School Award (ISA) projects on the occasion of the founder's day .
 
 From pre-primary to Std VIII, classes were assigned different topics to work on throughout the year. Some of the highlights were mapping symmetry in the seven wonders of the world, which were presented by Std IV . Std V and VI students worked on world heritage sites. They also collaborated with the Tathva International School in Tokyo, Japan and exchanged their research work through a Skype session.
 
 Rainwater harvesting was the topic taken up by Std VII students. They not only created a blog to spread awareness, but also showcased their learning with a miniature working model of a rooftop rainwater harvesting system.
 
 The students also displayed various works of art, created by them, throughout the year.
 
