PATNA: A Bihar minister’s call to beat the photograph of PM   with   of protest against the Centre’s demonetisation move, drew flak from different political quarters in the state on Wednesday.

 Prohibition, excise and registration minister Abdul Jalil   of the Congress was caught on camera, asking a crowd at Amour, the minister’s constituency in Purnia district, on February 22 to beat the PM’s photograph with shoes. The video, telecast recently by a news channel, shows Mastan recalling the PM’s remark that he was prepared to face any punishment if he failed to end people’s woes within 50 days of demonetization.
 
 At the call of Mastan, a few people in the crowd also beat a PM’s photo kept on the dais with their shoes.
 
 “It is wrong to make such an uncharitable remark against anyone,” CM   said on Wednesday.
 
 Nitish’s cabinet colleagues belonging to the JD (U), RJD and even Congress also condemned Mastan’s call. “Anyone occupying a minister’s post should not make such comments against the country’s PM. At the same time, however, I request PM Modi not to dispute the DNA of any chief minister and not to describe an ex-PM as an ‘expert in bathing with his raincoat on’. If a PM begins the trend of using undignified language, the standard of language of others is bound to fall,” said deputy CM Tejashwi Prasad Yadav of the RJD.
 
 Tejashwi, who is the younger son of RJD chief  , was apparently referring to the PM’s remark in the past against CM Nitish and ex-PM Manmohan Singh.
 
 Lalu himself did not approve Mastan’s comment, but described the BJP as a “fascist party” and referred to the “repeated poisonous comments” of BJP MP Sakshi Maharaj against minority communities.
 
 State Congress president and education minister Ashok Choudhary said his party was always against such objectionable comments. 
 
 A chastened Mastan later expressed regret. “If my utterances have hurt anybody, I express regret,” he told reporters outside the Bihar assembly. 
 
 Talking to reporters earlier in the morning, however, Mastan had said he had left the Amour function in 10 minutes and did not know what had happened after that.
 
 Criminal case against minister: A Hajipur-based lawyer,  , on Wednesday filed a criminal case against state prohibition minister   and 500 unknown persons in the court of Hajipur CJM. The complaint accuses them of insulting the PM.
 
