Chennai:   public health authorities on Monday reported the first case of   from a sleepy hamlet in Krishnagiri district in the state, nearly two months after the World Health Organization confirmed three cases in India.

 On June 26, a 28-year-old tailor in Natranpalayam Panchayat, arrived at the Anchetty Primary Health Centre with fever, redness of the eyes, photophobia (eye discomfort or pain from exposure to light), skin rashes and joint pain — all warning signs of the mosquito-borne disease.
 
 After doctors conducted tests and ruled out dengue, chikungunya, malaria, leptospirosis and scrub typhus, they sent the patient’s blood and urine samples to Manipal Centre of   Research, Manipal on June 30. The next day, the centre confirmed Zika virus via a real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test. National Institute of Virology, Pune, also confirmed the test five days later, but by then the patient had almost recovered.
 
 “There were traces of the virus only in the urine sample,” health secretary Dr J Radhakrishnan said.
 
 To avert any alarm, health officials waited for more than 10 days after the man tested positive to announce the state’s first Zika case.
 
 Zika can be passed from a pregnant woman to her fetus, causing birth defects like microcephaly — brain damage caused by abnormally small heads. Infected people can pass on the virus to others through sex, blood transfusion and via the Aedes mosquito.
 
 Researchers and pharmaceutical companies are yet to develop an effective vaccine or medicine for Zika.
 
 The patient in Krishnagiri has recovered completely, said Dr Radhakrishnan, who visited the man at his home over the weekend with a team of public health officials.
 
 “We also undertook vector control measures in the area,” he said. “We worked to eliminate disease-spreading mosquitoes in a radius of 5km from his residence.”
 
 WHO in May 2017 announced that it had received reports about the first cases in India from the Union ministry of health and family welfare — six months after three women in Ahmedabad, Gujarat, tested positive for the virus in November 2016, a delay officials attributed to the government’s apprehension that a public announcement could trigger a panic.
 
 Health officials in Tamil Nadu decided to go public about the case on Monday to create awareness about the disease.
 
 “The disease is here. There is no point in keeping it a secret,” Dr Radhakrishnan said. “We want doctors to keep their eyes open to this disease and we want patients to meet a doctor as soon as they experience symptoms.”
 
 “So far 40,000 people have been tested for Zika in the country,” ICMR director general Dr Soumya Swaminathan said at a press conference on Monday. “The patient from Tamil Nadu is the fourth known Zika case in the country. Three positive cases were [earlier] reported from Gujarat. It is a low-prevalence disease and has so far not been virulent. We have not seen the mother to child transmission of the disease so far.”
 
 The Union ministry of health and family welfare is, however, planning a nationwide study to see if Zika caused microcephaly in the country.
 
 “We are planning a national study to collect data on the antibody status of dengue in 15 states,” Dr Swaminathan said. “If at least 75% of the population have dengue antibodies, caused by the same mosquito that causes Zika, the research body will recommend a vaccination programme.”
 
 Tamil Nadu health minister C Vijayabaskar said state officials have been actively screening patients for the virus in the last two years,” he said. “We are able to detect the virus at King Institute [of Preventive Medicine & Research], Chennai, with kits for tests we received from the Centre. King Institute has done nearly 200 tests this year but, in this case, we sent samples to Manipal because it was closer to his residence.”
 
 “As of now we don’t know how our patient was infected because he does not have a [lengthy] travel history. He has only travelled to neighbouring states,” director of public health Dr K Kolandaisamy said.
 
 Signs and symptoms of Zika virus usually begin two to seven days after being bitten by an infected mosquito. Most people with the viral infection show no symptoms, but others may have a fever, rash, and joint pain apart from a headache, red eyes (conjunctivitis) and fatigue.
 
 Scientists in 1947 first isolated the virus in the Zika Forest (zika meaning ‘overgrown’ in the local Luganda language) in Uganda, Africa. While researching yellow fever, they placed a rhesus macaque in a cage that developed a fever. The researchers isolated from its serum a transmissible agent that they described as the Zika virus in 1952.
 
 Scientists first documented an outbreak of Zika among people in 2007 in the Micronesia archipelago in the western Pacific Ocean. The disease attracted worldwide attention in 2015 after an outbreak in Brazil in 2015 led to a surge in babies born with microcephaly. WHO declared Zika a global health emergency in February 2016.
 
 
