CHENNAI: A consumers’ forum, pulling a switch on the railways’ train of thought regarding its “service motives and customer-centric attitude”, fined the state-owned organisation Rs 15,000 for the shoddy state of a toilet on one of its coaches.

 D Gabriel, of the Indian Coast Guard and a resident of Royapuram, told the district consumer disputes redressal forum, north Chennai, that he was returning to Chennai from Delhi on a 3-tier   coach on March 9, 2013.
 
 After boarding the train at Nizamuddin station, he found there was “not a drop of water” in the coach’s toilet. The flush and washbasin were not functioning and the toilet had a foul odour.
 
 He informed a TTE about the problem and received an assurance that the railways would rectify it at the next station.
 
 But there was no improvement and, around 5am, when Gabriel went to use the toilet, it still had no water. He bought several bottles of drinking water to use the toilet.
 
 He registered a complaint in the TTE grievance book and an SMS complaint. The next month he sent an email to officials concerned and received a reply that the railways had fined the contractor responsible Rs 3,000. Gabriel moved the consumer forum, claiming compensation for deficiency in services.
 
 Denying the arguments, railways officials said Duronto Express coaches received good maintenance, their toilets were clean and water tanks filled. Gabriel had only informed the TTE about a stuck toilet flush, and staff members rectified this within 10 minutes, they said. Gabriel, who was also rude with the TTE, could have used toilets in other connected coaches. His complaint was “misleading and baseless”, they said.
 
 A bench of president   and member T Kalaiyarasi said the TTE and two passengers had signed as witnesses in the complaint book. They endorsed and did not refute the complaint, it said. Railways officials replied to Gabriel’s email, saying they had taken action against the contractor, and this buttressed his claim.
 
 It directed the GM, headquarters, Northern Railway, and the GM, Southern Railway, to pay Gabriel Rs 10,000 as compensation for causing mental agony and Rs 5,000 as case costs.
 
 
