JODHPUR:   sitting on a dharna for the past two days here with a   for the   found support from eunuchs on Tuesday.

 Lending their voice to the demand of victims, the eunuchs also demanded from the government to address their problems.
 
 It may be recalled that the   victims have been demanding timely release of funds since long besides ensuring adequate safety arrangements in the stone quarries.
 
 With these demands, the silicosis victims began a two-day dharna at the district collectorate on Monday and shouted slogans against the state government besides submitting a memorandum to the district collector.
 
 General secretary of Rajasthan State Mine Labour Union Bansilal said that the remittance of the compensation to the silicosis victims has been taking so long, because of they are compelled to suffer longer.
 
 “Besides this, there were no serious efforts to stop the occurrence of this occupation disease in absence of the determination by the labour and the mining department to ensure safety measures in the stone mines and quarries,” he said.
 
 Another activist Rekha Saini said that the reports certifying silicosis among these victims by the Pneumoconiosis Board are not being released on time and this delay is further delaying the compensation to them. 
 
 They also demanded from the government to make the oxygen cylinders available in the areas of mine workers so that they do not have to be bothered about its availability and price.
 
 On the other hand, referring to the compensation to the silicosis patients, ADM Manaram Patel said that so far Rs. 18.60 crore have been disbursed to the silicosis victims both dead and alive in entire Jodhpur district.
 
 “We currently have 735 cases of Silicosis victims both dead and alive are pending with us, of which 80 are about to be cleared very soon,” said Patel.
 
 In a recently held meeting on the issue, the chairman of the Rajasthan State Human Rights Organisation, Justice Prakash Tatia had said that there should not be any delay in providing the financial assistance to the patients diagnosed with the silicosis.
 
 
