BENGALURU: The members of the Rice family, in the city to attend the centenary celebrations of the   on Avenue Road – named after one of their forbears, Reverend   – renewed what is, in more ways than one, a sanguinary connection with Bengaluru. Three successive generations of the Rice family — Benjamin Holt, Benjamin Lewis (BL) and Harold Douglas (HD) — have left indelible imprints on the pages of Karnataka’s history . 

 For  , who has come to the city from London, it is a sort of homecoming. "My great-grandfather, BL Rice was born here, and served the state of Mysore. His father, the Reverend spent 50 years here, and ultimately died in the city. We visited his grave at the cemetery near Richmond Town," he said. 
 
 Benjamin Holt’s son BL Rice is revered among Kannada academicians as Purathathva Pitamaha (grand old man of inscriptions) for his pioneering work in translating more than 9,000 Kannada inscriptions. His work was compiled in the compendious Epigraphica Carnatica, which runs into 12 volumes. 
 
 SL Srinivasamurthy, a Kannada scholar who has authored a book on Bl Rice, said, "Through him, Kannadigas learnt of the rich heritage of their language."
 
 Among his other accomplishments can be counted his contribution to Mysore state’s education policy in the capacity of the first director of public instructions. He opened the united Mission High School for Boys on Mission Road in Bengaluru – an institution that counts Sir M Visvesvaraya among its alumni.
 
 BL’s son Harold Douglas kept alive his family’s longstanding ties with Karnataka, making a huge contribution to the state’s irrigation infrastructure. Harold Douglas was an assistant engineer in the team that built the Vani Vilas Sagar Dam across the Vedavathi River in Chitradurga, the construction of which was commissioned in 1897.
 
 DW Rice, who visited the dam, said that while the dam was well maintained, the government needed to ensure effective garbage management at the site. He was also part of the team that developed a railway line that connected Mysuru and Nanjangud. He also developed the road on Chamundi Hills in Mysuru.
 
 "I visited Mysuru, and it felt as if I was conversing with my ancestors," said Benjamin Rice, DW’s son. 
 
 
