KANNUR: Tension prevailed at the 57th State School Arts Festival and the city as the police denied BJP permission to take out the funeral procession of a slain worker through the road in front of Police Ground, the festival venue, on Thursday. 

  protested the police decision and sat on the road till district collector   intervened and held talks with the leaders. Following the talks, the police allowed the ambulance and two cars to pass through the road to the Old Bus Stand, where the body of E Santosh was kept for the public to pay homage.
 
 Santosh was attacked at his house at Andaloor in Dharmadam late on Wednesday. He died while being shifted to a hospital. The Old Bus Stand is located some 400 metres from the festival venue. Police initially denied permission for the funeral procession, fearing untoward incidents, around 2.30pm.
 
 The Sangh Parivar, however, stood firm on its stand that it would take out the procession in front of the venue. The party has been holding CPM responsible for Santosh's murder.
 
 "It is the same party which controls the government and the arts festival here. It organized this murder as well, and there is no logic in the argument that we should not take the funeral procession through the road near the venues," said  , a senior RSS functionary.
 
 The leaders also informed the police that if denied permission, the body would be kept there itself.
 
 The BJP and RSS also alleged that the mismanagement of the police and the ego of some senior police officials, including district police chief K P Philip, worsened the situation.
 
 "When the police demanded there should not be huge procession and no loudspeakers, we agreed. But when they denied permission to take the procession along the main road, we felt it bit too odd and a humiliation to the body of a martyr," said BJP general secretary K Surendran, who addressed the Sangh Parivar workers who staged a sit-in near the bus stand. "The CPM, which accuses the BJP of threatening to exile the people with dissenting voice to other countries, is actually sending its opponents to the 'yamaloka'," he said.
 
 The police chief explained to party leaders that the permission was denied fearing a law and order situation. BJP leaders said such apprehensions were baseless.
 
  Collector Ali reached the scene around 4.30pm, and after discussions with the protesters, allowed them to take out the procession.
 
 
