JAIPUR:   whip   on Tuesday accused the state government of deceiving ‘Vidhyarthi Mitra’ who were seeking reinstatement as teachers in rural schools. 

 Dotasra said chief minister Vasundhara Raje, during her Suraj Sankalp Yatra ahead of the 2013   elections, assured ‘Vidhyarthi Mitra’ that they would be absorbed into regular government service.
 
 Raising the issue during Zero Hour, Dotasra said, “The latest recruitment exercise to induct teachers in panchayat schools is a sham and a conspiracy to weaken the agitation of 26,000 Vidhyarthi Mitra. There are no clear rules about how these Vidhyarthi Mitra will be evaluated against the vacancies or which department will pay them remunerations.” The Congress leader claimed that 56 Vidhyarthi Mitra committed suicides because of the government’s failure to fulfill its promise.
 
 Panchayati Raj minister Rajendra Rathore responded by saying that the government was committed to improving education standards in rural areas and process was on to hire experienced hands against fixed stipends. “Vidhyarthi Mitra approached the high court, which ruled on October 21, 2013, that their recruitment was illegal and unconstitutional,” Rathore said, adding that the government was now recruiting ‘gram panchayat sahayak’. “State   has provided Rs 200 crore for their remunerations,” the minister said.
 
 
 
 
 NPP MLA Kirori Lal Meena raised the issue of leopard attacks on villagers in Sariska forest and demanded an action plan for the safety of people residing on the forest periphery in Alwar district where six persons have been killed since September 2016.
 
 Meena wanted to know why two leopards, identified as man-eaters by the forest department, were released from Jaipur zoo into the Sariska forest. “Four persons were killed in leopard attacks after the release of these man-eaters,” Meena said.
 
 Demanding action against persons responsible for releasing the man-eater leopards back into forest, the NPP legislator asked the government to increase compensation for kin of those killed in big cat attacks.
 
 Forest minister Gajendra Singh Khimsar replied that keeping an animal in zoo by terming it man-eater without proof was against the wildlife Act. He added that one of the leopards caught this month was most likely the animal that attacked humans. “Its canines, which are missing, and its pugmarks indicate that it is the same animal that killed three persons recently,” Khimsar said.
 
 At the same time, the minister clarified that the confirmation whether it was the man-eater or not would be made only after the leopard’s saliva reports were received. “Saliva samples have been sent to Hyderabad and the report is expected in next two-three weeks,” Khimsar said.
 
 
 
 
 Public works department minister Yunus Khan, while responding to rural roads issue raised by   MLA Sukhram, informed the House that the state government was preparing a ‘District Rural Road Plan’, which will be completed by March 10.
 
 “Details like the year of construction of roads, status of maintenance and present status will be included in the plan,” Khan said, adding that the government repaired and renewed 14,000 km of roads in the state.
 
 
