PUNE:   is concerned about the growing use of the internet by his two sons, aged 10 and 14. While the   allows his children to explore the  , threats of   of online identities are a constant worry for him. Siddiqui admits he has never discussed passwords of online accounts with his boys, but believes they usually keep it simple.

 City-based cyber security experts point out that a large chunk of internet users are at risk of attacks online because of  , especially children, who often share their passwords with friends, family or relatives, hence creating a threat to their digital security.
 
 A strong password is the first line of defence of the internet user against intruders and imposters, and if compromised, it exposes an individual to vulnerabilities such as data theft, hacking and invasion of privacy, advise those working on cyber security issues.
 
 Sukrit Maitre, circle business head (Maharashtra and Goa) at Telenor India Communications, said, “Though India is home to the second largest internet population in the world, majority of users, especially children, are exposed to cyber threats due to weak and easy-to-guess passwords. We should understand the significance of using strong passwords and secure our identity in the digital world.”
 
 The latest Telenor India’s report indicates that a whopping 98.8% of children in urban areas use the internet and 54.6% of those surveyed use ‘weak passwords’, typically consisting of only alphabets or numbers and which are less than 8 characters.
 
 The report mapped password habits, internet usage and access patterns of schoolgoing children in 13 Indian cities and covered 2,700 students.
 
 Earlier this year, the 2016 ‘Norton Cyber Security Insights Report: Family Edition’ too revealed a similar pattern. According to the report, while 40 per cent of Indian parents allowed their children to access the internet before age 11, many had wide range of concerns, especially cyber bullying, which emerged as a concern for more than half (54%) of the respondents in India.
 
 Multi-player gaming platforms online, especially popular during summer vacations, are typical spots where children are likely to falter, cautions Altaf Halde, managing director of Kaspersky Lab South Asia. “Not only are the account passwords on such gaming portals easy to crack, children interacting with other players on the open chat rooms here also tend to share a lot of personal information easily, such as email addresses, credit card details etc, which can have serious consequences. Parents must always keep a track of what their children are accessing online,” he said.
 
