BENGALURU: The Supreme Court order saying seeking votes in the name of religion or caste would be considered a corrupt electoral practice, may not have much of an impact on political parties in Karnataka.

 Though all three major parties — Congress, BJP and JD(S) — depend on caste and identity politics, experts said the parties will be able to find ways to circumvent the SC ruling.
 
 “The Supreme Court order is a mere reassertion of its earlier stand. Given the ingenuity of our parties and their leaders, they will find a way to say what they think will pay them rich electoral dividends. Use of caste and religion in campaign politics will cease only when politicians notice that voters have moved beyond these issues,” said Sandeep Shastri, a political analyst.
 
 Political expert Harish Ramaswamy said implementation of the order would be difficult. “Identity politics came to Karnataka quite late, but has taken primacy over real issues in the state,” he said.
 
 Political commentator  , however, said the order could alter political equations. “Traditionally, caste has dominated politics here. All three main political parties are divided on caste lines with BJP enjoying the support of lingayats, JD(S) of vokkaligas and Congress of minorities, scheduled castes, scheduled tribes and other backward classes,” he said.
 
 The dominant social groups in Karnataka, the lingayats and vokkaligas, were united till the 1990s and fought elections against the Congress, which was supported by OBCs, dalits and minorities. Today, the two castes oppose each other, with each trying to get a major share of power.
 
 Until the ’90s, the two castes made a common enemy of the Congress and its pro-poor policies such as land reforms, which threatened their standing in society. Now, with the era of Congress’ social reform agenda gone, lingayats and vokkaligas, particularly after the 2004 elections, have started supporting BJP and JD(S) respectively.
 
 With the growth of Devaraj Urs, the Congress gained a new and strong vote bank among the minorities, scheduled castes and other backward classes. The ruling Congress led by   has drawn from Urs’ legacy by giving preferential treatment to Ahinda (a Kannada acronym for minorities, backward classes and Dalits) communities hoping to win back their support ahead of the 2018 assembly polls. The Congress is on the verge of releasing a caste survey to prepare its strategy in the 2018 polls.
 
 Despite the strong division along caste lines, parties have given the SC order a thumbs up. “The SC order is good but the problem is that it is practically difficult to adopt. The   introduced reforms to check electoral corruption but most remain on paper. Political parties and religious organisations should ensure that the SC order is implemented,” said JD(S) leader  .
 
 BJP leader S Suresh Kumar said the order was a step towards reversing the trend of voting along caste lines. “I believe all political parties should fights polls on the development plank, and leave behind caste,” he said.
 
 Congress leader Ivan D’Souza said politicians had ignored the Representation of the People Act, 1951, which clearly said that parties should not seek votes on caste and religion. “Now that the Supreme Court has passed a judgment, the Election Commission should look implement the rule in the interest of the state and the country,” he said.
 
