Bhopal: A day after more than 200 families of tribal-dominated Betul district were slapped with a penalty of Rs 10 lakh for defecating in open, 80% of them have begun constructing toilets. 

 Officials said they were fed up with non-participation of local community in the ODF drive and after repeated counselling to give up the practice, notices were served under Madhya Pradesh Gram Panchayat (Swatchhta Safai Tahat Nuisance Nivaran Evam Upsaman) 1999 at the rate of Rs 250 per family member per day. 
 
 In a village where 43 families were served notices on Monday, 30 of them have reported that they have started digging pits for constructing toilets.
 
 “Our block Amla is lagging in the entire district. We tried all that we could do to counsel people—met them, held meetings and made them aware of the problems arising out of defecating in open. But, people were not ready to co-operate. We have around 6,300 houses (not individual families) without toilets, the highest in the district.
 
 On September 15, when a drive was undertaken to dig pits for toilets across the state, we had set a target of 4,000 pits of which 1,500 were dug. Officials, representatives and government workers have dug pits, but locals remained apathetic to the cause,” Amla janpad panchayat CEO, Praveen Kumar Ibne told TOI. 
 
 “So, ultimately on September 17 we decided to act under the provisions of the rules already available. It states that anyone creating nuisance by spreading filth can be penalised at the rate of Rs 250 per day for doing so. And defecating in open comes under that. So, in two days we have issued notices worth around Rs 10 lakh to people from four village panchayats. Two families in Lambakhedi have been slapped with a fine of Rs 75,000 each.
 
 And now, within two days nearly 80% of the people who have been issued notices have started digging pits for constructing toilets in their houses, they have informed us. We had given three days’ time in the notices, but most have rushed to us within a day. Yesterday, we issued notice to 43 families of Lambakhedi and 30 of these families said they have started digging pits for constructing toilets today. Our intention behind these notices is to make people quit the habit of open defecation.”
 
 If anyone is adamant, we would follow due process for recovery of the penalties,” Ibne said. 
 
 Sources said that the highest penalty was imposed on the family of one Kunvarlal, resident of Lamakhedi village.
 
 
