CHENNAI: It may still be a while before you buy that vibrator off the shelves of your neighbourhood superstore. And businesses bringing you   in India know this well, which is why they are now taking their responsibility for discretion a notch higher by camouflaging their wares as everyday essentials from lipsticks and mascaras to brushes.

 “Some of our new products are disguised as general  , so that they don't invite curiosity or suspicion. Of these, 'The Womanizer' and 'Max' are our be stsellers,“ says Raj Armani, co-founder, Imbesharam.com, an adult web store.
 
 'Max'is a male masturbator with an “innovative software that makes it one of the trendiest sex toys for men,“ reads Imbesharam's description of the product on its website. Except that it looks a lot like chapstick. And 'Womanizer', which can pass off as lipstick, comes with an innovative technology called PleasureAir, to “improve intimate health and overall wellbeing.“
 
 While this is a clever marketing tactic for companies selling  , it is also how they stay afloat against touchy and, at times ambiguous, laws surrounding their business in the country .
 
 “We have to 're-present' certain products and classify them under the closest-looking category of products.This helps in selling online, as it reduces restrictions," says Armani. According to reports, Chennai airport's customs department received 342 parcels of adult toys in the last financial year. 
 
 Officials reportedly responded by calling those who had placed these orders, and letting them off with a warning and a fine of Rs 5,000. However, officials from the department of central excise and customs in Chennai were not available to speak when contacted by TOI.
 
 “The import of adult toys is banned. They fall under the list of prohibited items under the Customs Act of 1962,“ says senior lawyer  . But Section 11 of the Customs Act goes only as far as to prohibit the import or export of goods that disrupt “public order and standards of decency or morality".
 
 “If the import of these products is banned, it naturally makes selling them illegal too,“ says Chennai lawyer  . “But, then, the classification of what can and cannot be imported is modified by the customs department. With a right-wing regime, anything that deals with sexuality is made a taboo,“ she adds.
 
 Tightening the rope further for these businesses are sections such as 67, 67A and 67B of the Information Technology (IT) Act, 2008, that forbid the promotion of “obscene" products online.
 
 “For instance, we can sell massagers, but not dildos,"says Divya Chauhan, co-founder of Mumbai-based online adult store Itspleazure.
 
 Although just taking off, the sexual wellness market in India is estimated at Rs 1,200 crore and expected to scale up to over Rs 2,000 crore by 2020.
 
