
"I love Indian clothes and on my last trip to India, I made sure I got one sari. When I saw   online trending online, I couldn't stop myself from posting my picture with this hashtag," says Sher, a fashion designer from  .
 Just like Sher there are several other people from across the globe who in the past few weeks have posted several pictures of themselves in Indian attire outside a traditional Indian door. This activity is a part of an online campaign #TheDoorChallenge which was started by Doonite  . The campaign became viral in a day and posts on social media started pouring from different countries like Australia, USA, India, Afghanistan, Pakistan, and Germany to name a few.
 
 
 The campaign is an initiative to promote ethnic Indian attire among youngsters. Anurag Chauhan, a 21-year-old social activist from Doon who started the campaign, says, "For the past five years, I have only been wearing Indian attire. I want to break the stereotypes that men don't wear ethnic outfits like salwars or shawls in everyday life. I just wanted to make my own style statement."
 He adds, "Appreciation from the fashion industry inspired me to come up with #TheDoorChallenge. I requested my friends to wear ethnic dresses and post pictures clicked in front of antique doors. My aim is to promote Indian   and culture. It was widely appreciated on social media, especially by artists from across the globe. The challenge started with me, a Doonite, and it went global with people from countries like Pakistan, Australia, Canada and Egypt posting their pictures online with this hashtag."
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Sher says, "I love Indian attire, especially the shawls and saris. On my trip to India, I had got this amazing sari which I am not able to wear in Australia but, when I saw this challenge online, I thought of it as a chance to flaunt my sari. So I took it up and posted my picture outside this traditional Indian outdoor at my place in Australia. A lot of Indian clothes have also been an inspiration for my collection. Seeing my posts, my friends in Australia bought ethnic Indian clothes and joined the challenge."
  
  
  
 
 Sakul Intakul, a floral designer from Thailand, says, “I love India and I am always fascinated by Indian culture. Traditional Rajasthani attire inspired the dress I wore for this door challenge. Being a part of this campaign was great fun. Also, it is heartwarming to connect with   in such a colourful and innovative way. It is a joy to see so many people coming together through this door challenge.”
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Satvika Goyal, a model from Dallanwala, Dehradun, says, "Anurag is a friend and when he posted the challenge online, I got really excited. Doon has a lot of beautiful doors and I posed in my best Indian outfits outside a few of these doors in the city. As a model, I often get to experiment with different attires, but there is always something special about ethnic Indian wear. They are colourful and remind you of your roots."
 
 Pallavi Kodan, a writer and a social activist from Doon, says, "This challenge is an attempt to revive our culture and heritage and remind people that we have a beautiful past which we should stay connected with. I got clicked opposite a door with an antique old style handle to it. But I am sure I have been successful in giving out the message of loving one’s history and culture to the world."
 
  
  
 
 
 Usha RK, a Delhi-based art consultant, says, "Dwara or traditional doors has been a subject that has intrigued me for a long time. The reference to the door is very strong in Indian classical arts, whether dance or music. So for me being a part of this campaign was really exciting as it had a traditional attire and a traditional door as major elements to it."
 
  
  
 
 
