Pune: The public transport in the city may be hit on Tuesday due to the ‘chakka jam’ (road blockade) agitation called by the   to protest against the increased transport fees.

 From the first week of January, the Union government has revised the transport-related fees while hiking late fees for permit renewals and charges for other documents. The transporters across all sectors have opposed these revisions claiming that “the hike was steep and unjustifiable”. They have demanded urgent rollback, failure of which will invite stronger protests. 
 
 Bapu Bhave, leader of the school transport and autorickshaw federation, said rickshaw drivers have extended their full support to the protest. “Also, vans and buses involved in ferrying children to school will also take part in the agitation,” he said. 
 
 Rickshaw Panchayat, city’s largest federation of  , has planned a rally from its office up to the district collector’s office to condemn the fees hike. Nitin Pawar, federation’s office-bearer, said most commercial transporters will join the   protest.
 
 “The issue is not only pertaining to Pune. We have also gained support from various parts of the state. The transporters at various district headquarters have decided to go ahead with the agitation on Tuesday. The government cannot ignore our stand. The transporters were not taken into confidence by the government while reaching to a decision of revising the fees. This is an illogical revision. We want the government to explain as to how it can increase the fees by up to three times at one go,” Pawar said. 
 
 The Maharashtra State Motor Driving School Association has also expressed its support. The association said work at the office of the Regional Transport Office will be hit on Tuesday. The agitation has also received support of the tempo and three-wheeler transporters. 
 
 Meanwhile, the state government has said it will procure private vehicles, including cars, to ensure uninterrupted supply of essential commodities such as milk, vegetables during the agitation. 
 
