PATNA: The once busy roadside makeshift shops trading in handloom and khadi clothes and having tailors to stitch kurta-pyjama and bundi off Beerchand Patel Path wear a desolate look nowadays due to double whammy they have suffered in the wake of ‘notebandi’ and then goods and services tax ( ) regime. 

 Curiously, the ‘kurta-bundi’ that used to be most in demand was the ‘Narendra Modi cut’ during 2014-15, especially after he became the PM. “Today, his style is not in much demand. People have reverted to the ‘JP kurta-cut’ and the ‘Jawahar cut’. Of late, the full ‘kurta’ style of Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi has started coming in vogue,” said Naseem Ahmad, who has his shop in that area. 
 
 However, the demand for khadi and handloom kurta, pyjama and bundi has dipped terribly. “The current sales are anywhere between 20 to 50% of what used to be before the ‘notebandi’ in November last year. When the GST was introduced, customers vanished,” said Mohammad Sultan from Jehanabad.
 
 Sultan has stacked khadi and handloom clothes from Bhagalpur and Madhubani in Bihar, as well as from the southern states like Andhra Pradesh. “By popular taste, the demand used to be for handloom items from south India, because they have glaze. Youths preferred them. But now it has become a thing of the past,” Sultan said. 
 
 The net sales of clothes with Mohammad Ziaur Rehman Ansari from Madhubani, who also has his shop beside that of Sultan, is “not even 20%” of that before ‘notebandi.’ “If the situation persists, I may have to close the shop. Actually, I don’t know what I will do after that,” Ansari said, adding that he has been in the profession for the last 25 years. The khadi and handloom clothes he sells are from Bhagalpur, Madhubani and Murshidabad in West Bengal.
 
 What is equally galling is that the tailors, who get money on the number of clothes they stitch, also sit idle. This is the fate of tailors attached to the shops of Mohammad Chunnu Master, Ifteqar Khan and Naseem Ahmad, among others.
 
 Some of them get their clothes on full payment, while the rest make the part payment to the dealers when they purchase and repay the dues in weekly instalments over a month. “The business works on credit system, depending on credibility,” said Naseem, who used to earn a profit of around Rs50,000 during festive seasons before ‘notebandi’, but now remains satisfied with a monthly earning of around Rs15,000 only.
 
 
