THRISSUR: United Nurses Association (UNA) has decided to defer its indefinite strike that was all set to begin on July 17 at private hospitals in Kerala.   took this decision after high court issued a directive to hold talks on July 19. UNA leaders said the chief minister's office (CMO) had also informed nurses about the willingness to launch mediation efforts and this also contributed to the decision. However, other forms of agitations such as the fast and dharna in front of the secretariat and district collectorates will continue, said UNA president Jasminsha.

 “Mediation talks will be held at the high court on June 19 and we will be sending a legal team. We have decided to defer the strike based on the legal advice,“ he said.
 
 Jasminsha said the chief minister's private secretary MV Jayarajan had contacted him and expressed willingness to hold talks. “Jayarajan asked us to submit a note outlining our demands to CMO and we would be submitting the same by evening. However, no date had been fixed for the talks to be mediated by the chief minister,“ he said.
 
 He said that UNA will stand by the demands being raised by nurses. “We were demanding that the nurses must be given minimum wages as directed by the  . We will press for it during the talks mediated by high court-appointed advocates' commission and the chief minister,“ he said. UNA leader said the nurses will launch an indefinite agitation if the mediation talks failed.
 
 KCBC to hike salary at its hospitals
 
 Thrissur: Kerala Catholic Bishops Council (KCBC) has decided to enhance the salaries of nurses at its hospitals. But, leaders of United Nurses Association (UNA) said the proposed level of hike was much lower than what they had demanded. KCBC sources said a decision was taken to enhance the salary to the level recommended by the wage revision committee.
 
 A joint statement issued by KCBC president archbishop  , vice-president Bishop Yoohanon Mar Chrysostom and secretary general Archbishop Mar Mathew Moolakkatt confirmed the same.
 
