BHOPAL: The decision to implement the annual pattern by discontinuing the semester pattern has sparked a controversy with   alleging that the annual pattern has been implemented in a few courses, while others have the same semester pattern. Countering their claims, ABVP stated that they had only demanded to implement annual pattern in traditional courses and not other courses. Higher education department has released the official notification to end the semester system. However, it has been mentioned categorically that it the semester system is ending in BA, BSc and BCom course only. 

 State spokesperson of NSUI Vivek Tripathi said that the courses being run by AICTE, NCTE and BCI will continue with the semester pattern at the graduation level. “I was shocked to see that the state will now provide some degrees on some courses by semester-based method, while others will be on annual pattern. Ideally, all graduation courses should be into semester pattern,” said Tripathi. He claimed there is no meaning in implementing the annual pattern only in three courses. “According to the notification, semester system has been discontinued in BA, B.Sc and B.Com only. This is funny, as last year the higher education minister had announced that the semester will be discontinued in all graduation courses,” he added. 
 
 Tripathi said, “Now, government has limited the annual pattern to few courses. There are thousands of students in other courses also. Why have they been left out. NSUI will raise this issue when the assembly is in session”. 
 
 On the other hand, ABVP said they had always demanded implementation of annual pattern in traditional courses. “Implementing annual pattern was required in traditional courses only. We have never demanded this for courses in professional courses,” said national secretary of ABVP Rohin Rai. 
 
 Higher education department had launched the system with great fanfare in 2008. It was intended to raise the standard of education. Now, nine years down the line, the system has received criticism for not being able to complete the course properly.
 
 Vice-chancellors were also against scrapping semesters citing that higher education in other parts of the country are shifting towards semester system. “In this situation, there is no reason to go back to the old system of annual exam pattern”, vice-chancellors had stated while registering their protest.
 
 Students also felt that the need was to strengthen the semester system, instead of discontinuing it. “Instead of going back to the old pattern, it would have been better if the government would have rectified the mistakes in implementation of the semester system,” said a student Nidhi Sharma. 
 
 Educationists had also warned that switching to one-exam pattern will take education a step back in the state by almost 10 years. Despite vehement opposition by vice-chancellors and educators, the state government is firm on resuming the old pattern of annual exam.
 
