PATNA: Businesses, especially hospitality sector, have suffered huge revenue losses since liquor ban in   from April 5, 2015.
 
  A prominent lounge on  , where youngsters used to visit in large numbers before prohibition, is on the verge of closure after a drastic fall in footfall. Its owner Ravi Shankar said business has been down 70% since the liquor ban. In terms of revenue, the loss is almost Rs10 lakh per month, he said. “The footfall on weekends used to be nearly 100-150; now we get only 30 to 50 customers. We had to reduce our employees strength from 45 to 20 people. The only way out for us is to move our business to a metro,” Ravi said.
  
  Other businesses are also facing a similar situation. A source in one of the hotels near   said they had suffered a revenue loss of almost Rs1.5 crore in the last one year.
  
  The hotel general manager,  , said losses suffered due to liquor ban cannot be compensated by any other segment in hotel business. “We have two banquet halls. For example, we get only six bookings now against 10 before liquor ban,” he said. The hotel had a bar and a discotheque. They are lying vacant now, he added.
  
  A hotel on Exhibition Road had a bar. Now, it serves mocktails and smoothies. Its front office manager Sunil Kumar Singh said, “We suffer 30% revenue loss every month compared to the period before prohibition. People are now opting to go out of the city for special occasions and celebrations. The number of corporate events in the hotel has declined. We haven’t received any bookings for medical conferences in the past year.”
  
  Atul Pancham, PR manager with one of the event firms in the city, said nearly 70% of his clients were organizing their events out of Bihar.
  
  Abhijeet Kumar works with an investment and finance company, which has held its meetings in the past one year either in Jharkhand or West Bengal due to the prohibition in Bihar. “Some 250 employees from all over the state go for the meeting, which usually continues for three days. They are provided food and accommodation. Prior to the ban, these meetings were held in Patna,” he said. Many of Abhijeet’s friends visited the nearby states for celebrating New Year and Christmas. “My family members celebrated   in Delhi because of liquor ban,” he added.
  
  But there is other side of the coin, too.
  
  The general manager of a resort, Sanjeev Jha, said the ban did not affect the revenue. “Events and marriages do not stop just because there is no liquor available. The only difference I perceive is that earlier the parties would go on till late night. Now things are wrapped up by 11pm.”
  
  Rohit of Fraser Road said people have slowly adapted to the ban. “Before prohibition, our source of enjoyment was booze and friends. Now, we have found other means of entertainment. I personally have never left the state especially to have alcohol,” he said. Although he added that some people were going out of Bihar for celebrations. One of his relatives is getting married in Delhi. Both the bride and groom are from Patna, he said.
