MUMBAI: The   government on Thursday told the Bombay high court that the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) has commenced a discreet inquiry into a complaint regarding irregularities in the collection of toll for the Pune Expressway.

 A bench headed by the Chief Justice was informed by government pleader Abhinandan Vaygani while hearing a public interest litigation urging to direct the government to revoke the contractor’s right to collect toll till August 2019. The toll collection commenced in August 2004. “A discreet inquiry by the Anti-Corruption Bureau is already under progress,” he said.
 
 The PIL by activists Pravin Wategaonkar, Shrinivas Ghanekar, Vivek Velankar and Sanjay Shirodkar said Mhaiskar Infrastructure Pvt Ltd has met its collection target of 2,869 crore and as of March 31 collected an extra Rs 346 crore and continues to earn nearly Rs 1.5 crore daily. In March, they complained to ACB to initiate action against public servants involved individually and collectively for failing to revoke the contractor’s right to collect toll even after completion of contracted toll income, resulting in wrongful pecuniary gain to it.
 
 To the bench’s query on the “fate of toll”, Vagyani replied that it is being collected by the contractor for Maharashtra   Road Development Corporation (MSRDC). Senior advocate Venkatesh Dhond, representing Mhaiskar, said it got a 15-year contract from MSRDC and as part of bidding it was supposed to project a certain cash flow. “I have paid Rs 918 crore upfront,’’ he said, adding that PILs were filled earlier also in a bid to stall to toll collection. “They are seeking to rewrite a contract which has been executed,” he added.
 
 Wategaonkar argued that additionally the concession agreement, which gives a right to the contractor to collect toll, is not registered and no stamp duty paid. “Last thirteen years toll is collected without the authority of law and is illegal,” he said. 
 
 “Is it compulsory or is it just a document?” asked the bench. Dhond informed that Mhaiskar had challenged the stamp duty payable and in an interim order the HC had directed it deposit 50% of the amount in the court. 
 
 “We have deposited Rs 13.77 crore,” he said. The judges have asked MSRDC to “tell whether or not registration of concession agreement is required” at the next hearing after a week. 
 
