Ask and you shall receive; seek and you shall find — says the Holy Bible. When it comes to young Hyderabadis though, ‘travel and you shall know’ seems to be the mantra for spiritual quest. And perhaps that explains why scores of millennials ridden with existential doubts are taking off to remote destinations, in pursuit of peace, happiness and self-discovery. While for some it’s about fighting fear at the mouth of an active volcano, for others, a nerve-racking ride on craggy mountain roads is the secret to unravelling the mysteries of life. We bring your four inspiring stories of Hyderabadis who took the road less travelled to find themselves.

 
 
 Twenty five-year-old   braved stormy monsoon rains, land-slides, squally winds, blockades, and a simmering political unrest In Kashmir valley while seeking solitude in the mystical Buddhist monasteries of Leh and Ladakh last year.
 “It was an unforgettable trip of my life, as danger was lurking at every corner I passed. I took a mountain trail in my first longest-ever solo drive, and it turned out to be a nightmare. I couldn’t even visit Vaisno Devi temple as I had planned due to the political turmoil in Kashmir. I was stranded on the way for days following it,” says Baid, who was travelling on his 350cc motorcycle.
 He shares how the tricky narrow mountain trail to Leh metaphorically reminded him of life, as one wrong step or decision could have been fatal. “The path was overrun with streams full of icy waters. I had to ride through water almost rising up to my waist. The drive through Leh-Khardung La road, the highest motorable road in the country was just mesmerising,” Baid says. But, real trouble began after he reached the Kashmir valley on the night of terrorist  's killing. “I was stranded for a few days, and managed to return only with the help of Indian Army,” he sighs adding he came back a lot richer in experience.
 
 
 Scaling a 1,335 metre active volcano located in one of the most remote parts of the globe might not sound like a very good idea to many. But, for 25-year-old  , a three-week-long expedition to Mount Dukono and Mount Kawah Ijen, two of the most dangerous and active volcanoes in the remote parts of Indonesia, was an opportunity to fight personal demons. 
 Sai says that the Zen Buddhist tradition of Satori, which means ‘sudden enlightenment’, has helped him to undertake the mission. “Satori for me is a kind of enlightenment, but not in a spiritual sense. I was going through an emotional phase of inactivity, and Satori helped me introspect to find out what my real passions in life are. Actually, I had a phobia of lava since my childhood and wanted to overcome it. And hence I grabbed the opportunity.”
 “I reached the capital Jakarta on March 30, and headed to Halmahera Island to reach Mount Dukono in a boat on April 2. Two locals I had befriended on the journey, navigated me to the island. We had to trek through a dense and dangerous jungle full of reptiles and venomous snakes. Though, the sights along the way were breath-taking, they were equally dangerous,” Sai Teja says.
 Sai Teja, says that the journey became all the more difficult once they approached the foothills of the volcano; it was erupting lava bombs every 15 seconds. 
 He reached the summit after two days. “The sight of the volcano crater was breath-taking and frightening. It was firing lava bombs of 1.5 m radius and the sound was deafening. All I could see was clouds of smoke billowing from the opening of the volcano,” he recalls.
 Sai said, this volcano is worshiped by the locals, who call it Gunung Dukono with respect. After conquering Dukono, Sai headed towards the Mount Kwah Ijen in East Java. “The colour of the lava changes to blue in the night and it’s a mesmerising sight. I spent an entire night in absolute solitude on the summit, gazing at the stars and moon and wondering at the beauty of the universe. I am now a completely changed man and I have overcome my fears,” Sai Teja says.
 
 
 
 Shabareesh Balaraju, a 32-year-old trekker says, the quest for self-discovery pushed him to undertake a 12-day trek in the Himalayas. Connecting with one’s soul in the lap of the nature; detached from family and work has always been his dream, admits the IT professional.
 “The Himalayas have always fascinated me with its unspoilt beauty, and I longed to mediate in blissful solitude there. Finally, when I got a chance to a trek to Chandra Taal in the Lahul and Spiti district of Himachal Pradesh, I didn’t think twice and grabbed it. I had a four-member team from Hyderabad accompanying me.”
 He added that the trek tested his physical fitness and will power as it is considered one of the toughest mountain trails frequented only by experienced trekkers. “It was a high-altitude expedition, and once we reached the hills, breathing became an issue. But, the most memorable moment came when we got a chance to walk across the frozen Chandra Taal lake,” Balaraju says. 
 Drinking pure water from mountain streams, taking a dip at the almost- frozen lake and sleeping under the open skies rejuvenated my tired soul and gave a new meaning to being alive, adds Shabareesh. “I came back from the trek a changed man, it widened my perspectives and understanding of others, I am now very compassionate,” he concludes.
 
 
 
 The joy of riding solo on the seasonal salt marsh of Rann of Kutch can only be explained by someone who has done it. Meet  , a 24-year-old biker who completed a three week-long solo expedition to the untouched wilderness of the dessert. 
 “I was seeking answers to existential questions like meaning of life and human existence. I embarked on the trip thinking of finding answers in the tranquillity of the desert. As I rode on the sandy stretches of the Rann that are devoid of any human presence I got enough time to introspect and find my answers from within,” Ravi says.
 Ravi Teja began the journey from Hyderabad on February 7 and reached Kutch on February 10. “I attended the desert festival of Rann of Kutch, and got to see a slice of the local life and vibrant culture. But, it was the breath-taking drive along white Rann under the moon light that brought a new meaning to my existence and helped me redefine my outlook on modern life,” Ravi says adding that sights of the sparkling Rann on moonlit nights and the accompanying serenity induced a zest for life in him.
 “It was a solitary ride except a few military vehicles moving along the Indo-Pak border. I can never forget the breathtaking sunset — the way the Sun just sinks into the orange hues of the evening light and the night takes over…it was like a play-off between life and death,” he says.
 
