GANDHINAGAR: The eighth edition of the   Global Summit that kicked off on Tuesday saw global business leaders extol PM   for his ‘Make In India’ drive and digital push. Some even saw   emerge as an international leader.

 While inaugurating the summit, Modi banked on these campaigns to hard-sell India as the most profitable destination, and assured corruption-free governance while addressing a 5,000-strong audience and political and business delegations from around 100 countries. The number of partner countries for the summit has increased from eight in 2015 to 12 this time.
 
 The business blitzkrieg is expected to witness the inking of MoUs for investment intentions running into over Rs 30 lakh crore. On Tuesday, Adani group chairman Gautam Adani announced an investment of Rs 49,000 crore over the next five years in ports, edible oil and other infrastructure projects.
 
 Reliance Industries Ltd chairman Mukesh Ambani said that he planned to connect all schools, colleges, traders and hospitals in the state with 4G internet. “Till 2014-15, only 35% of people in Gujarat had access to 3G internet. By Diwali 2017, 100% people would be covered,” he said. David Farr, CEO, Emerson Electricals, announced additional investment of $200 million over the next three years to expand their India business.
 
 Modi’s feverish pitch for investment comes at a time when demonetisation has left several sectors bleeding and amid a downward growth projection in coming quarters. While he drew applause several times during his speech, the biggest compliment came from Peter Huntsman, president and CEO of US-based Huntsman Corporation. “Modi visited our country last June. But there are many, many in our country who wish that you (Modi) would stay and take over leadership of our country. It would have been biggest Indian export to US,” he said to thunderous clapping.
 
 Modi strongly pitched the ‘Make In India’ campaign, which he said had achieved global recognition and acceptance. “I daresay, that India alone offers the opportunities that could rival those of an entire continent. It offers today, the possibilities of a full century. And we want to do all this in a cleaner, greener and sustainable way,” he said.
 
 If Modi began his day by skipping yoga to meet his mother, it ended with a closed door meeting with 50 leading CEOs from across the world. Prominent among those were Boeing International president Bertrand Marc Allen, president of Emerson Electric Company, Edward L Monser, Suzuki Motor Corporation president Toshihiro Suzuki, and executive chairman of CISCO John Chambers, Gautam Adani, Anand Mahindra and the Ambani brothers.
 
 
