JAIPUR: As   ( JMRC) removed the barricades from entire   area on Monday, commuters and shopkeepers facing inconvenience for nearly two years heaved a sigh of relief. 

 Long traffic snarls were witnessed in the old city after the JMRC erected barricades for the construction of underground Metro corridor, phase I (B). 
 
 On Monday , the JMRC opened the traffic between   and Ramganj. " The entire walled city is barricade free now . Commuter can easily travel from Chandpole to Baddi Chaupar. After inspecting the site the traffic was opened for public " said JMRC project director,  . 
 
 For the underground stations, the JMRC constructed diaphragm walls and plunge columns to ensure that soil does not collapse on the edges as the excavation progresses continue under the road . After this , the roof slab and black topping road was laid. The JMRC will continue it work beneath the surface after removing the barricades without causing any hindrance to the traffic. 
 
 The official added, "We are using the top down technology to construct the corridor in the Walled City. Under this technology, at first a boring was carried out up to 18 metres to construct diaphragm walls. Once concretizing of the wall was done, the top slab was put in place. Openings are left at regular intervals so that excavation inside the tunnel can be carried out with the help of bentonite slurry and loose earth is also removed through these openings. Then excavation is carried out till the bottom slab. A steel frame is then put in place on which different services are placed."
 
 Meanwhile , JMRC both the tunnels reached at Baddi Chaupar after safely clearing many hurdles. In the Walled City area, the tunnel is constructed near four archaeological monuments- Chandpole Gate, Isar Lat, Jantar Mantar and  . As the second tunnel has also reached Baddi Chaupar after crossing Isar Lat, JMRC officials can heave a sigh of relief as there are no major hurdles ahead. Under the Jaipur metro phase I (B) project , the JMRC is constructing two 2.789 km tunnel between Chandpole and Badi Chaupar.
 
