A year ago, 30-year-old Pune-based designer Saimah Shaikh chanced upon some organic khadi lying ignored in a pile of fabrics. It was love at first sight. Since then, she has fashioned two collections in khadi and is working on her third one. “I love the idiosyncrasies of this handspun fabric that has its imperfections just like the humans who weave them,” she says. She is not wrong for feeling the fabric at a more visceral level. Because for years, this swadeshi yarn has been anything but cloth – it’s an emotion, an ideology, a legacy. It may be lightweight but is weighed down by history. But thanks to some young designers it’s breaking free of the baggage. 

 
 
 With terms like handloom, hand-made and catchphrases like ‘make in india’ becoming popular, khadi is cool now. Fashion commentator Prasad Bidapa says, “Khadi and all handmade textiles of India are true luxury, invested with the spirituality of generations of master artisans who produce these fabrics.” In fact, he says that subsidising khadi harmed its image. How? “It created enormous amounts of stock that’s sold perennially at discounts through the boring and unlovely Khadi Bhandaars,” he adds. The good news: with focus on sustainable fashion khadi is finding itself relevant again. Agree designer duo Resham Karmchandani and Sanya Suri who work with khadi extensively. “In the past few years more people are opting for indie clothing and understand the authenticity that a designer brings to a garment,” Karmchandani says. 
 
 
 
 Well-known fashion designers — usually higher on the fashion food chain — are doing their bit for khadi, for some time now. Like Rimzim Dadu uses fine muslins, Abraham & Thakore used foil printing on khadi, Vidhi Singhania and Swati Ubroi embroidered it with zardozi. Now, in the true trickle-down effect (that would have pleased the Mahatma), smaller labels are using khadi to redefine everyday khadi wear for a younger audience. They retail online or through social media platforms, have never had a fashion show, only work on capsule collections, and sell through select exhibitions. 
 Like former B-school graduate Priyanshi Jariwala. Two years ago she decided to put quirky, graphic prints on khadi. “When I started, khadi was dying a slow death but now I have managed to make my clients understand the sentimental value of what they are adorning and the empowerment process they are being a part of by purchasing a khadi garment,” she says. What works is also mixing two traditions together as championed by Neha Phull and Rituparna Sarangi. 
 The duo combine ikat and Sambalpuri weaves with khadi to give it a new dimension. What is needed? According to Phull, better information made available to the consumer, and active endorsements by celebrities and influencers. Bidapa concludes, “Khadi is a more infinite and beautiful fabric than Irish linen, which through clever marketing and promotion became an international success. We need to do the same for khadi.”
 
 
 
 - Khadi is the only fabric where the play of texture is so unique that no two fabrics will be absolutely identical. 
 - 70 per cent of the artisans involved in production are women.
 - The process involves no environmental pollution. It can be cotton, wool or silk.
 
  
  (L-R)
 A shirt dress can be worn dressed up or dressed down, the contrast pockets add a look-at-me effect
 A his-and-hers look with a funky graphic print to boot adds a cool quotient to your festive dressing
 A grey khadi number in a modern cut is just right for a day out with friends
 
  
  (L-R)
 Khadi denim (left) is the hot new trend; and modern block print patterns gives a new look to khadi instantly
 Khadi and Sambalpuri weave come together to create the right fusion look that’s good for a night out
 
 
