NEW DELHI: Delhi high court on Tuesday ordered the South Delhi Municipal Corporation to restore all effigies it had seized to  . Taking suo motu cognisance of a TOI report on how the bamboo-and-paper creations had been confiscated for taking up road and public space in Titarpur, the court said that civic authorities were aware of the annual festival and should have had the farsightedness to ensure proper space for the Dussehra effigies.

 Referring to the TOI report published on Tuesday, acting chief justice Gita Mittal and justice C Hari Shankar ordered   to ensure that facilities were made available to the artisans to enable them to complete their work of creating the effigies of Ravana, Kumbhkaran and Meghnad. “SDMC shall also be responsible for any damage to the properties of these poor people,” the court said.
 
 The order also asked the executive engineer of the area to be personally present before the court on Wednesday.
 
 TOI had reported that many of the artisans had taken big loans to prepare the figures of the Ramayana characters that are set on fire as part of Dussehra celebrations. This is a seasonal activity that allows the migrant artisans to earn some money. The towering figures are mostly stacked at available spaces along roads and open public areas. SDMC said this violated encroachment norms and had seized or damaged many effigies. 
 
 The court held that Dussehra celebrations required official licensing, which also implied that the effigies used as part of the celebrations were officially necessary. The order said, “Such licenses would, therefore, necessarily require application of mind to the fact that effigies which are to be burnt had to be crafted, for which purpose space would be an essential concomitant.”
 
 The court appointed advocate Ashok Agrawal as the local commissioner in the matter and asked him to visit Titarpur to get the details of damages suffered by the artisans. It requested Agrawal to have the affected artisans present in court so that the bench could hear from them about the problems they face.
 
 Tuesday’s order added, “The respondents should ensure that no obstruction is caused to the completion of the time-bound work undertaken by these artisans at all. It directs the respondents to examine the possibility of creating dedicated, controlled and regulated areas where activities for the creation of effigies for a festival like Dussehra can be undertaken in future." SDMC was also instructed to provide necessary conveniences to the artisans, including water and toilets.
 
 The anti-encroachment action against the artisans had threatened to mar celebrations across Delhi and in some parts of Gurgaon, Faridabad, Ghaziabad and Noida because the effigies burnt on the final day of Dussehra in these places are mostly sourced from Titarpur.
 
 Creation of Ravana effigies is a decades-old exercise in Titarpur, and engages around 500 artisans in the run-up to Dussehra. Many of the artisans are footpath dwellers and work without any provision of drinking water or toilets.
 
