She is the first female DCP of  , and since taking over, has had to tackle high-profile crimes, such as the   gangrape and the sharpshooter case. On International Women’s Day, G  , DCP (law and order), spoke to us   about the thrill and challenges of keeping crime in the under check…

 
 
 This is a challenging job, and in a city like Belagavi, we have to deal with communal tensions and linguistic issues. The Suvarna Soudha is here, so we have to be extra vigilant when the House is in session. In the midst of all these things, I had to tackle challenging cases after taking over charge as DCP, such as the Kakati gangrape and the sharpshooter case. But, my stint so far has been very interesting. I have got a lot of exposure on a range of topics.
 
 
 
 My job is such that I have to always be on my toes. And none of this would be possible without the support of my family, be it from my maternal side or from my in-laws. My mother lives with me to take care of my daughter, and my in-laws also pitch in. One needs a strong support base at home, and that is why I have been able to fulfil my duties well.
 
 
 
 My mother is my biggest inspiration because of the many hurdles she overcame while raising me and my two brothers. My parents weren’t very well to-do and weren’t very well educated, but their main goal was to ensure that my brothers and I received a good education and secured good jobs. They faced several financial difficulties while ensuring this, but they have always been very supportive of us.
 
 
 
 I studied Engineering, but it was my childhood dream to get into the civil services — I had set my heart to it. Due to financial troubles, I couldn’t pursue my dream, so, after securing a degree in engineering, I began working in an insurance company. Once my brothers were well-settled and our financial condition improved, I resigned and pursued my passion. Even though there was a delay, I didn’t forgo my dream.
 
 
 
 This is exclusively for women and kids. Any injustice meted out to them will be addressed immediately through this squad. We have two teams for the city, who identify and patrol sensitive hotspots and isolated areas. Apart from this, they also visit schools, colleges and hostels to create awareness. It is important to shatter the stigma around reporting incidents to the police, and that is what this squad aims at doing. The complainant’s identity is protected, which we hope will encourage people to reach out to us.
 
 — Krishna Kamble
 
