Retirement is not an event but a long phase in your life that can last up to 35 years. During those decades, inflation will cut down the value of your savings ruthlessly. If your savings do not earn enough, you are going to run out of them within your lifetime. How can you prevent this from happening? The first part is to save enough during your working years and invest the savings in equitybacked mutual funds. The second part is about deriving income from these savings after you have retired.

 The basic requirement is self-evident: you should spend only that part of your investment returns that exceed the inflation rate. The single most important thing to understand is that you must reserve the real, inflation-adjusted value of your principal, and not just the nominal face value. So how do you do this? Let’s take a simplified example. Suppose you   today with say `1 crore as your retirement savings. You place it in a bank fixed deposit. A year later, it is worth `1.07 crore. So you have earned `7 lakh, which you can spend, right? Not so fast. Assuming a realistic inflation rate of 5%, if you want to preserve the real value of your principal, you must leave `1.05 crore in the bank. That leaves `2 lakh that you can withdraw to spend over an year, which is `16,666 a month. Is that enough? For a middle class person, surely not.
 
 The interesting thing is that this calculation does not change even when interest rates rise because inflation and interest track each other quite closely.
 
 Further, there have been periods of time when the fixed income interest rate has been below the inflation rate. Moreover, income tax has to be paid whether you realise the returns or not. There can be a situation when the interest rate barely exceeds the inflation rate and the income tax on the interest effectively reduces the value of the money.
 
 The situation is very different in equity-backed mutual funds. Unlike deposits, they are high-earning but volatile. In any given year, the returns could be high or low, but over five to to seven years or more, they comfortably exceed inflation by 6-7% or even more. The returns may fluctuate in individual years, and that’s something that the saver has to put up with, but the threat of old age poverty does not exist. In such funds, one can comfortably withdraw 4% a year and still have a comfortable safety margin.
 
 On top of that, there is no income tax. As long as the period of investment is greater than one year, returns from equity funds are completely tax free. This means that to have a given monthly expenditure through equity funds, you need just half the investment that you would in deposits. An additional advantage in this case is, no matter how high your savings and expenditure, it’s all tax free.
 
 A small but growing number of people have begun to understand and appreciate this idea and have started doing it.
 
 They tend to be those who have used equity funds as their savings vehicle anyway and are used to the idea of ignoring short-term volatility in the interest of long-term gains. However, the vast majority of Indian retirees are still wedded to the mythical safety that deposits provide and end up facing tragic problems as they grow older. There’s no need for you to be one of them.
 
 The author has written about personal   for more than two decades. He is the Founder and CEO of Value Research
 
 
