NEW DELHI: Suresh Narayanan, chairman & MD of  , was about to address students at Bennett University's School of Management on Monday to kick-start its CXO Series, when somebody introduced him to the crowd as the leader who turned around the company during the Maggi crisis.

 One of the first things Narayanan did after taking the mike was to quote medieval era poet Kabir. “Dukh mein sumiran sab kare, Sukh mein kare na koye, Jo sukh mein sumiran kare, Toh dukh kahe ko hoye (In sadness, everybody remembers God, in joy nobody does. To one who remembers God in happiness, how can sorrow come),“ he said. Explaining the famous couplet, Narayanan hinted at Nestle's watershed moment during the Maggi ban. “In good times, people will rejoice with you and call you to deliver lectures on leadership,“ he said. “But during bad times, the values on which your company stands will hold you in good stead, even if you lose everything, including fame and money .“
 
 Narayanan, the first among the many CXOs who will share their management experiences with students at Bennett University (part of The Times Gro up), urged the future leaders to keep a social purpose in mind while setting their goals. He gave the example of Nestle's founder  , who started the $93-billion company by creating infant food when babies in Switzerland were dying because their mothers couldn't breastfeed them.
 
 “Every one of you would want to become a Bill Gates, a   or a  ,“ he said. “But values and purpose are important.Business thrives when there is a social purpose to it.“
 
 While Narayanan said Bennett University has made giant leaps by investing in infrastructure, faculty and the quality of students, he also praised the di versity in the student body . He compared it with Nestle. “We at Nestle take the participation of women in company affairs very seriously ,“ he said. “As a leader, it is my duty to protect their interests and I have sacked several people in Nestle India, who did not respect the company's values when it came to women.“
 
 When asked by students how he dealt with Maggi's brand ambassadors -Madhuri Dixit and Amitabh Bachchan -pulling out of their roles during the crisis, Narayanan said those were thoughtful decisions and the main brand ambassadors of the popular instant noodles were its end consumers.“You are the main reason Maggi is back,“ he said.
 
