NEW DELHI: The government plans legislation that will empower the   to deal much more effectively with stressed assets than before as part of a broader plan to resolve banks' bad loans, a long-festering issue that's been holding back the economy from achieving its full potential.
 
  The Centre may even issue an ordinance to enable   to direct banks on dealing with stressed assets as moving the   amendment through Parliament could take time, said officials aware of deliberations. The reworked law will also empower RBI to set up oversight panels that will shield bankers from later action by probe agencies looking into loan recasts.
  
  Bad loans rose by over Rs 1 lakh crore in the first nine months of last fiscal to Rs 6.07 lakh crore by December 31, 2016, minister of state for finance Santosh Gangwar had said in a written reply to the Rajya Sabha. Public sector banks' gross bad loans stood at Rs 5.02 lakh crore at the end of March 2016, up from Rs 2.67 lakh crore at the end of March 2015.
  
  High   have held back lending and prevented banks from lowering interest rates further, which has in turn discouraged private investment, badly needed to speed up growth.
  
  Banks have been reluctant to resolve NPAs through settlement schemes or sell bad loans to asset reconstruction companies for fear of being hauled up by investigation agencies.
  
  Once the law is amended, RBI will be able to give specific solutions for specific cases and also, if required, look at providing relaxation in terms of current guidelines, said a senior government official aware of the deliberations.
  
  Banks are initially expected to focus on the top 50 accounts to get the greatest benefit from a speedier resolution process.
  
  The official cited above said the ordinance route is being considered since there is not much time left in the ongoing Parliament session, which ends April 12.
  
  
 
  
  "These amendments will empower the RBI to give faster approvals of loan restructuring and other related decisions taken through various mediums including the joint lenders forum," he said, adding that the shield provided by RBI will break the current logjam.
  
  "This is going to be a major breakthrough. The focus will be on resolution and guidelines can be tweaked if there is a chance of recovery."
  
  The government is not inclined to conduct forensic audits of such NPA accounts as this may further delay the resolution process, said the official.
  
  Another official aware of the matter said enabling the central bank to issue directions to banks on stressed assets will also take care of the undue vigilance that banks currently face from investigating agencies.
  
  "For example, the overseeing committees can quickly approve of the process and this will ensure that banks do not delay the process due to fear of undue vigilance," he added.
  
  In February, heads of several state-run banks met finance minister Arun Jaitley after the arrest of former bank officials over loans made to  's grounded Kingfisher Airlines, raising concerns about aggressive investigation into non-performing loans that they said has impacted business.
  
  Jaitley had said at the first meeting of his ministry's consultative committee last month that the government is taking sector-specific measures to deal with bad loans, especially resolution of large debts.
  
  This may include setting up more oversight committees for faster settlement of such cases, he had noted.
  
  Apart from forcing banks to recognise bad loans and straighten up their finances, RBI has been trying various strategies to help resolve the bad loan burden over the past two years. 
