NAGPUR: There was an eclectic mix of vocal and instrumental notes on the third and final day of Pt CR Vyas Sangeet Samaroh which ended on Friday with a vocal presentation by   and santoor recital by Pt Satish Vyas. The evening resounded with old school music and camaraderie as the audience soaked in the environment at Vasantrao Deshpande Hall.

 Starting with raga Puriya Dhanashri, Indore-based vocalist Zokarkar began with a bandish in vilambit ‘Bali bali jaaon’. Displaying her skills with intricate taan and alaap, she closed with another bandish in drut ‘Panghat jaaney na paaon’. But her true merit emerged with a thumri in raag Khamaj, ‘Saware saloney baanke Shyam’ after which she went on to present a tappa and bandish in raag Kafi. A disciple of VU Rajurkar and Sushila Pohankar, Zokarkar’s rendition of the tappa showed her brilliance and mastery over the taans. 
 
 A now not so popular form of semi-classical singing, tappa requires a fast and rolling pace and has a subtle and knotty construction. All this came forth in Zokarkar’s presentation. “Singing tappa requires extreme control over not just taans but the harqats or murkiyaa that a vocalist can take as various taans are threaded together to form a bandish. With its origins in Punjabi folk music, it is very appealing to the audience when tied together with ley and taal,” Zokarkar told TOI.
 
 Taking the stage along with two of the best percussionists in the country, Pt   on Pakhwaj and Pt   on tabla, Pt Satish Vyas’s santoor recital was a treat for music lovers. Presenting three compositions in raag Jog Kauns, the instrumentalist said that the raag had been a favourite of musicians and patrons of music for centuries now. Explaining his selection, Pt Vyas added, “Jog Kauns in particular was invented by my father’s guru Pt Gunidas. Though I have played it often, yet, each time there is something new in the presentation.”
 
 With perfect coordination or probably they could read each other’s mind, the musicians could create that moment when they and the audience together experienced a moment of pure joy which translated into music.
 
