Chandigarh: With the All India Congress Committee (AICC) planning to conduct organizational elections for its Haryana unit, senior leaders are busy proving their credentials before the central leadership by organising show of strength in their strongholds. Eyeing the Haryana Congress chief’s post, none of them is seen at public gatherings or events organised by their ‘rivals.’

 There are six key contenders for the Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) president’s post- incumbent chief Ashok Tanwar, former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda, Congress legislature party (CLP) leader Kiran Choudhry, AICC chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala, Rajya Sabha MP and former Union minister Kumari Selja and Kuldeep Bishnoi.
 
 When asked about the game of one-upmanship, the senior Congress leaders in Haryana denied there was any infighting. “Congress is an organization. All leaders have to work to strengthen the party,” said Hooda.
 
 Enjoying the support of 13 MLAs and several former MLAs and ministers, Hooda has started consolidating his position among Dalits and backward classes. Last week, he organized the ‘Dalit Panchayat’ at his New Delhi residence.
 
 HPCC chief Tanwar, who is popular among youth leaders said, “Since the high command hasn’t announced anything yet, issues like change of guard in the state is a creation of people with vested interests.” He is organizing ‘Dalit panchayats’ and ‘Pol Khol Abhiyan’ in the state.
 
 Surjewala was the first to convene the ‘Vyapar Bachao Vyapari Bachao’ (save trade, save traders) after the imposition of the goods and service tax (GST) in the country. After convening six such seminars in urban constituencies, he has now shifted his focus on farmers by organising ‘Kisan Bachao’ seminars.
 
 “Why don’t you appreciate that people have rejected the BJP-led government in the state? You see the turnout in the events organised by our party, which is in the opposition. Our aim is to ensure an impressive comeback after the assembly elections in 2019,” said Bhupinder Singh Boora, chief spokesperson of Kisan Khet Mazdoor Congress, the organization that hosts Surjewala’s programme.
 
 Having organized a massive protest march in Tosham last week, CLP leader Choudhry is planning another big show at Bhiwani. Recently, she had intensified her attack on the Manohar Lal Khattar- government over the renaming of the medical college in Bhiwani.
 
 Former Haryana CM Bhajan Lal’s son Kuldeep and his wife Renuka Bishnoi are also active in Hisar and surrounding areas. “The decision is left to the high command. Everybody is playing his role so are we,” said Kuldeep.
 
 
