MUMBAI:   dropped a bombshell on the BJP by calling on President   at Raj Bhavan on Friday. The meeting promptly sparked speculation that the Sena may be keen to back Mukherjee for a second term in Rashtrapati Bhavan.

 Veterans recalled how Mukherjee had visited Matoshree and sought Sena’s support for his candidacy in the 2012 election during the   rule. The presidential election is scheduled for July this year. The Maharashtra BJP, which has been taking far too many blows from the Sena since the BMC polls, took a serious view of what Thackeray described as his 30-minute “courtesy call” on Mukherjee. While the BJP, in the wake of its recent poll grand slam, may not need the Sena’s support for the coming presidential election, Matoshree reportedly wants Prime Minister Narendra Modi to consult it before finalising the NDA’s presidential nominee.
 
 Speculation was rife in political circles that the Sena president briefed Mukherjee on loan waivers to farmers, the Sena’s pet theme since the start of the budget session of the state legislature early this month. However, Thackeray, talking informally to mediapersons, denied discussing politics with Mukherjee.
 
 Earlier in the day, the Sena scored yet another point on the BJP by forcing chief minister Devendra Fadnavis to discuss loan waivers with the Centre ahead of the presentation of the state budget. The CM left for New Delhi on Friday with senior BJP-Sena ministers, to meet the Union finance and agriculture ministers on the issue. The Sena had warned Fadnavis to discuss the matter with the Centre and come up with an amicable formula before the state budget, scheduled for Saturday. 
 
 The BJP leadership is hot under its collar as the Sena has extended a hand of friendship to the Congress-NCP alliance on the loan waiver issue. Following Thackeray’s diktat, Sena legislators actively participated in the Opposition’s strategy to stall both houses of the state legislature for nearly 10 days, demanding the government immediately announce loan waivers for farmers in the wake of crop failures and recurring debts.
 
  chairperson Arundhati Bhattacharya’s statement, opposing a loan waiver, which, she said, would disrupt fiscal discipline has come as a twist in the tale. Leader of the Opposition Radhakrishna Vikhe-Patil accused Bhattacharya of overstepping her brief. The Opposition plans to move a privilege motion notice against Bhattacharya. Former MNS corporator Sandip Deshpande too has, in a tweet, took Bhattacharya to task for conveniently forgetting her fiscal discipline point when the BJP promised loan waivers to farmers in the recent UP elections.
 
 The cash-strapped Fadnavis government is in no mood to go for a blanket waiver for debt-ridden farmers. Putting up a spirited defence in the state legislative assembly on Thursday, Fadnavis said his government would not be in a position to plan and execute developmental works if it has to yield to the Sena-Opposition’s loan waiver demand.
 
 Stating that 1.08 crore farmers have taken loans to the tune of Rs 64,000 crore in the state, Fadnavis said, “Of this, 31.57 lakh farmers owe banks across the state a staggering Rs 30,500 crore.” In sharp contrast, the state's capital expenditure is pegged at Rs 31,000 crore, Fadnavis said, summing up his government's fiscal crisis. 
 
 Standing rabi crops suffered huge losses in several districts in Marathwada, Solapur and Ahmednagar suffered following unseasonal rains and hailstorm on Thursday. According to preliminary reports, very few farmers from the areas had enrolled for the state-backed crop insurance scheme. 
 
 
