TRICHY/ MADURAI: Union minister of state for  , highways and shipping Pon Radhakrishnan flagged off the extended Trichy –   up to Thiruvananthapuram here on Saturday much to the glee of many who have been relentlessly campaigning for the same. 

 Train no 22627 commenced its first run from Trichy junction at 7:05 am in the presence state tourism minister Vellaimandi N Natarajan, backward classes and minority welfare minister   and Trichy MP P Kumar. The train will arrive at Thiruvananthapuram at 3.25 p.m. Train No 22628 Thiruvananthapuram – Trichy Intercity Express will leave Thiruvananthapuram Central at 11.55 a.m. and arrive at Trichy at 8.15 p.m. 
 
 The revised composition of the train will be AC Chair Car 1, Second Class Chair Car 7,   8 and Luggage cum Brake Van 2. As the train chucked into its extended section of Tirunelveli – Thiruvananthapuram, a rousing reception was accorded to it by various rail users’ associations of the south.
 
 Ever since it was introduced between Trichy and Tirunelveli as a daytime Intercity Express on July 14, 2012 the users’ associations, especially Kanyakumari District Rail Users’ Association, advocates association in Kanyakumari and Radhapuram – Nanguneri Rail Users Association have been demanding its extension till Nagercoil. They pointed out that there was no day train from Kanyakumari district towards Madurai. 
 
 The announcement of the extension was made by Union railway minister Suresh Prabhu three months ago during his visit to Trichy. Member of Trichy district road safety council M Sekaran welcomed the move to have a stopover at Manapparai. However, Trichy MP Siva raised doubts over its benefits as its extension beyond Tirunelveli would disturb the regular time of travel from Trichy-Tirunelveli. 
 
 The train was regularly used by passengers to travel between Trichy and Tirunelveli within a day but its extension has now forced such passengers to look for alternatives. 
 
 At Valiyoor station, members of Radhapuram – Nanguneri Rail Users Association received the train showering flowers. “The entire station was crowded to see the train because it was our dream to get a daytime train”, said S Rajkumar, president of the association. They distributed sweets to the passengers and met minister Pon Radhakrishnan travelling on the train to extend their gratitude.
 
 At Nagercoil junction, huge flex banners were kept on the station premises welcoming the train. President of Kanyakumari   Association S R Sriram along with members distributed sweets to passengers and honoured Pon Radhakrishnan.
 
  However the association is slightly disappointed that its demand for stoppage at Eraniel in Kanyaykumari district was ignored. Eraniel is the main railway station of Kalkulam taluk in Kanyakumari district. The taluk has a population of 6,03,918. On an average 1,000 passengers use Eraniel station daily and ten trains stop at the station, according to the association.
 
