Thiruvananthapuram: A proposal by the Indian medical Association Goes Eco-friendly (IMAGE) to set up a common biomedical waste treatment facility (CBMWTF) in the district is hanging fire after the state environment impact assessment authority (SEIAA) rejected environmental clearance.

 The   was not granted as the state-level expert appraisal committee (SEAC) had recommended against it as the proposed site – Peringamala in Nedumangadu taluk – is notified as ecologically sensitive area (ESA) village. 
 
 The Indian medical association (IMA) has now approached the state government which in turn directed SEIAA to reconsider the decision. James Varghese, member secretary, SEIAA, said the matter is now pending clearance from MoEF. “The project was rejected environmental clearance based on technical ground. When the government asked us to look into it again since the application was submitted before notification by Kasturirangan committee came into effect. Once the centre gives clearance, the project can be implemented,'' said James Varghese. 
 
 IMAGE office bearers said that the application was submitted in 2012, a year before MoEF issued draft notification of ESA villages. IMA had earlier submitted a request to secretary, SEAC, stating that the project at Palode did not come under the purview of Kasthuri Rangan report. However in the 68th meeting of SEAC held in February, 2017, the applicants were explained the provisions of the 2013 MoEF notification, which effectively prohibits establishment of the project in an ESA village. 
 
 The project was proposed by IMA as part of setting up regional treatment facilities for bio-medical waste. At present bio-medical waste from all hospitals are being transported to a treatment facility run by IMAGE in Palakkad. “Once regional facilities come up, issue of transportation could be solved. The project proposal for Palode has not been denied environmental clearance, it has just been set aside,'' said Dr V G Pradeep Kumar, state president, IMA. UDF government had earlier allotted three acres of land at Brahmapuram for setting up bio-medical waste treatment facility for the middle zone. 
 
 The proposed CBMWTF at Palode can manage 30 tonnes of regulated BMW (bio-medical waste) per day. The service area will cover 150 km radius across six districts. It was envisaged to serve 80,000 beds, clinical laboratories and budget was fixed at Rs 20 crores. 
 
 As per the revised draft guidelines of Central Pollution Control Board, location of CBWTF should be in conformity to the CRZ Norms and other provisions notified under the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986.
 
 
