DEHRADUN: After the   (EC) on Tuesday filed an affidavit against the Uttarakhand high court’s order to seal EVMs in seven constituencies of the state, stating that “the order would erode public confidence in the commission”,  , who had knocked the court’s doors over the  , said they found EC’s affidavit “strange and unusual.”
 
  Former transport minister Navprabhat, who was the first to file a petition alleging that EVMs in his constituency Vikasnagar had been tampered with, said, “It seems the EC is against the seal of court on the EVMs as it fears that the court may order some kind of retest.”
  
  In a similar vein, Congress candidate from BHEL Ranipur   claimed, “The confidence of people will be eroded if the truth does not come before them. Questions are being raised in different parts of the country; so what’s wrong in our approaching the court.”
  
  Uttarakhand BJP spokesperson Vinay Goel, said, “The BJP has nothing to do with the matter, as it is between the losing candidates and EC. However, one thing is increasingly clear that the Congress candidates are unable to digest their defeat and that is why they are projecting themselves as victims of EVM tampering to mislead people. As far as the high court order of sealing and seizing of EVMs is concerned, we are a law-abiding party, and will follow the court’s decision.”
  
  sWhile ordering the seizure, the court had issued notice to the Centre, the state election commission, and the seven winners — Khajan Das (Rajpur Road), Adesh Kumar Chauhan (BHEL Ranipur), Umesh Sharma Kau (Raipur), Munna Singh Chauhan (Vikasnagar) Ganesh Joshi (Mussoorie), Vijay Singh Panwar (Pratapnagar) and Yatiswaranand (Haridwar rural), all BJP MLAs — seeking their reply within six weeks.
  
  Hearing a petition alleging tampering with electronic voting machines (EVMs) in Vikasnagar assembly constituency, the single bench of justice S K Gupta ordered the EVMs to be “sealed and seized” in the presence of the Vikasnagar judicial magistrate.
  
  After BJP’s Munna Singh Chauhan defeated Congress nominee Navprabhat by 6,418 votes, the later filed a petition in the court alleging that EVMs in Vikasnagar were rigged.
  
  The petitioner also alleged that Chauhan was “personally involved in EVM tampering” and that 9,000 fake names were on the voters list in the constituency.
