PUNE: The   and the   ( ) may have decided to go it alone in the Mumbai municipal elections, but hope remains alive of the two parties forging a partnership for the Pune  .

 The NCP and Congress, despite having differences over the seat-sharing formula, are optimistic of finding a middle ground in the next two days.
 
 According to sources from both the parties, the NCP wants 110 seats for itself, with 52 for the Congress, while the latter is pushing for 71 seats, which would mean 91 seats for the current ruling party.
 
 “We are working on the percentages,” said Vandana Chavan, NCP’s city unit chief. “We want something that will do justice to both the parties and their candidates. The details should be worked out so that all the right aspirants are accommodated,” she said.
 
 Chavan said that NCP was planning to conduct a late-night meeting on Monday wherein a formula will be presented to its leaders. Subject to their approval, the same formula will be presented to the Congress. 
 
 In the 2012 elections, the NCP had emerged as the single largest party in the Pune Municipal Corporation, with 51 seats. The Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) had won 29 seats while the Congress pouched 28. The Bharatiya Janata Party had bagged 26 candidates and their partners Shiv Sena managed to win 15 seats. The Republic Party of India (RPI) had won two wards. There was only one independent candidate, who later supported the NCP. 
 
 The Congress wants discussions to be held on the basis of the candidates’ winnability and accordingly, it wants the records of the last election to be taken into consideration.
 
 “Our party is discussing the alliance at the higher levels, taking local leaders into confidence,” said Arvind Shinde, leader of Congress in PMC. “One of the factors key to this discussion is that sitting corporators should win back their wards. In addition, factors such as winning the second-highest number of votes in a particular ward, and past record of the party in that ward would be considered,” he said.
 
 Shinde said there were many rumours doing the rounds about Congress’ proposal. Terming most of them false, Shinde said the party will decide the final figure in the next couple of days.
 
 For five years, Pune’s mayors and chairmen of the PMC’s standing committee were from the NCP, while the Congress had to be content with the posts of deputy mayor and leader of the opposition.
 
 
