GANDHINAGAR: Setting the tone of African Development Bank’s (AfDB) annual meetings being held for the first time in India, Union finance minister   stated that India and Africa   provide limitless opportunities and India is among the most important   in Africa.

 “Emerging economies are now vital source of foreign direct investment (FDI) in Africa. India's sustained engagement with Africa is already making an impact on the continent,” said Jaitley while addressing a session on Africa India Co-operation on the first day of the annual meetings, which kicked off on Monday at Mahatma Mandir, Gandhinagar.
 
 “India is a bright spot in global economy and Africa is not far behind. In 2015, Africa was the second fastest growing region in the world after East Asia,” said Jaitley, adding, “If we can translate the aspirations of humanity into reality, it would, no doubt, do wonders. India and Africa can shape the future of the world,” he said.
 
 Highlighting AfDB’s top five priorities-energy, food security, industrialization, integration and improving the quality of lives of the people in Africa, AfDB president Akinwumi Adesina sought greater participation of India and Indian companies in achieving these goals. “Africa is ready for investments and India’s investment in the continent is rising,” he said.
 
 Daniel Kablan Duncan, vice president, Republic of Cote d’Ivoire, said, “India is an industrialized country. India and Africa need to grow and diversify further.” Duncan added, “There is a lot of scope for partnerships between Indian and African entrepreneurs and Indian private sector can play an important role in Africa’s industrialization.” 
 
 With 44 greenfield projects in 2015, India was the fourth largest investor in Africa after US, UK and UAE. “India’s share of announced greenfield investment projects in Africa grew from 3.3% in 2003-2008 to 6.1% in 2009-2015. During the same period, China’s saw its share dip from 4.9% to 3.3%,” said Jaitley.
 
 “Dwindling exports to US and big demand in Europe has increased the importance of BRICS nations. Emerging countries accounted for 24% of exports by Africa in 2009. The same has now increased to one half of the total exports by the continent,” he added.
 
 Stating that India and Africa co-operation should be wide-ranging, Jaitley, who is also India’s governor to AfDB, further added that this co-operation is not an one-off event and it has been central to India’s strategic policy. 
 
 Over the last few years, the present government has provided fresh impetus to these efforts and this commitment is reflected in a continuous high level political engagement with African countries at a pace never witnessed before, Jaitley said.Department of Economic Affairs secretary Shaktikanta Das, too, acknowledged the immense possibilities and opportunities in Africa and said that India and Africa together can revive global growth.
 
