GURGAON: Echoing the concerns of residents at earlier ‘Times Society Connect’ initiatives, occupants of   in   said that the biggest problem with the city’s administration is the lack of accountability.

 According to the residents, who had a discussion with a team from TOI on Sunday evening, there is absolutely no one to lend them an ear when things go wrong. Be it erratic water supply, dysfunctional streetlights, illegal parking or chaos on the roads, they do not know which door to knock.
 
  “This is a Huda sector but was taken over by MCG last year. The corporation has been charging us taxes from long before the takeover, but when it comes to providing the basic services, we do not even see the MCG officials on the ground,” complained Sunil Kumar.
 
 The other residents agreed, adding that if the corporation charges taxes, they are obliged to provide services as well. Indeed, most of the issues that came up in the conversation concerned the municipal corporation, among them garbage disposal, streetlights and water supply.
 
  “We have hired a contractor who collects the garb-age and then dumps it somewhere far off because there is no garbage pickup and disposal system in place. Isn’t that one of the main jobs of a municipal corporation?” asked Sudip Kar.
 
 Allegations were also aired that the corporation was charging property taxes on a random basis, leading to a scenario in which people with flats of the same dimension paid different amounts in property taxes.
 
 The condominium is situated diagonally opposite the   metro station, leaving the residents having to deal with regular traffic and road congestion headaches. They protested that there are no walkways for pedestrians, forcing them to cross the busy intersection. Further, the red lights are dysfunctional post 9:00 pm, and hardly any traffic cops are to be seen. “There is an immediate need of a pedestrian walkway or a foot-over bridge at the junction, as thousands of people come out of the metro every day and walk towards the commercial hub in Sector 44,” said A Dasgupta, a senior citizen. He spoke of the need for proper patrolling at night, to avoid accidents.
 
 Atul Bali said that seeing the footfalls in the area, due to the presence of the metro station, the city administration and traffic police must declare the whole stretch a ‘No Tolerance Zone’. “Anyone flouting the traffic rules in this part must be fined heavily,” insisted Bali. Another common concern was the lack of patrolling in the area, which has led to increasing law and order issues. “There are incidents of snatching right outside our society. The situation is made worse due to the non-functioning streetlights,” shared Tapan Das.
 
 
