NEW DELHI: More than 13 years ago, the SC created a trust for welfare of disabled people and directed scheduled banks and financial institutions to deposit the excess interest they had collected from more than five crore borrowers since 1991 into it. 

 The amount so far deposited with the trust is Rs 174 crore. There are over 100 million disabled persons in India. Petitioner  , through senior advocate Colin Gonsalves, alleged that many banks had not paid the amount directed by the court and that the trust, headed by the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG), had not taken any step to use the money for welfare measures under the Disabilities (Equal Opportunities, Protection of Rights and Full Participation) Act, 1995.
 
  A bench of Chief Justice   and Justice D Y Chandrachud took exception to non-compliance of the SC's direction and told RBI's counsel, senior advocate  , "File an affidavit in this court on behalf of the  , indicating details of deposits made by various banks, in continuation of the judgment passed by this court on April 16, 2004. Also indicate the details of defaulting banks and the extent of default. Needful be done within one week." 
 
 On February 21, 2014, the SC had said, "We are of the opinion that it is for the RBI and the Small Industries Development Bank of India (SIDBI) to make earnest efforts to recover the excess amount of interest from the respective banks, on which they got effective control.
 
  "We notice from the letter of the RBI dated February 6, 2014 that 46 commercial banks have deposited an aggregate amount of Rs 154.26 crore towards excess interest charged to borrowers and 39 commercial banks have deposited a total of Rs 19.5 crore (Rs 50 lakh each) as additional amount. Efforts should be made by RBI and SIDBI to recover the rest of the amounts and pass on the same to the trust fund." 
 
 Gonsalves raised another important issue. He said the fund was not being managed by the trust for the purpose for which it was set up 13 years ago. He requested the court to give the amount to   (NALSA), with a clear direction to utilise it for welfare of disabled litigants.
 
 
