HUBBALI: With severe   hitting Ron taluk, Gadag district,   here find it difficult to take care of their  . Their problems are multiplied due to the lack of adequate number of  . In the taluk of more than 90 villages, there is only one goshala. Also, the huge shortage of   has forced many farmers in the taluk to sell their cows and   at throwaway prices.

 The goshala was set up on a 20-acre land in Nagendragad on March 5. It has three sheds and each can accommodate 30 cows or buffaloes. There is a borewell and hybrid jowar is provided to the livestock here.
 
 However, farmers in villages, like Amargol, Gadagoli, Hole Mannur, Asuti, Belvanki, Bhairpur, Bachalpur, Chikkalgundi, Gadagoli, DS Hadagali and Jakkalli, are unable to send their livestock to this goshala because of the distance. Even farmers from villages like, Lakkalmatti, Rajuru, Bevinkatti, Chilzeri and Kalliganur, which are just 2-3km from the goshala, are also not sending their cattle here. “Villagers from far-off places have to travel at least 10-12km, while those residing nearby traverse rough terrain to reach the goshala. It is not ideal for us,” Kumar Koppad, a resident of Gadagoli, told TOI.
 
 Somalingappa Bhagavati, another farmer from Chikkalgundi village, said that he would rather sell off his cows than sending them to the goshala. “We have to travel at least 8-10km to reach the goshala. We need goshalas at the hobli level,” he said.
 
 Many farmers alleged that fodder banks in the taluk are providing very low quality of items. To save their cattle, farmers prefer to buy fodder by paying Rs 6,000-8,000 per tractor from outside. 
 
 Ashok Lakalkatti, who works in the goshala at Nagendragad, said that currently, the facility has 10 buffaloes and 22 cows. “Those who want to protect their livestock from starvation bring them here even if they reside in far-off places,” he said.
 
 “We’ll wait for some more days. If farmers continue to avoid sending their livestock here, we will start one or two more goshalas in the taluk. We have also sent a proposal, seeking permission to set up some more goshalas in Ron taluk,” said Dr H B Hulagannavar, taluk veterinary officer, Ron.
 
 “We admit that the goshala is too far from many villages. We set up the goshala here because we could get water from the borewell situated near a big lake which has dried up now,” said Dr Ramesh Dodamani, assistant director, animal husbandry and veterinary service, Gadag.
 
