PUNE: Ten   theft cases were solved after the   arrested two conmen, one of them an engineer. 

 Police recovered property worth Rs 5.91 lakh from Sayyed Khan (26) and Mohammad Siddiqui (26). Both are from   living in   in Pune. 
 
 They had hoodwinked a police constable and three others at ATM kiosks in Vadgaonsheri and Kharadi by replacing their debit cards with discarded cards of the same banks. They used the original cards to buy clothes and valuables from shops and jewellery stores totally worth Rs 1.44 lakh since the last week of December. They were caught on the night of January 3 while trying to dupe another constable.
 
 Khan, who arrived in Pune eight days ago, was living with his friend Siddiqui in Chandannagar. The suspects would wait in the long queues at ATM kiosks and befriend their victims. Khan would enter the kiosks with their targets and read the PIN number while it was being keyed in. Siddiqui, an engineer, would wait outside. 
 
 If the customer fumbled while keying the PIN number, Khan would offer to help and switch the original cards for discarded ones. Police acted after four complaint applications were filed. 
 
 Senior inspector of Chandannagar police station Anil Patrudkar said, “We obtained CCTV footage from ATMs and places from where they had made purchases. Our investigations showed that the suspects in all the cases were the same men and we then registered the FIRs.” 
 
 They set traps at ATMs and at one such place one of the suspects tried to cheat a policemen. “The policemen was alert and with help from his colleague he took Khan and his aide Siddiqui into their custody,” Patrudkar added.
 
 They confessed to their involvement in the 10 cases including seven from Chandannagar, one from Vimannagar and two from Chattisgarh, he added.
 
 Follow these 
 
 Don’t write down your PIN number or disclose it 
 
 Shred your statements or slips 
 
 Cover your hand when entering PIN 
 
 Check your statements, including low-value transactions
 
 Notify your card company immediately if you suspect a fraud
 
 Better to use credit cards as credit card companies are quick at spotting unusual transactions 
 
 
