KOLKATA:   on Sunday morning served notices to all 22 persons, including the   ( ) brass, three days after Calcutta high   directed the agency to ensure they appear in person at a city sessions court on Monday.

 After protracted legal consultation, which continued even as this report was being filed, it seems likely that several of the 54 persons accused by CBI in the 2010 Madan Tamang murder case will appear in court.
 
 The top leadership, who are reluctant to set foot in Kolkata — including president Bimal Gurung — may say they haven’t received the CBI summons in person and were, thus, unaware of it. The agency had pasted the summons at several leaders’ homes, unable to contact them.
 
 Sayan Dey, who is arguing the GJM leaders’ case in the lower court, said: “I do not know who will appear. But some persons will definitely do so. Before Monday morning, I am unable to say for sure. It is difficult to contact the senior leaders.” A senior criminal lawyer, who was part of the deliberations on Sunday, said: “I would not like to comment on the subject now.”
 
 GJM leaders who do not face arrest and have not been named in any FIR in the 39-day-old agitation are likely to appear in court, some sources indicated.
 
 “However, that some leaders will turn up in court was decided after CBI, which drew the HC’s glare on July 19 for its ham-handed approach to the protracted legal hearings, indicated it will move court seeking cancellation of anticipatory bail against those who fail to appear in court on Monday morning,” a source said.
 
 “There is no arrest warrant against them, so they cannot be forced to appear on Monday,” said a CBI officer. “But non-appearance may translate into issuing warrants against them.” A team of the agency’s special crime branch officials had met some of the accused persons and served notices. “Some of them could not be contacted in person and were contacted over phone and were reminded about their appearance at a city sessions court on Monday,” the officer said.
 
 Dubbing the CBI “complacent”, the HC’s July 19 order recorded that the agency didn’t oppose the petitions in which the accused had sought relief from personal appearance in the lower court. The HC even said the CBI could have moved for cancellation of the anticipatory bail earlier. “It is, therefore, surprising that the applications under Section 317 of the said code have been accepted and granted without any opposition from the CBI,” acting Chief Justice Nishita Mhatre and Justice Tapabrata Chakraborty had remarked in their order.
 
 A senior state official said: “Even if the CBI does not move for cancellation of the anticipatory bail, non-apearence would lead to contempt. Even before the HC’s July 18 order, the trial court itself had, on June 13, asked all the accused to remain in court on Monday. The June 13 order reads ‘all accused persons should appear in court for consideration of charges and hearing of the discharge petitions.’” Dey, however, indicated that they will appeal in such an eventuality. “I will not comment on it but we are considering that option too,” was all he would say.
 
 ADG (law and order) Anuj Sharma said: “We will keep a close watch as the situation unfolds on Monday.”
 
 A defence lawyer said: “Filing an appeal against the HC order in Supreme Court to get relief will not be possible on Monday itself. The lower court will hear the discharge petitions on Monday and consider the charges. This is a legal prerequisite before the framing of charges. But, if a person is discharged, there remains no question of framing charges at all. Moreover, 54 people are accused in the case. The HC order covers only 23 among them.”
 
 The HC had remarked: “It is true that the discharge applications are also pending before the trial court. However, this does not mean that the trial court should continue with the framing of the charge endlessly. The bail applications were decided on 14th December, 2016. In spite of almost seven months having elapsed since then, no further progress appears to have been made in framing the charge against the accused.” The HC’s order directs the trial court to expedite the hearing, if possible on a day-to-day basis, and wind up the pre-trial legalities by August 17.
 
 (With inputs from Deep Gazmer in Darjeeling)
 
 
