MUMBAI: Collectors and dealers of   and banknotes are anxious about a new levy that would be imposed on the trade under the new GST regime. Currently, numismatics attracts 1% tax under the   (VAT) system, but under GST, the tax rate would be raised to 12%—a twelve-fold increase.

 Numismatist Malcolm Todywalla, who runs one of the largest auction houses in India, said, “Tax rates levied on the purchase of antique gold and silver coins were always similar to that levied on bullion. So far, buyers paid 1% on each purchase. Now however, a separate category has been created which puts numismatics in the 12% tax bracket. Bullion, meanwhile, will attract 4-5% under GST. We should have been clubbed under the same tax slab.”
 
 Malcolm’s father Farokh Todywalla, who set up the auction house 50 years ago, said that several representations, appeals and requests by the numismatic community to both the Centre and the state have fallen on deaf ears. “We appointed auditing firm Ernst & Young to prepare a report and approached the GST Council before the tax rate was promulgated. We met minister of state for finance Arjun Meghwal in Delhi and explained how numismatics helps conserve the country’s heritage. We met ministers in Maharashtra also. We still hope they will pay heed. The order has not yet been notified,” he said.
 
 The business of numismatics has an annual turnover of Rs 60-70 crore nationwide. India has a handful of approximately six or seven big   who are registered with the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI). These dealers trade in cashless mode by accepting cheque payment or online transfer. These are located in Mumbai, Gujarat and Karnataka. But much of the trade is informal and unorganized and thrives on cash. Large dealers say they are being penalised for being transparent whereas the cash-centric black market will continue to profit.
 
 Numismatist Girish Veera explains the mechanics of the trade. “The bulk of gold and silver coins barely sell for 2-3% over the rate of bullion. For instance, a Jaipur gold mohur fetches Rs 32,000 even as the rate of gold is approximately Rs 30,000 per 10gm.
 
 If buyers leave the market owing to this new tax, sellers will be forced to melt their old coins to extract at least the value of gold, or they will smuggle them abroad where taxes are low. Or people will simply deal in cash to avoid taxation. The business could be pushed underground in India. None of this fits with the current government’s insistence on cashless payment and transparency,” he says.
 
 Veera points to the silver jewellers’ town of Hupari near Kolhapur whose artisans like to source antique silver coins to extract pure metal to make payals. Melting old coins is a real danger, he says.
 
 “Numismatics is vital to protecting and promoting Indian culture and heritage. Small kings and principalities who are forgotten even by history books are only remembered by the coins they minted. Even children and college students love collecting coins. History is also a hobby,” he says.
 
