Yet another appalling murder of a   in the city created ripples of shock, even as it was revealed that a security guard at   — nabbed as the suspected killer — was confronted by the victim just a day earlier for obscene behaviour.

 Details emerging from the police have revealed that arrested security guard Bhaben Saikia, 26, had been pulled up by victim Rasila Raju OP, and had later approached her pleading for her to not escalate the matter. An argument ensued, and he is believed to have been overcome by rage and murdered her, strangulating the young woman with a computer cable in the room.
 
 Rasila, 24, was found lying in a pool of blood inside a conference room around 8 pm on Sunday, when another security guard spotted her. The deceased systems engineer is orginally from Kozhikode in Kerala.
 
 Saikia is a native of Assam; he was working as a security guard at Infosys for the last six or seven months. He was a staffer of Terrier Security Agency, which provides services to the Infosys campus in Phase II of the Hinjewadi IT Park. He was picked up from the Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus (CST) railway station in Mumbai in the wee hours of Monday and brought back to Pune for interrogation by police.
 
 Assistant commissioner of police (ACP) Vaishali Jadhav elaborated on the motive, saying, “During the interrogation, Saikia confessed that on Saturday, when Rasila was on duty, she had an argument with him. She had confronted him for staring at her in lewd manner. She had also threatened him that she would be escalating the issue with the management about his behaviour.”
 
 She added, “When we checked CCTV footage from the spot, we found that only Rasila entered that section around 2 pm on Sunday. She was working alone in the entire section, where she was coordinating with her colleagues who were online in Bangalore.”
 
 CCTV footage shows Rasila entering around 2 pm; other than her, there was no other employee present that day. There is controlled access inside the company’s building, by which only employees with specific access cards can enter. The security guards do not have that card.
 
 Jadhav further said, “While Rasila was working, Saikia requested that she use her card to help him enter, as he wanted to note down the details of some computers installed inside. Without suspecting any foul play, she used her card and gave him access. However, after he got in, he approached Rasila and asked her not to escalate the complaint from the earlier day to higher authorities. “Thereafter, they had a heated argument, and Saikia ripped out a LAN cable from a computer and strangulated her. When she collapsed on the floor, he kicked her with his leather shoes on her face to make sure she was dead,” the policewoman added.
 
 After killing Rasila, Saikia had not left the office campus immediately. He came down to the gate, where he coolly sat on duty for the next 1.5 hours. To ensure the needle of suspicion didn’t point towards him, he remained on the premises and handed over the charge to the next shift of security guards, leaving only around 6.30 pm. He then reached home, packed a bag and fled.
 
 Jadhav also said, “Rasila’s manager was calling her, but after 5 pm, she did not respond. Finally, he contacted security and asked them to check her desk. That’s when they found her dead.”
 
 Listing the security measures in place, Infosys released a statement saying, “We are committed to the safety of our employees. This unfortunate incident is a reminder that nothing is foolproof. We are continuing to seek recommendations and suggestions from different stakeholders on how we can strengthen the safety of our employees at our campuses and offices.”
 
 This is the second murder of a female techie in Pune within a span of two months. In December, Capgemini employee Antara Das was murdered outside her office in Talawade.
 
