MUMBAI: NCP hardened its position on the   government on Friday, a day after Shiv Sena ended its 20-year-old alliance with BJP for Mumbai civic polls.   Nawab Malik said his party would not step in to save the state government and would prefer mid-term assembly polls instead. A day ago, NCP boss   was non-committal when asked if his party would prop up the BJP-led government in Maharashtra in case Sena withdrew support to it. 

  BJP has 122 seats and Sena 63 seats in the 288-member assembly. BJP would need support in case Sena pulls out of the alliance. NCP has 41 MLAs and Congress 42 members. 
 
  Pawar, when asked if he would extend support to the state government, had said on Thursday, "I don't answer hypothetical questions. Let them take a call and come for discussions." 
 
  However, Malik said, "Uddhav has been accusing the government of corruption and must withdraw from the government. We won't bail out the Fadnavis regime. We are ready for mid-term polls." 
 
  Malik's comment assumes importance as, during the run-up to the assembly by-election in Bandra East in April 2015, Pawar, while campaigning for Congress nominee Narayan Rane, had observed that the Fadnavis government would collapse any moment either before or after the BMC polls owing to differences between BJP and Sena. "What Pawar said in 2015 has come true," Malik said. 
 
  Mumbai Congress president Sanjay Nirupam described the Sena's decision to snap ties with BJP as a big farce and accused the party of misleading the people of Mumbai. "If Uddhav is serious on terminating the alliance, he must first withdraw Sena nominees from the Union as well as state cabinet," Nirupam said. 
 
  In the event Uddhav does not take a decision, both PM Narendra Modi and Fadnavis must step in and sack Sena cabinet members from the Centre and state for making irresponsible statements against the government, Nirupam said. Former CM and state Congress president Ashok Chavan too asked Uddhav to quit if he was serious. "It is the most corrupt government in the state," Chavan said. 
 
