A few days after   members wrote to   director   expressing reservation over his movie on   president  , the director and the politician have clarified that the project was not being made for polit ical gains. While   claimed that the film `Bhoomiputra' will not target anyone, director Narayan has claimed that the film will only showcase the best CM that he seen and not Kumaraswamy.

 In an interview given to Kannada daily Vijaya Karnataka, Kumaraswamy said, “The film is not being made for promotions of coming assembly elections. The director and producer are making the movie due to their affection and love for me.Other than that, the film will not have any political motivations.“ Speaking about being the subject of a film, HDK said, “When I first heard about the project I wondered why me? But they convinced me that they were making a movie with a good message.But I refused when they asked me to act in the movie as I do not have that skill.“
 
 Kumaraswamy also held forth on the row the movie has engendered and said that he has asked the director to stay away from any controversial issue. “Only I know the truth about the incident of transferring power to BSY. However, I have requested the director to not target any politician or parties. I have requested him to showcase the projects I introduced for the public. The film will only feature the work that I did,“ he said.
 
 
 
 Speaking to Bangalore Mirror, director Narayan, said, “HDK is someone who I consider the best chief minister of our state till date. The film is not about Kumaraswamy, but it is about a chief minister. I do not know about his political spat with anyone. But I am making the movie from what I have seen of him,“ he said.On political intervention into the art form of movies, he said, “Nobody has the right to question my talent.Nobody can curb my creativity. It is my freedom to choose the subject. First of all, HDK himself did not ask me to make any changes in the film. But I must say, this film will only have good things. It will not promote political vendetta,“ he said.About the letter sent to him by BJP members, he said, “I saw the letter. I did not find anything harsh in what they wrote. They have just expressed their opinion and advised me. I will welcome suggestions from them. I promise that they would like the film; I promise them the experience of the art of a good film.“
 
