KOLKATA:   has always occupied a special place in the hearts of   and two Pujas — one in the east and the other in central Kolkata — have hit the bull’s eye by cashing in on the glitter of the pricey metal. Adorned with dazzling ornaments, the idols of   Sporting and Santosh Mitra Square have been grabbing lakhs of eyeballs every hour ever since the pandals were thrown open to public.

 According to organizers of both the Pujas, it has become a tough challenge to ensure safety of the jewellery, apart from security of the revellers. More than 500 trained security guards are now manning the Sree Bhumi Puja pandal through the day, said Dibyendu Goswami, secretary of  . The main pandal has around 25 CCTV cameras while 70 others are installed along the thoroughfares connecting the area. Layers of security arrangement has been put in place by at least three private security agencies.
 
 Security arrangements at Santosh Mitra Square are more or less identical. “We have signed a contract with security agencies to provide 300 guards trained in crowd management. All of them have been deployed in the main pandal arena,” said Pradip Ghosh, the president of Santosh Mitra Square Puja committee. This apart, the committee has installed 60 CCTVs inside the pandal to keep a watch on each and every movement. “We have set up a control room to monitor crowd movement round the clock,” Ghosh added. Here, the gold saree Goddess Durga is wearing weighs 30 kgs. The market value of the saree has been pegged at Rs 10 crore.
 
 For Sree Bhumi, adorning the idol with original jewellery is nothing new. Earlier, the organizers had roped in companies like   and Nemichand Bamalwa for jewellery of the idols. “The jeweller had to bring out flavour of a mythological period this time. It had to be different from the conventional designs,” Goswami said.
 
 So far as Santosh Mitra Puja is concerned, the artwork in gold was more challenging for the artisans, felt a Senco Gold executive. “As the work progressed, we realised that executing the design was difficult as it involved numerous turns and contours. After Agnimitra Paul designed it, around 40 artisans worked for nearly three months to give it a shape. We have never done this before, but it looked beautiful when finished,” said Subhankar Sen, executive director of Senco Gold. 
 
 While Senco did not comment on the price of the gold being used in the idols, an official of the gold major confirmed that 60 kgs of gold have been used for beautification of the idols.
 
 Apart from making elaborate security arrangements, the other important step was to insure them before they were sent to pandals. Sources in the insurance sector said that normally jewellery or gold is insured for 15 days in such cases. Taking 0.3% of the value of the material, insurance premium for the saree and jewellery could go up to Rs 2 lakh. 
 
 
