An ageing population, a skewed birth-death ratio, community leaders unbending over   and   have resulted in the   falling drastically in the city. Compared to a fall of 18 per cent nationally, Ahmedabad witnessed 24 per cent decline in   population in the past three years. The torch bearers of the community rue the fact that despite the Centre launching   in 2013-’14 to arrest the decline of the Parsi population, it has steadily gone down.

 The scheme comprises two components — advocacy and medical component — under which workshops are held to create awareness about the decline in the population and providing medical assistance to boost community’s population via Assisted Reproductive Technologies (ART). In the past three years, there has been a decrease of over 400 Parsis in the city. According to Brigadier (retd) J P Anklesaria, president of the Ahmedabad Parsi Panchayat, “As of 2013, there were about 1,770 Parsis in Ahmedabad and today, there are 1,350. With a skewed birth and death ratio in the community, this is bound to happen.” On an average, against 24 to 25 deaths in the community every year, there are only 9 to 10 births, Anklesaria said.
 
 About the programme and its effect, he said, “There has been no effect, at least in terms of statistics. No couple in Ahmedabad is part of the programme.” Leaders of the programme claim that 70 per cent of the programme revolves around advocacy and changing the mindset of community members. Dr Shernaz Cama, director of the PARZOR Foundation that is associated with the programme, said, “Even the Indian Council for Medical Research agrees that changing the views of the community in matters of marriageable age, bearing children and so on is more important.”
 
 Pearl Mistry, counsellor for the programme from Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS) in Mumbai, said, “The Parsi population in India is on an 18 per cent decline at the moment. Hence, our main thrust is on advocacy, as it will change mindset in the long term. Also, infertility isn’t the only problem. It definitely is one, but not a major one. Other problems like bearing no children or only one, marrying late and not marrying at all are problems that can only be solved through advocacy.”
 
 On the lack of couples coming forward for the programme, Mistry said, “We have held two to three counselling sessions in Ahmedabad and we got a good response. However, one must also understand that there are only 20 per cent people in the childbearing age and a lot of them already have two children. So, all we can do is hope that they have a third one.” Members of the committee also said they are set to hold another camp in the city soon.
 
 Reasons for decline
  Ageing population, skewed birth and death ratio, infertility
  Ideas of intermarriage and conversion have been a source of contention within the community.
  Within conservative circles, women who marry outside the faith are no longer considered Parsi. Neither they, nor their children are permitted at fire temple. While men can marry a non-Parsi and have Parsi children.
  Late marriages or not marrying at all has also resulted in a fading population.
 
 Popular Parsis in city
  Rustom Cama, businessman
  Bejan Daruwalla, astrologer
  Piruz Khambatta, businessman
  Meher Medora, author
  Mehnaz Damania, actress
  Vispi Siganporia, musician
  MF Dastur, chief fire officer
 
 Census figures
 Since 2001, the Parsi population has declined to 57,264 in 2011, an approximate 18% drop from 69,601
 
 
