 Though no city from Bihar figured on the first list of airports covered under   of government of India on Thursday, senior officials in state   directorate claimed that Patna, Bihta, Gaya, Purnia and Darbhanga airfields would be connected under the   in the near future. Passengers would be able to fly at a fixed fare of Rs 2,500 per person for flight durations up to one hour.
 
  Officials said airstrips at Bhagalpur, Kishanganj, Birpur, Valmiki Nagar, Rajgir and Gopalganj would also be developed to ensure their coverage under Udan scheme following a resolution taken in this regard by the state cabinet on Tuesday.
  
  Union minister of state for civil aviation Jayant Sinha announced on Thursday that 31 new cities across the country will be covered under Udan scheme and flight operations would commence from such cities within a month in first phase.
  
  “While flight operation is already going on from Patna, Bihta and Gaya, process is underway for commencement of civil aviation operations from Purnia and Darbhanga airbases as well. In fact, Rs 260 crore was recently transferred to Purnia district administration for acquisition of around 50 acres of land near Chunapur airbase for development of civil terminal. Besides, an approval is awaited from Indian Air Force and Airports Authority of India for commencement of commercial flight operation at Darbhanga airbase as well,” said Captain Deepak Kumar Singh, director (operation) –cum–chief pilot, directorate of civil aviation.
  
  As per the resolution taken by the state cabinet on Tuesday, the state government would enter into a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with AAI for commencing regional flight operations as envisaged by Udan scheme, which was launched in November last year.
  
  “As per the guidelines of Udan scheme, central and state governments would provide subsidy to the operators in the ratio of 80:20 in order to ensure financial viability of short distance flight operation. We are expecting 9-20 seater aircraft with single or double engines to operate under this scheme,” said captain Deepak.
  
  There are 21 airfields in Bihar. Of these, three – Bihta, Purnia and Darbhanga – are under the control of Indian Air Force. Nine other airfields, including Jehanabad and Ara, are in the category of ‘kachha’ and abandoned airfields. The rest are under the category of metalled runways having reinforced cement  
  
  “The airfields having runway length of 3,000-4000ft, such as Bhagalpur, Kishanganj, Birpur (Supaul), Valmiki Nagar (West Champaran), Rajgir (Nalanda) and Gopalganj are likely to be developed to facilitate commercial flight operation under Udan scheme. Thereafter, other airfields at places including Begusarai, Madhubani, Saharsa and Forbesganj would be developed in later stages,” said Captain Deepak.
