CHANDRAPUR: Two villages with the same name, Macchiguda, located in the remote and difficult   hillocks along the Maharashtra-Telangana state border saw electricity bulbs glowing in their village for first time on Monday.

 Pursued by MSEDCL officers, villagers agreed to get   Now, nearly every house in both the villages have power supply.
 
 The two villages are located nearly 125km from the district headquarters at Jiwti tehsil. Living at the furthest end of the district on the state border, these villages with identical names are identified by adding the names of neighbouring villages. Macchiguda (Shengaon) and Macchiguda (Bhari) have 11 and 7 houses respectively.
 
 Both the settlements are completely tribal and rely on farming and honey collection from forest for livelihood. Being located in the remote terrain, they were electrified only a few years back under the Rajiv Gandhi Rural Electrification scheme.
 
 However, none of the villagers applied for power connection. With no takers for electricity, MSEDCL too had snapped power supply after breakdown in the supply line. An MSEDCL officer said the villagers were accustomed to living in the lights of lamp fuelled by kerosene or some domestic fuel. Hence, they never bothered to seek power supply, even as a supply line was laid in the villages a few years back.
 
 However, the MSEDCL’s   was keen on electrifying every village under its jurisdiction. Accordingly, it held a special camp for providing power connection in both the villages and guided the villagers about the importance of power supply.
 
 All seven residents of Macchiguda (Bhari) and 10 of the 11 residents of Macchiguda (Shengaon) sought power connection during the camp.
 
 The MSEDCL officers, who brought the electric meter, main switch, service cable, etc to the village, were welcomed by the traditional flock dance by Kolam tribals. Mangilal Rathod, deputy executive engineer of MSEDCL (Jiwti sub-division), and junior engineer  , with the help of their subordinates made sure that both the villages get power supply immediately after receipt of application.
 
 
