PUNE: Chief minister   on Tuesday told TOI that his government was not putting any pressure on officers to meet the target of making the state open   under the  .

 The recent arrest of an assessor of the project in Aurnagabad for demanding bribe from a civic officer to fabricate the Swachh Bharat ranking of the city triggered posers on the execution of the Modi government’s one of the most ambitious programmes. There were whispers from some quarters that the state government officials were under pressure to meet the Swachh Bharat Mission (SBM) targets. But the chief minister refuted the allegation and said the mission was being implemented according to the government rules in the Maharashtra.
 
 The apprehension of experts and social activists that the government officials were hand in glove with the central and state government-appointed assessors to fabricate the toilet numbers to achieve targets was substantiated with the recent arrest of SBM assessor Shailendra Bajaniya in Aurangabad for allegedly demanding Rs2.5 lakh for rating the city high on the rankings.
 
 Repeatedly insisting that the state must respond to Prime Minister Modi’s appeal and join the league of open defecation free states, chief minister Fadnavis said the government was following the regulations of the mission. When asked if the government was under pressure to achieve the 100% target and so putting pressure on its officers, he said it was not the case.
 
 “The first step in the mission is self-validation. After it is done, the state validates and only then the role of central agencies comes into force,” he said, explaining the verification of open defecation status was done at three stages.
 
 The mission — the central government’s largest-ever sanitation programme — has been subdivided into urban and rural components. The principal resolve of the mission is to make India open defection free by October 2, 2019 — Mahatma Gandhi’s 150th birth anniversary.
 
 “Till date, only three states — Sikkim, Himachal Pradesh and Kerala — have achieved the objective. Maharashtra needs to create a positive picture because Modi has high hopes from the Fadnavis government. The state desperately needs a positive picture at this juncture and the chief minister is keen on meeting the mission target. It is not only about the mission, but also about internal politics of the BJP. The party’s chief ministers are trying hard to please the Prime Minister by assisting him in his ambitious programme. The matter was also discussed in the BJP’s national convention,” said one of the senior officials involved in SBM (Gramin) Maharashtra.
 
 Zilla Parishad officials and employees working in the mission in Marathwada and north Maharashtra are under tremendous pressure because these two regions are not doing well according to the state government’s records. Out of 34 districts in the state, lowest performing districts come from these regions.
 
 “Now, we have reached a stage where our jobs are at stake. It has become very difficult to tackle the pressure. Achieving 100% open defecation in these tribal areas is a daunting task and we have repeatedly communicated to the government that we need more time to convince people. As the pressure is increasing, we are now focusing on construction of toilets and achieving numbers,” admitted one of the officials working with the SBM in Nandurbar district in north Maharashtra.
 
 The top central and state government officials in charge of the mission are not ready to speak on the matter. “There is a fear among officials that the moment they speak to reporters, negative stories will come out and that will hamper the mission. Hence, the overall approach is to just do the work as fast as possible without any publicity,” said a mission official, requesting anonymity.
 
 Solapur activist Praful Kadam said lack of communication had complicated things. He said the government had messed up with the mission.
 
 “Public participation and clear communication would facilitate the mission’s implementation. But the government is unnecessarily indulged in creating confusion with wrong or no communication with masses,” he observed.
 
 Baba Shinde, an activist from   in Pune district, is hopeful about the mission. His village 100% open defecation free, he insisted that despite all problems and hurdles, the mission was vital for people.
 
 “Slowly but steadily people are realizing the importance of toilets. The government’s idea to link toilets to government schemes has worked well in villages. We must give some time to officials and people as well to realize the dream of open defecation free village. This is one of the major missions, which will help the state and the nation to become clean and healthy,” said Shinde.
 
