BATHINDA: The Congress heaved a sigh of relief in Malwa as eight of its rebel candidates in five constituencies of the politically important region of Punjab withdraw their nomination papers just before the deadline on Saturday. Two dissenters, however, remained adamant on contesting from two other assembly segments against the party’s official candidates.

 On Friday, Punjab Congress president Captain   had issued a warning to such rebels saying that they should either toe the party like or face expulsion for life from the organization. His caveat, however, did not move Congress general secretary Rajinder Deepa who refused to withdraw nomination as an independent candidate from Sunam assembly segment in Sangrur district. The ticket for Suman has been allotted to   general secretary Daman Kaur Bajwa.
 
 Similarly, Sukraj Singh Natt also did not withdraw his nomination papers from Maur assembly segment in Bathinda district. The Congress has fielded Dera Sacha Sauda head Gurmeet Ram Rahim’s close relative Harminder Singh Jassi from here. Jassi got partial relief as another rebel   Gora decided not to contest.
 
 The maximum three such candidates withdrew their nomination papers at Mansa, including Gurpreet Kaur Gagowal, Ayushi Sharma and Gurpreet Singh. Gagowal had contested the 2012 assembly elections from Mansa on Congress ticket and had lost by 1,305 votes but this time ticket was denied to her in favour of former MLA Mangat Rai Bansal’s wife Manju Bansal.
 
 Satpal Mulowal and Jagtar Singh, who had filed papers as rebel Congress candidates from Budhlada reserve assembly in Mansa district, also opted out. Mulowal was allotted the party ticket in 2012 but this time the party fielded former IPS officer Sukhdev Singh Bhatti’s wife and former Peoples Party of Punjab leader Ranjit Kaur Bhatti.
 
 Congress rebel Baldev Singh also withdrew from contest against official Congress candidate Rajwinder Kaur Bhagike from Nihal Singhwala assembly constituency in Moga district. Bhagike was elected as MLA on SAD ticket but upon denial of ticket she had joined the Congress and got the ticket.
 
 Former MLA Mohinder Kumar Rinwa withdrew his nomination papers from Fazilka assembly constituency and provided major big relief to official candidate Davinder Ghubaya, who is son of SAD MP Sher Singh Ghubaya. Rinwa was the main aspirant of party ticket but failed to get it.
 
 Congress rebel candidate Bhupinder Singh Gora withdrew nominations from Maur assembly constituency in Bathinda, unlike Natt.
 
 Punjab Congress vice president Manpreet Badal said, “Party welcome the initiative of those who have withdrawn nominations against our official candidates. They will be adjusted suitably after the Congress forms government in Punjab.”
 
 
