INDORE: Breaking a 150 year old tradition, the Madhya Pradesh government switched to the January-December financial year inviting scores of hurdles and complexities for the business community already caught in a puzzle with the upcoming Goods and Services tax (GST) regime.

 The surprise announcement by the state government without taking the business community in confidence has upset industrialists and industry associations.
 
 Industry associations claimed that the change in financial year will add to confusion and make the process of filing returns strenuous.
 
 Girish Mangla, convener, ease of doing business,   ( ) said, “The announcement to change the financial year came out of the blue. The state government should have aligned the decision with the Centre before making any announcement for its practical implementation.”
 
 Industry participants said the change will create unnecessary hassles for business houses as it is practically not feasible to follow two financial years at the same time. They added that the new financial year will require large-scale changes in software, both online and offline, leading to cost escalations.
 
 Madhya Pradesh cabinet on Tuesday changed the financial year from the current one of April to March. As per the announcement, the state budget will be tabled in the assembly in December-January and financial closings will be done in December.
 
 Financial experts said the change in year will upset the collection of data and it might take a long time to return to normalcy, therefore citizen services will be adversely impacted.
 
 Not in favour of the change, the   cited it will pose a series of difficulties for businesses and the administrative machinery.   was approached by the committee set up to assess the change to determine its “impact on business”.
 
 Kamisha  , senior member, ICAI, Indore chapter said, “ICAI does not favour the change but did suggest accelerating and automating data collection and statistical-analytical tools to improve utilising budgetary allocations.”
 
 Soni added the advantages arising out of the change would be marginal in view of the innumerable considerations to formulate budget policies. According to ICAI, drought is an exceptional phenomena and the country cannot build institutional models like “FY” on exceptions.
 
 CII had said that with Madhya Pradesh being a primarily agrarian economy, the budget should be prepared after agriculture incomes for the year are received. If the budget is presented in November, then early allocations will help the agro economy.
 
