BENGALURU: The  ,  , throws the spotlight on the   who fought in France during  .

 Over a 1,40,000   defended France against invasion during World War 1. But far from being feted, their story lay forgotten, gathering dust on the gravestones at the Neuve-Chapelle Indian Memorial in France. Which is why when Paris-based filmmaker Vijay Singh visited the place on an invitation a few years back, there wasn't much that he was aware of, beyond already-known facts ­it is a tribute to some 4,702 soldiers who'd lost their lives in the Battle of NeuveChapelle. Piqued by the war memorial, Singh would later chance upon a book in French that contained letters written by these Indian soldiers. The letters and the stories behind them fascinated him enough to want to make a docufiction about them. Singh was in Bengaluru recently to screen the film, Farewell My Indian Soldier.Made over a period of five years, the docu-fiction evocatively narrates the story of Indian soldiers using 100-year old war songs, over 600 insightful letters and personal testimonies. There's a lot of information that would fascinate any history buff.
 
 For one, the Indian soldiers, most of whom came from the hinterlands of India, found France to be a different universe. There were no divisions of caste or religion.Unlike the British who kept their woman away from the Indian soldiers at home, in France, the bravehearts were coveted by the mademoiselles. “In fact, the French title of the docu-fiction is Mademoiselle France Pleure. It translates in English to `Miss France in Tears'. This was what French women would write on banners when they were bidding goodbyes to the Indian soldiers who'd temporarily live in French villages for some R&R during the war,“ explains Singh.
 
 “I'd like to believe that this warm reception gave the soldiers' a first-hand taste of the French values of Liberty, Equality and Fraternity,“ Singh says.
 
 And the admiration was mutual. Indian soldiers would write home several letters praising these independent, educated French women who were running their towns in the absence of their men.“Everyone here is educated, even the women. Send our daughter to school,“ reads one of the letters featured in the documentary .
 
 Ironic as it may sound, many a love bloomed between the brave Indian soldiers and their free-spirited French hostesses during the period of conflict, spawning children with Indo-French bloodlines.It is also the stories of these IndoFrench children that Singh tells.
 
 Journeying through France, Belgium, England and India, the film traces the history through the eyes of one such young descendent, whom Singh met serendipitously.
 
 “I happened to discuss the idea of the film with a friend of mine and he told me about this woman who'd apparently approached him during an exhibition of Indian soldiers' artifacts. She told him that her grandfather was an Indian soldier who'd fought in the war in France. She then asked my friend if he could help her find his family in India. My friend was just a bureaucrat and so the conversation ended there. And because they didn't exchange numbers, there was no way for me to get in touch with her,“ recalls Singh.
 
 The lady's name was Monique Soupart and finding her again, as the director reveals, turned out to be a story in itself. “I approached the local paper of the place she was from and got them to publish a couple of articles about how we were looking for stories on Indian soldiers who had fought in France.“
 
 Singh hit pay dirt after waiting for a few months.
 
 While he is happy with the reception of the film, the filmmaker is quite disappointed with India's disinterest in its history. “The first unit that was deployed in France during World War I was 15 Ludhiana, which is 2 Sikh battalion, today. There are a lot of records stored away in archives in Britain.Why is India not taking any interest in preserving them?“ Singh asks, sadly.
 
