THIRUVNANANTHAPURAM: According to   leadership in New Delhi, a decision on   president   would be made only after AICC president  , who is abroad for medical treatment, returns. The state leaders were informed that the resignation has not been accepted yet.

 Sources said the   had to convey this to state leaders as several aspirants have come up for the post. It is learnt that at least half a dozen leaders, backed by senior leaders   and Ramesh Chennithala, have started lobbying for the post.
 
 Sources said chances were high that the high command would appoint an interim   till the organizational polls get over. The polls, which have been pending for several years, are likely to be held in a few months. The ‘A’ group in the Congress has already demanded organizational polls and the demand has been communicated by its leader Chandy to AICC vice-president Rahul Gandhi during their last meeting.
 
 This has prompted both the ‘A’ and ‘I’ groups to press for their nominees. It is learnt that the ‘A’ group has decided to project KPCC vice-president M M Hassan as the senior leader and Chandy had discussed the same with the ‘I’ group the other day.
 
 However, the ‘I’ group is of the opinion that the high command could choose a suitable person to lead the party. The group leaders believe that V D Satheesan, another vice-president of KPCC who is supposedly close to Rahul Gandhi, would be selected for the post if the high command takes a call based on merit. The upcoming Lok Sabha bypoll in Malappuram mandates the presence of an active president.
 
 Meanwhile, a group of Youth Congress leaders have approached AICC general secretary Mukul Wasnik, who is in charge of Kerala, to ensure that the new president is able to bring in a positive change and rejuvenate the organization. They suggested to find a person in the age group of 45 to 55 years, part of the generation that followed the present leadership of the party.
 
 “It would be great if the well-defined process, which was charted during the DCC president selection, can be utilized for the selection of new KPCC president. This would help the party avoid widespread allegations regarding imposing of decisions by high command in PCCs,” said a mail sent to Wasnik by a youth Congress leader.
 
 It also added that the opinion of the political affairs committee members, senior leaders and members of parliament could be considered. “This would enable the newly-elected president to function within the party, with the support of entire party men and also would give an impression that decisions are being taken through discussions and after considering the opinion of senior leaders as well,” said the mail.
 
 
