NAINITAL: Facing domestic violence for years and divorced twice,   is now caught between devil and the deep sea. She was given triple talaq by her husband Asif Ali in front of Gadarpur police officials in February this year and later barred her from meeting two of their children. Failing to find help from authorities, the 32-year-old woman appeared in a video recently in which she said she is better off converting to Hinduism where “things such as triple talaq do not happen”. The clip that went viral a few days ago also shows her eight-year-old daughter pleading Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath to intervene in the matter. “The other option that I have is to commit suicide,” Jahan added.
 
  Hailing from   in   district, Jahan’s struggle began as early as 2013 when she had filed several applications citing demands for dowry and domestic violence against her husband, including one of attempt to murder. “My husband tried to kill me once when we went to Almora in 2013. He had hired killers for Rs 50,000 to murder me. I had also complained to the then senior superintendent of police but nothing came of it,” alleged Jahan.
  
  Ali and Jahan married in 2002 and together they have three children – a 10-year-old son and two daughters, aged eight and five. While the eight-year-old daughter lives with her, the other two kids stay with her husband and are not allowed to meet Jahan. According to sources, the couple first divorced in October 2016 but remarried after a nikah halala was conducted. Halala is an Islamic marriage in which a female divorcee marries someone else, consummates the marriage and then gets a divorce in order to remarry her previous husband.
  
  “Ali shouted triple talaq in front of a police official in Gadarpur station. He then asked me to move out of the house. I started living in my parents’ house with one of our daughters. All of this now forces me to think if it would be better to convert to the Hindu religion. I can at least expect justice. Police have not helped me either. I want my voice and that of many others to reach PM Modi and CM Yogi Adityanath,” said Jahan.
  
  Senior superintendent of police ( ) Sadanand Date said, “The matter will be investigated and necessary action will be taken.”
