VISAKHAPANAM: It seems as though Visakhapatnam has undergone another round of direct observation for Swachh Survekshan as delegates from across the country descended on the district to observe the best sanitation practices of the city on Friday. 

 The delegates visited different parts of the city, including   road, Kirlampudi Layout, Collector Office road and Chavulamadum in the morning. They took a peek at the unique night sweeping initiative by GVMC.
 
 In a concrete step to bring 500 AMRUT (Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation) cities under one roof, the union ministry of   conducted the first capacity building workshop in Visakhapatnam on Friday in association with Water and Sanitation for the Urban Poor (WSUP). This was the first workshop in a series of 15 planned from July 7 to December 22 in 15 cities, which outscored other cities in Swachh Survekshan-2017. Representatives from all the cities will participate in the impending workshops.
 
 GVMC commissioner, M Hari Narayanan said that such workshops would make the participants familiar with the best practices of a city. In his words, “The representatives can adopt the model in designing sanitation plans in their respective states.” 
 
 Akhilesh Gautam, director of WSUP Country Programme told TOI that many states and cities are lagging behind others when it comes to Swachh Survekshan rankings. “Representatives from 15 cities, which shone in Swachh Survekshan rankings, have been chosen to host the workshops. The next meeting will be conducted in Surat on July 23. Representatives from Surat, Bellary, Mumbai, Varanasi and Erode among others have participated in workshop held in Vizag,” he said. 
 
 B Balaswamy, secretary, Tirupati Municipal Corporation said, “We have introduced E-toilets and taken other initiaitives to step up cleanliness in  .” 
 
 Dr A Hemanth, chief medical officer, GVMC explained various initiatives taken by them in the recent past such as scientific landfilling, bio-mining, construction and demolition of waste plant, waste-to-energy plant, roads laid with plastic, compost making with garbage, source segregation of garbage and so on.
 
