It’s only March and mercury has already crossed the threshold of 40 degree Celsius. Nashikites still have to endure the rest of summer. And with the increasing heat, it has become absolutely impossible to get out of home. Hot weather is also taking a toll on Nashikites’ daily fitness schedule. “It is absolutely impossible to keep up with rigorous fitness routine anymore because the heat seems to drain you off all energy,” says Sarthak Palve, a mechanical engineer by profession. 

  Jogging tracks, which were attracting a fair crowd till now, are becoming less crowded day-by-day. However, to avoid excessive heat, Nashikites have adopted a new fitness fanda: Night jogging. “I used go for a jog in the morning, but now I go for a jog in the night. I changed my schedule because of increasing heat,” says  , a third year engineering student from Sandeep Foundation and a frequent jogger at  . “If I go for a jog in the morning, it becomes hot quickly and it becomes impossible to finish my routine. However, during night, the temperature is relatively low and sometimes you can also experience light breeze. So I prefer exercising at night during summer. I start jogging at 8.30 or 9 and give an hour for it. You would be amazed to see how many people are there at jogging track even at night. The crowd hangs around till 11 pm,” he further adds.
 
  
 
 
   , a fitness trainer from city believes that night jogging can help you set your fitness routine on track. “Many people stop exercising during summer because they feel exhausted. The rising mercury doesn’t help either. Besides, if you don’t go for a jog before sunrise during summer, odds are that you will suffer from either dehydration or worse heatstroke,” she adds. 
 
  
 
 
 
  Although night jogging is becoming newest fitness trend is city, one must consider these points as well
 
  Never go for a jog at unknown places
 
  Stick to jogging tracks for night jogging because they would provide you right ambience and safety
 
  Avoid jogging on roads, especially those which don’t have street lights, because there is a danger of meeting with an accident
 
  Even if you are jogging at night and sweating less compared to day time, don’t forget to keep yourself hydrated
 
 
