KANPUR: Reacting sharply to the   ( ) order on Thursday regarding shifting of local  , the   has asked the government to prepare a time-bound project report in consultation with the tannery representatives that could be forwarded to the tribunal for action. 

 Quoting the order, general secretary of the association Firoz Alam said: "The tribunal has not directed to shift tanneries within six weeks. In fact, the state of UP has been asked to submit an action plan within six weeks from the date of the order on the issue of shifting of tanneries."
 
 "The tribunal has directed the state of UP, Jal Nigam, Nagar Nigam and UPSIDC to hold due consultation with the director of National Mission for Clean Ganga and the   and submit a complete project report giving a time-bound programme for completion of the project in terms of the directions," he claimed.
 
 He said that the order is clear and his association would now ask the government to convene a meeting and prepare a project report to submit it within the stipulated time so that its execution is planned well in advance.
 
 He pointed out that the content in para 15 of page 505 of the report states, "In the event the directions are not carried out in true spirit and substance and report is not placed before the tribunal within the stipulated time, then the tannery industries at Jajmau shall be directed to be shut down and would be shifted to a new industrial site which is fully developed having provisions of common effluent treatment plant (CETP) and common chromium recovery plant (CCRP)."
 
 He further pointed out that para 15 of the order states that "in view of directions of the apex court and Allahabad high court, the tribunal directs that the state of UP along with the associations of the industries shall submit a project action plan as directed, failing which it shall take steps for shifting the tannery industrial complex from Jajmau to the identified site at Banthar (Unnao) or any other land identified by the state with in that period".
 
 He said that his association was ready to comply with the NGT order and extend full support to the state government in preparing a project report and submit it within the stipulated time to the tribunal.
 
 A local tannery owner, Taj Alam, declined any comment saying he would first go through the order. 
 
 Another tannery owner, Ghulam Mohiuddin, termed the order as "unfavourable" for the sector. "Shifting tanneries is not as easy as is being made out and would require a lot of time, planning and effort," he said.
 
 
