KOLKATA: Former Prime Minister   on Friday warned academics against the   and   at   and urged authorities to zealously guard their autonomy as well as students’ right to express dissent.

 Speaking at the 200th founder’s day programme of   University, Singh said every university must give its students the freedom to pursue knowledge, even where that knowledge may be at odds with established intellectual and social traditions. 
 
 “Political interference in university curriculum and academic appointment is highly short-sighted. Recent attempts to interfere with free expression of the student community in Hyderabad Central University and JNU are of particular concern. Attempts to suppress peaceful dissent are not only inimical to learning, they are also undemorcratic. We must make every effort to protect the automony of our universities,” Singh told the audience that included five vice-chancellors of universities in Bengal.
 
 On the eve of   taking over as the 45th American President, the former PM touched upon the threat posed by rise in neo-nationlism across the world and the tendancy to pander to populism and direct hatred against backward classes and minorities. “These tendencies can be extremely destructive. We must protect India from this threat and universities have a rightful role to play in this regard,” he said.
 
 Pointing out that true nationalism is found where students and citizens are encouraged to think and speak freely and where dissent is encoraged, the economist ‘who strayed into politics by accident’ stressed that India needed to emerge as a stronger, more cohesive and self-sustaining democracy. 
 
 “We are a mature vital democracy. We are not afraid to look at ourselves and think of how we can do better. Our willingness and ability to engage with dissent is a sign of our inherent strength,” said Singh.
 
 Quoting India’s Jawaharlal Nehru from a speech made at Allahabad University barely four months after Independence, where the first PM had said: “A university stands for humanism, for tolerance, for reason, for progress, for the adventures of ideas and for the search for truth. It stands for the onward march of the human race towards even higher objectives...”, Singh pointed out that the words were just as true today as they were in 1947. He reminded everyone present that India’s youth depended on universities like Presidency to prepare them to be critical thinking and contributing members of society. 
 
 
