NAGPUR: The windy clime of the city on Sunday morning was, coincidentally, a perfect ambience for classical vocalist pandit Dhananjay Joshi’s recital. He was chosen to perform as part of Brahmnaad, a monthly musical morning programme organized by SCZCC ( ) on its premises in Civil Lines.

 He was accompanied by Jagdish Deshmukh on tabla and Gangadhar Dev on harmonium. Deshmukh, also from Nanded, has accompanied various musicians such as noted singer Hridaynath Mangeshkar and others. Dev is an All India Radio-approved artist. Dilip Padhye anchored the programme by giving a background about the songs Deshmukh was singing.   commenced the programme and welcomed the guests.
 
 Joshi, who hails from Nanded, said, “People often ask me how I manage to play music only with academies. Along with practising music, I am a professor of physics in a college in Nanded. Music is a combination of physics and math.”
 
 Joshi began his concert with a rendition of raag Nat Bhairav. “The raag is a combination of Nat and Bhairav. It is not a single identity in itself,” he said. Remembering his guru pandit CR vyas, Joshi sang two bandish composed by Vyas — ‘gunj rahi kirat tumhari, chahu aur sangeet jagat mein’ in vilambit ektaal; and ‘Surajit Chanda Jab Tak Phire’ in Dhrut.
 
 Padhye kept enlightening the audience with context, infusing knowledge between Vyas’s songs. “It was difficult for most people to digest classical music. This saw the advent of natyasangeet,” he said. Joshi, who is well known for natyasangeet, sang ‘jay Shankara ganga dhara’ in raag Abhir Bhairav.
 
 Joshi then sang ‘ya nav naval nayanotsava’ in raag Khamaj. He followed it up with a bhakti song, ‘nahi punyachi mojani, nahi papachi tochani,’ composed by poet BB Borkar and written by pandit Jitendra Abhisheki. He then sang Marathi natyageet, ‘de haata sharnagata’ by Chota Gandharva.
 
 Joshi ended the programme with a song from play Yayati Devyani, ‘tam nischecha saral bharatvakya’ in raag Bhairavi, composed by pandit Abhisheki.
 
