CHENNAI:   deputy general secretary TTV Dinakaran, who is facing two money laundering cases before an economic offences court in Chennai, on Wednesday told the court that he would move the Madras high court to get an adverse order passed by the HC against him recalled. 

 On February 1, the high court reversed the trial court’s order and asked him to face trial in the two 20-year-old money laundering cases.
 
 Dinakaran is facing Enforcement Directorate proceedings for money laundering. He is facing charges under FERA (the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act).
 
 Of the two ED cases, one pertains to transfer of 1.04 crore US dollars to Dipper Investments through Barclay Bank, Virgin Islands, and the other relates to transfer of 44.37 lakh pounds through Westbank Limited, Ireland.
 
 On May 18, 2015, an economic offences court in Egmore here discharged Dinakaran from the two cases, besides discharging AIADMK general secretary V K Sasikalaa from the Bharani Beach Resorts case in which she had been charged with transferring 19.9 lakh US dollars (about Rs 3 crore as per the exchange rate then) through a staff member at Indian Bank's Abhiramapuram branch.
 
 However, on February 1, Justice G Chockalingam of the Madras high court set aside the discharge of Dinakaran and Sasikala, paving the way for resumption of trial against Dinakaran. Sasikala is in jail, after being convicted by the Supreme Court in the Rs 66.65-crore disproportionate assets case on February 14, 2017.
 
 Dinakaran’s counsel, who had been maintaining all along that the AIADMK leader would file appeals in the Supreme Court against the high court order, changed stance on Wednesday when he informed the economic offences court-II judge, Malarmathi, that they would now file a recall petition in the high court. On this ground, they sought adjournment of trial proceedings.
 
 However, M Dhandapani, senior prosecutor for the Enforcement Directorate, objected to long adjournments. When the judge sought to post the matter to Thursday for hearing, Dinakaran’s counsel Jeenasenan said the AIADMK leader was planning to file his nomination for the   on Thursday, hence he could not appear in person. The case was then adjourned to Friday for further hearing.
 
 If a recall petition is filed, it will come up for hearing before the same judge, Justice Chockalingam, who had reversed their discharge.
 
 
