NAGPUR: Being residents of a  , smart water management is a must for  . This was the motto at the 49th convention of   (IWWA) held at VNIT Auditorium on Thursday.

 IWWA, with its unique approach, is active in conducting activities in the field of water supply, waste water treatment and disposal.
 
 Prominent among those present at the inaugural function were Vishram Jamdar, chairman of the governing body of   (VNIT), Rajesh Gupta, president of IWWA, Uttam Parsekar, vice-president and Pramod Nirbhavne, secretary general. Several IWWA employees from all over India were present along with delegates from  . A souvenir of the convention was also released.
 
 Addressing the gathering, Jamdar said, “Symbol of the convention rightly depicts the fact that water is more important than Earth. Water encompasses it,” he said. “Marching forward with similar thoughts, VNIT has also adopted a smart water management technique. Water will be in circulation and used for gardens and other purposes. With the water thus saved, we want to work towards cleaning Nag River too,” he added. Smart water management will contribute a great deal to the nation and it is the need of the hour, he added. 
 
 Many awards were presented and services of dedicated and efficient employees of IWWA were given due recognition during the programme. Many awardees were from Nagpur centre of IWWA, like Pawan Labshetwar, secretary. He received ‘Jal Nirmlata’ award, considered to be one of the most precious among all. Best lecture awards were given to Shweta Banerjee and Ritesh Vijay, among others. Mumbai got K Shah memorial shield for the best-managed IWWA centre.
 
 Around 62 stalls were put up in which everything related to water management, right from pipes to operation and software, was on display. Also, various innovative ideas related to waste water management and recycling techniques were introduced. Kiswok, a one-stop destination for the finest ductile iron pipe fittings, had innovative and high quality pipe fittings at a cheaper cost. DVPL presented the model of a 5-in-1 valve result-based solution. It is fully automated and the running cost of each unit is just Rs2,000 per annum. It gave a fixed outlet pressure and flow rate too. Another smart choice for residential water metering was flowIQ device, a cost-effective solution developed by Kamstrup. Around 750 visitors lauded the efforts of IWWA.
 
