MUMBAI: The crisis-ridden   led by   Sanjay Deshmukh will be unable to declare   of the 400-odd examinations before July 31, notwithstanding the deadline set by Governor Ch Vidyasagar Rao.

 A high-ranking bureaucrat said the varsity may not be able to declare the results of law, commerce and management   before August 6. “Despite best efforts, it will be difficult for the university to declare the results before August 6 due to acute shortage of staff. Lawyers are not available for valuation of law papers, while for commerce too, adequate staff is not available. We are looking for support from universities and lawyers across the state,’’ he said.
 
 At a high-level meeting convened by legislative council chairman Ram Raje Naik Nimbalkar, university officials admitted it would not be possible to adhere to the deadline. The meeting was attended by education minister Vinod Tawde, higher and technical education secretary S J Kunte, Deshmukh and legislators Sanjay Dutt and Anil Parab.
 
 Congress members Sharad Ranpise and Dutt had on Wednesday moved a calling attention notice to discuss the state of affairs at Mumbai University, particularly the delay in declaration of results. It was observed that out of 477 exams conducted by Mumbai University in April and May, it had failed to declare results of at least 400 within 45 days. Nimbalkar had assured the House he would convene a meeting of legislators and university officials to discuss the issue.
 
 Alarmed by media criticism of the varsity’s failure, Rao had on July 4 convened a meeting of varsity officials to know why there was a delay and steps being taken to declare results as early as possible. Rao had then set a July 31 deadline. He had convened another meeting on July 24 to review the status. A visibly upset governor had declined to grant an extension.
 
 Reports said that once results are declared, if Deshmukh does not quit on his own, Raj Bhavan will sack him for dereliction of duty at all levels. “The image of Mumbai University has been completely tarnished. Deshmukh should accept responsibility and quit,’’ the bureaucrat said.
 
 Meanwhile, Mumbai Congress president Sanjay Nirupam demanded immediate dismissal of Tawde, minister of state for education Ravindra Waikar and Deshmukh for the mess. He said if results were not declared before July 31, party activists will gherao Mumbai University.
 
