NEW DELHI: What appear to be the two most formidable teams of   2017, Kolkata Knight Riders and  , will face off in a mouth-watering game one of Saturday's double-header at Eden Gardens. 

 One of the most consistent teams in the history of the IPL, two-time winners   are at the top of the IPL 2017 points table followed by defending champions SRH, but both teams have four points. Losing the explosive match-winner of their season opener,  , to a shoulder injury has not proved a deterrent for KKR as yet as skipper   has batted superbly, and sending   to open alongside him in the last match proved a masterstroke, for the West Indian spinner clouted 37 off 18 balls to fetch his first Man-of-the-Match award since the 2014 IPL. And with   taking four wickets on Thursday, KKR's bowling has risen a level. 
 
 After two fine wins, SRH were jolted by Mumbai Indians in their previous game. They will need to avoid losing ground, as they did last season during the first half of the tournament, and for that they need the middle order to deliver. The defending champions erred by dropping  , after he scored consecutive fifties, to accommodate Mustafizur Rahman in the last game. Henriques was a critical factor in SRH's run to the title in 2016, and with excellent batting form in the first two games of 2017 it was a blunder to bench him, even given the promise that Mustafizur brought in. Gambling on a shaky middle order hurt SRH, and it is likely that they bring back Henriques. 
 
 
 Eden Gardens, Kolkata
 
 
 April 15, 2017
 
 
 16:00 IST
 
 
 A hot afternoon. High of 34 degrees. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 No foreseeable changes, though if Shakib Al Hasan could replace Colin de Grandhomme. 
 
 
 1 Gautam Gambhir (capt), 2   (wk), 3 Manish Pandey, 4 Yusuf Pathan, 5 Suryakumar Yadav, 6 Chris Woakes, 7 Colin de Grandhomme/Shakib Al Hasan, 8 Piyush Chawla, 9 Sunil Narine, 10 Umesh Yadav, 11 Trent Boult 
 
 
 
 
 If SRH do stick with Mustafizur, then Ben Cutting should make way for Henriques. 
 
 
 1 David Warner (capt), 2 Shikhar Dhawan, 3 Moises Henriques, 4 Yuvraj Singh, 5 Deepak Hooda, 6 Naman Ojha (wk), 7 Vijay Shankar, 8 Bipul Sharma, 9 Rashid Khan, 10 Ashish Nehra, 11 Mustafizur Rahman
 
 
 
 
 - Gambhir is the leading run-getter of IPL 2017 with 167 from three games. 
 
 - Andrew Tye owns the best bowling figures of the season, 5/17. 
 
 - SRH have the most bowlers with economy rates under 6.5 - Bipul Sharma (5.60), Bhuvneshwar Kumar (5.75) and Rashid Khan (6.16). 
 
 
  KKR 6-SRH 3
 
 
 
 
 "I really enjoyed it [Narine opening the innings]. It took a lot of pressure off my shoulders knowing that there was someone who was really going to go hard at each delivery, so it helps me in rotating the strike and keep batting as long as I can." - Gambhir 
 
 "You've got to stay upbeat and positive. We've got to go to Kolkata and have a positive attitude and start well." - David Warner
 
