NOIDA: With no commitment on deliveries of overdue apartments coming forth,   have organised a mass visit to Lucknow by end of April to attend the UP chief minister’s janta ka durbar or public meeting forum.

 Apartments in Noida Extension, booked in 2009, 2010 are now overdue by three to five years. The apartments in   or Greater Noida West have suffered delays during 2010-2011 which is considered a zero period in accounting terms of overdue penalties deliverable to buyers for late completion. The delay was caused by farmer protests as they went to court against the land acquisition bid. However, despite a clearance from the courts for resumption of construction, not much has moved in terms of completion over last four years. In Noida Extension, partial possession of apartments has been given by few builders. There are 58 projects underway in Noida Extension alone with over 3 lakh apartment units under construction.
 
 Gathering support among   to protest on micro-blogging site Twitter today, Noida Extension Flat Owners Welfare Association (Nefowa) members sought the attention of chief minister Yogi Adityanath with a hashtag campaign CMYogiGharDilao. The buyers told TOI, they would en masse go and visit the chief minister in a group to directly convey their concerns to him.
 
 “Our protests are persistent. We have knocked on all doors. Be it Noida Authority or the political leaders, we have approached all. We have also met the new MLA from Gautam Budh Nagar, Pankaj singh. Now we want an effective solution and a commitment that the houses will be delivered for possession at the earliest. If we do not get our promises delivered, we will keep escalating our protests,” Abhishek Kumar, president, Nefowa said.
 
 “Besides protests and a concrete plan of action to make the builders deliver on their commitments, we also seek the government’s attention towards insuring the buyer’s investments in these projects. Also, the buyers with the pressure of EMIs and rents are in the need of some financial reprieve,” Indrish Gupta, co-founder, Nefowa added.
 
