AHMEDABAD: The   Link Express for   and Ahmedabad (MEGA) has cleared its first hurdle in land acquisition by settling a dispute with residents of Jivraj Park, whose houses and shops are to be removed to pave way for the metro project.

 Occupants of two housing colonies – Vishwakarma and Mangaldeep – have agreed to vacate their land on MEGA’s proposal to pay around Rs 42 crore to owners of 11 bungalows, three flats and six shops. Three bungalow owners will get plots near Shreyas Crossing, which will be of the same size as that of the plots they are losing, said the residents’ advocate  . 
 
  
  This compromise was reached after 22 occupants of these two housing societies challenged MEGA’s land acquisition process in January 2016. They objected to the rail route finalized by the authorities. They also rejected a proposal of shifting to a plot near  .
 
 As the court proceedings moved ahead, MEGA proposed them compensation in cash or plots. Only three bungalow owners opted for plots, and other residents agreed to cash. MEGA paid 80% of the amount while entering into the agreement with the residents, and the remaining 20% was decided to be paid at the time of the award passed by the district collector.
 
 Last month, MEGA urged the high court to dispose the case and assured the court that the entire payment will be made within a month’s time. However, on Tuesday, the state government and MEGA sought six more months. The HC told the authorities that since it is a settlement with consent from the residents, there is no need to issue any notification.
 
 The high court directed MEGA to deposit the remaining 20% amount with the district collector within two days. All residents have been asked to remain present before the district collector on October 5, and the collector has been directed to announce final award of compensation on October 24. 
 
 The residents are elated following the settlement. Dr Bharat Merchant, who owns a bungalow over 250-metre plot in a society, has opted for a plot near Shreyas Crossing. He said, “It is not that we have been paid at market rates, but whatever amount is decided is not bad. I was getting Rs 2.30 crore for my property, so I opted for same size plot. There is multiple ownerships in many properties and hence they opted for the cash.”
 
 
