NEW DELHI: It does not take a gargantuan administrative system to enforce a waste-free community. Nirvana Country, an upscale residential colony in Gurgaon, has shown within a year of deciding to become a waste-free area that even 1,200 households can engage voluntarily in   segregation and minimise the load sent to the Bandhwari landfill. Despite the stumbling blocks — actually, learning from them — the community has achieved over 55% segregation.

 The waste generated by the Sector 50 colony comprises around 60% kitchen waste and 30% dry waste, the rest being unrecyclables such as sanitary napkins and diapers. The first step Nirvana Country took in dealing with this was to sensitise maids to the environmental burden of unsegregated waste, prudent since the upscale locality has a large force of maids working in the households, 3,000 according to an RWA member. “Many of the maids are from illiterate families, but with repeated messaging about   they can be made aware,” said  , one of those spearheading the movement.
 
 The message in the households was supplemented by the security guards, who were asked to remind the maids every day to segregate the waste. Maids who proved diligent were honoured at colony gatherings and occasions like Independence Day.
 
 The project was initiated in only two of the colony’s five blocks, but extended to the rest after achieving 85% segregation. The crucial executive part of the project was communication and prodding the community through digital platforms. The real work, including the distribution of red bins for rejected trash, green ones for organic waste and bags for dry material, began a year back, coinciding with the unveiling of the composter unit on August 15 last year.
 
 “The garbage gatherers, most of them illiterate, were asked to list the houses that did not segregate their waste,” Gulati revealed. “Dedicated volunteers calling themselves ‘segregation inspirers’ then worked to convince these families to fall in line.” These 15 inspirers, who are professionals, scientists, even yoga instructors, are on a WhatsApp group and monitor the waste collection and utilisation of compost created.
 
 Compostable waste is cleared of non-organic matters during a secondary segregation and fed into composters along with locally collected dry leaves and the activator. “The material takes three weeks to be composted. It is then cured in the open and sieved,” explained Nitai Mohanti, a housekeeping staff engaged by the RWA in the composting.
 
 The society now runs five 2,000-litre composting units, which churn out 1.5 tonne of good quality compost every month. “Much of this is used by the society for its 14 lawns, and the rest is sold at Rs10 per kg,” said PS Kohli, former secretary of the RWA. Plastic waste culled during segregation is given to the trash collectors, who sell it and retain the proceeds as an incentive.
 
 There were many problems the society encountered, of course, from the noise of the shredders to the composter developing cracks. But the community closed ranks to resolve them. Now, Nirvana Country segregates 55-65% of its waste. “In the second phase, we are going to ask garbage pickers to stop accepting the daily trash from households still resisting segregation,” said Gulati.
 
 The civic bodies too have installed composting units in colonies, but without popular involvement, they pretty much are gathering dust. As Nirvana Country has shown, engaging the community could be the right way forward.
 
 
