PUNE: From the Peshwas and the British to the   now, lanes of Wanowrie narrate rich tales of its varied association with military forces spanning over four centuries.

 Besides military medical facilities like Command Hospital,  , among others, the vast expanses of military housing and barracks for officers and soldiers too speak a volume about this enchanting association.
 
 A close study of Wanowrie’s history reveals that some of the first barracks for soldiers, including the British and the local, were built in the 1840s when the East India Company held sway. They were called ‘hutments’ then. The initial ones were built in Ghorpadi and were expanded into Wanowrie in that decade itself.
 
 Both the Ghorpadi and the Wanowrie barracks, though still present in some form, have been through major changes, especially after soldiers staying here, particularly the British, started complaining of cholera, malaria and other maladies. This followed an investigation into the declining health of the soldiers.
 
 “…A   set up to study the condition of the health of the   in 1863 made recommendations based on the new (if incorrect) theories (such as bad air). The barracks built later at Ghorpadi and Wanawadi (Wanowrie) reflected these recommendations. Amount of air space measured in cubic feet for each soldier was drastically raised. Since noxious vapours arising from the ground, believed to cause humidity and fever, had to be avoided, the barrack rooms were raised on very high plinths, and surrounded by deep verandahs to keep out the sun,” Samita Gupta and Jaymala Diddee wrote in ‘Pune: Queen of the Deccan’, one of the most authoritative accounts of the city’s history.
 
 That account further states that quite a lot of those barracks are now offices inside the boundaries of the Armed Forces Medical College.
 
 Even though the British wrested the city in 1817, it was a good 10 years before they could finally set up the Cantonment and fix its limits. This happened as they had to get enough land to accommodate all their military installations, not to mention soldiers. A lot of the land in Wanowrie, even though it was a camp for the Peshwa soldiers, was owned by feudal landlords, Gupta and Diddee wrote in the book.
 
 One of them was the Scindia/Shinde family. Mahadji Shinde has been called in various accounts in history as one of the people responsible for the “resurrection” of the Maratha’s power across India.
 
 He defeated the powerful Jats, revived the nominal authority of the Mughals and even negotiated peace with the hard-nosed East India Company governor-general, Warren Hastings. At the peak of his powers, as the commander of the Peshwa forces and the ruler of the Gwalior state of the Marathas, he died in 1794, while he was in his camp at Wanowrie.
 
 At that camp, Mahadji did set up a Shiva temple. But that complex, located just beyond the military limits, is also famous as the spot where Shinde was cremated.
 
 In 1965, his family trust, led by his descendant and would-be Union minister Madhavrao Scindia, ordered the construction of a memorial to Mahadji, around the spot where he was cremated. That structure, built in exquisite English and Rajput architectural styles of glass windows and sculpted arches, is known as the  .
 
 After years of neglect, with locals recollecting a dilapidated structure, recent upgrades have spruced up the buildings. Layers of moss and grime have been removed, coats of paint have been applied and the paved ground has been re-laid. The portraits of the Scindia family members over the years have also gone through an extensive restoration, the caretakers here said.
 
