Nagpur: India’s loss is the world’s gain. Keshav Kranthi, who was the director of the Central Institute for Cotton Research (CICR) will move to Washington to head the technical coordination section of the International Cotton Advisory Committee (ICAC) on March 21. Wednesday was the 54-year-old scientist’s last day at CICR. 

 The move is seen as a forced brain drain as the Indian government was not apparently keen to promote and retain Kranthi in any capacity. Many former agriculture officials and scientists, activists, farmers and NGOs have expressed their shock and disappointment.
 
 He still had three years remaining in his second five-year tenure as CICR director. In normal course, Kranthi’s next posting would have been as deputy director general of Indian Council of Agriculture Research (ICAR) or director of Indian Agriculture Research Institute (IARI). 
 
 But well-placed sources told TOI that the ministry did not seem keen to hand him bigger responsibilities. When the offer from ICAC, Kranthi took up the post. In his new role, Kranthi will be on the inter-governmental panel which acts as an advisory board to cotton-growing countries.
 
 Maharashtra’s former agriculture secretary Nanasaheb Patil told TOI that Kranthi was a very “talented scientist” and the “central government should have tried to retain him not just for cotton but for progress of science in the country”. 
 
 Former chairman of the National Agricultural Scientists Recruitment Board (ASRB) CD Mayee said that Kranthi deserved to be promoted and given more responsibilities. “We could have used his vision of science beyond cotton. I definitely see it as a brain drain. He had raised the image of a public sector research institute in the country to a great extent. Kranthi had shown that Bt can be introduced in indigenous varieties of cotton that can be grown in dry land areas of Vidarbha and other places too,” he said.
 
 Terming Kranthi’s departure as a big setback, agriculture dean of Wardha Shiksha Mandal Atul Sharma, said, “Though everyone has a right to a better job, Kranthi’s departure is a big loss to India. He was the only director of CICR till now who had travelled pan India during the bollworm attack, met farmers and guided them. Kranthi gave a new dimension to science by doing this work even though it was not necessary for him or the institute to do so,” said Sharma.
 
 Shridhar Thakre, director Mahaorange (NGO), said that both state and central government could have retained him by giving him a new platform. “His contribution to cotton is immense. There should be no limits for a good scientist in the country. By denying him opportunities here, India has done a big harm to itself,” he said.
 
 According to agriculture activist Vijay Jawandhiya, the seed industry lobby was against Kranthi and may have been responsible for his departure from CICR. “He was promoting Bt in indigenous varieties which allows farmers to produce their own seeds. The lobby did not want this as it brings down their sales,” he said. 
 
 Kranthi was also a true friend of the farmers. “No agriculture department official comes to our fields during a crisis. But Kranthi was always there on just a phone call,” said Chintaman Kakpure of Yavatmal. “Kranthi is the only scientist who comes down to our levels to solve problems,” said Ratnakar Awchat of Wardha who credits the scientist for bringing down the pesticide sprays from 13-15 to just 3-4.
 
 
