CHANDIGARH: With the   finally putting its stamp on party’s Punjab unit chief Sunil Jakhar’s name for Gurdaspur   by-election, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) plans to target the former for fielding a leader who is an “outsider”. AAP’s leadership from Delhi, too, had faced similar barbs in the last assembly elections.

 Sukhpal Singh Khaira of the AAP said, “Congress was expected to field a parachute candidate and they have done that. Jakhar is an outsider to   and will never stay there as was the case with Amarinder Singh in Amritsar. His candidature is the result of internal politics within the party as Amarinder wanted to checkmate Bajwa. On the other hand, AAP candidate is a local from Pathankot”.
 
 After chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, a party heavyweight from Malwa region who had won the 2014 Lok Sabha election in Majha (Amritsar), Jakhar hopes to achieve the same feat. Jakhar has represented Abohar in the state assembly in the past and has now been entrusted with the task of shifting base to Majha region.
 
 While the AAP plans to take a high moral ground over Congress for having fielded local candidate Maj Gen Suresh Khajuria (retd), Jakhar has the support of seven Congress legislators from Gurdaspur, who had been pushing his name. This is despite the Bajwa family, including Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa, his wife Charanjit Kaur (former MLA from Qadian) and brother Fatehjung Bajwa (Qadian MLA), having considerable clout in Gurdaspur area.
 
 On Wednesday after Jakhar’s name was announced, many party leaders, including MLA Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, MLA Harpartap Singh Ajnala, Amritsar DCC president and Congress spokesman Bhagwantpal Singh Sachar and Gurpartap Singh Mann, met him and expressed their support.
 
 “The Congress will wrest back Gurdaspur seat from the   to prove that the NDA government has lost popularity because of demonetization and implementation of GST,” Randhawa said.
 
 On the other hand, the opposition parties claim that the Congress government in Punjab has little to list as its achievement. “Most of the promises are still on paper and farmers have still not got debt waiver and industrialists have not got power at Rs 5 per unit,” said  , a local AAP leader.
 
 AAP nominee to file papers today
 
 An AAP spokesperson said that party’s nominee Maj Gen Suresh Khajuria (retd) will file his nomination papers on Thursday. Khajuria’s name was officially announced by the party on Sunday in Jalandhar.
 
