Amid the political hullabaloo and frosty ties with allies,   president   is overseeing the construction of his new house. This one, located right across the famous   in Bandra East’s Kalanagar area, is a six-storey structure which will have two triplex apartments. According to the real estate sources, the Thackerays acquired the plot for the building in October 2016.

 As per the construction plan, a copy of which is with Mumbai Mirror, the building will also have basement, stilt and six upper floors. The entire structure is spread over nearly 10,000 sq ft, and in each of the triplex flats, the living room has been designed to have the height of two floors. Every flat has five bedrooms and a study, and the building is being designed by noted architecture firm Talati and Panthaky.
 
 The land parcel where the building is coming up was earlier the address of artist Kattingeri Krishna Hebbar.
 
 After Hebbar’s death in 1996, the property was owned by his wife Susheela, and was bequeathed to her children Rekha Rao, Rajani Prasanna, and Ranna Hebbar, after Susheela’s death in May 2006. Sometime in 2007, the Hebbar siblings entered into a development agreement with Planatium Infrastructure Pvt Ltd, wherein they sold their stakes for Rs 3.5 crore.
 
 The Malad-based company, according to documents available with Mumbai Mirror, is controlled by Rajbhushan Dixit and Jagbhushan Dixit. Initially, the firm had sought permission for constructing an eight-storey building with eight flats.
 
 A couple of years ago, Planatium pulled down the two-storey Hebbar family bungalow for their project, and in January 2016, sought permission from the suburban collector to transfer the plot, which was leased by the state to Kalanagar Co-operative Housing Society Ltd in 1960.
 
 In April last year, the collector gave the nod to Planatium to transfer the plot subject to the condition that 50% of the amount received would be deposited with the state government. Next, the Thackerays sought ano-objection certificate from Kalanagar CHS to acquire and redevelop the plot.
 
 On September 24, 2016 the society gave an NOC for the transfer and redevelopment of the plot and less than a month later, the Thackerays took over the property for Rs 11.60 crore.
 
 At the time of signing the deal, the Thackerays paid Rs 5.8 crore to Planatium, and the remaining Rs 5.8 crore are to be paid to the suburban collector’s office. The Thackerays also paid the stamp duty of Rs 58 lakh to the Registrar of Stamps at the time of registering the deal. The construction plan was approved by the BMC on October 17, 2016, and the Thackerays formally signed the deal the next day.
 
 Avisit to the construction site revealed that work was on in full swing. As per the construction plan, the property owners can directly access the Bandra-Kurla Complex Road instead of relying on the narrow internal   road, till the construction is under way.
 
 Despite repeated attempts, Uddhav and Rashmi Thackeray were unavailable for comment.
 
 Mirror also contacted Uddhav’s personal assistant Milind Narvekar, but there was no response from the Thackerays till the time of going to press.
 
 
 
 
