After a convincing win in the   elections, now   will be contesting the Producers’ Council elections, coming up on April 2, for the president’s post. At this juncture, in a quick chat with us, he opens up about his chances of winning, his plans for the council, and how he handles the accusations by his opponents, and his plan to organise a music show for  .

 For Vishal, this election is serious business, and he avers that if he wins, he will deliver the promises he made within the time frame he’d said he would. He says, “I have kept my resignation, signed by all the members of team, ready. If I win the election and if I am not able to implement what I have promised within a year, I will resign in April 2018. This is how we are and this is how we have planned to execute our duties. Distributing a piece of land to the producers and increasing their pension are some of the things we have mentioned in the election manifesto. I will definitely step down if I fail to do what I have committed to in my election campaign.
 
 But his opponents haven’t been silent all this while...   called Vishal selfish, Thanu accused him of not delivering hits, and others have said more such uncharitable things. 
 
 Ask him, and he says, “People accused me when I stood in the Nadigar Sangam elections. That time also I kept quiet. I answered to all those accusations via winning the election. Likewise to these allegations also, I will answer via the election result. I’m very focused on my duties and I just don’t care about who says what.”
 
 Ask him about his plans for the council if he wins, he says, “I would like to develop our council in the digital platform. It takes more than a month for a producer to register a title. But at this time of technology boom, it should hardly take a minute to finish that job. Similar to this, we are planning to make things organised. Presently, the producers’ council is disorganised and I would like to change it. I will work towards getting revenue for the producers from the channels. Also, on March 24, 12 films are getting released. None of the producers will be benefited by this kind of crammed release. We need to plan each and every release so that it will be lucrative to the person who invests a whopping sum.”
 
 Is his acting taking a backseat because of these additional responsibilities? He says, “This job is not a 24-hour one. With the kind of networking we have, work can be accomplished within an hour’s time. People think that I invest all my time into this. But I have been multitasking and regularly been shooting for my films, too. Both the films that I am presently shooting for — Thupparivaalan and Irumbu Thirai, — are on the right track.”
 
 
 In a press meet, Vishal had said that he and his team will organise a grand music show for Ilaiyaraaja. “Yes, whether I win or not, this music show will definitely happen. We have already initiated talks with Raaja sir.   has met him and spoken about this show, and the maestro has apparently expressed interest in being part of it. We will invite all the singers in the industry, including SPB sir, for the show,” says Vishal.
 
 
