MEERUT: Bahujan   ( ) has landed itself in a soup after a video of its candidate from Meerut city, allegedly beating and abusing a woman mercilessly in public, has gone viral. Though it is still not clear when this video was shot, the clip has been doing the rounds on social media since Thursday and has left the party in knots just two days before elections.
 
  The video, which has been shot from a distance, shows   mercilessly beating and pushing the woman before both of them hit a heap of sand and fall to the ground. The impact is such that woman falls against an e-rickshaw parked near to where they both topple.
  
  The BSP candidate did not deny the argument with the woman, but said there was no physical assault. Speaking to TOI, Jolly said the video was doctored.
  
  “I had a scuffle with the woman many years ago over the construction of a wall, but we did not engage in any physical assault. The video has been doctored and has been planned by the opposition. There has been no FIR against me, which clearly means that the video is fake,” said Jolly.
  
  No action has been taken by the police in the matter and it is yet to be seen how this video will impact the party’s prospects in the upcoming elections. A source at media certification and monitoring committee (MCMC) of the   at the district level said that the video was not related to the polls. “We cannot take any action in this matter because it is not related to any sort of election campaigning,” said the source.
  
  Many political leaders were, however, quick to take jibes at the BSP leadership. “It is said that a leader from BSP, which is headed by a woman, was captured on camera thrashing another woman. This should be investigated thoroughly. It’s a serious matter, more so because Pankaj Jolly is contesting for the assembly elections,” said Rafiq Ansari, SP candidate from Meerut (city).
  
  Laxmikant Bajpayee, BJP candidate from Meerut (city), said, “I don’t want to comment on the contents of the video because I don’t know how old it is. But the video surfacing just two days before the polls is not a good sign.”
