THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The   has taken an in-principle decision to file a   against the   order that on Tuesday extended by two weeks the last date for students to submit applications for admission to higher secondary courses in schools that follow  

 The high court, while considering a petition filed by the representatives of a couple of CBSE affiliated schools in Kozhikode district, has extended the last date for filing applications for admission to June 5. As per the original schedule by the higher secondary directorate, applications for admission can be submitted only up to May 22.
 
 According to sources, the state education department has decided to make an attempt to convince the high court regarding the intention behind the time frame announced by the higher secondary directorate for admission to Plus One courses this year.
 
 “Our intention was very clear. Last year we had waited for the CBSE results and the impact was that the Plus One students lost almost a month’s working days during the previous academic year. We are not against CBSE students getting admission to schools that follow state syllabus. The percentage of CBSE students that migrate to the schools following state syllabus is mere 10% or so. Moreover, the government had, well in advance, informed the CBSE about the admission schedule being followed by the state. Despite this, the CBSE authorities have chosen to delay the Class X results of students in Kerala, only to ensure CBSE results of all regions are announced at one go,” highly placed sources in the state government said.
 
 “Earlier, on a similar occasion, the government had agreed to keep aside 10% of seats for CBSE students and the court had agreed to the same. In present circumstances, even such a step would not be necessary. If the CBSE results are announced in two days as expected, the students would naturally become eligible for securing seats in second or third allotments. Our efforts would be to convince the court about the core objective behind the preparation of the admission schedule and if the court still insists to extend the admission schedule, we would comply with the same,” officials said.
 
 As per the SSLC result, the total number of candidates who have been declared eligible for higher studies is 4,37,156. The number of higher secondary seats available is 4,22,910 and that of vocational higher secondary is 27,500. Thus the total number of seats available is 4,50,410. 
 
 In 2016, the number of applicants from the CBSE stream was 49,779 only whereas over 5.3 lakh candidates from the state syllabus stream applied for  . Of the 2.87 lakh candidates who got admission in merit quota seats, 18,760 were from CBSE stream. 
 
