T he coming months are going to be exciting for the bilbliophiles in the city as a host of programmes are lined up as part of the Lucknow Literature Festival 2017. The festival, with a theme of poetry this year, will be held in the city from November 17-19 with a few events being held ahead of it. 
"This year the festival will lay emphasis on classic and contemporary poetry," says Kanak Rekha Chauhan, founder-director of the festival, adding, "Of all the literary expressions, poetry remains the most soothing form that heals every soul it touches."
 The festival events will begin post Diwali with prominent writer-politician   talking about famous and quirky author   and his writings at an event lined up for October 25. For film buffs, actor and Lucknowite Ali Fazal will be in town to talk about his latest film 'Victoria and Abdul'. "The date of this event has yet to be finalised after we get a confirmation from Ali who is in the US for his film’s release till September 22," informs Chauhan. 
 But as every year, this time too the festival will not just be confined to literature. "We are also having a youth festival so that the youngsters from Lucknow and outside can be part of it," says Chauhan, adding, "A theatre and short film festival will also be held ahead of the lit fest from November 10-12. Seeing how everyone appreciates music, we will be having a programme titled Morning Raga featuring folk songs and bhajans. We still have to decide the date of this event which will be held at the Lohia Park amphitheatre and there will also be a qawwali programme at the Clock Tower in old Lucknow on one of the evenings." 
 
  
  Shashi Tharoor and Aishwarya Rajinikanth Dhanus (BCCL) 
 
 With a brief break in between, the festival will again resume on an exciting note with the members of the Indian Women’s Cricket team inaugurating it on November 17. The three-day event will then have discussions on ghazals, humour, nationalism and feminism with people like  , Imitiaz Ali  , Ram Madhav, Ashok Chakradhar participating in it. Actor   will be speaking about literature and theatre while Azmi will be part of discussions involving feminism along with  . Filmmaker   will talk about what he portrays best in his film – Junoon-e-ishq. Lyricist Kausar Munir of 'Tu Jo Mila' and 'Palat-Tera Hero Idhar Hai' fame and   of 'Bande Me Tha Dum from Lage Raho Munna Bhai' and 'Behhti Hawa Sa Tha Woh' fame will talk about poetry in Hindi films. Irshad Kamil, Upinder Singh, Atul Tiwari, are also some of the people who will be at the festival this year too. Discussions involving politician and politics can hardly be ignored in UP, so this topic too will be discussed at length at the fest organised every year by Lucknow Expressions, which will also have a rock band performance among other events lined up. 
 
 
 
