Indore: The so called   at Vijay Nagar have turned into a pick-&-drop point for buses being operated under Atal Indore City Transport Services Ltd (AICTSL) operating on Ujjain route.

 One can easily see a display board explaining about the route. This city’s pilot bicycle sharing initiative has been prematurely discontinued and these stations are now left with no use.
 
 Moreover, the space designated for parking of bicycles has also turned into a two-wheeler parking zone as there are no bicycles available for the designated cycle stand since around a year after the time when the project was launched.
 
 Officials requesting anonymity said that though it’s not official, due to lack of cycles it might be happening. “It’s very strange that the location has turned into a pick up and dropping point for people,” they said.
 
 I-Bike company representative Amitabh Vajpeyee refused to comment on why the firm has not been able to provide cycles at the designated kiosks as per its agreement with AICTSL. He said the matter related to illegal use of parking by buses has been brought into notice of the government.
 
 Meanwhile, AICTSL’s chief executive officer Sandeep Soni was not available for comment.
 
 The AICTSL had launched this initiative with an aim to use the public bicycle system to provide last mile connectivity to commuters and reduce congestion from roads and pollution from the city, the system has failed to attract users. But after the launch in the year 2015, AICTSL could gather only few members for i-bike, apparently due to high rates and non-availability of dedicated cycle track.
 
 Santosh Singh, a college student, said, “I had been able to obtain the facility of i-Bike only a few times when it was launched, after that I can just see people forming the space as their personal bike-stand. Moreover, illegal parking by buses also covers the stand.” Such project like i-Bike should not go in vain, he complained.
 
 Nitesh Mishra another student said that after the facility was launched I was excited to commute via i-Bike, but authorities have not been able to sort out issues related with encroachment on cycle tracks, rent of cycles and others.
 
 
