BHOPAL: Shunning the customary gown and cap, graduates at the convocation ceremony of Atal Bihari Vajpayee Hindi University will be seen in traditional attire on April 18. The university has already prescribed a dress-code for the students.

 The executive council of the university approved a dress code for the maiden convocation ceremony. Students will be asked to deposit a non-refundable fee of Rs 300.
 
 Students who will not follow the dress code will not be awarded degree during the convocation, said university authorities. Students of 2014-15 and 2015-16 academic session will receive their degrees. Besides, students who completed their course since 2013 will also be awarded degrees at the function.
 
 In a circular uploaded on the official portal of the university, registrar, Sanjay Tiwari has given the information about the dress code. Boys will have to wear kurta, payajama or dhoti. Students are given a colour combination also which they have to choose at the convocation. It will be white kurta, chudidaar white colour payjama or white colour dhoti for boys. They will have to wear a yellow coloured safa (turban).
 
 There will be a saffron coloured logo of the Hindi university on the kurta.
 
 For girls, saree will be the dress code. Colour of the saree will be cream with red border while blouse will be red. Like boys, girls will have to use the logo of Hindi university on the saree, besides wearing a yellow coloured turban. 
 
 The objective behind the traditional dress code is to discard the westernized way and adopt Indian traditional attire that will also attract youth towards the roots of the country. 
 
 On the condition of anonymity, a senior officer of the university said the decision was made after talking with the students. Last date for registration to the convocation will be April 5. 
 
 Barkatullah University has been trying for past two years to implement the traditional attire as the dress code for the students but it is yet to take a final call. Maulana Azad National Institute of Technology (MANIT) had started Gandhi cap and traditional attire for convocation in 2012 which was later dropped citing that the students were not accepting it. 
 
