MUMBAI: A video of  , who is lodged in Byculla Jail in a  , abusing an on-duty cop at the jail's main gate has gone viral, inviting an inquiry.

 The incident occurred around 10.45am, Thursday , when Kadam was being escorted out of the jail for a medical check-up at  . “Once outside the gate, assistant police inspector Manoj Pawar asked him to stand on the side, which might have angered Kadam (once an NCP MLA from Solapur),“ said asource. In the video, Kadam is seen in a threatening posture abusing Pawar. Kadam was arrested in August 2015 for his suspected role in a scam involving the Lokshahir Annabhau Sathe Development Corporation (LASDC), of which he was chairman.
 
 Joint police commissioner (law and order) Deven Bharti told TOI, “We have asked Akhilesh Singh (DCP zone-III) to inquire into the matter. We will take action as per the findings of the probe report.“ Pawar approached the Nagapda police station on Thursday and told them about the incident. The police noted down the matter in a diary , but no FIR or NC was registered.
 
 At the time of the incident, Kadam and a few cops were waiting for a police van when Kadam started arguing with Pawar. A constable recorded it on his cellphone. In the video, Kadam can be seen taunting Pawar, saying he was behaving like a woman. He went on to tell Pawar that he was behaving like a eunuch.Kadam is also heard asking someone to call up additional police commissioner (Aswathi) Dorje and complain that Pawar demanded Rs 25,000 from him.
 
 Abusing Pawar, Kadam told him to open the jail gate again so that he could go in as he wasn't in the mood to go to the hospital. While Pawar asked some cops to take Kadam inside, nobody moved. “I will bring a privilege motion against you (translation from Marathi),“ Kadam is heard threatening Pawar.
 
 In February last year, a senior medi cal officer attending to undertrials at Arthur Road jail filed a complaint against Kadam (who was then at that jail), alleging that he had abused and threatened him. Based on Dr Rahul Ghule's complaint, the N M Joshi Marg police registered an offence under the IPC's sections 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of duty), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of peace), and 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation).
 
