PATNA: The much-awaited construction of   on the main campus of   (NU) will commence with a ground-breaking ceremony scheduled to be held on March 1. NU chancellor   will preside over the function.

 The NU’s non-residential buildings will comprise two schools, administrative block, communication centre, campus amenities like international centre, amphitheatre, arcade, dining hall, faculty club, school, medical centre and infirmary, sports centre, commercial market, bank and post office, among others. All such buildings are scheduled to be made ready in 36 months, i.e. by February, 2020.
 
 The non-residential buildings on its main campus at Rajgir, around 110km southeast from Patna, constitute a major part of the university’s phase-I construction programme. NU awarded the construction and other allied works to M/s NCC Limited, Hyderabad on January 27.
 
 Bhatkar, in an interview with TOI on January 28 after his appointment as the NU chancellor said the main campus would be made ready in five years. Bhatkar was appointed NU chancellor with effect from January 25.
 
 The newly constituted NU governing board in its first meeting on February 10 also stressed the need to expedite construction works. “It was observed in the last meeting that the pace of construction of the main campus must be expedited. This would enable the university in accommodating more students and faculty members,” said a NU governing board member preferring anonymity.
 
 The university runs its classes on a makeshift campus at Rajgir. The orientation programme for the first batch of NU students was held on August 29, 2014. 
 
 Non-residential buildings apart, bidding process is also under way for other parts of the NU campus as well, including the construction of the residential buildings and hostels. The work is expected to be awarded by May-end.
 
  had sanctioned Rs2,727.1 crore to the university for the construction of its campus during its establishment phase from 2010-11 to 2021-22. The foundation stone for the campus was laid by President   on August 27 last year. 
 
