Kochi-based stand-up comedian   was on stage, all set to crack up his audience. 

 He starts off saying, “So, I went shopping with my girlfriend for her clothes...” Little did Vinay know that someone in the audience would get immediately offended by that line. “How could you stereotype women like that?” came the question from one among the crowd.
 
 Talking about the instance, Vinay says, “Well, that’s nothing. While I was performing in a college in Kerala recently, someone said, ‘You’re being politically incorrect!’ I just brushed it off saying, ‘I know, and I make a living out of it.’ When I made fun of the government in a video around the time of the first Kiss of Love movement in Kochi, I used to get death threats. Now I feel sad that no one is threatening my life.”
 
 Times are such that you have to tiptoe around your words while cracking a joke or even when you are talking casually, for the fear of offending someone. No, it’s not the intentionally racist, sexist or homophobic jokes that are being referred to here, but things as harmless as an inadvertent slip of tongue, a random comment or even a movie dialogue! On  , we observe why humour has become so fraught; how comedians are too careful now and what it takes to lighten up! 
 
 
 
 Many say that technology played a huge part on why people can’t take a joke. Drishyam fame actor Kalabhavan Shajon says, “In the past, there was a culture of people gathering in local clubs or around a neighbourhood tree, engaging in some chit chat, pulling each other’s leg. Now, communication has become faceless and is often restricted to phone screens. This has, somehow, also made us narrow minded and so, you have to think twice before saying something even to a friend.”
 
 Psychologist Dr C J John is of the opinion that the satirical way of criticising and putting a point across that once thrived in our society, isn’t tolerated for many reasons. “We are becoming increasingly parochial because the development of personalities in our society is not giving much way for open-mindedness, even at home. We are more competitive than being helpful or empathetic, and this stops us from enjoying or tolerating even a joke,” he explains.
 
 The influence of social media is another most-quoted reason. Devika B, a teacher, says, “There was a time when many things would happen around you that you won’t really agree with, but you ignore it as there wasn’t anyone listening to you anyway. However, now, people are so used to reacting to things they don’t agree with on social media. And, you get your share of supporters and detractors too. The more you feel your whining is given attention to, the more you want to scream out.”
 
 She is also of the opinion that publicising something as ‘social-media outrage’ and giving undue importance to trolling are also other factors. “The slightest insult, which can be easily ignored, gets blown out of proportion when you make it news. People like Kamal R Khan even bank on this wisely, to build publicity. You cry for apologies, experts are beckoned in to give their views on the same, and what not,” she says.
 
 
 
 Comedians say that unlike in the past, in Kerala too, people are increasingly becoming intolerant and communal, even when it comes to jokes. Actor-comedian Tini Tom says, “When we go to perform in certain places, we ensure that we check whether there are any taboo topics in the area that shouldn’t be ventured into. A lot of it is related to religion and politics, and sadly, it’s true even about the youth. This isn’t a good development at all.”
 
 Vinay says that in corporate shows and programmes for older audiences, sex, religion and politics are generally the taboo topics. “Sex jokes are often off limits as people can judge you to be crass. However, it’s no fixed rule. You can make jokes as long as you are not very direct with them and even older crowd here enjoys such subtle jokes.” Religion isn’t touched as people can even go ahead and file a case against you, and you won’t get support from any quarters, opine comedians. “Politics is touchy now as we usually have people who either adamantly support or oppose those in power and either side would be waiting to take you to task,” Vinay adds.
 
 
 
 Kochi is a place that appreciates good humour whole-heartedly, and also reacts strongly to poor jokes, say comedians. Shajon says, “This is one of the reasons why many comedy troupes and quality humour artistes have hailed from Kochi. The audience here know how you should take a joke as a joke, and leave it at that.”
 
 Comedian   says, “When performers from outside Kerala ask me what all should they steer clear of while performing in Kochi, I say this is like Switzerland in terms of topics. From film stars to politicians, we can touch anyone here, as long as the joke is good. That is quite an advantage, as compared to other places in the State.”
 
 
 
 Things would change if people decide to not overthink, try to take jokes lightly and not give them undue importance, comedians say. Shajon says, “It’s time we stopped attaching unnecessary meanings and explanations to humour or even comedy movie scenes or dialogues. And each of us should try doing it consciously. When we start appreciating good comedy and ignoring quality-less stuff rather than getting all enraged about it, there would even be a conscious attempt to create fresh and brilliant humour.” George though suggests a cheekier method. “Maybe we should also try more jokes when people continue to get offended. Once they get used to more of comedy coming their way, probably people would learn to handle them,” he says.
 
