DEHRADUN:  , perhaps the only chief minister in the country to have faced a coup, rebellion from party leaders and breach of trust in a tenure of barely three years, is ready to pit his might against leaders of both BJP and his own. The senior leader has no qualms about accepting that as the CM of the hill state he did not have it easy.
 
  “It has been a rough political period. I had to make several compromises because of a certain section of people within the party who were more interested in their welfare than that of the state,” Rawat told TOI on Tuesday.
  
  The trials and tribulations for Rawat have been one continuous stream. Within two months of him becoming CM,   - who was the then Congress MP from Pauri - quit to join the BJP. Thereafter, his wife Amrita Rawat was shown the door from the state cabinet. Since then, Rawat has been sitting on a “throne of thorns”, as one senior leader put it. The exodus of 10 MLAs who protested against the CM's ‘autocratic’ style of functioning in March last year continued with senior minister Yashpal Arya switching sides to BJP, citing similar grievances on Monday.
  
  On numerous occasions, Rawat faced stiff resistance from trusted aides, including state Congress chief Kishore Upadhyay and Pithoragarh MLA Mayukh Mahar. While Upadhyay and Rawat differed on several issues ranging from those related to ally   (PDF) to nominees for Rajya Sabha seat, Mahar complained that CM Rawat had not fulfilled promises made to the people of his constituency. Bhim Lal Arya, considered to be Rawat’s blue-eyed boy who left the BJP to join the Congress, also raised his voice against the CM for ignoring his former constituency, Ghansali.
  
  More trouble may be in store for the chief minister as a few other party leaders are also believed to be on the lookout to join the BJP. The CM said that those who revolted against him and left the party did so because they wanted ticket for kin.
  
  Rawat said that Saket, son of former CM Vijay Bahuguna, was given ticket for   twice. “If he (Bahuguna) failed to deliver or his son could not win elections, how is the party to be blamed? Now he has gone and sided with the BJP, which had coined the slogan ‘Jab se aaya Bahuguna, brasthachar hua sau guna’ (since Bahuguna has arrived, corruption has gone up 100 times),” said Rawat.
  
  The CM also attacked state cabinet minister Yashpal Arya for joining the BJP barely a month ahead of assembly elections. He added that there was “no end to the desires” of Harak Singh Rawat, who enjoyed the position of a minister and the leader of opposition.
  
  “Those who say that they quit because I was not working for development or the people, I can prove them wrong with facts and figures. We are among the top three states which provide sufficient power supply. Our power tariff is one of the lowest.”
  
  He also added that the 2017 elections would be a direct fight between a ‘true Uttarakhandi’, referring to himself, and the party (BJP) which tried to bring down a democratically-elected government
  
  “This is a fight between Uttarakhandi tradition and traitors, people have to decide,” he said.
