NASHIK: A group of youths engaged in social work in the city has taken the political plunge and fielded 32   for the coming civic polls. 

 The candidates fielded by the Nashik Mahanagar Yuva Aghadi (NMYA) are, however, struggling to get a common election symbol. Since the outfit is not a registered political party, every nomination is being considered as an independent candidate and being allotted separate symbols. 
 
 “We have faced several issues, but the most important one has been regarding the election symbol. As we are not a political party, we can’t demand one particular symbol for all of us. Luckily, 11 of us have received ‘whistle’ as symbol. But, others have received cricket bat, LPG cylinders as symbols,” said Prakash Chavan, who is contesting from prabhag number 28. 
 
 While the youths are positive about dealing with the election symbol issue, they are also facing unexpected political developments in many wards. Earlier, the   had declared that they would contest polls from 70 seats, but many political parties lured their candidates and gave them A and B forms. 
 
 “Most of our contestants are under 35 years of age, well-educated and committed towards social work. After going through their profiles, some political parties offered them nominations. They accepted the party candidature. However, they have promised to remain committed to the basic principles of NYMA,” said Chavan. 
 
 Earlier, the outfit had said that none of their candidates would have any record, nor would they hail from any political background. No political family background, clean character and urge to work for change are the three basic criteria for inducting new members. Candidates with higher education and aged under 35 would be preferred. 
 
 Educated youth, many of whom have quit their jobs, had formed the apolitical outfit. College students and professionals from different fields keen on shaping the city’s future in a more planned and methodical manner decided to contest the polls. 
 
 “We are neither a political party nor a pressure group, but a union of youths who want to do something substantial for the development of Nashik. We want good people to contest elections. Contesting as independents or under some party banner is not an issue for us,” said NYMA founder and engineering student Samadhan Bharatiya.
 
 
