PUDUCHERRY: The centralised admission committee (Centac) will hold a common counselling on May 4 and 5 to fill up 50% of   seats allocated to the government in private medical colleges and deemed universities and seats under   quota in lone government medical college. 

 Health and family welfare minister   told reporters on Wednesday that Puducherry government will implement the Union health ministry's direction to fill up 50% of the postgraduate medical and dental seats in private medical colleges and deemed universities under the state quota.
 
 Rao said the   and deemed universities have not come forward to surrender 50% of seats to the government. He said the Puducherry government sent a complaint to the Union health ministry seeking action against the private colleges for not surrendering 50% of seats. He said the government has requested the fee committee chairman to fix the fee for the postgraduate medical and dental courses from the academic year 2017-18. 
 
 "We hope the committee chairman announces the fee structure by tomorrow (May 4). If the committee does not fix the fees before the counselling ends, the selected students can pay a minimum fees, ranging from 50,000 to 1 lakh and join the course," he said.
 
 He said Centac has made preliminary arrangements to hold the common counselling and has verified the original certificates of candidates, who applied for admission in government medical and   and candidates, and those who applied under government quota in private medical and dental colleges and deemed universities on April 29 and 30. 
 
 The committee earlier released the list of candidates, who applied for postgraduate medical and dental courses under government quota seats on April 26. The government issued circulars to the private colleges and deemed universities to hold common counseling to full up postgraduate medical and dental seats under   with students, who cleared National eligibility cum entrance test (Neet), for the academic year 2017-18.
 
 Rao said the government issued notices on March 21 to all private medical and dental colleges and deemed universities to submit the seat matrix of the available postgraduate seats in their colleges on or before March 27. 
 
