KOCHI: At a time when the Union government is promoting affordable  , city-based builders are hesitant to undertake such projects. 

 Affordable housing refers to housing units that are affordable by that section of society whose income is below the median household income.
 
 Exorbitant land price coupled with high material and labour cost makes it nearly impossible to bring down the cost of housing. Though affordable housing has huge demand these factors have contributed in creating a supply gap.
 
 “Unless land price is moderated and land falling in ‘developable’ category is made available it will be difficult to go ahead with such housing projects,” says   of Abad Builders. 
 
 Moreover, there should be decent access and basic infrastructure facilities to support the housing projects.
 
 Builders also say that as people have high expectations about their homes and aware of quality standards, it is not easy to offer housing projects at lower rates. When it comes to affordable homes, it will be a “no-frill project”.
 
 It is pointed out that while it is possible for a middle-class family with a buying capacity of about Rs 50 lakh to purchase a house or flat in Kakkanad, it is nearly impossible for them to get the same at Tripunithura and Maradu, where the cost is on the higher end.
 
 M R Rajeev, manager with the  , said: “In Kakkanad, there are people who have large land holdings and are willing to sell it. Builders who bought land when it was cheap and completed construction can provide houses or flats at affordable rates. Whereas in places like Tripunithura and Maradu there are very few people who hold large pieces of land. The rich and affluent who have large holdings will not put it for sale. It will naturally keep the land price at the higher side,” Rajeev said. 
 
 However, the land value has gone up in Kakkanad with the coming up of Infopark,   and SmartCity.
 
 With the state government imposing severe restrictions on using agriculture land for construction purpose as well as reclamation of wetland and water bodies it has become difficult to get land which is suitable for realty development in Kochi and its neighbourhood.
 
 There are many builders who have bought large patches for agriculture land for undertaking housing projects. As stringent rules are put in place they will not be able to go ahead. Banks will not provide loans. If the   Regulation Act is firmly implemented it will weed out small-scale builders,” said a senior bank official adding that it would result in a situation where there are only large-scale builders who can buy land at higher prices and undertake construction works following stringent norms.
 
 All these factors could push home buyers further into the outskirts. 
 
 According to Rajeev, there would be more demand for projects coming up in regions around Angamaly and Aluva. 
 
 “The Kochi Metro will be a deciding factor as it provides easy accessibility to the city,” he said. 
 
