AHMEDABAD: A middle-aged couple sleeping on the footpath outside   (GHB) apartments at Shastrinagar, Naranpura was run over by a car early on Saturday morning. Seven others, all members of the extended family, sleeping on the pavement were injured. The driver was apprehended at the crash site and charged with causing death by negligence.

 The couple killed in the accident -Bhagabhai Marwadi (40) and his wife Lakshmi (35) -sold earthenware and balloons for a living and is survived by two daughters.
 
 The incident led to protests at the spot in the afternoon, as the victims' relatives demanded justice from the authorities. Bodies were cremated after intervention by civic authorities.   inspector CL Solanki said that Nirav Shah, 31, the accused in the case, mentioned fatigue as the reason for the accident.“He had called police and ambulance on the spot,” he said.
 
 Police said Valabhai Parmar (Marwadi), 55, a resident of the the shanties outside GHB, registered a complaint for the death of his younger brother and his wife. Extended Marwadi family including the two brothers, their sister Jamna and their families lived on the footpath.
 
 “According to Parmar's statement, they went to sleep around 11pm on Friday. While some slept inside the shanties, most were sleeping on the footpath. Around 12.45am on Saturday , the car, coming from the direction of Pallav Crossroads, veered onto the footpath," said an investigator.
 
 The family were caught completely unaware as the car first ran over those sleeping on the footpath and then rammed into the shanties. Bhagabhai and Lakshmi got wedged under the front of the car, were dragged, and suffered severe injuries. They were tak juries. They were taken to Sola Civil Hospital with other victims but their injuries proved fatal.
 
 Other injured persons - Laali Marwadi, 32, Malabhai Marwadi, 49, and Sangita (1.5) -are admitted in Civil Hospital.
 
 Four others were treated at the crash site. “According to Parmar's statement, they went to sleep around 11pm on Friday . While some slept inside the shanties, most were sleeping on the footpath. Around 12.45am on Saturday , the car, coming from the direction of Pallav Crossroads, veered onto the footpath,” said an investigator.
 
