MUMBAI: The   (PAC) headed by senior   leader   has passed stringent strictures against the water resources department for irregularities and corruption in the Gosikhurd irrigation pro ect in the   region.

 “The project was approved in 1983 for Rs 372 crore, now after nearly three and half decades, while the cost of the project has crossed the mark of Rs 18,494 crore, there are no signs of the project being completed in near future. There were rampant irregularities at all levels and all out efforts were made to protect erring officials,“   said in report submitted in both the houses of the state legislature on April 1.
 
 The committee had asked the water resources department to complete the project in a time-bound period and ensure that project affected farmers are appropriately rehabilitated and adequate compensation is paid to them within stipulated period. “A compensation of Rs 1,285 crore is yet to be paid, while 177 families are yet to be rehabilitated,“ the committee observed.
 
 The PAC pointed out that the water resources depart ment had set up two independent committees headed by the then secretaries of the departments--Vadnere and Mendgiri. Vadnere committee had held 15 officials guilty, while Mandgiri committee had fixed responsibility on 12 officials.While the two officials had submitted the report in 2011, so far no action has been taken against the 27 officials. It was found that out of those, seven officials have retired, quite a large number of guilty officials were promoted. “Since er ring officials were not suspended, they had full opportunity to change the official records. We asked the department to complete the entire process within 15 days and retirement dues of these officials should be withheld,“ the PAC submitted.
 
 Further, a high level inquiry should be conducted against those officials too, who failed to taking action against officials held guilty.In addition, it directed the water resources department to complete the left bank canal work before March 2018, failing which the pending work should be completed from the security deposits submitted by contractors. The PAC asked the government to appoint a committee of experts to draft an action plan for completion of inquiry. “Names of all the erring officials should be displayed on the website of the department and complete the probe within six months,“ the PAC said.
 
