KOLKATA: The attack on a Sikh man outside his house in Kent, Washington, the third incident of suspected hate crime against an Indian in the US in 10 days, has left Indians in America rattled. The eerie similarity between the attack on Deep Rai by an assailant who allegedly yelled “Go Back to Your Own Country“ and the Kansas City bar shooting, in which Srinivas Kuchibhotla was killed and his fellow techie Alok Reddy Madasan was injured, has made Indians worried about where the situation is headed.

 “Certain sections of population in the US have always been against immigration from social, cultural and economical perspectives. However, the recent rhetoric against immigration has given them a platform to express their senti ment as hateful actions. This is uncalled for and should be stopped,“ said Tirthankar Ghosh, professor of computer science and information technology at St Cloud State University , St Cloud, Minnesota.
 
 At a Bengali luncheon meet in Tampa, Florida, on Sunday , hate crime was the main topic at the marathon adda session, and President   and his cabinet was at the receiving end of the anger. “The policies and the tenor of communication from the President's office is acting as a source of encouragement for a group of Americans who are not quite exposed to and do not like to listen to more tolerant viewpoints about multiculturalism. Though there is still a level of comfort that people from India working in the US are likely to be spared the brunt of backlash against immigration, there is also this sense that the chicken is coming home to roost,“ said Ambar Basu, professor of communication at University of South Florida.
 
 Many Indians believe it is time to be a little more careful about showing who they are and be muted with religious conservations in public.
 
 Pallavi Guha, a PhD candidate and adjunct instructor of journalism at the University of Maryland, said a sense of inse curity has engulfed Indians after the Kansas episode and can be felt in social gatherings.“We are watching our backs now. But having said that, lot of our American friends and colleagues have repeatedly said that discrimination and hate is not what Americans stand for. They are equally appalled at the turn of events,“ she said.
 
 Microbiologist Nandini Bhattacharya, who also lives in Maryland, is however hopeful that the situation will turn around as the White House has finally acknowledged the attacks as hate crimes and condemned them. “Sikhs have been the target in the past too, particularly after 911 with some mistaking them, with their turbans and beards, to be Arabs. I don't think one can predict anything, nor can one live in fear. We have to be cautious but optimistic. After all, the good people far outnumber prejudiced ones,“ she added.
 
 
 
 
  on Monday wrote to external affairs minister Sushma Swaraj on the recent attacks and deaths of Indians in the US. “It is indeed a matter of great concern and my heart goes out to share the sufferings that have come upon their family members. Since the number of Indians studying, working, living in the US is very large, such incidents are causing a situation of panic amongst their family members living in India,“ she said. She requested Swaraj to ensure that the matter is taken up at the highest level.
 
