The festive season is here, and it is the time when we celebrate and party in the best of our attires. Be it a wedding or any other celebration, the competition heats up to who’s wearing what! But if you can’t seem to fit in your favorite choli or the best kurta, and you want to be all fit to dance your way through the night this party season then   is the best solution for you!

 Certified Pilates instructor Sheetal Shah talks about 6 such Pilates workouts which will help you get a more toned and sleeker look!
 
 
 
 This is indeed one of the most beneficial arms and abs exercise. This workout helps in strengthening your arms, abs and upper mid back muscles. This workout is perfect if you’re looking to get rid of your bulging tummy, and if you're rooting for slimmer arms.
 
 
 
 Feet in straps is that one exercise which works the best towards strengthening your lower body. It targets your abs and legs. It specifically increases the flexibility of hamstrings and hip flexors. It also works towards developing balance in hip musculature. So now fit in easy in the pants or skirt you have been hiding in your closet. Show your newly tone curves after trying out this workout!
 
 
 
 This workout is good for your upper body. It is great for the same as it works towards strengthening your posterior and anterior shoulder muscles. This workout also increases your torso stabilization. It helps you achieve the ideal posture which u might lack. Also, helps you in getting toned shoulders.
 
 
 
 The right posture helps you look taller, slimmer and more confident. The posture you have tends to give away your personality. So, in order to get a striking personality, having a right posture helps a lot. This Pilates workout, in particular, strengthens scapular stabilizers, increases torso stabilization and improves your standing posture. Besides, your posture it additionally helps in your arm and shoulder muscles.
 
 
 
 Hamstring is that part of the body which runs from the bottom of your buttocks to the back of your knee. Many of us face the problem of having weakness in that area or even stiffness. Pilates workouts can help loosen, strengthen and condition that part to have a toned look. Pull Up Hamstring is helpful in strengthening your abdominals. Along with that it also helps in strengthening your shoulders and hip flexors.
 
 
 
 If you want to show off your leg by the slit of the skirt or just walk with mega confidence, then this workout is for you. Pilates lunge helps in strengthening your tour quadriceps which is the fleshy muscles at the front and side of your tighs, hamstrings and gluteal. It also improves the alignment of your legs. So no need to stress about that as this Pilates workout will help you achieve your desired look. 
 
