Where else, but in a public transport, will you have the liberty to gaze at another man without being called out upon?’ asks director Faraz Arif Ansari. There’s little surprise then as to why the filmmaker chose to set his short film   in the busy Mumbai local train.

 Billed as India’s first queer love story, Faraz says it’s a homage of sorts to the cruising that happens in the locals, but isn’t spoken about. More importantly, through its silence, the film calls for real representations of queer people in mainstream cinema, thereby raising a point in favour of the global queer community.
 
 
 
 After scripting Ravivar in 2013, Faraz took it to major production houses. “Oddly, most replied that they loved the film, but given the content, they wouldn’t be able to produce it,” he recalls. The protagonist was homosexual.
 “I hoped the film would start a dialogue about representing homosexual people in mainstream cinema without stereotyping, but the production houses had qualms about them being shown as real people,” says Faraz. This got him thinking about making a film he could finance on his own, and Sisak was the answer. “Some decisions are pivotal for your growth and the larger good of the community. This was one of them,” says Faraz, who went on to make the silent love story of two men on the Mumbai local.
 
 
 
 Why choose silence, one might ask. Faraz says, “Round about the same time in 2013, the Supreme Court overturned the decriminalisation of IPC’s Section 377. I realised how helpless I felt then. I wrote a lot on Facebook and Twitter, but took all those posts down. It felt like my tongue was snatched out of my throat,” says Faraz who confesses that this inspired him to take to silence. “It’s a metaphor for what the queer community goes through – their voices shut and rights denied.”
 Our cinema tends to be verbose, Faraz feels. “Words sometimes fail to truly conveying emotion. There’s so much that visuals alone can say. I wanted to show how two characters, without talking or even touching each other, could have an intimate relationship,” says Faraz, who has also worked in Bollywood.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 Five days before the shoot, Faraz’s initial set of actors backed out. As a last resort, Faraz called for actors online. Actor Jitin Gulati responded. “Jitin surrendered completely to the story and his character of a corporate man,” says Faraz. Dhruv Singhal, who plays the young boy, was suggested by Faraz’s friend. “Dhruv was comfortable in his skin and with his silences, when most actors think acting is all about the dialogue delivery,” adds Faraz, who found his final leads in these two.
 But did the actors have qualms about their roles? Jitin says, “Silent films are rarely made today, and the chance to work on one really excited me. The fact that I had to fall in love with a man was quite secondary.” Dhruv, however thought a lot about the role. “I never had a problem, but I was worried what people around me and even my family would say. But, if we essayed women so easily in our school plays, why should it be any different playing a gay man?” asks Dhruv, a student of Symbiosis Centre for Media and Communication, Pune.
 Faraz admits to not knowing his actors’ sexual orientations initially. Prior to shooting, Jitin and Dhruv spent two weeks interacting with the queer community, listening to their stories in order to relate to their characters.
 
 
 
 Sans any permissions, the film was shot over three nights, guerrilla style. Faraz says, “Six months went into planning the shoot. We also travelled in local trains extensively to get an idea of which train left from which platform, and got empty at what time.” The crew, including the DOP and sound designer, worked on the film for free.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 Many actors told Faraz, ‘Your film will go places, but we don’t want to be seen as homosexual characters. It will jeopardise our career.’ “Actors seem to have no qualms playing murderous psychopaths or rapists, but it’s surprising how they think of homosexual roles to be detrimental. In mainstream cinema, gay men are usually portrayed as stereotypically effeminate or wife-snatchers. Our system has created this damaged perception,” says Faraz. 
 Filmmaker Apurva Asrani, who wrote  , the 2016 Indian biographical 
 drama, believes that these representations have changed, but there’s still a long way to go. “With films like Aligarh, Dear Dad and Kapoor & Sons, 2016 was a remarkable year for gay characters. But this said, I think, as along as we don’t out ourselves, it’s okay to be gay. It’s okay for a homosexual character to be the butt of all jokes, as long as it’s not a regular person. Because then, you’re suddenly not lampooning or making fun. One isn’t really breaking ground by creating a homosexual character and then poking fun.” 
 
 
 
 Sisak met with rejection at the prestigious Tehran International Short Film Festival. In an e-mail to Faraz, the organisers stated that the “subject is not suitable for our festival.” Queer relationships are illegal and punishable in Iran. 
 Apurva recalls a similar situation with Aligarh. “Film festivals usually do not even ask for a censor certificate, so we never faced issues with regard to the content. However, the agents of the Dubai International Film Festival told us at the onset, that Aligarh didn’t stand a chance because of it’s gay content,” says Apurva, who believes that in countries where queer relationships are illegal and punishable, it’s understandable for such kind of content to face a similar fate.
 Post its world premiere at Wicked Queer, Faraz is hoping that Sisak’s Indian premiere will happen at the next edition of the KASHISH, Mumbai.
 
 
 
  
  
 
