MUMBAI: A   residing in Andheri (east) has been arrested for allegedly raping two minor girls, by asking them to help him   in their locality. The police said they arrested   after one of the girls informed them that her “assaulter was partly bald“.

 The police said that Jaswar raped the two children -one aged nine and the other 13 -over the last one month, by pro mising them sweets or money if they helped plant saplings.
 
 Jaswar who is married has a one-year-old daughter. A graduate, he used to do petty jobs at Film City in Goregaon, but has been jobless for the last six months. He was arrested on Tuesday.
 
 The first case was registered at Saki Naka police station on May 11 for the rape of the nine-year-old. The girl was found crying outside a public toilet.
 
 Police inspector Chandrashekar Nalawade said they caught Jaswar said that a team of crime branch unit-10 com prising assistant inspector  , constables Sachin Khanvilkar and   went scouting for a “partly bald“ man and tracked down Jaswar through their network of informants.
 
 A police officer said that his interrogation revealed that he had earlier raped a 13-year-old in Ghatkopar. This case was registered at Ghatkopar police station on Thursday.
 
 “One of the two minors has identified him,“ this police officer said on the condition of anonymity. Police sources said that they are investigating if Jaswar is a “habitual rapist“.
 
 The nine-year-old girl was sexually assaulted when she was outside her house which is located in a chawl.The police said that Jaswar, approached the girl and offered her money if she helped him plant trees.The alleged rape took place a distance from the girl's house.
 
 “The girl told her father that the man had taken her to a public toilet which was not lit and not in use,“ said the police officer.
 
 Jaswar has been booked for kidnap and rape under the Indian Penal Code. Sections pertaining to penetrative sexual assault under Prevention of Children from Sexual Offences Act have also been slapped against him.
 
 Jaswar who was made to undergo a medical examination on Thursday has been sent to police custody till May 22.
 
