MYSURU: Hundreds of people from   and neighbouring districts aired their grievances and submitted their memoranda to chief minister   during the   held at the   here on Saturday.

 Before starting the meet at 11am, Siddaramaiah addressing officials from different departments said that majority of the people go to the tahsildar, assistant commissioner, police or social welfare departments. “You should listen to public grievances and resolve them,” he said.
 
 “There were lots of complaints from villagers regarding delay on the part of surveyors in measuring their land and marking the boundary. Surveyors should not create unnecessary delay, but should immediately attend to them,” he said.
 
  president Kurubur Shantakumar submitted a memorandum, seeking action against 15 sugar factories in the state, including Chamundeshwari and ICL in Mandya district, which have alleged failed to provide fair and remunerative price (FRP) for farmers for purchasing sugarcane.
 
 When the members of Bharat Earth Movers Employees’ Association and BEML Officials’ Forum submitted a memorandum urging Siddaramaiah to intervene to prevent the   from being privatized, the latter assured them that he will write a letter to Prime Minister Modi and also discuss the issue in the coming legislature session.
 
 I am no rowdy: Shopkeeper
 
 Siddaramaiah was annoyed when a man from Periyapatna taluk started crying even before explaining his problem. Later, the CM was moved after coming to know that police have listed him as a rowdy element. Krishnegowda, a petty shop owner, sobbingly said that police were torturing him regularly to remove his shop. “I fought with policemen once, and police listed me as a rowdy element,” he claimed.
 
 Siddaramaiah directed SP Ravi Chennannavar to advise his subordinates not to trouble Krishnegowda and to remove his name from the rowdy list. He also handed over Rs 2 lakh cheque to   fire accident victim Harshal’s parents Murthy and Jansi during the event.
 
 District minister H C Mahadevappa, food and civil supplies minister U T Khader, and MLAs M K Somashekar and Vasu were present.
 
 
