NEW DELHI: It was the perfect Sunday afternoon   for heat-struck  . With skies overcast for much of the day, heavens opened up over most parts of the capital, with some sharp showers bringing respite from heat.

 By 8.30pm, Safdarjung had recorded 16.6mm of rain which brought the evening temperature down by as much as 9.2 degrees Celsius. The station recorded a temperature of   on Sunday as compared to 38 degrees recorded at the same time on Saturday.
 
 The wet weather is likely to extend till Monday, which is expected to be pleasant with the maximum temperature staying around 37 degrees Celsius. The regional met office had forecast moderate rainfall (around 17mm) for Sunday.
 
 The turn in the weather gave many Delhiites ample reason for heading outdoors with their families.
 
 “It’s a Sunday and the perfect weather to go out and enjoy the cool breeze. I brought my family out so we could drive around the city for a while and go for an ice cream after that,” said Jatin Gupta at India Gate.
 
 Officials from the Regional Weather Forecasting Centre in Delhi forecast similar weather for Monday, with thunderstorm and rain likely in parts of the capital.
 
 “It will be partly cloudy on Monday with the possibility of thunderstorm with rain in some parts. Maximum and minimum temperature will be around 37 and 27 degrees C, respectively, and this spell of rainfall is likely to keep temperatures below 40 degrees for a few days. Sunday recorded peak weather activity but some more rainfall is likely on Monday as well,” said a RWFC official.
 
 The rain was accompanied by gusty winds reaching up to 32 knots (60 km/hr) at Safdarjung. Rainfall was recorded in almost all parts of Delhi, Gurgaon and Noida. By 5.30pm, Ayanagar recorded 8mm of rainfall by 5.30 pm, while Safdarjung and Lodhi road received 2.2mm and 4.2mm of rainfall, respectively.
 
 On Sunday, the maximum temperature was recorded at 39.6 degrees C, while the minimum was 27.1 degrees.
 
 Evening showers led to waterlogging in a few places in the city. The worst affected areas were Chirag Dilli, Nehru Place, Modi Mill, Dhaula Kuan and ITO.
 
 The Ring Road and Outer Ring Road that disgorge almost 50% of the city   was among the worst places to be stuck in. South Delhi commuters said that it took them over an hour to travel from Greater Kailash to Malviya Nagar due to the snarls.
 
 Police blamed bad maintenance of the roads and poor drainage for the waterlogging. 
 
 Waterlogging was also reported from areas around Okhla, Kalkaji, Mayur Vihar, Mahipalpur and Azad Market. Commuters travelling from ITO towards south Delhi were stalled near IP flyover due to waterlogging near Sarai Kale Khan.
 
 
