NEW DELHI: Goa Chief Minister   on Tuesday lashed out at the   for alleging that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) was trying to 
  in the state.

 "If you (Congress) had the support then why did you not go to the Governor?" Parrikar said soon after 
  .
 
 "I agree the 
  , but with 22 MLAs together the vote share is more than sufficient," Parrikar said, addding, "It's a post-poll alliance."
 
 He also said that the support extended to his party to form government in the state is only for Goa's development.
 
 No MLA wanted to support Congress, he claimed.
 
 However, Congress is confident that Parrikar's government will fail the floor test on Thursday.
 
 "If Manohar Parrikar wants to be sultan of two days he is welcome to be so," Congress said.
 
 Parrikar, who resigned as Defence Minister, was sworn in as the   for the fourth time in presence of top BJP leaders including BJP national president Amit Shah, Union Ministers Venkaiah Naidu, Nitin Gadkari, JP Nadda and several other dignitaries.
 
 Nine ministers were also sworn in during the ceremony, namely Sudin Dhavalikar and Manohar Azgaonkar of the Maharashtrawdi Gomantak Party, Vijai Sardesai, Vinod Palienkar and Jayesh Salgaonkar of the Goa Forward, Francis D'Souza, Pandurang Madkaikar of the BJP and Independent legislators   and Rohan Khaunte.
 
 Earlier, the Supreme Court directed a floor test in the   on Thursday as it 
  with the Goa Governor's decision to appoint Manohar Parrikar as Chief Minister.
 
 Directing the floor-test to determine the majority support, the bench of Chief Justice Jagdish Singh Khehar, Justice Ranjan Gogoi and Justice RK Agrawal said that all the formalities prerequisite to the floor test, including by the Election Commission, would be completed by March 15.
 
 The court direction came on a plea by leader of the Congress legislature party in the state assembly Chandrakant Kavlekar who has sought stay of Governor Mridula Sinha's decision appointing Parrikar as Chief Minister and fixing his swearing in for Tuesday evening.
 
 The court also rejected the plea by senior counsel Abhishek Manu Singhvi for a composite floor test.
 
 
 
 
