These are women who will push you back into the compartment when you are trying to get down. But these are also the women who will pull you out of a near-stampede. These are women who will stomp on your feet with no regards for your safety, but these are the same women who will offer you home-made lep to treat that small scratch on your arm.   locals are a microcosm, that perfectly reflects how the world goes around, all the time oscillating between the good and the evil, as if, in perfect harmony with the trains' swinging movement.   makes a checklist of all these super women.

 
 
 Running alongside the   to board it? Giggles. Being pushed so bad you can feel the other person's intestines working? Giggles. A toxic smell that leaves everybody second-hand embarrassed? Giggles. Ok, the last one's justified. But seriously, you teenagers full of hope and God's light, can you share some of your joys with the world? Because trust us, by the time you turn 25 and these local trains becomes your battle ground, you will need some miracle to keep the giggles going.
  
  
 
 
 As soon as she has settled in, and by settled in, we mean found her half square inch airtight space, out comes the little book of psalms. If you see her from a distance, you might be fooled into thinking that she is talking to herself. But no, she is just reciting her daily prayers.Now, we are not sure how much strength God really gives them, but sometimes the mutterings may seamlessly get converted into a shriek of `dhakka kashaala deta?' before the voice fades back into the spiritual sanctuary. All in the same breath, mind you.
  
  
 
 
 
 You have a bra strap showing? Are you having trouble holding the mirror and applying lipstick at the same time? Are you having an ugly fight on the phone with your bae? She is there to offer you her wisdom and help. Even if your lungs are crying out for   to breathe, she will find space to tuck your bra strap safely under your top. She will offer to hold your mirror, and also advise you about the best colours to suit your skin tone. And she will psychologically counsel you, giving you a thousand instances of her own relationship problems, and then also share her lunch with you. Sometimes, she will leave you questioning your sanity with her non-stop meddling. And then, there will be times when you will be thankful that there are still some of this breed left in the world.
  
  
 
 
 
 Thank God, fire is such a big safety issue in the railways.Or else, Mumbai locals would have been the breeding ground for a bunch of   star chefs from India. From chopping to peeling, all their mise en place is taken care of in the two hour commute from   to CST. Links to youtube tutorials and secret family recipes are exchanged with much gusto. And the result of all this sharing and caring are presented, inevitably, the next day to all who care to take a spoonful. 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 Self explanatory. God help you if your bag touches her shoulder or you accidentally tickle her. She is not the one to waste words.No, because she doesn't need to.One look at you, and you will feel the hairs on the back of your neck standing up. Yes, she can make rocks melt with her glare. Better carry a nazar suraksha kawach.
  
  
 
 
 
 She will doze off, more often than not, on your shoulder. The time, the route, the density of population, nothing really matters. In fact, you can even spot her standing on one leg, hanging on to the danglers by her pinky, amidst screams of `pudhe chala' and still, sleeping so peacefully, you will want to sing her a lullaby! Or, not, because she definitely doesn't need it. And all that, while maintaining perfect balance. *Mindblown*
  
  
 
 
 
 Crowdsourcing, or jugaad as we desis put it, is the mantra of her life. So, from entertainment to news, she will make sure her daily dose is taken care of on the train itself. She will peek into your phone, your book, your notepad, even your lunchbox, and no amount of uncomfortable snideglances will discourage her. She has mastered this art through years of sitting for exams she did not want to sit for. In fact, she is so committed, that she will even enjoy the gossip you are indulging in, on your WhatsApp chat group, even though she has no connection to anybody playing a role in that narrative!
  
  
 
 
 
 Dhundne se to bhagwan bhi mil jaate hai, to seat kya cheez hai? This one lives and breathes that philosophy . So, even before she has successfully placed both her feet on the footboard, she will start her serial investigation into everyone's destinations -so she can reserve a seat for herself. Sometimes, even after she has reserved one, she will still continue questioning in search of a better deal. You can spot this one from a mile away . Because she is probably asking you where you will get down from a mile away -neck craned, eyebrows reaching for the roof and fingers pointed tactically at every person unlucky enough to have found a seat. Don't be surprised if she brings out a telescope from that jhola of hers.
  
  
 
 
 
 
