Sooraj Santhosh, also the lead vocalist of band Masala Coffee, is already a hot favourite with his mellifluous renditions of folk infused music. The young artiste is now basking in the glory of his recent achievement — State Award for the Best Singer for the song   from the Tovino-starrer  . Sooraj tells us how it feels to receive such a recognition, what makes the song special and what’s coming up from for him in the music scene. 

 
 
 It came as a surprise to me, as I never expected one in the first place. Actually I was hoping that the director of Guppy, John Paul George and the music composer, Vishnu Vijay would go on to become awardees. Winning the award alongside my friend Vishnu doubled my joy. Vinayak Sasikumar, the lyricist, has done a commendable job, and I credit him for such beautiful lines. Also, the fact that John, Vishnu and I have been friends for a long time, instilled in us an emotional connect for the project. Since each of us knew what the other expected, things became all the more easy. It always feels good to be associated with such a good film, that tells the tale of friendship.
 
 
 
 People who have seen the film might know that all the songs are situational and go with the narrative quite well. The moment I listened to the story, I was able to imbibe the true essence of the film as such. Maybe that is precisely why I managed to emote the feeling very well, and was able to immerse myself in the mood of the song. One of the best compliments I have received from music lovers is that when they are feeling completely low, the song raises their spirits. Thaniye Mizhikal has that beautiful and magical touch to it. No compliment can be better than that.
 
 
 
 Each composer has his own identity, and the musicians are very particular about what they want from a singer. When I first recorded for Ilaiyaraja sir, I was a bit nervous. But once he told me the specifications in detail, I quickly grasped what he said, and sang the song in 45 minutes, my fastest recording time so far. 
 
 However, I am more inclined towards composing songs in Malayalam, rather than restricting myself to just singing. I have plans to make music either through Masala Coffee or through my own independent projects. 
 
 
 
 I have sung a few songs in Telugu, Tamil and Kannada. I have also sung a peppy love song in Nivin Pauly’s Njandukalude Naatil Oridavela. Also, coming up is a brand new album from Masala Coffee, which has original compositions, and has around 10 songs in total. 
 One of our songs, titled Aalayal Thara Venam will see a film adaptation in a prominent Malayali filmmaker’s project, the details of which will be revealed at a later date. I will also be venturing on a solo album, for which I will make my own compositions. All of this will hopefully happen by the end of the year.
 
