KOCHI: A   That Broke Out At   Was Contained, Thanks To Automated   And  
Even as serious questions are being raised about the efficacy of fire safety measures in malls and commercial establishments, a minor fire that broke out on Tuesday at Oberon mall was doused by the automated fire safety equipment and an alert staff.
 
 The fire that broke out on the fourth floor of the mall, situated on Palarivattom-Vytilla bypass, at around 11.15 am, could have gone out of control, if unchecked. Around 500 people including those watching movies at the mall's multiplex were evacuated from the building.Though no causalities were reported the fire had the potential to damage the food court, which is close to the kitchen where the fire broke out.
 
 Mall sources said that the fire broke out at the kitchen of a shop selling North Indian dishes in the food court. The fire safety team in the control room were alerted by the automatic fire alarm system and they directed the security personnel to safely evacuate the customers from the building.
 
 The automated sprinklers attached to the fire safety system doused the fire that was visible in the kitchen area. But the fire in the duct was still raging and was put down by personel from the fire and rescue services department “We were thankful that the automated system worked properly and could prevent the fire spreading to other parts of the building,'' said a mall official.
 
 Four fire fighting engines from Gandhinagar and Thrikkakara fire stations doused fire in the air duct by around 12.30pm. Visitors in the mall and cine-goers were all evacuated through stairs as they had cut off electricity to lifts and escalators.Since the PVR-Cinemax screens were also on the fourth floor the security men had a tough time evacuating people to safety .
 
 “Prima facie we feel the fire was broke from the kitchen. We have registered a case regarding the incident and real reason for fire will come out after investigation,“ said Ernakulam  
 
 A fire official of Gandhi Nagar Fire station said the fire broke out while an employee was cooking a dish on pan filled with oil in the kitchen, the roof of which was covered with thermocol sheet. “The oil on the pan caught fire and the thermocol caught fire from the flame. Only the thermocol sheet in the kitchen and in a shop adjacent to it got damaged in the incident. But the smoke from it caused panic among customers and employees in the mall,“ the official said.
 
 The smoke spread to other floors and fire officials broke glass panels in the fourth floor to clear it. Kochi range I G P Vijayan and Kochi corporation mayor Soumini Jain visited the mall. “We were watching a film when the officials raised alarm,“ said Rajalakshmi Arun Kumar and her daughter Bhadra.
 
 The fire and rescue personnel had tough time accessing the portion of the building where the fire broke out as there was no space for fire engines to freely move around the premises of the mall. Free access around the building was blocked by the mall authorities because waste was being dumped behind the building, forcing fire engines to enter a public road to reach the spot
 
