Porvorim: Senior Congress leader Pratapsingh Rane on Tuesday urged the state government not to allow any religious structures on roadsides and public places across the state in view of the recent cases of desecration of religious structures. Taking part in the motion of thanks to the governor’s address, referring to the recent desecration of religious structures, Rane said that Goa is a peaceful state, except for a few stray incidents. He also said that the law and order situation is really deteriorating in the state. “This is not the work of one. Many are doing it (damage to religious structures). Somebody must be instigating him and there is a need for further inquiry,” he added. Not naming any one, Rane said that these days, certain people are coming to the state and in the name of religion, they establish or put up some religious symbols in public places and it should be declared as illegal. “Don’t allow any religious symbols to come up on roadsides and in public places, except proper places with proper licences,” Rane said, adding that when desecration take places, it affect the entire community and it spoils the name of a community. “We have enough temples, churches and mosques in Goa. Today, the roads are narrow. Now, we have got cars and people have become affluent. If something happens, a law and order situation could arise. Referring to the Merces attack on tourists, Rane said that tourism is a very important economic activity of the state. “Therefore my request is that tourism should not be affected with such incidents and it is the duty of this government to take action against these unlawful elements,” he said. Rane criticized the state government for not completing the regional plan which has encouraged illegal constructions in the state. He also urged the state government to come up with a new education policy for the state. On offshore casinos, Rane said that the government should not allow River Mandovi to get polluted. “We are ready to show alternative sites to move casinos out of River Mandovi,” he said. On Gau Rakshaks, Rane said, “These are unlawful elements attacking transport of cattle. We have to see what policy we are going to follow.”