NAGPUR: The Nagpur bench of   recently stated that the sessions court must ensure that accused get legal assistance.

 While dismissing pleas of two accused brothers from Akola, who are behind bars, the court held that it’s not sufficient for sessions court merely to enquire on whether accused would like to avail of legal assistance, when the case is being filed.
 
 “The sessions court has to enquire, even at later stage, if it finds that the accused was facing trial without legal assistance. Failure on judge’s part results in denial of statutory right granted to the accused in the case and violation of   under Article 21 of the Constitution of India,” the division bench comprising justices Bhushan Dharmadhikari and Atul Chandurkar said.
 
 The petitioners — Mohammed Hanif and Mohammed Azam (both labourers) — challenged rigorous imprisonment awarded to them by the   for a murder on July 12, 2012. They claimed about 12 people were involved in the killing for which two criminal trials were conducted and they were denied legal aid in one of those.
 
 Claiming fundamental error in trial and breach of Section 304 of Criminal Procedure Code ( ), they prayed for a joint trial of both cases and fresh judgment.
 
 Opposing their claims, the prosecution contended that the accused can’t be permitted to take advantage of their own wrong, as they approached court with unclean hands and attempted to drag the litigation to harass witnesses.
 
 Citing their previous history, the prosecution argued that in one trial they engage a lawyer while in other they denied help from legal aid cell and also to cross-examine the witnesses. Later, they once again hired the same lawyer when the case was being heard in the high court. The accused also allegedly threatened the witnesses and lodged false complaint against them with a view to mount pressure.
 
 The judges observed that the procedural provisions can’t be abused to sabotage the directives of superior court or to force the witnesses under pressure to depose again and again. “If petitioners were really bothered about their rights, they wouldn’t have sought a joint trial. They did so after due deliberations with the expert advise. When the trial in two sessions cases is clubbed or consolidated, Section 273 of CrPC doesn’t necessitate fresh examination of prosecution witnesses already examined and cross examined by the other co-accused persons.” 
 
 They added that both petitioners were granted adequate opportunity by the trial court and procedure resorted to it hasn’t violated Section 273 or Section 304 of CrPC. “We find no substance in petitioners contentions. However, merely because challenges are rejected, the appeals can’t be dismissed and need to be heard on merits,” the court said, before asking registry to list both appeals for further consideration.
 
 
