It was not the first time that section 353 (assault or criminal force was used to deter a public servant from discharging his duty) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was being invoked, that too along with section 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to a public servant on duty). However, this once, two brothers arrested under the sections in 2011, fought back over the past six years, with irrefutable evidence that they had been wrongly framed and that it was the police they’d clashed with who were in the wrong. On the basis of this, the city magistrate court acquitted the duo recently.

 On the fateful day, the siblings — Mayur Pandurang Pagade (30) and   (20) of Navi Khadki — were visiting a bank on  , when their moped parked on the road was towed away by the Koregaon Park traffic cops. When they tried to retrieve their bike from the traffic division, challenging the fine imposed, the altercation erupted into a scuffle between them and the cops, including inspector B D Shinde and the tow-van operator and police naik, Ganesh Salve. To prevent the two from going away with their bike, the police tried to put a jammer on the bike. In the struggle that ensued, Salve was pushed and Shinde’s knee was injured. The two were quickly arrested under the two sections of the IPC.
 
 However, during the trial of the case the prosecution was unable to produce the video mandatory to be shot at the time of towing away any vehicle. On the other hand, the defence produced evidence extracted using Right to Information to show that the road from where the bike was picked was not a no parking zone. The tow van used had no legal contract with the police at the time of the action ( the contract had expired). Worse, Salve who filed the FIR at the Bund Garden police station, against the duo, was not on duty when the incident occurred.
 
 If this was not enough to leave the police redfaced, the defence represented by Rajesh Kawediya and Vinod Ingale also produced photographs taken by media persons present at the venue also showed that it was the brothers who were beaten up rather than the other way around. This demolished   A K Pacharane’s argument that the spot panchnama proves that the accused had assaulted inspector Shinde, as the two were agitated after their vehicle was towed away and the police were refusing to return it. He had sought maximum punishment for the crime.
 
 As per the evidence presented by the defence, the police were caught in an illegal act of towing a vehicle from a zone where parking is allowed. “The police had brought no charge against my clients for not paying the fine, only implicated them of beating the cops. The bike was returned without any case. The duty chart clearly showed that Ganesh Salve was not officially on the rounds, instead, another constable who shared the same surname was in office,” informed defence lawyer Kawediya.
 
 The magistrate, P T Gotye, raised serious doubts on the entire criminal case stand against them and acquitted them of all charges. He observed that all the witnesses presented in court were cops only and no other person present on the spot at the time of incident was examined. “The statement of the doctor who treated the injured cop was never recorded before the court. Not a single evidence by the cops is reliable. The RTI information, duty chart and other details raises serious doubts on the prosecution case. The submissions by defence appears more appropriate, hence the case made by the police is not sufficient to hold the accused guilty,” the magistrate’s order stated.
 
 Relieved to be acquitted, the two brothers just want to get back to their business of assembling sound systems, rather than court trouble going after the cops who harassed them these past years. “We suffered a lot because of this false case. We have no courage to go against the police or seek any compensation for the false case,” Mayur Pagade told Mirror.“I abandoned my education due to this case and turned to our family vocation. It was a scary day that we want to erase from our memory,” rued younger brother Prakash Pagade.
 
 
