In the hottest-ever year of 2016, a team of top climatologists began research in the Indian Himalayas, one of the coldest regions in the world, believing it won't remain the same.

 Their aim was to map permafrost, the ground that remains below 0 degree Celsius for more than two consecutive years, in the Himalayan mountains of Kullu in   and find out if it has begun to melt due to global warming, as is happening in the Arctic regions.
 
 This first-ever research on permafrost in the Indian Himalayan Region (IHR) by the Indo-Swiss Indian Himalayas Climate Adaptation Programme (IHCAP) has kindled scientific interest in studying permafrost in the Himalayas and how climate change is affecting it.
 
 In the first phase of the study, the team has successfully mapped permafrost distribution in Kullu district. It commonly occurs from an elevation of around 4,500 metres.
 
 When permafrost melts, the land above sinks or changes shape, which leads to natural calamities like landslides, slope collapse, glacial lake outburst floods (GLOF). This damages infrastructure on the ground.
 
 However, the most alarming aspect of permafrost thawing is the fact that when permafrost melts, the trapped carbon is released into the atmosphere in the form of methane, a powerful greenhouse gas. This sets off a vicious cycle of climate change.
 
 According to Dr  , a research associate at the department of Geography, University of Zurich, Switzerland, who was part of the Indo-Swiss team of scientists, it is the beginning of permafrost research in the Indian Himalayas. “While there have already been studies elsewhere, such as the Andes or Alps, it's the first time research has started in the IHR. This study can provide sound basis for formulating further permafrost measurement and monitoring projects that may extend across the wider Himalayas in future.“
 
 The Arctic regions, like Alaska, Canada and Russia have started feeling the impact of permafrost thawing and a great deal of research has already been done in the mountain ranges of Andes and Alps. But it has taken a fairly long time for similar studies to be conducted in the Himalayas.
 
 Dr  , a senior glaciologist at the International Centre for Integrated Mountain Development (ICIMOD), Kathmandu, Nepal, agrees saying that not much data is available for the Himalayas.
 
 “Very few studies exist on permafrost and knowledge on permafrost distribution and processes is very limited for this region. It started to receive more attention in the Himalayas in the last few years only,“ said Dr Stumm.
 
 According to Dr Allen, one reason why permafrost was given importance over glaciers is that the latter is the biggest source of water.
 
 “Glaciers are a water source but study of permafrost is equally important,“ said Dr Allen.
 
 With the IHCAP study, the research scenario in the country is slowly changing.Close on the heels of the IHCAP study , the Indian Permafrost Network (IPN) was created last year to promote permafrost research in the country . The  , (NIH), Roorkee, has started collaborating with ICIMOD to exchange technical know-how and expertise in permafrost studies in the Himalayas.
 
 According to Dr  , a scientist at NIH and coordinator of IPN, studying permafrost has been a missing component of the Hima layan cryosphere. But now, progress is being made.
 
 “A lot of activity has started to happen in this direction.
 
 We have begun field measure ment and modeling studies in collaboration with Carleton niversity of Canada and ICI MOD in Ladakh. We are exploring the possibility of taking up studies of taking up studies with IHCAP,“ said Dr Renoj.
 
