RAJKOT: Family members of   (35), whose body was found from Aji river bank on Sunday, alleged on Tuesday that Prakash had died in police custody and demanded a   probe in the case. They also refused to take body of the deceased, till their demands were met.

 According to police, Lunagariya, a resident of Dhrangdhra town of Surendranagar, had died after clash with his friend Shaktisinh Zala, over sharing booty after a robbery on Sunday night. Shaktisinh’s body was also found near Lunagariya’s on Aji river bank.
 
 However, Lunagariya’s family members claimed that police have scripted a false story to cover up what were ‘custodial deaths’. 
 
 Even Shaktisinh’s mother, Neetaba had refused to buy the version of events by the police and alleged that her son was murdered in their custody. She said that her son was in the custody of Bhaktinagar police on Sunday.
 
 Meanwhile, members of the Sardar Patel Group (SPG) reached to console relatives of Lunagariya, who belongs to the Patel community, at the civil hospital in Rajkot.
 
 They demanded CBI probe into the death of Lunagariya and Shaktisinh. 
 
 On Sunday night, Shaktisinh (19), accused in several offences including murder of a constable, and Lunagariya, were found dead on the Aji river bank. Police had then claimed that Shaktisinh and Lunagariya had robbed an unidentified person and had a dispute over share of booty and both killed each other.
 
 However, members of the SPG group claimed that the injury marks on Lunagariya’s body clearly indicate police ‘torture’. “There were injury marks on the sole of his (Lunagariya’s) feet which indicates he was beaten up in police custody. It is unlikely that he received such injury during a scuffle,” alleged Linesh Sagpariya, member of SPG.
 
 “The claim by the police is ridiculous. Shaktisinh and Lunagariya both were tortured in police custody and then their dead bodies disposed of on Aji river bank. Also, till Monday afternoon, police was clueless about the exact spot where both died after the clash,” Sagpariya further alleged.
 
 According to police, Shaktisinh, Lunagariya, Kadar Malek, Yuvrajsinh Zala and Prakash Parmar, all friends, had met near   and hatched a plan to rob anyone who comes near the river bank. Shaktisinh had told them that he was in urgent need of money.
 
 According to their plan, they intercepted two persons riding a bike, thrashed them with iron pipes and sticks around 8pm on Sunday. However, they did not get any money from them. Meanwhile, police received a tip-off about a fight on the river bank and rushed there. 
 
 But Shaktisinh and others escaped before police arrived. Later, at around 11pm, they robbed an unidentified person of Rs 5,700. After the loot, Kadar, Parmar and Lunagariya demanded their share of money. This angered Yuvrajsinh and Shaktisinh and they started thrashing them. 
 
 When police reached the spot, Lunagariya was lying unconscious but arrested Kadar, Parmar and Yuvrajsinh. Lunagariya was rushed to the hospital where he succumbed to injuries. Meanwhile, when police were searching for Shaktisinh, one passer-by informed them about a man lying dead in Aji river.
 
