BHOPAL: With Congress and   playing caste politics in by-polls slated for April 9,   chief minister   in an effort to woo dalits during election campaign in Bhind has again stirred up a hornet's nest by saying ''reservation will not be abolished and no one can change the constitution of  ''.

 Employee unions opposing politics of reservation, SAPAKS (Samanya Pichhada Kalyan Sangthan) has objected to Chouhan's statement and dubbed it as violation of election code of conduct to bait reserved class voters.
 
 ``We are working in the interest of Dalits and would ensure that reservation will not be abolished at any cost. Nobody has the guts to change the constitution of Baba Saheb (Ambedkar)'', challenged Chouhan while addressing a public meeting orgnaised for Dalit and Scheduled Caste voters in Jaishree Garden of Bhind, on Thursday.
 
 Chouhan's statement drew the wrath of SAPAKS as the organisation in an official statement took serious objection to chief minister's remark saying Chouhan has again reiterated the same words despite knowing that the matter of reservation in promotion is pending in the court and there were other issues which were to be addressed.
 
 ``Increasing unemployment, farm suicides are some of the serious issues which the state government led by Shivraj Singh Chouhan should address first. But, in order to garner Dalit votes, chief minister was raising reservation issue during his election meetings. This is blatant violation of election code of conduct'', read the statement released by SAPAKS.
 
 However,   member from Bhind Bhagirath Prasad, who was present in the meeting clarified that chief minister's statement was in view of rumours the the BJP government at the centre would bring amendments in the Constitution against reservation. Chief minister only confirmed that no one could change the Constitutional provisions on reservation.
 
 Earlier, in May 2016, when the Supreme Court rejected state government's demand for a stay on High Court ruling denying reservation in promotions, Chouhan in a meeting called by the Anusuchit Jati Janjati Adhikari Karmachari Sangh (AJJAKS), an organisation that espouses the cause of Dalit and tribal employees, had announced that there would be no demotions, at least not immediately.
 
 “No one could abolish reservation till I am alive. “Jab tak meri saans hai, aarakshan ko koi bhi khatm nahi kar sakta” (No one can discontinue reservation till my last breath), Shivraj had announced in the meeting drawing the wrath of SAPAKS members, who later approached the Apex Court for justice. The matter is still sub-judice.
 
 Since then, both the organisations have crossed swords with the state government at the helm of the affairs. Sources in the BJP said that Chouhan's stand on the reservation issue is in keeping with the BJP's larger strategy at the national level vis-a-vis the Dalit vote. In such a situation, the BJP government had no option but to appear to be opposing the HC order with all its legal muscle."
 
 Now, Chouhan's statement in Bhind by-poll campaign has again raked up controversy on reservation issue.
 
