JAIPUR: Just this year, more than $1,900 million have been raised by private equity and venture funds ( ) focused on India.Startup research firm Venture Intelligence estimates that nearly $15 billion of funds is lying as dry powder, the highest amount of free cash to date sitting and waiting to be invested in Indian ventures.

 The excitement around India has enabled funds to raise this enormous capital, but it's now cash that is desperately looking for investment avenues. With several sectors, especially on the consumer side, maturing, and with plenty of startup failures, PEVC funds have been forced to become more discerning in their investments. Quality, not quantity, has become the focus. So what does it mean to have $15 billion?
 It could mean lots of difficulties for fund managers. Most PE funds operate on a 7 to 9-year cycle. In the first three years, the funds are supposed to deploy more than 6070% of the amount they have raised. In the third to fifth year, the fund spends some more. By year six, it is just about managing portfolios.
 
 “High stashes of dry powder lead to multiple consequences ­ one is a lower internal rate of return ( ); another is that managers under pressure to deploy might deploy money in less than attractive investment opportunities,“ says a PE fund manager who did not want to be named.
 
 Fund managers can also choose to return money to investors if they feel there are no good investments even after a three-year period. Early last decade, Crosspoint Venture Partners in Woodside, US, suspended a plan to raise more than $1 billion, and did not spend a penny out of it.
 
 Whether it will come to that, time will tell. S Varadarajan of Venture Intelligence notes with some optimism that PEVC investments rebounded in August after hitting a 12-month low in July. “August saw $440 million in investments, making it the second highest month after March, which recorded investments worth $625 million,“ he says.He also notes that funds are looking at diversifying their portfolio.
 
 That could potentially take up some of the slack. Globally, PE funds invest even in mature and listed companies, and this could happen in India.There is also a distinct move to business-to-business ( ) ventures, to segments such as finance, healthcare, education, software-as-a-service, and away from business-toconsumer ( ) spaces such as e-commerce and food tech.
 
 “Today, everyone is avoiding B2C and trying to stick to B2B,“ says Parag Dhol, MD of Inventus Capital.
 
 Dhol too is not very worried about the future. He says the business of investing is cyclical and it's a matter of time before there's a recovery.“2015 saw a mad rush (of investments). Many investors bit off more than they could chew.I think they are still trying to digest what they have eaten. In 2017, the focus is more on trimming their losses and not new investments. So it's bound to be a relatively dull year,“ he says.
 
 Dhol expects the reversal will happen in 2019. “The India growth story is strong enough for lots more investments,“ he says.
 
 Vishesh Rajaram, managing partner of VC firm Speciale Invest, says that in 2008, there was similarly high dry powder, and low funding. “Ten years later, if we are seeing the same trend, it is nothing to worry about,“ he says.
 
 Vijay Anand, CEO of The Startup Centre, an accelerator for tech startups, is not as optimistic. He says India as a market for funds has been losing its edge to China. He blames this on the tendency among Indian entrepreneurs to build copy-cat versions of successful American startups.“The hypothesis is that if they do that, they will strike gold.Now, if this theory does not pan out, they are in a huge pickle. We don't have intellectual property, not a high number of patents. 
 
 So what is our differentiation?“ he asks. Innovation, ultimately, is the only way out ­ even for funds to find avenues of investment. And that could yet happen. Time and again, the Indian tech industry has proved the cynics wrong.“The who's who among MNCs are establishing engineering and R&D centres in India to do cutting edge work in areas like AI, machine learning, robotics, blockchain, analytics, IoT (internet-of-things). It's a matter of time before many working in these centres come out to establish their own ventures that innovate using these technologies for both India and the world.And many of them will be eminently fundable,“ says an industry analyst who did not want to be named.
 
 
