KAUSHAMBI: The rising discontent among (BJP) workers over   may dent prospects of the saffron party in  , considered to be the home turf of   state chief  . 

 The BJP cadre seems to be irked over the party leadership’s willingness to sideline popular leaders and instead field lesser known faces. Party workers have taken to streets to protest against senior leaders for ignoring the workers’ demand, who had worked hard to make party events like   yatra successful. 
 
 In its first list, BJP leadership announced the candidates for three seats in Kaushambi district– Chail, Manjhanpur and Sirathu. The party has decided to field Lal Bahadur from Manjhanpur, Pappu Patel from Sirathu and from Sanjay Gupta from Chail.
 
 Party workers in Sirathu and Manjhanpur constituencies demanded the BJP leadership reconsider their decision and filed popular party candidates who have worked hard since the last Assembly elections. 
 
 “Tickets are being given to unknown faces in Manjhanpur and Sirathu seats while there was a long list of aspirants waiting for a chance,” said a worker at Manjhanpur adding that BJP party would have to pay a price in the upcoming Assembly polls if it fielded outsiders in Sirathu and Manjhanpur seats.
 
 In the past three days, agitated group of workers have vented their ire on streets against the BJP UP chief Keshav Prasad Maurya in areas like Sarayakil, Manjhanpur, Maheva Ghat and adjoining areas.
 
 President of BJP’s Kaushambi unit, Ramesh Pasi, said, “The selection of candidates is done by BJP’s central parliamentary board. Though there is a long list of aspirants seeking a party ticket, only one can be given the ticket.”
 
 At Manjhanpur, party workers claimed Jitendra Sonkar should be announced as the party’s candidate instead of Lal Bahadur as he was not a familiar face among masses. Sonkar, on the other hand, was a well- known face and had been working in the area for the past five years. 
 
 While talking to TOI, Sonkar said, “I am a dedicated party worker and would continue to work for party’s victory.”
 
 In Sirathu as well, party workers were not ready to accept Pappu Patel as BJP nominee from the seat, which was once represented by Maurya himself.
 
