  

 
  Shah Rukh Khan, Mahira Khan, Nawazuddin Siddiqui, Lilly Singh, Mohammed Zeeshan Ayyub, Aarya Babbar, Vivek Vaswani, Zeenat Aman, Zakir Hussain
 
 
  Rahul Dholakia
 
 
 25 Jan, 2017
 
 
 2 hrs 22 mins
 
 
 RAEES is the fictitious story of a man named Raees, set in early 1980's to 1990's Gujarat, India. The film explores how Raees' relationships and meteoric rise helped him build an entire empire from scratch, to make him the single most powerful man in the state. Less of a gangster but more of an impresario, Raees gains popularity, a cult following and most importantly the public's trust by demonstrating entrepreneurial flair, unfettered determination to achieving his goals and ironically a heart of gold. His layered character traits encapsulate an inimitable blend of personas, making him revered, loved and feared. Always thinking ahead of the curve and using revolutionary ideas of management which were unheard of during his time, but are now doctrines for students, Raees eliminates every opposition that comes his way. However, his downfall will be crossing paths with the no-nonsense police officer Majumdar, whose sole reason for existence is the elimination of crime. What ensues next is a tumultuous battle between the two, which forms a key defining element of the film's narrative.
 
 
 
 
 Shah Rukh Khan has never looked better; he’s full of fury and for once, isn’t spreading his arms, but breaking others’. The film lies entirely on his shoulders and he carries the weight most of the times. When he doesn’t, the ever-so-reliable Nawazuddin Siddiqui steps in with his crackling performance. In the trademark Nawaz style, he delivers some comic relief while playing the Tom to Khan’s Jerry. Mahirah is restricted to songs and a few emotional scenes, but doesn’t really add much. If her purpose was to soften the baddie, it’s lost on the viewer. 
 
 The movie can feel a bit long, but if you’re going for a great Shah Rukh performance and some good ol’ popcorn-entertainment, it might just ‘raees’ to the occasion. 
 
 
 
 Coming Soon...
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 As far as 'Raees' is concerned, Shah Rukh fans are thoroughly enjoying the masala movie. The film's producer Farhan Akhtar is quite thrilled with the overwhelming initial response as is leading man Shah Rukh. Both celebs took to Twitter to thank their fans. Check out what Twitterati has to say about 'Raees':
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
