PATNA: The   (MMR) in Bihar has registered sharp fall in the last four years. According to the data available with the maternal health wing of the state health society (SHS), the MMR has come down from 208 to around 93 maternal deaths per one lakh live births, as computed in March this year.
 
  It is 16 points lower than the national average target of 109 maternal deaths per one lakh live births fixed for 2015 after the national sample registration system ( ) survey 2011-13, which also covered Bihar.
  
  The national average of MMR has to be brought down to 70 by 2030, as set for millennium development goal (MDG) pertaining to the country’s health sector in 2000. Bihar’s present MMR is 23 points more than that.
  
  “Still, I would say this is a tremendous achievement for Bihar. The concerned body of the Centre would read the data on the reliable   (HMIS). The achievement is also reflective of the growing high level of awareness among women and even at the family level about the need to have safe delivery,” said Dr  , programme officer of the maternal health wing of SHS.
  
  As a pointer to the growing awareness about safe delivery during the recently concluded Budget session of the state legislature, there was high number of questions posed by MLAs in the state assembly on health matters for proper replies from the government during the question hour.
  
  Annually, as many as 29 lakh women become pregnant in Bihar. The extent of the state’s achievement in bringing down its MMR could be gauged from the quantification of the average number of pregnant women dying every year in the course of pregnancy and childbirth — that is, from their conception to 42 days (six weeks) after childbirth due to causes other than incidental and accidental.
  
  Dr Jha said the major causes of deaths of pregnant women are anaemia, lack of proper nutrition and cleanliness, as well as the dreaded post-partum haemorrhage (PPH or severe bleeding following childbirth) caused in turn by tearing of the uterus and cervix, among several other factors.
  
  “Anaemia afflicts pregnant women in general and also makes them vulnerable to death due to PPH. The life of such women could be saved by timely supply of blood and medicinal care,” he added.
  
  He said “serious efforts” are being made to fulfil the demand of people regarding blood. The state has 72 blood banks, including 32 in the private sector, 29 in district hospitals and 11 in institutions like medical colleges, apart from 35 blood storage units (BSUs) and 68 first referral units (FRUs) to provide proper health and medical care to high risk pregnancy (HRP) cases. By June this year, the BSUs would be increased to 85 and the FRUs to 90.
