HYDERABAD: Possession of demonetised currency may not land you in trouble though the Centre has declared that citizens caught with a stash of scrapped Rs 500 and Rs 1000 notes after March 31 will be penalised.

 Tax consultants and chartered accountants clarify that holding demonetised notes is not a crime as the   (ITAT) in one of its orders maintained that since scrapped currency is no longer a legal tender, those possessing the notes should not be taxed or fined.
 
 Many tax consultants have decided to take shelter under the ITAT order to protect their clients from hefty penalties post-March 31. According to an ordinance issued by the Union government, possession of scrapped notes will attract criminal liability after March 31. If the source of income is not disclosed, the government will slap tax on the money seized.
 
 The ITAT’s order given in 1995 dates back to 1978 when then Prime Minister   demonetized Rs 5000 notes. ITAT had ruled that demonetized notes are not all   and thus the government cannot collect tax on it.
 
 Tax lawyer S Mohan said, “The   department during a raid on   found demonetised notes of face value of Rs 4 lakh in 1978. The department imposed tax-cum-penalty of Rs 95,000 on the firm”.
 
 The firm approached the ITAT, which a gave ruling in 1995, two decades after the case was filed. The tribunal said relevant provisions of IT Act can be imposed only if something valuable is found. Since demonetised currency does not have value it’s no more than a bundle of paper. It ruled the notes seized from the firm were no longer a legal tender, tax cannot be collected.
 
 “ITAT ruling has not been overruled by   so far. In this particular case, law can be used as defence in similar cases,” said another lawyer V Sekhar Chandra.
 
 However, other experts point out that though tax cannot be levied, government can impose penalty. According to new rules, one should not hold more than 10 demonetised notes. “The government can impose penalty. There is no precedence,” said Y Vijay Babu, a chartered accountant.
 
 
