Madurai: After prolonged and failing struggle against wild boars ravaging the agricultural fields, the recent government order on culling wild boars has come as the breather for the farming community in Madurai. Though crop raiding incidents have not been reported of late as cultivation activities are yet to begin, farmers are apprehensive that the animals will return as soon as farming starts. 

 The state government through its order Number 155 Environment and Forests (FR5) Department dated June 22nd, 2017 allowed culling of   on a pilot basis for a period of twelve months initially in forest divisions of Thiruvannamalai North and South, Tirupathur, Vellore, Hosur, Coimbatore, Madurai, Sathyamangalam and Hasanur, (in Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve Area) Attur and Salem Divisions. 
 
 Wild boar menace started in the district as a trickle in 2011 when farmers observed that a bunch of wild boars presumably migrated from Western Ghats to areas like Sedapatti and Peraiyur area and started feasting on the agricultural crops. “Within few years, they spread like a forest fire because they multiply quickly and now reached areas like Kariapatti in Virudhunagar district,” said A N M Thiruppathi, farming community leader in Madurai. 
 
 Farmers in almost half of Madurai district, especially in blocks like Thirumangalam, Sedapatti, Peraiyur, T Kallupatti, Kallikudi and Usilampatti where rain-fed farming is predominant, suffered due to frequent crop raiding by wild boars. The issue has come up repeatedly in farmers’ grievance redressal meetings at collector office during which forest department officials convinced farmers to collect compensation for the damages. 
 
 Collecting compensation however is a laborious task, said L Ramachandran, a farmer from Melakottai in Thirumangalam. “The compensation is meagre for the damages and takes months together to collect it after lengthy procedures,” he said. The maximum compensation for wild boar damage is Rs 25,000 per farmer, but wild boars cause repetitive and massive damage to crops. Farmers have to run from pillar to post to collect compensation, he rued. 
 
 Commenting on the permission to cull wild boars, district forest officer J R Samartha said that farmers incurring heavy damage to their crops by wild boars could petition to their respective range offices. The range officers after assessing the petition carefully will decide to cull the wild boars. As of now there is no wild boar attack or claims of compensation because the farming activities are yet to begin in the district, he said. 
 
 Ramachandran added that range officers should be diligent to take the call on culling. If there is usual delay in acting upon the petitions, wild boars will finish off almost entire crop by the time range officer visits the farm. “It is good thing that our repeated appeals have been heard finally. But it should be implemented effectively so as to minimize wild boar menace in the district,” he added. 
 
 Licence to cull
 
 Farmers suffering from crop damage by wild boars have to make a request to cull wild boars in writing to concerned forest range officer and has to furnish farm location, details of crop damage, approximate size and number of wild boar groups.
 
 The forest range officers, after consulting with the village forest committee/eco development committee president, village panchayat, and if satisfied with genuineness of the appeal, can shoot or arrange for shooting of wild boars. If range officer is not satisfied with appeal, he/she has to inform petitioner in writing with reasons for declining 
 
 Shooting of wild boar should be arranged utilizing the services of range officer or forester. The killed wild boar should be accounted by a forest officer not below the rank of forester and two members of public
 
 The killed wild boar meat should be disposed by burying or burning and not to be used for consumption or any other use. Subject to practicability, local veterinarian has to conduct a post-mortem and collect blood and tissue sample for further investigation
 
 All culling cases should be reported to superior officers of the area like conservator of forests, district forest officer and chief wildlife warden immediately
 
 Each district forest officer/wildlife warden has to constitute a monitoring committee with representatives from farmers, local bodies and local NGOs to monitor the impact of implementation of culling process and its impact on reduction of crop raiding incidents 
 
 
