AHMEDABAD: After seven months of groundwork — building toilets, garbage collection, awareness and publicity, the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) could not much satisfy the central inspection team for the 2017 cleanliness ranking. 

 Ahmedabad moved up just two notches from being ranked 14 in 2016 to rank at 12 this year, in the latest ‘Swachh Survekshan-2017’ rankings. A disappointed AMC health department claimed that the city deserved more.
 
 The issue assumes significance as Ahmedabad was the base for Mahatma Gandhi in 1915, and the Swachh Bharat Mission claims to build upon Bapu’s vision for a clean India. Ahmedabad was the place where Bapu began the first swachhta drive in the country. It was a civic campaign in the city between 1916 and 1920, backed by Dr Hariprasad Desai and Sardar Patel. Another disheartening data of the ranking is that Bapu’s birthplace, Porbander, has turned out to be the least ‘swachh’ city in Gujarat.
 
 AMC claims that in the case of building community toilets, the civic body had exceeded its target by 50%, but got less marks. “In waste processing, we could have been ranked among the top cities. 
 
 Waste processing involved hotels, educational institutions as well, but was ranked less,” said a senior AMC official. While comparing other cities, a few health officials pointed out how Ahmedabad had conducted more awareness activities, put up banners and slogans on cleanliness than some of the leading cities in the country. 
 
 “Even then we were ranked low,” said the AMC official. An official pointed out how Indore had just 13 complaints uploaded on swachch mobile application and showed all resolved, while Ahmedabad had 59,246 active citizens sending feedback and complaints out of which only 43 remained unresolved.
 
 Even the happiness index for Ahmedabad showed 83% citizens satisfied with AMC work. “Except for use of ICT-based technologies to track sanitary workers, where AMC self-assessed in the negative, the rest were all ranked well,” said the AMC official.
 
