By
 

 He was named  , the  , for the   he displayed after being dumped in a   in 2007 when he was just a day-old.
 
 Born   and abandoned, the boy carried 26 injuries when he was rescued after a milkman heard his cries.
 
 Mrityunjay will turn 10 in July, but the script hasn’t changed. If it was a struggle to stay alive just after birth, the challenge now is to find a home.
 
 The birthday celebrations on July 23 at the Bal Vikas Shishu Welfare Trust in Goregaon (E), which is Mrityunjay’s home for the last 10 years, will be muted. The reasons being, the boy has severe speech disorder, he cannot recognise people, and his caretakers say he wakes up in the middle of the night and starts crying, which is possibly the result of the trauma he suffered just after birth. “A lot of people promised many things after reading about his plight, but nothing materialised. No-one visits him anymore,” Jaissita Panigrahi, the managing trustee of the shelter told Mumbai Mirror.
 
 The police had managed to trace Mrityunjay’s mother two months after she had abandoned him. A resident of Kurar in Malad, she was aged 20 at the time of his birth. Mrityunjay was born out of wedlock, and the woman and her mother decided to abandon the baby as she had already been married to someone else.
 
 
  
 
 The woman’s mother dumped him in a bin outside Lokhandwala Complex in Kandivali; the bin contained rusted barbed wire and pieces of broken glass. A milkman passing by heard the baby’s cries and found an infant bleeding from the skull, ear, neck, and thighs, and alerted the police.
 
 Retired police officer Dattaram Khamkar, who had investigated the case, said the infant’s mother was arrested and charged for abandoning her baby. “She told the court that she cannot keep him with her. She was granted bail and the infant was sent to an orphanage,” Khamkar told Mumbai Mirror.
 
 Staff at the Bal Vikas Shishu Welfare Trust have raised Mrityunjay as one of their own, even as hopes of him finding a home are diminishing by the day, although he is on the national list for adoptions. No-one wants to adopt a differently abled child, they say. “He grows restless within an hour of us putting him to sleep or feeding him. Every night, he suddenly starts crying. We are very attached to him and will do everything to comfort him,” said Bharati Shinde, astaffer at Bal Vikas.
 
 The shelter trustees roped in therapists in a bid to provide Mrityunjay with a better quality of life. “There was a physiotherapist from Denmark, on a visit to Mumbai, who worked wonders in terms of his health. Mrityunjay developed such a bonding with her that he started recognising her touch. She visited him three months ago and he was able to recognise her touch,” the trustee, Panigrahi, said.
 
 The shelter officials are looking to hire another physiotherapist, hoping Mrityunjay’s condition will improve. It’s been a story of hope for the last 10 years, and giving up was never an option.
 
 
