Ketan Mehta, one of India’s leading film directors has sent a legal notice to actress  , for conniving with Producer   and others to hijack the most ambitious film project of his life and a labour of love for over ten years, 'Rani of Jhansi - The Warrior Queen', based on the life of the Rani Lakshmibai of Jhansi, one of the greatest leaders of the Indian rebellion of 1857, also known as the first war of Indian independence.
 
 Mehta is the maker of international award winning films like 'Mirch Masala', 'Sardar' (on the life of Sardar Patel), 'Maya Memsaab', 'Mangal Pandey - The Rising' and most recently 'Manjhi- The Mountain Man'. He was the Chairman of the jury for selecting the Indian entry for Oscar awards last year and has been a director on the board of National Film Development Corporation. For an experienced maker like Mehta who has worked with stalwarts like  ,  ,  , Nazawuddin Siddiqui & stars like Shah Rukh Khan &  , this sort of brazen usurping of his labour of love is the worst experience of his 30 year long career.
  
  
  
  had approached Kangana to play the role of Rani Lakshmibai of Jhansi in his film in June 2015. Kangana had readily agreed and publicly committed to doing the project with Ketan through her various interviews in Media and further was in discussions with him since 2015 for the same. Mehta had patiently waited for over one and a half years for her to do the film and in the interim had shared multiple drafts of the script and all the research material on the subject collected over years with her, and also brought in an international co-producer on board for the project. 
  
 So he was shocked to know through media that Kangana had announced another film titled 'Manikarnika – the queen of Jhansi' with another producer and director. Kangana being privy to all the documents and research material along with the script shared with her, has knowingly committed the act of trying to hijack the project in collusion with Producer Kamal Jain & others.
  
 A source close to Mehta said, "This is a brazen act of hijacking a film project. This subject has been Ketan’s labour of love for over ten years & he believes that Rani of Jhansi is a great subject which can travel across the world. I know he has worked very hard to develop the entire project and has invested lots of time, energy and money in it. The act is a criminal breach of trust and a completely unethical attempt at stealing someone’s fully developed film project.”
 
  
  
 
