KOLKATA: The state is seeking legal opinion on whether its decision to de-notify state highways after the Supreme Court ban can be construed as contempt of court.

 Weeks before the apex court passed the order last Friday banning the sale of   within 500 metres of state and national highways, the state government had de-notified portions of the EM Bypass from the   list. The Bypass is dotted with star hotels, and this move allows these hotels to continue serving liquor. While this de-notification had been easy, since the court had not passed the order yet, the state — which depends a lot on liquor sales revenue — wants to make sure there is no legal complication in de-notifying more highways, now that the order has been passed.
 
 “De-notification of state highways can be a possible solution. But this is fraught with legalities,” said a senior officer. “On Friday, when the apex court passed the order, these were state highways and fell within the order’s ambit. Hence, the legal consultations,” he reasoned. Law minister Moloy Ghatak refused to comment.
 
 A former state advocate-general said: “The apex court’s order elaborately deals with the state highways whose characters are markedly different from national highways. The attorney-general has also made elaborate submissions on it. The court overruled it. In this backdrop, it makes such appeals untenable. Also the apex court order was made after it re-evaluated its own order in December 2016, given the objections filed by eight states. So, there appears very little scope of legal review on the same arguments.”
 
 The Supreme Court order’s only reprieve — where the 500-metre rule has been relaxed to 220 metres — is for towns with less than a population of 20,000. The reprieve doesn’t help   much. For example, even Kolaghat, the city’s favorite weekend getaway, has a population of 25,191 according to the 2011 Census. Significantly, 2,140 shops on the highways account for Rs 1,000 crore revenue to the state’s exchequer.
 
 “There is already a major loss of livelihood because of this closure. At least 10,000 direct employees have lost jobs. We urge both the state and central government to de-notify certain roads which, thanks to urban sprawl, have lost the character of highways,” said P Saha, secretary, West Bengal Excise Licensee Association.
 
 Another option the state may explore is seek more time to implement the order. The state is also thinking of relocating some of these outlets 500 metres away from the highways.
 
 Excise licence holders (bars, restaurants, hotels and liquor shops), now forced to down their shutters, said Bengal should have followed the Uttar Pradesh and Chandigarh model. In these two states, sources claimed, many state highways were converted into district roads before the order. In Bengal, only two roads were de-notified from state highways to urban roads: apart from the Bypass, only VIP Road.
 
 According to sources, the impact is the most on State   (SH)-9 from Bankura to Nayagram; SH-10 from Malda to Hili; SH-11 from   to Ranaghat; SH-11A from Raghunathgunj to Bhagawangola; SH-3 from Krishnanagar to Gosaba; SH-12 from Siliguri to Alipurduar; and SH-13 from Palshit to Memari. The other high-concentration zones are Jessore Road, Grand Trunk Road, National Highway 34, National Highway-6 and Diamond Harbour Road.
 
 Joint teams of excise department officials and police personnel have started implementing the court order. “We will comply with the apex court’s orders,” said a senior state excise department official.
 
 On Sunday, many of the shops along the state and national highways were found with shutters down.
 
 The state is also thinking of relocating some of these outlets 500 metres away from the highways. But in many cases, there is hardly any space available for this push-back. In some cases, an outlet, if taken 500 metres from the highway, will be right in the middle of a village. This would enrage villagers. In many cases, the relocation is impossible as the new location is falling within 1000 metres of a school, college or places of worship.
 
