The person who the police say pro grammed the chips that rig pet rol pumps, and the person who supplied those chips across the country, mainly to UP, have been arrested from Thane and Pune in a joint operation by the Thane police and the   (STF).

  (47) and Avinash Naik (37) are suspected to have been involved in the racket for a decade. They helped unscrupulous petrol pump owners cheat customers by dispensing lower quantities of fuel than ordered. “It is a major breakthrough,“ said Thane police commissioner Param Bir Singh. He has not ruled out the possibility of petrol pumps in Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) being rigged.
 
 Shetye is a highly qualified engineer. An electronics and physics MSc, he owns a workshop, Micro CKT, in Dombivli. Naik, a smart technician, works with a Punebased company and is the pro prietor of a security systems and home automation firm.The duo has no criminal record. The police believe they are the most crucial parts of a multi-link chain that is used to operate the racket, suspected to be nationwide in scope.
 
 A source said each chip initially cost Rs 3,000, and after Shetye's reprogramming, would be sold for Rs 10,000 to agents connected with petrol pump operators.
 
 Last month, over two dozen persons were arrested after the   raided a number of petrol pumps in that state (on April 27) and found them tampered. A case was registered at the capital, Lucknow. “Upon deep interrogation, the STF found that the main suppliers of the gadgets were Shetye and Naik. So, they approached the Thane police, who aided them to nab the duo,“ Singh said.
 
 Naik was arrested from his Pune home and Shetye from his Dombivli residence on Sunday evening. Upon searching their homes, the police found a huge number of the relevant electronic devices: finished and semi-finished chips, parts of petrol pump machinery , and remote controls. The seized material includes 110 microchips, 177 remote controls and one oscilloscope (see graphic for full list). “The STF is investigat ing all the uses of the seized devices,“ Singh said. The Thane police team was led by senior inspector Nitin Thakare.
 
 There are clear indications that the duo was involved in the chips' manufacture, and later installation at petrol pumps, said an officer. On whether consumers in MMR should be wary , Singh said, “There is a high likelihood that petrol pumps here are rigged. We are investigating.“
 
 An UP STF official said, “Shetye and Naik's chip would help a petrol pump draw an illegal profit of at least Rs 14 lakh a month. The chip would reduce a fuel dispensing unit's output by 510%, or perhaps more, depending on how much pump operators were intent on cheating customers. Typically , if someone were to order a litre of petrol, he o she would end up with 940 ml or less.“
 
 
 
 
 Electronic fuel dispensing machines are regarded as more accurate than those that are analogue.The fact that unscrupulous dealers using electronic bugs could manipulate the pulse rate of dispensers, and thereby the flow of fuel, exposes serious flaws in automation at petrol pumps.This is yet another wake-up call for oil companies, which need to invest in better technologies to safeguard their supply chain, reputation and consumers against fraud.
 
