BAREILLY: After a few   in at least   and started supporting candidates of other parties to harm BJP’s own aspirants, the party’s local unit has started the process of identifying them. Party leaders said that a few disgruntled candidates who were denied tickets are now lending their support to contenders of rival parties. Disciplinary action will be taken against them before the elections, said state leaders.
 
  “We are keeping a tab on some leaders who have been trying to harm our own candidates for the state assembly elections. Though few of them had earlier announced that they will contest polls as independents, many did not file nomination papers. We later learnt that they are officially part of BJP but have been influencing supporters to vote for candidates of other parties,” said Ravindra Rathore, BJP district president.
  
  Rathore also said that they are trying to make these ‘rebels’ understand that they should work for the party. “I will send a report to the BJP high command about them. Disciplinary action will be taken accordingly,” he said.
  
  Rebellion in the local unit of the BJP started soon after the party disclosed its candidates’ list. In Nawabgunj, BJP leader MP Arya who was denied tickets have openly asked supporters to vote for   (SP) candidate  . “I will campaign for Gangwar and want my supporters to cast their votes in favour of the SP. Though I have not left the BJP, I am supporting SP candidates because I was hurt after being denied ticket by the BJP,” Arya said.
  
  Incidentally, BJP had fielded Arya from Nawabganj for the assembly polls in 2007 and 2012. He lost both times. The party, this time, has given ticket to Kesar Singh, who had joined BJP in September last year after he was expelled from the   (BSP).
  
  Similarly, aspirants who were denied tickets in five other assembly constituencies — Nawabganj, Bhojipura, Meerganj, Bithri Chainpur and Faridpur — came together under the ‘Sangarsh Samiti’ to take on BJP’s official candidates. Even as few of these aspirants had earlier claimed that they will contest polls independently, sources said that they are now lending their support to other “strong contenders” from other parties.
