NEW DELHI: As the world tries to adjust to US president Donald  , India’s foreign secretary   has cautioned that rather that demonising the new American leader it might be more useful to understand his politics and its implications. “Don’t demonise Trump, analyse Trump. He represents a thought process. 

 It’s not a momentary expression,”   said at the Gateway House’s Geo-economic Dialogue in Mumbai. The foreign secretary’s comments are an interesting caution given the popular trend of deriding Trump’s decisions as impulsive and social media driven even though he is determined to make good his campaign talk on security and trade.
 
 The foreign secretary seems to reflect PM Narendra Modi’s thinking when the PM had observed to a group of senior parliamentarians that India will need to work out its equations and observed that Trump was seen as an “outsider” just as he was in Delhi. 
 
 Addressing the problem that Indian IT companies are apprehensive about, Jaishankar said Trump’s action would probably focus on companies who exploited tax loopholes.
 
 Indian companies had less to worry about because they not only created additional value, they were on the right side of both tax compliance and jobs.
 
 Keeping a steady line on Pakistan, Jaishankar said Pakistan needed to shut down its terror factory, and that there was growing global concern about Pakistan. “The thinking on Pakistan is necessarily security centric because the fact is we can live in a situation of very little threat but not in a situation of terrorism on and off, which will be the case as long as the factory keeps running,” he said. “Terrorism in the past was seen as our problem but now it’s a bigger problem. There is today international concern (on terrorism),” he said.
 
 Other countries have been taking a more serious view of Pakistan and its terrorism infrastructure he said. “Western countries may not be open about Pakistan and terrorism problem but they have concerns. The issue really here is whether Pakistan is willing to take fundamental steps. They need to shut down terrorism factory,” he said.
 
 India, he said, had not given up on  , but since it is “stuck” India was looking at other avenues of regional cooperation and integration. BBIN and Bimstec are new sub-regional groupings that India has focused on. “We haven’t given up on Saarc. We can’t and we shouldn’t,” India’s top diplomat said.
 
 Jaishankar said, the time had come for India to play a larger role in the global stage.
 
 Giving the example of the Paris climate agreement, he said India played a leading role and this multilateral engagement, which was not merely good “for branding purposes but also works in India’s interest”. “We are approaching multipolarity. Everyone is playing everybody,” he said.
 
 When big powers were retreating, it gives India and opportunity to carve out a bigger space for itself, the foreign secretary said. “At a time when horizons of a lot of major countries are getting narrower...If the major (countries) are pulling back there is a space out there and it is in our interest to use that space.
 
 In my view, we should be looking at more powered position in international forum,” he said.
 
