RANCHI:   is a man of few words. Reticent by nature, he prefers to let his bat, or the big gloves, do all the talking.

 It was no different on an overcast Sunday here as the wicketkeeper-batsman, in tandem with  , wore out the Australian bowlers while carving out a fine century, his third in Tests.
 
 Saha tackled the pacers by swaying out of line of short-pitched deliveries and driving anything pitched up, while the spinners were rendered redundant by his superb use of feet. "Pujara has so much patience. He routinely scores 200-300 runs in domestic cricket. He showed great patience here too. As wickets were falling at the other end, he decided to curtail his shots and have a long partnership with me," said Saha.
 
 He praised the Saurashtra batsman, who registered his third double century in Test cricket, for guiding him throughout the partnership. "Puji just told me to build my innings slowly. He had a positive mindset and his advice was to back my strengths," stated Saha.
 
 Not known to be an impulsive hooker or puller of the ball, Saha displayed maturity in dealing with the short balls from   and  . "I practise against short-pitched bowling in the nets under our batting coach and Anil (Kumble) bhai," said the wicketkeeper.
 
 Terming his third Test ton as one of his best knocks, Saha added, "I haven't really changed anything in my batting... I am simply backing myself more now."
 
 Asked if he and Pujara had entertained the idea of remaining unbeaten till the end of the day's play, Saha replied in the affirmative. "Yes we thought of it. The way Pujara was batting, it didn't seem we would lose a wicket. Both of us had batted well in the Irani Trophy also when we posted an unbeaten 316-run partnership in the second innings. That was playing on our minds. Pujara backed me to play my shots and told me to be positive," Saha revealed.
 
 With Australia already two down in their second essay, Saha felt the Indian bowlers will be effective on the fifth-day pitch. "The ball is turning, some are keeping low. One ball from Jadeja turned from the rough and clean bowled (David) Warner while in (Nathan) Lyon's case, the ball turned a shade after pitching in line with the off stump."
 
 Asked about their verbal duel with Hazlewood, Saha said, " A little bit of banter always goes on. Pujara was telling him to 'look at the scoreboard'. I just told him, 'go back and bowl'... nothing more than that."
 
