NAGPUR: Several students of second semester   (BCom) were in for a shocking surprise on Friday when they found the   distributed to them 10 minutes late than other examination halls at   due to shortage. 

 Ironically, the authorities concerned, despite being at fault, did not give them additional time to compensate the delay and even refused to accept their written complaint because the   was closed by the time the examination was over on Friday evening.
 
 College principal Kiran Kariya, however, denied any such incident being reported by the officer in charge. “We have clear directions from the university to give additional time in case of delays because of any technical issue. Question papers are downloaded online and sometimes they take time. It is not a new thing. The online process started from winter 2016 and many similar issues like the photocopier machine heating up have been cropping up. But, we never let such issues take a toll on students.”
 
 On Saturday, some BCom (Hindi) second semester students had approached TOI with the complaints. They said they were made to wait for about 10 minutes as questions papers fell short when the exam started at 2.30pm, while rest of the examinees in the hall started writing their papers. At the end, the invigilator snatched away answersheets without giving any extra time, they complained.
 
 “Probably, the students may have argued with the invigilator. If the officer in charge didn’t heed them, they should have come to me. They can still approach me and I will summon the officials concerned to sort out the matter. Our college has always been supportive to students but sometimes students tend to hide facts by telling only half the story,” Kariya said.
 
 Pro-vice chancellor Pramod Yeole said, “After introduction of online delivery, it is impossible that there can be a shortage and leakage of question papers. They are emailed to centres a day before. The colleges know in advance the exact number of prints to be taken. Besides, there are standing instructions to give additional time in case of delays.”
 
 On what action could be taken if complaints are found genuine, Yeole said, “Let the students come forward and file complaint. Generally, if complaints are found to be true, showcause notice is issued followed by recommendation to the   for inquiry.”
 
