Chandigarh: The Punjab and Haryana high court on Tuesday ordered a CBI probe into the suicide of assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Mahavir Singh of Gurgaon police who had allegedly ended his life by consuming poison in April 2016.

 The development is significant as the matter pertains to the alleged involvement of 10 officials of Haryana police who were allegedly pressuring the victim’s widow to enter into a compromise in lieu of money.
 
 Justice Kuldip Singh passed these orders while allowing a petition filed by Mahavir’s widow Chanchal Devi, a resident of Sagarpur in Faridabad district. She had sought directions for CBI investigation in the case related to abetment to suicide of her husband, registered on May 2, 2016 at Ballabhgarh police station in Faridabad.
 
 The petitioner had referred to the suicide note left by her husband in which specific allegations were levelled against several police officials, including high-ranking cops.
 
 According to the petitioner, her husband ASI Mahavir was posted in Gurgaon City police station and had allegedly committed suicide by consuming poison in his village on April 28, 2016. Next day, the family found his suicide note in which he had alleged harassment by several police officials and extortion of money from him to save him from disciplinary action.
 
 The six-page note alleged that he was implicated by a station house officer (SHO) in a robbery case and the deputy superintendent of police (vigilance) had sought a bribe to acquit him. He had allegedly stated that clerks in the accounts department had also asked for bribes. It was further mentioned in the note that deceased had to sell his land to pay off a few policemen but could not meet their demands any more.
 
 On basis of the complaint received from Chanchal Devi, an FIR was registered against 10 cops, including an Indian Police Services (IPS) officer and former deputy commissioner of police of Gurgaon, a DSP, inspectors, an ASI, a ‘munshi’ and constables.
 
 In July 2016, deceased’s wife had approached the HC seeking CBI probe on the grounds that she was being pressurized by these cops to enter into a compromise. The petitioner also sought directions for compensation to the family.
 
 
