PUNE: The   in Pune and   might extend to Pune metropolitan region to connect towns and villages to the twin cities.

 The authorities believe that the metro route’s extension will help in development of satellite nodes that will reduce population pressure on the twin cities.
 
 Pune divisional commissioner   has called for extension of 7-km route on both Vanaz to Ramwadi and Swargate to Pimpri routes under the Pune metro project.
 
 Dalvi has suggested that the Vanaz to Ramwadi metro be extended to Wagholi and PCMC to Swargate route be extended to Nigdi–Bhakti Shakti chowk.
 
 “People can alight at Wagholi or   chowk and go to their work places in Ranjangaon or Chakan or MIDC areas. This will make the metro project more viable and feasible. This has been a long-standing demand from the public. I have suggested that MahaMetro should implement this suggestion in the larger interest of the people and make the project economically viable,” said Dalvi.
 
 He further added that when the metro project was readied in 2008, Pune hardly saw any growth beyond Chandannagar. This has changed drastically and with people covering huge distances through other modes of transport, they can consider extension of the route. "They had considered the same in phase II of the project. I have suggested that the same should be considered in phase I of the project too,” said Dalvi.
 
 Considering the growing population and lack of adequate infrastructure in the city, the state government is planning to apply the Mumbai model in Pune, where people travel to the city to work and return home to satellite nodes and townships.
 
 Former state urban secretary T.C. Benjamin told TOI that during his tenure he had suggested extension of the metro network. 
 
 "The purpose of the metro is to help people travel and reach their work destinations. From the time of planning and execution the city has witnessed a lot of changes and the routes should be extended accordingly. It will only make the routes more feasible for people as these points will help take people from the city areas to the fringe areas or work places, thus reducing congestion on the roads within the city,'' stated Benjamin.
 
