Pimpri Chinchwad:   city   will take stringent action against inebriated   on Saturday and Sunday, when thousands of   are expected to throng the  .

 Saturday is ‘Gatari Amavasya’, a day before the beginning of the month of Shravan, when people generally abstain from eating non-veg food or consuming alcohol. As such, police expect revellers to either come drunk or drink themselves silly on the day.
 
 Speaking to TOI, police inspector Chandrakant Jadhav of the Lonavla city police station said, “We will set up check posts at the entry points to Lonavla to ascertain whether people entering the city have consumed alcohol or are carrying alcohol with them. The check posts will be at five spots, namely Kumar Chowk, Ryewood Chowk, Bhushi dam and Khandala and Valvan exits on the highway. Policemen manning these check posts will be provided breath analysers.”
 
 He said that if people are found drunk or carrying alcohol, complaints will be lodged against them under the Prohibition Act. “We will also take strict action against revellers who create trouble. This weekend, 220 policemen from the district will be deployed to handle the huge rush,” he said.
 
 Police have banned the entry of tourists and vehicles into Lonavla town after 3pm on weekends to prevent traffic congestion on narrow roads.
 
 But Surekha Jadhav, president of Lonavla Municipal Council, expressed displeasure over the move, saying such measures were affecting the town’s economy. “The ban on traffic movement is necessary to enable revellers to leave the city by 9pm.” He added, “People come with their families. Presence of so many tourists at night can lead to untoward incidents.”
 
 The most favourite activity of tourists visiting Lonavla is to sit or stand on the steps when the Bhushi dam overflows. But the police banned such activity for a few hours from 11am last Saturday as the pressure of overflowing water was huge and there was a danger to tourists.
 
 “We will ban entry of tourists on steps of Bhushi dam only it we feel there is danger to the lives and safety of tourists,” said Jadhav when asked whether similar ban may be in place this week.
 
 Meanwhile, LMC has decided to set up temporary toilet blocks with eights seats four seats each for men and women at Bhushi dam for the convenience of tourists.
 
 
