
 
  
 
  
  Trump will focus very much on the domestic market and protectionism favouring the US. From that point of view, one could expect a better outlook for the US. But all things being equal, a lot of his policies are going to take time to implement. I am not sure that the US markets will necessarily perform the best. One still has to be a bit cautious about that and also at some stage, one is also likely to see weakness in the US dollar. If you look more broadly at global EMs, a lot of the positives remain pretty much unchanged.The longterm prospects for many of them are attractive.
  
  
 
  
  It is one of our most overweight markets. From an economic point of view there is still lots to go for India.We don't know whether this year is going to be a good year for India compared to other markets. For us, we are investing in Indian companies not necessarily the economy and we see decent growth coming from those over the next five to 10 years. It is certainly not the cheapest of emerging markets but it is one of the higher quality ones as far as individual   are concerned.
  
  
 
  
  In India, a lot comes down to politics and reforms. Reforms have always been a slightly stop-go situation with India. Under Modi, things have got more dynamic. We have got some elections coming up which could certainly swing sentiments strongly. It doesn't seem very clear from the polls as to which way it is going. It will be a clear test.
  
  
 
  
  It certainly has had an impact on businesses and the economy but it is more like a hiccup than anything long-term or structural. It has caused the economy to be a little weaker than we were expecting.There will be very minor impact going ahead and the current quarter should see the end of that.
  
  
 
  
  It will have consequences. We are not quite sure what they are going to be but again, it is one of those things that have a short-term hiccup effect on the administration. In the longer term, GST is a good thing.
  
  
 
  
  The actual business is highly competitive and now you got the Trump effect. To be fair, the business always has changed and they are adapting.Given their balance sheets and net cash positions, increased dividends or share buybacks are sensible thing to be doing. The industry has re-rated downwards and is looking ahead at far less dynamic growth than it was 10 years ago obviously. We expect lower returns than the past.
  
  
 
  
  The management was distracted and having to deal with things when ideally things should be running smoothly, so any such things are a negative but we haven't sold our holding as a result of what's going on.It certainly makes you reflect more.For decades,   was a stunning example of good governance and as indeed was Infosys. Both companies have been models in many ways and it is always sad to see the model become all too human.
  
  
 
  
  In the short term, it has benefited from the sentiment and the reality of no hikes. We will watch closely how well they are developing, like their other businesses, some of which are relatively young businesses in the stable.
  
  
 
  
  It is impossible to argue that some of these private banks such as   are cheap from a ratings point of view. But again the quality compared to the cheaper state-run banks is quite way ahead. On balance, we will remain with the quality. We feel a lot more comfortable with the business model and the professionalism of private banks. In the long-term, they are a good proxy on India's growth. 
