JALANDHAR: Even though the Congress didn’t officially announced its candidate from Jalandhar Cantt constituency, former hockey captain Pargat Singh made it clear in the evening on Sunday that he was going to get the party ticket. Meanwhile, another ticket contender Jagbir Brar has called a meeting of his supporters on Monday at village Pholriwal to “consult” his supporters about the next move.

 While his supporters and several Congress workers reached Pargat’s house to extend him their best wishes and he also posted the pictures of his garlanding by his supporters, the mood was somber in Brar’s camp.
 
 Sources said that both the leaders were conveyed by their respective mentors in the Congress about the ticket to Pargat. It coincided with Navjot Singh Sidhu’s joining the Congress in Delhi. Sidhu had delayed his joining while putting the condition that Pargat’s name be cleared from Jalandhar Cantt seat even though   president Captain Amarinder Singh lobbied for Brar’s name till the end.
 
 Brar’s camp has blamed Sidhu was batting for Pargat and finally making the Congress high command to agree on Pargat’s name. Both Pargat and Brar had expressed their unwillingness to Nakodar constituency, which was also kept vacant to adjust one of the two leaders.
 
 Sources in Brar’s camp revealed that latter was mulling to contest as an independent candidate. The meeting has been scheduled at Pholriwal, which is a stronghold of former zila parishad member and former MP Mohinder Singh Kaypee’s close confidante Sukha Pholriwal. Latter had been siding with Brar and had opposed Pargat’s candidature from the seat. Kaypee is now party candidate from Adampur while the   seat he represented in the past has been given to sitting municipal councillor Sushil Rinku.
 
 It was considered one of the best seats for the Congress but the strong contention between Pargat and Brar may make it a tough seat for the party nominee especially when AAP and SAD candidates have already covered most part of the constituency in campaigning.
 
