KOLKATA: It was past 10pm when the phone rang at the   of  . The call was brisk and to the point. Nandy was the pilot of the   that flew to Thailand on Sunday afternoon after refuelling in Kolkata and had to make an emergency landing off Bangkok. The condition of Nandy was serious, the caller informed. On Monday night, external affairs minister   tweeted about his death in the crash-landing. 

 A resident of Kharda and a student of Don Bosco, Liluah, Nandy's journey ended after he tried to make an emergency landing of the air ambulance near Nakhon Pathom airport, around 50km from Bangkok. While passengers in the air ambulance were rescued, Nandy's condition was reportedly very critical. He was seen to be making some hand gestures while being taken to a local hospital.
 
 "When he joined the Indian Air Force, we were prepared to receive any such news as it could happen any day. When he went to Kargil war, it was more so. When the news finally came, it was hard to believe," said Subhagata Basu, nephew of Nandy. "Since then, each minute seemed like a mountain for us. We prayed so that he recovers soon, but his injuries and trauma were too severe," he said.
 
 Nandy, who did his graduation from Jaipur, was commissioned into IAF in 1997. During his career with the air force, he had travelled across the country before joining Surya Kiran. "As a student, he had told his teacher he wanted to become a pilot. Many of us have changed our childhood ambitions, but he stuck to his goal," Basu said.
 
 On Sunday, the flight took off from Delhi at 8.42am and stopped for a while at Kolkata and then headed to Thailand. Late in the afternoon, it made an emergency landing at Nakhon Pathom airport following a glitch mid-air. "He was a fine pilot and was part of the IAF's Aerobatics demonstration team SKAT. During his stint with the Surya Kiran, he had taken part in several air shows in India and abroad," said Basu.
 
 An avid biker and a mountaineer, Nandy's Facebook page is splashed with photographs of adventure sports. "He was a qualified instructor of warbirds like MIG 21. While he faced the unknown every moment, he was in love with life and that always showed on his face,' recalled Basu. Nandy's body is likely to reach Delhi by Wednesday morning.
 
 
