JAIPUR: The state government has defended its decision to order transfer of “charagah” (pasture) lands in urban limits to the municipalities concerned, so that their land-use could be changed to permit activities like housing projects on these lands. The revenue department issued a notification in this regard on December 8, 2016 and, subsequently, orders were issued to all district collectors on December 26, 2016 to ensure compliance.

 The matter was raised in the state assembly by independent legislator   on Friday. Beniwal alleged that the nature of pasture lands was being converted primarily to benefit the mining mafia, especially those mining bajri illegally.
 
 Urban development and housing (UDH) minister   refuted the allegation and said the land was needed for projects like   and  . “With growing urbanisation, the housing needs are increasing in municipal areas. Therefore, there is a continuous requirement of developing housing schemes on government lands located in municipal areas,” Kriplani told the house during zero hour.
 
 The minister said the district collectors have been told to immediately transfer all types of government and ‘charagah’ lands located in urban limits to the municipalities concerned. “The letter written to all district collectors in this regard on December 26, 2016 is proper,” Kriplani said, adding that as per section-68 of the Rajasthan Municipalities Act, 2009, all kinds of government lands in municipal areas are inherent in the municipalities concerned.
 
 “Anyways, the charagah lands in municipal areas are not used as pastures because the Municipalities Act that is effective in these areas does not permit cattle to be left to graze at public places/lands,” the minister reasoned. Kriplani argued that if the ‘charagah’ and government land located in urban limits in not recorded in the municipalities, it leads to hindrances in taking effective action against encroachers.
 
 The UDH minister informed the house that the revenue department through its notification dated December 8, 2016 ordered that “all government land that is located in areas of Jaipur Development Authority, Jodhpur Development Authority, Urban Improvement Trusts and all municipalities, shall be transferred to these bodies.”
 
 Later in the day, Congress state president   issued a statement saying changing the land-use of pasture land is prohibited under the tenancy Act. “Tenancy Act allows transfer of ‘charagah’ land to municipalities but it does not allow change in its use for any other purpose,” Pilot said. He mentioned about the Rajasthan high court’s recent order directing the state government to maintain sanctity of master plans. Pilot said converting ‘charagah’ land into any other land would go against the high court order’s objective.
 
