HYDERABAD: Chief minister  's desire to acquire the   for setting up the new Secretariat will not only wipe out the over 150-year-old sports history of the city in one stroke but also shatter the dreams of thousands of aspiring sportspersons. Instead of giving a fillip to sports, the move will kill whatever little sporting activities are still being conducted in  , said aghast sportspersons. 

 The Gymkhana may be more or less synonymous with cricket but there are nearly a dozen other sports that also claim this hallowed turf as their home.
 
 Every day, hundreds of youngsters make a beeline to Gymkhana to hone their skills in football, hockey, basketball, volleyball, handball, tennis, roller-skating, boxing, athletics, handball and softball. "How can the government think of taking over the Gymkhana? It has a rich sporting legacy and that can't be wiped out just because the government wants to put up some buildings there," said PR Man Singh, former   (HCA) secretary and the manager of the 1983 World Cup winning Indian team.
 
 "It has been the cradle of Hyderabad cricket. All those cricketers from the city that have gone on to play for the country, have practised at these grounds. Apart from Hyderabadi players, top players of the country too have graced this ground when playing in the Moin Ud Dowlah Gold Cup, which at one time had the status of a First Class tournament," he said.
 
 Apart from cricket, other sports to be badly hit will be basketball and roller-skating as the two basketball courts at the Gymkhana are the only good ones in the entire area. "Apart from the YMCA court - which has been hit by road widening - there is no other good court in the area. The GHMC has two courts in   but they are not in good shape. So where do basketball players go?" questioned Norman Isaac, secretary of the Telangana State Basketball Association.
 
 "We've have been denied a court at the LB Stadium and if this too goes, the players will not have a place left to practice. Neither the government nor the GHMC has developed more courts in the city. The only good ones are at the Victory Playground. The sport will die a slow death if this move goes through," he said.
 
 "In the entire Secunderabad area, the only place where we have a skating rink is the Gymkhana. In fact, this June we will complete a year. Where will the kids go? Even if the government gives land somewhere on the outskirts, how can the kids travel such long distances? We have around 200 young children turning up every day for practice," said Anup Yama, international roller-skating champion and Arjuna Awardee. 
 
 Today, football and hockey are virtually non-existent in the city, which once produced Olympians in both sports. These grounds not only keep sports alive but also the legacy of the former greats.
 
 Distraught sportspersons are praying the government desists from its proposed move so Hyderabad can continue to nuture its future champions on these hallowed grounds.
 
