MUMBAI: A cadaver donation that could have saved six lives was, on Wednesday, thwarted by a senior official of Nerul police, who allegedly dissuaded the family from donating their   son’s organs. The incident has come as a grim reminder that awareness about   is still lacking among key stakeholders.

  in   that bore the brunt of the police officer’s ignorance has written to the Directorate of Health Services and the  , highlighting the wasted opportunity to save the lives of four end-stage kidney, liver and heart failure patients. Currently, over 3,200 people are waiting for a kidney and nearly 200 for liver in the city. 
 
 The donor, Sachin Yamgar, a 19-year-old newspaper delivery boy, had rammed into a stationary truck in Navi Mumbai on Monday while riding a bike. The youngster, who hailed from a family of farm labourers in Sangli, was taken to DY Patil Hospital and Terna Medical College, before being shifted to Apollo on Tuesday. 
 
 The same day, as the doctors learnt he was brain dead, the hospital’s transplant coordination team began counselling his family about donating his organs. In the meantime, families of two potential kidney and one liver recipient were informed about the development. The likely liver recipient, who lived near Nagpur, was asked to leave for Nerul immediately. 
 
 Yamgar’s family consented to donate his kidneys, liver, heart, skin and corneas. Things however took an unexpected turn when his father and a hospital official went to the police station to obtain an NOC.
 
 “The police official started discouraging the father from going ahead with the donation. He told the father that the hospital would earn money from it but the family would gain nothing. He also told the father that his son was breathing so how could his organs be removed. Soon, the father withdrew his consent,” said a hospital source.
 
 Dr Darius Mirza, head of Apollo’s transplant programme, said, “It is unfortunate that four people have lost the chance to undergo a lifesaving surgery. It’s a huge setback for the person who travelled over 14 hours and couldn’t undergo the liver transplant.” The hospital is likely to meet police brass on Thursday. DCP (Zone 1) Sudhakar Pathare said, “The officer will definitely be questioned about his act. The matter will be inquired and appropriate action will be taken.”
 
 (With inputs from George Mendonca)
 
 
