Gundulpet (Chamarajanagar District): As she checked into Harave in a high-end SUV on Wednesday, villagers, specially women, surrounded   and offered her a traditional welcome at   Mutt. 

 She offered prayers at Gaddige and started the padayatra at the village and was led into the three temples by village leaders. What connects the villagers, mainly the women to her, is the down-to-earth nature of the 56-year-old political novice. While few rushed to greet her, others waved at her from a distance. Draped in a blue saree, Geetha greeted them with folded hands.
 
 This International Women’s Day was special for Geetha, as she chose to connect with the people by touring the Gundulpet constituency, meeting women and raising their issues. As she toured Harave on Mysuru-Chamarajanagar border, 70 kms from Mysuru, Geetha mingled with women and told them that she is keen to focus and resolve their issues on a priority basis.
 
 With a doctorate from a reputed university, Geetha’s educational qualifications are an added advantage to her profile. “She is an educated woman, a poet and can present views on women’s issues in the assembly. She is no pushover like some others who are elected to the panchayats,” said Puttaranga Naik.
 
 Following the death of the former minister on January 3, Geetha took over her husband’s responsibilities.
 
 Harave Anand, chief of farmer’s cell of the  , said Mahadeva Prasad launched his campaign by visiting the Niranjan Gurumallesh mutt. “We are doing the same for madam,” said Anand, who was a batchmate of Prasad at JSS College in Mysuru, said. 
 
 Ahead of the Congress rally on Sunday, where CM Siddaramaiah and KPCC chief G Parameshwara are expected to formally announce her candidature, she toured all the six zilla panchayat constituencies which are attached to Gundulpet assembly segment and is planning to launch tour of gram panchayats. “When it became imperative for me to accept the responsibility, I did with a heavy heart. I was a leader throughout my school days and now, I have taken up this challenge,” she said. 
 
 “My husband never discussed politics at home. But being a writer, I’m aware of the issues that bothers people,” she added. Geetha was born in Mysuru on February 4, 1961 and did her schooling at CFTRI School and Nirmala Convent. Later, she did BA from Maharanis’ Arts College for Women in 1982. A year later, she was married to Mahadeva Prasad. Her father P M Channabasappa was a businessman and headed the Akila Karnataka Veerashiva Mahasabha and was close to the Mysuru royal family. Her mother Saroja is from   in Nanjangud taluk.
 
 She was named Mohan Kumari, but is popular as Geetha Mahadeva Prasad.
 
 “Mahadeva Prasad had not entered politics when we got married. He tried twice to enter the assembly, in 1985 and 1989, but did not succeed. In 1994, he won for the first time and never looked back. He was a gentleman-politician,” she recollected, adding that he is her role model. The former minister was elected to the assembly five times in a row from three different parties.
 
 Geetha made no bones about not knowing the segment like her late husband did. Part of it is the late former minister’s fault. He never took her out while he campaigned, she said smilingly. “But he encouraged me to do what I liked,” she stated. This explains why she did MA in Sociology from the Karnataka State Open University, ten years after her graduation. Some time later, she enrolled for PhD at the University of Mysore, which awarded doctorate to her thesis in 2013. She worked on 104 women achievers, which included personalities like Sudha Murthy, Kiran Mazumdar Shaw and K Nagarathanamma, the first women speaker of Karnataka. 
 
 She has published her doctoral thesis and also brought out three anthologies of poems—‘The Interior’ (English) and ‘Nivedane’ and ‘Taayigagi’ (Kannada). She said writers Chaduranga and L Basavaraju encouraged her to pen her thoughts in Kannada. She has published travelogue ‘Visit to USA’ and plans to publish three other travelogues detailing her experiences in Australia and New Zealand, Europe and China. 
 
 
