The   of the Yashwantrao Chavan Maharashtra Open University ( ) was held on Tuesday on the campus of the university’s headquarters in Gangapur. Over 1.4 lakh students were   at the ceremony.

 Academicians discussed the issue of equivalence for the open university   at the event.
 
 “A degree secured under the Open University (OU) system should be regarded equivalent to one obtained through regular course of study in a full-time course or under the distance education system. Several persons secure OU degrees with the hope that they will be considered for promotion. Many students seek government and private jobs on the basis of this degree. The government should fight for their rights,” academician Vedprakash Mishra, the keynote speaker at the convocation function, said.
 
 Interestingly, over 80% of 1.44 lakh students that graduated on Tuesday are from working class. “Education at the open university is comparatively more competitive than regular courses. The government should make every possible effort to bring recognise this degree,” Mishra said.
 
 Acting YCMOU vice-chancellor   also voiced agreement to this demand, saying distance education is the country’s future. “Distance education is the future. In foreign countries, they rate open university graduates as potential leaders. Over 20% of all UK MBAs are taken through such universities,” he said.
 
 YCMOU registrar Dinesh Bhonde said that the university’s digitisation has brought about a revolution as results for most courses were announced within 30 days. “The process right from application to examination and valuation to declaration of results is completely online at YCMOU. This is the only university in the state to fully go online. Interestingly, the YCMOU has over 7 lakh students enrolled this year, higher than any other university in the state,” Bhonde said.
 
 Guests received a ceremonial welcome at the convocation function. The highest number of degrees conferred was for arts students at 92,184, followed by 11,659 graduates in commerce. The agriculture stream recorded 6,940 graduates and 1,518 passed out from the field of education.
 
