Chandrapur: A day after chief minister   ordered stepping up of security at Surjagarh mine, a host of ministers on Friday conducted the foundation stone laying ceremony of seven highway roads through Gadchiroli to be built at a cost of Rs12,000 crore.

 The CM, along with Union transport minister  , Union minister of state Hansraj Ahir, state forest & finance minister   and Gadhchiroli guardian minister Ambrish Rao Maharaj attended the ceremony. Gadkari also announced approval of Rs200 crore for the construction of ring road for Gadchiroli city.
 
 Earlier, state governor   inaugurated the major bridge connecting Maharashtra with Telangana over river Godavari near Sironcha. Rao and the group of ministers flagged off an MSRTC bus through the bridge as part of formal inauguration.
 
 The 1.62 km-long bridge built at a cost of Rs292 crore will be the direct link for devotees from Maharashtra to Kaleswaram temple located at other side of bridge in Telangana. The foundation stones of two other bridges to be built at Pranhita and Indrawati in the same area were also laid on the occasion.
 
 Addressing a rally in Gadchiroli, Fadnavis said the recent arson at Surjagarh was a hurdle in the development process. Countering the propaganda of left wing extremists that the government is taking away mineral, the CM assured that no mineral will be exported out of Gadchiroli, but utilized in local steel industries.
 
 “The government will see that new steel industries are started in Gadchiroli. The location has also been finalized. The minerals from Gadchiroli will not go outside, but will help locals gain employment,” he said.
 
 Fadnavis also announced that the first-of-its-kind project of establishing   (FIDC) will come up in Gadchiroli. Mungantiwar himself will lead the project in Gadchiroli where pro-environment and agriculture-based industries could be promoted.
 
 Fadnavis said as many as 11,000 farmers in the district will be provided irrigation wells, along with agricultural pumps.
 
 While announcing Rs200 crore for the ring road in Gadchiroli, Gadkari said all the highways and bridges proposed in Gadchiroli will be completed in the next two-and-a-half years. He said the transport ministry will build 2 lakh km of national highways in the country.
 
