Panaji: Directorate of health services ( ) has inherited a few hospital establishments of the Portuguese era besides shares worth crores of rupees and other  , but its officials have been groping in the dark for over a decade to inventorize these assets.

 It is only recently that some steps were taken to take stock of its wealth, but looks like the government intervention has come too late. Several legal disputes have arisen over some of these assets with DHS failing to transfer or prove its ownership in time.
 
 An official speaking on condition of anonymity said, “If the government a la public   had to have those properties transferred in its name immediately after those institutes were taken over in 1977, many a legal hassles could have been avoided.”
 
 The department officials are sure that movable and immovable assets owned by Hospicio in Margao, Leprosy hospital in Macazana and TB Hospital in St Inez, among others, are worth crores of rupees, but confusion prevails due to several factors, especially lack of documents and clarity about the assets owned.
 
 “Most of the properties were given on rent,” said the officer.
 
 The public institutions were run by the Portuguese government and came under the jurisdiction of the health department after liberation.
 
 “These health institutes then were managed under the tutelage of independent societies. Income earned through leasing properties, donations received, as well as income earned though other sources such as shares was utilized for operating the health institutes,” he said.
 
 The hospital establishments like Hospicio in Margao enjoyed goodwill of the public. A few individuals and families had donated large tracts of land with coconut groves, khazan lands and paddy fields and even salt pans in Navelim (Bicholim), Goalim Moula and Goa Velha in Tiswadi and Salcete.
 
 In case of Hospicio, the authorities had leased out properties in 1960s and later on annual rent.
 
 In 2008, the then leader of opposition, Manohar Parrikar had called for an inventory of Hospicio hospital properties stating that it has landed property to the tune of 20 lakh sqm and shares worth lakhs of rupees.
 
 The official said, “Some portion of the land is now claimed by the tenants and thanks to lack of political will, nothing is being done about it. In some cases, lease agreements were never renewed, but that has not stopped tenants from making claims.” 
 
 He said the same holds true of shares. “We don’t know the exact value of shares inherited. It could be anything between Rs 5 crore to Rs 10 crore,” he said.
 
 The DHS surely have claim on inheritance as some companies have either been liquidated or merged while some shares are linked to Pakistani companies.
 
 “We won’t able to do anything about the shares held by Pakistani companies, it being a hostile nation,” he said.
 
 
