AHMEDABAD: The alacrity with which police reacted on Thursday morning, after a shakedown of bootleggers by two persons pretending to be policemen, pointed at a police-bootlegger nexus. Police cordoned off the area and nabbed the two men who had been posing as cops to extort money from the bootleggers. The duo,   and Bhargav Amin, run a fortnightly newspaper published from Dehgam. The two bootleggers, who were carrying a consignment of 30 litres of country liquor from Mahemdavad to Isanpur, were also arrested.

 While police claim they acted on the basis of an anonymous phone call, sources narrate a different version of events. According to police sources, bootleggers   and Ravikumar, both residents of Mahemdavad in Kheda district, were carrying a consignment of about 30 litres of country liquor in an auto to deliver it to a bootlegger in Isanpur.
 
 “When the auto reached Bhairavnath Road in Maninagar, Chauhan and Amin, both residents of Dehgam, intercepted the auto and identified themselves as cops,” said a source. He added, “The duo demanded Rs1 lakh from the bootleggers but settled for Rs36,000.”
 
 A local source said that the bootleggers then allegedly called up their boss. “Their boss became angry as he regularly paid ‘hafta’ (protection money) to the local cops, and he called up the local vahivatdar ( the policeman who collects bribes and protection money from illegal operations in a particular jurisdiction),” he said.
 
 The vahivatdar, who was surprised by the incident, swung into action and determined that the bootleggers had been intercepted by police impersonators, said a source.
 
 “The cops then laid a cordon and caught   who owns a fortnightly newspaper in Dehgam and Bhargav Amin, who runs a mobile phone shop in Dehgam and also works for Chauhan’s newspaper,” said a police source.
 
 However, the cops disputed the sequence of events narrated by sources.
 
 ACP V M Jadeja said that they had received an anonymous call with the caller saying that some policemen were having a dispute with a bootlegger on Bhairavnath Road. “We reached the spot and learnt that the fake policemen had made the bootleggers sit in their car and were moving about to extort money from them. We laid a cordon and nabbed them,” said Jadeja.
 
