Actress   is one of the few actresses in Mollywood who has been able to plug the void in the supporting cast in the industry and also made sure that she leaves her mark with her performances. 

 Be it in her latest release Njandukalude Naattil Oridavela or her upcoming films  , Sherlock Toms, Crossroad or Kuttanpillayude Sivarathri, the artiste says she has tried to be at her versatile best and has taken extra care not to repeat herself.
 Njandukalude Naattil Oridavela had her team up with   again after their successful outing in 1983. “Our pair in 1983 went on to be very popular, so, I was sure that our next time together on screen should also live up to the expectations. In one of his recent interviews, I saw Nivin saying that it’s him who suggested me for this character, while all others were picked by the film’s director Althaf. That made me happy,” says Srinda. 
 
 The actress though explains that she didn’t even want a tinge of her character Susheela from 1983 to reflect in the movie. “People liked Susheela’s antics a lot and they try to find shades of her in every role I do. But I believe that I should never let that happen.” 
 However, one person she tried to get influenced by, on the set of the film was Shanthi Krishna. “Shanthi ma’am’s character in this film is very bold and so, obviously because I play her daughter, I wanted some of it to reflect in my role too. For that, I tried to copy her body language and conduct,” Srinda reveals, adding that she also brought in an IT industry element into it, as that’s where her character is working. “Many of my characters have been homemakers, but not Mary of Njandukal... So, I saw to it that she didn’t walk or talk like them.”
 
 While in Soubin Shahir’s Parava she plays a Kochiite, she will be essaying a character with grey shades in the Biju Menon’s Sherlock Toms. “My character Rekha is Biju ettan’s wife. He calls her sabdarekha. Now you know what she is like,” says Srinda, laughing. The actress admits she is a tad tensed about how the industry will like her in this different avatar. 
 
 Srinda will also be seen as Suraj Venjaramoodu’s daughter in Kuttanpillayude Sivarathri. “I picked the movie as its script reminded me of the yesteryear films like Varavelpu and Pappan Priyappetta Pappan. It had many elements we now miss in movies, like the big families and ammayis. It has a unique subject about something that takes place in a household during Sivarathri. I hope that the film will be a treat to the audience,” she says. 
 
 Srinda, meanwhile, is also trying her hand at dubbing, the latest being for Dileesh Pothan’s Thondimuthalum Driksakshiyum. “I attempted it first in Kammattipaadam after Geetu Mohandas asked me to give my voice for Shaun Romy’s character. Luckily, it was a match. Similarly, in Thondimuthalum… Pothan chettan urged me to be Nimisha’s voice, even though I was reluctant, saying people recognise my voice now. However, I wasn’t tensed and that’s probably why, they came out well,” she signs off.
 
 
