AHMEDABAD : Tears of relief flowed down the cheeks of  , who was illegally confined in Riyadh, as she reached   in Ahmedabad escorted by city cops. Still unable to walk normally, Hafizabanu narrated the horrors she had gone through during the past seven months.

  “They injected me in the leg with some medicine, whenever I tried to escape from their custody. My legs would become numb for several hours”. These were the words of 45-year-old Hafizabanu on her return from Riyadh, where she was confined and tortured by her employer.
 
 In considerable pain, Hafizabanu landed at   early on Sunday morning and was later brought to Ahmedabad by road. The relief of being freed could be seen on her face, as she would often break down putting her head on the shoulder of one of her relatives.
 
 “I was promised a job in a beauty parlour by Rehana Malek of Ahmedabad, and Farooq Mansuri, a placement agent residing in the Dongri area of Mumbai. But they put me as a virtual slave to do  . When I objected and demanded the job they promised, they beat me black and blue,” said Hafizabanu with tears rolling down her cheeks.
 
 Hafizabanu said she once managed to escape, but was caught later and confined to a room in Riyadh for several days without proper food and water.
 
 Meanwhile, women cops including ACP Panna Momaya was shocked to hear from Hafizabanu that there could be other women like her in Riyadh and Saudi Arabia made to work like slaves.
 
 “At present we don’t rule out a possibility regarding attempts to exploit these women sexually. Hafizabanu has said that they also tried different tricks on her too, but could not succeed,” added a top police official.
 
 Meanwhile, cabinet minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama talked to external affairs minister Sushma Swaraj and apprised her of the operation conducted to rescue Hafizabanu.
 
 “We have also urged the ministry of external affairs to trace more such women and girls from Gujarat who could be trapped in Saudi Arabia,” said Chudasama.
 
 The Gujarat government vigorously pursued the case after it was brought to light by a social worker and BJP leader from Hyderabad, T R Sriniwas.
 
