PUNE: The state government has decided to do away with the penalty imposed on   on unauthorised residential flats admeasuring 600sqft or less. 

 Earlier, the civic administration used to collect twice the property tax from such flats.
 
 According to a government resolution, unauthorised properties admeasuring between 601 and 1,000sqft will have to pay 50% more property tax as penalty while those admeasuring more than 1,001 sq ft area will have to pay 100% more tax. 
 
 “People often purchase houses and shops from builders not knowing that they have been illegally constructed. A penalty is charged from the buyers for no fault of theirs,” said J N Patil, a senior official in the state urban development department, on Monday.
 
 “This is good news for flat owners who are suffering because of the mistakes of the builders. The government’s move will safeguard the interest of the common people,” Pune mayor   said, adding that the new rates will be effective from April 1 this year.
 
 Suhas Mapari, head of the PMC’s property tax department, said the move will not have a bearing on the status of the construction. “Payment of property tax does not make a building legal. The illegality of a building is looked into by the building permission department and has no connection with the property tax department. So any discount on property tax will not help in legalising unauthorised buildings,” he said.
 
 Some activists feel that the move may also provide relief to builders who have been deliberately involved in unauthorised construction. “The government should make a provision to punish those who construct unauthorised buildings. The buyers should not be asked to bear the additional penalty; the builders should be penalised,” said  , founder of  , a citizens’ group.
 
 According to civic officials, property tax is collected from around 8.3 lakh properties in the city. Of the total, nearly 1 lakh are commercial properties while there are around 7 lakh residential buildings. Pune also has 29,000 open plots and the remaining 14,000 include commercial, residential and open properties. 
 
 The civic body collects double tax from over 18,000 properties. The   has crossed the Rs 1,000-crore mark in terms of collecting property tax. It has set a target of Rs 1,600 crore for the current financial year, which will end on March 31.
 
