Gandhinagar: The state government told the state assembly that 939 boats seized by Pakistan Maritime Security Agency have been disposed off by their authorities. These boats were kept back by the agencies while the fishermen were sent back to India in batches.

 The issue rocked the assembly with the Congress demanding compensation for the fishermen caught by Pakistani maritime agencies. During question hour, Bharuch MLA Dushyant Patel sought to know how many fishermen were held by the Pakistan Maritime Security Agency in last two years.
 
 Fisheries minister Babu Bokhiria said that in the last two years, a total of 747 fishermen were caught and the majority them were from Veraval, Mangrol Porbandar, Diu and south Gujarat.
 
 He said that last year only 57 boats were released against the 939 seized by Pakistan. He said that so far, 858 fishermen have been released by Pakistan in two years. The minister further said that the government has written 23 letters to the Centre for the release of fishermen from Pakistani jails.
 
 The minister further said that to ensure that fishermen do not leave Indian waters, they have installed global positioning system devices in fishing boats. He said that 11,477 boats have been fitted with GPS devices.
 
 Meanwhile, in another discussion on the motion seeking attention of the government, Congress MLA Punja Vansh said that the BJP government before coming to power had made tall promises of protecting the people of the state, have forgotten them in power. The minister said that on March 1 and March 4, six boats and 88 fishermen were taken into custody by the Pakistan Maritime Security Agency. In reply to why the Centre was not taking a strong stand against Pakistan, he said it was the Congress that was demoralizing the Army and it now wants action. “It will be Congress which will again ask for proof like it did for the surgical strike.”
 
 The minister said that the government was earlier giving Rs 50 a day for those caught by Pakistan and 4,253 fishermen were given Rs 4.59 crore. This was increased to Rs 150 per day in 2009 and since 2009 the government has disbursed Rs 4.24 crore to 1,617 fishermen.
 
 
