NEW DELHI: A 45-year-old heart patient was killed when the   carrying him was rammed by a speeding   near   Gate. The incident took place when the man, Maha Singh, was being taken to a hospital in the early hours of Tuesday. 

 The impact was such that the ambulance, an Eeco, rolled over several times before coming to a halt. The   driver, who was registered with a taxi aggregator, has been arrested. 
 
  said around 3am, Singh was being rushed to GB Pant Hospital by his nephew Naresh Singh and his brother Mansingh. As soon as the ambulance reached Delhi Gate and was taking a turn from the Ambedkar Stadium side towards Daryaganj, the car coming from ITO rammed the left side of the emergency vehicle.
 
 “There was a loud bang, after which the ambulance rolled over three times before coming to a halt. The oxygen cylinder kept beside my uncle fell on his chest and he died almost immediately,” said Naresh. 
 
 The driver of the Eon, later identified as Mahfooz Alam, managed to step out of his vehicle and help Naresh and Mansingh pull out the victim, who appeared to have died by then. Police said that hearing the noise, locals gathered at the spot and informed police. “We arrested Alam for causing death due to negligence,” said Mandeep Singh Randhawa, DCP (central). 
 
 During interrogation, Alam said he had expected the ambulance to cross the spot before he reached there. It was found that the traffic lights at the crossing were put in blinker mode, according to traffic rules, and both the drivers failed to notice each other. 
 
 Naresh said his uncle had been suffering from a heart ailment for the past 10 months. He had complained of uneasiness on Monday night and the family members decided to rush him to GB Pant Hospital, where he had been undergoing treatment. Singh had been staying with his brother and nephew ever since he was diagnosed with the heart problem. “He was single and banked on us for everything. We never expected that such a tragedy would strike us,” said Naresh, a lawyer.
 
