Pune: Tavera and   maker, General Motors ( ) said on Saturday that it had signed a three-year wage settlement with 1,162   at its   near Pune, which will come into effect from April 1, 2017.

 The settlement relates only to the 1,162-odd workers at the Talegaon plant. It does not include contractual workers, who provide allied services like security, canteen staff, and other facilities. The company employs 600 such contractual workers.
 
 The company said, workers will receive an average increase of Rs 22,000 per month in their salary over a period of three years till March 31, 2020. “As per the new agreement, workers will receive 80% of the increased component in the first year, followed by 10% each in the remaining two years,” GM India mentioned in a statement.
 
 Asked if the new wage settlement signals that the company will stay invested in India, vice president of human resources at GM India Pritpal S Kular said, “We are undertaking a global review of our product portfolio and country investments. We will have a clearer picture by the end of the second quarter (end of June 2017).”
 
 The American auto behemoth has put its India investment ‘on hold’, and is reviewing its entire product portfolio in the country, amid plummeting market share in India. GM India, in its hay days, made the Spark, Beat, Sail, Cruze, Enjoy, Tavera, Captiva for the Indian market.
 
 In 2016, the company produced around 75,000 units in India, most of which were exported. Currently, the company is making only the new Beat in the country for exports.
 
 The company will stop producing cars at the Halol facility in Gujarat from April 30, 2017. The company had a manufacturing capacity of 1,27,000 units annually at this facility.
 
 Kular said 300 workers have already moved from the Halol plant to Talegaon, about 100 have applied for voluntary retirement (with a severance package of 100 days’ wages for every year worked). Over 500 workers are yet to decide if they want to move to Talegaon or opt out.”
 
 He said the company is offering the workers from Halol an all-paid, look-see visit to Talegaon to check out the the facilities in and around the unit. However, if the India investments are not clear at this point, it is anybody’s guess how many would actually want to move-in. No worker from the Halol union could be reached for comment.
 
 
