MUMBAI: A special   on Friday convicted and sentenced a 55-year-old watchman of a   highrise to three years’ imprisonment for repeatedly sexually assaulting a six-year-old boy who frequently visited the building to meet his maternal grandparents. The court, while sentencing the father of two, said a message needs to be sent to society.
 
 “It is a matter of common experience, as nowadays such offences against children are on the rise. Even people are not aware that indulging in such acts with a child with sexual intent is a serious offence. It causes serious impact on the psyche of the child which he carries throughout his life,” the court said. (POCSO stands for Protection of Children from Sexual Offences; it is an Act).
  
 The complaint was filed by the boy’s father on January 30 last year. When the father had gone to fetch his wife and son from their Powai home after work, the mother revealed the incident to him. She said that around 3.30pm, when the boy was cycling around the building, the watchman took him to a corner and sexually assaulted him. She said the accused repeated this over and over again, but the frightened boy managed to escape and return home. After the boy confided in his mother, she informed other members of the housing society, who caught hold of the watchman to prevent him from escaping. The boy’s father then took him to the building’s parking lot, where he identified the accused, following which they filed a police complaint.
  
 The accused was handed over to the police with the help of the building’s residents. During the trial, the court examined six witnesses, including the boy, his father and a woman who had witnessed the assault.
  
 The woman witness told the court that when she was cleaning the windows of her flat, she noticed that the accused was sitting in the parking lot of the building and the boy was cycling close to him. She said she saw the accused holding the boy’s hand and touching him inappropriately. The boy then ran away. The woman deposed that she immediately rushed downstairs, but could not alert the boy’s mother as she unaware of his identity. Seeing no reason to disbelieve the evidence of the independent witness, the court said, “She has no reason to speak in favour of the informant (father), his child and against the accused who was working as a watchman in the society. The court said the woman’s evidence corroborated the testimony of the child.
 
 
