Shooting in Delhi for his next - the story of a Mumbai boy who comes to meet the   because he wants to build a toilet for his mother in their slum -   speaks out on why we have always seen our slums from a western perspective and the blatant hypocrisy of a society obsessed with ritual cleansing, but not basic sanitation.

  
 There is a series of dots which got plotted. Some 30 years ago I went to Bombay, ab toh Mumbai ho gaya hai. All this while I have been telling stories of the North - 'Rang De Basanti', 'Delhi-6', 'Bhaag Milkha Bhaag', even 'Mirzya', which is a folklore. All except 'Aks', which was my first film. I am a Delhi boy and I understand stories from the North. My films have not gone out to any foreign location because they look good. Movies are not about tourism, I don't think like that. But I also don't look down upon that because they are aspirational. They are giving a certain kind of pleasure to people who will never get to see Switzerland or Rome as such.
 
  
  
 
  
 Jab tees saal pehle main Bombay gaya tha toh wahan ek slum tha – Dharavi. Uss samay wahan uska bada woh tha - 'Asia’s biggest slum' - even today it might be the biggest but now it has become a mini industrial town. Now, when you land in Bombay, you are landing over slums and suddenly you hit the runway. That stays in your mind. Becoming half of a Bombayite and yet still in your heart a Delhiite, you start feeling the environment around you, and those are the stories you want to tell. I have always believed in that - joh andar se aap samajh pa rahe hain. This must have happened in my subconsciousness, now that you have asked toh maine realise kiya.
 
  
  The director recently took a train from Mumbai to Delhi with his cast of child actors to shoot for the film
 
 
  Four years ago, I got associated with an NGO - Yuva  . They are Ahmedabad-based boys and Amitabh is one of the boys who left a cushy job in New York, unhone 'Rang De Basanti' wagerah dekhi aur inspire ho gaye. Aa gaye yahan, Wall Street ki naukri chhor kar. They took me to Ahmedabad. In Sabarmati Ashram I saw where Gandhi had single-handedly brought about a revolution. Then we happened to go to a place where many toilets were built - joh Kantibhai wagerah ne baad mein movement chalayi thi. And then I realised that Gandhi was very keen on sanitation. So I went back to Yuva and I told them let's just make toilets, baaki sab bhool jate hain. Arjun ko machhli ki aankh dikh rahi hai, humein sirf toilet banana hai. 
 
  We started with municipal schools - wahan toilets non-existent hain. The girls, boys and their teachers go to the same dirty toilet - the boys go to the wall behind the school and the girls leave school when they are 12-13, once they hit puberty. Toh humne aise 3-4 school liye. Ek school mein toilet ko revamp karne ka Rs4-5 lakh kuch laga tha. Then we called patrons, industrialists who became prospective donors. I spoke to them a little and we let the children speak to them, and that day, we collected Rs3.5-4 crores in that one function. We gave the impact study to IIM Ahmedabad. Those 15-20 toilets have now grown into 800 toilets in the last four years.
 
  Then I got this idea from this young boy from Bihar who had a story of a boy who wanted to build a toilet for his mother. Aur usmein woh Pradhan Mantri ko chitthi likhta hai ki ek toilet banwa do. It was a Delhi-based story, the concept. I said let me research this a little. I then started researching in Bombay.
 
  
 Yeah, yeah, so what? It will be, so what?
 
  
 I think the film will tell the story. The film will say that building of toilets is more important than building of temples and mosques. That’s the voice of the film. And it is an appeal to the PM to do something about it. It is very much in the national consciousness and it is one more film about that. It will only snowball the effect. 
 
  
  
 
  I started researching for the story in Mumbai. If you want to understand that city, you just travel the Mithi river.You cannot travel because it has become a garbage river and I realised that Mumbai is nothing but a shitpot! Till I come to this slum in Passpoli, it is behind Powai lake. Wahan dekha toh the neighbourhood is full of life. And the kids are very smart. They have so much knowledge about what is Real Madrid and   because they have smartphones, tablets and are into WWF in a big way. I bumped into a group of 8-10 kids, they were sitting and using tablets made in China, Rs2,000 ke. Maine poochha yahan kya kar rahe ho toh kehne lage, 'Bhaiya, woh Renaissance hotel ka free Wi-Fi aata hai yahan par.' Wahan se Hiranandani (an upmarket township in Mumbai) dikhta hai. Toh maine unse kaha calculate karke batao ki usmein kitne bathroom honge - 50 floor ki building, ek floor pe 10 kholi, 10 kholi mein 20 bathroom, 500 kholi mein 1,000 bathroom. Saala ek building mein 1,000 toilet! Fir maine kaha, peeche mudd kar dekho - 1,000 ghar mein ek bhi toilet nahin! Aur iss cheez par woh itna hanse. 
 
  My inspiration for the movie is not to make a social comment - what really inspired me was the hope that these people have. Jitna bhi darkness ho, unko maloom hai kahin na kahin ja ke light aane wali hai.
 
  
 Kyunki woh bikta nahin hai. Counter-narrative doesn’t sell. For the longest time, as an audience in this country, we have bought into escapist cinema. Somewhere I feel that both the parties should be equally ashamed – us for actually providing it and them for exploiting it than doing something about it. Aur phir woh lip service kar dete hain - Oho! kitna bura ho raha hai and all that. I think the counter-narrative doesn’t exist because we have propagated cinema which is escapist. 
 
 
  
  Rakeysh Omprakash Mehra at the New Delhi Railway Station (BCCL/ Samik Sen)
 
  In the late 60s, early 70s – post the China war, the Bengal famine, Maharashtra drought, the dreamer Nehru had died and people suddenly were struck with stark reality. There was joblessness, corruption, there was no social system, the caste system suddenly came to the fore. Politically, there was no future; industrially, there was no future; ideologically, there was no future. So, our hero started dancing and entertaining. And people started to - I will use this contradictory term - escape this 'amazingly depressing life'. 
 
 
  
  
 
  They started going to this darkroom, so they can escape reality, because reality was very harsh - bus stop pe khade hain dhai ghante tak bus nahin aa rahi, train 16 ghante late hai, aayi bhi toh kahin bhi ruk jati hai beech mein. I have myself gone through all that. 
 
  Overall, this whole social economy or this socially mixed economy, as we called ourselves - taking parts of capitalism and communism and making into this what we had invented, I think we took the worst of both.
 
  
 That's very interesting - cinema, the opium of the masses. Why not? 
 
  Utne time ke liye, aap apni life bhool gaye. And yet, we kept deceiving the people, we created vamps. We said there should be 'Sati Savitriness,' so again the gender bias was there. You wanted to keep your women away, but at the same time, you wanted to lech at item songs, they still carried on. So I think, for the longest time the counter narrative was, 'Dekho hum kitne gareeb hain'. It was never seen as a celebration of life. It was never seen as a story of hope.
 
  
 But that's the genius of Raju (Hirani). He gives you a pill, but he sweetens it. Aap meethi goli samajh kar usko choos jaate ho, par uske andar karwapan hai, phir bhi woh dawai khila hi deta hai apko. Woh uska genius hai. Sabka apna cinema hota hai. 
 
  I can see things and present them only as they are. As much I try, I am not able to sweeten the pill, because that’s not what comes to me naturally. Aap wohi kar payenge jo apko aata hai, chahe woh sahi ho ya galat ho, uska impact ho ya na ho.
 
 
  
  
 
  
 I think paradox is a very poetic word. I would like to say yes, it’s a paradox and get away with it. But more than that it is blatant hypocrisy. Blatant. And it just shows us that how our society has not evolved yet. As a society, we are not caring for the other person. 
 
  Every time I see a fancy car, someone throws a packet of chips from it on the road. And I wonder what went wrong. It doesn't come from a guy in an auto. That man in the car must have gone to the best of the schools because he is driving a Rs80 lakh car. When I see a car like that, mujhe two-bedroom flat dikhta hai chalta hua. That’s the paradox. That’s the hypocrisy, that’s the lack of civic sense. More than that, we are living in past philosophy, with the help of rituals in our daily life. Our religion has lost its meaning and has totally lost relevance. Hinduism used to be a way of life - now is about ritualism. Kab kya karna hai, kiski puja karni hai, shanivar ko kya karna hai, shukravar ko ye karna hai, mandir mein jana hai, chappal utaar kar jao, wapis aao chappal chori ho jati hai. It's crazy!
 
 
 
  
  
 
  So, one day, I remember I had finished shooting for 'Rang De Basanti'. We were doing a dhaba sequence, it was around 2-2:30am. Hum log Film City se bahar aa rahe thay, and my car took a turn. And suddenly 8-10 women got up, dabba leke, in the headlight. Ab sharm mein woh bhi idhar-udhar dekh rahi hain aur main bhi. Koi saree neeche kar raha hai, koi salwar upar kar raha hai, toh koi baitha hi hai – in the moment of bliss ki humne bahut headlight dekh li hain zamane mein. My film opens like this – ki baatein chal rahi hain aur ek headlight parti hai – highway pe khadi hui hain dabba leke mother aur sister. Toh film ka pehla scene Fim City se nikla tha.
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
