PATNA: The CBI   on RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s residence in Patna and other places on Friday have created a political storm in the state and there are a few takers for the theory that chief minister Nitish Kumar left the state capital for Rajgir a day before just to recuperate.

 “I do not hold any ministerial berth in the state government; still I came to know about the   raids Thursday night itself. Hence, Nitish ji must have been aware about that,” a senior JD(U) functionary and former minister told TOI.
 
 Incidentally, Nitish got ‘indisposed’ on June 5, the day CBI lodged an FIR in Delhi against Lalu’s son and Bihar deputy CM   Prasad Yadav and his mother and former CM Rabri Devi for holding shares in Delight Marketing Company Private Limited. The firm had allegedly given around 3 acres of land in Patna to them in return of favour granted by RJD chief as railway minister in 2005 to private firm Sujata Hotels to maintain and operate two railway hotels at Ranchi and Puri.
 
 When Nitish left for Rajgir, political circles speculated that the move was to avoid opposition’s presidential nominee Meira Kumar, who reached Patna on Thursday and met the RJD and Congress MLAs and sought their support for the election scheduled on July 17.
 
 But, soon after the CBI raids, rumours had it that Nitish must have had prior information about the raids as quite often the central enforcement agency seeks assistance from the state police or home department in case of such high-profile raids. 
 
 “Though it is not mandatory for the CBI to seek state police assistance, I am sure Bihar Police must have been informed before the raids on Lalu’s residence to avoid any resistance. Even in 1998, when Lalu was questioned by CBI in the fodder scam, the state police was informed in advance,” said V S Dubey, who was then the chief secretary of undivided Bihar.
 
 Nitish, who talks of zero-tolerance on corruption and has acted against his tainted ministers in the past, is now faced with a ‘litmus test’ in the case of his deputy Tejashwi, who has now been booked by the CBI. Senior BJP functionary Sushil Kumar Modi demanded from Nitish to sack Tejashwi to save his image of ‘Sushan Babu’.
 
 Though JD(U) and Congress leaders remained tight-lipped on the raids, RJD called it a political vendetta. “The attack on our party president by central agencies started ever since we announced ‘BJP Hatao, Desh Bachao Rally’. BJP is afraid that crores of people would unite against the saffron party’s communal and fascist agenda. They are also scared of opposition unity; hence they are misusing central agencies against Lalu,” state RJD chief Ram Chandra Purbey said.
 
