NAGPUR:   finally lived up to her immense potential as she ended the jinx of not winning a major title at the senior level. The 21-year-old city shuttler completed a dream week by emerging champion at the All India Senior Ranking   tournament at Atul, Gujarat, on Thursday.

 In a thrilling women’s singles summit clash, Rasika registered a come-from-behind victory against Riya Mukherjee of   to clinch the crown.
 
 The battle between the two young unseeded players was a nail-biting affair and kept the spectators on the edge of their seats during the entire 60-minute duration of the match. Rasika didn’t have the best start but recovery to record 14-21, 21-19, 21-19 win.
 
 With this triumph, Rasika became only the third city female player to capture an All India Senior Ranking title.   and   had earlier won titles at Bareilly. It was also a sweet revenge for Rasika over Riya. Last year at Chandigarh during the team championship match of Senior Nationals, Rasika had to face defeat against Riya.
 
 Riya got off to a flying start and won the first game at 14. In the second game too, she was leading. However, Rasika kept her cool and pocketed the second game at 19 to restore parity. The decider was a cliff-hanger with fortunes changing with each point. It was always a catching up situation for Rasika. Rasika was down 5-10 but she levelled the scores by reeling of five successive points. During the mandatory change-over in the third game, Riya was leading 11-10.
 
 Thereafter, Riya was holding a slight lead and was just a couple of points away from the title at 19-18. However, as luck would have it, Rasika first levelled the scores 19-19 and then claimed two points in-a-row to clinch the issue, leaving her opponent Riya completely disappointed.
 
 Rasika was quite overjoyed with the sensational victory. “I am very happy with the win as it is my first title at the senior level. It was a very close match but my determination and never-say-die attitude helped me win,” Rasika told TOI.
 
 “After losing the first game, I was tense. It certainly wasn’t one of my best days at the meet. But at the end of the day I was quite pleased with the ultimate result,” said Rasika.
 
 A second year student of LAD College, Rasika won a cash prize of 73,000 for her effort. She said her coach Gopichand was very happy with the result. “I spoke to him and he congratulated me and told to keep performing well.”
 
 Rasika will be participating in the Vietnam Open and then India Open Super Series later this month.
 
