KOCHI:   ( ) continues to be a major cause of morbidity and mortality among children younger than 5 years of age in India, including Kerala.

 The latest study, “Invasive pneumococcal disease in children aged younger than 5 years in India: a surveillance study“, published in The   shows that even as India works hard to reduce its   (IMR), children here are still dying of vaccine-preventable diseases like IPD. It is caused by Streptococcus pneumonia (pneumococci), an organism that leads to ailments like meningitis and pneumonia, with young children mostly in the first two years of life affected.
 
 For the study , children below 5 years with suspected or proven invasive pneumococcal disease were enrolled from 18 hospitals (eight govt and 10 non-govt) across 11 Indian states.Retrospectively, laboratory-confirmed pneumococcal isolates from 10 sentinel laboratories were also included. This study is the largest surveillance effort in India to date.
 
 Of the 4,377 children younger than 5 years, who were enrolled for the 2015 study, 361 or 8% children were confirmed to have IPD, with culture reports confirming that nearly 58% of them had pneumonia, 35% meningitis and 7% had other clinical conditions. Of the 361 children with IPD, 9% had multi-drug resistance. Among culture proven IPD patients, 38 % died, which is more than twice the mortality in the non-IPD category .
 
 “Streptococcus pneumoniae is one of the leading infectious causes of pneumonia, meningitis, and sepsis in children worldwide. Approximately, 1 million children die every year because of pneumococcal diseases and about 90% of these deaths occur in low-income countries such as India. IPD is often fatal, with fatality ranging between 11% and 60%,“ said Dr Anand Manoharan, head of research and development, Pushpagiri Institute of Medical Sciences and Research Centre and the principal investigator and lead author of the study .
 
  estimates that approximately 0.41 million deaths of children under 5 years of age are due to pneumonia, with 0.105 million deaths caused by pneumococci. “To reduce IMR and meet the newly set Sustainable Development Goals to bring down IMR to 25 deaths or (fewer) per 1,000 children by 2030, India needs to address the problem of IPD,“ he said.
 
 Though the study shows prevalence of multi-drug resistance in patients, Dr Manoharan said it is much lower than in other surrounding Asian countries.“But it was higher than that in previous reports in India“. Two licensed vaccines (synflorix and prevnar) are available which should be given to the child during the first year, this vaccine prevents IPD in children and is now widely recommended for use. India plans to introduce this vaccine in a phased manner from 2018 under its vaccination program.
 
