VARANASI: Union home minister   said that the ISIS won’t be allowed to become a threat to India. “The government has kept an eye on the ISIS, and that won’t be allowed to become a major challenge for the country”, said Singh while talking to reporters here on Monday.

 Replying a query on the arrest of two suspected ISIS men on Sunday in Gujarat, he said that the ISIS would fail to influence Indian youth, as the people are alert and supportive to the government. “In fact the parents of some misguided youths contacted me and informed about their concerns,” he said adding that the government is keeping eyes on them. 
 
 It’s worth mentioning Gujarat Anti-Terrorism Squad arrested two ISIS suspects, who were allegedly planning to carry out serial blasts in Gujarat, from Rajkot and Bhavnagar on Sunday
 
 Targeting UP chief minister Akhilesh Yadav, Singh said that the CM should think seriously before leveling allegations on Prime Minister  . “In a press conference the CM said that the PM while addressing rallies should point out the works he has done for the development. 
 
 I want to tell him (CM) that he must have knowledge of the functioning of federal structure in a democracy. In federal structure over 80% development works are done through states, and he should not forget that for the first time UP was given 42% central revenue, which earlier used to be 32%”, he said adding that there is a long list of works done by the BJP-led central government that included LPG connections under Ujjwala Yojana, availability of cardiac stents at controlled price, over 9 lakh power connections in 1464 villages, over three crore banks accounts under PM Jan Dhan Yojna, benefits under Mudra Yojna, Atal Pension Yojna, construction of eight modern highways of 865km in length at the cost of Rs. 6218 crore. 
 
 Mocking at Akhilesh for highlighting metro rail, he said, “Lucknow Metro ki bahut charcha ho rahi hai. One should know that 80% contribution to metro rail projects comes from Centre”. He further said that the central government worked for the revival of closed urea factory at Gorakhpur. “Political analysts world over appreciate the good governance of BJP, which has emerged as a credible political party. “We have not gone for apprenticeship after forming government like UP CM. We are in fray not only to form a government, but to build UP,” he said. 
 
 “Ashcharya hota hai sunkar ki Kaam bol raha hai, dharatal par kaam dikhna bhi chahiye” (It is surprising to hear that that works are speaking, the works should also be visible on ground), he said alleging that no specific steps were taken for controlling deadly Japanese encephalitis that claimed 615 lives in UP in 2016. There are 30 sugar mills in the state, and today hardly only three are functioning, he said and added that nothing was done by the SP and BSP governments for industrial revival of Mau, which known as Manchester of Purvanchal. These government also did nothing to check erosion by rivers that displaced over one lakh families from 5000 villages of this region.
 
 He said that efficient law and order is the first condition for development. “I won’t blame the police for poor law and order, it’s solely depends on the ability and temperament of the CM. It is the same police that successfully eliminated the Maoist menace from the state during my regime,” he said. 
 
 Taking a potshot on SP-Congress alliance in UP, he said, “A senior Congress leader, who was a CM nominee in UP, terms the young leader as immature. She knows him better. Here in UP the CM himself admits that he is an apprentice. I wish he should qualify the apprenticeship and get a certificate to prove that now he is well qualified”. 
 
 Expressing his concern over mudslinging in poll campaign, he said that one should have control on language. It is unfortunate to see the use of unfair words against the PM, who is not an individual but an institution whose dignity should not be lowered down. Replying a query regarding unrest in  , he said that Delhi police commissioner has been asked to take sensible steps in this regard.
 
