PUNE: Cash benefits for two-wheelers from manufacturers made it seem like Dussehra, Diwali and Gudi Padwa rolled into one on Friday. 

 Almost all Bharat Stage (BS)-III two-wheelers with dealers in the city were sold out on Thursday and Friday with people wanting to make the most of the discount frenzy running from showroom to showroom to make good of the rare windfall.
 
 The   registered 3,112 motorcycles and scooters till 9pm on Friday, up from 1,602 on Thursday. In the first 11 months of this fiscal, the Pune RTO registered an average of 488 two-wheelers a day. 
 
 The   also registered an average of over 530 two-wheelers on Wednesday and Thursday, against a daily average of 279 daily. 
 
 Automakers gave   of up to Rs 15,000 to clear the entire BS-III stock, after the   ruled that these vehicles cannot be sold from Saturday.
 
 People loosened their purse strings on Thursday and many paid a lump sum to get their vehicles registered before April 1. When store managers showed them the superior BS-IV vehicles, people went hunting for vehicles with discounts.
 
 Many dealers had liquidated a bulk of their stocks on March 28, Gudi Padwa, considered auspicious for buying vehicles. Despite brisk business, dealers were unhappy as they had to sell at a “loss.”
 
 “We sold double the numbers we sell daily and there was still a demand, but we sold at a loss. Hopefully, the company will now compensate us for it,” a dealer of TVS motorcycles and scooters in the city said.
 
 A Hero Motocorp dealer said many dealers were able to off-load their BS-III stocks after offering deep discounts. “No one was interested in BS-IV vehicles. Everyone wanted a discount,” Parmanand Banwani of   said. “I had only 8-10 BS-III bikes but I would have sold even 200-250 if I had them on Friday. Such was the rush,” he added. 
 
 Many Honda showrooms in the city had put out paper cuttings indicating that they had run out of BS-III stocks. Dealers were inundated with calls on Friday. Many had switched off their cellphones by the evening.
 
 “I got 200 calls on Thursday and over 300 on Friday. I am not able to put the phone down,” Ravindra Ganpole, a dealer with a Bajaj showroom in the city, said.
 
 Pradeep Mehtani was taken in with the two-wheeler deals. “ I called up at least 10 dealers for the best offer. By the time I decided on one in Wanowrie, he had sold all his two-wheelers. The discount of Rs 15,000 for every two-wheeler and the added free insurance was too good to resist,” he said. 
 
 BS norms are emission standards which dictate the amount of carbon monoxide, hydrocarbon, nitrogen oxide and other particulate matter emission levels from vehicles when measured in standard test conditions. In reality, the vehicles tend to emit more as road conditions differ. India does not have a regime for on-road testing of vehicles.
 
 From April 1, 2017 only BS-IV vehicles will be registered. In standard test conditions, these emit 21% to 76% less emission (depending on vehicle and fuel type) compared to BS-III vehicles.
 
 
