CHANDIGARH:   administration, on Wednesday, selected Mumbai-based heritage architect, consultant and conservator   as UT heritage consultant. She will prepare the Conservation and Management plan document for Capitol Complex, a recent declared   world heritage site and also consult on each aspect of the project in a detailed manner. 

 Lambah has worked for conservation of Maharashtra-based world heritage site Ajanta Caves, Bodh Gaya based world heritage site Mahabodhi Temple, Red Fort Museum, Lothal Indus Valley site in Gujarat and Mumbai-based  . 
 
 The Chandigarh administration selected Abha out of six contenders who applied for the job through tender process. "As per information, the selected consultant will prepare a detailed conservation and management plan to conserve the Capitol Complex heritage site. The plan will include its future maintenance, how to preserve heritage buildings, how to alter its interior and exterior to maintain the original character of the building and its restoration plan. It will also include details of maintenance of the buffer zone and other allied aspects, to conserve the buildings, site as per guidelines laid down by UNESCO and to maintain the structures as per the parameters of world heritage status", said a senior UT official, pleading anonymity.
 
 "The consultant will tell us in detail about encroachments in buildings of heritage sites. For example, many encroachments have been detected in Punjab and Haryana secretariat. Some of the encroachments include temporary structures, uneven paint in different colours on heritage buildings, loose wires, AC ducts and wooden structures. The consultant will study all such things and play a crucial role to rectify it", the official said.
 
 Beside other aspects, a technical committee of the Chandigarh administration studied works of each consultant who applied for the job. The process began a few months ago. 
 
 Box: The contract
 
 The heritage consultant has been selected for a time period of three years initially, but the contract may be increased according to the work. She has been hired for Rs 1.48 crore for the said period. She will work on the entire Capitol Complex, comprising all the buildings. But initially, she will focus on the Punjab and Haryana secretariat building.
 
 Box: Top projects 
 
 Ajanta Caves-------------World Heritage Site Aurangabad, Maharashtra
 
 Mahabodhi Temple------------World Heritage Site Bodh Gaya, Bihar
 
 Chandramauleshwar Temple---------Hampi World Heritage Site, Karnataka
 
 Krishna Temple-----------------------Hampi World Heritage Site, Karnataka
 
 Saumya Someshwara Temple-----------Hampi World Heritage Site, Karnataka
 
 Lothal Indus Valley Site-----------------Gujarat
 
 Red Fort Museum--------------------Delhi
 
 Sheesh Mahal Palace Museum-----------Patiala, Punjab
 
 Lal Bagh Palace----------------------Indore, Madhya Pradesh
 
 Viceregal Lodge----------------------Shimla,  
 
