THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Eminent historian M G Shashibhooshan said   was a ‘gift of consciousness’ for art enthusiasts. He was talking at the   of ‘Kalam Kavalam’, a compilation of recollections by various personalities on the life and works of the legendary dramatist, theatre director and poet Kavalam Narayana Panicker held here on Sunday. The book has been edited and compiled by Shabu Kilithattil.

 “We usually see people reciting Ramayana at funeral functions. But after the demise of Kavalam Narayana Panicker, his house echoed folk verses and music which was done according to his wish. That alone portrays the sum and substance of Kavalam as an artist. His work Theyya Theyyam, which is based on ancient Kerala, heritage and practices, showcases his artistic excellence. It is not surprising that famous historians like   and R S Sharma were all praises for Kavalam after they saw his work Avanavan Kadampa,” he said.
 
 Actor Nedumudi Venu handed over the book ‘Kalam Kavalam’ to Kavalam Narayana Panicker’s wife Sarada Panicker at the event. Nedumudi Venu spoke about the play of fate as he recalled a theatre competition where an award was presented to him by Kavalam’s wife Saradamani Panicker 40 years back. “After several years, I am here to hand over the book on Kavalam to his wife. The work of Shabu Kilithattil is indeed laudable as is visible from the book. Our unique language, culture, heritage and practices are fading away at a fast pace. During his lifetime, Kavalam had fought all odds to retain our culture and heritage through his distinctive works. His had given us clear ideas about what to worship and what to fight for and so on. The homage for such a great artist will not be confined in a book release but will continue in new ventures,” he said.
 
 Nedumudi Venu also handed over awards to various artists associated with the Sopanam theatre founded by Kavalam.
 
 Ex-MP T N Seema also spoke at the event, who explained how the works of Kavalam had an impact on her during her career as a teacher in Malayalam literature. “His works revived the concept of art in my younger years. He effected a major transition in our usual reading habits,’’ she said. Writer   and poet O V Usha were also present on the occasion.
 
 
