Bhopal: Bhagwan Singh Kushwaha has become the first person from Madhya Pradesh to complete a cycle expedition to reach the highest motorable peak of 18,380 ft in Leh (Khardung), where temperature was in minus.

 With this, the MP sports department employee has added yet another feather to his cap. Bhagwan Singh is also the first civilian mountaineer from MP to climb the Mt Everest in 2016.
 
 Starting his journey from Manali, Bhagwan Singh completed the 590-km journey in just 9 days to reach Leh (Khardung), which is at the height of 18,380 ft. Known for his adventurous tasks, Bhagwan Singh waited for one full year for this day to come after achieving the Mt Everest feat. He successfully completed the ‘Mount Everest Expedition South Face Spring – 2016’. Prior to this, Kushwaha successfully completed a trek of a 5000-metre high black stone in Nepal in 2015.
 
 Talking to TOI, Bhagwan said he started his journey on September 3. “We were 12 cyclists and only three could reach the top as others backed out owing to chilling temperature and lack of oxygen,” said Bhagwan. Other two cyclists were from Delhi and Haryana.
 
 About his journey, Bhagwan said, “On few occasions, it was even tough to pedal. After reaching 16,000 ft, I was about to fall in the valley owing to poor oxygen level there. Thankfully, nothing happened to me. I was determined to complete the expedition in any circumstances,” said Bhagwan.
 
 The 42-year-old adventurer said, “I have set a few targets to achieve in life. In past three years, I have completed three and there are more to achieve. I want to make MP proud at the national level.” Bhagwan Singh belongs to Gwalior and is currently posted in Bhopal. The sports department has supported him financially.
 
 Sports department director Upendra Jain said Bhagwan is a passionate youth. “Such people are rare. He never sits idle even when he has nothing to do. He always keeps himself busy and ready to take up challenges in life. We were also surprised when he first showed his interest in scaling Mt Everest. But, he has proved his mettle by not only scaling Everest but also completing the cycle expedition to reach the highest motorable peak,” said Jain.
 
 
