KOLKATA: Memes have started doing the rounds about how minister   is trying to play the peacemaker between warring factions in Tollywood. Despite the best efforts, there is still no light at the end of the tunnel. Egos are running high and two important meetings later, the ban on   has still not been lifted. Last heard is that the   of Cine Technicians and Workers of Eastern India (FCTWEI) has been given a deadline by Eskay Movies to withdraw the ban.

 Producer of Mithun-starrer 'Tulkalam’, Ankush-starrer ‘Kella Fate’, Jeet-Jisshu-Koel-starrer ‘Neel Akasher Chandni' and Soham-starrer ‘Bajimaat’,   said, “I was part of the meeting that minister Arup Biswas had called to sort out the issues. He really tried and wanted Ashok and   to meet his brother Swarup Biswas from FCTWEI on Saturday and sort out the matter."
 
 Saha pointed out that at the meeting with the minister it was made clear there is no question of Eskay Movies issuing any apology letter to FCTWEI. “The FCTWEI has a habit of stocking such letters from producers if they have to sort out self-created problems. Producers usually write those letters even when they are not at fault just to ensure that their shooting is not stalled. A producer in Bengal risks a lot while investing in movies. No bank gives loans for producing films and FCTWEI knows that under no circumstances does a producer want to have his films stalled. Whenever there is a problem, FCTWEI insists on an apology letter to get work started. It is trying the same trick now. This time around, Eskay Movies will not give any apology letter for what happened in London,” Saha said.
 
 On Saturday, a meeting was held between the directors of Eskay Movies and the office-bearers of the Federation. “The Federation was asked how it will monetarily compensate the losses which Eskay Movies incurred since it was they who didn’t allow technicians who were in UK to shoot for 'Chalbaaz'. Subsequently, the Kolkata leg of the shooting of another film was also stalled. The Federation has to answer how they will compensate this,” Saha said.
 
 According to Saha, Himanshu Dhanuka has sent a letter to Swarup Biswas on Sunday asking him to give clarity on all these issues. “In this letter, Eskay Movies has mentioned that it has planned a shooting this Saturday in Kolkata. In addition, it is planning a shooting in London again from August-end. They can take only those technicians whose visa get approved within the travelling date. The FCTWEI has to give an assurance in writing that no shooting will be stalled in this manner in future. A guilty producer can be hauled up at the JCC and asked to give a penalty,” Saha said.
 
 If FCTWEI ignores this letter by Tuesday, Saha said the producer will be forced to use technicians from elsewhere and do their work. “The letter also states that if they are being pushed to the wall this way, Eskay Movies will have no other option but to take steps which are deemed fit to safeguard their interest and losses,” he said.
 
 Meanwhile, he also insisted that the protests have been loud and clear not because Eskay Movies has been suffering. “People have asked me why we didn’t protest this way earlier. Others too have suffered. The fact is that such things have been happening since long and we have been accepting it. Now, things have gone completely out of control. If a big producer like Eskay Movies is being treated this way, what will happen to smaller ones in future? That’s why we are speaking out now. Egos have to be left aside. There has been immense delay in sorting out this issue. Delaying it any further is not helping anyone. For the sake of Tollywood, the problem needs to be addressed soon,” he concluded.
 
