AURANGABAD: The Zilla Parishad and the panchayat samiti elections held in eight districts of Marathwada on Thursday recorded an average 66% voter turnout. 

 Preliminary figures released by the state election commission (SEC) indicated that 66.22% voting was reported in Aurangabad, Beed (68.73%) Hingoli (72.49%), Jalna (74.80, Latur (70.31%), Nanded 71.69 (%), Osmanabad (71.94%) and Parbhani (74.94%). The final figures would come in only late on Thursday night. 
 
 Voting for the 62 seats of Aurangabad zilla parishad and 124 seats of the panchayat samitis was conducted in the district in a peaceful manner, said the official.
 
 The activists belonging to different political parties were enthusiastic throughout the campaign period, but the relatively low voter turnout till 3.30 pm put the major players on edge. It was hovering around 40% around 3.30 pm.
 
 However, it gained some momentum in the last two hours till 5.30pm. It was expected that since all the four major players-  , the  , the   and the NCP were putting in all their strength into these polls, the election would witness a big voter turnout, said an official.
 
 District unit Sena chief   expressed confidence that the Sena would emerge as the largest party in the Zilla Parishad elections. But he also blamed that lower turn out in the initial hours to the confusion in the voters lists at many places. 
 
 BJP state spokesperson Shirish Boralkar asserted that the BJP would more than double its tally compared to last time. “The low turnout has confused our analysts. Irrespective of the low turnout, we are expected to win at least 14 to 15 seats compared to previous zilla parishad when we could win only 6 seats,” he said. 
 
 Fifteen ZP and 165 panchayat samitis in the state had gone to the poll in the first phase of the elections on Thursday. In the first phase, elections were held in all the eight districts of Marathwada. Remaining 11 zilla prishads and 118 panchayats samitis in the state would go to election in the second phase on February 21, said an election official.
 
 The election was considered to be an acid test for almost all the major political players, particularly the Shiv Sena and the BJP who are fighting it on their own after ending an alliance of 25 years. 
 
 The Shiv Sena and the BJP, the traditional saffron allies, were engaged in a fierce battle, both of words and the ballot to prove they enjoy considerable following in the rural areas. Though the Congress and the NCP too had fielded their candidates, their campaigning remained by and large a low key affair while the both the ruling partners - BJP and the Sena- were more vocal and spending their words and energy generously to outsmart each other.
 
