MOHALI: With   on many   roads wither absent or dysfunctional, roads are enveloped in darkness. Since MC authorities have decided to install   in the city, residents hope things change after the assembly elections.

 There are 12,000 street lights in Mohali, which were installed more than nine years ago. Some are over 15 years old. Former MC commissioner Uma Shankar Gupta floated the proposal to install LED street lights for the benefit of public and beautification of the city. According to him, LED lights will be brighter and save over 40% of power. 
 
 Areas with non-functional streetlights include Sector 80, areas bordering Mohali and Chandigarh, parts of industrial areas, phase 7, phase 8 and sector 69, among others.
 
 Gurjeet Kaur, a resident of Sector 90 said, "Our sector is located almost in corner of the city and dysfunctional street lights make the area unsafe for women. There are always a few miscreants standing along the roadside. When we shout, they run away into the dark, where there are no 
 
 street lights. I have called authorities to repair faulty streetlights but no action has been taken yet."
 
 Even though streetlights have been installed, their maintenance remained a problem despite hiring of a private company,  . The contract was terminated by the   in 2015.
 
 Area residents have been complaining of a rise in crime, including robbery, chain-snatching and kidnapping, with criminals taking advantage of the dark.
 
 Ashok Kumar, a resident of Sector 69 said, "Complete darkness on the roads works to criminals' advantage. They are always ready for a chance to snatch, kill or kidnap."
 
 Residents say there are functional streetlights in phase 5 and surrounding sectors because the MC commissioner and deputy commissioner live in this area but other areas are not well taken care of. 
 
 Sethi Dhaliwal, owner of a shop in phase 1 said, "Streetlights are the biggest problem for our business. Recently, robbers took my laptop from the shop at night. There was no light at the time and no police in the market either. Now, shop owners have hired a private security guard for the safety of our shops."
 
 An official in the electricity department said, "Timers of streetlights, which automatically switch them on or off were stolen."
 
 Talking to TOI, residents said absence of streetlights encourages both crime and illegal dummping of garbage, illegal mining and other activities.
 
 Atul Sharma, an employee in a private company of Industrial Area, Phase 2 said, "Besides the streetlight, the condition of roads is also pathetic and we are forced to take a long route home. It would have taken me less than 
 
 15 minutes to go home from my workplace. But with so many potholes and non-functional streetlights, the travel time increases to more than 45 minutes."
 
 Assuring brighter days ahead, an MC official said, "Around 40% of street lights are under the maintenance of GMADA while the remaining fall under MMC. Very soon, we will take charge of all street lights to clear the confusion. Street lights are the responsibility of the civic body."
 
 Graphic: Darkness prevails
 
 -- There are 12,000 street lights in Mohali 
 
 -- All street lights are more than 8 years old
 
 -- More than 700 street lights are dysfunctional and those that work emit low light
 
 -- Residents complain that most of the working street lights flicker
 
 -- Tender for 18,000 LED street lights was floated by MMC but no action has been taken so far
 
 "When I travel at night, areas without streetlights are completely dark. Then there are potholes to contend with. Also, the darkness emboldens criminals, which is dangerous. I have made repeated complaints but all I get is verbal assurances."
 
 Iqbal Singh, resident of phase 1
 
