Bengaluru: A city civil and sessions court on Saturday awarded a life sentence to Satish Kumar Gupta, former HR manager of Infosys, after finding him guilty of killing his wife Priyanka Gupta seven years ago.

 Principal district and sessions judge, Basavaraja Sappanavar, convicted Gupta for murder and causing destruction of evidence. The court also imposed a fine of Rs 25,000 on Gupta, currently lodged in Parappana Agrahara central prison.
 
 Priyanka Gupta, 29, a teacher with Delhi Public School, was strangled and her throat slit on August 10, 2010, in their Hulimavu residence, south-east Bengaluru.
 
 Gupta was upset with Priyanka as she often reportedly abused his parents and never allowed them to stay with them. Gupta decided to kill his wife after Priyanka insulted his parents when they came to participate in ground-breaking ceremony on land he had purchased to construct a house. During the ceremony, Priyanka had allegedly pushed her in-laws out, saying the land belonged to her husband and they need not participate in the puja.
 
 Planned murder
 
 Satish Gupta made Priyanka sit on a chair, blindfolded her and presented her gifts. He made this a habit so that she wouldn’t suspect him. On the third such attempt, Satish tied Priyanka’s hands and legs before blindfolding her and told her the present would be for her neck. But he strangled and slit her throat.
 
 Later, he went out for a jog with a friend, carrying Priyanka’s mobile phone with him. Keeping her mobile in his pocket, Satish dialled his mobile phone number and said loudly, ‘Don’t entertain strangers’. He told his friend that a stranger had entered his house. Police said Satish had tried to misguide the investigation with this trick but he was finally caught as police proved Satish had carried Priyanka’s mobile with him.
 
 Then then CCB-DCP Alok Kumar, who is now IG-North Eastern Range, had formed a team of technical specialists. “Sir, please catch the culprit soon so that her soul will rest in peace,” Satish had told Alok Kumar. The same evening, Alok Kumar and others succeeded in getting the truth out of Satish.
 
 ‘Challenging case’
 
 “It was a challenging case as we had no material evidence in the beginning. However, things turned our way when we proved to Satish that he was carrying Priyanka’s mobile. Technical evidence played a vital role. Investigation was so effective that High Court and Supreme court twice rejected his bail plea,” the then CCB-DCP Alok Kumar, who is now IG-North Eastern Range.
 
 
