There was calm before the storm.

 But days before Cyclone   made landfall near Chennai, five weather buoys   (NIOT) deployed in strategic places in the   were the first known instruments to pick up sudden variations in the condition of the sea.
 
 The power unleashed by Vardah lifted two buoys from their mooring berths but could not penetrate their reinforced data containers, leaving scientists valuable ocean weather data, including a 9.25m high wave and sustained gusts of wind of up to 130kmph - a record for the Chennai coast.
 
 Our limited knowledge of the depths of the planet's seas and underwater life is that our seas are much more inaccessible than land. Around 71% of the earth's surface is covered in water and that scientists will still be unlocking the secrets of the deep blue sea for dozens of years to come at the earliest. Consider that the highest point on earth, Mt Everest, is 8.8km tall, while the Mariana Trench, the deepest spot in the world, is close to 11km in depth, an average of 69km wide and 2,550km long.Professional divers usually do not attempt to go below 400m, because it can cause a human's lungs to collapse, killing him instantly .
 
 This is why scientists need manmade devices like automated submarines and buoys with research equipment.
 
 The institute's five buoys picked up a massive amount of data from Vardah, which will help scientists observe and track weather patterns and better predict storms in the future.
 
 NIOT ocean observation programme director   said he and his col leagues would analyse and compare data got from Vardah with information garnered from previous cyclones like Phailin and  .
 
 “We will look at the behaviour of various cyclones and variations it caused in the at mosphere and the ocean,“ Venkatesan said.
 
 “We will also use the data for weather and ocean models.“ NIOT's buoys across the bay collected 76 parameters of data, including pressure, wind speed and direction with sensors and relayed the facts to ground stations.
 
 One of the five buoys on Vardah's path travelled from the Andamans, transmitting data in real-time. Scientists pro grammed a buoy near Chennai harbour to au tomatically switch to rapid mode with any major change in weath er.
 
 These sensors otherwise relay data to ground stations via satellites once in two to three hours.
 
 Vardah dragged the buoy for more than 8.67km. After its mooring snapped, the buoy continued to record data -including wind speeds of up to 130kmph.
 
 Scientists say it was the first time they observed such extreme weather conditions close to Chennai. The buoy was later recovered off Besant Nagar.
 
 
