Madurai: The acute   crisis and skyrocketing price of tanker water in Kodaikanal have inflicted a triple whammy on the tourism industry as well as residents already reeling under severe cash crunch due to demonetisation. 

 The hotel industry in the hill tourist destination has been struggling to disburse salaries to its employees after being hit hard by the withdrawal of high-value currency notes. To add to their discomfiture, the hotels have also been shelling out exorbitant rates for water because of shortage. And now comes news that the water being supplied to them may have been stolen from Kodaikanal lake, as TOI reported. 
 
 Residents say they have been the worst hit by the crisis as the water price has gone up by 40 per cent. Daniel Raja, a resident of the town, says that get water to drink only once in 15 days. They have been praying for rain which has played truant for the last two monsoons. If there are no showers in a month, the tourist paradise will have to embrace its worst drought in recent years.
 
 An official of the engineering department said that water sources available in the town are not sufficient to meet the requirements of the 40,000-odd population and the growing number of visitors. “We have shortage because the old and second reservoirs constructed in 1969 and 1985 respectively often go dry because of their poor capacity. We are looking forward to the completion of lower Guntar water project as a permanent solution. Almost 30 per cent of the works has been completed,” he said adding that the municipality is managing the situation with the water available in some freshwater wells and bore wells.
 
 “The cost of a water load of 5,000 litres has gone up from around Rs 1,000 to Rs 1,800. That too, has to be booked a couple of days ahead. We are already hit by demonetisation and could not even pay salaries of employees. The water problem has only worsened our problems,” said a private hotel manager. “We are in talks with the municipality commissioner to supply water for the hotels as well. We are ready to pay the amount they fix,” said Abdul Kani Rani, a hotel owner. 
 
 Recently, TOI had exposed water theft from the polluted Kodaikanal lake, which was rated as of ‘D’ category in a scale of five with A being the best. Hoteliers have been very cautious ever since they came to know that private tanker truck operators supplied polluted water. “At any cost we do not want to put the health of our customers at risk,” said R Mohan, a cottage owner from Vilpatti. With no signs of rain, the water scarcity is only expected to become worse. Due to the high demand from hotels, the water price has gone up and the residents are also left in the lurch. 
 
 
