The Goa Football Association ( ) is perplexed with a sudden spurt in applications from clubs, all of whom want to play in the next edition of the Goa Pro League.
 
  FC Goa, the Goan franchise in the Indian Super League (ISL) and among the most popular brand in Goa, were the first to seek a direct entry into the Goa Pro League. Since then three others have knocked on the doors of GFA and sought a place among the elite.
  
  The other clubs include Vedanta, Panjim Footballers and Goa Sports Academy.
  
  Vedanta–Sesa Goa Iron Ore needs no introduction to football enthusiasts in Goa as   had a successful football team in top-flight football till the late nineties when they disbanded the club and established the Sesa Football Academy in 1999.
  
  Goa Sports Academy, according to its website is a “non-corporate sports institution striving to uplift the level of sports in Goa,” which has Bollywood film producer Xavier Marquis as its president. Goa Sports Academy participated in the Goa Premier League (GPL) T20 cricket tournament.
  
  Panjim Footballers is a popular club from the city, started in 1979 when Don Bosco Oratory was being managed by Fr Joe Braganza. Ravi Borkar, Ulhas Kavlekar, late Armando Rodrigues, Simon Mascarenhas, Caetano Albuquerque and GFA executive committee member Angelo Albuquerque, better known as Anju, were among those who started the club.
  
  Initially, the club played only in Inter-Village tournaments but has now worked its way to the First Division League, just a notch below the Goa Pro League.
  
  “The request of FC Goa among others for a slot in the Goa Professional League for the coming season was deferred for want of proper details regarding the prospects that will be made available to the various players in the state. The GFA while welcoming corporate teams was of the opinion that players’ interests will be the guiding factor before taking any decision,” the GFA said in a statement after its executive committee meeting last week.
  
  The GFA is planning to make the Goa Pro League a 12-team affair next season . But accommodating all teams may not be possible especially since the tournament now assumes added significance after top clubs  , Dempo Sports Club and Sporting Clube de Goa have all pulled out of the I-League, leaving them with just the domestic league to compete.
  
  Last season, the GFA provided   a direct entry after charging them a fee of Rs 10 lakh.
  
  The GFA will take a decision at its next executive committee meeting, likely to be held later this month.
