AMRITSAR:   Committee (SGPC) chief secretary  , on Friday, resigned from his post almost a year before the end of his contract. While both SGPC president Kirpal Singh Badungar and Harcharan claimed the resignation was voluntary, sources said the chief secretary was asked to quit following a proposition to this effect by an influential head of a religious and educational institute.

 While confirming the chief secretary’s resignation, Badungar said the SGPC had accepted his resignation and he would be relieved from the post on July 31. He dismissed the allegations that an ongoing negative campaign against him had forced the former banker to resign. Badungar said the SGPC had instead passed a resolution lauding his services.
 
 He said he had conveyed to Harcharan that even after his resignation, he should remain associated with the SGPC. Sources in the SGPC and the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) alleged that the head of a religious and educational institute resented the chief secretary for ignoring its followers, many of them being employees of the SGPC, and had proposed his termination. “Pher ajj shahi farmaan aa gaya (So royal decree arrived today), and he resigned,” said sources.
 
 When contacted, Harcharan said, “I have resigned on absolute personal grounds.” He denied that he was forced to submit his resignation by the SGPC.
 
 Harcharan, former vice-chairman of Punjab and Sind Bank (PSB), had joined the SGPC in August 2015 during the tenure of the then SGPC president Avtar Singh Makkar on a three-year contract. SGPC’s executive body had then created a special post of the chief secretary to accommodate the former banker at a monthly salary of Rs 3 lakh that hinted at his influence in the SAD, which is known to indirectly control the committee. Besides gurdwara management and routine affairs, Harcharan was prominently tasked to look after SGPC’s finances because of his past experience in the banking sector.
 
 However, creation of the chief secretary’s post and the salary of Rs 3 lakh to Harcharan had created a controversy. Notably, Harcharan had surrendered 65% of his salary.
 
