MUMBAI: A player draft is always a nerve-wracking event for a club management, especially if you have 205 options and have to make up the majority of your squad. 

 The Indian Super League (ISL) clubs, though, aced their homework ahead of the Indian Player Draft that was held here on Sunday. With the league rules allowing each club to retain a maximum of just two players and two developmental players (U-21), the domestic draft was crucial owing to the fact that a club has to have a minimum of 15 Indians in their squad. 
 
 Bearing in mind that teams have a total purse of Rs 18 cr to sign all players, including foreigners, one would expect teams wouldn't mind giving up their player using the 'Instant Trade' option in order to raise the price of said player, further tightening the purse strings of the interested club. 
 
 However, despite more than 10 attempts, there was no successful Instant Trade result, which only means that each club knew exactly what they were going for and weren't willing relent at any cost. "Money was never an option," as a Mumbai City official present at the draft said.
  
  owner   though had another, rather hilarious answer to why no Instant Trade was successful. "We're not just good at bargaining," said Sharma, who refused to give up Lalmangaihsanga 'Sena' Ralte to  . "People didn't know how much to pay for a player and at the same time didn't want to spend too much. Everyone just went up there, said no, and came back down," he said.
  
 Abhishek Bachchan, co-owner of   said his team looked at retaining most of the players and a trade-off was out of the question at any point.
  
 "We've spent weeks preparing for the draft. First of all, it's kind of difficult to get everyone you want, but we came prepared with multiple options for each position. We went through many scenarios in the rehearsal, so obviously we weren't going to let go once we got a player," he said. 
 
 So how much more money was offered?  's Chief Technical Officer (CTO), Mandar Tamanhe sheds some light.
  
 "I can't tell you the exact discussions, but yes, a club was willing to pay an extra Rs 60L. That would've probably made the said player very expensive, but we were not willing to sell," he said. 
 
 
 
 An Instant Trade Card allows teams a second chance to trade a player selected. Any club, within 15 seconds of another club announcing its draft pick, has to press the buzzer to activate the process. Representatives of both clubs then propose, negotiate and close the deal within a stipulated time. 
 
 
