AHMEDABAD: A   in Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation's first   in Shahpur has been accused of raping an 8-year old girl, a student of class III. The teacher is also the   The accused, Sunil Damor, was arrested within hours of the grandfather of the girl lodging an FIR.

 Angry relatives of the victim, and locals lost control and began pelting stones when the accused to teacher was brought to the school premises on Monday for the purpose of investigation.
 
 Locals gathered around the school at about 12 noon and started pelting stones at the school premises. “We had resort to lathi charge to disperse the crowd. No one was reported injured in the stone pelting but it raised tension in the area,“ said a senior police official.
 
 Local political leaders also gathered at the school premises and raised slogans condemning the incident. “Security has been deployed at the school,“ said a senior police official.
 
 According to police sources the eight-year-old girl was allegedly taken to the gallery located on the first floor of the school by Damor who is also her class tea cher.
 
 “Here, the teacher allegedly raped the child while other students were downstairs during recess. The girl then went home and told her mother about the incident. The grandfather of the girl immediately approached cops and lodged a complaint,“ said a police official.
 
 Deputy Commissioner of Police, Zone2, Usha Rada, said the accused teacher was arrested within hours of the FIR and is on police remand. “The girl, under severe trauma, was rushed to Civil Hospital for treatment. The medical test could not be conducted on Saturday as the girl was under severe trauma and did not allow the tests. The tests were finally conducted on Monday,“ added DCP Rada.
 
 The victim's grandfather said her granddaughter has been subjected to terrib le cruelty by the teacher and he should be punished for that. “We will fight till justice is done,“ he added.
 
 Chairman of school board, Pankaj Chauhan, said the accused teacher is a vidya sahayak. “Action against the teacher will only be taken on the basis of the probe report,“ Chauhan said. Civil hospital sources said on Monday that the girl is stable and medical tests had been conducted. “We will be able to submit the report by Tuesday,“ said a hospital source.
 
