This is her second film and   says that although everyone treated her like a baby on ' ''s sets, nobody treated her like a newbie and gave her the space she needed. The actress, who was in the city for her film's promotions, says, "For me, I was entering the sets of veterans but I did not know what to expect. Everyone treated me like a kid but nobody made me feel like that this was my second film."

 
 Talking about her second film, Athiya says that the movie has characters people will easily relate to. "I am actually nervous and anxious about the film. It is a comedy movie, it is chaotic and has a sweet message. What I really liked about the movie was its script. It is very relatable and honest and is not slapstick at all. It is very situational. You will have people like that in your family as well. We all have crazy characters in our families and I think I am definitely the craziest in mine. People think that I am very innocent and elegant, but I am the complete opposite of that. I am a joker in my family. I don't need to do anything, but the things I say and my actions make everyone laugh without even realizing," she says. 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 Athiya says that while shooting for an advertisement, she had actually done dilli darshan. "From that darshan, I remember that I really liked Hauz Khas market. It is a very quaint place and I think some of the places here (in Delhi) are beautifully done. And you also get the best food here. Wherever you go in the city, you get the best food. And I love Delhi's chaat, how can I not? I am half Punjabi, so I love butter and kaali daal that we get here," she says. 
 
 
  
  (BCCL)
 
  
 Ileana may have not watched the match, but Athiya managed to watch the last few overs. "I saw a little bit at the end but they played such a good game. Their energy on the field was so inspiring, it actually showed the effort that they had put in the game. It broke my heart that our team lost the match but I am so proud that the entire nation supported and cheered for them. This will surely open many doors for women in sports. I hope they know that they we are proud of them," she says.
 
 
 
