JAIPUR: The need to reduce infant mortality rate ( ) rapidly has prompted health department to target where it is needed the most. It has decided to focus more on saving lives of under-28 days children as majority of infants (under one year) die before they complete four weeks of their lives.

 The health department has launched   programme in eight districts - Udaipur, Jalore, Karauli, Barmer, Rajsamand, Jodhpur, Sirohi and   aiming to bring down neo-natal (under-28-days infants) mortality rate (NMR) in the state.
 
 The percentage of neonatal deaths to infant deaths in the state is 69.8%, says, Centre’s Sample Registration System (SRS) report 2015. The health department is aiming to reduce NMR which will directly help reducing IMR significantly.
 
 In these districts, the health department will improve healthcare facilities for under-28 day infants (neonates). The NMR in the state is 30 deaths per 1000 live births. It is slightly higher than the national average, which is 25 deaths per 1000 live births.
 
  is one of the states having highest NMR. A health department official said that in these identified districts, the health department will make focussed approach on reducing NMR.
 
 Under Chirayu, the health department will strengthen its healthcare services for neonates at sick newborn care units (SNCUs). Also, the health department will also focus on operationalize C-section points in districts to ensure that the pregnant women with complication receive caesarean deliveries facility immediately at the time of need.
 
 Under the programme, the health department will emphasis more on providing referral transport. They will ensure availability of vehicles for pregnant women. They will conduct line-listed tracking of deliveries and neo-natal deaths. They will conduct still births and neo-natal death review. The health department will take punitive action for worse performing community workers. The most important aspect of Chirayu programme is to prepare an action plan to prevent deaths.
 
 The health department will take strict action against ANMs who will fail to perform under Chirayu programme which include withholding of increments. Also, officials will face action if they provide incorrect data reporting.
 
 In eight districts, the health department will focus on transforming the practices and infrastructure. Also, Chirayu programme is aimed at improving team behaviour in a holistic manner rather than one area.
 
 Officials said that they will work with an objective to achieve ultimate objective to translate investments into the results for saving lives of neonates.
 
