KOLKATA: An apparently innocuous advice from the head of the state became a   on Thursday with the ruling Trinamool training its guns at   like the Left did after the   nearly 10 years ago in March 2007. 

  Governor Kesharai Nath Tripathi while responding to a question on the attack on the state BJP headquarters in Kolkata soon after Trinamool Lok Sabha leader Sudip Bandyopadhyay’s arrest, said: “Every state, irrespective of political attachment, should try to ensure peace in the state and maintain law and order.” The governor didn’t name any state neither did he comment on the prevailing situation in West Bengal.
 
 While BJP leader Rahul Sinha welcomed the governor’s statement saying that Tripathi had advised the state government to discharge raj dharma, Trinamool secretary general and minister Partha Chatterjee feared that BJP was trying to use the governor’s office. The Left also didn’t spare the governor for “breaking silence” only after the BJP party offices and leaders came under attack. 
 
 Political parties read between the lines of his statement giving political connotations to the context in which the governor made the statement. The governor’s comment comes two days after the attack on state BJP headquarters on Tuesday evening, and a day after men carrying Trinamool flags mobbed Union minister Babul Supriyo’s Kolkata home and also led a siege to BJP party offices in Durgapur and Hooghly. The violence apart from the bedlam in city continued even on Thursday, the recent being the attack on state BJP president Dilip Ghosh’s house. All these caught the notice of Union home minister   who in turn called the state BJP president and asked him to lodge separate FIRs on each of these attacks. The Union home department has asked for an action taken report for all these cases.
 
 The continuing violence without any arrest so far doesn’t speak well of the state’s law and order. Such a situation also blunts the state government’s writing to the Union home ministry against the deployment of CRPF jawans at the state BJP office on the day of the incident without the state government’s consent. On the contrary, the Union home minister’s taking interest in the happenings in West Bengal has prompted the police brass at Lalbazar to take guard. Setting aside the usual nonchalance over the last two days, Lalbazar has fortified the BJP party offices and the residence of the leaders across the state, and are likely to make some arrests before sending a report to Nabanna. The state government also wants the police to take action before it sends the action taken report to the Union home ministry. 
 
 Mamata Banerjee as opposition leader had witnessed such wrangling match between the BJP government at the Centre and the Left Front government in West Bengal in 1998-99 during the violence in Keshpur, Nanoor, Suchpur when the Atal Bihari Vajpayee government had sent a central team to Bengal to take stock of the ground reality.
 
 State parliamentary affairs minister Partha Chatterjee thus doesn’t want to open yet another front of confrontation with Raj Bhavan. “The government has no problems with the present governor. We may have differences at times but some people are trying to take it too far. I had a talk with the governor even today,” Chatterjee said, adding that his party isn’t in a mood to burn bridges with Raj Bhavan.
 
 
