Fine unbeaten half centuries by skipper   (69) and   (63) guided   to a comfortable eight-wicket win over  . With this win, Hyderabad became the second team to enter the playoffs. Chasing 155, Hyderabad (158/2) romped home with 11 balls to spare in Match 53 of the IPL 10 at the Green Park Stadium in Kanpur on Saturday. 

 Gujarat, who posted 154, looked well on course to post a target of over 200 after their openers Ishan Kishan (61) and Dwayne Smith (54) put on a blazing 111-run stand for the opening wicket but a fine bowling display by Hyderabad's Mohammed Siraj (4/32) and Rashid Khan (3/34) restricted them to 154 all out.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Openers Kishan and Smith gave Gujarat a blazing start as they raced to 61 for no loss after the end of six overs. Kishan, who scored his maiden IPL 50 off 27 balls with the help of four sixes and same number of boundaries, was the aggressor of the two. Kishan dispatched Siraj for the first six of the match, in the second over, with a fine pull over the deep backward square leg fielder. He hit a massive six and a four to Siddarth Kaul in the next over and then once again whacked Siraj, in his second spell, for back-to-back fours. On the other hand, Smith, who found the occasional boundaries, tonked Mohammed Nabi, who gave away just two runs in his first over, for a six and four in the last over of the Powerplay. Smith, who hit a quickfire 31-ball fifty, hammered Rashid for a six and a four in the ninth over of the innings to lead Gujarat's run charge. Gujarat scored 100 in just 9.3 overs. With a century stand, Smith and Kishan laid a solid foundation for the home side.
 
 
 
 
 Leg-spinner Rashid provided Hyderabad a much-needed breakthrough, which eventually triggered a mid-innings collapse, when he got rid of Smith, who scored 54 off 33 balls, by trapping him right in front of the wicket. Gujarat lost their first wicket at the score of 111 (10.5 overs) and were soon tottering at 123/5 (13.5), losing four quick wickets for 12 runs in a span of just three overs. That's 43 runs scored for the loss of 10 wickets. Siraj then dismissed dangerman Kishan who was caught for 61 off 40 balls. Kishan looked to dispatch the bowler over the midwicket boundary but got a top edge that was easily pouched by wicketkeeper Naman Ojha. Two wickets in two balls brought SRH back in the game as Siraj scalped Gujarat skipper Suresh Raina off the last ball of the 13th over and then Rashid sent back Dinesh Karthik in the very next delivery. Siraj, who was in great form, picked up two more wickets off consecutive balls to give SRH the upper hand. He cleaned up James Faulkner and Pradeep Sangwan each with a peach of a delivery.
 
 
 
 
 111 for no loss in 10.4 overs is a great start for any team but the worst was yet to come for Gujarat. They lost their first wicket at the score of 111 and were then bundled out for 154 in 19.2 overs. The scores of 54 and 61 from the openers Smith and Kishan and an unbeaten 20 by Ravindra Jadeja were the three double-digit scores in Gujarat's innings. The blazing start ended abysmally as four batsmen registered ducks while the remaining four collectively managed 13 runs.
 
 
 
 
 Defending 154 against a batting heavy side as Sunrisers was always going to be a daunting task for Gujarat bowlers but they held their nerves as Praveen Kumar gave two denting blows to Hyderabad in his second over, third of the innings. He first got rid of Shikhar Dhawan off the very first ball. Dhawan wanted to go for a big heave to an offcutter but could only get the toe end of his bat. The ball went to mid-on where Faulkner took a well judged catch diving forward. Praveen struck again to get rid of Moises Henriques off the last ball of the over. A good length delivery outside the off stump but Henriques, who wanted to hit through the off side, nicked it to wicketkeeper Dinesh Karthik.
 
 
 
 
 Warner and Shankar put on an unbeaten 133-run stand off 91 balls for the third wicket to guide their team to playoffs. Warner played a fine knock of 69 off 42 balls with the help of nine boundaries while Shankar scored a 44-ball 63 that included nine boundaries too. Both batsmen didn't score a single six and instead dealt in boundaries. Warner took it upon himself to see Sunrisers through after losing Dhawan and Henriques early. The diminutive Aussie played some fine cuts and drives and ran hard between the wickets. Shankar combined well with Warner to deny Gujarat any further breakthroughs.
 
