NEW DELHI: East Delhi’s reeking streets are only a visual symbol of the battle between AAP-led Delhi government and BJP-led municipal corporations over financial management. In this fight, no side is likely to yield till the municipal polls, scheduled in April, get over.

 BJP has always accused   of “dirty politics” in not providing financial assistance to the three civic bodies, which has led to salaries being delayed and forced sanitation workers to go on strike. Financial aid was something that was promised at the time the singular MCD was trifurcated into three bodies for south, north and  , the party claims.
 
 With an eye on the municipal elections, the strike is already a part of electoral rhetoric. Delhi BJP chief   said on Saturday, “In the past two years, the Kejriwal government has tried to cripple the functioning of the corporations by not releasing financial assistance on time.” AAP’s Delhi covenor Dilip Pandey promptly refuted this and said, “East Corporation has 34-35 lakh registered houses, but only 25% of them are in its tax net. Its parking policy is a failure and ad revenue-earning processes are a scam. All corporations have failed completely in revenue collection.”
 
 BJP leader Vijender Gupta, leader of the opposition in the Delhi assembly, maintained that had the state government implemented the recommendations of the   (DFC) in time, the corporations would have become financially viable by now. When Gupta took the matter to Delhi high court on the matter, the judges had directed the Kejriwal government to table the Fourth DFC report in the assembly and constitute the fifth commission.
 
 On Saturday, when TOI enquired about the implementation of the report, a Delhi government spokesperson claimed that the recommendations had been implemented “but only to the extent that the state could, such as releasing the global share”. He said that the DFC proposals could not be fully adopted because the central government had not agreed to the request to hike Delhi’s share in central taxes.
 
 The corporations point out that the civic bodies’ share in Delhi’s taxes should have gone up from 5.5% to 12% under the Fourth DFC. In 2015, when the sanitation staff went on strike for the first time, the government refused to release the global share to the corporations on the ground that they had not carried out municipal reforms. However, since then the government has given Rs 806 crore to the North and East Corporations as loan and global share.
 
 Amid this, the Congress is all too eager to roil the electoral waters. On Saturday, Delhi Congress president Ajay Maken characterised the crisis in the corporations as the result of the ego clash between BJP and AAP and jibed, “PM   gloats about his Swachh Bharat Abhiyan and AAP’s electoral symbol is the broom, yet sanitation workers have to resort to strikes to get their wages.” 
 
 
