KOLKATA: In a move that will increase government supervision in colleges and universities, the   government is all set to set up a   to adjudicate disciplinary matters against employees. Teachers, non-teaching staff and officers with disciplinary proceedings drawn up against them will get a dedicated legal platform to argue their case if they are aggrieved with an institution’s decision. 

 Once the system is in place, colleges and universities will hold inquiries and send their findings to the   body along with documents for a final order. The new system forms a part of the proposed rules to come under the   and Colleges (Administration and Regulation) Act 2017.
 
 The new system marks a departure from the existing procedure in which such decisions are being taken by the highest administrative bodies of the university — Syndicate or The Executive Council. The university statute clearly lays down the procedure of inquiry in such matters with the vice-chancellor holding such disciplinary proceedings. The findings, along with the recommendations for punishment are placed before the Syndicate or Executive Council. People aggrieved with the university’s decision are free to move court.
 
 The setting up of the appellate tribunal is likely to bring down options of the aggrieved individuals for moving court. According to government sources, the new mechanism will help the government achieve a common legal redress process for all colleges and universities, putting an end to the diverse rules existing in universities.
 
 “Colleges affiliated to universities have diverse norms related to the appeal procedure. As a result, punishment for a similar offence is not always uniform. On occasions, universities have exonerated the accused found guilty by college authorities. In some cases, teachers complained that university bodies have played favourites in punishment delivery. The appellate tribunal’s decision will be final in such cases,” an official said.
 
 Some of the Left-affiliated teacher organisations have resented the government decision on the ground that setting up of an appellate tribunal is a curb on university autonomy. “The tribunal will take away the power of the Syndicates and the Executive Councils. Secondly, it will also bring down the aggrieved individual’s option to move court,” said Juta secretary Nilanjana Gupta.
 
 West Bengal College and University Teachers’ Association secretary   fears the new system won’t deliver justice to employees. “Like the state administrative tribunal, the one for colleges and universities may also be used to marginalise the dissenting voice. I fear that coming under the direct influence of the government, the tribunal won’t be able to discharge its duties in an unbiased manner. What is worse, the new system will take away the rights of the aggrieved party to move the court,” Praharaj said. 
 
 
