PATNA: The income-tax (I-T) department has sent notices to a number of businessmen in Patna and elsewhere in the state to divulge information on source of large cash deposits made in the   of November 9 and December 30 last year.

 Senior officials in   in Patna said notices were sent by the New Delhi headquarters as part of ‘Operation Clean Money’.
 
 “Around 18 lakh persons have been identified across the country in whose cases, cash transactions do not appear to be in line with the taxpayer’s profile. Hence, notices have been sent through text messages on their cellphone and e-mail. Such people have been asked to verify the details of large transactions using the income tax e-filing portal within 10 days,” said  , officer on special duty at I-T department, Patna. 
 
 Rajesh Kumar Khetan, chairman of Patna branch of Institute of   of India (ICAI), claimed that a sense of fear has gripped the business community in Patna. “People started receiving the notices from last night and I got many calls from morning. Many small scale traders like shopkeepers, who have legitimately conducted their business and deposited their sales deposits every day in the banks, have also been served notices. The market witnessed a slight surge in sales immediately after the announcement of demonetisation and the sales revenue from that period as well is also being questioned,” said Khetan. 
 
 The I-T department has made available a detailed user guide and quick reference guide on its portal – https://incometaxindiaefiling.gov.in – to assist the taxpayer in submitting online response. A helpline number –1800 4250 0025 – has also been issued for answering the queries in case of any difficulty in submitting online response. 
 
 The I-T officials said the response of taxpayers having been served notices will be assessed against information submitted by them through the e-filing portal. In case explanation of source of cash is found justified, the verification will be closed without any need to visit I-T office. Besides, the verification will be closed if the cash deposit is declared under Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojna (PMGKY).
 
 Sources claimed that persons who have deposited Rs 10 lakh or above or suspicious transactions between Rs 3 to 5 lakh in the   period, or having poor tax compliance have been sent notices by the I-T department in the first phase of ‘Operation Clean Money’. The accounts have been selected where deposits don’t match tax profiles with the I-T department.
 
