GURGAON: There is a growing perception that while the state   government is pushing hard to put   (GMDA) in place, it might be derailing the democratically elected MCG. Several members of the bureaucracy, where resistance for the new administrative body is stiff, claim the government lacks enthusiasm about holding  , which has been pending since June last year.

 Knowing that MCG elections were due in June 2016, the government formed an ad-hoc committee to redraw ward boundaries, which delayed the process. And the matter is now pending in court. “If the government was serious about holding elections on time, the ad-hoc committee should have been formed in 2015, at least six months before the polls were scheduled. Instead, it was formed after June 2016, and that too with a serious flaw — all five members belong to BJP. It was easy to predict someone would challenge this in court, and the process would get delayed, as has happened,” said an official in Chandigarh.
 
 Members of opposition parties claim BJP is purposefully derailing the democratic process. “It’s alarming the way BJP is trying to further consolidate control over Gurgaon through unelected GMDA, while trying to pass it off as an administrative solution to Gurgaon’s problems. When the world over, cities are governed by decentralised local city councillors and mayors, Gurgaon’s local government, the MCG, is being weakened,” said former councillor Nisha Singh. She added, “The BJP government is exercising direct control of MCG and its finances since June last year, when the term of the first elected MCG house ended — which was its agenda right from the beginning. In the process, democratic principles and rights of citizens to a local city government are being thwarted with impunity. Courts are a mute spectator, and so are we, residents of this city, who have no voice in its governance.”
 
 Others like Bhawani Shankar Tripathi, member of  , a pressure group, said constitutional rights of citizens are being denied. “MCG is not a maintenance agency. As per the 74th Constitutional amendment, MCG is an institution of local governance, with elected people’s representatives. It ensures people’s participation in development decisions that impact their lives. Delaying MCG polls means denying citizens their democratic right to participate in governance. GMDA will be an infrastructure development agency, with specific role. It cannot be equal to or replace a people’s organisation like MCG,” he said.
 
 Gurgaon BJP MLA  , who is at loggerheads with his own party and chief minister, put the blame squarely on the leadership. “The party leadership should be blamed for the inordinate delay in holding MCG polls,” he said. Gurgaon MP Rao Inderjit Singh, also of BJP, said he will ask the chief minister to expedite the process so that residents get a voice.
 
  secretary of the urban local bodies department, Anand Mohan Sharan, could not be contacted. MCG commissioner V Umashankar, who is also the officer on special duty of GMDA, said the next court hearing on May 26 holds the key on when MCG elections can take place. “Residents of Gurgaon deserve an elected body. The matter is in court and the next hearing is on May 26. If the court decides the new ward delimitation is null and void, elections can take place almost immediately,” he said.
 
 Even residents have questioned the way the ad-hoc committee was formed and how they marked new ward boundaries, but particularly the intent of the BJP government in pushing hard a GMDA, which will be run by its chosen bureaucrats. 
 
 “Earlier, we at least had the option of going to the local councillor with our complaints, but for the past year, even that option is gone. Also, I feel there’s some conflict of interest as the same official is heading both MCG and GMDA. The government should immediately appoint a full-time municipal commissioner, who will work towards resolving and addressing problems of residents,” said Ankit Kapoor, a Sector 14 resident.
 
 
