THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Justifying early screening for cancer in patients suffering from diabetes, a research centre from Kerala has come out with a retrospective data suggesting a higher likelihood of incidence of cancer among  .

 Presented at the ` Advanced Technologies and Treatments in Diabetes', one of the major   technology conventions, held in Paris last week, the `insights' from electronic medical records (EMR) at  's Diabetes Research Centre, revealed that cancers of the liver, pancreas and prostate were predominant among males with diabetes, while breast cancer was found to be more common among females suffering from diabetes.
 
 A total of 1,324 patients were screened at the centre between 2014 and 2016, and 2.95% of them were diagnosed with cancer. The type of cancers detected were breast cancer (21.51%); cancer in pancreas (2.82%); cancer in liver (10.26%), prostrate cancer (10.26%); 7.69% each of multiple myeloma, carcinoma of colonintestine and stomach and 2.56% each of cancers affecting gallbladder, lung, kidney , uterus, endometrium, oral cancer and non-Hodgkins lymphoma. Carcinoma of prostrate, liver and pancreas (16% each) were predominant among males whereas that of breast (42.86%) was predominant among females.
 
 “The screening led to early detection at a curable stage, making it an economically viable step. Despite the expensive nature of cancer diagnostic tests, incorporating them into routine diabetes treatment protocol may be justifiable,“ the presentation pointed out.
 
 Though this retrospective analysis does not determine causes, the already published statistics for diabetes care show a two-fold higher risk of cancer of pancreas, liver and ovary in diabetic patients, while for the rest of cancer types the risk is 1.2 to 1.5-fold higher.
 
 “However, there are genetic studies pointing at similar risk factors for some of the cancer types like pancreatic cancer, rectal cancer and breast cancer. Both diabetes and cancer share genes and common risk factors including sedentary lifestyle, smoking, unhealthy food habits and intake of saturated fats and lack of exercise,“ said leading researcher Dr   .
 
 Besides the analysis, which is contradictory to the global assumption that diabetes prevents prostate cancer, has thrown light into an `Indian situation'. “Prostate cancer is linked to high levels of male hormone ­ testosterone. In male population here, as per our finding, the testosterone levels do not come down that low when they become diabetic. May be their sexual desire, neurological functions and other capabilities are reduced but testosterone levels still remain normal or high,“ Dr Jothydev said.
 
 For a patient, to carry out tests to detect all the cancer biomarkers, it might cost between Rs 4,000 to Rs 4,500.“The insurance companies do not promote these tests, while we cannot make these tests mandatory . However, the patients are now asking for it.Those who got diagnosed at an early stage are thankful to us for our successful intervention,“ said  , who had presented the study at the convention.
 
 “It's just our observation we presented, without any cost-effective analysis or any in-depth study on correlating factors. But, screening for cancer among diabetes patients carries great significance,“ she added.
 
