PUNE: The cybercrime branch of the Pune police arrested a 24-year-old from New Delhi for allegedly  . With this arrest, police claim to have solved two cases of cheating.

 The suspect,  , a native of Banda in Uttar Pradesh, was arrested by   and his team.
 
 According to the police, the suspect managed a fake job portal, and ran a three-man call centre in Delhi.
 
 On January 8, 33-year-old Pramod Bhavarlal Thakur of Budhwar Peth, one of the victims, complained to the police that he fell victim to a job scam.
 
 In his complaint, Thakur said a tele-caller in June last year claimed that his resume was selected by a prominent automobile company , and that she required money for various processing fees and charges. Over the next two onths, Thakur transferred Rs1.66 lakh to the account numbers the caller gave him.
 
 He realized he was taken for a ride when no job offer was re ceoved even after several months, and went to the police.
 
 Vishal Laxman Phalke from Kothrud too was prey to a similar scam, and lost Rs.2.29 lakh in the process. Over the course of their investigations, the cops traced all the transactions and phone numbers to New Delhi, where they eventually nabbed the suspect.
 
 A year ago, Tripathi -an MCom graduate -was laid off from his job as a customer care executive of a prominent travel company . On the advice of a friend, he registered on a job portal, and soon started receiving calls from different recruitment agents, who would ask for nominal fees to process his resume.
 
 That was how he came upon the idea to scam people by starting a fake job portal.
 
 “He also paid money to a registered job portal and laid his hands on jobseekers' data,“ the police said.
 
 
 
 With curbs being imposed on ATM withdrawals after the demonetisation move, Tripathi demanded that the money be transferred to an e-wallet, from where he routed it to his account, or used it to shop online, said the police.
 
 
 
 
 Police on Saturday registered two more job fraud cases, at Bhosari and Wanowrie.
 
 Seven people were booked by the Bhosari police for allegedly duping a 32-year-old woman in September last. Pramila Ozarkar was contacted by the suspects, who claimed to represent a job portal. Claiming her resume was selected by a firm, they demanded money to process the application. Over three months, Ozarkar transferred Rs.1.05 lakh to the suspects' bank accounts.When she didn't get the offer letter, she approached the police.
 
 In a similar case, Wanowrie police booked unidentified persons for allegedly duping 26-year-old Rohit Ambep out of Rs.1.05 lakh in August last year. TNN
 
