In a landmark judgment protecting the interest of minority shareholders, the Madras high court has held that there was oppression in the conduct of the majority promoter group in the Chennai-based SV Global (SVG) Mill, which was carved out of the 200-year-old textiles major   . “The understanding and trust, which had remained steadfast for nearly three decades, was breached when S Natarajan was not renominated to the board of  ,“ the HC ruled in an appeal filed by the majority promoters against the   (CLB) order.

 Natarajan -who is also part of the Shriram group and is one of the original promoters of SVG -had moved the CLB after a feud among the promoters dating back to September 2014, when a resolution to reappoint him as director was defeated by the other promoter group of M Ethirajan and his associates. In disposing of the company petition in March 2016, the CLB had directed the majority promoter group of M Ethirajan to buy out, and if they do not have the resources, then for SVG itself to buy out Natarajan's shares at fair value.
 
 Binny Mills and SV Global were demerged from Binny in 2012. The shares of Binny Mills and SV Global Mill were listed on the bourses in May 2013. While three promoter groups walked away with controlling stake in the three entities Binny Limited, Binny Mills and SV Global, Natarajan got about 19% stake in each company .
 
 In upholding the case of minority shareholders, Justice Rajiv Shakdher wrote in his 142-page order, “The coexistence of Natarajan with the appel lants (majority promoters) can only be construed as oppressive, that is, harsh and burdensome, and since appellants are in majority , the oppression could only be on the minority , which includes the Natarajan block.The failure to reappoint Natarajan on the board of directors of SVG is only the beginning of the oppression.“
 
 The HC also ruled the majority promoter group to fund the buyout and released the obligations of SVG to pitch in if they failed to do so. The court upheld that quasi-partnership principles will apply to even listed companies like SVG, when it is majorly controlled by substantial promoter groups.
 
 The HC went on to castigate the board of SVG for poor corporate governance in allotting its   property as residence to its managing director,  . “Quite clearly , this ( ) standard was not met by the board of SVG and, therefore, to that extent, it failed to live up to the standards of corporate governance, which are expected of listed companies,“ the judge observed.
 
 Recently, Sebi chairman Ajay Tyagi was also sharply critical of existing corporate governance practices, and had said “independent directors are not independent“. There are people appointing friends just to “fulfil the requirement of Companies Act (and) Sebi's listing regulations is not at all working ... One needs to really think through these“. 
 
