When Hyderabadis complain about the ‘rising cost of living’ these days, they may not be talking about soaring house rent, petrol price or even school fees. All that’s par for the course. What's really pinching our pockets is the  , apparently due to short supply and the recent farmer strike. Priced 
anywhere between Rs 80 to Rs 100 a kilo, the humble veggie (scientifically, a fruit) that flavours everything from the daily tomato pappu and pachchadi to the quick-fix tomato rice, has suddenly become out of bounds. Hyderabadis, who are watching their grocery budgets, are thinking twice before going chop, chop, chop. 
 
 
 
 Gachibowli resident   says, “When I went veggie shopping the other day, my eyes popped out at tomato prices. While I was studying in the US, that’s how much a pound of tomatoes used to cost. Back then, I used to survive on tomato and cheese sandwiches, only without so many tomatoes. Now, it feels like I am back to those days. That means no more fancy bruschettas, green salads and pasta in red sauce for some time. And definitely no tomato rasam or pappu either.” 
 
 
 
 For funnyman  , the silver lining in the price crisis is that he can ditch the healthy tomato soup that his wife forces him to have. “I can now demand chicken soup! Imagine a situation where you go out for dinner and order tomato-ey dishes, or ask the grocer for a large quantity of tomatoes; they might just ask for my Aadhar and PAN card to find out my source of income. Or there will come a day when income tax people conduct raids for red money instead of black, if this price hike continues unabated,” he says. 
 Comedian Sai Kiran “welcomes the price rise” because he would “not have to fear angry audiences hitting him with tomatoes” if he cracks bad jokes.
 
 
 
 Even for stand-up comics, who are wired to see humour even in the gloomiest of situations, the tomato price hike isn’t really funny. “My tomato daal looks more yellow than red now, and the other day, the waiter at my favourite pub gave me ‘that look’ when I asked for extra salsa. My cousin told me she has stopped adding tomato to her face-pack,” says comedian  , and is quick to mention the only upside of the price hike: “At least there won’t be that ridiculous desi version of Tomatina festival this year.”   confesses that her husband has suggested that she replace her natural tomato face-pack with ketchup until the prices normalise.
 
