PIMPRI CHINCHWAD:   chief Sharad Pawar made an emotional appeal in Pimpri Chinchwad on Saturday and asked voters to re-elect the party to power in the municipal corporation. 

 At a public meeting in Old Sangvi, Pawar said, “I have been elected by you to the Vidhan Sabha seven times and another seven times to  . You gave me everything, made me chief minister of the state four times. You made me the Union defence minister as well as Union agriculture minister. You have elected me for 50 years. Now, it is my responsibility to give back to you by working to make your lives better. We are preparing a team of people for this, you vote for them and elect them here.”
 
 He was speaking in support of NCP candidates contesting from panel wards 29, 30, 31 and 32. These wards are located in the Sangvi-Pimple Gurav belt of Chinchwad assembly constituency, which is represented by Chinchwad BJP MLA Laxman Jagtap and is considered his stronghold. 
 
 Pawar also attacked Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the Union government for poor implementation of demonetisation. He said, “People who were elected to power have brought misery to the people. Such people are now demanding votes from you.”
 
 Pawar also emphasised the need for knowledge centres for the development of Pimpri Chinchwad. “Industrialization changed the face of Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad cities. If we have to go ahead, then we need to focus on education.” 
 
 The senior leader also made a scathing attack on chief minister Devendra Fadnavis and said, “I have seen all chief ministers of the state from 1967. But I have not seen any like the present one. He gives big speeches but does he know all the talukas in the state and its people like me? CM must know the problems of the entire state. Anyone who is CM needs to take efforts to keep the state united.” 
 
 Making a veiled attack on Laxman Jagtap, Pawar said, “Ajit Pawar gave all posts of mayor, chairman of standing committee, MLA and MLC to him. But when NCP lost power, he left the party. It is good that he left because now, real party workers will get opportunities to prosper. NCP today stands tall due to the efforts of these real workers.”
 
 
