CHENNAI: The   is two months away, but storage in 15 major   in the state has fallen to 8% of their total capacity. Stanley reservoir in Mettur, the lifeline of Cauvery delta, has only 7% water and causes worry to water managers because half of the combined water supply schemes of the government depend on Cauvery as its source and one round of wetting of river bed is essential to sustain the supply.

 While the government has taken measures on a war footing to mitigate the   situation, the dwindling storage in the water bodies is only worsening the problem.   Water Supply and Drainage Board has reduced the supply to 75% and requested public works department, the custodian of the reservoirs, to get the river beds wet to maintain the quantum of supply. Water from Mullaperiyar, Bhavanisagar, Sathanur, Papanasam and Manimuthur dams was released recently, upon appeals to sustain the supply as the situation is worsening in urban and rural local bodies that depend on 547 combined water supply schemes.
 
 Mettur storage, as on Friday, stood at 6.5tmcft (thousand million cubic feet), as against a total capacity of 93.4tmcft. There was an outflow of 500 cusecs into the river. Last time the storage fell so badly was on June 25, 2013, where it touched 2.89tmcft. Cauvery water caters to at least ten districts, including Salem, Erode and Namakkal in the western belt and the delta region. The situation in upstream reservoirs of Karnataka is no different. The four reservoirs across Cauvery - Krishnaragajasagar, Kabini, Harangi and Hemavathi - have a combined storage of 19tmcft – 16% of total capacity.
 
 Down south, Vaigai has only 4% of its capacity and outflow is maintained at 40 cusecs to ensure that the drinking water supply is uninterrupted in southern districts of Theni, Dindigul and Madurai. “On our request, Mullaperiyar in the upstream releases 225 cusecs a day to see that outflow from Vaigai is maintained,” said a senior TWAD official. The original quantum of supply from Mullaperiyar is 34MLD. Bhavanisagar and Sathanur dams too released water recently to manage the crisis in Erode, Tiruvannamalai and Villupuram districts. Currently, the board works on mitigation plans such as digging infiltration wells and bore wells at 400 sites across the state to augment supply by another 100 million litres a day. While 150 sources have been connected to the schemes, the rest are in various stages of completion.
 
 
