PATNA: Rape accused automobile showroom owner  , along with his father and retired IAS official  , was arrested from Pauri Garhwal district in   on Tuesday.
 
  A Dalit girl, who is the daughter of a senior Congress leader in Bihar, had lodged an FIR against Nikhil, his father, brother Manish Priyadarshi and Nikhil’s friend Sanjeet Kumar Sharma for sexually exploiting and thrashing her. Later, former Bihar Congress Vice-President Brajesh Pandey’s name also cropped up in the case. Pandey’s anticipatory bail petition is scheduled to be heard on March 17.
  
  Pauri Garhwal SSP Mukhtar Mohsin told TOI over phone that they were arrested during regular checking at Chila Barrage check post under   police station on Tuesday morning. The duo was travelling in a high-end car bearing Bihar registration number.
  
  “They were nervous when the police stopped them during regular checking. The vehicle is registered in the name of Nikhil Priyadarshi, who was driving the car. During the verification of his car’s registration number, Nikhil’s name flashed as a person wanted by Bihar police after which Patna SSP Manu Maharaaj was contacted,” Mohsin said.
  
  He said they were taken to the police station after the Patna SSP confirmed that the duo was wanted by Bihar police in a rape case. Mohsin said they were perhaps looking for a hotel in the locality when police arrested them.
  
  Uttarakhand ADG (law and order)   said over phone that both were not carrying any identity proof and Bihar police had already informed every state police about Nikhil.
  
  SSP Maharaaj said a four-member team was on way to Uttarakhand to bring the duo to Patna on transit remand. “Both will be brought to Patna on Wednesday,” he said.
  
  The girl had lodged the FIR with SC/ST police station in Patna on December 22 last year and alleged that she had been sexually exploited since January 2016 when she was a minor.
  
  Later, Congress man Pandey’s name also cropped up and he has moved a petition in the special court of Prevention of Children from Sexual Offences Act ( ) for anticipatory bail. The special court of judge Parwez Alam has already rejected the anticipatory bail petition of the four accused.
  
  Meanwhile, a special investigation team of CID formed to investigate the case arrested Nikhil’s brother Manish from Patna airport on Friday. “Manish said he had gone to the airport to see off someone,” said a police officer adding that he was sent to jail on Saturday.
