GHAZIABAD: It was all over in three minutes. An ambulance, which had carried a body from   to Azamgarh, was returning to Delhi. It was 4.45 in the morning. A mini-truck, trying to take a right turn at Lal Quan in Ghaziabad, braked suddenly. The ambulance crashed into the truck. Ravi, 35, was driving the ambulance. Seated beside him was Narender, 28, the owner of the ambulance. Ravi was hurt, Narender got off to pull Ravi out. And just then, another mini-truck came and crashed into the ambulance and ran over Narender. 

 None of this would have happened, after such a long journey, and so close to home, had the first mini-truck not braked suddenly to make a U-turn through an unauthorised median cut on the highway. Ravi is in a critical state in a Delhi hospital.
 
 The two, Narender and Ravi, were rushed to hospital by PCR personnel who reached the spot immediately. They were assisted by a volunteer of Ghaziabad Civil Defence, Anil Sarin, who was driving past the   spot on a scooter for early morning traffic duty on NH-24.
 
 “The driver of the first mini-truck had got off and was walking towards the ambulance to check upon its injured occupants. However, when a second mini-truck mowed down one of the ambulance occupants, he tried to escape with his vehicle. Since one of the wheels of his vehicle got deflated in the accident, he couldn’t drive fast. I accelerated behind the truck on my scooter and managed to get hold of the driver. However, the driver managed to loosen my grip and fled from the spot leaving the truck behind. I handed over the mini-truck’s keys and papers to police later,” Sarin told TOI.
 
 The driver of the second mini-truck had already fled the spot.
 
 Ravi was rushed to Columbia Asia hospital near Bamheta on NH-24 where he was administered first aid. Later, his relatives rushed him to the trauma centre of Safdarjang Hospital in Delhi. “Ravi underwent a surgery at the hospital. He is yet to regain consciousness. Doctors have told us that his condition is critical,” his sister, Sunita, told TOI.
 
 Narender was taken to MMG Hospital in Ghaziabad where he was declared brought dead. His body was handed over to family members after post-mortem. 
 
 Narender lived in Suman Colony in Chhatarpur, Delhi, while Ravi lived with his family in Behta Hajipur of Loni. 
 
 “We are awaiting a written complaint from victims’ family members in order to register an FIR. Both the trucks have been seized from the spot. We are trying to determine their ownership and trace the drivers,” said Neeraj Singh, SHO, Kavi Nagar police station.
 
 The first truck bears a Haryana registration number while the second truck has a UP registration number, said witnesses.
 
 IN 3 MINUTES, 2 ACCIDENTS
 
 4.45am A white mini-truck on way to Delhi, brakes suddenly to take a right turn through an unauthorised median cut near Lal Quan on NH-24. A Maruti Eeco ambulance crashes into the rear of the mini-truck. Amublance driver, Ravi, hurt and trapped 
 
 4.47am Ambulance owner, Narender, gets off and tries to pull Ravi out
 
 4.48am Another mini-truck comes from behind, crashes into the ambulance, runs over Narender
 
 4.50am Driver of second truck flees leaving the vehicle behind
 
 4.54am PCR arrives at the spot
 
 4.56am Ravi taken to Columbia Asia Hospital, later shifted to Safdarjang Hospital in Delhi
 
 4.57am Narender taken to MMG Hospital in Delhi where he is declared brought dead
 
 
