JAIPUR: Life came a full circle for   on Friday. The Jaipur-based para-athlete won the javelin gold in F46 category on the opening day of the   in London, India's first in the tournament. It was a redemption of sorts for the 22-year old, coming 10 months after a dramatic disqualification at the Rio Paralympic Games. 

 Gurjar had been training inside the stadium and yet had failed to hear his name being called out for reporting. Rather, he had failed to decipher the accent with which his name was being called. He was around two minutes late, but that was good enough for him to be disqualified in the even that was won by another city-based para-athlete  . "The disappointment of Rio is quite fresh," Gurjar said after his throw of 60.36m earned him the London gold. That was over 3 metres short of Jhajharia's world record, a gap that Gurjar feels he can easily bridge. Incidentally,   had won gold in the same event in 2013. This time he gave the meet a miss.
 
 "We always knew he would win the gold," Gurjar's coach   said. "The question was whether he would be able to improve on the world record." The coach informed that Gurjar was carrying an ankle injury which he had sustained during training. "That hampered him."
 
 The para-athlete will also compete in shot put as well as discus throw. "Had he been concentrating only on javelin, his throws would have been much better," Mahavir added. Even though the London mark is his personal best, Gurjar's camp claims he was throwing around 72m during practice before the Rio Games. "I was much better prepared for Rio than here,"Gurjar said. He was the dark horse then, but in London, he was among the favourites.
 
 Another Indian, Rinku, missed the podium in this event by a small margin. His personal best of 55.12m was a little over a metre short of bronze medallist China's  's effort. Rinku had finished fifth in Rio.
 
 Gurjar spoke of an ankle twist during the first throw, which sowed seeds of doubt in his mind. However, hitting the 59m mark with the next throw brought back his confidence. The best came in the fourth throw.
 
 Gurjar had been competing regularly on the junior circuit till a freak accident left him with a amputated left wrist in December 2015. An iron rod fell on the wrist while he was resting. He overcame the disappointment with some stellar performance as a para athlete. However, even as things seemed to be working out smoothly, a whiff of sabotage hit Gurjar's life. About a month before the  , Gurjar claimed that attempts had been made to spike his juice with some banned substance. He even filed an FIR at the local police station. The case is still being investigated.
 
 And them came the Rio saga, perhaps as shattering for his morale as the loss of his hand. "He was very depressed and we found it very difficult to motivate him," Mahavir said.
 
 While Jhajharia returned home a hero, garlanded, lifted on shoulders with fans shouting his name, Gurjar slipped into Jaipur unnoticed, disillusioned and broken. Has the London gold washed away the Rio failure? Not quite, Gurjar will tell you. A medal in Tokyo 2020 (Paralympics) will be the ultimate balm.
 
