NAGPUR: A 24-year-old man was stabbed five times, and then brutally crushed twice under a garbage truck by his wife’s elder brother near Super Hygienic Disposable Company on Tuesday afternoon. Nandanvan police have registered a case and launched a manhunt for two accused.

 One of the accused, Kamlesh Dube, had eloped with Tanu (18), the sister of deceased Sumeet Kamble, around a fortnight ago. Both Dube and   were employed as drivers in the garbage handling agency Kanak Resources. The two had been close friends and resided in the same neighbourhood at Suraj Nagar. However, when Kamble came to know that Dube had been in a relationship with his sister since eight months, their friendship had turned bitter.
 
 On Tuesday, Kamble had been asked to come to the murder scene, and he went on a bike along with Rahul Deshmukh (19) and Yogiraj Sontakke. Deshmukh claimed Kamble had received an offer from Dube to resolve their differences.
 
 Deshmukh said Dube was sitting inside the truck with his cousin   (30) when the deceased and his friends reached the spot. Deshmukh had snatched away a liquor bottle from Kamble before he could use it to attack Dube. However, Dube and Shekhar stepped out of the truck, and Shekhar stabbed Kamble in the stomach and neck.
 
 “Kamble collapsed in a pool of blood. When I and Yogiraj tried to stop Shekhar, Kamble somehow managed to get up and started running away,” said Deshmukh. However, Dube immediately got into the truck and rammed into Kamble, and ran the rear wheels of the truck over his head. Dube then reversed the truck and again ran over Kamble’s body, which killed him on the spot.
 
 The Dube cousins then fled from the spot, leaving the truck behind. Yogiraj informed the control room, who dispatched Nandanvan police. An offence of murder was registered against the accused, who were absconding till the filing of the report. Cops have seized the truck and launched a manhunt to nab the duo.
 
 Cops said Tanu, studying in second year, was at her uncle’s place when her brother killed her husband. The cops would be recording her statement soon.
 
 
