PUNE: A   here has ruled that an offence of   cannot hold good against a husband and in-laws merely because the wife committed suicide.

 The charge must be backed by sufficient, cogent and dependable evidence, especially when the case is also about   by instigation to commit suicide, the court held.
 
 Additional sessions judge Mohammad Nasir M Saleem made these observations in a judgement on Wednesday while acquitting a 29-year-old techie from a prominent software company in Hinjewadi and his parents and brother in a case of cruelty and abetment of suicide. The techie’s wife hanged herself to death in their flat at Sutarwadi in Pashan on January 22, 2013 — four days before he was to leave for the USA for a company posting.
 
 Three days after her death, the woman’s father lodged a complaint with the Chatushrungi police alleging she had been subjected to cruelty by her husband and in-laws with unlawful demands, including Rs 5 lakh each for purchase of a flat in Pune and a car in the USA. He also alleged that she had been harassed by her mother-in-law for not cooking properly and her husband was reluctant to take her to the USA.
 
 The court, after examining the evidence in detail, observed that the deceased was not physically ill-treated or harassed by the accused. 
 
 “There is absolutely no evidence that any one of the accused has caused physical harm or injury to the deceased to coerce her to meet the alleged unlawful demand of money. The present case is squarely confined to the allegations relating to mental harassment,” the court said. 
 
 The court upheld defence lawyer Sudhir Shah’s argument that there was no evidence to cover the essential ingredients of cruelty and abetment of suicide as defined and explained under Sections 498-A and 306 the Indian Penal Code. “A reasonable nexus has to be established between the cruelty and the suicide in order to make good the offence of cruelty. The explanation does not make each and every harassment cruelty,” the court observed. 
 
 The two were married on May 23, 2010. After honeymoon, the couple started living in a rented flat in Pune. The techie’s parents lived in Rajkot and his brother lived in Ahmedabad. The court pointed out that the in-laws never lived with the couple in Pune. The husband also furnished evidence of the passports and visas granted to him and his wife and his plea to the company to let him go to the USA with his wife. The same was admitted by the woman’s father during cross-examination.
 
 Records of bank transactions established that the woman’s father and the accused together facilitated the demand of money from each other and this cannot be called as an unlawful demand, the court said. It further pointed to discrepancies in the statement recorded by the woman’s sister and the time lag in lodging of the FIR. 
 
