CHENNAI: In a fight for survival in the  , chief minister   is regrouping gounder leaders in the party under his leadership, by doling out government projects to their constituencies. After influencing Kavundampalayam   to defect from the OPS camp, Edappadi met former  , the original petitioner who challenged   as party general secretary before the Election Commission. Edappadi's outreach is creating ripples in the OPS camp.

 The party heavyweights from the goundar community, the politically influential bloc in the AIADMK at present, are drumming up support for Palaniswami. Incidentally, the developments came close on the heels of the MGR centenary celebrations scheduled on Saturday in Tirupur in the western belt. The Kongu leaders in the cabinet and his supporters, especially local administration minister S P Velumani, ensured that the chief minister was given a grand reception on his landing at Coimbatore airport. With senior leader K A Sengottaiyan also falling in line, the camp is all out to project EPS as a mass leader in the region. The goundar group has now set their eyes on two other MLAs PRG Arunkumar and OK Chinnaraj, both belonging to the OPS faction.
 
 Justifying his move to switch loyalty, Arukutty reeled out the projects flooding his constituency. In the recent weeks, EPS and colleagues announced a police station at Thadagam Road, a power substation, an industrial training institute and revenue divisional office in Arukutty's constituency. A high-cost bridge and hospital also have been announced and their ground breaking ceremonies will be held soon. “My people are glad and as a second time MLA, I wish to satisfy them more. EPS is leading the government efficiently,“ Arukutty said. He was the first MLA to support OPS when the latter revolted against Sasikala in February .But Arukutty says there is nothing wrong in joining EPS in the `absence' of Sasikala and TTV . If the factional leaders sit across the table, differences could be ironed out, he said.
 
 Palanisamy , a former Tiruchengode MP, said the meeting with EPS was only to catch up with a long-time party colleague. “I represented Edappadi constituency as MP in 1989, when Palaniswami was MLA.We have a three-decade-old relationship as party functionaries. Our meeting was not a planned one. We casually met and discussed the petition I had filed and its consequenc es,“ Palanisamy said. His contention is that the affidavits submitted to the commission are secondary . Sasikala's appointment should be made null and void by the commission, as it violates the party constitution, he said. Edappadi, however, is not ready to stick his neck out on this issue at present.
 
 Edappadi's game plan is to weaken the OPS camp first and consolidate the party under his leadership. He is also incensed because of the OPS faction moving a petition in the EC claiming that the affidavits filed by the EPS faction were forged and hence they should not be given more time for producing documents. “The EC should order necessary inquiry and registration of criminal cases against the offenders.They are not entitled to get any relief before the commission,“ P H Manoj Pandian, a senior leader of the OPS faction said.
 
