(KUSHMI) GORAKHPUR: Barely 15 kilometres from the main Gorakhpur city, a group of voters rues the total lack of facilities like electricity, drinking water, hospitals, toilets and school. Worse part is they cannot ask for the amenities because they are the Vantangiyas, who have always lived in the   of Gorakhpur and Maharajganj. 

 “There are 23 Vantangia   in Gorakhpur and Maharajganj,” said Ram Ganesh Gaur, mukhiya (head) of Jungle Tinkonia-3, located in the core of Kushmi forest. “One has to walk for at least 5-6 kilometres for things of daily need. There are no schools, electricity or hospitals, and we cannot ask for anything as we have yet to be listed as a revenue village. This is in addition to our daily problem of saving farms from blue bulls, wild pigs, monkeys, besides escape saving ourselves from attack of wild animals. No officer or politician comes to us till   arrive,” he added. 
 
 True to his claim, former MLA from erstwhile Kaudiram seat, Ambika Singh came to the village to meet the people on Tuesday. His son Bipin Singh is a BJP candidate from Gorakhpur rural seat of which Jungle Tinkonia-3 is a part. Distributing handbills, he expressed his sympathy towards them. “I pushed for inclusion of your village in the revenue list but the administration is sitting on the file. Please vote for my son and I will make sure the job is done at any cost,” he said. After all, the village has 1,450 voters while Vantangias are a bounty of 21,000 voters. 
 
 Singh’s ‘jansampark’ was still on, when a group of motorcyclists rallying for Nishad Party of India came to meet the villagers. One of them asked an elderly about their party’s election symbol and he replied, “Bhojan bhari thali (full meal plate)”. The election symbol touches a raw nerve. 70-year-old Usha Devi and her son Ram Nayan gather ‘shaku’ leaves from the village for a living. “We get a rupee for 15-20 leaves but end up earning not more than Rs 30-35 in a day,” she said. 
 
 The present generation is worried about the future of their kids and is pressing their demands. “Till 1980, we were engaged by the state forest department but thereafter, the forest corporation was formed and our source of income was gone,” stated Balram Rajbhar, secretary, district forest rights committee. He added, “We had to look for employment outside the forest and realised we were not prepared to face challenges of the world. We were counted as voters 50 years after Independence.” 
 
 Residents feel they are already late by 50-60 years in the development race. “Kids who study can become officers... but our kids don’t go to school,” said Shyam Hari, a 73-year-old native. He added that several Vantangia villages were located towards the city but majority were over 20-25 kilometres inside the forest. “If government can set up a polling booth inside the forest, why can’t it allow a school or anganwadi center,” he asked. 
 
 Young boys feel they live in pre-Independence India. Sattan Bharti’s son Vimal said, “We enter India the moment we are out of the forest...If we were in India, we would have at least something of what they have.” Class VIII student Mamta, who walks 10kms to reach her school near the Gorakhpur Airforce Base area, said, “Our ancestors were tired of atrocities of zamidars and that's why they accepted the offer given by British. I know that over 55,000 hectares of forest has been planted by our elders. But what have we got in lieu of that?”
 
 
