GURUGRAM: Protesting the conviction of 13 labourers for their role in the 2012 Maruti violence, workers unions will hold a mass meeting in Manesar on Thursday. The unions, according to sources, have picked March 23 as the day of protest as it is observed as Shahid Bhagat Singh martyrdom day. The district administration, police and labour department have already made extensive security arrangements to ensure law and order in the area.

 “We have intensified our protest now. The lives of 148 workers have been ruined. We are seeking justice and rehabilitation for them. We request all workers to take part in the mass meeting,” said Kuldeep Janghu, general secretary, Maruti Udyog Workers Union. 
 
 As many as 150 unions from Gurgaon and Rewari, and workers from four factories of Maruti Suzuki India Ltd and two of its main vendors — Bellsonic Auto Components and FMI Automotive Components — are expected to join the protest march, sources said. On Wednesday, workers from Maruti Udyog Workers Union distributed pamphlets in all industrial sectors of Gurgaon, including Udyog Vihar, Sector 37 and IMT Manesar. Workers alleged that the convicts were assaulted and made to sign on blank papers, which were later submitted in the court as their confession. The protesters, according to sources, will finish their morning shift that ends between 2 and 3pm, and will reach Tau Devi Lal Park in Manesar for the 4pm meeting.
 
 To tackle any untoward incident, the district administration has already imposed prohibitory orders under 144CrPC till May 15. As many as 500 policemen and two battalions reserve forces will be deployed in the area. “Cops will be deployed by 11am on Thursday. They will have anti-riot gears with them to combat any untoward situation,” said ACP Manish Sehgal. 
 
 The labour department has cancelled leaves of its officials. More than 200 labour officials will be on duty in their respective areas in Gurgaon and Rewari to counsel workers, asking them to hold the protest peacefully. “All officials, including labour inspectors, will be on the field,” said Jaibir Singh Arya, additional labour commissioner, Gurgaon.
 
 
