 A shimmering white Jeep Compass car placed right next to the main entry of the   in Noida is attracting the eyeballs of visitors. Such displays not only catch consumers’ attention but are increasingly becoming an important source of revenue for malls operators.
 
  Banking on events like these, prominent malls in India are trying to push their nonrental revenues from about 6-8% at present to 12% as malls with their high footfalls are seen by   to carmakers as the perfect platforms to pitch their products to their target customer. For example, Fiat Chrysler Automobile is said to be shelling out Rs 1 crore for displaying the car in the Noida mall for six months, according to sources.
  
  Similarly an   has placed a huge digital screen near the atrium of Select Citywalk Mall in New Delhi that beams ads for products like smartphones to international holidays. The Delhi mall had earlier this year organized a mini “auto show” for half-a-dozen superbikes such as Ducati and Benelli aimed at attracting footfalls and to increase its revenues.
  
  Suresh Kumar Kurapaty, founder of Umbrella Aegis, a Mumbai company that organizes marketing events in malls, said prominent malls in India charge Rs 5-10 lakh to display a car just for a weekend.
  
  “Few years ago most mall owners did not plan and budget the non-rental revenue.
  
  Now they do and it is a significant contributor to the revenue, especially large malls,” said Munish Baldev, chief executive of JS Martin & Co, a consultancy firm for commercial and luxury properties that works with malls owned by Unitech and  .
  
  
 
  The peak season for organising such events starts from mid-August which marks the end of summer and the onset of festivities. It continues through Onam, Dussehra, Diwali, Christmas, New Years’ Day and ends with the Valentine’s Day celebration in February.
  
  The revenue from billboards, hoardings and other outdoor advertising vehicles also constitutes a large part of any mall’s nonrental income. “Almost half of the non-rental income for a mall comes from outdoor media vehicles, especially in smaller centres such as Amritsar where the number of billboards owned by malls is very high as compared to metros,” Baldev added.
  
  Malls are currently taking digital advertising to a new level with tiny LED screens placed in front of urinals in bathrooms to installing giant screen in every nook and corner of the shopping centres. For example, Seawoods Grand Central Mall in Navi Mumbai has installed 55 digital screens in the mall, Kurapaty said. “That is massive and they are going to make big money out of it,” he said.
  
  In April, High Street Phoenix created a fan park for Formula One fans by telecasting Bahrain Grand Prix on a giant screen even as they showcased various luxury cars from Jaguar, BMW and others. “While the nonrental revenue has been increasing by 10-15%, this is not a focus area for us. It can be a large contributor to the revenue of large malls,” said Rajendra Kalkar, president of West Retail Business at the   that owns High Street Phoenix.
  
  Umbrella Aegis plans to bring 20 car, bike brands for an auto show in Select Citywalk mall in November. “In the central atrium we will bring luxury cars, superbikes outside the atrium and passenger cars and two wheelers outside the mall,” Kurapaty said. 
