Bhopal: Bhopal: Unbridled urbanization is turning green Bhopal into a concrete jungle. The massive growth of highrises, glass-façade buildings, and vehicles is in direct contrast to the rate at which trees are vanishing.

 No wonder you hear Bhopal old-timers mourn ‘how green was my city’. It’s every bit true. And painfully so.
 
 According to a satellite survey conducted by Indian Institute of Science, Bhopal’s tree cover was shorn by 44% — from a lush 66% to a mere 22% — over the last 20 years. What’s worse, it could go down by another 11% in the city by 2018, fear experts.
 
 The effects are clear — summers are hotter. Bhopalis recall that even 10 years ago, the nights were so cool even in May that you needed a light bedsheet to cover yourself.
 
 One of the key factors in this is the rise in population — from just 3.7 lakh in 1971 to 10 lakh in 1991, and 23 lakh in 2011. If you take the population of the city outskirts, it’s easily around 29 lakh, according to the 2011 Census.
 
 According to Manoj Singh Mik of CREDAI, “The population of Bhopal has risen, but the increase is on a downward slope. It grew by 5.88% between 1971 and 1981, by 4.39% between 1981 and 1991, 3.22% between 1991 and 2001 and by 2.60% in the next decade.”
 
 What this growth in numbers leads to is an increased demand for houses, appliances and vehicles, points pout Rama Umesh Pandey, professor of School of Planning and Architecture. “With the increase in population, urban-life demands for houses, amenities and transport lead to felling of trees. The climate has been adversely affected. Concrete houses and glass surfaces absorb heat during the day and release it at night. Therefore, the heat remains trapped in the atmosphere and generates unusual discomfort. This process is called the heat island effect,” Pandey said.
 
 Another alarming result of the heat-island effect is that the gap between minimum and maximum temperature reduces. Which is why summer discomfort is getting worse and nights are hotter than they were 15 to 20 years ago, she added.
 
 According to an alarming finding by Environmental Planning & Coordination Organisation (EPCO), by 2050, the average temperature will shoot up across India by 1.8-2 degrees Celsius and the minimum temperature will rise by 2-2.4 degrees. And by the end of the century, the average temperature will increase by 3.4-4.4 degrees Celsius, and minimum temperature by 4.4 degrees. There will be 35% more monsoon rain and there will be an increase in winter precipitation as well.
 
 According to a 2005 CREDAI report, there has been a 9% decline in construction of bamboo, mud and unburnt brick houses across India between 1991 and 2011. Bhopal hasn’t escaped this. “This has caused the heat to expand in the lowest atmosphere,” Singh said. This adds to the heat island effect.
 
 Perhaps the biggest culprit in the rising heat is the growth in vehicles and air-conditioners. “Bhopal has roughly 13 lakh vehicles. And, every day we issue 120 to 130 new registrations. This increase is alarming as the atmosphere is degrading by the day. Sound and air pollutions are major threats,” said Rajesh Sharma of the regional transport office (RTO).
 
 To add to the problem, enforcement of emission laws isn’t very strict. It’s common to see vehicles belching thick black smoke on Bhopal’s streets. “We levy hefty fines whenever we catch them. The black smoke is full of carbon dioxide, soot and micro-dust particles. It’s very harmful, especially for children. The impact shows later in life in the form of incurable ailments. The poisonous gas also impacts aquatic life. Unfortunately, lack of awareness gives a free run to violators. It’s high time we changed that,” Sharma said.
 
 
