PANAJI: A major tragedy was averted when a massive fire broke out at the Kadamba bus stand in   early Monday morning. While assets worth crores of rupees and vital records of the regional transport office from 2009 to 1960s were lost, no loss of life was reported. 

 The cause of fire is suspected to be short circuit at a supermarket on the ground floor that spread to the first floor where RTO was located.
 
 Director of fire services Ashok Menon told TOI that no precautionary measures for fire safety were taken by the Kadamba Transport Corporation ( ) that owns the complex. 
 
 “We will conduct a fire safety audit. We will also write to KTC to ask the electricity department to conduct audit to find out the exact cause of fire,” he said.
 
 “We got a call from police control room (PCR) at around 6.15am and within five minutes fire tenders arrived at the spot. The source of the fire was at Presidential supermarket,” Menon said.
 
 Chief minister Manohar Parrikar directed the fire force to issue notice to KTC and shut down the supermarket as it had not complied with the fire force recommendations. After visiting the spot, Parrikar also ordered a fire audit of all the shops located at the KTC bus stand.
 
 Six fire tenders were rushed to the spot including one from Mapusa fire station and fire fighters took over four hours to bring the fire under control. There are around 176 shops at the KTC bus stand complex.
 
 KTC conductor Atmaram Gawas said at 5.45am power went off at KTC bus stand and after 15 minutes they saw a dark smoke coming out of the bus stand.
 
  “When we saw the smoke, we thought a blast will take place and people started running to save themselves,” Gawas said.
 
 But despite the fire tenders reaching the spot within five minutes, the fire fighters had a tough time entering the building as access was blocked. “We had to break the shutters of the shop and then the gates had to be broken down,” Ajit Kamat, assistant divisional officer of Panaji fire station, said.
 
 “We asked for the building plans from the KTC and they said, they will get it. The building had used combustible materials,” Menon said. He said major loss was reported from the supermarket and the RTO.
 
 Around five years ago when the supermarket owner wanted the no objection certificate ( ) from the fire force, the department had conducted fire audit at the supermarket and made recommendations including air exhaust to prevent fire. “They have not submitted compliance report to the department,” Kamat said.
 
 Supermarket owner M J Hamarani, however, said they have complied with the fire force recommendations, but they could not fix air exhaust as there was no open space.
 
 Transport minister Ramakrishna Dhavalikar, who is also the PWD minister, said there was no damage to the building. “We will conduct the audit within a fortnight,” he said, adding they will take up the repair work of the bus stand immediately.
 
 Director of transport Nikhil Desai said enforcement and registration office of RTO has been damaged and it will take at least four days for operations to start. “All records have been burnt and we are going to face severe problems,” he said.
 
 Meanwhile, civil engineers are going to visit the premises on Tuesday to asses the health of the building and submit a report. “We are worried that the fire may have caused damage to such an extent that the floor might collapse. We are waiting for the assessment by civil engineers,” an RTO official told TOI.
 
