LUCKNOW: BJP national president  's three-day visit to Lucknow, beginning Saturday, is not just for drawing up a strategy to retain two   seats where by-election has to be held, but also ensure a safe passage for CM Aditya Nath Yogi and his four ministers to the state assemby or council before the mandatory six-month deadline gets over. There will, of course, be deliberations on the 2019 polls. 

 According to highly placed sources, Opposition camps may feel the heat during Shah's stay in the city as there are reports that some MLC from the rival camps may vacate their seats so that Yogi and four ministers, who are not members of any of the houses, could be adjusted. These Opposition MLCs could be suitably adjusted in future, say the sources.
 
 Before Shah arrives in Lucknow, CM Yogi and the general secretary in charge of the party, Sunil Bansal, discussed the issues related to the party and the government till late on Friday night at 5, Kalidas Marg.
 
 Another important task for Shah is also to look for a new state president of the party to relieve Maurya who is now holding another important post, that of the deputy CM. According to sources the new incumbent may be in place after August 5, when the poll to elect vice-prresident takes place.
 
 After JD (U) and RLD parted ways in Bihar and its chief minister, Nitish Kumar was back with BJP, the party national president has headed towards Uttar Pradesh where speculations are rife that a common candidate of the Opposition will contest for the Gorakhpur and Phulpur seats, represented by Yogi and Maurya, respectively.
 
 The BJP leadership is confident that any candidate even with the combined backing of SP, BSP and the Congress would not be able to win against the BJP, which is riding high all over the country. But the master strategist that he is, Amit Shah does not want to leave anything to chance. UP leaders have reminded him of how, in 1978, Opposition leader Indira Gandhi's candidate Mohsina Kidwai won against the Janata Party candidate and paved way for Congress's comeback in 1980.
 
  In Lucknow, Shah will meet party office-bearers, ministers, MLAs and give them tips on how to fulfil the expectations of people of the state who have voted them to power against the "15 years of misrule" the SP and the BSP. Also on Shah's menu will be discussions with the NDA partners, including Apna Dal and the SBSP. One of the ministers of the SBSP, Om Prakash Rajbhar, had threatened to stage dharna if the district magistrate of Ghazipur was not removed. Yogi had pacified him and appealed him to withdraw his dharna. 
 
 Finally, with the CM, the Shah will discuss, above everything, the dismal law and order in the state, though Yogi had rebutted strongly the charge in his address in the Assembly on Thursday.
 
