KOCHI: Scientists should have social responsibilities and ensure that their research and innovation benefit larger communities, said minister of earth sciences ( )  . 

 They should ensure that their works have a responsibility to society that goes beyond their responsibilities to their professions, the minister said.
 
 Talking to the media after the dedication of the stratosphere-troposphere radar facility at the advanced centre for atmospheric radar research (ACAAR) at the   on Tuesday, the minister said the ministry has launched a project for students of Classes IX-X to inculcate scientific temper among school children. "The project, named 'Jigyasa' is a student- scientist connect programme and will be jointly implemented by the   (CSIR) and the Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan (KVS). Its focus will be on connecting school students and scientists in order to extend the student's classroom learning to that of a very well planned research laboratory based learning," the minister added.
 
 He said the project was inspired by Prime Minister  's vision to develop a new India where scientific community and institutions develop social responsibilities.
 
 Replying to a question on a proposal to upgrade CUSAT to the status of the Indian Institute of Engineering, Science and Technology (IISET), Vardhan said he has not received any formal request from the university. "The vice-chancellor had mentioned it. We will look into it when we get a formal request. However, there are certain parameters and conditions that have to be met. A decision will be taken based on the assessment by expert groups," he added. Earlier, he said the world's first and unique 205 MHz stratosphere-troposphere (ST) radar centre at Cusat will play a vital role in taking India into the elite club of countries with expertise in the field of climate research and studies. It has been included in the 'Make in India' project, the minister added.
 
 ACAAR has built international collaborations. Now, under the Rs 400-crore National Monsoon Mission, real-time monitoring of rainfall right down to the block level will be possible. This will make the monitoring of changes in the atmosphere, including erratic rainfall and climate change, much more effective," he said.
 
 The ST- Radar facility at Cusat is unique in terms of time resolution and height coverage (up to 20km) to scientifically observe various climatic issues. It can help in prediction of heavy rainfall events, occurrence and evolution of thunderstorms, besides conducting turbulence studies. It would be a known data centre in the field of climate research and studies.
 
 
