NEW DELHI: The CBI has now shifted the focus of its investigation into VVIP   from former Indian Air Force Chief SP Tyagi to the “politicians” who were allegedly identified by the middlemen as crucial for swinging the deal signed under the UPA government. 

 Top CBI sources said they were required to examine those named by the alleged middleman, UK national Christian Michel, in his two notes. “The arrest of former Air chief does not bring the probe to a close. It marks the beginning of the investigation,” said a senior source who spoke on the condition of anonymity. “The two notes were taken cognizance of by an Italian court when it convicted Bruno Spagnolini and Guiseppe Orsi, the former bosses of   and its Italy-based parent company  , in April this year for bribing Indian officials in connection with the chopper deal.
 “The need for investigation require that we view the notes as evidence,” said the source, emphasizing that the notes were acquired through Letter Rogatory which is a judicial process. 
 
 In one of the notes, Michel described Congress president Sonia Gandhi as the “driving force behind the VIP ( choppers), she will no longer fly with MI-8”. Besides Gandhi, Michel’s note to then India region sales and liaison head of AgustaWestland Peter Hulet suggested that the latter should “target” PM of the time,  ,  , then defence minister and  , Congress president’s political secretary. 
 
 The other note was headlined “budget expenditure items”. Michel dictated it to another middleman Guido Haschke in 2008 when AgustaWestland was seeking to bag the Rs 3767 crore deal for supplying 12 choppers. The 2008 hand-writtten note, referred to as Michel’s only, mentioned acronyms of individuals who were to be allegedly paid bribes totalling 30 million euros. The mentions included “FAM” as well as ‘AP’, both being mentioned under a head captioned ‘POL’ which Italian investigators interpreted as referring to politicians. 
 
 A senior source said that CBI has not yet accepted conclusion of the Italian investigators that AP was a reference to Congress president’s political advisor Ahmed Patel. “We will not go by what others say. This is a subject of investigation”, he said, adding that entries by themselves are not conclusive evidence. Ahmed Patel has repeatedly denied that he had any role to play in government’s decisions, leave alone deciding who gets defence orders. 
 
 Sources emphasized that Haschke, who was also convicted by the Italian court for bribing Indian officials, got his sentence reduced by admitting his guilt in a plea bargain. “This is an evidence that we ought to take into account as we seek to investigate the scam,” said a CBI source. 
 
 The indication that the CBI was getting to move the investigation to cover the “political angle” comes at a time when it has been accused of pursuing Modi government’s political vendetta. Sources in the agency denied that they were being guided by extraneous considerations. “We have to do what our charter obliges us to do. Please remember that the probe started under UPA,” said the source.
 
