NAGPUR: Countless children in the country die without getting an organ for transplant, while the few paediatric organs donated are transplanted into adults in India. This is because separate allocations lists are not maintained for adults and children, said Zonal Transplant Coordination Centre (ZTCC) Nagpur coordinator Dr Ravi Wankhede.

 Wankhede said, “It will take some time for this kind of trend to reach Nagpur. Till date, we have never performed a paediatric transplant. Also, there has never been a paediatric donation in the city, though a couple of them have taken place in other parts of state.”
 
 A paediatric transplant requires donation from a paediatric patient only. However, an adult transplant can use paediatric donation. Despite of huge paediatric demand for organs, like kidney and heart, the availability of paediatric organs is less. Even the available paediatric organs mostly get used up in adult transplants since no dedicated list is maintained for allocation to  .
 
 Paediatric intensivist Dr  , who is nodal officer to the organ and tissue transplant program (Rajasthan), has been fighting for the cause from last two years. His demand is to open separate allocation lists for paediatric and adult patients in every state, so that paediatric donations go only to paediatric recipients.
 
 Dr Sharma was in the city on Sunday to attend the two-day international conference on supportive care in paediatrics titled ‘Books to bedside’ organized jointly by the   (PICC) and the   chapter of Nagpur at Hotel Centre Point, Ramdaspeth. He said, “According to India guidelines for organ transplant, paediatric organ donors and recipients come under one year. Those above one year are not paediatric patients, so their cadaveric organ donations can be used for adult transplant. Because of the small size of their organ, their two kidneys make up for one adult kidney. However, the same two kidneys can give life to two paediatric patients.”
 
 Dr Sharma stressed that if there were separate allocation lists, paediatric organs could be given to paediatric patient only, depending on the appropriate size of organ. With each cadaveric donation, it’s always preferable to save two newborns, who have a long life to live, instead of saving one adult, he said.
 
 A myth also prevails that brain-dead patients are mostly among adults since less number of kids fall victim to road accidents. Dr Sharma pointed out that a large number of brain deaths exist among newborns too, mostly because of a condition called brain deformation. “Such newborns are potential donors too,” he said.
 
 Putting a major share of blame on negligence of paediatricians, Dr Sharma said, “If you check in our country, most paediatric brain-dead patient’s parents will not have brain death certificates because the paediatrician has not performed any test to confirm brain death. Apart from negligence, 90% of paediatricians in our country don’t know the right procedure to do that.” 
 
 
