COIMBATORE: The city corporation has begun preparations to table the budget for the   in the second week of March, despite the political turmoil in the state.

 Officials attached to the corporation’s accounts department have started collecting data such as  , while auditors have begun preparing required reports. 
 
 Officials said the budget was likely to be presented in the second week of March by the special officer,  .
 
 And it’s the first time a special officer will be presenting the budget for the city corporation. Officials said they were confused about where and how it should be done. “We are in constant touch with senior officials in Chennai to find out the procedures,” said an official.
 
 The city corporation plans to hike deposit for underground drainage and its usage charges. There is also a move to increase deposit charges for  . The last time when the civic body increased the water supply deposit amount was in October, 2013.
 
 Officials attached to the engineering department said the civic body had last year passed a resolution to increase the deposit charges for commercial water supply connections, but hadn’t implemented the same. “Given the increase in population and water supply demand, a hike in deposit amount is inevitable,” they said.
 
 Senior corporation officials said the budget would not have any big announcements. While smart city projects will be an integral part of it, several other pending projects that are in the final stages of implementation will be included.
 
 “We will consider suggestions from all the engineers and ward-level officials. We will include almost all the projects that we plan to implement by the end of the year and exclude those that cannot be implemented,” the officials said.
 
 Accounts department officials hinted at inclusion of some taxes. “Since the civic body’s financial position is weak, revenue generation through taxes could be a major addition. But its inclusion will be decided after consultation with senior politicians in the city,” another official said.
 
