TRICHY: The five-day protest in the city against the ban on jallikattu was called off by a majority of the students on Monday terming the ordinance a victory for their protest. However, there was a twist in the proceedings when a small group among them, instigated by members of some outfits, shifted their protest spot to the district court campus. Eventually, the students bowed to an appeal from the principal district judge, the police and advocates and dispersed, bringing an end to the protest and easing the tension late in the afternoon.

 It was around 9 am that the students decided to put an end to their protest. They left on condition that they would come together again if there was no permanent solution for holding jallikattu and   was not banned in a month. The police led by commissioner A Arun, deputy commissioner, law and order A Mylvaganan, deputy commissioner (L&O) S Prabaharan ensured that there was no untoward incident when the crowd was dispersing. 
 
 After the announcement, the entire stretch started limping back to normal with traffic resuming after five days. That was until a group of students led by activists from some outfits blocked the road close to the bridge near MGR statue demanding amendment to the prevention of cruelty of animals (PCA) Act. The police forcefully removed them after their appeal to disperse yielded no result. Soon, about 100 protesters entered the court campus and staged a dharna inside saying they would continue their protest untill the union government amended PCA Act. 
 
 As the crowd of students began to swell, the police imposed restrictions on those entering the court campus. Some of the advocates questioned these restrictions and after a heated argument, the police allowed the vehicles in. Meanwhile, a group of lawyers opposed the choice of spot for the protest and asked them to disperse, which was opposed by another group. At one point, the principal district judge (PDJ) S Kumaraguru made an appeal to the protesters to leave the court campus pointing out that the judicial campus was not the place for their protest. Finally, one group of students decided to leave the spot stating that the genuine aim of the their protest was being misled by non-student group. 
 
 “We consider the ordinance as a first victory. Our students have hope on the government in the jallikattu issue. So, we decide to disperse. But a few persons in the group wanted to take the protest forward without telling the students about its consequences,” said a protester, Mahendran. 
 
 Following the exit of a group of students, DCP Mylvaganan again advised the rest to follow suit and explained to them about the consequences of continuing the protest. At last, the entire crowd decided to call off the protest and left the spot. 
 
 
