BENGALURU: She had a great start to her career as a techie and manager in top   in India and abroad, but had to put a full stop after four years due to  . But at 36, Sunitha Krishnan made an amazing comeback. She is one of the pioneer mothers who are mentoring children through the   tutorial platform. 

  "My son was 11 years when I got this opportunity to work from home and that too, as a mentor to other children and parents. Getting back to work has always been a deep-seated thought but my priority was my son. I can spend time with him as well as engage in mentoring which mothers are always good at. I had assisted my son in everything and now, he is able to take decisions for himself and learn a lot of practical lessons of life. He keeps saying 'I have a physics and an English teacher, but my mother knows it all'. He is proud of my work," said Sunitha. 
 
  The story of 25-year-old Chithra Kochelvan, mother of a 18-month-old girl, is no different. She chose to take a back seat from her career but did not take a long sabbatical. "It is important to have a life of our own as a woman. I took a sabbatical from work life because my husband's job forces him to travel a lot and I wanted to enjoy motherhood. When this option of working from home popped up, I jumped in. After putting my baby to sleep and finishing the household chores, I start working from afternoon till evening. It is flexible and very satisfying job," Chithra added. 
 
  Six months ago, Byju's online tutorial platform opened the doors to new horizons for many such mothers---to become Mothers Mentors. There are 50 mothers in the Bengaluru team. Divya Gokulnath, director and teacher at Byju's, started the initiative. 
 
  "Mothers are always the best teachers. And I being a mother I understand the importance of family for a woman and her dreams of being successful in a career. Using that quality of mentorship in mothers, we started the programme and in six months, enrolled 50 women. It gives them an opportunity to get back to a career which is not much different from what they are already doing for their children. Most of these women are highly educated and have had some work experience," she said. 
 
  The mothers are trained for 20 days on the present academic scene and counselling etc. Their language preference is also g iven importance. "If a Mother Mentor knows Tamil or Hindi or any language, we give them students to counsel from their own states. This develops a bond between the mentor and the children and their families and is a win-win for both," Divya added. 
 
 
