Sahej Mantri |   Sustainable Toilet Foundation

 Whatever your interests are, you can find a space in the  . From communications to finance and from logistics to resource mobilization and planning, one can find all sorts of jobs here. I got in after working as journalist for a couple of years.
 
 The best way to start out is to take up a  . I did mine in   where I worked closely with a research organization documenting development in  . The ideal time to do this is when you are just out of college or when you wish to change your career, like I did.
 
 An internship or a fellowship is also a good way to start. My time in Cambodia helped me ascertain what causes I wanted to work towards. I came back to India and joined a non-profit in Odisha to learn project management, monitoring and evaluation of projects in the WASH (Water, Sanitation and Hygiene) sector.
 
 Pursuing a masters degree after you understand the field and develop your specific interests, and then following it up with a PhD is something a lot of people do in the sector. One thing I can vouch for is, you may end up not getting one and still make a thriving career in the field. I haven’t done mine yet but I have decided to work in the sanitation sector after a fruitful experience working in rural development and focusing in wash programs.
 
 Back in Mumbai, I set up Agasti in 2015, a social enterprise which works to provide sanitation solutions for urban spaces. In the two years, our concepts for toilets in urban spaces have received recognition through awards and accolades but growth is slow and difficult compared to what it would have been in a for-profit business. This makes it very important that one stays focused to the cause selected and remains patient.
 
 The scope of development field is huge though the attention is slowly turning towards Africa as less efforts required in India by the day. India is achieving positive results in implementing programs that are aligned with the Sustainable Development Goals and hence foreign funding has reduced lately. But, we have received experience in the process that makes Indian development professionals in increasing demand in Africa and Latin America.
 
