Puducherry: The   government on Wednesday sought the   to allocate 25% of   in the four institutions affiliated to   in Puducherry under  . Speaking to reporters, chief minister   said he had sent a memorandum in this regard to the Union health and family welfare minister in this regard.

 “I will also call him (Union health and family welfare minister) and urge him to allocate 25% of MBBS seats in deemed universities under state quota,” he said.
 
 There are four institutions affiliated to deemed universities in Puducherry — Arupadai Veedu Medical College, Vinayaga Mission Medical College, Mahatma Gandhi Medical College and Research Institute and Sri Lakshmi Narayana Institute of Medical Sciences (Slims) — offering a total of 600 MBBS seats. Narayanasamy said, though these institutions were free to fill up all MBBS seats they used to surrender seats (roughly between 130 and 140 seats) to the government every year until last academic year.
 
 However, from this academic year, the Union government had entrusted the directorate general of health services (DGHS) to hold counselling for all deemed universities in the country to admit students. “Last year the four institutions surrendered 137 MBBS seats to Puducherry government. From this year we will not get those 137 odd seats as the admission is done by DGHS. Hence we made a representation to the Union minister to allot 25% of MBBS seats in those institutions under Puducherry state quota,” he said.
 
 Narayanasamy said the government earmarked 22 seats under Non-resident Indian (NRI) quota under state quota in government-run Indira Gandhi Medical College and Research Institute in the last academic year and added that he will urge the Union ministry to permit the Puducherry government to fill up NRI quota (22 seats) with state-sponsored students.
 
 To a query on Madras High Court seeking the list of students who joined postgraduate medical courses in all the three private colleges and four deemed institutions for the academic year 2017-18, he said the court did not find fault with the government but sought list of students who were admitted without following the government procedure of counselling.
 
 He said health minister Malladi Krishna Rao has been holding talks with the representatives of three private medical colleges on sharing of MBBS seats under state and management quotas. The three private colleges offer 150 MBBS seats each. 
 
 
