HYDERABAD: A recent study published in the  ,  , made an important observation that not all people residing in slums live in poverty. Many poor people in urban areas live outside slums. The study on “the history, geography, and sociology of slums and the health problems of people who live in slums,” pointed out that the health of   population is often a neglected subject in African countries and India. 

 It said such a situation prevails among slum populations in Chennai, Hyderabad and also Delhi.
 
 It would mean that the health of the poor city dwellers is not necessarily a reflection of the health of those who live in slums. People living in slums share environmental risks due to poor sanitation and they also face neighbourhood effects. The second reason is that people in slums also benefit collectively from any measures like improved sanitation. The third reason is social and health improvement measures in non-slum localities might not be transferable to slum areas.
 
 The study said the concept of neighbourhood effect refers to factors that impact health of the community irrespective of conditions in each household. It means that the level of poverty does not come into picture in this scenario.
 
 Examples of neighbourhood effects are slum environment and contamination of water with faeces in many slums. The crime rates vary substantially among slums. It reflects different cultures that have developed within them.
 
 Many slums are exposed to geographic hazards, such as flooding, subsidence, and local pollution from factories. Some slums are stigmatized so that residents’ rights are infringed to the point of expropriation. The study also said that under-nutrition is mostly seen in children of countries like Republic of Congo, Bolivia, India, Bangladesh, and Kenya. The rate of stunting in children residing in slums is higher than in non-slum urban or rural areas. Early childhood diarrhoea also affects child cognitive development.
 
 The paper also brings out interesting aspect on smoking. According to it, cigarettes are unaffordable to many and that the number of cigarettes consumed by smokers in slums is lower than that of smokers in other urban areas. Another important observation was that women and men in slums weigh more and exercise less than rural dwellers.
 
