JAIPUR: The Jaipur Metro phase 1(B) work, which is facing delay, is expected to gain momentum as two temples obstructing the construction work of metro station at Baddi Chaupar will be shifted on Wednesday. 

 According to district administration officials, one temple which is situated at Phool Walon ka Khanda at South East of Badi Chaupar metro station will be shifted to Tanwarji Ka Nohra, quite close to the   area. It is a temple of Mataji, Hanumanji and Mahadevji.
 
 Another temple of Mahadevji and Ganeshji called as Ganesh Shivalaya will also be shifted from Badi Chauper's south east area to a place behind   police station. 
 
 The drive to shift the temples will start from 9 am. The district administration has chalked out the plans of shifting of temples with the police and the   (  ) officials. 
 
 Ashwani Saxena, director (Project), JMRC informed, “Both these temples were obstructing the construction of entry and exit of the Metro station. We have proposed entry and exit points at four sides. Two temples were shifted earlier and now drive will be carried out to shift remaining to temples.” 
 
 Sources in the department said, huge police will be deployed as many religious groups and residents of Walled City area have threatened to protest. Dharohar Baccho Samiti has also written letter to the Prime Minister’s office regarding relocation of ancient temple.
 
 The Metro phase 1(B) is all set to miss its March 2018 deadline. Work on 2.349-km project in Walled City has been delayed due to various reasons. However, the prime cause of delay is due to design change of two underground stations. 
 
 Now, the project is expected to be completed by June 2018. “The JMRC has to relocate five more temples falling on the route. The corporation was planning to start the relocation work by December 15. However , it missed the deadline . Three more temple would remain on route after shifting two temples . It is expected the work will not be completed as per revised deadline” said a senior official source. 
 
 
