KANNUR: The parents of a higher secondary student, who had committed suicide at Kavumbhagam near Koothuparamba on January 27 held a dharna at the school on Monday demanding legal action against those responsible for their son taking the extreme step.

 According to the boy's father O C  , who staged the agitation along with his wife Pushpaja and their immediate relatives, the school authorities had not taken any action despite repeated complaints.
 
 According to him, when his son and a few friends took a selfie, a teacher alleged that they took it along with a girl student and even informed the family of the girl, without telling the school authorities. The family members of the girl later came to the school and allegedly beaten up the boy . The school authorities, instead of amicably solving the issue and informing the parents, harassed the boy , which ultimately drove him to suicide, alleged the father.
 
 “It was the mishandling of the issue by the school authorities that ultimately led to the suicide of my son, and no other parents should face such a tragedy in future,“ said Sathyanathan.
 
 “I have already filed a complaint with the Kerala   and also chief minister  , but no progress has been made in the investigation. Now would start indefinite hunger strike in front of the collectorate,“ he said.
 
 Meanwhile, the school authorities said the allegations raised by the parents were baseless. “There was no harassment of the said student from our end and in our investigation it was found that the said teacher did not inform the family of the girl,“ said Rajivan M, principal of  , where the boy was a Plus Two student. He said the school authorities were also baffled as what made the boy take this extreme step.
 
 Koothuparamba police, which registered the case, also said they did not get any evidence to substantiate the allegation raised by the parents.
 
 But the boy's family said there are some concerted efforts to sabotage the case to save the culprits and hence they decided to strengthen the agitation.
 
