ALLAHABAD: Gearing up for   ( ) 2017 polls, the Akhil Bharatiya Vidharythi Parishad ( ) has invited applications from its cadre or aspirants willing to contest the polls for different posts.

 The ABVP has asked its cadres to submit their applications between September 17 and 25 so that the finalised candidates get enough time for canvassing.
 
 The prant organistional secretary Alok Pandey is reaching the city to chalk out the organisation’s poll agenda and review poll preparations on September 28.
 
 Pandey would be scrutinising and interacting with cadres and aspirants and further finalizing the list of candidates on September 30. The ABVP is also said to launch its manifesto on the same day.
 
 ABVP vibhag deputy convener Rinkoo Payasi told TOI, “Apart from inviting applications from cadre to finalize candidates list, volunteers are also inducting the university and college students as members”.
 
 He further added, “Membership campaign is currently under way at arts and science faculty campus at the university premises and over 3,500 students from the university and its constituent colleges have joined the organisation in the past one year.”
 
 Payasi further maintained, “ABVP has around 17,000 members across the district, but the organisation is focussing on the university campus to induct more and more students into its fold”.
 
 In 2016 AUSU polls, the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad had won the president’s post in the prestigious, a traditionally bastion of socialist-leftist parties. Beside, the organisation also secured position of joint secretary while three other posts, including vice president, general secretary and cultural secretary, were bagged by samajwadi chatra sabha, the student body of the Samajwadi Party.
 
 The ABVP leadership in a bid to retain its president post and also to ensure win other posts are approaching students and apprising them of steps were taken by them last year for student's welfare.
 
 When asked about the defeat in DUSU polls, Payasi said, “The NSUI had cleverly managed to file dummy candidates and as a result, freshers ( new students) remained confused and their votes got divided” But this time, volunteers are focusing on student welfare agenda to win the confidence of students.
 
