The social and showbiz circuits of Bengaluru are abuzz after news broke about a young event manager allegedly raping a minor and filming the act. Many people, especially women, took to social media to share their experiences with the alleged culprit and spoke about the darker side of showbiz. While the case remains under scrutiny, we spoke to people in showbiz about dealing with such individuals and tackling tricky situations...

 The fly by night operators operate on  
 These fly by night operators work on the fringe of the glamour business. They may or may not have access to any genuine work. Their modus operandi is to befriend a legitimate person in the industry, get some pictures clicked, add them on Facebook and then message others claiming long-standing association with this known person. The well-worn casting couch remains the glamour and film industries' guiltiest dirty little secret ' everyone knows it exists but no one really talks about it in public. So these people take advantage of the above fact and ensnare unsuspecting young girls and then blackmail them. However, we also see a breed of ambitious women who are ready to go to any lengths to get an assignment. My advice to them is ' to each your own.. but if you don't have any real talent or star material, then this route will only manage to get your feet in the door.
 '  , choreographer
 
 Very few look genuinely for talent in showbiz
 It is 2017 and we live in a time when every pretty college girl has dreams of making it big in showbiz and has acting aspirations. Interestingly, most of them are ready to quit everything they are doing when they see even a hint of this dream of their's being realized. And there is enough work today for all these girls, where a little dancing skills along with good looks can mask as talent easily for some. In this process, people do come across different kinds of people with different intentions. One needs to be careful when dealing with someone. In this industry, most people come with expectations, very few look genuinely for talent. Eventually, it is up to the girl and how she chooses to be. But, this is where she needs to be tactful.
 '  , actor
 
 If you're not tactful, then give up your dreams 
 I have had one such encounter, when a supposed   casting agency asked me to send my hottest pictures so that they could give me a good television series offer. I don't care how big a person is and can tell them off, unless they come through a trusted source. My advice is to be proactive and be cautious at all times. If you are not tactful, I'd rather say you give up on your dreams and look at plan B or C, but don't get too desperate. Personally, I am very aware of what I am doing and make sure I send no wrong message. For instance, when someone texts me asking how much I charge for an appearance, I respond saying 'I charge `3 lakh for an appearance' and not just 'I charge `3 lakh'. Imagine the kind of repurcussions a snapshot of an incomplete text like that can give. Also, I use call recording apps to never be on the backfoot.
 ' Sanjjanaa, actor
 
 Back off when you get the wrong vibes
 I've been acting since I was 15. But, my entry happened by chance. Though, after that, I have encountered all kinds of individuals. Especially when it comes to ads and events, they are quite upfront about compromise and commitment. One needs to know how to tackle this. Every girl knows the difference between a good touch and bad one and you need to back off when you get that wrong vibe. It is about being smart enough to differentiate this. There are girls who come with many dreams and aspirations, but eventually, in these cases of meeting such individuals, it is all about that one minute. You need to understand what you want and think of your life and choices. A girl usually knows what she wants and it is very rare that someone is coerced into a situation. But extreme cases can be avoided with caution. 
 '  , actress
 
 Do ample research when someone new approaches
 I have, fortunately, never encountered any nasty situation myself so far in my career as a model over these years, but I have come across many people who do not necessarily give out the right vibes. My approach, in those situations, has always been to ensure that do ample research about anyone new who approaches me for work, especially when it deals with something outdoors or a different concept. These event managers come with tall claims, but you need to be smart enough to understand and see through them. Fortunately, most of the people I have encountered in Bengaluru have been nice. The most important advice, though, I would say is never meet a stranger alone, and if you do, make sure it is always in a public place.
 '  , model
 
