AJMER: Private schools in the state are at loggerheads with the   which has asked the former to keep a record of students’  , provide bio-data of teachers and   of students along with their religious and social status, among others.

 Following the development, the private school association has threatened to go on strike if the education department fails to withdraw such demands.
 
 Government school teachers are already busy collecting Aadhar card numbers and related information about every student.
 
 Private schools too have to provide such information online by January 25. Those schools which are not providing this information would receive notices from the education department.
 
 According to sources, the information would help the department track students who are studying in both government and private schools.
 
 Schools have to also provide information on whether they are providing free hostel or text books to homeless children. The Aadhar card number has been made compulsory and it is the duty of schools to help students obtain the same.
 
 Officials of the department said that schools have to file this information online. They have to also send the particulars of teachers employed in the school, including details of salary. “This will ensure transparency in schools and help us keep track of every child,” said the official.
 
 In protest, the association of private schools has decided to keep all schools shut for a day on January 31.
 
 “They are asking for useless information from private schools,” said  , president of  . He added that the state government has issued notices to schools threatening to discontinue their recognition.
 
 Private schools claimed that their schools were providing quality education to students, but the state government now wants to destroy such institutions and turn them into government schools. School owners also alleged that the government wanted to take away their autonomy, which was important for them to run their institutions.
 
