CHANDIGARH: Aanchal Sharma is dehydrated. Clad in a black sports bra, matching shorts and heels, the 22-yearold from Derabassi says she hasn't had a glass of water in three days. Thirst is making her head swirl but then, water would round off those carefully-cultivated edges -her veins won't pop, her abs won't show and her only-salad diet of last three months wouldn't be of much use.
She is standing behind the curtain at  's auditorium right now and spritzing down washboard midriff with a pain-relief spray. This makes her muscles appear dewy as she flexes them for a jury of blue-blazer-clad men and it all pays off. She comes offstage with a giant trophy and a medal after being declared   -a new category introduced for women by Chandigarh   and   at its   this year.
 
 Last evening, the contest morphed from a spectator sport into something of a pageant when 200 brawny men with serial numbers dangling on their crotches were followed by eleven homegrown women who showed up in sparkly twopieces, faux-diamond jewellery and make-up. All of these eleven showed off their rubber spines -some collapsing into splits, others emerging on the other side of handstands -in Miss Chandigarh 2017's well-known `Fitness models' category . However, four of them came back for the brand new `Sports Physique' contest -where contestants were judged on basis of their structure rather than flexibility. That title was born out of a problem. “We used to find it tough to judge all women on par for flexibility as some were slim, Yoga girls while others were more muscular, gym-going women,“ says Munit Sachdeva, president of six-year-old Chandigarh Bodybuilding and Physique Sports Association, which aims to promote athletes from Chandigarh.
 
 While the medal came with a cash prize of Rs 5000, it was the platform that mattered to many of these twenty-somethings. Preeti Rana, 23, who has learnt both Yoga and Taek Won Do, was looking for “confidence“, porcelain-complexioned gymnast Manjot Kaur, 20, sought out the stage for “motivation“ to pursue a degree in Yoga and two-time winner Nisha Dhaudiyal wanted to muster confidence to be “Miss Universe“. As she dabbed on body lotion, Kalpana Negi, 23, who had won the fitness model title in 2015 and whose parents have immortalized that moment in posters all around their home, said the title is a launchpad, “which helps you compete nationally and internationally“.Abroad, in fact, fitness models are required to wear bikinis but concessions are made in India. At the event, Amit Chahal, 23, a medal-winning Yoga champion who is pursuing her post graduation in Yoga therapy , chose to go with a more modest top and shorts instead of a two-piece. Many had defied odds to be there. Nusrat Khan, 29, whose parents were against her going to the gym even and who has had a lumbar surgery that rendered her spine stiff, looked radiant with enviable upper arms cultivated over three months of strength training and yoga. “I want to create awareness about weight training,“ said Khan, who is pursuing a PhD in sports psychology.
 
 Towering above all of them in a sparkly golden two-piece, 20-year-old Niharika Sharma, who took part in both the categories and went on to win the Miss Chandigarh 2017 `Fitness Model' title, confessed that she wasn't always lean. “I used to weigh 95 kg till last year. But my brother, Shivam, and my coach, Sooraj Bhan, who really encouraged me to get fit,“ said Derabassi's Sharma, who, like her friend Aanchal, aims to compete in the annual national championship next week.
 
