BATHINDA: Less than a month since the new government took charge of Punjab, the farm loan waiver is expected to be core issue at the Baisakhi day conferences at Talwandi Sabo in Bathinda on April 13. Opposition parties —AAP and SAD — have decided to question the Captain   government about the government’s commitment to fulfil its promise of loan waiver given to farmers of the state in the Congress manifesto.

 The Uttar Pradesh government announcing to waive loans of farmers up to Rs 1 lakh, too, has put the pressure on the Congress here. The Congress, AAP and SAD have already started preparations to hold conferences on Thursday at Talwandi Sabo, which houses  , one of the five temporal seat of Sikhs.
 
 In the cabinet meeting on March 18, the Congress government had announced to form an expert group to assess the farm debt and propose ways to waive it. Rural indebtedness is estimated to be around Rs 80,000 crore in Punjab, though the figure of loans purely for farming is yet to be worked out.
 
 “The Congress had promised farm loan waiver in the run up to the elections and end the drug menace in four weeks of forming the government. The UP government had announced loan waiver in its first cabinet meeting and we want the Punjab government to follow suit and fulfil its promises. We will raise the points at the Baisakhi conference,” AAP MLA from Talwandi Sabo, Baljinder Kaur, told TOI on Monday. Another party MLA Rupinder Kaur said entire Punjab leadership of AAP would come for the Baisakhi conference.
 
 Former minister in previous government,  , who is also SAD Bathinda district chief, said, “Akali Dal will caution the Congress government to stand by the beleaguered farmers and fulfil its manifesto promise. If the UP government can fulfil the promise at the first instance then why the Congress government of Punjab could not do so as it had given a lot of thrust on the issue.”
 
 Punjab finance minister  , who is in charge of the committee formed by the government to observe the Baisakhi conference, before heading to Mumbai to accompany chief minister Amarinder for seeking investments for Punjab, said the government was “very serious on the issue and finding ways to implement the loan waiver”. “Whatever the Congress has promised, it will be delivered,” he said.
 
