PUNE: After the frenzied activity of the last month, it is now time to pray, meditate, spend time with family or just enjoy some time out at the spa. 

 With a day’s gap between voting day and the announcement of results, senior party leaders and candidates are enjoying a much-needed break from politics while they await news of their fate in the municipal elections.
 
 Arvind Shinde, leader of the opposition in   and a Congress corporator, said that he chose to spend time with his family at home, and generally enjoyed himself. “I tuned into some entertainment and movie channels, instead of news channels. Some religious rituals and general amusement were top priority for me,” he said.
 
 Meanwhile, thanks to their father, BJP leader Ganesh Bidkar’s children got an unexpected day off from school. “I told my children not to attend school today as I wanted to spend time with them,” he said. Bidkar also opted for a massage and a visit to the spa to rejuvenate after a long-drawn political battle.
 
 “Meeting workers and friends on a personal level was not possible during the campaign, so Wednesday was a day to spend time with them,” said Ashok Harnawal, leader of the Shiv Sena in the Pune civic body. He also visited a temple, praying for a favourable result. 
 
 For Maharashtra Navnirman Sena’s Kishor Shinde, Tuesday was his wedding anniversary, so family revelry began late in the evening. “We went out for dinner (on Tuesday) and on Wednesday, it was movie time with family and friends. The evening was reserved to draw up plans for the counting of votes,” Shinde said.
 
 Things were no different in Pimpri Chinchwad. Sachin Sathe — president of the Pimpri Chinchwad unit of Congress — who is contesting from Panel 26, said, “I could not speak much with members of my family and colleagues during the last one month. So today I spent time just catching up with family.”
 
 Five-term Nationalist   (NCP) corporator Yogesh Behl, who is contesting from Panel number 20, said he was in a relaxed frame of mind. “In the morning, I went cycling in my ward and met people. Later, I played some badminton,” he said.
 
 After a month-long hectic campaign, BJP candidate Yashwant Bhosale spent time in prayers. “After performing puja in the morning, I spent the day reading newspapers. In the evening, some party workers had gathered and were exchanging notes about voting trends,” he said. 
 
