SRINAGAR: The fear of jihadi bullets and military barrels kept people in   district indoors on Thursday as Kashmir posted its most embarrassing turnout, of 2% for repolling in 38 booths — a figure that crashed the state’s rising democracy graph.

 Signalling a changed security environment, Kashmiris in Srinagar LS constituency, unlike in previous elections, chose to heed the militants’ calls to boycott rather than the EC’s exhortations to line up at polling booths in Budgam district.
 
 The PDP, Congress, and   had all pleaded with the EC to hold the bypolls after the civic body elections due in June — so that an atmosphere for people’s participation could be created before the bypolls. In fact, after the low turnout in Srinagar, the EC deferred the April 12 Anantnag bypolls to May 25.
 
 On April 9, when the Srinagar parliamentary constituency went to bypolls, only 7.14% electorate had come out to vote following unprecedented violence at several polling stations of Budgam — taditionally a high voter turnout district due to its considerable pro-India Shia population. Eight people were killed during the clashes.
 
 In view of the violence of summer 2016, the PDP had requested the EC to hold the bypolls in Srinagar and Anantnag Lok Sabha seats after the municipal polls, a party spokesperson told the TOI.
 
 Over 80 people were killed by security forces in various clashes triggered by Hizbul Mujahideen commander Burhan Wani’s killing last year.
 
 “There was genuine anger among voters and we needed time to comfort them. We had begged the EC to delay the elections. But the EC overlooked our request and went ahead with its decision,” the spokesperson said.
 
 The separatist boycott call, widely advertised through mosque loudspeakers, phone calls, Whatsapp and text messages and letters, was highly effective on Thursday, as out of 35,169 votes, only 709 votes were cast at 38 polling stations of Chadoora, Charar-i-Sharief, Khansahib and Beerwah tehsils of Budgam district.
 
 
