JAIPUR: Malaysian Prime Minister   lauded the economic reforms initiated by chief minister   that have resulted in the state achieving an impressive growth of 12.38% in the financial year 2015-16. Razak, who arrived in India on March 30, was on a day’s visit to Rajasthan on Sunday. The Malaysian PM, on Sunday, was addressing a high-level meeting of a 40-member business delegation on business opportunities in Rajasthan.

 He said that Rajasthan has emerged as a business-friendly state at a time of global economic instability. The   said, “Rajasthan is a natural business partner of Malaysia.” Razak added that Rajasthan is a land of opportunities and businessmen from his country are interested to invest in many areas including tourism.
 
 Malaysia has special expertise in construction, particularly in road and basic infrastructure development. The chief minister while welcoming the delegation said the state is on a strong growth path and invited Malaysian companies to invest in basic infrastructure, tourism, water management, urban development, health and other sectors.
 
 She said the visit of Malaysian Prime minister will prove as milestone in business collaboration and development partnership of Malaysia and Rajasthan. She added that already Malaysia is a partner in the road and highway development in the state.
 
 The chief minister also discussed prospects of direct air connectivity between Rajasthan and Malaysia, developing Jaipur as a  , strengthening health facilities and in the execution of affordable housing scheme and developing urban infrastructure with the Malaysian delegation. Ministers and senior officials of the state government were present at the meeting.
 
 Earlier, the dignitaries were given a colourful traditional welcome at the Sanganer airport where they were greeted by Rajasthan industry minister Rajpal Singh Shekhawat, tourism minister Krishnendra Kaur Deepa and Jaipur mayor Ashok Lahoti. Kalbelia dancers and other artistes enthralled the guests with their performances.
 
 In the first leg of his visit, he went to Chennai, where he interacted with Malaysian students and met Tamil movie star Rajinikanth.
 
 
