MUMBAI:   ministry statistics have revealed a poor picture of   in the state. The reason is that the conditions a crop is grown in are, for the most part, far from optimum for it.

 Comparative data shows that the average per-hectare   for major crops is substantially lower than their  , or the   that a crop is programmed for by nature when the conditions are just right for it.
 
 Data shows that the difference in productivity between parts of the state that have the highest yield for a particular crop and the ones with the lowest yield is very high, indicating a need to have a re-look at the cropping pattern in the state.
 
 Take rice, the genetic potential of which is 4,000 kg per hectare while the state average is 1,867 kg. The highest yield of 3,572 kg is recorded in traditional rice belts like the Konkan but the lowest stands at 641 kg, a yawning gap.
 
 Such a high difference in the productivity of a major crop shows that its cultivation in many parts of the state is done in conditions that are not favourable for it.
 
 Experts say that the key reasons for the gap between the productivity on the ground and the full potential of a crop are a lack of research-based inputs for farmers, old and redundant practices, absence of innovation, unavailability of assured irrigation facilities, small land holdings and non-adoption of a cropping pattern that is best suited to the geographical parameters of a particular area.
 
 The average yield of tur in the state is 695 kg per hectare when the genetic potential is 5,000 kg. Yet, the state remains one of the largest tur producers, enough to cause a glut this year and send prices crashing. 
 
 The tur phenomenon is an illustration of low-productivity practices employed on a large scale to increase production — a waste of resources — instead of raising yield to achieve the same.
 
 Even the water-guzzling  , which caused a lot of debate during the 2015 drought, suffers from low productivity — though it remains popular as a cash crop with near-assured returns.
 
 The state has an average of 7.5 lakh hectares under sugarcane at an average productivity of 830 quintals per hectare against the genetic potential of 3,500 quintals.
 
 Experts say low yield is one of the key reasons why most farms are loss-making in the state.
 
 “It is unfortunate that research in the agricultural sector in the state has been completely neglected for years now,” a retired vice-chancellor of an agricultural university said. “None of the four agriculture universities in the state have a research director. More than 40% seats in these universities are vacant. There is a need to look at the cropping pattern of the state. There are many regions which are wasting time and money in growing crops that will not have much yield there due to geographical and weather-related parameters, but none of the universities give any such research-based inputs to the farmers.”
 
 Officials from the agriculture department said they had chalked out a detailed working plan to increase production. 
 
 “The idea is to reduce the   input costs by providing subsidies for everything that a   needs,” an official said.
 
