Calling it a tribute to every father, son, brother, husband, friend and boyfriend,  , that will be staged this evening, aims to be a humble, modest, hilarious and hard-hitting portrayal of men, celebrating them and the many ways in which they impact women’s lives. And no, this is not a rant by men about how they have been unfairly portrayed. Directed by a woman —   — it is about men from different walks of life and age groups, going up on stage and speaking about what it’s like to be, well, a man. 

 “The Penis Monologue is a heart-wrenching story about what a man feels about himself and the other gender — it is a man expressing his feelings about the relationship between a man and a woman, and the responsibility he feels towards society. We intentionally wanted to bring it out around International Women’s Day as a tribute to both the genders,” says Sharmin.
 The play was first brought to India two years ago by the  , and this time around, they have brought it back with a fresh take. “We have re-done the entire script. Last time, there were 17 actors, but the new format has only three — Subodh Subrahmanya, Abhishek Amol and Vedant Ramesh. We are doing it in an improvized fashion, so, there will be a number of props onstage and the three men will go ballistic and randomly go onstage, interact with the audience, pick up a prop and start acting.”
 
 
  
 The play will have various instances, some that will make you laugh out loud, and others that will tug at the heartstrings. So, while on one hand there will be an old man talking about his experience of losing his virginity to a woman who is 20 years older than him, who remembers her not because of the lust, but because how beautiful their relationship was, there are others of a man making fun of himself and sexual issues by saying if women have to deal with periods in their early years, men have to deal with erectile dysfunction in their later years. “There are other monologues about of a gay man and a transgender as well. Basically, it is different actors, from various spheres of life, talking about the different shades in a man’s life. It’s a funny take with soul-touching stories, and will make a woman fall in love with the men in her life all over again,” says Sharmin. 
 A point to note is that 70% of the audience in their previous show consisted of women, who, the director says, not only thoroughly enjoyed the show, but were talking and reacting throughout the performance.
 
 So, what is the one big takeaway from play? “Both the genders have a mix of the good and the bad. The tagline of the play is ‘use the force, don’t be forceful’, which means that although a man is physically stronger than a woman, he shouldn’t force a woman into anything, and should, in fact, use that strength for good. All the monologues are based on intricate aspects of men’s lives and male-female relationships. We are not trying to universalize manhood in anyway. Although men take more time than women to, says, grow up (mentally), they are very loving and are an intrinsic part of our lives. They must be respected,” Sharmin signs off.
 
