KOLKATA: The   at   has left many a passenger fuming, the   fumbling and the   frustrated. Yet, the vexed problem that has been mystifying everyone for over a decade-and-a-half can easily be explained through simple arithmatic. 

 Around 50,000 passengers use the   daily, around half of them flying out and the other half flying in. Of the passengers, around one in five carry check-in luggage and require trolleys. That pegs the daily trolley usage count at Kolkata airport at 10,000. 
 
 In the arrival section, the duration of trolley use per passenger is 45-60 minutes. That is the time it takes to retrieve the bag from the carousal or conveyor belt and then walk down to the foyer to take a transport. 
 
 On the other hand, the duration of trolley use per passenger in the departure section is much higher at 60-90 minutes, depending on how early the passenger arrives prior to the flight. 
 
 While retrieving trolleys that move into the departure hall is easy, doing so in the arrival area is challenging because they are scattered all over the foyer, inside the two-level car park and at the bus stand. According to Sashi Chowdhury, owner of Patna-based Century Ventures that has the baggage cart management contract at Kolkata and Guwahati, each trolley can be recycled upto four times a day. That works out to a requirement of 2,500 trolleys to meet the requirement of 10,000 passengers. With Kolkata witnessing a 20-25% annual growth in passengers, the requirement at the end of the year will be 500 additional carts to take the figure to total trolley count to 3,000.
 
 The airport had inducted 2,500 trolleys when the new terminal became functional in March 2013. Since then, traffic has almost doubled. Instead of the trolley count going up, it has actually shrunk. Around 700 have either got damaged or gone missing. Of the 1,800 left, around 500-600 are unusable as the wheels don’t move. Of the 1,200 trolleys that remain, around 150-200 are misused by cleaners, stall owners and cab drivers as well as a section of the trolley retrieval staff who siphon them off to earn money from passengers. That leaves only 1,000-1,050 trolleys for passenger use or 40% the actual requirement. If the trolleys are evenly distributed among the 15 designated trolleys parking lots (five entrances and 10 baggage carousals), each place would get around 66 trolleys at a time. 
 
 The contractor squarely blames the airport operator for precipitating the crisis by not investing in carts. “If only a third of trolleys are available, the problem can never be addressed. You cannot push retrievers to run behind every passenger. During morning and evening peak hours when there are 10 flights or more in an hour, the problem becomes acute,” said Chowdhury.
 
 Airport director Atul Dikshit did not deny that a large number of trolleys were unusable. “Officially, we have 2,500 trolleys. Many of them don't function properly. We have therefore ordered 3,000 new trolleys by April at a cost of Rs 5.5 crore. The existing trolleys will be slowly phased out and 1,500 more trolley will be ordered in the next phase,” the official said, adding that 200 shopping carts have also been requisitioned for use in departure lounge beyond security hold area.
 
 He though says the problem of low numbers is further accentuated by the poor retrival by the unionised staff. "We ask then to collect trolleys when 50 are out but they will wait till 200 trolleys go out," he said. However, neither he, nor the contractor, can do anything about it. If AAI is unhappy with the contactor’s performance, it can dismiss it and appoint a new one. But the same staff will continue to work, foiling any hope of change in behavior or work culture. 
 
 
