MUMBAI: Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday sealed talks with at least three business czars on possible investments in the state as he began his first official three-day tour in the financial capital. The Congress government said   chairman   has agreed to visit the state soon to explore the possibility of setting up a new major venture in Punjab.

 Separately, ICICI bank CEO and MD   announced that she might be shifting the bank’s back-end operations to Mohali in the next stage of expansion, a move that is likely to generate employment for the ITI and commerce graduates. The chief minister also held meetings with Goldman Sachs chairman Sonjoy Chatterjee and Godrej group chairman Adi Godrej.
 
 Amarinder is accompanied by his two senior ministers Manpreet Badal and Rana Gurjit, special principal secretary Suresh Kumar and financial secretary Anirudh Tewari. The team told the business leaders that the Congress government had begun the process to make the state more investor and industry friendly while reiterating its commitment to provide power to the industry at Rs 5 per unit.
 
 The chief minister also suggested that ICICI could develop his home village Mehraj as a model digital village. He said that, “It can be made part of ICICI Digital Villages” initiative, through which the bank plans to transform 100 villages across the country into digital ones in 100 days”. Manpreet later urged the bank to consider developing 200 model dairy farms in the state exclusively for breeding purposes.
 
 Adi Godrej during his discussion with the chief minister spoke about various ongoing company projects in the state, including the Godrej Tyson Foods Limited project for which an MoU was signed in 2015 and all clearances had been issued. The project involves setting up a ready-to-eat food processing facility with freezing capability and cold storage in Ludhiana. Godrej, who is also chairman of the Indian School of Business, expressed concern about imposition of GST on private educational institutions and urged the chief minister to pursue the central government for exemption to such institutions.
 
