Nagpur: A celebrated artist in India and abroad,  , who has been living in Paris for 28 years now, is firmly stuck to her roots and describes herself as a  . She has sculpted, etched and painted Ganpati, her muse and inspiration for over 30 years, and has now compiled the work for a book. 

 During her visit to the city, she interacted with students at   on its premises in   on Wednesday. Being her disarming and funny self, she answered questions with stories plucked from pages of her life. Born in Jaipur, Bajaj learnt art from Pune, before acquiring a scholarship from the French government. 
 
 She describes stalwart painter SH Raza as her guardian and best friend when she moved to Paris. “I was at an art exhibition when I saw him and wanted to interview him for the last chapter of my thesis on tribal art. We met over lunch and he asked to see my paintings. He had promised my father he would take care of me like my guardian. We always showed our work first to each other. We were best friends,” she recalls.
 
 Talking about creative influence Paris has had on her, she says, “It taught me an artistic vocabulary, a method and the significance of perfection. Moreover, I learnt to paint for myself and not to please anyone else.”
 
 Talking of abstract art, and how students can make sense of them, she said art is a very personal expression. She gave the example of classical music. “You’d have to listen to stalwarts like Bhimsen Joshi and others many times to develop an understanding. Similarly, you need to train your eyes to connect with art. 
 
 “Today, it is easy for young aspirants. Read and see works of other artistes. Abstract art keeps changing with your vision. With figurative drawings, one may master the art and keep on going,” she said.
 
 While acknowledging that she has been a lucky person, Bajaj had an advice for students. “I was told do what you want with your life. It may sound fun, but it brings added responsibilities. I should be convinced about my work. Nowadays, students are confused about what is the right way to be an artist. The right way is what you feel from inside. You become a real artist when you stop imitating others and decide how you want to work. I enjoy my artistic journey,” she said.
 
 The artist, who is gearing up for at least 10 launches of her book, also shared her  . “Whatever you do, be sincere,” she said.
 
