NEW DELHI: Pakistan’s response to India’s note verbale in the form of a letter of assistance seeking help to probe the alleged charges against Kulbhushan Jadhav has left India seething about the farcical nature of the proceedings against him. As foreign minister   said in Parliament,   levelled ridiculous allegations against senior Indian officials in its response.

 Indian authorities said Pakistan sought to draw a false equivalence by claiming Jadhav was acting at the behest of top Indian security and intelligence officials.
 
 “In fact, the announcement of Jadhav’s arrest days before a visit to   airbase by a Pakistan team was the worst form of propaganda and gamesmanship.
 
 They clearly wanted to deflect international attention from cross-border terrorism promoted by Pakistan,” said an Indian official. 
 
 The most significant authentication of India’s stand that Jadhav was abducted from outside Pakistan came from a former German ambassador to Pakistan, Gunter Mulack, who said last year that Jadhav was picked up by Taliban from near the   border and later sold to  . 
 
 He made the remark speaking in Karachi in a seminar, Crisis in Middle East –– A German Perspective, after Pakistan announced Jadhav’s arrest.
 
 “The person who is being presented as an Indian spy was actually apprehended by Taliban years ago, and is now sold off to Islamabad.
 
 However, the case is in favour of Pakistan since India has accepted that he was a member of  ,” he was quoted as having told a news channel later. 
 
 The government had accepted that Jadhav was an Indian national but said he had retired from Indian Navy years ago.
 
 Mulack said Pakistan’s military establishment raised the issue of Jadhav to destroy any chance of the two countries embarking on a peace process.
 
 Mulack told the media that the Pakistan army had responded through Jadhav to undermine Pakistan PM Nawaz Sharif’s attempt to probe the involvement of Pakistan nationals in the Pathankot attack.
 
 “Although I disagree with   and Sharif on a range of policies, I absolutely credit them for attempting to normalise relations between India and Pakistan. They represent the aspirations of peace-loving people across the borders,” he had said.
 
 That Pakistan wanted to use Jadhav to counter India’s campaign over cross-border terrorism was evident as Jadhav’s arrest was announced weeks after Pakistan got his custody and just before the visit of its team of security officials to Pathankot.
 
 “The Pakistan military establishment was probably taken aback by Sharif ’s decision to send a team to Pathankot to probe the attack as they felt it validated India’s allegations against Pakistan of promoting cross-border terrorism. They wanted something to dilute India’s position,” said an official.
 
 As Swaraj said on Tuesday, Pakistan linked consular access to Jadhav with its demand that India help probe its allegations against “senior Indian officials” who, it claimed, were handling him.
 
 Even after it announced death sentence to Jadhav, Pakistan approached the Indian high commission with its offer for conditional consular access to him. To India, this only further proved the preposterous nature of the allegations against him.
 
