NAGPUR: In some good news for lawyers from the city, the Nagpur bench of   on Friday directed the   (CAT) to conduct hearings in the city for at least one week in a month. The decision came while hearing a PIL filed by   at Nagpur and its secretary   through their counsels Mohan and Akshay Sudame.

 The petitioners contended that due to irregular sittings of CAT bench, the pendency of cases has increased. Explaining the plight of people from Vidarbha, who have to travel 850km to Mumbai for their cases, they said that not all could afford frequent travel, especially the Class III and IV staffers. 
 
 The usual practice is that if an interim order is granted, matter is fixed immediately after 15 days for speedy disposal. Though large number of cases is pending before the tribunal for several years, the circuit sitting is being held for a week in two months, they argued.
 
 The case was listed before the judicial bench comprising justice Bhushan Gavai and justice Swapna Joshi, which has given the orders to CAT registry.
 
 During last hearing, advocate General Rohit Deo informed that CAT bench would work for a fortnight every two months instead of seven days in three months. The petitioners, however, informed that since many central offices are operating in the city recruiting thousands of employees, it’s a perfect place to establish permanent CAT bench here to reduce pendency.
 
 CAT was established on October 2, 1985, with a view to resolve disputes of Central government employees at Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata and Allahabad. Later, it was expanded to 33 benches while circuit sittings are conducted in other major cities. These sittings were initially held at alternate months in the city, but later its periodicity was reduced and quarterly sitting was held to adjudicate the cases. 
 
 Subsequently, even those were discontinued and there was no sitting from April to December in 2014. The petitioners contended that on account of irregular sittings, pendency of cases jumped from 337 in 2007 to 641 by the end of 2014. On an average, about 250-300 cases are filed at Nagpur every year.
 
