IMPHAL: Singjamei, one of the seven urban seats in Imphal going to the polls next month, is bracing for a repeat of the 2012 electoral battle between Congress strongman and revenue and forests minister   and  's  , a martial arts trainer from the RSS. 

 Khemchand, who contested the last assembly election on a   ticket, had lost by just 157 votes. Singjamei is one of the smaller constituencies in Manipur with about 19,000 voters. The fight this time is getting even more close.
 
 After his defeat, Khemchand had joined the BJP and got close to the RSS once he started giving martial arts lessons at RSS 'shakhas' in Manipur. Singjamei is one of the two seats where the RSS has managed to field its men, the other being Patsoi. 
 
 A taekwondo guru, Khemchand was once a sportsman and an instructor and the founder of the  . He taught martial arts in Guwahati for many years. When he returned to Imphal, he started heading the Manipur Taekwondo Association. "The anti-incumbency factor will work against my rival. I lost by a very narrow margin in the last election. This time I am confident of a victory," says Khemchand as he focuses on the problems of his constituency. Feeling optimistic about his win, he says there is a BJP wave in the state.
 
 Hemochandra on the other hand, is unfazed by the optimism in the BJP camp. "Traditionally, Singjamei is a Congress stronghold. So, I am not worried at all," said the former student of Delhi's prestigious St Stephen's College. While speaking to TOI at his Singjamei residence, he said both local and state issues are at play in his campaigns. 
 
 Hemochandra entered the fray at a very young age when his father, Irengbam Tompok Singh, the former deputy chief minister, had died in a plane crash. He has so far won from Singjamei five times - 1991, 1995, 2002, 2007, and 2012. He only lost once in 2000.
 
 On the issue of the  's ongoing blockade and the Congress government's creation of districts, the minister said the blockade did not end as it became an ego issue for the UNC. He said the UNC should be considerate given the plight of the common people. "There cannot be any rollback as far as the districts are concerned. But we can reorganise the boundaries by forming a commission," he stressed. 
 
 He believes the Congress will do well in the hills despite the blockade and the party will win the maximum number of seats in the valley. Commenting on the current election, Hemochandra said it is moving towards a two-party system. "It's a good sign for the democratic process. In a democracy, we need a strong opposition," he added. 
 
 Singjamei has four candidates in the fray, the other two being Heikrujam Nabashyam of the TMC, and Thokchom Sarchil Singh of the Manipur People's Party.
 
