BV.Shivashankar

 Bengaluru: Although the Supreme Court’s order barring sale of liquor in the vicinity of highways is yet to come into force, sale of alcohol at illegal establishments referred to as “belt shops” in industry parlance, set up close to these arterial roads, is already in full swing. Trade observers fear that such illegal outlets are only likely to proliferate when the apex court’s order takes effect.
 
 A belt shop (so called because it’s like a belt which connects two shafts in a mechanical device such as a grinding mill or probably derived from the slang term ‘belt’meaning to down a drink in a gulp) is an illegal extension to a licenced outlet. The owner of an establishment can purchase alcohol through legal means from the Karnataka State Beverages Corporation Limited (KSBCL), and divert stock to these illegal outlets, where drinks are sold at inflated prices to shore up profits. These establishments are reportedly found in large numbers in rural areas where roadside hotels, grocery shops and dhabas indulge in the illegal sale of alcohol.
 
 In addition to fine-dine restaurants and star hotels where liquor is served, Karnataka has around 3,950 retail outlets and 3,500 bars, and the SC’s order could bring down the shutters on nearly 60% of these establishments. While the order, prohibiting sale of liquor 500m from the edge of National Highways and 220m from state highways, aims to ensure road safety, liquor traders point out that illegal sale could undermine the intention of the order.
 
 President of the Karnataka Wine Merchants Association G Honnagiri Gowda said, “Shortage of supply will see more people turn to belt shops, which are only likely to increase. There are already around 20,000 such outlets in the state. The government needs to come up with an urgent solution to the crisis.”
 
 Harish Bijoor, liquor trade analyst, said that alcohol was priced arbitrarily at these shops based on the requirement of the customers. “Liquor is sold at costs above the maximum retail price (MRP). Also, they end up becoming spaces where customers can guzzle liquor,” he added.
 
 While endorsing the SC’s decision, he said, “It’s a good move aimed at ensuring road safety. But it could lead to a rise in illegal activities.”
 
 “When every shop along the highway gets removed, they will relocate to the interior parts of the city, which will be a hindrance to residents. This will not stop consumption pattern and will affect tourism in Kerala and Goa. It will also impact sales, possibly to the tune of about 15-20% in the near term. The industry is already in turmoil because of GST and this will reduce state government revenue,” said an industry executive, on condition of anonymity. 
 
 Sources said that the rampancy of these belt shops can be attributed to a nexus between liquor traders and the government – politicians and officials. Excise department officials said that they are aware of the problem.
 
 “Illegal outlets are on our radar,” said Rajendra Prasad, joint excise commissioner. He added that the exact number of shops along the highways would be tabulated. “We will subsequently talk to the owners, arrive at an amicable solution before shutting them down,” Prasad said.
 
 On the demand from liquor traders to the state government to have state highways reclassified as district highways, Prasad said, “We are conducting a series of high-level meetings. Apart from this demand, we are also considering many others from the merchants.”
 
 
