PATNA:   organised a   with the help of its BEd 2nd year trainees at the   for the Handicapped at   in the city on Monday. 

 Sister Catherine Colaco of the rehabilitation centre welcomed the team from the college. The trainees were divided into groups and sent to different classes were they guided the students, conducted a survey of their background and taught them different subjects.
 
 College’s assistant professor   said the trainees gained a unique experience. Jyoti Bara, a teacher trainee, said she was sent to a class where all the students were hearing impaired. “I just didn’t know how to communicate with them, but the students were so cooperative and they read my lips,” said Jyoti.
 
 College faculty members Sujata, Smita Paschal, Vijayshree, Sapna Suman and Sushil Kumar guided the trainees for the community service initiative.
 
 Summer fest: A weeklong summer fest, christened ‘Chak Dhum Dhum’, kicked off at Wonder Kids School on Monday. 
 
 Schoolchildren participated in various activities, including yoga, painting, quilling, dance, drama, mime, calligraphy and writing on the inaugural day of the fest. Children’s films were also screened for the kids.
 
 The children were trained under the guidance of Kamal Naskar of the Indian Mime Centre-Kolkata, Tikuli art expert Ashok Kumar Biswas , Bharatnatyam dancer Sudipa Ghosh and Sangeeta Dutta of the Kilkari Bihar Bal Bhawan. 
 
 ‘Ek Bharat Shreshth Bharat’ week: Central University of South Bihar (CUSB) organised several events during its ‘Ek Bharat Shreshth Bharat’ week which concluded on its campus on Monday.
 
 CUSB public relation officer Mudassir Alam said the purpose of the celebration was to make the students, faculty and staff aware about the ideologies of unity, integrity and excellence of India. On the first day, event coordinator Prof Priya Ranjan shared the guidelines given by the ministry of human resource development about the purpose and aim of the programme.
 
 Prof Rikil Chyrmang spoke on the diversity of north-eastern states of India with reference to the social and cultural aspects of the society. On the concluding day, dean (students’ welfare) Sanat Kumar Sharma said the unity of India lay in its diversity.
 
 Other teachers who presented their views were Kaushal Kishore, Haresh Narayan Pandey, Anil Singh Jha, Pragya Gupta, Ambrish Gautam, Jeetendra Ram, Chandra Prabha and Kavita Singh.
 
 Xaverians’ pool party on May 21: Sandeep Sen was installed as the president of St Xavier’s Alumni Association at an installation ceremony on Monday. He announced a pool-side party would be organised for Xaverians and their family members at the school on May 21. 
 
 Abhay Kanodia became the association secretary while Mohit Alhuwalia and Amulya Kumar Singh became vice-presidents. Anshul Sinha is the association’s new treasurer while Neel Mani, Ashutosh, Om Prakash and Yogendra Dubey are the new joint secretaries. School rector, Fr Jose Elampassery, principal Fr Jacob Olickathotty and vice-principal Fr Manish Osta also attended the alumni association’s installation ceremony.
 
 
