NOIDA: The huge margin of 1,03,952 votes in Noida – possibly one of the highest victory margins in the state -- has given enough reasons for   to be ecstatic on Saturday. 

 The implementation of Real Estate (Regulation & Development) Act, 2016, the launch of Jewar airport and improvement in law & order are his focus areas, he told TOI.
 
 RERA will be a major issue as Noida has a huge population of home buyers. The Akhilesh Yadav government had introduced its version of the Act under the Uttar Pradesh (Regulation & Development) Rules in November 2016. Many had, however, pointed out that the state government’s version of the Bill was “diluted” and was in builders’ favour, he said.
 
 “The demonetisation led to price correction. Similarly, once the RERA Bill comes, it will also lead to some corrections,” Pankaj said.
 
 The youths have expectations from him and he would like to work for the farmers as his family has a connect with rural areas, he added.
 
 Law and order “is always an issue” whenever the Samajwadi Party is in power and the   will try to curb crime and bring in investment in the region, he said.
 
 On Saturday, while most candidates were eagerly awaiting the results at the counting complex in Phool Mandi, Pankaj distributed sweets and clothes to the poor in Dadi ki Rasoi - organised by businessman-activist Anoop Khanna -- at Ganga Shopping Complex, Sector 29. 
 
 Khanna was one of the 17 candidates whose nomination for the Noida seat was rejected by the returning officer.
 
 BJP workers started celebrations around 12:30 pm, much before the results for the Noida seat were announced and candidates could be seen playing Holi at the party office. Later around 4 pm, Pankaj’s mother Savitri Singh, brother Neeraj Singh and wife Sushma Singh joined the celebrations at party office in Noida Sector 4.
 
 “I am thankful to the party leaders as they believed in me and gave me a chance to stand for a seat like Noida. I thank Dr. Mahesh Sharma, Vimla Batham, Surendra Nagar and all other senior leaders for their support,” Pankaj said.
 
 
