NAUTANWA: Of the five family members, three—father, mother and son—are behind the bars. The parents are convicted criminals, while the son is accused of murder of his wife and in the fray as independent candidate. Two sisters are campaigning for their jailed brother. That’s   assembly constituency for you. 

 In fray from the constituency touching Indo-Nepal border are Sara (wife) murder accused  , sitting MLA Munna Singh of Congress who is now the   candidate, BSP’s Shambhunath Prajapati and BJP’s Sameer Tripathi. 
 
 Amanmani is the son of four-time MLA from Nautanwa and Madhumita murder case convict   Tripathi, whom people call “Sher-e-Purvanchal”, his daughters claim. 
 
 “That lion is in shackles and only you can ensure his freedom,” pleads Tanushree before a small gathering at Thoothibari Crossing. It is 7pm while she has to reach for another corner meeting at another place near their election office. 
 
 After her schooling from a boarding school in Nainital, Tanushree did her masters in international relations from University of London. Like Tanushree, her younger sister Alankrita too went to a boarding school in Nainital and then did a fashion designing course before joining Karma online segment as head merchandiser for a year. 
 
 “We are educated people and not the family of murderers media has painted us to be,” Tanushree told TOI, adding that her father has been in politics for the past over three decades. “We did not choose politics. It is owing to the situation that we were forced into campaigning. Politics now is a matter of survival for us,” she said. 
 
 At another gathering, Tanushree pleads, “Our father has sent us here with the hope that people in Nautanwa are like their father, mother, brother and sisters who have supported him. Please protect us. Our political opponents are very strong and trying to frame my brother. Someone has told me that he met a man who admitted how Seema Singh (mother of late Sara, the wife of Amanmani) was being used by their family’s political opponents.”
 
 She told TOI that election at Nautanwa has become a prestige issue for   who has fielded Amanmani’s opponent and sitting Congress MLA Munna Singh on Samajwadi Party ticket. “We were close to Shivpal Yadavji, hence we were denied ticket,” she said. 
 
 At Laxmipur weekly market, Alankrita addressed people saying, “Whenever you needed something, be it road, electricity, or hospital, my father delivered readily. Today I only want his and my brother’s freedom.” She said with folded hands, “I was only 6 or 7 years old, when my father and mother went to jail. I would look for my parents in every corner of the house,” said Alankrita. 
 
 Amid slogans like “To kya karegi hathkadi Amanmani-Amanmani/Yeh faisle ki hai ghadi, Amanmani Amanmani”, Alankrita and Tanushree are joined by the entire clan. Preparing strategy and keeping close watch on the election campaigning progress are their grandfather, Amarmani’s uncle Shyam Narain Tiwari. A five-time MLA from Pharenda constituency, Tiwari said the recent incidents had affected the family but he was confident people of Nautanwa would support Amanmani.
 
 Maternal uncle of the two sisters, Ashwani Dubey, besides their cousins Anant and Amay are also in Nautanwa for Amanmani’s campaigning. 
 
 
