TRICHY: Cracking down on the increasing incidents of residents duped of money, the police arrested five persons in two separate cases in Trichy.

 Thillai Nagar police on Saturday arrested K Parameswari, 55, M Gowrimuthu alias Lakshmi, 52, from Puthur in Trichy and D Selvaraj, 53 from Mathur in Pudukkottai on charges of swindling Rs2,26,000 from S Sumathi of Thiruvanaikovil in Trichy. The police arrested them based on the complaint from Sumathi, that the trio promised her to get a housing loan of Rs1 crore from a bank, for which they demanded Rs10 lakhs as commission. 
 
 Believing in their words, Sumathi gave Rs 2.26 lakhs as advance several months back. Yet, the process for availing the housing loan failed to take off, prompting Sumathi to repeatedly ask them about the development. When the trio did not give a favorable reply, Sumathi lodged a complaint with the Thillai Nagar police recently.
 
 Acting on the complaint, police summoned the three persons and upon enquiry, the trio admitted to the crime. Police then recovered Rs80,000 cash and a car from them before the court remanded them in judicial custody.
 
 In another case, the City Crime Branch (CCB) arrested a couple for cheating of Rs24 lakhs from 60 Self Help Groups (SHGs) members in Srirangam on Friday. The case was registered following a direction from judicial magistrate court III in Trichy. The complainant filed a case in the court stating that S Kalyani, S Sasikala, her husband S   and Jayanthi alias   from Srirangam arranged a loan of Rs40,000 each for 60 members in five SHGs. 
 
 They also volunteered to collect the monthly repayment installment of Rs2000 from the 60 members and pay them at the bank on their behalf. The practice continued for the past two years and the total amount collected summed up to Rs24 lakhs. Recently, the SHG members came to know that the repayment was not made for the past two years.
 
 Police found that the allegations were true upon enquiry and began looking for the accused. But they were only able to arrest Sasikala and her husband Suresh Jeeva on Friday, while the hunt is on for the other two.
 
