Chandigarh: The Punjab and Haryana high court has imposed an exemplary cost of Rs 2 lakh on an ayurveda medical practitioner for filing a petition, on an issue already decided by the high court, on his plea in the past.

 While directing him to pay Rs 2 lakh, to be deposited in the registry of the high court within a month, the court also made it clear that in case the cost is not paid, it will launch contempt proceedings against him.
 
 The bench of Justice   has passed these orders while dismissing a plea filed by Pradeep Mahendru, a BAMS degree holder registered with the   and Unani System of Medicine, Haryana, under the provisions of Indian Medicine Central Council Act, 1970. He was the proprietor of   and Research Centre at Yamunanagar.
 
 The petitioner’s contention was against the exclusion of BAMS doctors from the list of “registered medical practitioner” under the PNDT Act on the grounds that it amounts to hostile discrimination with BAMS degree holders and violation of right to equality under the Constitution.
 
 During the hearing of the case, the HC found that the petitioner had filed similar petition challenging the Haryana government’s September 27, 2010 decision by which his claim to use ultrasound machine was turned down by the HC observing that the use of ultrasound machine or sonography by a BAMS degree holder has been expressly banned by the state in 2004 through a notification.
 
 Previously, dismissing his plea, the HC had also observed that such directions cannot be issued by the high court. The bench had observed that the MBBS or any other similar qualification based upon modern medical science was totally distinct and different from the ayurvedic system of medicines as was imparted in the BAMS degree course.
 
 Appeal against these orders had also been dismissed by a division bench and the decision was not challenged by him further in the apex court.
 
 In its September 8 orders, the HC found that despite the matter was already decided and settled, the petitioner still served a legal notice to the state requesting that the degree of BAMS be included in the list of “registered medical practitioner” under the PNDT Act.
 
 “Petition is totally unwarranted as the petitioner had already lost his case before this courtand is still filing one writ petition after the other. This petition is dismissed for misusing the process of law, exemplary cost is imposed upon him of Rs 2 lakh,” ordered the HC.
 
