KOCHI: A day after the district collector warned tanker trucks against overpricing, prominent resident associations have asked the district administration to regulate the tariff. They want the district administration to ensure that truckers give certain details such as the source of water and the distance travelled to bring it. The Ernakulam District Residents' Association Apex Council (EDRAAC) and Apartments Owners' Apex Association (AOAA) said the collector should give a chart on the charges that can be imposed by truckers obeying government norms.

  (KWA) supplies 1,000 litres for Rs 60. The collector himself had admitted that some tanker were selling water at Rs 4,000 for supplying water over a 10-km radius.
 
 “It appears to be a grey area. There are no efforts to check the rates charged by these trucks. If there is no clarity, truckers would continue to exploit residents. As summer sets in and water scarcity looms, the possibility of   disruption is high,“ said EDRACC president P Rangadasa Prabhu.
 
 AOAA president   said: “The price for supplying water increases as distance increases. But, there is no way we know the source of water or how far they had travelled to get it to us. There are no documents supporting their claim.When residents demand these documents, truckers refuse to furnish it and deny water supply.“
 
 Most trucks are reluctant to supply water during daytime. “They will come only late at night and the guard will have no choice but to let them fill the tank without checking the quantity. Nobody wants to lock horns with drivers or other crew members,“ he added.
 
 Prabhu also said some tankers supplied 4,000 litres for Rs 2,000-2500 to regular customers. Non-regular customers who are facing an emergency will have to pay higher price. “Those who need water urgently will have to pay an extra Rs 500,“ he said.
 
 It is also pointed that 6000 litres of water is supplied at areas near Vennala for Rs 800 and the rate is Rs 900 for the same quantity in areas near Chilavanoor bund road.“When it is impossible to confirm the source of the water, how will it be possible to determine the distance trav elled? We have to pay whatever the truckers demand,“ said Venugopal, a resident near Chilavanoor bund road.
 
 Ernakulam District Drinking Water Tankers' Welfare Association has maintained that they have to meet the fuel expenses and truck staff wages. However, the association has never given the exact tariff. Giving an example, an association member said that for bringing 6,000 litres from KWA's supply point in Aluva to Kakkanad, they have to pay Rs 360 to KWA, Rs 125 for the driver and Rs 500 on fuel. “The expenses would total to around Rs 1,000. The water supplied would be charged on the basis of such expenses,“ said an officer bearer of the welfare association.
 
