Senior BJP functionary  , who was sworn in as deputy chief minister on Thursday, believes   combine will create miracles in the state and ensure NDA’s massive victory in 2019   elections. “Anti-Congress component is there in Nitish’s blood,” he says in a chat with TOI’s  . Excerpts: 

 Q. Was Nitish’s return to NDA pre-planned?
 
 Bihar BJP had nothing to do with the rift in Grand Alliance. It was at a recent meeting of BJP legislator party that at least 27 of 29 BJP MLAs favoured Nitish’s return to NDA. As the central leadership of our party had asked us to assess the mood of legislators, we conveyed to them that conditions are conducive to join hands with JD (U).
 
 Q. What were the conditions put forth by JD (U) and BJP for the alliance?
 
 The alliance is unconditional.
 
 Q. Nitish severed his 17-year-old ties with BJP in 2013 and now he has parted ways with RJD and Congress. How long do you think the NDA would survive in the state?
 
 No alliance is ever made on bond paper and nobody can guarantee the continuation of a political alliance. The end of GA was inevitable because it was an unnatural alliance and Nitish also has anti-Congress component in his blood. However, our alliance is going to be completely stable as all of us are committed towards all-round development of Bihar.
 
 Q. Do you think BJP would gain in Bihar in 2019 general elections with Nitish on its side?
 
 Nitish-NaMo combine will create miracles in the state and this alliance will sweep the Lok Sabha elections in 2019. Chemistry between Nitish and NaMo on issues of corruption and good governance would foster rapid development in Bihar.
 
 Q. BJP was opposing functioning of the GA government. Now what?
 
 We were never against any projects of Nitish government. The BJP was only opposed to the mode of execution of government schemes. In fact, we always appreciated Nitish’s clear stand on his ideology, transparency and good governance. It’s for the first time in Bihar since 1990 that same alliance is at the Centre as well as in the state.
 
 Q. What would happen to the ambitious programmes of GA, including seven resolves of the CM and  ?
 
 We were never opposed to seven resolves. Any decision on schemes of the previous government would be taken upon their review and in consultation with CM  .
 
 Q. What will happen to Nitish’s special status demand for Bihar?
 
 Deliberations would be held on all such issues. As NDA is committed to development of Bihar, the state can get more than what it is expecting from special status.
 
 Q. Are the two parties on the same page vis-à-vis ministerial berths?
 
 Decision on distribution of ministerial berths will be taken after vote of confidence on Friday. Several MLAs of RJD and Congress are in touch with us, but we don’t require their support as we already have 132 MLAs with us.
 
