NEW DELHI: Gujarat Lions finally opened their account in the IPL Points-Table with a comprehensive seven-wicket win over the Rising Pune Supergiant. Australian bowler Andrew Tye set the base with a hat-trick, finishing with the first five-wicket haul of this IPL and it was followed by an imposing 91-run stand by Brendon McCullum and Dwayne Smith that took the game away from the Supergiant.

 We split the game in five various passages of play that determined the outcome.
 
 
  
 Match 13 of the Vivo Indian Premier League between Gujarat Lions and Rising Pune Supergiant was Suresh Raina’s 150th IPL game, and the Gujarat Lions skipper celebrated the occasion in a manner only he could - pulling off a screamer in the first over of the match to hand Gujarat early success, something they have struggled to do so far in the tournament. Here’s how it went down. Praveen Kumar opened the bowling for the Lions after Raina won the toss and sent the Supergiant in. Third ball of the match, PK got the ball to nip back into Rahane. The batsman chose to cut the ball but all he managed was an outside edge. Raina anticipated the ball to go towards his right. He had already taken a step in that direction only to realize that the ball was flying between him and wicketkeeper Dinesh Karthik. In a flash, Raina threw his body to his left and plucked the ball out of thin air. The IPL has witnessed some breathtaking catches, and Raina’s effort can be slotted right up there in the lot.
 
 
 
 MS Dhoni’s batting form is perhaps the most debatable topic in Indian cricket at the moment. With scores of 12, 5 and 11 in the previous three matches, Dhoni here walked in when the Supergiant had lost a well-set Steve Smith and then Ben Stokes in a span of three overs. With that, the Supergiant, who had rocketed off to 100 in 10 overs were pegged back. If there was a better time and occasion for Dhoni to prove his critics wrong, this was it. But instead, all Dhoni managed were three singles and a two before former Chennai Super Kings teammate   trapped him leg-before wicket. It was full and straight from the allrounder, and Dhoni, attempting a lofted stroke, missed the skidding ball. Up went the finger.
 
 
 
 For the first time in history, IPL has recorded two hat-tricks in a day, and both by players playing the first match for their respective franchises. After Royal Challengers Bangalore’s Samuel Badree, it was Australian Andrew Tye, in his first IPL match, who picked up three wickets in three balls. Last over of the day, Tye dismissed Ankit Sharma, Manoj Tiwary and Shardul Thakur to dent Rising Pune Supergiant’s of finishing the innings with a flourish. Brendon McCullum took a brilliant catch near the long-on ropes to dismiss Ankit off Tye's first ball, which was followed by Tiwary's dismissal with a slower delivery. The Australian completed the hat-trick by shattering Thakur’s leg stump and finished with impressive figures of five for 17 in his four overs. It could have been four in one over had Ravindra Jadeja not drop Rahul Chahar's catch at deep mid-wicket off the last ball. Tye had recorded a hat-trick against Brisbane Heat at the latest edition of the Big Bash League as well. No prize for guessing who the Man of the Match was. 
 
 
 
 The opening pair of Brendon McCullum and Dwayne Smith had scored some over 1200 runs for CSK and Gujarat combined. Hence, it was surprising not to see them open the innings in Gujarat’s two previous games. Having lost them both, Raina must have had to shuffle a few things around, and as it turned out one of them was to have Smith and McCullum open the innings. It happened on Friday and the result was an incredible 61/0 in the Powerplay. McCullum and Smith put on 94 runs for the first wicket in just 8.3 overs to start the chase in a blazing manner. Inside Powerplay, Smith scored at a strike-rate of over 200 while McCullum’s was a shade under 150. It was neat and powerful hitting from both; no bowler spared, and that included the No. 1 bowler in limited-overs international Imran Tahir, who bled 53 in four - McCullum swatting him for 21 in his second over; three fours and a six. Smith on the other hand took Ferguson and Chahar for back to back fours in their first. The magnitude of the assault was such that the Supergiant could never recover from that point onward.
 
 
 
 For a brief period, the Supergiant seemed to be staging a nice little comeback as they chipped away with three wickets for 17 runs in four overs before Raina took centerstage. In the company of Aaron Finch, another batsman with disappointing scores behind him, Raina motored along in a quest to see off the remaining 61 runs. Raina chanced his arms by lofting a googly from Rahul Chahar over the long-on fence, and followed it with back-to-back boundaries off Stokes and Tahir. Finch at the other end, seemed to be picking up boundaries comfortably, and with 21 required, knocked those off with a boundary and consecutive sixes.
 
