SHIMLA: With the assembly elections around the corner, both   and the   are planning to field new faces from some seats and denying tickets to sitting MLAs. While the BJP is likely to give tickets on the basis of internal surveys, Congress, too, has decided to go for those candidates having the potential to win. Many sitting MLAs are having sleepless nights these days as both parties have made up their minds to project young and new faces this time.

 With the massive use of social media tools, especially Facebook and Whatsapp, both parties are trying to reach out to the young voters. After the special revision of electoral rolls, 1,25,556 new voters have been registered in the state,including 40,567 voters in the age group of 18-19 years and 84,989 voters above 19 years of age.
 
 In the 2012 assembly election, the BJP had won 26 seats while the Congress had got 36. 
 
 Sources in the BJP say the party has not ruled out the possibility of huge surprises in many seats during ticket distribution and new faces are likely to be fielded in 30-40% seats. A senior BJP leader said the central leadership would select candidates on the basis of surveys conducted from time to time along with internal reports. 
 
 “As the party has already launched ‘Mission 50 Plus’ campaign in the state and is eyeing to win over 60 seats, only those with the potential to win would be given tickets. New faces will also be projected from seats where anti-incumbency factor is also an issue,” he added.
 
 Like BJP, even the Congress has decided to field new faces on some seats to ensure the success of ‘Mission Repeat’ campaign launched by it as the Congress leadership realizes that coming to power for the second time in a row in   has been a challenge for every party. 
 
 A senior Congress leader said those MLAs whose performance was not upto the mark besides some whose age has become an issue might not be ticket. “On how many seats new faces would be projected has not been decided as yet,” he added. 
 
 Another Congress leader said there was a need to project young faces within the party to develop second line of leadership. He added that in over a dozen seats, the Congress might field the new faces this time.
 
 
