VISAKHAPATNAM: If plans of AP tourism department turns into reality, a floating restaurant will become an added tourist attraction in the port city.

 Floating restaurants are famous at Phuket in Thailand and Goa in the country.
 
 As the state government is leaving no stone unturned to lure tourists across the globe, it has allowed private companies with experience in running such tourism projects to start ventures in the state.
 
 Accordingly, Goa-based Champions Yatch Club Pvt Ltd signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with AP government’s Youth Advancement Tourism and Culture (YAT&C) at the recently held CII-AP Partnership Summit to set up a floating restaurant and operate a fast ferry on a pilot basis in the port city.
 
 According to tourism officials, YAT&C has signed MoUs with different companies to set up 58 tourism projects at an estimated cost of Rs 6,565.75 crore. The floating restaurant at Visakhapatnam is estimated to cost Rs 207 crore, sources said. While all 58 tourism projects are proposed to generate employment for 62,321 people in the state, the floating restaurant promises to provide employment to 220 people, the tourism sources added.
 
 A senior official from the tourism department said, “Having signed the MoU, the project has taken off. There will be a lot of preliminary exercise to officially confirm the project. It sounds to be an attractive feature but the sea is not viable for it. There is one reservoir — Mudasarlova — under GVMC limits which is viable. Prolonged discussions and consultations with the public too needs to be done,” the tourism official opined.
 
 The backwaters of   will also be considered if there is no security issue, other sources said.
 
 Generally,   (Vuda) takes care of major tourism projects in the city such as   and Kailasagiri. Chances of Vuda handling such a project is also not ruled out, Vuda sources said.
 
 When contacted, Vuda vice-chairman T Baburao Naidu said, “The floating restaurant project proposal is yet to arrive to Vuda.”
 
 The floating restaurant will have dining halls, convocation halls for birthday parties, marriages and bar and restaurant. Visitors will be ferried to the restaurant.
 
