Panaji: They say home is where the heart is, but, for Goan politicians, the heart can travel wherever their constituencies are.

 For close to 50% of Goa’s MLAs, past and present, the constituencies they represent or even contest from are not their permanent addresses. For the record, candidates who contest the state assembly polls have to be voters in the same constituency they contest from. But, Goa’s politicians have probably taken care of that requirement. Many of them maintain two residences to get themselves enrolled as voters in the constituencies they wish to contest from.
 
 Let’s start from the north. Pernem MLA Rajendra Arlekar lives in Vasco. Till 2012, the northernmost Pernem taluka had a constituency called Dhargalim, which is now merged into the Pernem constituency. The Dhargalim constituency was represented by Manohar ‘Babu’ Azgaonkar, who lives in Margao. The coastal constituency of Mandrem, also in Pernem, was formerly represented by Ramakant Khalap, who lives in Mapusa.
 
 In Bardez, former Aldona MLA Dayanand Narvekar lives in Mapusa, while current Aldona MLA Glenn Souza Ticlo lives in Calangute. Porvorim MLA Rohan Khaunte lived in Altinho, Panaji, before shifting to the Porvorim constituency. Moving to Sattari, Poriem MLA Pratapsingh Rane lives in Sakhali, while Valpoi MLA Vishwajit Rane lives in Dona Paula.
 
 Tiswadi also sees a similar pattern. Former St Cruz MLA Atanasio ‘Babush’ Monserrate, who contested the Panaji constituency in the February 4 polls, lives in Taleigao, while Cumbharjua MLA Pandurang Madkaikar lives in Campal, Panaji.
 
 Panaji is also the residence of Mormugao’s Cortalim MLA Alina Saldanha, while former MLA of Poinguinim constituency, now merged with the Canacona constituency, Isidore Fernandes, also lives in Panaji.
 
 But, if you thought Panaji was the favoured ‘home ground’ of Goa’s politicians, think again. Former Panaji MLA Manohar Parrikar lives in Mapusa. Going southwards again, Dabolim MLA Mauvin Godinho lives in Caranzalem, Taleigao, while in the Ponda taluka, Priol MLA Pandurang ‘Deepak’ Dhavalikar lives in Madkai and Ponda MLA Lavoo Mamledar lives in Porvorim.
 
 Further down, Sanguem MLA Subhash Phal Dessai lives in Quepem and only shifted to Sanguem recently, while in Salcete, two of Navelim’s former MLAs lived outside the constituency. Luizinho Faleiro lives in Borda, Margao, while Churchill Alemao lives in Varca, Benaulim. Churchill’s brother, the former Cuncolim MLA Joaquim Alemao also lives in Varca. Joaquim lost the Cuncolim seat in 2012, but, contested in the constituency again, this year. Like him, another aspirant who was not a resident of the constituency was BJP’s Curtorim candidate Arthur Fernandes, who lives in Fatorda.
 
 With inputs from Govind Kamat Maad & Suraj P Kaisuvker
 
 
