With the Indian Women's Cricket Team entering the World Cup semifinals after beating New Zealand, the focus of cricket fans has shifted to the girls from the boys. Since the men's cricket team lost the Champions Trophy to Pakistan, the country's hopes are now riding on the new Captain Cool, Mithali Raj, to bring home the trophy. There's one group of girls in Delhi for whom the team's performance is especially inspiring- the   of  . They feel that the women’s games have always been taken casually, but now,  's sixes and Deepti Sharma's bowling are bringing it some much-deserved attention. 

  These young cricketers of DU, who have always watched men's cricket because "those were the only matches shown on television," are proud that the Indian women's team has brought a change in people’s attitudes and new favourite cricket players.
 
 
  
  (BCCL/ Ranjit Kumar)
 
  Laxmi Yadav, the wicket-keeper of Kamala Nehru's cricket team, says, "Ab toh semifinals bhi jeet liya, jeet jayenge finals bhi. My favourite player is Smriti Mandhana. Woh khade-khade chhakke marti hain. Player ho toh unke jaisi ho. I watch all her matches because I also get to learn the postures and her techniques. I also really like one more player, Mithali Raj. She is actually captain cool. She can come up with best of the responses off the field and reminds me of MS Dhoni when she plays."
 
  Shweta, an all-rounder from the cricket team of  , says, "My favourite player is Deepti Sharma and Harmanpreet Kaur, they both are all-rounders like me. Deepti bahut chhoti hain, aur woh iss age mein country ke liye khel rahi hain. Not everyone can reach this level at such an early stage, so I really like her. The times are changing now. A lot of people did not accept that women can also play cricket, but because of the performance of our players in the World Cup, they know mostly all the players now. Aajkal toh jahan jao, log bass Mithali Raj ke baare mein baat kar rahe hote hain, jo ki pehle kabhi nahi hua."
 
 
  
  
  
    from Lakshmibai College, also an all-rounder, says that her favourite player is Deepti Sharma. "She can bat, bowl and field as well. Woh sab kar leti hain, mujhe woh tabhi bahut pasand hain. These are our role models. The girls have come a long way and shown the world that women's cricket can also be interesting. Most people who would watch these matches earlier, would say, 'Slow game hai, kya hi khel rahin hain!' But I see that the mindset towards the game is changing, only because our women’s cricket team is doing great in the World Cup. Ladko ne toh kuch kiya nahi, toh ab ladkiyon se hi umeed kar rahe hain."
 
 
  
  GIRL POWER! Shweta and Deepa from Gargi College, Laxmi Yadav and Barkha Yadav from Kamala Nehru College, and Vaishali Mathur, Kirti Arya and   from Jesus & Mary College (BCCL/ Ranjit Kumar)
 
 Soniya Dohiya, a bowler from KNC's cricket team, talks about her favourite player, Ekta Bisht. "This tournament has given favourite players to everyone. I am glad to see that people are beginning to accept the fact that women can also play. I think that this is the first time that the women's team is being given importance like the men’s cricket team. This will surely open many options for girls like us, who really want to pursue a career in cricket."
 
 
  
  
 
  Jasleen Khokhar from Jesus and Mary College's cricket team, says, "My favourite player is Jhulan Goswami. She comes from a small town (Nadia in West Bengal) and despite all odds, she is one of the fastest bowlers we have. I really like her game, and she is also tall like me (laughs). Whenever I am bowling, I try to compare myself with her."
 
  Vaishali Mathur, captain of JMC's cricket team, says, "I really like the way Deepti Sharma plays. She is the youngest player in the team right now, and an inspiration for most of us. I think that this is the best time for women's cricket team in India because they are performing really well. Their performance gives us the encouragement to do well, so that we can also play for the country one day."
 
 
  
 
 
