BHOPAL: Leader of Opposition   has given 48 hours to Madhya Pradesh chief minister   to remove minister Lal Singh Arya on Saturday against whom a court in Bhind issued an arrest warrant in connection with the murder of former   MLA Makhanlal Jatav.

 Speaking to reporters, Ajay Singh said, “I am giving 48 hours to the chief minister so that there is enough time to take the resignation from Lal Singh Arya. If there is no resignation by Monday evening, then on Tuesday I will sit in agitation outside the chief minister’s residence.”
 
 The Congress leader expressed his shock over the BJP state government “trying to protect a minister who has been made accused in a murder case by a court of law.” Ajay Singh argued that if such an incident occurred in other states, the minister would have resigned by now and legal proceedings would have been initiated against him.
 
 “But Madhya Pradesh has a different set of rules and laws for the ruling party. Here, even after a court order the state BJP president says that he does not agree with the directive. This is outright contempt of court. Maybe, the BJP thinks it has become bigger than the country’s legal justice system. They are openly challenging the judiciary,” Singh said.
 
 “Had he been a minister of AAP, then by now police would have reached his residence. That is precisely what happened to an AAP minister after a police complaint was registered against him. My question is why this double standard? BJP accepted resignation from former minister Anoop Mishra when his relative was accused of murder, so why is it protecting Lal Singh Arya who is himself an accused?” Singh asked.
 
 Singh accused the Shivraj Singh Chouhan government of protecting ministers who have been involved in unlawful activities. He said that minister for food and civil supplies   Dhurve took Rs 16 crore for his NGO to run mobile hospitals in tribal areas. An RTI application found that all the ambulance numbers for mobile hospitals provided by the minister were fake. “There was no ambulance, no doctors, no paramedical staff and no mobile hospital,” Ajay Singh said. “And yet he continues to be a minister in the government.”
 
