KOLKATA: The   in   was attacked on Tuesday evening by men holding   and chanting slogans against Narendra Modi, minutes after the arrest of   at the CGO complex in Salt Lake.

 The men damaged cars and injured several   supporters and policemen and blocked CR Avenue for over five hours till central forces were brought in, following which the agitation subsided. The demonstrators sat on dharna till 8.30pm.
 
 According to BJP supporters at the two-storeyed office at Muralidhar Sen Lane off CR Avenue near College Street, a group of around 15 youths wielding   flags and wearing bike helmets first ran down the alley from the CR Avenue-end and began throwing bricks at the office. They allegedly smashed at least five car windscreens, including one belonging to BJP leader Rahul Sinha.
 
 “I was walking towards the BJP office after sipping a cup of tea when I found a group of youths running towards the office, and one of them hit me with a brick. It hit my head and I slumped on the road. There were policemen nearby but none stopped them,” said Pankaj Singhania, a BJP youth leader from north Kolkata. When TOI spotted him around 6pm, he was still lying on the footpath opposite the BJP office, along with fellow leader Amitabha Roy. Singhania was bleeding from the side of his head and Roy said he was hit on his temple and legs.
 
 BJP supporters also retaliated with bricks and stones and called for police help.
 
 “The Trinamool supporters have gheraoed us from both ends of the road and are not even allowing us to take our supporters to hospital for treatment. It clearly shows which party is more vindictive,” said Sinha, who himself was chased away when he tried to reason with the protesters.
 
 As the day progressed, more Trinamool supporters started pouring in and sat on a dharna on CR Avenue and the Hindu Hostel end of Muralidhar Sen Lane. By 5pm, there were around 500 of them, and by 6.30pm, more than 1,500 supporters from different wards of north and central Kolkata were at the spot, along with councillors. “We demand the immediate release of Sudip-da. His arrest is politically motivated. We will not leave the place unless he is freed,” said Gopal Chandra Saha, the councillor of Ward 46.
 
 As the crowd began to build, the supporters tried to break the barricade and were even successful in doing so at the Hindu Hostel end, when they climbed on the roof of some parked cars around 7.30pm and began a second round of attack. Cops, however, lathi-charged this time to send the supporters scurrying behind the barricade on Madan Mohan Sen Street once again.
 
 The first to reach the spot was the Jorasanko police. Officer-in-charge Amit Rakshit was getting off his vehicle near the BJP headquarters when bricks hurled towards BJP supporters hit his legs. The alleged Trinamool Congress Chhatra Parishad supporters tried entering the BJP office from both ends — one using the CR Avenue entrance and the other from the Eden Hostel side.
 
 Outnumbered, the cops beat a hasty retreat. By the time the cops called in reinforcements, the BJP office was virtually under siege.
 
 It took the cops four more hours to act. The dharna was finally lifted at the insistence of Swarnakamal Saha, the Trinamool MLA from Entally.
 
 
