PUNE: After a 20-year battle with   (PMC), Salisbury Park residents won the case to save the open space in their vicinity for a swimming pool, a children's play area, a Nana-Nani park and other recreational activities. 

 A plot of prime land close to Gul Poonawala park has become a symbol of citizens’ fight to save open spaces and in 2016 the   stood by the citizens. 
 
 The civic body wanted the land de-reserved and then permit commercial construction. Local residents protested and took their appeal to the apex court which overturned the decision and ordered the civic body to acquire the land.
 
 This is not the only case where Puneites have locked horns with the PMC, politicos and land sharks, to save open plots reserved to develop civic amenities. 
 
 Under pressure from politicians, the civic administration has repeatedly tried to scrap  , a popular recreational centre for children opposite Sarasbaug. The civic body wanted to give the land for other purposes to get more money from the lease. Citizens build a pressure and launched agitation to save this open space for children. 
 
 Members of a housing society (survey number 47 in Parvati) locked horns with a local politician to save their land. A transport operator parked trucks and tempos on the land and the godown owner had allegedly evaded octroi. The residents claimed civic officials in Tilak Road ward office had been ignoring their complaints, and they were hand-in- glove with the encroacher. Citizens then took the battle to court.
 
 They registered another victory when the state government in 2015 gave its nod to protect the proposed Biodiversity Park (BDP) and issued a notification stating that no construction will be allowed on hilltops and hill slopes. 
 
 The Development Plan (DP) for the 23 merged villages had recommended reservation of 1,600 hectares of land for the BDP. This includes 978 hectares held by individuals while the rest of land is under government control. Since 2005 when the DP was approved by the PMC, corporators and politicians across party lines have been demanding scrapping of the BDP and opened up green spaces for construction. 
 
 However,   (GPM), a group of citizens has been fighting for the protection of BDPs. The state government had to listen to citizens’ voice. Aneeta Gokhale Benninger, a member of the planning committee which recommended BDP, had taken the lead in forming a citizens’ group called Green Pune Movement.
 
 “The combined strength of the citizens saved BDP. The citizens’ movement since 2005 has sustained strongly and will continue to oppose any effort to destroy the lungs of the city.” 
 
 The Supreme Court, in its judgment in the Sundew Apartment case, stated that an appropriately planned city requires good roads, parks, playgrounds, markets, primary and secondary schools, clinics, dispensaries and hospitals and sewerage facilities among other public amenities essential for a good civic life. 
 
 “If all the spaces in the cities are covered only by construction for residential houses, the cities will become concrete jungles which is what they have started becoming. That is how there is need to protect the spaces meant for public amenities which cannot be sacrificed for the greed of a few landowners and builders to make more money on the ground of creating large number of houses.” the Court observed.
 
 The state-appointed committee to revise the Development Plan (DP) for the old city area had deleted 390 reservations for various amenities proposed by the civic administration in the original draft saying there was no point in augmenting reservations when the civic body has failed to execute the reservations made in the 1987 DP. The government restored reservations in a big way, but experts are unsure if the PMC will be able to develop reservations.
 
 Civic activist Vijay Kumbhar, who fought the Sundew case in court to protect civic amenity space, said, “Politicians and developers are very much interested in open spaces in the city considering the skyrocketing prices of land. Time and again, we have seen that the administration, politicians and developers have joined hands to grab public space. Citizens have to be alert to save them,” Kumbhar said. 
 
 Open spaces can include green space comprising trees, shrubs, other vegetation, parks, community gardens, and cemeteries, school yards, playgrounds, public seating areas, public plazas and vacant lots 
 
 (With inputs from Radheshyam Jadhav & Abhijit Atre) 
 
