Mohali: District   Disputes Redressal Forum, Mohali has directed Samsung Service Centre, Phase V, Mohali and Samsung India Electronics, New Delhi to refund the price of a faulty mobile phone and also pay compensation of Rs 10,000 to complainant, Rakesh Kumar, Mohali.

 The complainant had purchased a Samsung Galaxy J 7, Gold from Anmol Watches & Electronics, Sector 22, Chandigarh for Rs 14,300 in February 18, 2016. The mobile has not been working properly since its purchase, following which Kumar contacted Samsung service centre on February 29, 2016 and submitted the mobile phone at their service centre. On April 8, 2016 when the mobile was not working, the complainant submitted his mobile with Samsung service, who refused to repair the mobile handset. Despite sending e-mails to the centre, the handset was not repaired. 
 
 The complaint has been contested by Samsung service centre and Samsung India Electronics by filing joint reply in which it has been pleaded that as the mobile handset is within warranty, Samsung never refused to carry out the repairs and are still ready and willing to do so. As the complainant is seeking refund/replacement of the handset, it’s his responsibility to prove that the handset is not capable of being repaired. The complainant has not attached any proof to prove that there is any manufacturing defect in the mobile handset.
 
 As per the complainant from April 15, 2016 to May 4, 2016 there were Whatsapp and network issues in the handset but on checking, no problem was found. Kumar made the statement that he does not want to claim any relief against Anmol Watches & Electronics. Court after hearing the arguments said, ‘The complainant has purchased the mobile set from Anmol. The mobile handset of the complainant started giving problems after few days of purchase. The complainant visited the service centre many a times but his problem of mobile handset was not resolved whereas Samsung have specifically denied that they have never refused to carry out any repairs and they have also done the repairs as and when the complainant visited the service centre.” Kumar proved that Samsung is deficient in resolving the problems of the handset, which was newly purchased, added court.
 
 After hearing the arguments, the court directed the centre to refund to the complainant the price of the mobile handset, which was Rs 14,300. The centre and Samsung India were asked to pay Rs 10,000 to the complainant as compensation for mental harassment and costs of litigation.
 
 
