DELHI: Pushing ahead with its agenda of decentralising waste water treatment, Delhi Jal Board has identified around 600 locations where decentralised sewage treatment plants (STP) could be set up. All these locations are in unauthorised colonies and villages -areas where the majority of population has no access to a sewerage network.Chief minister Arvind  , who recently took charge of DJB, reviewed the project on Monday . “DJB has identified about 600 locations under phase-I of the project. Earlier this month, the CM had visited three decentralised STPs in   ( ) areas and wanted to follow a similar concept for other areas of Delhi. The decentralised STPs will be installed in places where a sewer network does not exist at present and the treated water will be used for different purposes like water body recharge, horticulture and other non-potable uses,“ said a DJB official.

 DJB has been pursuing the concept of decentralised water treatment for the past few months. A major reason for this plan was the lack of land for STPs and the size of those already existing. “Delhi government has no land at its disposal for the creation of a suitable number of STPs. In any case, Delhi itself may not have such a large parcel of land available at specific places. Decentralised STPs are convenient be cause only a small parcel of land is needed for them.Secondly , because of the scale of construction and relatively smaller area of land required, decentralised STPs are much cheaper,“ said the official.
 
 DJB said that going in for decentralised plants also gives them the freedom to choose the technology . An official explained that an STP in a residential colony, compared to one located in an unauthorised area where lo cal industry is situated, would need different technology to get the same quality of treated effluent.
 
 “For a 500 kilolitre per day plant, we would need between 100 sqm to 200 sqm for the STP, depending on the technology being used. Our focus is on the output, not on the technology ,“ he added.
 
 The government is further considering making it compulsory for group housing societies, schools, apartment buildings, etc to have decentralised STPs onsite. “A rule already exists that makes it compulsory for new buildings to have in-situ waste treatment and there is a 15% rebate if such a project exists. For older buildings, it will be an expensive process and we are looking at means of making it more viable for them,“ the official said.
 
 These STP can treat sewage locally, like in colonies or group housing societies.In fact, it may even be made compulsory for government schools, apartment buildings, government buildings, etc. This would also mean that the treated waste water can be used locally for horticulture, flushing, etc,“ added the official.
 
 
