PUNE: In their quest to retain seats, corporators aren’t even letting stray animals be. Activists say that illegal stray dog relocations have nearly doubled since the year began. In most cases, drivers of the civic body’s dog sterilisation vans were directly summoned by influential persons, activists claim.

 According to Meher Mathrani, animal welfare officer, Pune, the relocation of   is illegal unless specific conditions exist. “As per a Supreme Court ruling, the animals can be relocated only in case they are rabid or found to be highly aggressive. However, in many instances, people falsely complain of a dog bite so they can have the dog removed from their vicinity,” she said.
 
 Nitesh Khare, zone-1 head for   (ALERT), added, “Until six months ago, most requests for dog relocations on the civic body’s webpage came from corporators. This system was changed so that dog relocations were minimised and the SC ruling was followed. Now, our volunteers accompany the vans and ensure that dogs are identified and dropped back to their spots within a week after sterilisation.”
 
 Barely 5% of the 40 to 50 dogs that are picked up each week on official complaints are relocated, say activists. The legal relocations too have declined as the dog pound is shut at the moment. However, Khare alleged that this has given rise to instances of certain corporators and other influential residents bribing the drivers to relocate the dogs to the outskirts of the city or another area.
 
 “The drivers are paid between Rs1,000 and Rs1,500 to relocate a dog from an area. We used to receive reports of 5 to 6 dogs being relocated similarly each day until the end of 2016. This has risen to almost 10 dogs a day since the past one-and-half months. Nine out of 10 times, if a corporator or someone associated with them calls the drivers, the dogs get relocated. A volunteer just reported seeing a pack of eight dogs in Shivajinagar even thought they were never seen there earlier. This is possibly a case of such relocation,” he said.
 
 Deputy health officer at the   (PMC), Anjali Sabne stated that the department had received complaints from two activists. “About a month ago, we had warned the van drivers to not accept any money or carry out any such activities. If any political influence was used in such incidents, we will enquire into the same. The problem is that many citizens assume that by simply making calls, the dogs will be taken away, which is not the case,” she told TOI.
 
 Sabne further added that only dogs that have not been sterilised can be picked up and they have to be dropped back at the same place within 3-5 days post sterilisation. No puppies, pregnant females or sterilised dogs can be taken away.
 
 These dogs are generally released in the outskirts of the city limits, said animal welfare activist Aletha Tavares. Vineeta Vadhera, who works in the areas under the Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) and nearby, stated that she has noted at least 60 per cent increase of similar relocations. “Most of the dogs picked up are pregnant females as people fear that more dogs will begin living in the area,” she said.
 
 “Such unplanned and unnecessary relocation can do more harm than good. We encourage feeding of dogs in all areas, as the animals begin to trust the feeder and when time comes for their sterilisation, the dogs comply instead of fleeing or getting aggressive. This way, the dog population remains under control,” Mathrani explained.
 
