Arti Singh’s journey has been a struggle to fit in, both personally and professionally. The actress, who was separated from her biological parents soon after her birth, spent her childhood and teenage yearning for a sense of belonging. On the career front, despite hailing from a Bollywood family —   is her uncle — her entry into the television industry wasn’t smooth; it took her a decade to be accepted as a lead. 
However, as they say, the wait has been worth it. After playing a docile bhabhi and submissive sister, she is finally playing the central character in 'Waaris', a show that revolves around a mother and daughter. Ask her what made her agree to play a mother at this stage of her career and she replies, “The concept is interesting. Also, since it was important to be counted as a lead actor, the age of the character wasn’t a priority. My focus is to play central characters.” 
 
 She adds, “Ironically, I arrived in the industry before my brother Krushna and cousin Ragini, but I have been the last to reach this level.” Never one to lose hope, Arti worked towards her goal by grooming herself and losing extra kilos. She elaborates, “I have lost almost five to six kgs and am continuing to follow my diet. The channel was apprehensive after I lost weight since I am playing a mother in the show, but I believe that after a year, people are now connecting me with the character.” 
 
 While she enjoys playing mom on screen, Arti has no memory of her real mother. She says, “My maa died after giving birth to me. While my brother Krushna stayed with my father in Mumbai, I moved to Lucknow after I was adopted by my mother’s sister-in-law. I could never get the love of my biological parents. It made me bitter, but I love my foster mother unconditionally. She has never made me feel that I am not her biological child. I am lucky to have a mom like her.”
 
 However, a series of her childhood pics on her Instagram account bear cryptic captions suggesting that she isn’t too fond of those memories. “That’s true. I developed several complexes while visiting Krushna, Ragini and Tina (Govinda’s daughter) as a child. I had an awful fashion sense and couldn’t speak in English, something they were fluent in. There was a wide gap between us. I would often feel like the odd one out with them. Also, I wasn’t too well off and had to make do with whatever we could afford,” she states.
 
 Today, the siblings are inseparable. In fact, Arti says that she takes pride in being called Krushna’s sister. “From being pushed out of the frame by media as they wanted to click the more popular siblings — Krushna and Ragini, I am now acknowledged as his sister. Haven’t I come a long way? My brother is everything for me and I am his only family. It would have been difficult to survive in Mumbai without his support,” she says.
 
 That doesn’t mean she approves of everything he does, though. Arti made her stand clear when Krushna was in the news for upsetting Govinda by mimicking him on his comedy show. She says, “People expect Abu (Krushna) to imitate mama. Still, no one should make fun of stalwarts. I told Abu to apologise to mama as soon as I learnt about him being upset. Chi Chi mama has done so much for us that we shouldn’t even think of hurting him. He is a father figure and we earned a great deal of respect even before entering the industry because we belonged to his family. That can’t be forgotten,” she says.
 
 On matters of the heart, Arti is in no mood to fall in love again after splitting from actor  . “I have told my mom to find a groom for me. In fact, I never wanted to act. My sole ambition in life was to get married and have kids, but destiny brought me here. An actor proposed to me in January, but when I asked him to wait for two months, he moved on (laughs). People have no patience nowadays. This profession doesn’t give you time for your personal life. I want to get married now and have babies. I might not continue acting after that,” she concludes.
 
  
  
 
