UDUPI: Union minister for human resource development,   addressed the students at Manipal University on Sunday and said, “India is facing a historic transformation from cash to a cashless society and students are the best volunteers of it. They are a part of this historic movement. Hence, they have to decide whether they want to be an active part of it or not. To help them, the government has launched Vittiya Saksharta Abhiyan (VISAKA), a digital financial literacy campaign. 

 From the last 20 days, 2.3 lakh students have registered as volunteers for the campaign. The mission of the campaign is to support and guide digitalized India. He urged the students to use digital form of transactions and also guide their family members and neighbours to use digital modes. 
 
 One person should let 10 families know the benefit of  . The students, who do so (video testimonies of 10 families to be uploaded on the MHRD website) will be recognized with letter of appreciation, awarded with certificates. There are so lucky draws and mega bumper draw.
 
 “Before Independence, Mahatma Gandhi gave a call to students to become the agent for change. Lots of them became soldiers of Independent India. Youth was responsible to achieve swaraj. In 1975, democracy was clamped and there was an emergency rule. To restore democracy, students had to fight and they won the battle of democracy. Therefore, a lot will depend on the students to bring about the change from a cash-based society to a cashless society,” he said. 
 
 All should understand that money is not cash, it is just a medium of exchange. We started from Barter system to coins, notes, plastic (debit and credit) to digital. Now, you have an option to exchange money with a tap of your finger. 
 
 Old generation people may have problems to adopt the changes because of their mind-set, however, youth of the country can adapt to the changes fast. Developed and developing countries, have 3 to 4 % of their GDP in currency components and we have 12 % of it. It is the high time India turns digital.
 
 Issuing 109 crore Aadhaar cards is one of the major digital initiative by the government. 30 years ago, mobiles were rare and now life without mobile cannot be imagined. We have 100 crore mobiles in the country. About 70 crore India in rural and urban areas are using prepaid cards to recharge their mobiles through coupon with 16 digit. We have 147 crore saving bank accounts (every house hold has one account).
 
 Prime Minister’s ‘Jan Dhan Yojana’ within 25 months has reached 25 crore accounts. It is a world record. Like in Karnataka, ‘Sakaala’, IT Seva Kendra’s were functioning at every state to provide government services digitally. In our country, we have 16 crore TVs, 6 crores DTHs and 10 crore digital set top boxes for cable TVs. People are learning to become digitalized. 
 
 Last year, out of 77 crore debit cards, 50 crore ATM cards used only to withdraw cash from ATM machines and 10 crore ATM cards were used for other transactions. Though they have the provision to swipe cards, people hardly used it. Now, they are learning to use it. On December 2, petrol bunks stopped accepting old notes. On that day, digital transaction was 20 % and now within a month and 5 days, it is more than 70 %. Vegetable vendors and food courts are using swipe machines, these changes are because of their digital determination.”
 
 People should understand more about USSD, Aadhaar-based enable payment system, UPL and Bharat Interface for Money (Bhim) app. Even people with GSM mobile can get the online transactions done. Practice is necessary to get the cashless magic. Indians are fast and smart.”
 
