UJJAIN: A groom belonging to Scheduled Caste had to tie his nuptial knot in police protection as upper caste people at a village near   town of Ujjain district blocked his marriage procession for riding a horse on Monday. 

 Police have booked around eight members of the upper caste community and provided security to the procession. The situation was tense at the village, but due to the deployment of police, peace prevailed.
 
 Barnagar police station in-charge Vivek Kanodia said “We have caught some people trying to block the marriage procession. Police were deployed at the spot in strength to prevent any flare-up.”
 
 The commotion started in Jafla village, 8 km from Barnagar, at the morning when marriage procession of Neeraj, son of Ranchod, was blocked by the upper caste people, who threatened to resort to violence, if the groom does not forgo the idea of riding the horse. They claimed that it was against the tradition of the village.
 
 Sensing trouble Neeraj and his sister, who is slated to get married on February 8, immediately informed about the incident to police following which administrative officials led by sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Avi Prasad reached the spot along with police force to ensure that the marriage procession passed through without trouble.
 
  The SDM held discussions with the villagers and informed them about laws that prevent discrimination. Thereafter, the police and the administrative officials escorted the procession and were welcomed as guests by the family.
 
 “We took Jalam Singh, Rai Singh and six others into custody and a case under relevant sections of SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act was registered against them,” Kanodia said.
 
 The SDM has asked the Barnagar police to ensure presence of personnel in the village and carry out patrolling for next three days to prevent any untoward incident.
 
 Barnagar tehsildar Sudeep Meena said, “The situation was peaceful in the village. Some miscreants tried to create a commotion, but were caught.” 
 
