MYSURU: University of Agricultural Sciences vice-chancellor H Shivanna has said that as the state is facing its worst drought in years, the state government has planned to provide incentives to   who adopt various methods to utilize less water for cultivation. 

 Speaking after inaugurating the centenary celebration of the   at Naganahalli on Friday, Shivanna said that   who adopt certain methods, such as, sub-surface irrigation – which involves irrigating crops by applying water from beneath the soil’s surface – or an aerobic rice cultivation system for water scares areas, or by even using sugarcane trash as manure instead of burning it after harvest, will get incentives from the government.
 
 “The government has taken this decision as the state is facing a severe drought for the past three years. KRS dam is reaching the dead storage mark during summer which is not even sufficient for supplying water for drinking purposes. The monsoon has also become unpredictable. There is severe drought situation in more than 15 districts in the state. 
 
 The release of water from dams to agricultural lands through canals is also failing, as 30 % of the water evaporates while around 30 % percolates into the ground. Only 30 % will reach the agriculture land. This is not benefiting farmers. Farmers have to adopt technologies to yield more crops using less water,” he said. 
 
 Centre not developed
 
 Shivanna said that the research center in Naganahalli, which is celebrating its centenary, has not developed as expected. “It is in a 45 acre land and we need at least 150 acres for taking up various research activities. Even though the center is promoting organic farming through training and workshops for farmers, the lack of water facilities and inadequate land at the center is hindering its progress,” he said. 
 
 Shivanna said that the university will submit a proposal to CM Siddaramaiah for the development of the center. 
 
 Talking about food production, Shivanna said that by 2030 the population of the country will reach 160 crore which is expected to overtake China. “Only through integrated farming, the country can meet the demand for the overgrowing population of the country,” he said. 
 
 Agriculture department commissioner G Satish released the centenary booklet. Agriculture university director  , research director   and others were present. 
 
 
