NASHIK: The   organised in the city on Friday was largely attended by the urban population, especially youths who enjoyed free Wi-Fi connection at the event.

 The   exhibition organized at Nashik was aimed at raising awareness about digital payment and transactions. The stalls were divided into financial, communication and commercial spaces of which the commercial spaces attracted more people as compared to others.
 
 Students from various schools and colleges also attended to the fair, co-hosted by NITI Ayog, banks and organizations.
 
 “Since digital is the way of life ahead for the new generation, we decided to bring our children for the mela to give them exposure to digital   and exchanges,” said a teacher.
 
 One of the senior officers of a nationalized bank pointed that since countries across the globe were adopting digital payments, India should not be left behind.
 
 “But the problem is that only local youths were seen around and not the rural populace. We expected them to be here to get accustomed to the process but that did not happen. The response from people of rural areas should have been better,” the officer said.
 
 The purpose of digi-dhan is equipping people with knowledge to use electronic payment appeared to be less effective given that the people who came to the stalls found most of them dealing in cash.
 
 “There are many people who turned up to buy things from us, but mostly offered cash. In fact, some government officers also transacted with us using cash instead of digital payments,” one of the stall owners said.
 
 Quotes:
 
 “I came here to learn and test my knowledge about digital transactions. I heard about how vegetables can be bought from major market players, but after coming here I found it easy to purchase the same from local vendors or farmers using digital payments
 
 — Abhishek Waje, DD Bytco
 
 “The fair was interesting. Our women self-help group runs a fair price shop in our village. Today, we were here to learn the Aadhaar-Enabled Payment System (AEPS).
 
 — Shobhana Dhikle, Mahila Bachat Gat
 
 At this age, we will learn about electronic payments. We have got the regular phones and are not accustomed to the new technology. However, we will try to learn it at the earliest
 
 — Baba Khairnar, Sr citizen
 
