NAGPUR: The   (MEDB) has decided to develop 107   at the cost of Rs 772 crores in next four-five years. 

 “The decision has been approved by the  , and on an   for each destination development is about Rs60 to 70 crores. Plans of these 107 destinations are ready,” said Mahip Gupta, managing director of MEDB.
 
 Talking to TOI on the eve of International Biodiversity Day, to be celebrated on Monday, Gupta said funds to develop these destinations will be tapped from several sources like district planning development committee (DPDC),   (VSDB), Maharashtra Tourism Development Corporation (MTDC) and other state schemes.
 
 The United Nations has proclaimed May 22 as the International Day for Biological Diversity (IDB) to commemorate the adoption of agreed text of the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) May 22, 1992. Interestingly, this year’s theme is ‘Sustainable Ecotourism’.
 
 Sustainable tourism or ecotourism means responsible travel to natural areas that conserves the environment, sustains the well-being of local people, and involves interpretation and education.
 
 Gupta said few sites in Maharashtra are to be developed as international level ecotourism destinations. Process of developing TATR as an international level tourism destination is already in progress.
 
 “Tendering process for appointment of a consultant of international repute is already in progress and single tender of Sollimar International is under consideration of the government,” he added.
 
 Some of the destinations that will be developed as natural sites include fossil park in Waddham in Sironcha and Glory of Allapalli. The destinations also include existing sanctuaries and national parks besides areas outside.
 
 Maharashtra ecotourism policy was declared on August 20, 2008. It speaks about core concepts like participation of local community, nature education, regulated tourism and uncompromised conservation. It also talks about creation of a separate ecotourism board for looking after the ecotourism works exclusively.
 
 Tourism in India generates around 6% of the GDP. Nagpur, which is gateway to tiger capital of India, has huge potential to attract foreign tourists. About 5 million foreign tourists visit India every year.
 
 “Even if 10% of these visit Nagpur and one tourist spends around $1,000 the total income generated in the region will be around $500 million. Vidarbha has a tremendous untapped potential for tourism,” said Gupta.
 
 MEDB was created on December 8, 2015 and its by-laws were approved on January 28, 2016. The board has to function as the central agency for the works related to ecotourism for the state.
 
