PANAJI:   at Goa has directed the mamlatdar of (Mormugao) to immediately initiate measures to seize any machinery used for   of mud in the   at Quelossim and also stop any further activity till the next date of hearing.

 While disposing off a miscellaneous civil application filed by an environmental action group Goa Foundation, the division bench comprising Justice F M Reis and Justice Nutan D Sardesai observed that no further reliefs sought by the petitioner need to be granted in view of assurances. 
 
 The issue pertains to the excavation and other activities, as alleged by the petitioner, at the mini India park at Quelossim under survey no 170/1 and 171/1, but the respondent has maintained that it is not being carried out in his property. He has also assured the court that no civil works are being done or will be done in the interim period.
 
 The bench further noted that photographs showing the dumping and excavation at the site alleging violations and produced by the petitioner have already been submitted to the advocate general, so that the government can initiate further action in the matter immediately. 
 
 The foundation had further stated that its interest was to ensure that no development activity is carried out in the CRZ area based on an alleged in-principle recommendation issued by investment promotion board (IPB). The main petition challenges the in-principle approval, stating that IPB is not entitled to make any recommendation in the CRZ and khazan area. 
 
 Any activity in the area would cause irreparable damage and the petitioner produced photographs of the work being done.
 
 Noting seriously that the activity on the bank of the river is causing blanket change in land use, the judges issued the directions to initiate action to stop the damage.
 
 The project promoter’s counsel objected to the grant of interim relief, stating that it would prejudice his position before GCZMA which has served him a show cause notice.
 
 The judges stated that their observations are tentative findings and the authority should take a decision on the merit of the issue.
 
 
