AMBERNATH: Two people died and five were injured after the   of a   failed and the vehicle rammed into an   in   on Wednesday afternoon. On impact, both the truck and the auto slipped into a nullah on the edge of the road. 

 Residents alleged that while   and local Shivaji Nagar   officers rushed to the spot, they did not have any equipment to rescue one of the victims who had fallen into the nullah. It was locals who jumped in and managed to pull him out but he was dead by then. 
 
 Auto driver Abdul Shaikh (32) alias Majeed died on the spot and the truck’s cleaner, F R Chavan (24), who was stuck below the vehicle in the nullah, lost his life too. The truck’s driver, Rajesh Mochi (34), and four others, including three passengers and one pedestrian, were injured and have been admitted to private hospitals in Ambernath.
 
 The mishap took place at 11am on Wednesday in Navre Nagar area. The concrete mixer truck’s brakes failed while it was coming down the slope at full speed and it hit the auto.
 
 Locals and passersby rushed to the spot and on seeing Chavan stuck below the truck, alerted the fire brigade as well as the police. Meanwhile, others rushed the injured to hospitals where doctors declared auto driver Shaikh dead on arrival.
 
 Satyajit Burman, an activist who carried Chavan to the hospital, said, “After we learned about the accident, we reached the spot and called up the fire brigade and the local police. But we were shocked to see that the firemen had not brought along equipment like a hydraulic machine or hammers to pull out the victim.” 
 
 Burman added, “When none of the seven policemen or the three firemen present entered the nullah, we took it upon ourselves to jump in to rescue Chavan.”
 
 Prakash Nair, another local resident who too witnessed the accident, said, “Ambernath civic body’s fire department did not have any equipment to deal with this kind of an accident. On what basis has the government given it the state’s best civic body award?”
 
 Citizens even complained about the police and firemen to senior Thane police officials as well the Thane collector. 
 
 Sunil Bhardwaj, deputy commissioner of police, Thane, said, “I have received a complaint from a few people and ordered an inquiry. Action will be taken on the basis of the findings.”
 
 Shivaji Nagar police said they have registered a case against the driver of the truck, Mochi, for poor maintenance of the vehicle, which led to the brake failure.
 
