BHOPAL: School education minister Vijay Shah has pulled out another of his out-of-the-box ideas —   for every student in government-run schools to lessen the schoolbag burden. 

 It’s not know if he factored in the fact that over 71% schools in MP don’t have electricty or the cost — a whopping Rs 3,900 crore if all 78 lakh government school students are given tabs costing Rs 5,000 each.
 
 When TOI contacted Shah, he confirmed that such a plan was on the cards. “It will make learning easy and reduce the schoolbag weight for students,” he said, adding: “This is just an idea that came to my mind as I am looking for a way out to reduce the weight of schoolbags, which has become a nuisance in school education and for little children.” 
 
 When asked about the budget that would probably cost hundreds of crores even if they go for the cheapest tab, he said that the department spends Rs 300 crores on publishing textbooks every year. “Why not spend those Rs 300 crore on digital tablets to provide better education to students? Books get damaged but by digitising them, we can keep them for ever. It would be beneficial in many ways though it may take over five years to be implemented,” he said, adding that he already has a plan and will begin with middle school.
 
 Blackboards and chalk will also be out, in that case. Sources in education department said that it vwas while reviewing departmental activities that the minister asked officials to work out a plan to put tabs in students’ hands. 
 
 “Shah told officials that in order to provide better education to students, we have to work on some new initiatives as other states are doing. The first step is to replace books with digital ones which will reduce the bag burden on students,” an official said.
 
 It may sound like a great idea but the ground reality says it won’t be easy. As many as 1,07,342 schools in Madhya Pradesh (71.2%) have no electricity although it’s one of the basic 10 norms mandated under Right to Education (RTE) Act. The initial findings of the latest pan-India survey (  or U-DISE) released by Government of India for 2015-16 session presents a sorry picture of MP’s education system. The survey covered 1,50,762 schools, having over 78 lakh students in all 51 districts.
 
 In 2014, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan had urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to take steps to reduce the load of schoolbags. The idea, if carried forward by the school education minister, is to replace textbooks by tablets that will be pre-loaded with school syllabus, textbooks and study material. They will be manufactured by e-learning companies.
 
