It started about a week after Donald  's inaugural speech, ­ the one that had stunned nations around the world wondering about “American Carnage“ and “America First“.

 It began with a Dutch news satire show, Zondag met Lubach, airing a short parody video that was an introduction to the Netherlands ­ but from the point of view of the newly elected president of the US. Presenter Arjen Lubach introduced the clip with the words: “He (Trump) had a clear message for the rest of the world: `I will screw you over big time'.“
 
 The video had a faux Trump providing the voiceover, and emphasised among other things, the battles the Dutch had with the Spanish (“Total scumbags, the Spanish, total losers“, an echo of Trump's position on Hispanic immigrants), and how you could grab the animals at Ponypark Slagharen “by the pony“.
 
 The video, posted three days after the inauguration, has racked up 21 million views. It opened the floodgates to a series of similar videos from around the world ­ first from European countries, before others jumped on to the “America First, Our Country Next“ bandwagon.
 
 Next up were the Swiss, saying that “We also love to treat our women badly . We didn't let them vote until 1971, in some places by 1990. We grab them by the civil rights.“
 
 The Germans followed up with their own video ­ which began by dissing the Dutch, “Bad people, the Dutch. Everything is orange in the Netherlands... Which we totally love ­ because you are orange too.“
 
 The Dutch and the Swiss talked about grabbing things by...other things, the Germans spoke of the abundance of beer at Oktoberfest and the equal abundance of the inevitable byproduct of its consumption.“There is pee everywhere.You'd love it. Great pee“.
 
 The trickle became a flood.Denmark touted its Little Mermaid statue: “Don't let the name fool you, okay? The Little Mermaid is actually pretty huge. Not little, but huge, okay?
 Like your hands are huge.“ The Italians emphasised the hand theme as well. “If you can't understand us, we'll use our hands.“
 
 Even the Russians had a video: “We don't have Mexicans. We don't have blacks. We're totally white.Our bears are white, our leopards are white, even our fish are white. You'll love it.“
 
 Now, there are videos from Croatia,  , Morocco, Mexico, Namibia...it's a regular   of countries wanting to be second. The India version uses the Kamasutra as an instruction manual for the “grab women by the...“
 
 part. And most of the voiceovers for these videos have been made by an American comedian named Shaun Streeter.However successful the great orange one is, Shaun Streeter and other Trump impersonators have at least four years of plenty in front of them.
 
