MUMBAI: A Mulund resident trying to book a cab to CST, using an aggregator service, got a shock on Tuesday when given an indicative fare of Rs 1,251. “The 33-km distance usually costs Rs 450-500 on Ola Mini, but on Tuesday it was more than double,” he said. Ola Micro, the cheapest option, was not available at all while UberGO fare for the same distance was Rs 717, again much higher than normal, he said. Aggregator cabs, which arrived with the twin USPs of ‘economy’ and ‘AC comfort,’ have commuters fuming who say they don’t get cabs or are charged ridiculously high fares.

 “I regularly travel by aggregator cabs from my residence in   to Kailash Complex, Vikhroli, and the normal fare should be Rs 290-310. But lately, fares are at Rs 480-510, which is frustrating,” said  , a commercial artist. Vaishali Pimple, a resident of Andheri East said, “Even in non-peak hours, we find fares for aggregator cabs higher than normal. There seems to be an almost perennial surge pricing.”
 
 Unavailability of cabs when you need them the most is another major grievance. Äs Dheeraj Gaur, a finance professional, pointed out, “Airport pick-up and drop facility is very good but the surge price is a bit frustrating. To avoid it, I went for a car pool for as low as Rs 49 per passenger. But to travel a distance which can be covered in 25 minutes, I had to wait for 45 minutes.”
 
 Navi Mumbai resident   said it was virtually difficult to find low-end cabs like Ola Micro (lowest base fare of Rs 6/km). Many commuters said Ola in January slashed fares (by 15% to 27%) and promised to be affordable. “But we find Ola fares too high on some routes,” said a group of office-goers from Fort area. 
 
 Aggregators said they simply function as a technology platform — providing private taxis in your vicinity based on demand. The availability of cabs depended on number of drivers who logged into the platform at any given time. “They are entrepreneurs and partner with us and have the freedom to work at their own pace/time. We have no control, except fining them for cancelling bookings/refusing to ply,” said an official from an aggregator. “If demand is high and cabs are few, then fares go up,” the official said. Uber sources said surge pricing was an “effective algorithm” to ensure more cabs on roads.
 
 While commuters wanted the government to ensure fares were “realistic”, a senior transport official said the issue was being looked into. “A panel has been set up to look into commuters’ grievances on surge pricing and a report will be submitted by June-end,” the official added.
 
