THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The   has decided to intensify measures against   at a time when water level at Peppara dam is dipping at an alarming rate. Against a level of 106.95 metre last year, the water level at Peppara dam is only 102 metres on Tuesday. The KWA hopes that the current level is enough to meet the needs of city for the next 75 days.

 The KWA has asked all residents to plug leaks in connection lines, sumps inside houses tank etc on war footing. The KWA has also asked the consumers to   them if they find the metre working after closing all taps and main valve.
 
 The KWA has issued an alert against use of drinking water for non-drinking purposes, illegal collection of water from KWA pipes, collection of water using hose, use of KWA water for construction purposes, misuse of public taps etc.
 
 KWA has also decided to intensify action against illegal connections. If collection of water from a disconnected line is reported, the user will have to pay fine of Rs 50,000 in addition to the water charge. The KWA will disconnect the domestic connections with six or more months’ water charges due. Non-domestic connections having water charges due for over two months would also be disconnected. Consumers who ignored KWA warning to replace faulty meter would face disconnection. Users who fail to get bills were asked to contact KWA.
 
 KWA executive engineer   said that loss of 1 drop from a leaking tap might look insignificant, but it will result in loss of 15 litres of water per day. “Recently, we noticed a consumption of 300 kilo litre in a domestic connection. It was due to a neglected leakage. They were actually wasting water that could be used by four families,” he said.
 
 The official said that the city could wade through the summer if they avoid wastage of water. “Though there wasn’t enough rains, there is enough water to survive for 75 days. Except in some higher pockets, no city area experience water shortage,” he said. Chandran said that 30% of water usage could be reduced if leaks were taken care of on time.
 
 
