NEW DELHI: Two years ago, a traffic cop posted at Golf Links was dismissed and arrested after a woman accused him of assaulting her for refusing to pay a “bribe“. Though reinstated later, the cop had no defence against a mobile video shot by a passerby .

 The Golf Links episode replayed itself on Sunday .But this time, the cop had a defence -“body cams“ fitted to cops' uniforms after that infamous incident.
 
 On Sunday , a mobile video of a couple alleging assault and rape threats against a traffic cop in Janakpuri went viral on Twitter. The camera attached to the cop's uniform, however, nailed the couple's lies, police said. The camera showed that the couple had assaulted the cops during an argument, in contrast to their claim on Twitter.
 
 Police officers said the body cam footage shows the woman and her husband attacking the policeman and tearing off his uniform during a scuffle, following which they were arrested on the spot.
 
  west   said the body cam recording would be produced as evidence against the couple.
 
 “We have invoked various sections based on the evidence we collected from the ground,“ said Kumar. It was made mandatory for traffic cops to have body cameras focusing on violators who get into heated exchanges with cops, after that incident at Golf Links Road in 2015.
 
 Sunday's incident was reported around 12.30pm when traffic constable   had stopped a three-wheeler goods carrier for checking near the Janakpuri district centre. The driver Bablu got into an argument with the cops when they pointed out discrepancies in his papers and decided to impound his vehicle.
 
 The driver, Bablu allegedly called his friends and his wife, Shabnam, to reason it out with the cops. The argument continued for some time during which   tried to hold one of the policemen by his collar. A scuffle ensued during which Bablu attacked the constable. A few other traffic cops at the spot managed to free Vicky and inform the PCR.
 
 While the scuffle, one of Bablu's friends,  , shot a video and posted it on social media, claiming it to be a brutality by the cops. A team from the Janakpuri police was called and the couple was handed over to them. In the mobile phone grab, the woman is seen showing the torn t-shirt of her husband. However while scanning through the body cam footages, cops found Bablu and Shabnam arguing with policemen and suddenly attacking Vicky .
 
 Police officers say Bablu, a resident of Naraina, had tried to flee after being flagged by the cops. They were booked under sections of preventing a public servant from conduction his duties under 353 IPC and assaulting a public servant.
 
 Bablu and Shabnam were sent to judicial custody . Police say they would also inquire into the allegations by the couple. The three-wheeler has been seized.
 
