PUNE: Vehicular movement was partially disrupted on the   yet again after a   on its side at 8.30am about 100m before Amrutanjan bridge on Tuesday morning. 

 Traffic was disrupted for nearly two hours on Saturday morning after oil leaked from two tankers and spilled on the road in the   section also near the same bridge.
 
 No one was injured in Tuesday’s accident but the fallen container truck blocked all the three lanes of the Mumbai corridor at the spot leading to a traffic jam for half an hour. The   (HSP) directed vehicles heading towards Mumbai to use the Khandala village route.
 
 Officers from Highway Safety Patrol, Pune, said a crane was near Baur ghat and arrived quickly at the spot when summoned. It took 30 minutes to shift the container truck to the left lane of the expressway. Vehicular movement was restored at 9am, an officer added.
 
 The container truck was heading towards Mumbai at high speed when its driver lost control over the wheel. A senior HSP officer told TOI that the driver was speeding. 
 
 It is suspected that the driver had engaged the vehicle in the neutral gear on the slope to save diesel. He attempted to apply the brakes to take a sharp turn under the bridge but lost control and it fell on its side.
 
 According to HSP, vehicles either upend themselves or fall on their sides in the   section near Amrutanjan bridge due to the slope and overloaded heavy vehicles break down while climbing the ghat section because their engines heat up.
 
 Only two lanes are free in each corridor at this spot though the entire expressway has three lanes in each of the two corridors. Inexperienced drivers tend to drive at the same speed without any thought to the slope or the gradient, they added.
 
 Accidents also take place under the Amrutanjan bridge when drivers criss-cross and wheel in and out of lanes. 
 
 Trucks and buses heading towards Mumbai attempt to take a right turn while approaching the spot under the bridge which in the past has resulted in minor accidents. 
 
 Similarly, heavy vehicles heading towards Pune, attempt to go to the extreme left at a gradual speed while taking a right turn under the bridge.
 
 Highway safety patrol authorities said such choke-ups are regular at least once a week at this spot and accidents take place after drivers fail to control their vehicles.
 
 There are several accident-prone spots on the expressway. Of these, the worst are near Amrutanjan bridge, inside Khandala tunnel, the exit towards Khandala , Ozarde bridge, Somatne phata and Kiwale bridge. Highway officials have often said that most incidents occur due to rash driving, overspeeding, faults in the design of some road sections, gaps in the medians and tyre bursts. There is a seven metre wide median but there are no barriers at many places.
 
 
