Nagpur: With the last date for industries to apply for getting no objection certificate (NOC) from Central Ground Water Authority (CGWA) approaching fast, a special seminar was organized by a joint action committee comprising Vidarbha Industries Association, MIDC Industries Association and Butibori Manufacturers Association at Udyog Bhavan on Monday to discuss the challenges they face. 

 The western zone bench of the National Green Tribunal, Pune, has set May 31 deadline for industries to apply for NOC and give details whether they use ground water or not. The Pune bench had in its January 2016 order directed Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) and CGWA to issue direction under environmental laws for closure of erring industries. 
 
 CGWA, New Delhi, had in November 2015 also published guidelines, making it mandatory for all industries to submit a detailed report about extraction and use of ground water with their applications. 
 
 D Subba Rao, regional director of Central Ground Water Board, Nagpur, AP Dharmadhikari, joint director of industries, Nagpur, Budrata Das, director of Maharashtra Remote Sensing Application Centre and Rajendra Deshkar, deputy director of Groundwater Surveys and Development Agency (GSDA), were present.
 
 Dharmadhikari said he will give recommendations to the state government based on the outcome of today’s discussion. According to Dharmadhikari, one of the main requirements for the application process is a hydrogeological survey map showing locations of all dug out wells and water bodies within five kilometre radius of an industrial unit. 
 
 However, industries may find it difficult to procure the map as GSDA has not received directions from the government to issue survey maps exclusively for this purpose. Therefore, industries can approach private geological survey firms for getting such maps, said Dharmadhikari.
 
 Deskhar assured that GSDA will be able to provide survey maps to the industries even as Dharmadhikari was concerned whether the agency would be able to cater to all industries in the state. 
 
 Senior hydrogeologist of CGWB Rahul Shende said any industrial unit which requires 500 cubic meters of ground water per day or is built in an area of more than two hectare must apply for NOC.
 
 
