Forty-five years ago, the Club of Rome, an organisation of individuals who share a common concern for the future of humanity, published a study, The Limits to Growth, which initiated a debate about the impact of unlimited growth in population and demand for goods in a world with finite resources. The report was based on a study by researchers at the   who used a computer model to track the world’s economy and environment.
 
  Focusing on industrialisation, population, food, use of resources, pollution and modelled data up to 1970, they developed a range of scenarios up to 2100, taking into account steps taken to address environmental and resource issues. Without serious action, the model predicted “overshoot and collapse” before 2070. The Limits to Growth generated controversy. Not because the questions it raised about the problems of population control, environmental degradation, and resource exhaustion were unimportant, but because of its methodology: the reliance on computer models and its “doomsday” conclusions.
  
  Averting “overshoot and crash” scenario, the study noted would require policies and investments in technology to alter the course. Essentially this 1970s study viewed economic growth as inimical to environmental protection and resource conservation. In the 1970s, this would mean foreclosing the path to economic growth and consigning billions to poverty forever The social consensus was in favour of economic growth.
  
  Beginning in the late 1980s, this gave rise to the concept of sustainable development. This approach argued that economic growth can be compatible with environmental protection and resource conservation. The   was also beginning to focus on climate change.
  
  “For a long time, the discussion on environment focused on climate change. It was as if there is only one environment brain cell. Now there is a growing realisation that climate change is important, but the resource crisis is becoming important as well,” said  , director for  , environment directorate-general, European Commission. The focus on climate change and sustainable development led to a re-engagement on the question of ensuring economic growth with the least impact on the environment. The resulting concept of resource efficiency calls for the use of natural resources in a sustainable manner and minimising impact on the environment. This approach does not suggest limiting growth but provides a pathway to promote production using fewer natural resources. The Sustainable Development Goals adopted by all countries in 2015 recognise the need to address this issue, hence the focus on resource efficiency.
  
  This recognition received a political boost at the   in   in early July, when world leaders agreed on initiating a G20 Resource Efficiency Dialogue. The dialogue will provide an opportunity to exchange good practices and national experiences to improve the efficiency and sustainability of natural resource use and to promote sustainable consumption and production patterns. Recognising its importance, the government established the Indian Resource Panel in 2015 as an advisory body under the ministry of environment, forest and climate change. Supported through Indo-German bilateral cooperation, the panel studied resource-related issues facing India and advised the government on a comprehensive strategy.
  
  The panel’s work forms the basis of a strategy paper prepared by the government think tank,  , for a policy approach on resource efficiency. For developing countries like India, resource efficiency is particularly relevant. The rapid transformation of its economy, its growing population, increased pace of urbanisation, improved incomes and a growing middle class, and the government’s plans for massive industrial push, each of these indicates growing demand for resources. In this context, the idea of using resources in a more efficient manner is the way forward. India’s per capita consumption of material, 4.2 tonnes, is low—less than half the global average. But given its larger population, India’s total resource consumption is quite high.
  
  India is now the third-largest consumer of materials and consumption is expected to increase rapidly, with the majority of the people living in urban centres by 2050. The changing face of the Indian economy is another factor. Though agriculture continues to be the dominant employer, the share of industry and services in employment and GDP is rising. These are resource-intensive sectors, and the rise in disposable incomes has led to higher consumption patterns. India’s material requirements are projected to be 15 billion tonnes by 2030 and 25 billion tonnes by 2050.
  
  
 
  
  The bulk of the increase is expected in fossil fuel, metals and minerals consumption, according to the Indian Resource Panel. India and the European Union have agreed to work together over the next three years to adapt international standards and best practices in business and foster the efficient and sustainable use of natural resources. This partnership will focus on drawing up action plans for resource efficiency. The partnership will focus on four areas—mobility, particularly electric and hybrid vehicles; building and construction; renewable energy, especially photovoltaics; and waste, with a focus on plastics, packaging and e-waste. Finally, it hopes to give impetus to evidence-based policy advice that will feed into the government’s broader resource efficiency strategy. 
