Among the many allegations which have come up against Dileep now on social media included that of Kalabhavan Shajohn, who was reported to have said that he was denied the opportunity of essaying the role of gangster Vasu in the film Kunjikkoonan by Dileep. However,   soon took to his social networking page asking people not to make him a tool to attack the actor. 

  Shajohn confirms to Kochi Times that the rumours are totally baseless. “It was being circulated that I was ousted from the film by Dileepettan, and I had walked off the sets in tears. But nothing of the sort happened. I had been to the auditions for the film and even gave a look test. After two days, the director informed me that they have finalised actor Saikumar for the role. There were no questions asked, as I thought the role was not destined for me.”
 
  And Shajohn has no complaints, and says that while watching the movie later, he felt that the role was tailor-made for Saikumar. “It’s good I wasn’t part of the film,” he says, adding that Dileep had in fact only helped him. “Dileep had even recommended my name for a few roles in films such as Runway and Mayamohini. I got an opportunity to be part of a bunch of his movies, which have been blockbusters. 
 
 In the case of our recent film Ramaleela too, he had rung me up and asked if I was interested in doing a really good role.” 
  Dileep starrer My Boss saw an outstanding performance by Shajohn, and the actor says there were many instances where the two of them went beyond the script in their combination scenes. “His character was that of a confused person, and mine had scope for more humour. So he used to help me improve my comic timing, sitting alongside the director and the cameraman.”
 
  While repeating that he has not had any painful experiences from Dileep, Shajohn says that the opinions of a lot of people from the industry have turned, with regard to DIleep. “When a person is in a peak of success, nothing and no one will be able to harm him. However, if the same person has a tragic fall, everyone, including people who have no ties with him, start talking bad about him.” 
 
  He concludes by saying that he is neither in support of or against Dileep, and justice must prevail, no matter who is guilty.
 
