Chandigarh: In the Salman Khan-starrer movie Sultan, the protagonist is shown overcoming personal loss and societal ignominy to resurrect his career. Once an Olympic gold-medallist, Sultan gives up wrestling after going through personal trauma. He later makes a comeback inside the MMA (Mixed Martial Arts) ring, wins a championship and gains respect of his near and dear ones.

 Former   captain Jagdeep Singh Bains has a similar life story. In the 2010 Guangzhou Asian Games, Bains was among the top three scorers of the marquee championship, besides being the leader of the Indian team.
 
 His career was on the rise and he was destined to achieve further glory. But, then misfortune struck Bains. One after the other. First, in 2011, he suffered a career-threatening back injury that had him bed-ridden for nearly four years. The following year he was left jobless as the Punjab Police dismissed him from service. In 2015, the National Institute of Sports (NIS) rejected his bid to complete a coaching course. 
 
 If this was not enough the news of his father suffering from blood cancer totally broke him. 
 
 “It was a terrible time for me and my family. Four years, I was on the bed and he (Bains’ father) was looking after me and now the roles have reversed,” Bains tells TOI.
 
 “That’s when I decided to go back to the sport I love the most. I hadn’t played   since early 2011, and it was very difficult to make a comeback. But I knew I had a good three to four years left in me,” reminisces Bains.
 
 First, he improved his fitness and then managed to get a deal with Mumbai Challengers in the   Pro League. He has also done well for the franchisee. It was perfect redemption for Bains. 
 
 Early life
 
 Bains hails from Sri Ganganagar in Rajasthan. Sports was in his genes. Both father Gurjant Singh and uncle Ripudaman Singh Aulakh were athletics coaches. In fact, his uncle is a Dronacharya awardee.
 
 Initially, Bains was a 110m hurdle sprinter. He won a few medals at the district level too, but his uncle suggested his father that he should play basketball because of his height and agility.
 
 “The first time that I held the basketball orb in my hand was at the age of 18. So one can call me a late starter. But within a year I donned the national team jersey,” expresses Bains.
 
 “In my entire basketball career, my most memorable moment would be the 2010 Asian Games. I played my best and was the third best scorer,” he adds.
 
 No reward for toil
 
 Bains gave his all to Punjab, but seldom got anything in return from the state. 
 
 “I devoted everything to Punjab. I played for them, rejected so many better opportunities from ONGC, Raliways, Indian Overseas Bank etc. I refused all those offers because my loyalty was with Punjab. But, see how they treated me in the end. I was dismissed from service. It (removal from Punjab Police) obviously hurts, I tried to get answers from the authorities, but to no avail,” Bains reflects.
 
 “In 2015, when everything was looking dim for me, I decided to quit the game and wanted to be a coach. So, I went on to knock the doors of NIS and applied for a coaching job; but, there they (NIS authorities) told me I am unfit and should try next time. I was left amused and still can’t believe that what it was to do with my fitness.
 
 “I do feel let down by the system (in Punjab). I regret refusing ONGC and Railways, but there is nothing I can do about it now. Those were massive mistakes. Everyone who played with me are well-off,” he adds with a sense of bitterness.
 
 The Punjab government and the Union sports ministry were nowhere during his period of injury.
 
 “I lost my four years because of back injury. It was a big setback for me, as I got injured when I was at my peak. There was no professional physiotherapist provided to me, neither by the Punjab government nor by the Union sports ministry. Authorities need to understand that an injury to a sportsperson and injury to a common man aren’t similar. There was no accountability towards me,” Bains states.
 
 State of basketball in India
 
 Bains feels this is Indian basketball’s golden generation. “With players like Satnam Singh, Amjyot Gill, Amritpal Singh and Vishesh Bhirguvanshi, there is no dearth of talent. They have also honed their skills by playing in leagues outside India,” he reflects.
 
 So what can be done to further improve the state of the sport?
 
 “There is a dire need of competitive basketball leagues in India. You can’t just train blindly, but you need to also get some game time under your belt. To compete with the best in the world, we need to develop that culture and for that we need proper infrastructure.
 
 “A pair of basketball shoes cost Rs 12,000. The size that’s required for basketball players is not available in India. This is a basic thing that a cager needs. Besides, there is a long list; but, at least we should start with the basics,” specifies Bains.
 
 “It is not that infrastructure has not improved over the period of time, but the pace is very slow. We need proper investment, otherwise we’ll lag behind in comparison to other countries. 
 
 “The senior players also need to step up. They must give it back to the game, so that we can find the next Satnam, Amritpal or Amjyot. I would, myself, love to give it back to this beautiful game by becoming a coach in the coming years,” he adds.
 
 
