THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The   clarifying that bar hotels and   would also come under its order to close down   within 500 metres of highways would be a major blow to the state. 

 Preliminary estimates of the excise department shows that 1,956 liquor outlets including Bevco and Consumerfed outlets, bar hotels, clubs, beer and wine parlours and toddy shops will have to be relocated in the wake of the court order. The move is likely to cause at least 25% drop in the revenue from liquor sales and license fee. 
 
 According to latest figures of the excise department, the state government will have to relocate 11 FL-3 licensees (bar hotels), 586 FL-11 licensees (beer and wine parlours), 207 FL-1 licensees (Bevco and Consumerfed outlets), 18 clubs and 1,132 toddy shops. 
 
 This will cause a revenue loss of Rs 28.67 crore in terms of the license fee alone, as the state charges Rs 4 lakh as license fee for beer and wine parlours, Rs 23 lakh for license fee for bar hotels and Rs 15 lakh for liquor license for clubs. According to excise department sources, the impact of the court order will also hit the sales.
 
  "The sales would be reduced by 25% despite relocation of the outlets," excise department sources said. The gross sales for 2016-17 is expected to cross Rs 12,000 crore, which is likely to come down in the next financial year. 
 
 At the same time, the government is likely consider the applications that are pending before it for beer and wine parlours and five star bar hotels, that will meet the distance regulations set by the court. 
 
 Barring the decision not to close down the 10% beverages corporation outlets every year that was initiated by the previous   government, the Left government had not altered the Abkari policy of the previous government. Though there were initial talks that the government will go ahead with reopening the four-star bar hotels, no concrete decision has been taken yet. 
 
 The government had decided not to shift the bar hotels and beer and wine parlours along the national and state highways on the basis of Supreme Court order, after accepting a legal advice from attorney general  , that the court's order was not binding in the case of bar hotels. It also decided to extend the licences of bar hotels and beer and wine parlours for another year. With the latest court order, the government's move to extent the licences has come to a grinding halt. 
 
 
