BIRBHUM:  , 15, has never received an appreciation for anything she did in her life. “Now, a mere   with the ball earn me pats and cheers from my coach,   and a handful of villagers around. It gives me a high,” says the lanky girl decked up in her one-week-old blue jersey. Jhuma and her 80-odd friends from nearby villages are oozing confidence as they have found a  

 Like any remote tribal hamlet in India, Rajnagar block, 40km off Birbhum’s  , had witnessed their girls falling prey to human trafficking, early marriage and other forms of exploitation. Call it a coincidence, over 11 tribal villages of Rajnagar and around 5,000 locals are pinning hopes on a   dream nurtured by a 57-year-old Kolkata-born engineer based in the US.
 
 Shib Shankar Dasgupta, a JU chemical engineering graduate who had his own venture DevKalpana Technologies in New York, has taken a break from his business to do something for the rural women. “Inspired by a movie named Invictus, where President Nelson Mandela unites his people by supporting a rugby team in their bid to win the 1995 Rugby World Cup, I started believing that early marriages and human trafficking of girls in India can also be tackled through football,” Dasgupta, executive director of Shreeja Women’s Sports Academy, tells TOI from New York.
 
 One set of jersey is already in and the consignment of boot-socks-gears are yet to arrive. But there is no stopping of bare-footed Rajnagar girls. None of them makes a minute’s delay to hit the field for morning practice at the picturesque ground beneath the hillocks bordering Jharkhand. Forget Messi or Ronaldo, the girls of Rajnagar haven’t even heard of Mohan Bagan or East Bengal.
 
 “But the love for the game runs in our blood. We have grown up watching our father, uncles and brothers playing the beautiful game,” says Chandana Marandi of Madarpur village. Chandana feels that academy has them take pride in sharing things — from football or sports gear — among siblings and friends.
 
 Jibak Herbs Welfare Society set up by a retired school teacher, Tapan Roy, is helping Shreeja as a local coordinator. “We appointed five social representatives who tapped as many as 50 schools to explain the villagers about the project. We have always sought a consent from the parents and neighbourhood,” says Roy. So far, around 80 girls have enrolled their names.
 
 If not studying, girls of Rajnagar normally engage themselves in household work or manufacturing Sal-leave lunch plates. “For stitching 40 Sal-leave plates, a meagre Rs 6 is paid by the machine owners,” adds Roy.
 
 Tapas Roy, a physical education teacher of nearby Jaypur High School, have already started coaching the girls while new coaches from Kolkata would join him for special camps soon.
 
 The initial funding for the project is being accrued from Dasgupta’s personal savings while some of his professional friends are pitching in with financial aid. “We plan to run the project through crowd-sourcing mainly,” adds Dasgupta. Ball For all, a US organization has decided to send 50 soccer balls to Shreeja girls.
 
 Besides football, Shreeja claims to look after the girls’ health, education as well. “Special tutorial on English, science, mathematics, computer and personality development are also on the cards,” signs off Dasgupta.
 
 The Rajnagar girls know well that Shreeja has offered them a big ground to play, they just need to dribble past the hurdles.
 
 
