NEW DELHI: A 38-year-old   while he was trying to stop two   from escaping a police trap in east Delhi’s   on Sunday . The accused, Chaman (24) and Kadeem (32), were arrested after a short chase and 10 country-made pistols were found on them. 

 The police laid the trap near Karkari Mor after getting a tip-off that two men associated with an illegal firearms distribution racket in Uttar Pradesh would come to the area to hand over weapons. 
 
 Around 11.45pm, the police noticed two people coming towards Nala Road from the Karkari Mor flyover side on a black Pulsar bike. As soon as the informer identified the men, cops signalled them to stop. 
 
 However, they took a U-turn and started driving back. The policemen, who were on bikes and cars, started to follow them, while some others joined them on foot.
 
 While Chaman was driving the bike, Kadeem was riding pillion and kept an eye on the chasing cops. Soon SI Ram Niranjan Pathak managed to narrow the distance. As the road ahead was congested, Chaman asked Kadeem to start firing at every direction. 
 
 Kadeem’s first shot hit the SI on the shoulder while other cops had a narrow escape when he fired again. Pathak, however, didn’t stop chasing them despite the injury. He went ahead and tried to pull the pillion off the motorcycle, making Chaman lose balance. As the bike tumbled on one side, Chaman tried to flee, but he was caught by other policemen. Pathak was taken to a hospital and was discharged after treatment. 
 
 A case under Sections 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 307 (attempt to murder) and 34 (common intention) of IPC and under Arms Act has been registered at the Jagatpuri police station.
 
 Sources said the 10 country-made pistols recovered from Kadeem’s bag were to be delivered in different parts of the city. The police are trying to find out if anyone else was part of this arms distribution racket. 
 
 
