NEW DELHI: Looking back at Gujarat Lions’ performance during their debut   in 2016, the thing that went against the Intex-owned team was probably the lack of momentum heading in to the business end of the tournament. While they topped the table during the league stages owning to a stellar start that saw them win six out of their first seven games, Lions went on to lose seven of their last nine games, including Qualifier 1 and 2 to Royal Challengers Bangalore and eventual winners Sunrisers Hyderabad, respectively.

 Many were surprised by the team’s early momentum but that cannot be attributed to beginner’s luck at all. Smart buys at the auction and smart strategies during the tournament underpinned the team’s success. Gujarat mirrored Rajasthan Royals in many ways and the results were there to be seen.
 
 Heading in to their second season, which could be their last, Lions would be aiming to overcome the business end jitters and go the distance this time around. Owner Keshav Bansal is not worried about the fact this could be his team’s final appearance, on the contrary, he has stated that the team’s only objective is win the title. And they have had a good start to that objective, once again starting from this year’s auction. They bought the maximum number of players (11) among the eight franchises at the 2017 IPL players' auction in Bengaluru, spending only Rs 3.85 crore, the lowest among other teams.
 
 
 
 
 More than Raina’s batting form last year – he was the highest scorer for the team with 399 runs in 15 matches – it was his captaincy that was appreciated. However, a lot has changed for the middle-order batsman in the last one year. He is without a BCCI contract now and in the last 17 months, Raina has featured in only three international games for India – in T20I series against England. By his own admission, his daughter’s ill-health has been the prime reason for he UP batsman missing out on playing time. He has not played any competitive cricket for the last two month now and it will be his form and mindset heading in to   that would be cause of worry for the Lions. But he will take heart from the fact that IPL is where Raina is at his best. He is the second highest run-getter in the tournament’s history and he would be eying this year’s IPL to make a statement and prove his doubters wrong.
 
 
 
 
 At the age of 42, Hodge still can walk into any IPL team as a pure batsman as was evidence with this performance in the BBL 2017 and in his first stint as coach, for the Lions in 2016, Hodge did an admirable job and there is no reason to expect anything less from the Victorian this year as well.
 
 
 : Suresh Raina (capt), Ravindra Jadeja, James Faulkner, Brendon McCullum, Dwayne Bravo, Aaron Finch, Dwayne Smith, Dinesh Karthik (wk), Dhawal Kulkarni, Praveen Kumar, Andrew Tye, Ishan Kishan (wk), Pradeep Sangwan, Shivil Kaushik, Shadab Jakati, Jaydev Shah. Jason Roy, Basil Thampi, Manpreet Gony, Shubham Agarwal, Tejas Singh Baroka, Chirag Suri, Pratham Singh, Shelley Shaurya.
 
 
 : 1 Jason Roy, 2 Brendon McCullum, 3 Suresh Raina (capt), 4 Dinesh Karthik (wk), 5 Dwayne Bravo, 6 Ishan Kishan, 7 James Faulkner, 8 Shadab Jakati, 9 Dhawal Kulkarni, 10 Shivil Kaushik, 11 Praveen Kumar
 
 
 : Apart from the obvious choices - Raina and Ravindra Jadeja - going by what Jason Roy has done in the last year or so, he is probably one of the biggest impact players in this year’s edition across all teams. And he earns this status in a team that also has Brendon McCullum. With a career T20 strike-rate of 144.49, and four centuries, the 26-year-old is capable of delivering Gujarat some power-packed starts. Another player that would be instrumental in the Lions campaign will be India discard Dinesh Karthik who scored 607 runs at 86.71 in the 2017 Vijay Hazare Trophy and lead Tamil Nadu to the Deodhar Trophy with 247 runs in three matches at 82.33. However, they will miss the services of Jadeja early on, who have been advised at least two weeks of rest after the long home season. 
 
 
 : Lost both Qualifier 1 and 2 to bow out of the competition after topping the charts in league stages
 
 
 : Lions seemed to be better placed when it comes injuries in comparison to other teams and with in-form players in the squad; a repeat of last year is real possibility. However, tackling the knockouts would be is different ball-game all together. The only vulnerability for Lions for now seems to be their captain’s Raina’s mindset, but if he is able to overcome his personal struggles, this is a team that can go the distance.
 
 
 : April 7 KKR (home); April 9 v SRH (away); April 14 v RPS (home); April 16 v MI (away); April 18 v RCB (home); April 21 v KKR (away); April 23 v KXIP (home); April 27 v RCB (away); April 29 v MI (home); May 1 v RPS (away); May 4 v DD (away); May 7 v KXIP (away); May 10 v DD (home); May 13 v SRH (home).
 
 
