BHOPAL: A   after a mobile phone he was playing a game on exploded in   district late Tuesday night. This is the second incident in less than a fortnight’s time. In a similar incident on March 21, a kid lost one of his fingers after a mobile battery exploded in his hand in   district. 

 The fresh incident took place at Rawa village in Betul district.  , 15, was playing the game on his mobile phone which was on charge. The phone set heated up and before he could realise, there was an explosion, leading to injuries in his abdomen. 
 
 The kid was rushed to Sanjeevani Hospital in Betul around 10 pm and is undergoing treatment at the hospital. The doctors, treating the child, informed the teenager is out of danger. The teenager sustained one cm deep wound, covering 4 cm area. 
 
 Bhavesh, a student of Class 9, started playing the game on phone after completing studies as his exams were on, sources said. Soon, the phone exploded. 
 
 “The child had told me that he was just playing the game on his mobile phone and before he could understand anything, there was a blast. The injuries could be dangerous if the wound was little more deeper. It had injured upper muscle layer of the abdomen,” surgeon Dr Uday Chakotia, who is treating the patient at the hospital, told TOI.
 
 It is not an isolated incident in the state. At least 6 such cases were reported in a couple of years. In one such case, a mobile phone exploded in trousers of a daily wager of Panna Tiger Reserve, sources said. 
 
 SIMILAR INCIDENTS
 
 March 21, 2017: A 14-year-old boy lost one of his fingers after mobile battery exploded in his hand in Singrauli dist
 
 March 25 2016: A 10-year-old boy was on Saturday killed after he sustained severe burns when his mobile phone’s battery exploded at a village in Sehore dist
 
 Oct 30, 2015: A mobile phone exploded in pants of an employee of Panna Tiger Reserve (PTR) while he was in the office
 
 Oct 26, 2015: A 7-year-old boy lost all fingers on his right hand after a mobile phone exploded in his hand in Rajgarh dist
 
 May 5, 2015: Hands of a 12-year-old boy were severely damaged after a mobile phone exploded in Satna dist
 
 May 24, 2013: A 22-year-old youth in Seoni district was seriously injured and rushed to Nagpur for treatment after a mobile phone he was using as a torch, holding it in his mouth, exploded. 
 
