PATNA: Even after more than two years, the state   has not yet given its nod to   (MU) to start postgraduate (PG) teaching in its 11 constituent colleges. The   of the university begins in July every year. The   is based on semester system.

 According to an   official, the university, at its academic council meeting on April 12, 2015, had approved the proposals of its 11 constituent colleges to start PG teaching after proper inspection of their faculty strength, infrastructure, library and classroom facilities, he said.
 
 According to sources, the MU Syndicate and Senate had approved the proposal to start PG teaching in Oriental College (Patna City), Jagjiwan College (Gaya), S Sinha College (Aurangabad), G J College (Bihta), ANS College (Barh), Nalanda College (Biharsharif), K L S College (Nawada), College of Commerce, Arts and Science (Patna) and B D College (Patna).
 
 The university took this decision in the light of provisions under   of 1976. The proposal was thus sent to the director, state higher education department, with the copy of the university approval and names of the colleges on June 24, 2015 vide letter number X-Dev/ 1556/14/187/15 for the final approval, but the department has not taken any decision so far, MU sources said.
 
 According to sources, the university had approved PG teaching in Philosophy, Political Science, English, Pali, Sanskrit, Economics, Sociology, Hindi, Psychology, Ancient History, Geography, Chemistry, Physics and Zoology subjects in B D College, sources said, adding that the principal secretary of higher education department recently made a query and the file is pending with the state education department. 
 
 The National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) peer team, which had visited B D College in 2014 for its accreditation, had strongly recommended for PG teaching in the college in these subjects on the basis of the faculty strength and better infrastructure facilities, sources said.
 
 Meanwhile, inordinate delay in getting a nod from the state government would hamper the process to start PG teaching in the colleges from the current academic session. Most of these colleges are already imparting PG teaching in various subjects, sources said.
 
 Sources in education department said there are some queries which were raised by the principal secretary last week and the secretary and director have to reply. “Once the principal secretary is satisfied, the university will be informed,” said an official source. 
 
