PATNA: As part of the drive of Niti Aayog to promote digital or cashless economy through the use of digital mode of transactions across the country, the state information technology (IT) department will organise a one-day ‘Digi Dhan Mela’ here on Sunday. National cricketer from Jharkhand Saurav Tiwari will also be present at the fair. 

 State IT department secretary Rahul Singh said at the fair, which will be held at Adhiveshan Bhawan here, the participants and visitors would be informed about the advantages of the use of cashless economy and the method to switch to the digital mode of cash transactions.
 
 Representatives of banks, common service centres, government trading agencies (like Comfed), telecom companies, Unique Identification Authority of India, fertiliser companies and private digital payment service providers would participate in the fair. They would explain to consumers and merchants the mechanism and method to adopt and use the mode of digital payment, IT department secretary added. There would be 28 stalls at the fair. 
 
 The Digi Dhan Mela would be marked by a one-hour function from 3.30 pm, when Tiwari and two Union ministers Radha Mohan Singh and Jayant Sinha would be special guests, while the chief guest would be the state IT minister Ashok Choudhary. A brief documentary on the use of digital cash transaction would also be shown.
 
 A lottery under two schemes – Lucky Grahak Yojana for consumers and Digi Dhan Vyapar Yojana for merchants – would be drawn on the occasion “to nudge people towards significantly higher usage of digital transactions through the offer of incentives,” IT secretary said, adding that the names of winners of the two schemes would be announced during the function. Only the transactions that take place through RuPay cards, USSD, UPI and AEPS would be eligible for the scheme.
 
 The IT secretary said besides the Digi Dhan Mela function, two other such functions would be organised at Darbhanga in February and at Gaya in March.
 
 
