MUMBAI: It was the worst defeat in the   for the Sharad Pawar-led Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) too. It won only nine of the 174 seats it contested, as against 13 it had won in the 2012 election. Across the state too, NCP's performance in the municipal corporation and zilla parishad elections was dismal. Pawar had stated that NCP's future was bleak in the BMC polls, since   will emerge as the single largest party.

 Reacting to the outcome of the civic and zilla parishad polls, NCP   member and Pawar's daughter, Supriya Sule, said it was time for self-introspection and corrective measures had to be taken to improve the party's performance. “It's not an endgame for NCP, we will improve our performance," Sule said.
 
 Significantly, a few weeks ago, Ajit Pawar had admitted that NCP failed to provide a better leadership in Mumbai. “We had developed a leadership in Pune, Thane and several other cities across the state but we were unable to do so in Mumbai," he had said.
 
 Ever since the election process for BMC began, there was a debate on whether there will be a Congress-NCP alliance, but as there was a delay, Mumbai NCP president Sachin Ahir announced the first list; so there was no scope for negotiations on a seat-sharing for mula.
 
 Like Congress, NCP's downfall began during the Lok Sabha polls in 2014. It had won only four seats, while in subsequent assembly polls too, it won 41. It was NCP's worst performance. All along, NCP was at the receiving end in Mumbai due to charges of corruption against its senior leaders.Chhagan Bhujbal has been in jail following cases against him by the   (ACB) and Enforcement Directorate. Ajit Pawar and Sunil Tatkare too are under ACB's scanner for largescale irregularities in irrigation projects, so the party kept them out of campaigning for the BMC polls.
 
  launched the BMC poll campaign but it had no impact. “NCP never took the elections seriously. In fact, there was a tacit understanding between Congress and NCP to support Sena. It was for the first time BJP successfully challenged the Sena," a senior NCP leader said.
 
