PUNE: The relatives of three victims of the same family wanted to donate their eyes to give vision to six visually impaired persons. But the gravity of the accident curtailed their noble thought. The eyes of only one of the deceased could be donated. 

 The eyes of Jaywant Namdev Chavan and his wife Yogita were damaged to such an extent that they were declared unfit for donation. Only the eyes of their daughter, Revati, could be retrieved.
 
 Jayant, Yogita and Revati died after the minibus they were travelling in collided head-on with a lorry at   near Pune early on Saturday.
 
 A relative of Chavans said, "As soon as the news of the accident reached us, we started for   in Pune from Mumbai. During the journey, we decided to donate their eyes. But the doctors told us that the eyes of Jaywant and Yogita were badly damaged. Fortunately, they managed to retrieve the eyes of their daughter Revati."
 
 Balasaheb Gaikwad, a Pune-based relative of Chavans, told TOI, "Revati was a bright student. She was in Standard VIII of an English medium school in Mulund." 
 
 Chavan ran a small business of imitation jewellery in Mulund. The family hailed from Shirala in   district.
 
 Librarian Pradeep Ramchandra Awachat (49) and his wife Sulabha, both residents of Rajgurunagar, also died in the accident.
 
 "Awachat worked as a librarian in a   at Ane village on Kalyan-Ahmednagar highway in Junnar taluka. The residents of Rajgurunagar had shifted to the village about two years ago after Awachat was transferred there," said Harihar Deshpande, a relative of Awachats.
 
 Deshpande told TOI that Awachats were survived by their parents. "They do not have children but had adopted a girl some 20 years ago. They took care of her right from her education to her marriage," he said. 
 
 As Awachat was a librarian, he was fond of reading books. He always took efforts to imbibe the reading habit among students wherever he was posted, Deshpande said.
 
 Deshpande, Gaikwad and the family members of the other victims told TOI that those who died in the accident were a close-knit group fond of visiting different places. "They regularly arranged trips and pilgrimages," Deshpande said. 
 
 The group had planned this trip as it was a long weekend with Monday off.
 
 Irangowda Sharnappa Shirol-Patil, the owner of the minibus involved in the accident, told TOI that   - one of the victims - had booked his vehicle. 
 
 "The bus went to Mulund at 9pm on Friday to pick up passengers. Then it went to Chakan to pick up Awachats. Thereafter, it started for Akkalkot in Solapur district. The group was supposed to go to Narsobawadi, Kolhapur and Gangapur in Karnataka and return to Mumbai on March 13," he said.
 
 
