BHUBANESWAR: Prime Minister   is likely to pay obeisance at the   here during his two-day   to attend the BJP   here. Modi, who often visits temples wherever he goes, may visit the 11th century Shiva shrine on April 16, the second day of his visit. The Prime Minister's Office has already made enquiries regarding the security arrangements and possible routes that the PM would take in case he decides to spend some time in the temple built by Somavanshi king Yayati. 

 Visiting places of worships, which carries a significant political message, has been part of Modi's itinerary during many of his outings. On Monday itself, the PM visited the Akshardham Temple in New Delhi accompanied by visiting Australia Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull. "Visited the magnificent Akshardham Temple with PM @TurnbullMalcolm,"   tweeted with a set of pictures of him and Turnbull at Akshardham.
 
 Last month, Modi had offered several litres of milk, Ganga water and flowers at Kashi Vishwanath temple in his parliamentary constituency Varanasi and performed "aarti" there. 
 
 On the occasion of Mahashivaratri on February 24, the PM unveiled, a 112-ft high face of Lord Shiva in Coimbatore. In January, the Prime Minister offered prayers at Sri Venkateswara Swamy Temple at Tirupati in Andhra Pradesh. Before that the PM had served langar at Golden temple in Amritsar in December. During his last visit to Odisha, when he was here to inaugurate the IOCL's Paradip refinery in February last year, Modi had visited the 12th century Lord Jagannath temple in Puri.
 
 BJP sources said since the PM won't have a public meetings, the party is planning many people's connect programmes from the moments the PM lands here on April 15 afternoon till he leaves Odisha the next evening. A human chain would greet the PM from the Biju Patnaik international airport to the party's national executive venue at Janata Maidan where he would reach in a road show. The BJP is planning rousing welcomes at three places on the route. A makeshift PMO will function inside the national executive venue.
 
