COIMBATORE: Born in a city synonymous with races and rallies, hotelier Ramkumar Giri remembers being a lover of cars and bikes since childhood. It was in the early eighties that his love affair with bikes began. Giri today owns one of the most prized and largest bike collections in the city.

 Giri’s passion with bikes began in his pre-teens when he noticed people coming to visit his father, riding two-wheelers. “Those days, there were only scooters. So I used to secretly try riding them or ask them to take me on rides,” he says. Giri got his first bike (a Pearl Yamaha) when he was 16-year-old in 1976. “It was a small bike that I used to regularly ride to school and college,” he says. 
 
 However, he began getting serious about riding in 1980. “It was in 1982 that I won the Bullet Novice national championship. Those days such events used to be very far and few, happening hardly once a year,” says the hotelier, now in his late fifties. “They used to be held in the Sholavaram track every year,” he says.
 
 Giri seriously began collecting bikes since 1990s. He is known to have one of the most eclectic mixes of bikes, which include some classic bikes from the 1940s to some of the latest superbikes. “My personal favourite is the Triumph Thunderbird 650 cc twin which is a 1963 model. The bike was bought during the pre-import era (before 2010) and restored by me,” he says. “I still ride it today and is one of the most roads worthy bikes I know,” he adds. “My other prized possession is a 1956 model of the Matchless, which was owned by the late K   of   hotels. It was given to me by one of his sons in a non-running condition to restore & show it to Naidu, which was done and he asked me to maintain it for him. I still ride it,” he says.
 
 He recalls how AJS, Matchless, Triumph, Royal Enfield and BSA were the five companies which manufactured bikes during the world war. “A majority of my bike collection is from the 1950s era and British Twins,” says Giri, “I also have 50 to 60 years old Italian Scooters Lambrettas & Vespas in mint condition.”
 
 All his bikes are kept in a garage, in a bid to shield it from sunlight and water but without fuel. “We spray oil over them to prevent them from rusting,” he says. 
 
 However, his latest favourites would be Triumph Thruxton, Triumph Daytona, and Suzuki Bandit, which he rides at least once a week. “I am a solo rider, and enjoy an early morning to nearby hill stations like Ooty, Coonoor and Kotagiri around once a week,” he says.
 
