UDAIPUR: Uganti’s revolt against the double standard of treatment meted out to rural women and her struggle to get access to the only community toilet during morning hours are deeply inspiring the fairer sex in remote villages of Udaipur. 

 The recently released film ‘Gutru-Gutargun’, starring Asmita Sharma who is also the Udaipur brand ambassador for Swachh Bharat Mission, has touched the women so much that they have picked up spades to get toilets constructed in their homes.
 
 The story revolves around a village where houses have no toilets and separate laws for men and women to use the only community toilet. Women are permitted to use it only after dusk. The movie has been put under tax free category in Rajasthan and Udaipur district administration along with NGOs are encouraging villagers to watch the movie, first one to raise the issue of sanitation in a satirical way. Since its premier on February 3 in Udaipur, hundreds of people especially women from remote villages have watched the film which is inculcating a positive effect on them. 
 
 “Within a week of watching the film, more than 50 women have convinced the men in their respective families and started construction of toilets in Kurabad and Phalasiya blocks,” says O P Sharma, country director of Wells for India (WI), a UK based NGO. WI and its partners   and   had organized a special movie show for 550 women from tribal Phalasiya and Kurabad block of Udaipur and women audience enjoyed the satire thoroughly. 
 
 Sarpanch Geeta Devi Gamar from Amaliya village of Phalasiya block was so moved up that she made a commitment publicly to make her gram panchayat open defecation free (ODF) at the earliest. She organized a meeting in her area and urged women to take lead in constructing toilets. 
 
 Rodi Bai Gameti from Bhalon ka Guda gram panchayat of Kurabad block said, “I could relate with Uganti, the protagonist in the movie as I too have to get up early mornings to walk to the fields for defecation and wait for the sunset to attend to the natural call again”. Besides, their concerns of dignity upkeep, safety from anti-social elements and attacks from wild animals is another fear of the women folk in rural belts who have to go to secluded laces to relieve themselves.
 
 “The movie highlighted daily struggle of women like me for not having a toilet close to our house. I had asked my husband many times but he never took it seriously, but after watching the film, I was more assertive and he could not ignore anymore. My son and daughter-in-law have now started the toilet construction work and we will complete it soon,” says Hudi Bai from  . 
 
 “We are getting full support from NGOs and the movie is indeed has much impact on bringing about a positive change in the mindsets of people,” said  , CEO of Udaipur Zila Parishad. “There are hundreds of villages like the one shown in the movie and thousands of Uganti’s who have to wait till dusk to get access to toilets. We are happy that the movie is instilling courage and confidence among the female mass to voice their opinions and problems strongly,” Asmita Sharma, the lead actress said. 
 
 Udaipur: Uganti’s revolt against the double standard of treatment meted out to rural women and her struggle to get access to the only community toilet during morning hours is deeply inspiring the fairer sex in remote villages of Udaipur. 
 
 Swach Bharat Mission, Udaipur brand ambassador and actress Asmita Sharma’s recently released bollywood film ‘Gutru-Gutargun’ has touched the women so much that they have picked up spades and laboring themselves to get toilets constructed in their homes. 
 
 The story revolves around a village where houses have no toilets and separate law for men and women to use the only community toilet. Women are permitted to use it only after sunset. The film is tax free in Rajasthan and Udaipur district administration and NGOs are encouraging villagers to watch the movie which is the first one raising the issue of sanitation in a satirical way. Since its premier on February 3 here, hundreds of people specially women from remote villages have watched the film which is laying a positive effect on them. 
 
 “ Within a week of watching the film , more than 50 women have convinced the men in their families and started construction of toilets in Kurabad and Phalasiya blocks” says O.P Sharma, country director, Wells for India (WI) a UK based NGO. WI and its partners Mahan Sewa Santhan and Hanuman Van Vikas Samiti had organized a special movie show for 550 women from tribal Phalasiya and Kurabad block of Udaipur and the women audience enjoyed the satire thoroughly. 
 
 Sarpanch Geeta Devi Gamar from Amaliya village of Phalasiya block was so moved up that she made a commitment publicly to make her Gram Panchayat open defecation free at earliest. She organized a meeting in her area and urged women to take a lead in constructing toilets. 
 
 Rodi Bai Gameti from Bhalon ka Guda gram panchayat of Kurabad block said “ I could relate with Uganti, the protagonist in the movie as I too have to get up very early in the mornings to walk to the fields for defecation and wait for the sun-set to attend to the natural call again”. Besides their concerns of dignity upkeep, safety from anti social elements and attacks from wild animals is another fear of the women folk in rural belts who have to walk to secluded areas to relieve themselves.
 
  “The movie highlighted the daily struggle of women like me for not having a toilet close to our house. I had asked my husband many times but he never took it seriously, but after watching the film, I was more assertive and he could not ignore. My son and daughter-in-law have now started the toilet construction work and we will complete it soon” says Hudi bai from Sankroda Gram Panchayat. 
 
 “We are getting full support from NGOs and the movie is indeed laying much impact on bringing about a positive change in the mindsets of the people” Avichal Sharma, CEO Udaipur Zila Parishad said. “ There are hundreds of villages like the one shown in the movie and thousands of Uganti’s who have to wait for dusk to get access to toilets. We are happy that the movie is instilling courage and confidence among the female mass to voice their opinion and problems strongly” Asmita Sharma, the lead actress said.
 
