NEW DELHI: The Delhi high court has directed the three municipal corporations in the city to put   the   of the number of vacant seats in the schools run and aided by them.

 A bench of acting Chief Justice Gita Mittal and Justice Anu Malhotra also made it clear that it is the responsibility of the civic body to direct their primary schools to forward the list of vacant seats in each class by December 31 of each year, so that it can be uploaded on time.
 
 “This should include the number of vacancy in the lowest class of the schools,” the bench noted, adding that in case the schools have any specific criteria for admission, it too should be mentioned in the information list put on their websites.
 
 HC’s direction came on a plea filed by an activist who alleged that the lack of transparency regarding the seats available, the rules and regulations for admissions violated the fundamental right of a child to free and compulsory education.
 
 The petition said that parents would not be able to obtain such information if the process was not made transparent.
 
 Seeing merit, the court agreed with the petitioner that the civic bodies should publish all the data about the availability of seats and the filling up of these seats in every school, ahead of the academic sessions.
 
 It said the complete information should be uploaded by April 1 of every year.
 
 “The MCDs shall strictly abide by the courts directions,” the bench observed, adding that it was their duty to inform all schools under them and upload it within the time fixed by this court.
 
 It further directed the corporations to upload all circulars stating the timelines, rules, process, documents required, procedures and grievance redressal process, along with the address and contact details of the officers concerned on the portal.
 
 The petitioner had claimed that there was no way for parents to find out the number of vacant seats in their neighbourhood schools due to the non-transparency and unaccountability.
 
 
