Claiming nuisance, the residents a Pune neighbourhood, demand closure of a cluster of restaurant/bars in their vicinity

 The folks living and working along the   Road stretch (nearly five kms long), wanted more hangouts, restaurants and places to unwind. They got all that and more, when five popular chains – including Agent Jack’s Bar,   and   – recently launched in a commercial building called Deron Heights. But in barely two months of operations, the owners of these establishments (that have been filling up to the brim on weekends) are now being asked to shut shop by the residents in the vicinity, on grounds of causing traffic snarls, playing loud music and in general, being a nuisance. The people living in a society just behind   have even started a Facebook page (NoBarAtMyDwaar) and Twitter handle (@NoBarAtMyDwaar) in protest, demanding the five restaurant/pubs in question be shut down. This, in addition to putting up notice boards around their neighbourhood, stating their problems and demands on social media, and lodging complaints with the concerned officials. We did a little digging to take stock of the situation and what’s at stake for both the establishments and the residents.
 
  
  
  
  Baner’s lane of woe
  The residential lane next to Deron Heights is home to a few bungalows and societies like Wellworth Celina, Runwal Sarowar, Runwal Surabhi, Runwal Samiksha, La Chapelle Manhattan and Tulips Appts. On our visit, one of the societies that has raised complaints with the commissioner’s office, excise office, revenue department, health department and FSSAI, had plenty to vent. But none of them were willing to be quoted. “The drivers of expensive cars park in the lane and are found smoking and passing comments at the girls who live in the area,” said one resident, while another chimed in, “The bar located on the rooftop uses search lights whose beam enters our houses.” The senior citizens living in the area claim the music played is so loud, that it makes their windows vibrate. Other problems they cited included traffic snarls because of the side entry to the parking, discarded bottles strewn in the lane, drunken brawls and exhausts directed towards the bungalows behind the complex. 
  
  Open to suggestions 
  But while residents cry foul and demand closure, the restaurant owners claim to understand their responsibilities, and want to address problems immediately. Manu Gulati, the owner and chief brewer at Effingut Brewerkz, admits that there were initial issues when they launched in December, but they have long since been ironed out. After ensuring valet parking, refitting chimneys and ensuring proper sound proofing, Manu says, “We are still open to any more suggestions that the residents have. But we are only getting calls from various departments asking for copies of our licenses. All of them are in place and are being produced when asked for. I have taken the lead asking the societies to approach us and tell us about any problems they are facing, so we can sort them out.” Seconding him, Varun Jadhav from The Irish Village, says that they are open to having a proper meeting with the society and building owners. “Sound and parking are the only problems we have been informed about. Once a meeting is held with the owners, all the problems will be sorted,” he says.
 
  
  
  
  Official word
  The Chaturshrungi police, who have received complaints from the residents recently, say that they are in the process of assessing the issue further. “Some residents have approached us with concerns over traffic and chaos in the evening. We will be sending detailed report to the commissioner’s office for further processing,” says Dayanand Dhome, senior police inspector of the police station. Explaining the process further, another senior official says, “The restaurants are in a commercial building and police can take action on deadline violations and traffic issues. The report from the police station will be considered at the police commissioner level and based on the gravity of the issue and possible solutions, further action will be taken.” But the Pune Municipal Corporation claims to have not received any complaints as yet. Stating that the police take action in traffic related cases, Sanjay Gavade, assistant commissioner, Ghole Road ward office, says, “If residents face sanitary problems or encroachment, they can reach us and we will take action.”
  
  Matter of perspective?
  And as with any social media debate, we found protesters and those who thought the objections were uncalled for. Baner-based Sonal Beri for instance, says that on all three visits to one of the establishments in the building, the music was not as loud as being claimed. She also feels that holding the restaurants responsible for misbehaving visitors, is not fair. Arijit Gupte, who has also visited the space more than once, says, “The security there did not allow me to park in the lane. They directed me to the dedicated parking area. And I did not see anyone hanging out in front of the residential buildings. Besides, when the restaurant owners are open to discussion, a mutual solution can definitely be arrived at.” Agreeing with Arijit, Aniruddha Patil the founder of Pune Eat Outs says, “We have a legal framework in place for businesses and it’s imperative that it’s been complied. Any differences that exist beyond statutory adherence, must be bridged with a tri-party dialogue between the restaurants, residents and authorities.”
 
 - with inputs form Shashank Sane and Anup Satphale
 Pics: Shashank Sane
 
 
