LUCKNOW: Afreen couldn’t have imagined a wedding without a non-vegetarian menu, least of all her own. Her nikah is scheduled for Monday but instead of being in a celebratory mood, Afreen is cringing at the thought of the largely vegetarian spread on her reception.

 The strike by the butchers’ association has led to an acute   of  . Since the strike coincides with the wedding season, many Muslim families would be forced to tone down their celebration. “An elaborate non-vegetarian menu is the essence of all Muslim weddings. A function is incomplete without kakori kababs, biryani and   roganjosh.,” said Shahnawaz Khan, Afreen’s brother.
 
 While most of the caterers have given in to the unavailability of buffalo meat and shortage of mutton and   and are refusing meat items, the top ones have just hiked their rates. “Substituting all buffalo meat dishes with mutton and chicken is a costly affair. One, because mutton is already expensive than buffalo meat and second, because the required quantity increases proportionally. So a non-veg plate that usually costs around Rs 1,000 would now cost Rs 1,200-1,300, depending upon the number of items in the menu. For those who are ready to bear this cost, we are trying to procure chicken from poultry farms. However, getting mutton would still be a problem,” said Hamid Hassan, a wedding planner from the city. 
 
 Nadir Ahmed, whose son’s wedding is on Tuesday, said though he couldn’t change the wedding date, he did postpone the walima (reception) so that the cost could be controlled.
 
 “In Muslim weddings, serving non-vegetarian food is a matter of prestige. I have included 51 items in the menu and arrangements have been made for around 1,000 people. In such a situation, the budget was shooting up by around Rs 4 lakh so I decided to manage the nikah but reception has been postponed,” he said.
 
 In the past two days, several wedding functions were affected because of the scarcity of buffalo meat. Recalling a wedding he attended at Balrampur Garden on Friday, Abid, a lawyer, said, “Galawati kababs were made of mutton and seekh kebabs of chicken sausages. The original flavor was missing. Even the curries tasted different, I think most people filled their plates with vegetarian food.”
 
 
