KOLKATA:   has introduced 625 pairs of eyes and ears more to keep a check on road violence and  . With as many sergeants fitted with body cams, the top brass is hopeful that any   can be recorded and provided as   against the offenders in court. 

 The introduction of the cameras will eliminate age-old problems the men in uniform face while on duty. It will bring to an end the practice of dropping names of influential leaders after a crime is committed. “Sergeants will now be able to record almost every interaction they have with public. If needed, they can send real-time feed to the headquarters to assess the on-ground situation and work out a strategy,” a senior police officer said.
 
 The cameras will also reduce incidents of attack on police. Of late, there has been a sudden spurt in such cases. Traffic sergeants, in particular, become easy targets. Most of the time, it is a mob attack. Now, a sergeant can record such attacks on his camera and the attackers can be singled out, identified and punished. 
 
 Often, cops face fabricated complaints on the basis of which they face prosecution. Police claimed the cameras would help in decreasing the number of such “malicious complaints”. Similarly, oppressive behaviour by police, particularly during traffic checks, would decline and the system of gathering evidence would improve, said additional commissioner of police (i) Vineet Goyal.
 
 Manufactured by Transcend, a Taiwanese firm, the cameras are equipped with an internal memory of 32GB. All 625 sergeants manning 25 traffic guards have started wearing the device. All of them have been trained to operate the device. They are instructed to fix the camera to their uniforms during duty hours and switch it on whenever required.
 
 “These cameras validate evidence and decrease the complaint of foul behaviour of police officers. The cameras are notable because of their placement, often on the shirt that gives a first-person perspective and a more complete chain of evidence rather than the   cameras that are fixed and operate from a distance,” said Goyal.
 
 The sergeants will have to hand over the device to a designated person in his traffic guard, who in turn, will transfer the recorded footage to a computer. The footage will automatically be stored in the server of Kolkata Police headquarters at Lalbazar as well as computers of all 25 traffic guards that are linked to the Lalbazar server.
 
 
