KOLKATA: Two successive moves by the   government on private healthcare and education — issues close to the heart of the educated middle class — are aimed at the big picture of the 2019 Lok Sabha polls.

 This is the first time in her seven-year tenure since 2011 that Mamata is trying to address the urban middle class, which had stood by her against the ruling Left when she used to fight the Lok Sabha polls from Jadavpur and later from Kolkata South, but which may be wavering, according to the feedback the ruling Trinamool has got.
 
 Mamata knows that she is treading a difficult terrain given the legal muscles these corporate bodies have. The recently passed West Bengal Clinical Establishment (Registration, Regulation & Transparency) Bill may be challenged in the court of law, while the proprietors of the English-medium schools, particularly the minority schools, won’t like the government’s interference in fixing fees. Yet, she is sending out this message to hold on to a section of the middle class that may be enamoured with Narendra Modi.
 
 BJP’s getting 16% votes in Bengal in the 2014 Lok Sabha polls didn’t bother the ruling Trinamool as long as the party ate into Left pie share and decimated Congress. In fact, the split in the opposition vote bank explains the Trinamool’s spectacular victory in 2016 assembly polls. But this may turn dangerous for Trinamool if BJP makes dents in south Bengal. How far the BJP will be able to make it depends on the outcome of the Uttar Pradesh assembly polls.
 
 Tell-tale signs of a counter-polarisation at work is evident following the untoward developments in and around urban areas — Dhulagarh in Howrah, Hazinagar in North 24 Parganas, Urdibazar in Chandernagore. Such a perception may go to the BJP’s advantage. Taking note of it, Mamata has silently picked up issues like health and education. In the   on Friday, the CM also warned strong action against the biker menace particularly in Kolkata.
 
 The purpose is to engage with the middle class that gave her the lifeline in her bad days. Mamata wants to consolidate the urban support in cities and towns across Bengal along with villages to outpace the Left in Kerala in terms of Lok Sabha seats and emerge as a key player in the anti-Modi alternative. Mamata knows that Congress can’t afford to ignore her if she can bag more than 35 seats.
 
 Confident of the support of the minorities as long as BJP is in the driver’s seat in Delhi, Mamata has also stopped rubbing the Modi government the wrong way. Mamata didn’t stick her neck out and go a whole hog against the Modi government during the Uttar Pardesh and Punjab assembly polls as she had announced earlier. “Mamata isn’t going to put all her eggs in the same basket. Instead, she prefers to remain grounded in Bengal,” a senior Trinamool leader said.
 
 
