Hyderabad: With several hundred intricately designed structures belonging to the three medieval dynasties of the Deccan – The Kakatiyas, Qutb Shahis and Asaf Jahis – strewn across Hyderabad, why does the UNESCO World   Site tag continue to elude our city?

 For starters, it appears that the previous governments paid scant regard to the treasure trove of heritage. Many of these structures are crumbling or have been defaced by generations of tourists and encroachers.
 
 But there is a bigger question that begs an answer: Can The   Heritage (Protection, Preservation, Conservation and Maintenance) Act, which was passed recently in the Assembly within the span of a few minutes without debate or discussion, actually help to save these structures? 
 
 Heritage experts are not very optimistic for several reasons.
 
 The new Act categories and populates the heritage structures and precincts in the state into four lists — Pre-Proto Protected Monuments, Pre-Kakatiyan Protected Monuments, Kakatiyan Protected Monuments and Post-Kakatiyan Protected Monuments. But in a glaring omission, there is no separate list for the structures constructed during the Qutb Shahi and Asaf Jahi period. 
 
 “There are hundreds of Qutb Shahi and Asaf Jahi structures in the city. It is strange that there is no clear categorization. There are some structures from both periods listed in the ‘Post Kakatiyan Protected Monuments’ category, but this classification is unjust. It appears that the drafters of the Bill saw heritage primarily through a Kakatiyan prism,” said a prominent heritage activist, who did not wish to be named.
 
 The nature of architecture of the Qutb Shahis itself makes the case for it to be considered as an entity in itself, feels Sajjad Shahid, member of the former Heritage Conservation Committee. “The Qutb Shahis strove for a uniqueness in architecture which was Islamic in nature but deeply rooted in the Deccan,” he said.
 
 But that is not the only alarming omission in the Act. Of the 138 structures in the city, which were previously protected by the now defunct Regulation 13, not a single one has made it into the four lists specified by the new Act.
 
 “This means that the government has ignored the importance of local heritage. It has diluted the approach towards heritage buildings,” said conservation architect A S N Murthy, who felt that mass consultations should have been held with residents of the city before drafting the legislation.
 
 This move, experts feel, could be the city’s undoing in its bid for the coveted UNESCO heritage city tag.
 
 Another move by the government that has left heritage experts wary is the constitution of the Telangana State Heritage Authority as mandated by the new Act. The state government, claiming reverence for cultural heritage, is set to appoint government officials as its protectors. While the purported motive is the decentralisation of heritage protection, activists say that these bodies will end up doing the government’s bidding. This could be disastrous as in the case of the Osmania General Hospital building that the government had proposed to demolish two years ago.
 
 The Telangana State Heritage Authority is to be headed by a serving chief secretary. As members, it will have secretaries of municipal administration and urban development, tourism, education and finance as well as director of the department of archaeology and museums (DAM). Only two non-government members will be co-opted. The case is similar with the district-level heritage committees.
 
 “In contrast, the Heritage Conservation Committee was headed by a retired chief secretary. Apart from the director of DAM, it had several independent members. What we need is an autonomous, empowered heritage watchdog which works with the government,” said Sajjad Shahid.
 
 For their part, government officials said the Act brings about decentralization of power, streamlines processes and gives more flexibility for heritage protection. “We are giving incentives to heritage building owners. The focus is also on empowering local heritage bodies. For example, a set of rules in Hyderabad may not work in Karimnagar. We are protecting vernacular heritage as well,” the official said.
 
 Asked about the method of classification and the absence of separate Qutb Shahi and Asaf Jahi lists, the official said, “It is a good suggestion. The lists can be created at a later stage. We have worked hard to draft the document and utmost case has been taken to make sure that the Act provides for solutions to problems. Lists will be populated at the GHMC level as well.”
 
 
