NEW DELHI: After India restricted Australia’s lead to 87, courtesy Ravindra Jadeja’s six for 63, in the first session, it was imperative for India to start well to get back on even terms in the second India v Australia Test at Chinnaswamy Stadium, Bangalore and KL Rahul provided the start with a watchful 51, but heading in to tea India had handed Australia the advantage after losing four wickets in the post –lunch session. But Cheteshwar Pujara (79*) and Ajinkya Rahane (40*) rescued the hosts with a valiant 93-run unbeaten stand for the fifth wicket - the best partnership in the series for either team - helping India (213/4) to a lead of 126 runs on day three. 

 India were effectively 35 for four going in to the final session and for them to have any glimmer of hope in the Test match, they needed to win the battle of attrition and who better than Rahane and Pujara to consume time and frustrate Australia? The intensity of the bowlers was right up there in the first two sessions but it waned in the final and both Indian batsmen took advantage of that. Nathan Lyon continued to find turn and bounce from a good length area but this time around Rahane and Pujara were better prepared and luck also went their way. A lot of balls that spun sharply and bounced in excess could very well have been bat-padded to the close in fielders, but that did not happen. A lot of deliveries from pacers Mitchell Starc, Josh Hazlewood and Mitchell Marsh kept dangerously low but both Rahane and Pujara managed an edge. 
 
 As the session progressed, both looked confident and trusted the pitch better and runs came. Pujara racked up his 14th Test fifty off 125 deliveries with a flick towards square leg. A lead of over 200 would set up the contest beautifully and with six wickets in hand, India could have a good shot at winning this one with two more days to go on the crumbling Bangalore track. 
 
 Earlier starting the day on 237 for six and with a lead of 48, Australia would have eyed a lead in the range of 100-150. Starc, whose Pune heroics with the bat had proved pivotal in Australia's victory, could not repeat the feat as he was the first to go trying to heave Ravichandran Ashwin over midwicket, only to find Jadeja in the deep. The turn and bounce on the Banglore track was not as alarmingly or prodigious as had been on day one and day two but accurate stump-to-stump bowling fetched Jadeja the wickets. Wade prodded forward only to find the ball turn towards him and he was adjudged leg before wicket for 40. With a fuller delivery Jadeja trapped Nathan Lyon in the same over and then one over later, Josh Hazlewood skied one to long-on to hand Jadeja his sixth wicket. Australia were all out for 276.
 
 In reply, India walked out to bat and both Rahul and Abhinav Mukund looking much more assured in the middle than they had been in the first innings. However, Mukund failed to add to his pre-lunch score of 16 and was castled by Hazlewood in the first over of the second session but Rahul, at the other end, applied himself well on the tough track. Lyon got better purchase of the track than both Ashwin and Jadeja managed earlier in the day and that spelled trouble for the Indian batsmen. It did not take long for the offspinner to find that length that had fetched him eight wickets in the first innings. Because of the extra rip he gives while bowling, Lyon made the ball turn alarmingly but it was the delivery that didn’t turn that proved dangerous. Pujara played for the spin to an offbreak delivery; got a thickish edge but the ball hit wicketkeeper Matthew Wade’s pad and fell safely. Off the next ball, Pujara went back but the good length delivery bounced unexpectedly from the rough and the middle-order batsman bat-padded it just wide of the short leg fielder. 
 
 In the next over from Lyon, Rahul edged another offbreak that flew to Smith, who failed to latch on to the low catch. Pujara, decided to come down the track to negate the spin but lobbed one almost to short-midwicket. Maybe this was the luck India needed – which eluded them in the first innings. Rahul looked confident in the middle and reached a well deserved fifty. Then again, Australia are the number two Test team for a reason. While Rahul and Pujara seemed to have nullified Lyon, Steve O’Keefe and Hazlewood stepped up. O’ Keefe bowled a wide one for Rahul to drive; he obliged and got an edge and Smith redeemed himself for the earlier drop with a marvellous diving catch at first slip. The in-form batsman was out and in came Hazlewood. 
 
 A probing spell from the fast bowler led to the downfall of Kohli and Jadeja. He got the ball to jag back in and one such delivery, that also kept low, had Kohli trapped in front. He was given out, but the Indian captain reviewed. It was surely a good review but repeated replays failed to produce any conclusive evidence on whether the ball hit the bat or the pad first and the on-field umpire’s decision stood. Kohli departed for 15 and three overs later, Hazlewood knocked over Jadeja for 2. At tea, India were 122 for four with a lead of 35, before Pujara and Rahane combined to take India to their highest team total so far in the series. 
 
 
 : India 213/4 (Pujara 79*, Rahul 51; Hazlewood 3/57) & 189 lead Australia 276 (Shaun Marsh 66, Renshaw 60; Jadeja 6/63) by 126 runs
 
 
