LUCKNOW: Responding to BJP's alleged attempts to communalise the UP polls, Congress vice-president   invoked yet another filmy analogy while addressing poll rallies on home turf Amethi on Thursday. 

 Recalling a song from Yash Chopra's directorial debut 'Dhool Ke Phool' (1959), Rahul said it was unfortunate that the prime minister was making repeated attempts to divide the state on religious grounds.
 
 "Modiji is getting angry now that he has realised BJP is losing ground in UP. In his desperation, he is trying to divide people on the basis of their religious faith," Rahul said. Then, in a "message" to the PM, Rahul said, "Tu Hindu Banega Na Musalman Banega, Insaan Hai Insaan ki Aulaad Banega."
 
 Rahul added, "We built the united India of Gandhiji's dreams. But you want to build the India of RSS' dreams. We will not let that happen. Modiji, don't divide the great leaders of UP."
 
 This is the second time in a week that Rahul has harped on film analogies, and sought inspiration from Bollywood films to deliver political messages in his rallies. In Rae Bareli, where he campaigned with sister Priyanka last week, Rahul said PM Modi had started out attempting to be hero -- Shah Rukh Khan of Dilwale Dulhaniya Le Jayenge - but ended up being the villain, Gabbar Singh of Sholay.
 
 On Thursday, in back-to-back campaigns for Congress candidates in Amethi, Jagdishpur and Gauriganj, Rahul also said he was not concerned about the barrage of personal attacks on him by PM Modi and other BJP leaders. "What hurts me is that they have played politics of vendetta and Modiji has snatched the mega food park, Hindustan Paper Mill, and IIIT projects from Amethi, each of which would have generated over 10,000 jobs for the local people," Rahul said.
 
 While campaigning in Amethi on Thursday, Congress' campaign committee chairman Sanjay Sinh attempted to underplay the 'rani versus rani' battle brewing on Amethi soil, where his first wife Garima is pitted against his second wife Ameeta. Sinh said, "She (Garima) is a poor woman who does not know anything about Amethi. This is a crude BJP ploy to engage her and use her for political gains."
 
