BENGALURU: The  ,  , feels   is inevitable in policing. He outlined the broad contours of what   would be like in the city in the days to come, hours after taking charge.
 
 
 
 
 Raising the morale of policemen. To deliver the promises made to the citizen, I need a force which is not cynical and low on morale. Morale is improved by giving policemen what they deserve. One of the first things I did after taking charge was to visit one of the police quarters. Orders have been issued to demolish one of the dilapidated buildings, so that we can provide that land to the Police Housing Corporation to construct a new building.
 
 But cleanup appears more prominent than morale. Eight policemen were dismissed on corruption and malpractice charges last month.
 
 Improving morale doesn't mean pampering policemen.The carrot and stick go together. While we are trying to address policemen's demands, weeding out of bad elements will continue. It is also a part of boosting morale. If those indulging in criminal activity are not removed, there is no reward for being good.
 
 
 
 Technology infusion is inevitable. We cannot expect the government to constantly and quickly increase manpower, and the gap created can only be filled by technology . What I mentioned today is that people go to the police for several services, such as passport verification, permission etc.We don't want people to frequent police stations for these services, we want technology to replace this human effort.
 
 Basic policing -dial 100 and police response -is under heavy criticism for inefficiency.
 
 The demand is huge and our resources are limited. We operate 20 lines for dial 100, for a population of 1 crore; it is indeed a negligible number.So we are upgrading them to 100 lines and from 100 Hoysala patrol vehicles, we've moved to 221. If these two happen, in theory, our response system will improve.
 
 
 
 
 We need 400-500 people to han dle these new lines, and for the additional patrol vehicles, we need as many personnel, petrol and communication equipment. We are growing but not at the pace people want, and our resources are not unlimited. So our aim is to optimize the available resources to respond to people better and faster.
 
 
 
 
 No, I would be taking as much interest in law and order, crime and traffic. However, unlike law and order and crime, where I have to take feedback to understand the situation, for traffic I'm in a position to provide my inputs from Day 1.
 
 
 
 
 These are not decisions traffic police can take, these are political decisions to be taken in consultation with all agencies involved.
 
