Tonight’s the night when the who’s who of the Indian film industry will come together on your television screens at the 14th Sansui Colors Stardust Awards. At 7 pm on Colors, 2016’s cinematic excellence will be applauded for the distinctive mark it made. Here’s an exclusive sneak-peek for viewers before the event tonight.
Entertainment all the way 
 
 The King of Bollywood, Shah Rukh Khan, will dedicate the evening to his leading ladies and swoon to the songs ' ' and 'Gerua' amongst many others. The poster boys of B-Town — Ranbir Kapoor and Sushant Singh Rajput — will also steal the show with their adrenaline-filled acts. And the queen bees will not be far behind! Parineeti Chopra will celebrate cousin Priyanka Chopra’s international achievements through a specially choreographed tribute. Jacqueline Fernandez will transport you to the evergreen era of   as she pays homage to melody queen Asha Bhosle. Diljit Dosanjh and Iulia Vantur also make their debuts on this stage with magnificent acts. 
 
 
 
 Proud papa Anil Kapoor will be on cloud nine seeing both his son and daughter take home the lovely trophies. Rishi Kapoor will experience his Kapoor & Sons moment on stage as wife   and beta Ranbir Kapoor present him with Best Supporting Actor Award. Aishwarya Rai Bachchan’s victory will be twice as sweet as hubby Abhishek Bachchan joins her on stage to shower her with hugs and kisses!
 
 
 
 Shah Rukh Khan and Anil Kapoor will warmly greet Amitabh Bachchan at the awards and Anil will also touch the thespian’s feet. Even daughter-in-law Aishwarya will honour the legend by touching his feet upon receiving her award from him. Salman Khan will be seen catching up with his first co-star, Rekha. 
 
 
 
 Abhishek Bachchan will team up with   to bring the house down with their unique brand of humour. From taking digs at the country’s demonetisation dilemma to attempting to steal awards from the winners, no one will be spared from their quirkiness. Adding to the craziness will be   who, along with Maniesh Paul, will 
 leave viewers in splits. A bouquet of heartwarming and fun-filled moments, the Sansui COLORS Stardust Awards will be the perfect amalgamation of everything entertainment.
 
 
  
