CHANDIGARH: The   of the Haryana assembly on Thursday witnessed uproarious scenes on Thursday, forcing its adjournment thrice, over INLD’s demand for ouster of Kaithal MLA and senior Congress leader   for his support to   on SYL canal. The speaker “named” (suspended for remainder of the day) INLD MLAs when they continued to raise slogans against Surjewala and the Haryana government, unmindful of his request to return to their seats.

 The din started when leader of opposition Abhay Singh Chautala took a dig at Surjewala, saying his presence during the release of Congress party’s manifesto for Punjab elections in January showed that he endorsed the proposal against SYL canal. Claiming that Surjewala was against SYL waters for Haryana, Chautala requested the speaker that such persons “who compromise state’s interests be sent out of this august House”.
 
 Other MLAs of the INLD came near Chautala’s seat and started raising slogans against Surjewala and Congress. As the ruckus continued, the speaker adjourned the House for 20 minutes and called both ruling and opposition legislators in his chamber for a meeting.
 
 After the 20-minute break, the House was adjourned for another 30 minutes. When it resumed, the speaker urged the members to exercise restraint. He then asked an INLD member to read out his calling attention notice on the issue of cattle smuggling. The INLD legislators, however, continued raising slogans. The speaker then named the INLD MLAs and suspended them for the remainder of the day before adjourning the proceedings again for 15 minutes. Led by Chautala, the INLD MLAs refused to budge and left only after persuasion by the assembly marshals and other staff.
 
 Later speaking to media, Chautala accused BJP of being hand-in-glove with the Congress. He said those struggling for the interests of Haryana were being thrown out of the House while the ‘traitors’, who had opposed SYL canal water for Haryana, were welcomed by the ruling party. He said they wanted Surjewala to tender an apology only and to pass a resolution against him for acting against the state’s interest.
 
 Countering the allegations, Surjewala said people of Haryana were well aware of who had compromised the state’s interests on the water issue. “It is a known fact that INLD patriarch and former deputy prime minister Devi Lal opposed the Rajiv-Longowal accord and former CM Om Prakash Chautala and other party leaders of his party showed black flags to the Eradi Commission. It is also a fact that Ajay Singh Chautala had said civil war would start if the Congress constructs the Hansi-Butana canal, which was meant to bring water to the parched southern Haryana,” he added.
 
 
