BENGALURU: Farmers in   are sowing the rabi crop early this season to make up for losses likely due to the poor kharif crop output.

 As per state government estimates, kharif crop production in the state will suffer an overall damage of around 10% to 20%. While major kharif crops like ragi, paddy and jowar have borne the brunt of the prolonged dry spell in June-July, the deluge in August-September has hit standing crops in several parts of the state.
 
 According to state agriculture department officials, the total area sown in the current kharif season till September 20 under different crops has been only 60.7 lakh hectare against the target of 73 lakh hectares.
 
 “Due to the extended dry spell in   region and torrential rain in north Karnataka during June-August, we anticipate a shortfall in foodgrain production. We hope the late revival of rain will brighten the prospects for key rabi crops and lessen the impact on food production in the state on account of the erratic behaviour of the monsoon,'' said Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre director G S Srinivasa Reddy .
 
 The erratic monsoon has hit paddy cultivation in the state. Farmers were not able to sow paddy in major growing areas of Gangavati, Koppal and Raichur and   districts, due to the sporadic rain and non-release of water from major reservoirs, said   chairman T N  . He also said the area under coarse cereals like jowar, ragi and small millets has gone down and there's no scope for increase in area under these crops. 
 
 While these are early days, agriculture department officials said the state government has been devising strategies to boost crop production in the rabi season. The government is expected to raise rabi grain production by 5%10% to offset drop in kharif grain output.
 
 SH   ,a farmer in Mandya district, said: “We're planning an early rabi crop. Most farmers could not sow paddy this year due to deficient rain.But we hope to compensate for the loss by sowing early in the rabi season.“
 
