KHARAGPUR: The meticulously planned but brazen murder of Kharagpur don   on Thursday afternoon has left the railway township stunned. The tension is palpable with some Naidu aides loosing cool and openly vowing revenge and fear of retaliatory attacks looming large. A huge police force in and around Naidu’s New Settlement home failed to quell fears. Naidu, who had survived an attempt to his life last September, couldn’t dodge his killers this time. The reason is simple — the killers appeared to know him and his whereabouts too well.

 The West Midnapore police detained five persons — including one who worked with a nursing home — from Ghatal. Word is out that police are also on the lookout for two Naidu-baiters, known as Prasad and Rao. Naidu had several rivals following his meteoric rise and his rapidly increasing political stakes. However, an investigator claimed they were mainly small-time criminals leading various breaka-way factions.
 
 Naidu’s killers gunned him down in a party office, which he built for his councillor wife Pooja, in his own territory — the New Settlement railway quarters. 
 
 The gunmen were well-prepared. They even knew that the CCTV in Naidu’s office wasn’t working for the last five days and the fact that he had returned from Kolkata only that morning.
 
 Naidu’s empire — as diverse as dealing in iron scrap and construction businesses to stakes in sand mining in the Surbarnarekha in Bhosraghat — had several eyeing the lucre. Police, for the moment, is not too keen to question Basab Rambabu — Naidu’s mentor-turned-foe. Naidu was arrested in 2011 for allegedly staging a murderous attack on Rambabu. Their rivalry hadn’t ebbed since Naidu — a small-time extortionist then — became desperate to get a toehold in the lucrative railway tenders, in which Rambabu held sway till his November 2001 arrest. Rambabu, police said, was released on bail only a fortnight back by a local court and directed to stay away from Kharagpur. Rambabu’s alibi notwithstanding, police stepped up security around his home fearing attack by Naidu’s aides.
 
 Pooja didn’t take any names. “He was trying to do something good for the people. He was working to develop the locality. People loved him here. I don’t know who killed him, but they should be punished.” 
 
 Pooja’s mother B Meena Kumari lodged a formal FIR detailing how Naidu was murdered, but refused to take names. The FIR was drawn up against unknown people. 
 
 Police too remained tight-lipped. West Midnapore SP Bharati Ghosh refused to comment. The only politician who visited Naidu’s home was Kharagpur Municipality chairperson Pradeep Sarkar. “One of my councillors has been widowed. It is my responsibility to be with her now. Police are doing whatever needs to be done,” he said.
 
 The witnesses, too, didn’t name anyone. V Govind Rao, who is now in the railway hospital with bullet wounds in his left leg and arm, said, “I had gone to collect Rs 20,000 due from Naidu. The attackers fired rampantly and we couldn’t flee.”
 
 
