Lucknow: With her   finally in hand and her bags all packed, no fence on the border will stop   (25), resident of  ,  , from coming to India to marry Syed Shariq Hashmi (28) of Lucknow in August.

 After two failed attempts to get an Indian visa for her mother, brother and herself, it was when the couple’s story was carried by TOI, first from Hyderabad and then from Lucknow and tweeted online, that the Union home minister’s office took note, sought details and finally issued visas for the family. 
 
 “I have got the visa to travel from Attari border by train and I couldn’t have been more thankful. We faced a tough time ever since we began the visa process last year and our application kept getting rejected, repeatedly,” a gleeful Sadia told TOI from Karachi. The three members of the family will soon be boarding Samjhauta Express from Pakistan for their journey to Delhi and then to Lucknow.
 
 On July 4, TOI had reported about Shariq and Sadia’s proposed wedding for August 1 and the problems they were facing. This was followed by another story on July 5, which reported their plan to postpone the wedding date because the visa application had been rejected twice. 
 
 When TOI tweeted the story, the Union home minister’s office (HMO) took note on July 13 and and sought details. Over the next few days, Sadia and her family’s application details were forwarded from the HMO to the   of   (MEA). The process was delayed somewhat when the MEA failed to reply. 
 
 “Home minister   spoke directly to minister of external affairs   on the issue. The visa came through after the MEA contacted the Indian High Commission (IHC),” said an official at the HMO. 
 
 When news reached Shariq and Sadia, their happiness knew no bounds. “The first thing I did was to call the IHC in Islamabad but they said they were not aware of the matter but later, I got a call from them asking me to send in the passports, which were returned with visa for India within two days,” said Sadia. 
 
 Scheduled to be held on August 1, the wedding has been postponed to a later date, subject to confirmation of tickets. “Visa is required for booking tickets and now that it has come through, Sadia and her family will travel from Karachi to Lahore to Attari in Pakistan and then in India, from Delhi to Lucknow and once our wedding is solemnised, I would apply for her long-term visa to let her stay with me,” said Shariq. 
 
 REVIVING AMAN KI ASHA
 
 July 4: TOI story on Indo-Pak couple facing visa issues for wedding in August
 
 July 5: Another TOI story on wedding getting postponed as visa application rejected 
 
 July 5: TOI reporter posts story online and tweets to MEA
 
 July 13: HMO takes note and extends help
 
 July 27: IHC in Islamabad calls for passport of the family 
 
 July 29: Visa granted to Sadia and her family to visit India 
 
 July 30: Sadia receives visa 
 
 
