Nagpur: ‘Asht Ganesh Vidarbhache’, a video of ‘aartis’ that also showcases the scenic beauty of temples captured by drones, was released at a programme organized by Jidnyasa Sanshodhan Kendra and Chaitanya Kalavishkar, at Shri Ganesh Tekdi Mandir, Sitabuldi, on Wednesday. The video of ‘aartis’ was released by Pundalikrao Jaunjal, president and SB Kulkarni, secretary, respectively of Tekdi Mandir. The video captures the elegance of Shri Chintamani Ganesh Mandir, Kalamb, Shri Ganpati Devasthan, Adasa, Bhrushunda Ganesh Mandir, Bhandara, Shri Siddhivinayak, Kelzar, Ashtdashbhuja Ganpati, Ramtek, Shri Dhundiraj Panchmukhi, Paoni, Shri Varadvinayak, Gavrala-Bhadravati and Shri Siddhivinayak, Nagpur.  The video will serve the dual purpose of attracting devotees to temples and also promoting tourism as the ‘Asht Ganesh’ in the region are endowed with bounty of nature. Although people often talk about development of Vidarbha by tapping its tourism potential, the ground reality is far from satisfactory. Therefore, Jidnyasa Sanshodhan Kendra has taken upon itself the responsibility of promoting tourism by uploading the video on YouTube. This, members of the organization say, will help boost tourism to religious places and also give business, though small in quantity, to the people living in rural areas. Manish Karandikar, president of Jidnyasa Sanshodhan Kendra, said, “Development of the region is our area of focus behind this initiative. We have given a spiritual touch to it as it connects people.”  Neha Kawadkar, secretary, told TOI, “This video captures beautiful but hidden spots in temples’ surrounding which are irresistible. Once devotees fall in love with these places, they would definitely revisit the areas as tourists. This will, in turn, help generate employment opportunities for people. It is our duty to take some initiative to assure better conditions in the region.”  Harshad Kadve and Sachin Pimplapure have provided video shoot with the help of drones while Neha Kawadkar, Danny Bobde and Rahul Kumar did the editing part. Sharad Pidadi has written the lyrics and also composed music. The ‘aartis’ have been sung by Jayashree Gokhale, Manjiri Banhatti, Ajay Marathe and Gopal Dave. (Reporting by Shubham Nagdeve)