PUNE: At the end of the day, the four-ward panel system introduced by the state government for the civic elections worked in favour of the   ( ) both in Pune Municipal Corporation and Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) elections.

 The system was introduced so that people vote for the party and not for candidates as they do for the assembly and Lok Sabha elections. The BJP had swept the assembly elections by winning all the eight seats in the city and the Lok Sabha seat with MP Anil Shirole registering a thumping victory in 2014. 
 
 Both Pune Municipal Corporation and Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation were dominated by the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) for over a decade. The BJP has won in both cities. In the last civic elections, the party had won 26 seats in Pune and just three in Pimpri Chinchwad.
 
 Experts said changing the system to a four-ward panel and having one or more than one candidate contesting the elections does not serve the objective of local elections where people are unable to vote for "deserving candidates". Citizens will stand distanced from governance and area development, they added.
 
 With no standardization of rules, successive state governments change the panel system which confuses citizens in every election. In the 2002 election, it was a one-ward system which required the election of just one corporator for about 10,000-15,000 voters. 
 
 The ward system in 2007 was changed by the then government which announced a three-corporator ward system which covered about 40,000-50,000 voters. 
 
 In 2012, the government again introduced the two corporators, one ward system with about 40,000 voters for every ward only to return with the new concept of the   which covered a larger jurisdiction as well as saw about nearly 60,000-75,000 voters.
 
 “Ideally, the government should have a system whereby all corporations follow one concept for at least 10-15 years rather than change it for every election to confuse the electorate. Each party coming to power suggests some innovation for their suitability of an assured win. Rather than have such a flip-flop policy, all parties should sit across the table and decide on a common system to follow,’’ political analyst   said. He denounced the frequent changes adopted for civic elections.
 
 Supporting his views, project coordinator   from Gokhale Institute of Politics and Economics said the system did see confusion in the minds of voters as it made the process more complicated and the “party bigger than the candidate”. Phadke said if the leadership model collapses and the party model is propogated it may essentially put the ward-level issues at bay.
 
 The experts also felt that this system is against the principle of local democracy as it does not allow the ordinary local people to contest as independents. This was visible in the elections where there were fewer independents, added the experts.
 
 Political experts said the BJP succeeded in clubbing a big chunk of the population into a panel, breaking small, but strong vote banks of the other parties. Anagha Purohit, urban planner and architect and social media co-convenor, said the idea of moving to four member ward system enabled the party to move out of the pocket system of voting and capture a more urban vote bank. However, she does say that coordination between four people would be essential in the four ward system.
 
 Citizens have been vocal as they feel it will work well for political gain but not for governance. Member of National Society of Clean Cities Satish Khot had called it as distancing the voter from the governance. “With four people and such huge areas, who will the citizen approach,’’ he said.
 
 Citizens have to deal with new faces from the parties as many old timers have been defeated. “The jurisdiction is wide. With four corporators in one area, how they go about addressing any issue is essential,’’ Murli Rao, a resident from Mundwa area, said.
 
