GANDHINAGAR: Despite the state and central government pushing hard to develop the Dholera Special Investment Region (SIR) near Ahmedabad for several years, the ambitious project seems to have failed to impress serious investors. While the state government has lined up memorandums of understanding (MoUs) worth Rs. 1.44 crore to be signed during the upcoming Vibrant summit, there is not a single renowned company or investor in the list of those interested in investing in the SIR. The Dholera SIR is being developed under the   (DMIC) project. The Centre has already sanctioned around Rs 3,000 crore for infrastructure works. Among those interested in signing MoUs at the summit next week is a little-known company, Gandhyaksha Infrastructure Ltd from Mumbai, which intends to invest Rs 57,290 crore to develop an international airport hub in Dholera and South Gujarat.

 Other investment proposals include Rs 6,500 crore by   for developing a defence cluster at Lakhtar in Surendranagar and Rs 500 crore by   for an engineering park. The only serious players in the MoUs list is Nirma Ltd, which has proposed a Rs 62 crore investment for salt works.
 
 Unsuitable low-lying area and the high flood zone is deterring investors from taking up projects in the SIR. The state government had inked agreements aggregating to over Rs 1 lakh for the Dholera SIR in 2009 but all the projects have so far been dropped.
 
 MoUs were for signed by the Mumbaibased Hindustan Construction Company (proposed investment Rs 40,000 crore), Sabeer Bhatia's Nanoworks Developers (Rs 30,000 crore) and Greater Dholera Infracon Pvt Ltd, Kolkata (Rs 40,000 crore).
 
 Chemical Cos to sign MoUs worth Rs 1,700 crore
 
 After the removal of the moratorium on , industrial expansion at Vatva, Vapi and Ankleshwar, chemical companies are now looking to expand and Vibrant Summit is the best platform to announce projects. As many as 215 industrial units in Vatva have decided to ink MoUs worth Rs. 1,000 crore during the summit next week. “Chemical companies operating in Vatva will be signing agreements for projects entailing a cumulative investment of Rs 1,000 crore.Most of these projects will be in the chemical sector,“ said Shailesh Patwari, senior vice president of   (GCCI). In addition to this, 250 units from Naroda industrial area will also be signing MoUs to the tune of Rs 700 crore. 
 
