BENGALURU: In perhaps the longest disruption of Metro services in the country and with no glitch to blame,   for seven hours on Friday as its staff went on a strike. Thousands of   were stranded through the morning, leading to chaos outside the stations, especially at Majestic Interchange.

 Trains failed to start from any of the four end stations -Byappanahalli, Nagasandra, Mysuru Road and Yelachenahalli -at 5am as hundreds of Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation staff went on a strike, seeking the release of two of their colleagues who were arrested after a scuffle with Karnataka State Industrial Security Staff on Thursday .
 
 After a series of negotiations and assurances from BMRCL that their demands would be met, the staff withdrew their protest and resumed services at noon.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Hours after the arrest of two of their colleagues over the scuffle, BMRC employees boycotted work and started a nightlong protest at Byappanahalli station on Thursday. By Friday morning, more staff joined the strike and gathered at the station. Passengers who flocked to stations to catch trains to work in faraway destinations were met with downed shutters and little information on why services were halted and when they would resume.
 
 The seven-hour disruption led to chaos at all 41 metro stations as commuters scrambled to get other means of transport to their destination. While BMTC buses were packed in no time, autorickshaw drivers charged double the fare from hapless commuters. Many others preferred to take their cars to work, leading to longer snarls on major roads. At Majestic, commuters who had arrived from the districts and from other states were clueless on how to get to their destinations in the city. At many stations, commuters were shooed away by the security staff who said it would be long before operations would resume.
 
 Negotiations with the staff began on Friday morning. Senior BMRC officials went to Byappanahalli station and addressed the employees but they stuck to their demand. Members of the INTUC extended support to the staff. Operations resumed at noon after the management said the demands would be looked into, said UA Vasanth Rao, chief public relations officer of BMRC.
 
 Suryanarayana Murthy, vice-president of BMRC Employees' Union, said, “We have withdrawn the protest for now.“
 
 
 
 BMRC MD Pradeep Singh Kharola told TOI that the protest was a result of Thursday's incident involving metro staff and KSISF personnel. “We have held talks with the Metro staff and the cops. Train operations were resumed by afternoon,“ he said, adding that the management had ensured that such a disruption wouldn't recur.“Thursday's incident involved assaults on Metro staffers and cops. Police have taken neces sary action. Any problem pertaining to work place, employees can talk to me,“ he said.
 
 
 
 
 Shanthinagar MLA NA Harris, who was part of the talks, said, “We will have a meeting next week with all the stakeholders. BMRC staffers have other problems pertaining to their working conditions. Namma Metro is very important for the city. Its employees should not be disgruntled. What happened on Thursday was entirely unwarranted and we have sought an inquiry.“
 
 
 
 
 Barely an hour after Namma Metro employees withdrew their strike on Friday and restarted train services, the state government issued an order bringing BMRC under the Karnataka Essential Services Maintenance Act 2013. With this, any strike by BMRC employees or deliberate disruption of train services will be treated as a non-bailable offence. The order was issued by the urban development department after lakhs of commuters were left in the lurch due to the employees' strike.
 
