Chennai: Japanese auto majors   and Suzuki’s global ‘business understanding’ will likely have far reaching impact on the Indian market particularly since India is one of the key ‘candidate regions’ to be covered under the partnership.

 The two companies concluded a memorandum on the proposed business partnership on Monday in Tokyo agreeing to work together on “environmental technologies, safety technologies, information technologies, and mutual supply of products and components,” said a statement.
 
 The impact of this partnership will be felt in India as well given that Toyota is examining its entry into the mass small car market with the Daihatsu brand while   is looking to de-risk its portfolio beyond small cars by targetting other emerging segments in India.
 
 The Indian arm of both companies —   and Toyota Kirloskar Motor — are waiting for cues from parent companies to figure out just what this partnership will bring. 
 
 “The (agreement with   Corporation) is aimed to achieve sustainable growth with mutual business interests staying independently competitive in the market. As we hear that India is one of the candidate regions considered to be covered in the implementation of this partnership, we at TKM look forward to the outcome under this memorandum,” said Akito Tachibana, MD, Toyota Kirloskar Motor: 
 
 Sources say Toyota may be looking to learn the "mass market dynamics" from Suzuki while the latter may be looking for ‘next gen safety, emission, infomatics technology’ from Toyota. “We don’t know what Toyota wants. Certainly we would want to know what they want. They already have a small car company in Daihatsu. If the focus is on new areas of technology that will be of interest to us also. If Suzuki gets some technology on safety, IT etc, it will be of interest to us also. But we are involved at all in these discussions,” said RC Bhargava, chairman, Maruti Suzuki. 
 
 This is not the first time Suzuki has been wooed by a much larger player globally. It was once in a long-term partnership with General Motors and more recently in advanced talks with Volkswagen. Neither relationship survived. Though compared to earlier partnerships this one is a lot different. “The partnership with GM came apart because GM got into problems and walked out,” said Bhargava. “With Volkswagen it failed for cultural reasons but given that both Suzuki and Toyota are Japanese companies, that should not be a problem this time round.”
 
 
