GOA: The mythical creation of Goa is ascribed to Lord Parshuram, a reincarnation of Vishnu. According to the Sahyadri Khanda of the ancient text, Skanda Purana, Parshuram’s mission was to annihilate the Kshatriyas. Parshuram drove out most of the Kshatriyas and gifted their lands to Kashyap, his high priest. Kashyap then requested Parashuram to leave and settle in a different place. So Parshuram shot an arrow that landed at Komlatollem in Benaulim, Salcete.

 Since this time, the 66-village strong Salcete taluka has been Goa’s biggest, and once had the largest landmass of 438sq km. Margao, known as Mathgram, village of maths (monasteries), was the chief village of Salcete from the time Indo-Aryans conquered it from its original tribal settlers.
 
 History has it that early settlers who came to Goa from the   coast (the Saraswats) landed in Benaulim, from where they settled in the eight principal villages of Salcete, Margao being one of them. 
 
 “Salcete was the cradle of Vaishnavism in Goa and its first math was established in Benaulim in the 13th century (shifted to Partagal, Canacona in 1475.) Salcete also had the largest number of temples…The first revolt against the Portuguese, some time before 1569, was staged by the people of Cola, the frontier village of Salcete. The second revolt in 1583 was again by the Salcetans of Assolna-Ambelim-Velim-Cuncolim. Several other revolts staged elsewhere in Goa can be traced to native Salcetans…of that Salcete, ancient Mathgram was the capital. At its heart was the Laxmi-Narayan temple, surrounded by its oldest zone of habitation. That temple gave way to the Holy Spirit Church. The oldest habitation zone was renamed ‘Church Square’,” writes  , in his book, ‘Soaring Spirit,’ which lends a historical perspective to the state’s commercial capital. 
 
 “The Laxmi Narayan temple,” Faleiro said, “was perhaps the oldest and most resplendent temple in Mathgram.” 
 
 “Towards its west was the temple tank followed by the mand, the symbol of the cultural identity of the village. It was situated on the western side of the present church grounds. It was also here that the most important institution of the village after the temple, the ganvkari (comunidade in the Portuguese era), met...Adjoining the temple square was another vital institution of the village: the bazaar (today’s Old Market). Thereafter began the paddy fields, which extended to the western boundary of the village, save the later day habitation pocket of Mungul. Together with the temple, the mand and the ganvkari, the market completed the central square of Mathgram,” writes Faleiro in the book. 
 
 It was from this square that Mathgram gradually grew and expanded into areas such as Tembi, Murmuti, Boxetollem, Borda, Fatorda, Mungul, Dando, Peda-Khareband and Navelim.
 
 “Though a tiny area as compared to the Margao of today, Mathgram was a self-sufficient village. Along what is today a road to the village hillock (Monte or Moti Dongor), were houses of the temple priests and some of the famed maths,” says Faleiro. 
 
 However, according to another historic account, Mathgram probably got its name on account of the nath-maths which were present before Vaisnavite maths were established. Historical texts point out to the shrines of   and Gorakhnath in Ravanfond. Nath yogis (jogis) who practised the various forms of yoga, made caves their abodes. Nath yogis are associated with caves in Goa as well. Historians point out that the rock-cut cave of Divar island and Pilar rock-cut cave are nath-panthi caves. Rock-cut caves found at Khandepar, Ishwarbhat, Kodar (all in the Ponda taluka), Salaulim canal caves in Sanguem taluka, and Aquem caves in Margao, are also believed to be Nath-panthi caves. Nath-panthis are believed to have practised and preached their creed for about 400 years in Goa until the establishment of the Portuguese rule.
 
 In the second half of the 16th century, religious persecution compelled the Mathagramasthas, as natives of Mathgram were called, to flee the village. 
 
 “The exodus did not occur at one go. Time and again edicts were issued that natives who refused to convert must leave, often at short notice. Houses and property must have either been abandoned or sold in distress. Almost the entire ganvkar population of Margao, save the few who converted, left the village. Mathgram was practically dead,” Faleiro writes. 
 
 New settlements replaced the place vacated by the ganvkars and Mathgram gradually transformed into Margao.
 
 The historic Camara Muncipal de Salsette building in the old market, Margao, which housed the municipality of Salcete, despite lying in a dilapidated condition, still shows glimpses of its old grandeur. Built in 1770, it stood majestically along the old market road near the city’s entrance, slowly disintegrating due to neglect and exposure to the elements after its abandonment about a century ago.
 
