AURANGABAD: Public works department (PWD) minister Eknath Shinde on Thursday assured farmers — affected by state government’s ambitious Rs 46,000 crore Mumbai-Nagpur Expressway project — that their   would be acquired by following due procedure and with their consent.

 Shinde, who represents Shiv Sena in the cabinet, was in the city to interact with farmers. It should be noted that party chief   has made it clear that he would not allow forcible acquisition of land for the E-way also known as   Mahamarg.
 
 The state government has already geared up its machinery, highlighting how good and beneficial is the project for as many as 24 districts, particularly those in Marathwada and Vidarbha.
 
 The officials concerned were perturbed over opposition to the expressway by farmers in different parts along the proposed 701-km route. Around 112-km of the proposed expressway, having a width of 120 meter, passes through   and Jalna districts.
 
 Earlier, senior officials claimed to have conducted over 1,500 meetings with farmers in 392 villages of 25 talukas in 10 districts, along the proposed expressway and got positive response.
 
 During his visit, the minister interacted with farmers from Palshi, Savangi, Kachhi Ghati, Krushnapur, Varud Qazi, Kolthan and Gangapur about the expressway and assured them that land acquisition process would be done after taking farmers into confidence.
 
 While batting for the project Shinde termed the Expressway to be a milestone in the development of the state and would prove beneficial to all specially the farmers. He urged the farmers to extend cooperation to complete the project. “The government is trying to understand the difficulties as well as expectations of the farmers and would further proceed only after taking their views into consideration. I urge the farmers to cooperate with the government in its endevaour to speed up the development of the state,” he said.
 
 Shinde also promised a group of farmers that he would direct the officials concerned to inspect a specific area in   taluka where some rich land with horticulture was getting affected.
 
 The officials would explore possibility if a little change could be made in the plan to save that land. However, he asserted the farmers need to observe patience and be cooperative with the government. He was accompanied by minister of state Arjun Khotkar and officials of the Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation. 
 
