Nagpur: The Vidarbha Irrigation Development Corporation (VIDC) stoutly defended continuation of contract with Tapi Presstrade Limited for Mokhabardi Lift Irrigation Scheme, despite the fact that it failed to complete stipulated works within June 30 deadline.

 In an affidavit before   bench of Bombay High Court, it informed that terminating the contract would led to further delay and also escalate the project cost.
 
 The affidavit was filed after court’s poser during last hearing on why VIDC extended the contract with Bhusawal-based firm when it failed to complete the work before June 30 deadline. Moreover, any new contractor would take time to settle down and even cost of defect couldn’t be fixed on it.
 
 VIDC clarified that no extension was granted beyond June 30 to the firm which completed 89% works so far. Till date, it recovered Rs2.76 crore from the towards delay.
 
 Tapi Presstrade was awarded contract for various works worth Rs224.37 crore through a tender, on turnkey basis. As less quantity of steel was required for laying pipelines for canals due to change in design, the VIDC recovered Rs16.96 crore from the contractor along with interest. It then approached arbitration tribunal which ruled in contractor’s favour on August 17, 2013, directing the VIDC to pay back recovered amount of Rs16.96 crore to it, along with 11.45% interest rate, which comes to be around Rs32 crore.
 
 The amount is to be paid from government’s coffers which is taxpayers’ money. It was opposed by the VIDC. Subsequently, the firm filed an intervention in irrigation scam PIL filed by Janmanch.
 
 “When it’s observed that the progress of work is not matching with schedule submitted by, liquidated damages were imposed as per the contract from April 1. Accordingly, maximum damages can be imposed as 0.1% per week of contract cost which worked out to Rs21.24 lakh (Rs3,03,440 per day),” the affidavit by VIDC executive director mentioned.
 
 “As per the contract, the total damages were not to exceed 5% of contract cost which is Rs11.21 crore. Till June 30, Rs2.76 crore is recovered from the running bills of the said contract. As the damages are imposed, there is no need to give any time extension to the contract. When the damages reaches prescribed limit, the contract will get terminated.” 
 
 The VIDC further pointed out that procurement and erection of most of mechanical and electrical equipment are in scope of contract, which if terminated, would cause issues regarding warranty of machineries, and valves.
 
 “In such situation, during the testing and commissioning, getting vendor for the damaged or dysfunctional parts will be a difficult, time consuming and expensive. Even project commissioning would be delayed by at least a year due to time required for termination of the current contract and fixing of new contract for balance work involving finalization of new budgetary offers for the remaining works, estimation, tendering and execution.”
 
 VIDC added that if remaining work is planned through a new agency, it will be difficult to fix responsibility of defect and liabilities of the executed work. “In view of these difficulties, it’s required to complete balance work with the same agency. Looking at the enormity of work and technical aspects, the termination of contract at this stage would delay the completion. The fine per day is already running against the contractor, which would be a concern and it may try to complete the work at earliest. No time extension is given to the contractor beyond the terms of contract in violation of HC orders, the VIDC affidavit mentioned.
 
 FIR against VIDC, contractors in Nerla irri scheme
 
 The anti-corruption bureau (ACB) informed HC that two more FIRs are lodged against contractors in Rs70,000 irrigation crore scam, thus taking total number of complaints to four. Its Gondia branch registered an FIR against five VIDC officials and two contractors for alleged irregularities and misuse of official position while working on the Nerla (Paghora) Lift Irrigation project on April 30. They collectively caused a loss of Rs1,549.99 lakh to the exchequer from September 28, 2006 to April 30 this year. 
 
 The ACB accused VIDC officials — Prabhakar Morghade, Shyam Ambulkar, Dilip Pohekar, Sopan Suryawanshi, and Rohidas Langde — of granting undue favours to the contractors — Bollinenni Ramarao and Rami Reddy — with a view to benefit them. It accused them of hatching a criminal conspiracy and caused losses to the exchequer. All these accused persons were booked under Section 13 (1) and 13(2) of Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, and Sections 420 and 120(B) of IPC.
 
 
