MUMBAI: March 31 will always be a special day for Dadar resident Vidhula Bhatt as her son Viraj took, for the first time, a circuitous flight from Varanasi to Kolkata to Bengaluru. Viraj isn't a teenager, but all of 29 years old. What is different about him is the fact that he has autism and is among the few with the disorder who has a steady job.

 “He works with   in Bengaluru and his seniors are happy with his work,“ said Vidhula.
 
 Autism is a neurological disorder characterized by uneven development and poor social skills, among others. So while Viraj is a self-taught computer geek, he had trouble picking up lessons at school.
 
 As Indian workplaces seem to be warming up to people with autism, Viraj isn't the only one. Juhu resident Aarti Nagarkar (30) was recently amongst the winners of a cooking competition -- 'The Cook For Change Challenge' -- organized by the Veruschka Foundation and judged by chef   of the   chain of restaurants. “She and the other winners go for once a-month training session to the chain's Andheri office to learn new recipes and dishes,“ said her mother Sushma Nagarkar. At the end of these training sessions, she hopes that there will be an internship for Aarti and others.
 
 Kapoor, who has been a supporter of the  , (FFA) a parents' support group, said he has been offering short stints at his TV shows and workshops as well as internships to people with autism. “I have run the Mumbai Marathon for them for 10 years now. My support will be permanent,“ he said.
 On the occasion of   on Sunday, a press release sent by FFA said that parents are working to create job opportunities for young adults with autism. “FFA has been engaging with various organizations such as Kshitij, Anchorage, Arpan, Sols Arc, Together Foundation, Yellow Chilli restaurants to ensure opportunities for young adults beyond their schooling years,“ the press release said.
 
 As autism is a spectrum disorder (some persons have very high IQ and are called savants), FFA members have either created job opportunities or are working towards it in international companies like J P Morgan and SAP.
 
 “JP Morgan has offered internships to two Mumbai youngsters with autism. After training, they stand a chance of getting absorbed in the company ,“ said Chitra Iyer of FFA.
 
 In Delhi, Merry Barua of Action for Autism said the Lemon Grass chain of hotels had employed two persons with autism.“One is in the housekeeping and another in the café,“ she said, adding that more companies need to open up. In the West, companies like Microsoft employ autistic persons; some firms say they are focused, committed and less likely to leave after learning the job (autistic people like structured activities that follow a pattern).
 So what has brought about this change? Parul Kumtha, a parent and FFA founder, believes it is opportunity to study that has helped. “Previously , our children could never complete a degree as they were never offered concessions. But now concessions are offered right up to degree level,“ she said. As persons with autism pick up degrees and skills, they are ready to be employed, she added.
 
 Barua said there is a still a long way to go. “In the West, companies have a policy to hire autistic persons, but the same company here won't do that,“ she said.
 
