NEW DELHI: People pay scant attention to politicians   their own praises, but this is one occasion when a politician hopes his music, like the Pied Piper of lore, will hypnotise the electorate into pressing the button beside the lotus symbol on the voting machines.   is not your self-delusional croaker; he is known as a singer of some accomplishment among Bhojpuri movie goers.

 But more than a purveyor of entertainment, the Delhi BJP chief would want to see himself as a mythical Siren, luring his rivals,   of   and Arvind Kejriwal of AAP, to their ruin in the Delhi municipal polls a month from now.
 
 “Voters connect well with messages sent through music,” explained Tiwari on Friday. “I will, therefore, compose and sing songs to win the voters’ trust.” While it may be a singularly striking moment for his party in the capital, Tiwari has actually plied his trade during the assembly polls in Bihar in 2015 and in UP recently.
 
 Before he entered active politics, acting, singing and music direction kept Tiwari occupied as the star of over 90 Bhojpuri films. His election as MP from North-East Delhi in 2014 may have cut into his musical pursuits, but for sure democracy hasn’t robbed his vocal chords of resonance.
 
 “No agency can match our president’s singing,” enthused Delhi BJP media-in-charge Praveen Shankar Kapoor, who would otherwise have outsourced the campaign music to external parties. Tiwari has already mobilised his team of musicians. Among unlikely choral subjects will be the UP election victory, Kejriwal’s ‘misrule’ and lack of leadership in Congress. An associate said Tiwari will start recording after the March 19 rally at Ramlila Maidan, and brightly offered a probable item number: Jo Dilli se pyar kare meri usse yaari hai, Congress-AAP ki nahi, fir se BJP ki bari hai.
 
 So complacent is the party now that the chief himself is clearing his throat that Delhi BJP vice-president Tilak Raj Kataria admitted the publicity wing, which usually deals with the campaign’s music needs, hasn’t even been formed. “Nothing is better than Tiwari’s songs in elections,” he said, betraying just a tiny bit of sycophancy more than required to appreciate his boss’s singing abilities.
 
 And predictably enough, his colleague Rajesh Bhatia too chimed in to assert that no singer — yes, no one — could connect with Delhi’s voters better than Tiwari.
 
 Well, come counting day on April 25, and BJP can discover whether Tiwari has sung all his way to the vote bank.
 
