BATHINDA: Congress vice president   took on Prime Minister   at an election rally in Rama town of Talwandi Sabo assembly constituency on Friday, saying that the BJP leader had “embraced the corrupt Badals” despite making claims of ending corruption.

 Rahul claimed that the PM was practising a “politics of dishonesty”, and was befooling people in the name of ending corruption and ensuring ‘achhe din”. “On gaining power, Modi had claimed that he would end corruption. Now he is embracing Punjab chief minister Parkash Singh Badal and deputy chief minister Sukhbir Singh Badal, who are the most corrupt. This shows that the PM is only befooling people. People of Punjab should not fall prey to Modi’s falsehood,” he said.
 
 Rahul accused the Badals of usurping every business, “right from transportation to sand and to cable, in the state”. He cited the first Sikh master, Guru Nanak Dev, in taking on Badals. “Our Sikh guru had propagated the concept of giving as he believed in ‘tera’ (yours), which also denotes the number 13. But, Badals believe in ‘mera’ (mine). By laying claim on everything, Badals have usurped such huge wealth that they do not sleep till they earn Rs 100 crore every day,” he said.
 
 He said if Congress formed the government in Punjab, they would make Badals to pay for their misdeeds and their “ill-gotten” money would be unearthed.
 
 Taking on Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Rahul declared   president Captain Amarinder Singh as the party’s CM candidate in the state. “We believe in the concept that Punjab is of Punjabis. For the Punjabis, a true Punjabi will be our CM but the AAP wants some outsider to rule Punjab if it wins.”
 
 He said AAP’s top leadership was from outside Punjab as Arvind Kejriwal was from Haryana and its Punjab affairs in charge Sanjay Singh was from Uttar Pradesh (UP). “Punjabis never will tolerate any outsiders to rule the state and will not vote for AAP,” he said.
 
 He said only Kejriwal’s writ ran large in AAP. “In Congress, Amarinder Singh will be our CM, but will not be a dictator like Kejriwal. We will run the state in consultation with the people and party leaders,” said Rahul.
 
 Former finance minister and Congress’s Bathinda Urban candidate   also called Badals as the most corrupt. Talwandi Sabo candidate Khushbaz Singh Jattana also addressed the rally.
 
 
