NEW DELHI:   is playing host to a  . Over the next two days, Delhiites would get to sample the vibrant culture of  , particularly its artistic and culinary traditions. 

  The three-day festival ‘Odisha Parba’ kicked off on Saturday at August Kranti Udyan ‘A’, India Gate lawns. With over 500 artists and performers, the event will celebrate the cultural heritage of the state.
 
 Organised by the Odia Samaj in Delhi, the venue is situated right opposite the war-memorial. Gigantic art installations of applique work and replicas of the three chariots of Jagannath Dham are situated at the entrance. Long queue was seen outside the venue soon after the event started at 5pm with most crowding around the folk performances. Sand artist Sudarsan Pattnaik’s art structure was another major halt for the people apart from the food stalls. 
 
 Finance minister Arun Jaitley and the minister of state for petroleum and natural gas Dharmendra Pradhan and Supreme Court judge Dipak Mishra were the guests of honour at the inaugural event held on Saturday. 
 
 The event also showcased an exhibition ‘Atma Shakti’, which featured the historical significance of the state with pictorial representations of the main attractions such as the rock carvings at the Konark Temple or interesting facts about the significance of its coastline or diamond mining at Odisha.
 
 Iti Padma, a visitor who was at the festival with her family said, “I came to witness the rare dance form, which is performed in only one district of the state. People are mostly unaware of the rich culture of our state.”
 
 Pattnaik along with his team of eight students created a colourful structure of the face of Lord Jagannath surrounded by pictures of the sea to give it an illusionary effect of a beach. “The beaches of Odisha plays a pivotal role in attracting tourists and the identity of the state is often associated with its long coastline. My creation today is the pride and main attraction of my state- our prime deity,” said Pattnaik. He also plans to organise a workshop on Sunday and showcase his skills in front of a live audience.
 
 Over 45 troupes of artistes will perform folk dance, recitals and songs both on and off-stage. “Artists have come from 22 districts and will perform different kinds of art forms like warrior, acrobatics and classical dance forms like Odissi. Each performance has a cultural significance. Some are meant for entertainment while others are ritualistic,” said Srinivas Ghatuary, an Odissi dancer and member of cultural committee at the festival. 
 
 The handloom stalls had an assortment of the famous handicrafts of the state like applique work on clothes and decorative items, brass sculptures as well as a live weaving stall where Padmashree winner Surendra Meher weaved traditional ikat design as the onlookers watched.
 
 The array of food stalls offered traditional Odisha delicacies. From holy besan ke ladoo and suji kakda to an assortment of non-veg delicacies, were all major attractions. 
 
 “I was e amazed to see the dance form ‘Gotipua’ where little boys are dressed like women and performing acrobatics as a part of their performance,” said Abdul Fahim, a tourist from Kerala.
 
 
