THANE: Civic officials reporting late to office will have to forego a part of their   as the   Municipal Corporation ( ) will now refer to the bio-metric   system while calculating their presence at work.

 The monitoring will start from this month and employees who reported late to work in the first fortnight could possibly lose a part of their March salary depending on their frequency of delays. The quantum of salary cuts is being explored by the TMC. 
 
 The implementation of the system will be done for the 800 plus staff at the headquarters first and soon cover the entire civic workforce of 9,000, including those deployed at the various ward offices, hospitals, etc. 
 
 The system is being strictly implemented on the orders of a senior civic official, who has taken note of frequent complaints from activists and residents who lamented that several clerks and mid-level officers arrived late to work or remained missing from their departments. 
 
 The hi-tech system that daily records the time of reporting and exit from work of each employee was installed at the headquarters in December 2009 but wasn’t being supervised. The system involves a unit that records the thumb impression and also validates the face of the user. The machines identifies the employee using the thumb impression and face that are exclusive and difficult for miscreants to manipulate. 
 
 Officials confirmed that several employees have not taken the office timings seriously with many reporting late by as much as an hour. Resultantly, not only does the work pendency accumulate but also residents face inconvenience waiting for the officers to arrive. 
 
 “Nearly 25 per cent of the staff is likely to lose a part of their monthly salary this month,” said an official. 
 
 The   attendance   was implemented during the tenure of former civic chief Nandkumar Jantre after he realized several staffers came late to work exploiting the traditional system of signing a muster for attendance. 
 
 Jantre started the biometric attendance system and also warned that monthly salary will not be issued to those staffers who refuse to use the machines to register their presence at work.
 
 The civic department will, however, consider schedules of officials whose profiles involve field work, including engineers, drivers, etc. 
 
 The time schedule for each employee has already been fixed based on their profile and the same will be considered while recording their respective attendance for the month, explained a civic official.
 
 
