Nagpur: A week before President Ram Nath Kovind’s scheduled day-long visit here, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation has rolled out a major road re-paving programme on routes from where his convoy is likely to pass. Senior NMC officials did not reveal how much money was being spent to re-do the selected roads or how the cash-strapped civic body would be raising the finances. A senior NMC official only said that usually these projects are funded through the Road Maintenance Fund.  “We were concerned about the bumpy surfaces in many of areas of the city. So we had them on our to-do list,” he said. Last week, the district administration received confirmation about Kovind’s scheduled arrival in Nagpur on September 22 when he will inaugurate the Suresh Bhat auditorium, visit Deekshabhoomi and inaugurate a vipassana centre in the Dragon Palace at Kamptee. Municipal commissioner Ashwin Mudgal and deputy commissioner of police (traffic) Ravindrasinh Pardeshi along with senior NMC officials and traffic cops inspected all the routes which may be used by the President to travel to these spots. “After our inspection, we requested the NMC to ensure pothole-free roads for the President,” Pardeshi told TOI. Subsequently, on Wednesday, Mudgal convened a meeting of NMC officials to review the civic body’s preparedness. He has also issued directives for repaving several roads. Among these are the corridor between the airport to Ajni Chowk and Rahate Colony T-point to Ajni Flyover to Medical Square roundabout to Ashok Chowk from where he is expected to visit Reshmibagh. As the President’s route is a secret, the NMC will also repair the Great Nag Road patch from Mokshadham Chowk to Baidyanath Chowk, which is one of the worst patches in the city. The official said other roads to be repaved include Great Nag Road and roads near Deeksha Bhoomi and some patches of Kamptee road including the pothole riddled Automotive Square. The patchwork of Wardha Road and Kamptee Road too are in progress. The DCP, however, expressed concern over condition of roads alongside Metro Rail work on Wardha Road and in front of Ajni Railway Station. “We have asked Metro Rail to clear its belongings on the roads and also repair bad patches where its works are being carried out,” he said.