JAIPUR: The third anniversary celebrations of the Vasundhara Raje government concluded on Saturday with a rally of the party’s booth-level workers in Jaipur.

 The rally was to be addressed by chief minister Raje who had to skip the meeting due to a throat infection. The state   seemed all geared up to step into the election mode, emphasising on the need to propagate its work and reaching out at the masses. The event marked the conclusion of the third anniversary celebrations, which were launched on December 13 and as part of which, Raje had addressed several public rallies across the state.
 
 From the surgical strike in Pakistan to demonetisation, the senior BJP leaders from the dais defended every move; along with presenting a report card on the work done back home during the past three years. The BJP leaders also used the platform to lash out at the Opposition.
 
 Speaking on the occasion, Union minister of state for information and broadcasting Rajyavardhan Rathore said decisive governments were working in both state and Centre which would benefit the voters. “It was   government who had conducted surgical strikes in Pakistan. We targeted them in their country and then announced to the world that we had indeed conducted a surgical strike,’’ he said. He also talked about the Modi government working towards introducing ‘one country, one tax’.
 
 Defending the much-debated demonetisation, Union minister of state for finance and corporate affairs   claimed that it was a revolution and a bold decision of the PM. 
 
 “This move will end terrorism, corruption and address the issue of black money. It will also bring the country’s GDP in double-digits,’’ he said.
 
 Presenting a report card, state BJP party president Ashok Parnami on Saturday claimed that over 70% of the manifesto promises has been fulfilled. Talking about the achievements of his government, Parnami said, “We had promised 15 lakh jobs in the manifesto and I am glad to say that 11 lakh jobs have been provided in the private sector under the skill development and livelihood programme.’’ 
 
 Listing out several of its works, he claimed that 14,787 km of roads had been constructed in the last three years against 12,554 km constructed by the previous Congress government in its five year tenure.
 
 The rally was also addressed by senior cabinet minister Gulabchand Kataria and others. “These rallies are not celebrations but a platform for us to present our report card,’’ said Kataria.
 
 A large number of party workers from party’s Jaipur City and rural units had gathered at the venue, along with all MLAs from Jaipur district except for rebel MLA Ghanshyam Tiwai, who had specially been invited to the event.
 
 
