Model-turned-actor   caught the industry's eye with his riveting performance in his debut Kannada movie,  . The success of the movie — which featured stars such as  , Ravichandran and   — has catapulted Kabir into a different league and the actor is now inundated with offers —mostly characters with grey shades.

 Among them is Uthparsha, a movie directed  , the king of suspense thrillers, in which Kabir will be essaying a negative character.
 
 “Hebbuli has gone to become a landmark film in Sandalwood. Sudeep was playing a commando for the first time on screen. My performance in the film was also appreciated by the industry and audiences alike. This is the best gift. Sharing the screen with Sudeep has made people sit up and take note of my performance. Thanks to that, I have now signed a film with Sunil Kumar Desai,“ Kabir told Bangalore Mirror.
 
 Kabir has previously appeared in Telugu and Tamil films. After making his debut the Telugu film Jil in 2015, Kabir went on star with superstars like Ajith in Vedalam and   in  . “I have done many films in the South. But I am very excited about the new movie with Sunil Kumar Desai. In this movie, I will the lead antagonist, not one of the many villains.I was very impressed with the story,“ he said.
 
 
  
 
 According to a source, Kabir had almost been roped in for Puneeth Rajkumar-starrer Anjani Putra directed by Harsha. However, things didn't go as expected.
 
 “The contract was cancelled at the last moment because of date issues. Such things happen. I will wait for a better opportunity to work with Puneeth sir. For now, I am just delighted that the audiences have accepted a newcomer like me. The response has been overwhelming and it makes me feel great. After Hebbuli fans have been asking me to act with Puneeth and Sudeep,“ he said.
 
 Kabir's will start shooting for Uthparsha later this month. The film also features Dhansika of   fame, and Prabhakar of   fame in important roles. The bilingual film will be made in Kannada and Telugu.
 
