Lucknow: Displaying Rohit Vemula’s face in its profile photo the next plan of   is to hold a protest against UP government outside Uttar Pradesh Bhawan in Delhi on Saturday. Support is pouring from all over the country on Bhim Army’s Facebook page. 

 Much before violent clashes and unruly protests marred the streets of  , jibes were being traded over Facebook and WhatsApp between Dalits and Thakurs, the two caste groups which catapulted the western UP district to infamy.
 
 Despite setting up social media laboratories, different law enforcement agencies of UP police failed to sense the outrage which kept building on social media for a year. And with recurrent violence, Saharanpur was left simmering for more than a fortnight. 
 
 Since May 9, 10 FIRs against administrators of scores of Facebook and WhatsApp accounts that have been inciting one community against another. Mostly members of Bhim Army have remained at the receiving end.
 
 On Friday, a youth identified as Nitin was arrested for posting a series of provocative posts. Five others have been arrested since May 9 for similar offences and apart from IT Act, police have also pressed IPC sections 505 (1C) and 505 (2). 
 
 SSP Saharanpur Subhash Chandra Dubey said activities of Bhim Army had gone unnoticed for a long time. “Bhim Army members used Facebook and WhatsApp actively to further their intentions in the district for more than a year. Some of their posts were extremely offensive and led to a lot of resentment among the other group. Yes, brewing tension on social media should have been tracked much earlier and we paid the price for not doing so,” admitted Dubey, who took over as district police chief of Saharanpur in April.
 
 The way Bhim Army managed to mobilise support in a short span forced DGP office to examine the matter. It was noticed that Bhim Sena members particularly liked posting short videos with strong message asking others to unite for the cause. 
 
 Public relations officer of UP police, additional superintendent Rahul Srivastava said, “In the past three days, we have taken down close to 380 screenshots of disturbing messages which were exchanged between Dalits and Thakurs on social media against each other. It is clear that the two sides have been baying for each other’s blood. The incident will be treated like a case study and officers will be asked to preempt such situations by monitoring social media closely in their districts.” 
 
 Besides 10 cases registered under IT Act, Saharanpur police have lodged 14 other FIRs and have arrested 36 persons. In the past one week, 25 houses have been burnt down, 23 vehicles have been torched, several buses have been damaged and a lot of blood spilled on the ground. But the gap between the two sides is only widening.
 
 
