GAYA: In a somewhat debatable display of money power in the cash-starved Bodh Gaya city,   organisers on Thursday claimed that Rs 5 crore in cash, all in Rs 2,000 denomination, was distributed among 25,000 monks participating in the ongoing Buddhist religious event. Kalchakra spokesperson Tenzing, however, refused to reveal the source of cash.

 Sources, however, said actual cash recipients were only 10,000, and not 25,000 as claimed by the organisers.
 
 Bhadant Pragyashil, former chief priest of Mahabodhi Temple and leader of the Ambedkarites Buddhists, has demanded an inquiry into the source of the post demonetisation cash. Ambedkarite Buddhists are boycotting Kalchakra as, according to Pragyashil, being a godless religion, there was no place for tantric rituals in Buddhism. The prayers aim at infusing Buddha traits in ordinary mortals through a complex process having tantric elements.
 
 The event organisers have also been accused of presenting a highly inflated figure about the number of prayer participants. “The organisers have claimed that 2 lakh devotees are participating in the event. Bodh Gaya’s total population is about 45,000. How a small place like Bodh Gaya accommodates people nearly five times its population defies logic,” said Bhadant Anand, president of the All India Monks’ Association. Anand is also a former member of the Mahabodhi Temple Management Committee.
 
 The number of registered participants, as communicated to district officials by the organisers, is 38,000. However, less than 5,000 form C, a mandatory requirement for foreigners, has been submitted in the SSP’s office. Tibetan refugees are not required to submit form C.
 
 The 50 odd hotels and guesthouses of Bodh Gaya can, at the most, accommodate 7,500 persons. Another 10,000 can be accommodated in the monasteries. The total capacity of the tent cities developed on the Magadh University campus and riverside road is 15,000. At the most, 5,000 pilgrims may be staying as paying guests. These figures roughly match the 38,000 registered participants.
 
 
