HYDERABAD: Contrary to the impression that enforcement is not so intensive in Old City due to   when compared to the new city i.e. Secunderabad, the former has grabbed the dubious honour of recording the highest number of cases being booked for   of the   (traffic rules) in the first two months of this calendar year.

 After a considerable lull in booking of cases for nearly two months in all parts of the city  , motorists in Old City topped the chart in various categories of violations in the new year. Be it triple riding, talking on cell phone while driving, driving without number plate, minors driving vehicles or not wearing helmets, more number of cases have been booked in Old City compared to those booked in areas in and around Secunderabad this year.
 
 Traffic cops admitted that an intensified enforcement was carried out with more number of special   in Old City i.e, south zone in police parlance, compared to north zone or the police stations limits in and around Secunderabad. They also hastened to add that less number of cases being registered in Secunderabad compared to Old City should not be viewed as motorists in the new city being more disciplined. “Booking of cases is a dynamic phenomenon. There is no set time during which motorists violate rules. Even during special drives conducted simultaneously in old and new city, there have been fluctuations. Sometimes, more number of cases get booked in Old City while motorists plying in Secunderabad areas score high on other days. Also, a resident of new city may be driving a vehicle in Old City and gets booked, and similarly, an Old City resident may get booked for violating a rule in the new city,“ said a senior traffic cop.
 
 However, experts said enforcement needs to be improved both in Old City and other parts of the state capital. “Counselling, personality development, personal safety and social responsibility classes should be conducted for repeat violators. Enforcement, education and engineering (3 Es) should be improved among motorists in the city as well as the state level. Political will is needed in Old City and other parts of Greater Hyderabad to enforce discipline among the motorists,' said Vinod Kumar Kanumala, Chief Functionary of Indian Federation of Road Safety .
 
 When contacted, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Traffic)   told TOI that the traffic police and school education departments have already held several meetings to introduce road safety as a subject in school curriculum
 
