HYDERABAD: To boost tourism and exploit commercially potential areas, the Telangana government is coming up with `heliports' in various locations in state. These have been proposed at Dundigal, Hakimpet, Nadirgul in Hyderabad, Basanthnagar in Karimnagar, Nagarjunasagar, Nalgonda, Alair (Yadagirigutta), Warangal and Kagaznagar (Sirpur). The state is also planning to develop new greenfield airports at Zakranpally, Nizamabad, National Investment & Manufacturing Zone (NIMZ) at Zaheerabad.

 “The state government has submitted the proposals to ministry of civil aviation under Regional Connectivity Scheme for 10 unserved airports. These can be converted into full-fledged airports in future,“ V N   , director (aviation) of infrastructure and investment department told TOI.
 
 Officials say since air traffic is on rise, people can avail heliservices. For instance, the state government has taken up development of Yadagirigutta temple and a heliport is being proposed at Alair. Similarly , Nagarjunasagar in Nalgonda district has always been a tourist spot.Kagaznagar and NIMZ are industrial areas where individuals can avail of the facility, apart from VIPs.
 
 After formation of the state, the government decided to develop two airports at   district and Warangal. Land acquisition for airports has already begun. For Warangal airport, a MOU was signed with   for development.
 
 AAI informed that apart from existing 748 acres land, it requires another 438 acres for the airport. And this is in acquisition stage. Similarly , land for Kothagudem-Bhadadri airport was identified and sent for approval to ministry of civil aviation. RITES Limited has submitted a pre-feasibility report for development of the airport at Kothagudem and topographic survey was also completed, said officials. “Clearances from forest department are required as a portion of land for greenfield airport is nestled in reserved forests. The government earmarked Rs 1.09 crore for getting airport clearances,“ a senior official of industries department said.
 
 To encourage regional connectivity, air force operators should be given concessions like reduction of VAT to one per cent, free land, security and fire services, apart from electricity and water at concessional rates and viability gap funding up to 20%, sources said.
 
