AGARTALA:   in the state continue to suffer on the second day of a   by doctors' bodies. The protest has been launched against the attack on   at the Gandacherra sub-divisional hospital allegedly by CPM cadres on Saturday. 

 Professional bodies of doctors held demonstrations on Monday in all government hospitals across the state, demanding arrest of the accused, a framework to ensure security of health workers and better services at hospitals.
 
 "I was badly beaten up at the hospital. They threatened to kill me unless I left the place immediately. I didn't know what my fault was. Earlier in the day, I had received a call from local CPM MLA Lalit Tripura requesting an ambulance to pick up a patient. An ambulance was sent immediately, but there was no response from the other side. Later, they attacked me, accusing the hospital of not responding to the call," said Soumen Sarkar, one of the doctors who was attacked. 
 
 Police said the two accused - Prasanta Kapali (35) and Krishna Das (40) - have been on the run since the incident.
 
 Health minister Badal Choudhury said doctor organizations had met him and police have been asked to arrest the accused. "The government will not tolerate any kind of violence and unlawful activity in public establishments. Police have been asked to act as per the law, without considering any political affiliation," he added.
 
 The incident has sparked off a huge row, with senior doctors accusing the CPM government of not doing enough for medical establishments in the state. Besides safety concerns, even basic services have not been provided for, the doctors claimed. Chief minister Sarkar has utterly failed to provide the required infrastructure and adequate doctors with diagnostic facilities to the hospitals. The same thing is in practice when it comes to teachers and other service providers," said senior physician Ashok Sinha.
 
 Meanwhile, interns at Tripura Medical College continued their 'cease work' demanding a higher monthly stipend of Rs 18,000 - at par with students of the government-run   - for the third consecutive day on Tuesday.
 
 
