Whether India's nominal   rate prompts the central bank to lower   rates or not, India's high real   sooner or later will force its hand, with inflation dipping to a record low of 1.54 per cent in June. The   will announce its bi-monthly policy on August 2.
 
  The nominal rate refers to the rate before adjustment for inflation. The real rate is the nominal rate minus inflation.
  
  India has the second highest real interest rates in the world among 10 global regions including emerging markets,   and United States since November 2001, when it recorded 5.02 per cent, show data from ET Intelligence group. The country is likely to continue to at tract foreign flows which could lead to lower market rates, nudging market dynamics.
  
  "India's positive real rates are currently highest within the Asian region and also above RBI's preferred range of 1.5-2.0 per cent," said Kaushik Das, India chief economist, Deutsche Bank. "Therefore, the central bank can easily justify a quarter percent   cut in the August bi-monthly policy without having to worry much about financial market and rupee stability."
  
  There are different ways to calculate real interest rates. For example, you can derive at the same by subtracting the rate of retail inflation from one-year Treasury bill, shortterm sovereign papers. Sometimes, the central bank takes estimated future inflation instead of the current gauge, while some market participants take the policyrepo rate in lieu of T-bill.
  
  Brazil yields a real rate of 5.47 per cent, while India offers near 5 per cent, show data from by Edelweiss Finance.Among Asian peers, China has 1.94 per cent and Indonesia 1.65 per cent, according to Edelweiss.
  
  The   (  Committee) will take note of the high real interest rates of late," said Saugata Bhattacharya, chief economist,  . "One offshoot is that this might be an important factor triggering investment decisions for overseas investors. Even if retail inflation rises by the year end, it will still be attractive enough to woo overseas funds, particularly with consequent expectations of rate cuts.
  
  "So, even with lower rates, the continued inflows of foreign capital is likely to boost domestic savings to somewhat offset the impact of rate cuts," Bhattacharya said.
