MUMBAI: After the   informed the   ( ) that the ground opposite   in south Mumbai is not just restricted to the club’s members, the civic body on Friday put up a board stating that the space is open for general public.

 Referring to the collector’s letter dated April 5, 2017, the notice on the board—which is in Marathi—reads that “As informed by the collector, the said ground is open for use by common public. Citizens can use this ground for sporting activities.” The collector’s letter to the BMC had stated that the lease agreement for the ground with the state had expired and a decision on its renewal is pending with the government. “Bombay Gymkhana was served a notice on July 16, 2016, for breach of terms and conditions. On August 11, 2016, it replied that the ground was open to public. This is being brought to your notice,” stated the letter.
 
 However, the club, even before the BMC put up the notice board, had placed a board stating the the gymkhana’s lease condition regarding the ground. The club’s notice reads, “The lessee will not exclude the public from the demised land when not in the actual use of the members of the gymkhana for playing of games or for athletic sports or functions in connection therewith except the turf and watered cricket pitches from where the public is excluded.” The BMC, however, called the gymkhana’s notice ‘ambiguous’. “Firstly, the board is in English and the text also is very ambiguous. Therefore, the BMC decided to go ahead and put up a board taking forward the Mumbai collector’s reply letter,” said a civic official.
 
 Meanwhile, after losing its parking on a footpath outside the club as its permission ended on July 15, 2016, it is now learned that the gymkhana authorities have approached the BMC seeking parking space on MG road under the BMC’s new pay-and-park scheme. “Gymkhana authorities have informed us that they are ready to pay charges under the new scheme. We would, however, need a go-ahead from the traffic police before assigning the space to the gymkhana,” said a civic official.
 
 
