New Delhi: The Supreme Court’s ban on sale of liquor at vends and hotels within 500 metres of national and state highways hit the hospitality hub of   particularly hard. On Saturday, the implementation of the court order left customers in Aerocity, located on National Highway 48, with no access to alcohol.

 “Due to the guidelines imposed by the Supreme Court, we regret to inform you that we won’t be able to serve liquor at any of our outlets till further notice,” said a board at Pullman Hotel. Customers were similarly informed about the unavailability of alcohol at all the marquee luxury hotels and fine-dining restaurants in Aerocity.
 
 And while there was no option other than to follow the court orders on Saturday, many wondered how a commercial complex planned precisely to provide the best of hospitality to global flyers, convention participants and the well-heeled city residents could do without liquor on its premises. Aerocity has already become a popular destination for these sections, helped both by its nearness to the airport and highway as well as by the presence of the world’s best known hotel and restaurant chains.
 
 Some hotels remained hopeful of alternative arrangements being worked out. Ranjan Malakar, general manager of the Holiday Inn, said “We are awaiting clarity on how the 500-metre distance will be measured while implementing this ruling and whether we will eventually come under its purview.”
 
 Anup Joseph, a 34-year old cinematographer visiting the capital and disappointed at not being able to have a drink, similarly hoped for a change. “While liquor outlets outside city limits can certainly be restricted, within the metropolis itself there should be more leniency, especially in complexes like these meant to be entertainment and fine-dining destinations.”
 
 Many restaurants located along NH48 complained that they were not given time to clear their stocks. “It is tough for bars and restaurants to get rid of their alcohol inventory so quickly,” pointed out Kulpati Tripathi, manager of restaurant-cum-bar Classic Diplomat. “In addition, our customer base has been affected drastically and a lot of livelihoods will be affected by his move.”
 
