With barely 10 days to go for the BMC elections,   in an interview to TOIsaid the Modi wave has receded and the   will break the spell the BJP has cast on voters. “The results will give a lot of people in the city a reality check,“ said the 56-year-old Thackeray on Saturday at his 'Matoshree' residence. He spoke on a range of issues and cleared the air on the issue of corruption and BJP's demand for transparency in Asia's richest civic body. Excerpts:

 
 
 A: I supported BJP in forming the state government without making many demands becau se after many years the state and Centre were going to be free from Congress rule, and I too wanted that. But BJP's behaviour with us for the last two years over seat-sharing in other civic elections was where the discord started. The final blow came when they demanded 114 seats for BMC. They have nothing to show as their work in Mumbai, they have been piggybacking on us. The only commonality between Shiv Sena and BJP was the issue of Hindutva, which too they have moved away from by forging an alliance with MIM in nagar panchayat polls. Fadnavis is very courageous to be making allegations of corruption against himself. The BMC's administration is appointed by the CM, and if he is calling them corrupt, that means he is indirectly calling himself corrupt.
 
 
 
 A: I am not praising anyone, just stating facts. I truly believe   is a gentleman. We too have criticized him for not talking on issues, but we never said he is a cheat or a thug. So when Modi said Singh was bathing with a raincoat on, we said Modi has made bubbles without (using) any soap. Under the current government there is no democracy . If we criticize them they will label us `deshdrohi'. Fadnavis was comparing Mumbai with Patna because they didn't get the seats they demanded; had we given them seats, Mumbai would have become New York or London. They talk about acche din, all I am asking is when will acche din come?
 
 
 
 
 A: I myself am searching for an answer to this question. There is no competition and as far as BJP is concerned, Fadnavis has made my work easy by making allegations of corruption against himself and his chosen officials. Even traditional voters of BJP like industrialists and traders will not vote for them as they are still suffering from the notebandi shock.
 
 
 
 A: All the projects you mentioned are pending for want of permissions from the Centre. The Fadnavis-led state government is also blocking permissions for some of our projects. So far as quality of roads is concerned, we have some of the best stretches of roads, the ones that are poor are because they have been dug up by different agencies for work.
 
 
 
 A: BMC's functioning has been transparent for years. Journalists are allowed to attend standing committee meetings. Notings by municipal commissioner on files are put up online. I am going to demand that cabinet meetings should be open for journalists, leader of opposition and Lokayukta. Fadnavis should also make it mandatory for all ministers and secretaries to put up their notings on each file online.
 
