BENGALURU: Actor 
  is all set to be firmed up by July-end, said his brother Satyanarayana Rao Gaikwad who resides in Bengaluru.

 “It is the people’s wish that   should enter politics. He has just ended the first round of consultation with his fans and well-wishers who were 
  ,” said Satyanarayana, insisting the star’s political foray was imminent.
 
 Satyanarayana’s remarks come in the wake of the actor’s address to fans recently. While there was 
  , there were enough innuendos to create a buzz in political circles. The actor said there were good politicians in Tamil Nadu, but the “system was rotten”. He urged his fans to help clean up the system and be prepared for “battle”.
 
 Rajini met fans from 15 districts in Tamil Nadu from May 15 to 19. The consultation was given a break for the launch of 
  , and Satyanarayana Rao said a few more rounds of consultations would be held in June and July before Rajini comes out with a formal announcement.
 
 “He wants to meet as many fans as possible before firming up his plans. With the response being overwhelming, the outcome would be hopefully positive and Tamil Nadu will usher in a new era in politics,” said Satyanarayana.
 
 
 
 
 He said the main aim behind the move to enter politics was Rajini’s intent to cleanse corruption in public life.“The government’s coffers are plush with money, but it is not reaching the poor while welfare schemes are not benefiting the needy,” Satyanarayana added.
 
 While the   seems to have been wooing Rajini and nudging him to join the party, Satyanarayana Rao said his brother prefers to float his own   and may not join hands with any. The name and the structure of the party were being worked out, Rajini’s brother added.
 
 BJP leaders say they are still hopeful of taking Rajinikanth into their party fold. “The theme of Rajini’s politics is going to be anti-corruption and other than BJP no party in Tamil Nadu is suitable to his theme,” said BJP’s Tamil Nadu president Tamilisai Sounderarajan. 
 
 Rajini’s political overtures remained dormant after he publicly supported the DMK-TMC (Moopanar) combine against the J Jayalalithaa-led AIADMK in 1996. He seems to be returning with renewed vigour to take direct plunge into active politics. It is seen as an obvious move by the superstar, who sees space for himself in the void left behind by Jayalalithaa. DMK patriarch M Karunanidhi has retired from active politics with his son M K Stalin taking over the reins. Actor-politician Vijayakanth, who heads DMDK, seems to have lost steam.
 
 “His think tank sees the prevailing political situation in Tamil Nadu as ideal for Rajinikanth’s entry.” He said Rajini is likely to do a Chiranjeevi (the Telugu superstar) in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections with his ability to get at least 15 % to 20 % of the votes. He could be a significant force in the state assembly elections due in 2021. 
 
 
 
 
 Analysts see a BJP pattern wherein the national party supported another Telugu superstar Pawan Kalyan, brother of Chiranjeevi, who launched his own political outfit Jana Sena before the 2014 general elections. Pawan Kalyan aligned with the NDA that won the AP assembly election held simultaneously with the Lok Sabha elections.
 
 “The BJP seems to have been toying with the idea of trying its Andhra Pradesh model politics on Tamil Nadu in the next Lok Sabha elections. And Rajinikanth is its obvious choice,” said political analyst Tarasu Shyam.
 
 
 
 
 P Muralidhar Rao, BJP national general secretary in charge of the party affairs in Karnataka and Tamil Nadu, said senior leaders from his party were in touch with Rajinikanth. “Talks are on with him for some time now. There is a lot of positive vibes mutually. While it is up to him to take the decision, we welcome him if he wants to join BJP,” he said. 
 
 
 
