NAGPUR: “Supportive medicine like controlling infections, nursing care, applied life sciences play a very important role in treatment of any patient in intensive care in children. Hence there is a need for the doctors to be trained in these fields,” said Dr   here on Tuesday.

 Dr Deopujari, patron of the two-day international conference ‘books to bedside’, was briefing the media about the conference beginning on Saturday. 
 
 He said that the doctors in the developed countries treated patients with minimum medicines. But they insisted on good supportive care and nursing as this can change the course of treatment for the better. “If you are treating a patient of pneumonia you also need to know the amount of oxygen the patient would require when and how,” said Dr Deopujari.
 
 The conference is being organized by the Paediatric Intensive Care Chapter (PICC) and the   (IAP) and is focusing on supportive care in paediatrics.
 
 The organizing chairperson of the conference Dr Shilpa Hazare pointed out there were various super specialities within paediatrics and intensive care and supportive care were equally important as the basic treatment.
 
 Dr Anand Bhutada, the organizing secretary, said that conference was bringing the world’s stalwarts to the city. The conference would have five parallel workshops on bronchoscopy in children, non invasive ventilation, paediatric hospital entrepreneurship, applied life sciences and Simulation Training in Emergency Paediatrics (STEP).
 
 The conference will honour students and nurses with awards for scoring maximum marks in MD examination in the two medical colleges in city in paediatrics and best nursing care. The awards will be instituted in the names of Late   (Dr Deopujari’s father) and Dr Mark Rogers from US.
 
 The international faculty would include Dr Bonita Stanton, Dr Nina Schor, Dr Larry Greenbaum, Dr Rashid Vasanwala, Dr Zobair Aghai, Dr  , Dr Manoj Malviya and Dr Arun Pramanik. DR Vishram Buche, Dr Nilofar Mujawar also spoke to the media.
 
