 (Etapalli): The state government’s elaborate plans to envelop Lloyds Metal and Energy Ltd’ Surjagarh mining project with multi-layered security, including six additional police posts, may end up merely as a corporate model as local tribals feel that it might not serve any purpose.

 Apart from the fear factor, the failure of the Hedari police to intervene into the arson on December 23 last year when Naxalites torched 80 vehicles, including 76 trucks, at the mining site had dented their image among the locals.
 
 The tribal population is now raising questions on the effectiveness of the police to protect them when they would work on the site. “Police could not arrive for several hours to tackle the Naxalites who torched vehicles, despite being only 2km away. How can we depend on them?” a tribal said.
 
 The bewildered tribals from villages adjoining the project such as like Surjagarh, Hedari, Parsalgondi, Mungner and Aladendi among others are reeling under fear and confusion as different forces are trying to pull them apart on the issue of supporting mining on the hillocks wrapped with verdant forest.
 
 Torn between Naxalites’ ideology to protest the project on the issue of protecting their ‘jal, jungle and jameen’ (water, forest and land) and government-propelled development theory, the tribal now seem to be a divided lot. A cross-section of tribals from various villages of Etapalli taluka around the project reflected a baffling duality in their opinions.
 
 While candidly accepting Naxalite fear as the most crucial factor, there was an apparent undercurrent of dejection too as mining has thrown open a sustainable source of income for many of them.
 
 Though a large chunk of tribal population are mentally prepared to part with a sizeable area of the hillocks, which is also considered abode of their chief deity ‘Thakur dev’ and his manifestations, the arson on December 23 have injected a fresh fear in them.
 
 A tribal from Surjagarh village, who has worked on various such projects in the past in Etapalli taluka, said police protection would be available only at the site and not in villages. “Naxalites have clearly stated that anyone working at the site would earn their wrath. Now, going for the work on the mining site is like an invitation to death. Villagers as well as roads are unguarded and anyone can fall prey to Naxalites any time,” he said.
 
 Another tribal from Hedari village also claimed that opening of police posts cannot guarantee security to an individual. “The police posts would be opened at a distance of minimum 20-25 km and even more apart from each other. Naxalites can storm into any village and kill as many as they want before the cops can arrive,” he said. “Police would furnish some or the other excuse to arrive after there is loss of life or property,” he added.
 
 
