INDORE: The biggest government medical facility of the state,   has been facing  , staplers, OT sheets and towels and other basic amenities further causing huge inconvenience to patients coming here for affordable treatment.

 There are nine operation theaters in surgery and orthopedic department, where around 70-80 operations are performed on daily basis. This apart, a good number of operations are being performed in gynecology and ENT (eyes, neck and throat) section.
 
 “We often face shortage of medicines, staplers and OT sheets and towels required for performing operations. Despite we approached the hospital superintendent, the problem is still prevalent,” said Dr Arvind   of the hospital.
 
 Dr Ghanghoria said that in absence of cartridges and proper maintenance, ABG machines were not serving the purpose while serum electrolyte test, which was required to know level of sodium, potassium, can’t be performed for last few weeks.
 
 However, the hospital superintendent Dr VS Pal said that there was no shortage of medicines, bed sheets, towels and kits required in OT.
 
  He said that divisional commissioner   on Tuesday held a meeting to review situation and take appropriate steps to solve the issue.
 
 “The cost of repairing ABG machine is somewhere near to it its buying cost. Besides, some companies have come forward to donate the machine on condition to further buy cartridges from them. The commissioner has constituted a committee to decide on the best deal,” said Dr Pal.
 
 He added that the supply of serum electrolyte has been streamlined from Tuesday itself.
 
 “With the time, the fund of Rs 4 Crore, meant for OT kits and different tests, proved insufficient. Talk with state government to provide around Rs 4.5 to Rs 5 crore to meet the demand is underway,” said Dr Pal.
 
  “We spend around Rs 4 lakh per month to help the needy and major portion of it goes in buying medicines and conducting medical tests from outside, which should be made available by the hospital authority” said a social activist Radheshyam Sabu.
 
