Little off the   Main Road is   where 20 families make kovil kodais that add colour to temple festivals throughout the year. The artisans are at their busiest this time of the year, making umbrellas for the   Festival in  , which is starting this weekend. A walk down the street, you see artisans on both sides of the road giving finishing touches to the umbrellas before they’re sent off to Tirumala.

 One of them, CN  , tells us about how they ready the umbrellas especially for Brahmotsavam. “There are about six donors from Chennai who regularly buy from us and give it as an offering at the   temple during the festival. We start work at least three months. These umbrellas are specifically made for Brahmotsavam and taken to Tirupati and they are made only in Chintadripet. There are people who make umbrellas in Kancheepuram, but they are used only in local temples in and around the place. We’ve been making this since early 1900s. So, the authentic ones are made here,” says Magesh.
 
 For them, it’s their kudumba thozhil and they take pride in carrying the tradition of making kovil kodais generation after generation. Another artisan CK Kumar says, “There are about 20 families who do this here. We’re all from the same Saurashtrian community, who came and settled here. First, I was employed in a maalai kadai, where I would make sandalwood maalai. But I found it really hard to earn enough for my living.”
 
 That’s when I thought ‘why not do my own kula thozil?’ Now, I have been doing this for the last few decades. My entire family helps me at work, including my grandmother, who’s 98 now,” says another artisan, CK Kumar.
 
 The raw materials are all gathered from Chennai, but making each one is quite a time-consuming task. The umbrellas come in varied sizes starting from small ones which are 4.5ft in diameter to those ones which are as big as 18ft in diameter. Says Magesh, “The fabric is called jery cloth. This material doesn’t absorb dust and dirt easily and therefore it always looks fresh. The colours and designs of the umbrellas are chosen based on beliefs of each kovil that we make them for. And it should only be done that way. The umbrella’s frame is made of bamboo. It’s dried under hot sun for several days and then used. So, the frame lasts longer. Raw materials are available in Chennai. Bamboos from wood shops in  , whereas, fabrics are bought from Parry’s. A small 4.5ft-diameter umbrella easily takes four days to be completed. Every work on the umbrella is done manually and no machinery used at all.” And the cost? “The price varies from `4500 to `50,000, depending on the diameter,” replies Magesh.
 
 After Brahmotsavam, for about two months, they spend time collecting raw materials for the next season of festivals. “From January, there’ll be festivals happening back-to-back in various temples. So, we have to be ready with raw materials by then. We also send these umbrellas to different part of the world like the US, the UK, Singapore, Malaysia, etc. There are Hindu temples across the globe and we get orders online from many of them. The customers bear the transportation cost. They also take care of the paperwork involved in export-import. We only have to ready the umbrellas on time. Apart from umbrellas, we also send across other temple accessories made of cloth,” sums up Magesh.
 
