New Delhi:   to buy a new  ? You now won’t have to bother about collecting the registration certificate ( ) from the transport department as it will be delivered at your doorsteps.

 To make registration of vehicles hassle-free, Delhi government is soon going to make the entire process online as part of which the RC will be sent to   owners through Speed Post at their residence.
 
 “Currently, documents from the vehicle dealer are sent to the transport department after which the RC is prepared. We have now developed new software and the entire process will be online,” said transport minister Kailash Gahlot.
 
 The transport department has authorised a few vehicle dealers to register vehicles, but in most cases the RC has to be collected from the zonal office of the transport department. This will soon be done away with and vehicle owners will get the RC sitting at home.
 
 The software developed by the department will also enable owners to track the status of their registration. Regular updates will also be sent by SMS.
 
 This initiative is a part of the transport department’s endeavour to go online in a major way and reduce interface between the public and transport department, Gahlot said. He said that trade certificates given to vehicle dealers will also become online, apart from renewal of licences and permits such as All India Tourist Permit given to taxis. This would also mean lesser pressure on the transport authority offices. “Every day 45,000 to 50,000 people visit these offices for various purposes,” the minister said.
 
 The process of getting Pollution Under Control (PUC) certificates will also be streamlined to ensure that people follow the rules. “We are going to send SMS reminders to people to get their PUC certificates on time. We also plan to link vehicle insurance with PUC,” Gahlot said.
 
 At present, only a fraction of vehicle owners go for regular PUC checks. The transport department is preparing a database of vehicle owners to send them reminders through SMS for getting PUC checking done.
 
 
