BENGALURU: The depleting water levels in Karnataka's key reservoirs has the state government issue a warning to the residents: Get ready for once in three days water supply if the   river basin receives no rain by May-end. The warning has sent the Bengaluru MLAs into a fix as their popularity in their constituencies will be directly proportional to their deft handling of the imminent water crisis. So much so that several of them have started making a beeline before Bengaluru development minister K J George and top officials of the   (BWSSB) seeking sanction for more tankers and borewells.

 A senior official in the urban development department told TOI: “The MLAs are keen to know about the relief measures being chalked out to tackle the water crisis. While some want 10 tankers to be allotted per ward, a few have been appealing to the government to sanction funds for new borewells. Water is likely to be the top priority for MLAs this summer.“
 
 In fact, a pointer to the worst case scenario was evident during the recent emergency meeting convened by George. The MLAs argued for take over of private borewells, the source of water for the tanker cartel. MLAs from Rajarajeshwarinagar, Mahadevapura, Hebbal Basavanagudi, Yeshwantpur and Yelahanka have already presented their priority list to the government.
 
 “Water is a major concern.We appeal to people to use water judiciously,“ said George.However, ruling out move to take over private borewells, he said: “We can't stop them completely as they too are supplying water, but we will take action if they charge exorbitant rates.“ “Bengaluru will require 6.32 tmc feet of water between March 1 and June 30.If water levels in the reservoirs don't go up by then, we will resort to water pumping on a rotation basis and water will be supplied once in three days.“ He said BWSSB was already supplying water through 68 tankers and tenders have been called for another 100. The Bengaluru Urban district   has also been told to arrange for 120 tankers by April.
 
 TIMES VIEW
 
 The imminent water crisis Karnataka is staring at definitely calls for urgent steps by the state government and cooperation by people. The receding water levels in the key reservoirs of the Cauvery is a cause of serious concern for Bengaluru. The city is already paying through its nose for costly water tankers. Considering the shortage of water and its wastage, water rationing is a step in the right direction, but the government has to act quickly to ensure the residents are not left high and dry in summer.
 
