AMRITSAR: Former Congress leader-turned-Akali   once again shifted loyalties and rejoined the Congress on Sunday, just five days ahead of  .

 Goldy, the husband of district transport officer Lovejeet Kaur, came back to the party in the presence of Punjab Congress chief Capt   in Bathinda on Sunday. Goldy, a former PPCC secretary and president of a district unit of the Youth Congress, had unsuccessfully contested the Amritsar South assembly byelection in 2008 on a Congress ticket, but had lost to SAD’s Inderbir Singh Bolaria by a margin of 22,000 votes. In 2014, Goldy left Congress to join SAD.
 
 It is yet to be seen how much Goldy will be helpful in the winning prospects of Bolaria, who had left SAD to join Congress in recent past.
 
 After joining Congress, Goldy posted his picture with Amarinder on his Facebook page, saying: “Rejoined Congress, it’s home coming.”
 
 In a previous post and photograph uploaded on January 14, Goldy is seen flanked by his supporters and urging, though his supporters, to Akali leadership to give him the ticket from Amritsar South constituency, pleading that 70% voters in the constituency were from backward classes, so the party should pick a BC candidate. “The dictatorial and anti-people functioning of the Badals and their party had made me rethink on my earlier decision, and encouraged me to go back to my alma mater. The Congress is the only hope for Punjab’s future,” he said.
 
 In August last year, Goldy, the then spokesperson of Youth Akali Dal, and Amritsar’s senior deputy mayor Avtar Singh Truckanwala had entered into a scuffle at the deputy commissioner’s office complex. Both were ticket aspirants from Amritsar South assembly constituency. After Goldy absconded to evade arrest, he challenged police and Akalis through social media, following which the party suspended him. Later, he struck a truce with SAD and one again started working in the Amritsar South assembly constituency, but the party picked YAD district chief Gurpartap Singh Tikka. 
 
