MADURAI: Late President A P J Abdul Kalam’s grand-nephew A P J M   on Sunday sought to put an end to the controversy regarding the Bhagavad Gita being placed by a statue of   at his memorial at Peikarumbu in   by placing the Quran and Bible too beside the statue. However, this invited protests from hindutva outfits which said he should have consulted the government before doing so.

 The memorial for Abdul Kalam, known as the people’s president, was inaugurated by Prime Minister   on July 27. It also celebrates his life, including his cultural interests. One of the statues that had been kept under covers and maintained as a secret till the prime minister unveiled it was that of Kalam playing the veena. Also sculpted along with the statue was a rehal, a stand on which was sculpted a book with the words `Bhagavad Gita’’ embossed on it.
 
 On Saturday, MDMK leader Vaiko wanted to know if the Bhagawat Gita was placed “on purpose” at the memorial, and if the Modi government thought that there was no one to question it. “Is the Gita above the Thirukkural, the only book which is qualified to be placed in the memorial ?,” he said. Naam Tamilar Katchi leader Seeman and VCK leader Thirumavalavan also seconded the opinion, that it was the Thirukkural that should adorn the memorial.
 
 In a move to set at rest the controversy, Kalam’s grand-nephew Sheik Saleem, who came to the memorial on Sunday morning, took the Bible and Quran from Abdul Kalam’s collection of books and placed them at the memorial. He urged the people not to politicize the matter. However, hindutva outfits in Rameswaram were not amused by this and protested the action of placing the Quran at the memorial.
 
 An associate of the Kalam family, K Abdul Ghani, said that Sheik   had switched off his phone after he received calls from some people questioning his action. “We know that Kalam was a religiously tolerant person and read the Bible, Gita and the Quran. But now people are creating an issue which was not at all related to him,’’ he said.
 
 Ghani said that the statue had been kept tightly covered till it was unveiled by the prime minister and they had no idea what it was like. “The family had no problem on seeing the Gita with the statue but not everyone saw it that way,’’ he said. “After all the veena itself is sought of a religious instrument, more oriented towards hinduism, but now they are trying to politicise the issue,’’ he said. 
 
 The family has not lodged any complaint about the threats received by Saleem, but they have informed the DRDO personnel who are in charge of the construction of the memorial of the latest developments. VHP district president Madurai M Chandrasekharan, who was in Rameswaram on Sunday, said that he did not know who had called up Saleem, but that he did not see anything wrong in the government sculpting the Gita along with the statue.
 
 
 
 
