PUNE: Promising   conceived by the students of the   ( ) will now receive full support for patents and technology transfer, vice-chancellor   said on Monday. 

 “To ensure that innovative ideas of our students do not go waste, the university has decided to provide them with ample support in terms of patenting, commercialisation, drafting a proposal for funding, interaction with experts among others,” Gade said during a press conference on Monday.
 
 The university won the general championships at  , the state-level inter-university research competition, which was hosted by the Swami Ramanand Tirth Marathwada University, Nanded, last week. With this win, the SPPU maintained its leadership position by retaining the coveted trophy for the ninth time since the year of its inception in 2006.
 
 Rucha Deshpande, a student of Prof Ramkrishna More Arts, Commerce and Science College, Akurdi, had conceived her project in pure science. Titled ‘In Ovo Yolk Sac Membrane: A screening tool’, it won the first prize in the postgraduate category. 
 
 Gade said this project, if given right support, would do wonders in the coming years. “It is at a very initial stage, but if it is taken forward, it can lead to an innovative way of treating patients. There is a lot of potential in the project and there are a couple of others that need expert support which the varsity would provide,” he said.
 
 As many as 20 universities across Maharashtra participated in the competition. The SPPU had fielded a total of 48 projects. In the final round, 177 projects were shortlisted of which 22 were from the SPPU. As many as 11 projects from the university won awards. The winners in the undergraduate category received a scholarship worth Rs 3,000 per month for 10 months while those in the postgraduate category received Rs 6,000 per month for 24 months to take their research forward.
 
 The annual competition involves undergraduate, postgraduate and PhD students from nine non-agriculture as well as four agriculture state universities. They are needed to demonstrate their innovative research skills and projects in fields as varied as engineering, science and technology, commerce, arts and humanities, agriculture and animal husbandry among others.
 
 Gade attributed the university’s consistent success at Avishkar to the unique three-tier workshop-based module where research projects are vetted at college, district and university-level meets before they are fielded for the state-level contest. “For us, Avishkar is more than just a competition. It is a means of creating capable human resource,” Gade added.
 
