CHENNAI: IF the Hanging Gardens of Babylon were one of the seven wonders of the ancient world, the hanging pillars of the   is today’s wonder, said Justice N Kirubakaran of the Madras high court on Monday. 

 The judge passed the sarcastic comment pointing out news reports which exposed the precarious condition of a 450-metre barrage-cum-bridge, near Paramathi Velur, Namakkal. 
 
 On June 26, TOI carried a news report on how most of the pillars of bridge were suspended. The barrage-cum-bridge constructed in 2013 across the Cauvery connects Solasiramani in   and Pasur in Erode. 
 
 The 16 pillared bridge was constructed by the PWD which also houses two power generation units of 15 megawatt each. 
 
 Pointing out the condition of the bridge, the judge asked, “When the Thanjai Periyakoil, Brahadeeshwarar Temple at Thanjavur, built by Raja Raja Cholan could stand like a rock even after 1000 years, and the Kallanai built by Karikalan across Cauvery at   could stand firm even after 1,500 years, how could the barrage-cum-bridge built barely four years ago, suffer damage within such a short span?” 
 
 It would only prove the poor quality of construction, lack of supervision by the officials concerned and the non-maintenance of the bridge by the department. Though this kind of infrastructures are erected by making use of the public money, to our dismay, poor quality of construction and non-maintenance have led to this kind of pitiable and precarious condition, thereby endangering the lives of the people, the judge added. 
 
 Calling the incident as only the tip of an iceberg as to how the public projects were being executed defectively and negligently, Justice Kirubakaran also pointed out how even court buildings constructed recently developed cracks.
 
 The damage caused to the bridge is a wakeup call for the government to test the stability of all the bridges and take proper remedial measures on a war footing in order to avoid human tragedy and damage to the nation’s wealth due to such eventualities. To avoid constructions using sub-standard materials and prevent defective execution of works, new monitoring methods have to be adopted as the old methods of supervision have proved to be ineffective, Justice Kirubakaran observed. 
 
 The justice then listed 20 questions to be answered by the government which include queries whether indiscriminate mining of sand in and around the bridges by the sand mafia is the reason for present damage, and why not the government create a separate ministry for proper execution of all government projects.
 
 Based on his recommendation, a division bench headed by Justice M Sathyanarayanan on Monday initiated a suo motu proceeding on the incident and ordered notice to the Tamil Nadu government returnable by six weeks.
 
