MANGALURU:   district administration and   is prepared to meet drinking water exigency that may arise in   of the district this summer. State government has clarified that funds will not be a constraint to mitigate any such exigency and the authorities concerned have been directed to draw up contingency plan to meet the situation, Ivan D'Souza, chief whip of the government in legislative council said. 

 Addressing reporters, Ivan said he has already had detailed discussion with DC K G Jagadeesha and CEO of zilla panchayat M R Ravi in this regard. "Both officials have assured me that they have funds at their disposal to meet any drinking water crisis that may arise," he said. While DC has released Rs 82 lakh through the task force to mitigate urban  , the CEO has released Rs 2.60 crore out against Rs 6 crore sought for rural areas, Ivan said.
 
 Barring Balepuni and Manjanady villages, where water is being supplied through tankers, there is no emergent water shortage in rural areas, Ivan said. In   limits, 34 additional borewell points have been identified and work on 24 borewells will be completed within a week. 
 
 The city has 66 functional borewells and 24 open wells, water from which can be used locally to mitigate any short term water crisis that may arise this summer, he noted.
 
 The government has released Rs 2.32 crore for repair of 427 out of 1,565 vented dams in the district. The government has set a target of repairing 1,000 vented dams in DK during 2017-18. The detailed plan of rejuvenation of underground water table with the Paschima Vahini scheme announced in the budget will be announced shortly, he said adding Rs 15.81 crore has been sought for rejuvenating 133 tanks in Bantwal, Mangaluru tauks under Kere Sanjeevini scheme.
 
 The government in addition has sanctioned Rs 50 lakh as discretionary funds to all zilla panchayat presidents to meet any emergency work in the respective districts, he said. The government has also permitted repair of vented dams, borewell recharge/rejuvenation, he said.
 
 
