PATNA: The special CBI-II court of judge Sarvajeet on Monday   guilty of   from   treasury in Meghalaya in October, 1988. The court in Patna will pronounce the quantum of punishment on Tuesday. The withdrawals were made in the name of 20 retired Army personnel by submitting   (PPO) of controller of defence account (pension), Allahabad.
 
  Those convicted in the case are Dinesh Kumar Sharma, Dinesh Singh, Vinay Kumar and Jay Narayan Singh of Vaishali and Arjun Jha of Muzaffarpur. They are all in their 60s. The court, however, set free six other accused in the case for lack of evidence against them. They were MU Mutyent, Sharda Nand, Dinanath Prasad, Rajendra Singh, Chandrika Ram and Lal Muhammad.
  
  CBI special public prosecutor Akhtar H Khan said the convicts, in connivance with several others, had impersonated as retired Army personnel and withdrew money from the Shillong treasury. “Mastermind Sharma and his associates forged the pension payment orders in the name of several persons as retired Army personnel. They got the forged documents printed on Muzaffarpur civil court premises and Musallahpur Haat in Patna,” Khan said and added that 23 persons, including several government officials of Meghalaya posted in Shillong treasury department were made accused in the chargesheet filed by the   (CBI).
  
  Khan said 12 persons, including all government officials named in the chargesheet, died during the 28 years of court trial. He also said some Army personnel posted at Muzaffarpur were also involved in assisting the fraudsters but their names never surfaced in the CBI investigation.
  
  “Sharma was also involved in a similar fraud from Sagar district treasury in Madhya Pradesh. Three years ago, he had been sentenced to seven years imprisonment,” Khan said and added that he was on bail granted by the Supreme Court.
  
  Meghalaya’s anti-corruption bureau’s DSP A K Mathur had lodged the FIR with Shillong police station on October 28, 1988. The CBI’s Special Crime-I branch of Delhi had taken over the case on November 16, 1990 and submitted the chargesheet on November 11, 1994.
