BELAGAVI:   was on cloud nine when it was selected for the   project. But over a year later, many of the projects are still on paper. Residents are keeping their fingers crossed hoping that the project will usher in development and the city will see  ,   and integration of   that will improve their quality of life. 

 As much as Rs 1,200 crore will be mobilized through the private-public partnership (PPP) model under the Smart City project for the development of Belagavi, apart from the Rs 1,000 crore state and Centre's funds, said Shashidhar Kurer, Smart City project MD and commissioner of Belagavi City Corporation (BCC).
 
 At a recent workshop for councillors and journalists on the project, he said multi-utility facilities like construction of complexes for hawkers' on the outskirts of the city, improvement of road junctions and installation of wind powers will be taken under the PPP model.
 
  
 
 
  The neglected 800-year-old Belagavi Fort will be restored under the Smart City Project (SCP). Rejuvenation of the moat around the fort, boating, a garden in front of the fort and other beautification works too will be undertaken. Belagavi Smart City Ltd. ((BSCL) has prepared an action plan for the first phase. 
 
 BSCL's estimation is around Rs 25 crore for the first phase. The ancient Kamal basadi, centuries-old shivalayas, Ramakrishna Mission Ashram, Durgadevi Temple, Safa and Jamia mosque, military canteen and quarters inside the fort too will be part of restoration plan.
 
  The moat has turned filthy with rotten vegetables being dumped by wholesale vegetable vendors. It will be cleaned and filled with water. The existing walking track and the old proposed plan of the museum will also be developed under this plan. The inside part of the fort will be beautified with street lamps. Historian Nitin Khot rues the battle being waged to restore the ancient fort. "Since it comes under the Cantonment Board limits, the Army has not given permission for its development. Now is the opportunity for the authorities to see that the Fort is rejuvenated under the Smart City programme," he said. 
 
 Kurer said that parts of the Fort come under the Archeological Survey of India and some under the Cantonment Board. "We have communicated with both offices and they have no problems with this project. The survey on the work has been completed. However, the Territorial Army has not allowed any work in the area where they have their offices. That area will not be part of the project presently," he added.
 
  
 
 
  KPTCL Road near Hescom office, Railway Station Road and Mandoli Road too will be developed as model roads under the Smart City project. These roads will have utility services such as underground cables, gas pipeline, ultra-modern streetlights, landscaping at medians, bicycle track and pedestrian path. Kurer said work on these roads will cost around Rs 25 crore and the tender process will be completed soon. 
 
 
 
  Vaccine Depot, home to thousands of medicinal plants and trees, too will be developed under the Smart City plan. Spread over 156 acres, it will be developed as a heritage park. Apart from the Rs 26 crore allocated under the project, the state government too has released Rs 5 crore through the ayush department to develop a herbal museum in this park. The park will have play equipment for kids and tracks for cycling, jogging and walking. Plans are afoot to develop an art village depicting rural life. The old water tank too will be cleaned and rejuvenated. 
 
 Kiran Subbarao, executive engineer, Smart City project, said that the plan for the heritage park will be out in public domain for suggestions following which the detailed project report will be prepared. This process is likely to take a couple of months, he added.
 
 
