THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Chief secretary   cited several violations of conduct rules after DGP   published his autobiography titled 'Sravukalkkoppam Neenthumbol' (Swimming with the sharks). 

 It is reliably learnt that in the report submitted to chief minister  , she has cited at least 14 such violations in the book that violated   Conduct rules. 
 
 Conduct rules do not allow a serving officer to publish any material that criticizes government policy. In her report, the chief secretary has said that though Thomas had informed the government about writing the book, he had not obliged when he was asked to furnish the contents of his book. It is learnt that the chief secretary has recommended a detailed inquiry in this matter.
 
 According to the provison to sub-rule (2) of rule 6 of the   (Conduct) Rules, 1968, a member of the all India service is not required to obtain the previous sanction of the government for publishing a book or for contributing an article to a newspaper, periodical etc only if the subject matter of the book or contribution is purely literary, artistic or scientific in character.
 
 As per the section 3(c) of the Police Forces (Restriction of Rights) Act, 1966, "no member of a police force shall without the express sanction of the central government or of the prescribed authority communicate with the press or publish or cause to be published any book letter or other document except which such communication or publication is the bona fide discharge of his duties or is of a purely literary, artistic or scientific character or is of a prescribed nature".
 
 In the case of Thomas, as per the Act, he should have taken prior permission from the Centre before publishing the book. The penalty prescribed in the act for the violation is an imprisonment of two years, a fine of Rs 2,000 or both.
 
 Moreover, after noticing that some retired officers had published books and articles that revealed sensitive information, the ministry of home affairs had asked the state governments to ensure that necessary follow-up action as envisaged in the Official Secrets Act, 1923 were initiated. This was done as such disclosures were likely to embarrass the government and officers concerned, whose names were revealed in such books and articles.
 
