MAPUSA: In a complete twist to the case of a Mapusa-based builder's movie-style kidnapping and escape on September 15, the accused in the case was found at Assagao in an injured state, tied in a plastic bag in the wee hours of Saturday.

  Yusuf, the accused in the kidnapping case, according to the complaint by builder  , was found dumped at an underconstruction site on the Assagao plateau.
 
 Anjuna police said they received a call at 3.30am that a person was packed inside a plastic bag and dumped at the site.   said that a fish vendor noticed a parked four-wheeler and some men pulling out something from the car. After noticing that they were being watched by the fish vendor, the men hurriedly dumped the bag and fled from the scene.
 
 Anjuna police, on receiving the information, rushed to the site and rescued the man who told them that he was Mohammed Yusuf, who is linked to the case in Goa. He was later rushed to the district hospital at   and subsequently shifted to Goa medical college and hospital at   for medical treatment.
 
 Anjuna police said that they immediately informed Bijapur police about the incident and a team from Bijapur left for Goa and will be reaching here late Saturday evening.
 
 Sources said that the statements they tried to record from Mohammed does not provide clarity over the issue. Sources also said that the Bijapur police told their counterparts in Goa to wait till they reach the state for further investigations in the case. Sources said that according to Yusuf’s complaint to the Bijapur police, it was a ‘rice puller deal’ which went sour and he was threatened by Arolkar on gun point.
 
 Sources said that Mohammed’s wife had filed a missing complaint at Bijapur police station on Wednesday. Arolkar, on September 19, had lodged a police complaint at Mapusa police station, stating that he was kidnapped by a group of seven to eight persons in Nipani, Karnataka, on September 16. Arolkar told Mapusa police that he had managed to escape the next morning from the custody of the kidnappers.
 
 Sources said that a fish vendor noticed a parked four-wheeler and some men pulling out something from the car. After noticing that they were being watched by the fish vendor, the men hurriedly dumped the bag and fled from the scene. Anjuna police rushed to the site and rescued the man.
 
