BENGALURU: A day after BJP and RSS leader Srinivas Prasad aka Kittaganahalli Vasu, 43, was hacked to death at Bommasandra, southeast Bengaluru, police on Wednesday arrested five individuals including the president of   town municipal council Sarojamma Ramaswamy and her son, on charges of murder.

 City police from Bengaluru Rural district have launched a manhunt for five others, who are on the run. 
 
 A member of the  , Sarojamma’s ascension to the president’s post in the municipal council had been a source of friction between her and Prasad. Besides Sarojamma, 45, and her son C Manjunatha, 29, the other suspects arrested by the cops are Narayanaswamy Motappa, 35, Appu Gangadhar alias Murali, 20, from Rampura village and Madhu Muniyallappa alias Strike, 23, of Attibele.
 
 Prasad was ambushed by armed men near   (BTI) on   around 5.30am on Tuesday. A member of the Bommasandra municipal town council, Prasad left his Kittaganagahalli residence early in the morning after he reportedly received a call. He sustained 15 injuries in the assault, and died on the spot.
 
 “Although Prasad had the backing of a majority of members in the town municipal council, he couldn’t stake claim to the president’s post as the government reserved the post for a woman. Prasad moved the court challenging the government’s decision, and the case is still being heard. The government’s move helped Congress leader Sarojamma, who was the only woman member in the house, become the president,” police said.
 
 Well-planned murder?
 
 Senior police officials opined that the murder was meticulously planned and executed. “The assailants were aware of the difficulties that attacking Prasad in daylight involved, since he was likely to be accompanied by friends and followers. We suspect that that the prime accused tried hiring contract killers. But following demonetization, they were strapped for cash and couldn’t go through with the plan,” a senior cop said.
 
 CCTV footage appears to have come in handy in identifying and tracing the suspects. “The suspects were seen near BTI on Monday evening. We sought help from Prasad’s family members and friends to identify the suspects,” police said.
 
 Amit Singh –SP Bengaluru Rural said, “We have succeeded in arresting five accused including Sarojamma. But it is too early to come out with the statement on the motive behind the killing. We have to arrest more accused to make statements.”
 
 
