LUCKNOW: The district administration has issued a circular to all schools in the city, including   and CBSE, asking them to furnish details of the expenditure incurred by them on schools’ functioning. The decision came after a meeting of education officials, district inspector of school and district administration on Wednesday. 

 All schools have been asked to provide details of expenditure incurred by them on salary of teaching and non-teaching staff, number of students (section-wise) enrolled, fee charged at the time of admission and other fee structure including report card, identity card, transfer certificate, and migration certificate. The details have to be submitted within 15 days. 
 
 On Wednesday, ADM administration Avinash Singh and   Umesh Tripathi convened a meeting of basic shiksha adhikari (BSA), DIOS, city magistrates, and private schools to discuss issues like excessive  , and asking parents to purchase books and uniform from a shop prescribed by them. A delegation of Akhil Bhartiya Vidyarthi Parishad also attended the meeting.
 
 City Montessori School’s representative Rishi Khanna raised objections on fee hike by private schools. “At the time of obtaining no-objection certificate from the state government, private schools are asked to fulfill certain norms. One of them is to pay government regulated salary to the staff. At the time when government schools are in poor shape, the government is focussed on capping the fee of only private schools which are only 1% of the total schools in UP charging high fee,’’ said Khanna. 
 
 Box
 
 Schools should pay for facilities: 
 
 During the meeting, ADM administration Avinash Singh reminded the school authorities that schools are not meant to be 5-star hotels and that private schools should provide facilities like ACs and smart classes on their own expenditure instead of charging from the parents. “We do not need a five-star hotel for our kids where they can study. And almost all meritorious students who have qualified coveted exams and are sitting here have come from those schools where children sit on mats,” Singh said. 
 
