CHENNAI: What's worth Rs 2,000? A lot of things, and for 16-year-old  , it was a sum that   off her   and nearly forced her into wedlock before she was a teen.

 On Friday, Shalini found out that she had scored 248 marks in the Class X board examination, a shade under 50%. Now living at the Karunalaya Centre for Street and Working Children in Tondiarpet, the former pavement dweller always had to tread the rough path. 
 
 A native of Trichy, Shalini and her elder sibling came to Chennai with her stepmother and father, in search of a livelihood. “I lost my mother when I was an infant. My father remarried so that we would have motherly care," she said.
 
 Though she grew up on the  , adversities were fewer till the day her stepmother, conservancy worker, stumbled upon Rs 2,000 on the road, while sweeping the streets. “She gave the money to a family friend for safekeeping with the intent of getting it back another day.This is what I was told had happened," said Shalini.
 
 Things took a bizzare turn when the family friend demanded the hand of Shalini, in return for the Rs 2,000. Desperate for the money, her stepmother tried to force Shalini, then 12, into marriage. “I was devastated when I got to know through my school friend that she (stepmother) had agreed to a 'deal' with the man. I could only cry," she said.
 
 After she learned of her stepmother's plan, Shalini took refuge at a friend's house. But after two weeks of staying away from her family, she was once again confronted by her stepmother. “She tracked me down and tried to take me away. But I ran as fast as I could to safety," said Shalini.
 
 After Karunalaya took her in, she moved to the instituterun girls home in Tondiarpet.Having completed Class X at the CSI Rajagopal Higher Secondary School, Shalini wishes to study science. “My ambition is to be a doctor." She is also an active member of the institute's girls football team in which she is a central defender.
 
 After the incident, Shalini barely keeps in touch with her family, “I meet my father and brother once a month. Someone from Karunalaya accompanies me when I go meet them at their home. I meet them only if my stepmom is not around,"said Shalini.
 
