BANKURA: Cops say they have found out exactly how   allegedly murdered his live-in partner   Sharma. Udayan, who allegedly also murdered both his parents, used an identical method to murder Akansha - by drugging and strangling her. The statement of a mason and a chemist - both from   in Bhopal - will hold clinching evidence for investigators, said sources. 

 On Friday, the cops also established in great detail how Udayan had laid out a three-month-long plan to eliminate the entire family of Akansha. 
 
 According to Bankura police sources, Udayan kept visiting Akansha - who was then in Delhi - since 2014. On each occasion, he had travelled from Bhopal but told Akansha that he had travelled from the US.
 
 "There is an app that can track flights taking off and landing across the globe. Udayan would choose any one flight from the US and switch his phone to 'flight mode'. He switched back to normal mode once this flight reached Delhi even as he used a train to travel in between. This way Akansha never doubted him. But once she reached Bhopal, Akansha soon realized Udayan was a fraudster and she had no hope of reaching the US to get a job. It was then she decided to return home and arranged for a ticket on July 12, 2016.
 
 That was the day Udayan decided to murder Akansha. He contacted a mason to create a well-like structure in the house but dropped the idea. Instead, Udayan first faked a doctor's prescription and then managed to buy two strips of sleeping pills. 
 
 "On the day of murder, July 15, 2016, the accused mixed her food and drinks with drugs. As Akansha lost consciousness, Udayan strangulated her. He then bought a trunk from the local market. Having put Akansha's body in the trunk, he fetched two sacks of cement and stone-chips," sources said.
 
 "When he failed in his attempt to prepare the desired concrete mix, he fetched a mason and asked him to mix the concrete. Udayan, however, forbade the latter from entering his residence claiming he was preparing a stupa for the gods and outsiders were not allowed. For the next two weeks, Udayan went about putting concrete to the trunk," they added. Cops have recovered some intimate photographs of Akansha from Udayan's laptop. "We are probing if they are morphed," an offical said. 
 
