SURAT: Most textile markets on Ring Road, Salabatpura and Sahara Darwaja in the city remained shut even as the indefinite strike by textile traders against GST entered its 13th day on Saturday. 

 Police personnel had been deployed at most of the textile markets on Ring Road to allow traders to open their shops. But, the presence of mobs outside the markets prevented the traders from taking the risk. 
 
 Textile GST Sangarsh Samiti (TGSS) leaders seem to have gone underground as the agitation has been literally hijacked by vested interests. The textile markets are almost shut since July 1. The traders have estimated losses to the tune of over Rs2,000 crore. 
 
 Former president of Federation of Surat Textile Traders’ Association ( ),   said, “The GST agitation in textile markets has taken a different track. The crowds we are seeing in the markets are not traders. All the traders are sitting at their homes and waiting for markets to open. We are trying to figure out who these people are. The central government should take some positive step to end the strike.” 
 
 TGSS convener   said, “We have already issued a statement on Friday stating that the traders wanting to open the shops are most welcome, while the rest can continue with the strike. Textile Youth Brigade (TYB) volunteers are staying away. Then who is leading the agitation? I have asked the police to identify the anti-social elements.” 
 
 Sources said some traders and weavers have started sending grey fabrics directly to textile processing mills in order to cater to buyers’ demand from other states. 
 
 “There are a few big time traders who are doing business directly with textile processing mills. The finished fabrics are loaded in the transport trucks from the mills and sent directly to other cities across the state,” said a textile trader. 
 
 Meanwhile, a few TGSS leaders had gone to Ahmedabad to participate in the mammoth rally organized there by the textile traders to protest against GST. 
 
 Hitesh Sanklecha, a textile trader who is on a hunger strike for the past 14 days, was also invited to the rally. “I am happy to see that the traders in Ahmedabad are with us. All the markets in Ahmedabad are shut and they will open only when the traders in Surat end the strike. Meanwhile, I am going to take rounds of the markets on Monday and urge the mobs not to create tension,” Sanklecha said at the rally.
 
