NEW DELHI: The confidence of the victory that Australia managed in the series opener in Pune was evident on day one of the second   at the Chinnaswamy Stadium, Bangalore on Saturday. On a pitch that would normally be ideal to bat in the first two days, India, opting to bat first, were bundled out for 189. Credit must be given where it is due and Australian bowlers should take that. Mitchell Starc and Josh Hazlewood did not allow India batsmen to settle during the opening burst and then Nathan Lyon and Steve O'Keefe bowled with such impeccable plan that it belied belief that this was the same Indian batting line-up that dominated their oppositions before the start of the series. Lyon claimed a career-best 8 for 50, rivalling his fellow spinner Steve O’Keefe’s first Test heroics. 

 Knocking off   (0) inside the first hour of play was surely a start Australia would have expected, but the wickets of Cheteshwar Pujara (17), at the stroke of lunch, and then   (12) and Ajinkya Rahane (17) in the second session proved that the Australians were exploiting the Pune momentum to the hilt. That momentum continued to rock the hosts as India lost their last five wickets for just 33 runs.   was the lone bright spot in the Indian batting order battling his way to 205-ball 90. 
 
 For India, the reassurance of playing at home was all gone and it seemed they were in a dilemma to what to do to counter the disciplined Australian attack. What works well for Australia is the variety in their attack. Starc with his express pace hurried on the batsmen while Hazlewood did well to pick a line and move the ball in occasionally to hinder the batsmen's strokemaking. Lyon and O'Keefe did the bulk of the bowling and were rewarded. The pitch assisted them well with both getting enough turn and bounce to put doubts in the batsmen's mind. Kohli - during his 17-ball stay - pounced on to a wide delivery from Lyon to get himself a boundary but was undone by a ball that did not turn enough. Lyon had been getting good purchase off the track and when he landed the ball with a flatter trajectory, Kohli first went back looking for a flick, but anticipated the ball to turn enough to miss the leg stump and shouldered arms. The ball, however, thudded on to his back leg that was right in front of the middle stump. He went for a review, but was unsuccessful. Lyon got rid of Kohli for the fifth time in Tests.
 
 At the other end, Rahul, probably understanding the conditions of his home track a tad better, reached his third Test fifty. But it was an innings that was not comforting to watch. He reached to the full deliveries well and swept the spinners with conviction but many deliveries went past his outside edge, and more often than not he failed to read the length correctly and adjusted late. 
 
 Rahane was troubled by the length as well. A couple of deliveries from Lyon shot off the track and further doubts were sowed in Rahane's mind. He charged down the track to Lyon, playing with the spin, to hoist him over midwicket to get his first boundary but a repeat of that shot led to his downfall. Lyon bowled the offbreak which did not spin and Rahane was miles down the track; wicketkeeper Matthew Wade fumbled, yet effected the stumping. Karun Nair walked in to join his Karnataka teammate. O'Keefe and Lyon were extracting much out of the pitch that was clearly crumbling at a much faster rate than what would have many expected. The most striking element in Lyon’s bowling was the turn he managed to extract on a regular basis and then pushing through one delivery that didn’t turn much and those deliveries produced the wickets. 
 
 The ball kept low for the spinners and stopped a bit after pitching for the pacers. Off the spinners, Karun looked more assured yet he fell to O'Keefe. Coming down the track, he was - similar to Rahane -undone by the lack of spin and, also the flight, to be stumped for 26, one over before tea. In the final session, it seemed a matter of time before India would be shot out and it needed only 13 overs. Ashwin was the first to go when he gloved a faster one that turned sharply to backward short leg. Saha then fell in to the trap of playing for the spin when there was none. An offbreak that went straight on had Saha edging to slip and captain Steve Smith took a sharp catch on his second attempt. Jadeja bat-padded another one that didn’t spin to first slip; initially given not out, the successful review handed Lyon his sixth wicket. Rahul was running out of partners as he approached his century and in a desperate effort to break the shackles went for a cover drive over mid-off, only managing to double bat and Matt Renshaw took an easy catch. His vigil ended 10 runs short of a century and the crowd appreciated the local boy’s effort. Off the next ball, Lyon grabbed his eighth when Ishant Sharma bat-padded a sharp turning offbreak to short leg as India were dismissed for 189. 
 
 In reply, Australian duo of Matt Renshaw and David Warner negotiated the remaining 16 overs without much trouble as Australia ended the day on 40 for no loss 
 
 
 : Australia 40/0 (Warner 23*) trail India 189 (Rahul 90; Lyon 8/50) by 149 runs 
 
