
They are sleuths of a different kind. When they are not sitting hunched with their heads buried in books, they slip on rubber gloves, wear surgical masks and patrol the University of Hyderabad (UoH) premises scouting for poachers’ traps, rescuing trapped animals and sometimes, even apprehend trespassers — all in a bid to spread awareness about the importance of conserving wildlife. Meet team ‘Wild Lens’ — a motley bunch of 30-odd students of  , who, driven by their sheer passion for environment, are working relentlessly to turn the 1,700-acre campus back to the haven it was for endangered wild life.
 
 
 Monsoon is a busy season for this enthusiastic bunch. “It’s around this time that we start our famous Nature Walks and Bird Watching for the campus community. We get about 100 to120 students for these walks that we conduct every alternate Sunday. The idea is to create awareness about the 100-plus varieties of bird and animal species on campus. We also sensitise them about the importance of sticking to jungle trails whenever they are on walks. There are the birds that lay eggs on the grass; often they end up getting trampled on and the nests get destroyed,” says  , a member. It is also during these walks that they discover numerous traps laid by poachers. In fact, so far the group has apprehended and handed over 88 poachers to the forest department and foiled several poaching attempts in and around the campus. 
 “Since some parts of the campus are unfenced and uninhabited, it used to be easy for poachers to enter the campus. Previously, we used to regularly stumble upon carcasses of spotted dear, wild boars and peacocks near the lakes and other water bodies during patrolling. But since we identified 20 such vulnerable spots and increased our patrolling trips, incidents of poaching have drastically gone down,” says Ravi Jillapalli, founder of the eco-group. 
 
 
 
 While they have their task cut out, it doesn’t look like they get too much help. “most of the security staff on campus are usually positioned at the UoH gate and near the various departments, so we end up monitoring such incidents all by ourselves. it makes our task even tougher but our group is growing by the day and we manage,” says  , another member of the group, adding that initially there were just five members in the group, but today the number has gone up to 30. And, they work round the clock!
 
 
 
 It all began with a routine photo walk four years ago, recalls Ravi. “At that time the campus was witnessing a spree of developmental activities and the wild life was suffering. Giant rock formations were crushed by bulldozers and trees were cut indiscriminately to make way for buildings and to lay roads. Alarmed by the thought of destruction of this beautiful campus, we started Wild Lens,” he says.
 
 
 
 One of the major objectives of the group is to sensitise the nearby communities about the endangered star turtles and discourage them from poaching. “Star turtles were common on campus but poaching reduced their numbers drastically — it’s rare to spot one these days. We’re trying our best to save the remaining by conducting awareness drives,” says  , PhD student and a wild life enthusiast. 
 However, the rise in population of feral dogs in and around the campus in the recent past, has posed yet another challenge for the group. “Last year, around 44 deer were killed by feral dogs. This year, 10 wild boars and deer have been killed so far,” said Ravi, adding that they are now working towards sterilising the dogs with the help of 
 municipality officials.
 
  
