Before the   life of the final year students comes to closure, the students are leaving no stone unturned to make their last few days count. College farewell   have become an exciting way to raise a toast to the new beginnings in the lives of these once a fuccha and soon going to be professionals. The juniors are also going an extra mile to make their cherished   feel special by giving them quirky titles, engaging them in some kickass games and taking them down on a memory lane by bringing the college life alive through videos. We take a look at how these parties are trending across the city. 

  
  
 
 
 March is one month when pubs and lounges remain packed with young revellers wanting to host parties. Jagdish Makhija, owner of a city-based pub informs, “We are receiving a good number of enquiries from students of various colleges to host   parties. Last week alone, we hosted five farewells. The students get the place booked for over 70-80 people, but we’ve been noticing that around 100 youngsters turn up.” He adds, “The budget of these students isn’t that high, so we offer them economic packages and often give them a 10 per cent discount with a free DJ for a bash of more than 100 people. Umpteen bouncers are present to ensure safety.”
 
 
 
 
 Most colleges are seeing a trend of hosting two farewell parties. Priyanka Tiwari, an MBA final year student of IMS College shares, “Our first formal farewell party was in the college campus which saw students walking the red carpet in our auditorium in Indian attire and giving farewell speeches. The informal bash which was hosted the next day, saw students letting their hair down.” These informal bashes are the events that students wait for eagerly. 
 
 
 
 
 Juniors are doing everything possible to make their seniors feel special. Anirudh Virvani, a first year MBA student of   college shares, “We are hosting a farewell party for our seniors 
  and elaborate preparations are underway for the same. Apart from giving Miss and Mr Farewell awards to the seniors who ruled our hearts the entire year, Miss and Mr Eve trophies are also in store. We are making quirky titles for each senior depending on their personality like Mr Swag, Miss Flamboyant, Selife Queen, etc. The party will include some exciting games as well.”
 
  
  
 
 
 
 The recent farewell of   was based on a retro-themed prom night. Seniors were seen in interesting costumes. Shruti Soni, an MBA MS final year student who won the Miss Farewell title shares, “Our juniors had prepared a visual memoir for us. The video compelled many of us to shed tears.” Sahir Kingrani, who got the title of Mr Classy adds, “Our fresher’s was an ice-breaking event where most of us were being pretentious. Farewells on the other hand, are honest and emotional. People were sad that many of us might not be meeting again for a long time. But like they say, every ending has a new beginning.”
 
