NAGPUR: The over-a-month-old ban by   on serving liquor within 500 metre radius of state or national highways has begun to hurt badly.

 Bars and restaurants in areas like Sadar,   and   are reeling under loss of business as no respite seems in sight. “We keep hearing that something will happen this week or the next one but nobody seems to be doing anything about it,” says Varun Sapkal owner of 10 Downing Street on Wardha Road.
 
 Finding the ban unjust, Sapkal says that ideally bars located beyond 500 metres of highways should be closed as they are near residential areas. “Either the government should declare this a dry state or this partial ban should be lifted at the earliest,” says a piqued Sapkal, who fears that the issue may get a political turn. “I believe that women’s groups are not allowing government to act in our favour,” he says.
 
 Stand-alone restaurants which do not have revenues from room tariffs are the worst hit as their major business comes from large groups of diners coming to enjoy food and drinks. The business is down by 60%, says Ashok Hansles, owner of Ashoka Restaurant in Sadar, which is hub of many such urban watering holes. “This entire area has lost its buzz. We are hearing that something positive will happen around May 15. That is keeping our hopes alive,” says Hansles. But what is irking him most is that liquor continues to be served at open air eateries outside city limit. “They are seeing a four times rise in business as people carry their own liquor there. This totally defeats the purpose of the ban,” he says.
 
 Mainland China, the eatery which opened six months back on Wardha Road has been struggling with traffic and parking issues but this latest ban has put its revenues behind by 30%. “We got our bar license in December and had again paid the fee in March this year just before the ban was implemented,” says Gautam Prashar, operational head. “We have a pan India presence and guests here come with certain expectations which we are unable to meet,” he adds.
 
 Finding faults more with the manner of execution of the order, advocate Shyam Dewani also one of the trustee of Maharaj Bag club says that clubs should not have been included. “Three clubs in Nagpur and thousands across the country are affected by this order,” says Dewani citing a 75% loss in business of his club. “I am advising the clubs here to form an all India association with other clubs to appeal as a single club will not be able to do it alone.”
 
 Five star hotels too should have been kept out of the frame feels Manoj Bali, general manager, Radisson Blu located on Wardha Road. “Room guest, especially foreigners, who are in city for business, have nothing to do after work hours. Where can they go to locate a wine shop on Wardha Road?” he asks. “We are now informing our customers at the time of reservations about our inability to serve liquor. Many tell us we live in a banana republic and that’s embarrassing,” says a miffed Bali.
 
