Veteran director   will be acting in a biopic on well-known social activist  . But contrary to some reports,  , as he is known, says that he will not be directing the film. It will be directed by his assistant   Vikram.

 Explaining why he took up the film, SAC says, “Right from my early days as a director, I have been a socially conscious filmmaker. All my films have tackled societal issues and I’ve released all those films facing my share of struggles. I got a chance to know about the life of Traffic Ramaswamy only three months ago, and it left me wondering. How can an ordinary man be so intrepid? How does a single person manage to file cases on powerful politicians, IPS and IAS officers, without any fear of earning their wrath, even at this age? He has 10 siblings but they have all abandoned him. His wife has also left him. And he has been beaten up by the police many times. Should this be the fate of a person fighting for the society? When producer Bhaskar approached me with an idea of making a film on him, he wanted me to act in it and also direct it. He felt that I resembled Traffic Ramaswamy in certain angles, even though I’m younger to him. But I told that I have decided to refrain from direction because of my age, but will act in it.”
 
 So, SAC chose Vigneshwaran (aka Vijay Vikram), who has been his assistant for the past five years. “He has also directed 2-3 short films, and he even made me act in one of those — a comedy,” he adds.
 
 The director has also met Traffic Ramaswamy to seek his nod for the project. “The producer met him first to obtain his permission. A couple of days later, I met him and he told me that he knows my works and was very happy that I’m going to play him. Since he has been an activist right from a very young age, since age 10, we got to hear some of those incidents from him,” he reveals.
 
 SAC feels that Traffic Ramaswamy is an angry person. “By angry, I don’t mean violent. He has anger, and those who are concerned about the society will definitely have this anger in them, especially after seeing the wrongs in it. It is this which is driving him now, even at 83! This film will shine a light on this remarkable man’s life and struggles,” he adds.
 
 Meanwhile, there have been reports that SAC’s son and actor, Vijay will also be part of this film. However, the director entirely dismisses these as rumours. “Vijay is not at all involved in the film. This is a risky project, and many cases that have been forgotten will now be under the spotlight. I haven’t even spoken to Vijay about this film. In fact, he came to know about this project only after reading these reports,” he states.
 
 
