BHOPAL:The school education department has decided to implement "no-work-no-pay" formula for absent teachers across the state government schools. The move is aimed to   of teachers.

 “Teachers whose attendance is below 70% in school, will be taken to task under ‘Kaam Nahin- Vetan Nahi’ (no-work-no-pay) basis. From this academic session onwards,” reads an official notification issued by the school education department on Saturday.
 
 Teacher absenteeism has hit academic activities in government schools in the state as reported through various surveys.   has been in headlines in the past after a teacher was found absent for 23 years out of a 24 year-long ‘teaching career’.
 
 “Salary of the teachers who remain on unauthorized leave or are absent from duty will not be released and action under rules would also be initiated against them. We will monitor the attendance through an app which all teachers are supposed to install in their phones. The smart application would record teacher’s attendance on a regular and real-time basis,” said   principal secretary, school education.
 
 She further added that as soon as the new session would begin, the department would go “tough” on teacher’s attendance.
 
 As per the instructions, extensive inspections will be carried out from state-level to the block level in this regard. Teachers will be required to compulsorily mark their attendance on m-Shiksha Mitra, an app made for the government school teachers for attendance, grievance and redressal.
 
 These inspections would be random and surprise. If any teacher is found absent without sanctioned leave or prior information, immediate deduction in salary or in the leave account will be done.
 
 Every school is supposed to have photographs and mobile phone numbers of all officially appointed teachers on display, for inspecting officials to check whether they are at work or not.
 
 Sources in the department told TOI that presently, less than 30% staff use the app as most are against the introduction of new technology and have asked for training. Some teachers have said buying a smartphone was unaffordable.
 
 Absence of teachers as per officials has directly affected the presence of students at school.
 
