BENGALURU: As a tapal   with the   (BDA), Ravi Kumar’s job is limited to receiving letters and despatching them to respective officials and sections. But he did much more than that. He allegedly allotted 14 sites, which were reserved for the poor, by forging signatures of his higher-ups and made money. 

 However, his luck ran out when Seshadripuram police tracked him and another worker Thippeswamy down on Monday night. They have allegedly allotted sites in various layouts using forged documents. On Tuesday, BDA officials told TOI that this is only the tip of the iceberg and there could be more such irregularities involving officials like him.
 
 BDA commissioner Rakesh Singh said they have ordered an internal inquiry. “The issue came to our notice during an internal audit. We are looking into more irregularities, if any,” he added.
 
 Sources said the sites were allotted in Kumaraswamy Layout of south Bengaluru and the land value is around Rs 8,000 per sqft. 
 
 
 
 
 H S Satish Babu, deputy secretary-2, BDA, in whose section Ravi Kumar allegedly committed the misdeeds, said: “In 2014, the state government had decided to vacate about 42 slum-dwellers from their habitat next to Kanakapura Road. Following this, the BDA allocated them 20X30 sqft sites. The allottees were supposed to enter a lease-cum-sale agreement with the BDA, paying a fixed amount per site to get the sites registered in their names. In the meantime, Ravi Kumar managed to forge the signatures of then deputy secretary Bhandari and one more officer. He might have promised the allottees to get things done faster.
 
 With the help of Thippeswamy, he took the documents to the sub-registrar’s office in the same building and completed registration illegally. Only a thorough probe can reveal how much money they made and what other irregularities they had indulged in. We will also check the status of other sites that have been allotted to slum-dwellers during the same time.” 
 
 The fraud came to light when one of the allottees approached Bhandari with a query and the latter was shocked to learn that the registration was done by forging his signature. “Bhandari called me to check what’s happening and we initiated an internal audit. After we learnt about the irregularities, a complaint was filed against the duo. Ravi Kumar was transferred to the law section of the BDA a month ago after some people complained against him. Thippeswamy had also been suspended in the past and the order was revoked later,” he added.
 
 
