Haveri: “I beg at the toll gate and in the markets of   to stay alive. I don’t have any option but to beg. I was harassed for being a  . Now, I will stop begging as I have some confidence that I can lead a respectable life in society,” said Neharika, a transgender.

 It was a joyous moment for many transgenders like Neharika on Wednesday in Haveri when   handed over   certificates for   to start their own businesses and lead a dignified life. The bank also trained 19 transgenders in  , apart from giving financial support.
 
 In a first in the country, Vijaya Bank has initiated steps to   across the country. All 19 transgenders from Haveri turned up to get their certificates and shared their joy with TOI. 
 
 “When I was a child, I was forced to leave home for being a transgender. I had to face many problems and one day, I was forced to become a   after a few people on the highway sexually abused me on the pretext of giving alms. It happened repeatedly in my life and gradually turned me into a sex worker. I have no qualms about claiming I am a sex worker as we are ignored by society. Now, I’ve got some hope that I can lead a respectable life like others. I plan to start a poultry unit with help from Vijaya Bank,” said Askhata K C, who got a loan.
 
 Laxmi S D of Haveri said that she had been begging for many years after she was thrown out of her home. “I would beg at functions, markets, and would dance to earn a  . I was chosen for the self-employment training by Vijaya Bank which went on for a week. Now I am entitled to get a loan of up to Rs 30,000 and Rs 20,000 in subsidy from the  . I will start dance classes for children by renting a small house in Haveri,”said Laxmi.
 
 “Vijaya Bank launched this ambitious scheme to help bring transgenders into   and train them for taking up self-employment for more than a week at our training institute. It’s a humble beginning to transform the lives of transgenders. We have trained 19 transgenders and given them loans, and will continue to train and rehabilitate transgenders. Vijaya Bank is perhaps the first bank in the country to take up such rehabilitation work, said  , managing director and CEO, Vijaya Bank.
 
 
