Chandigarh: India will open 40 consulate sub-offices in countries where the number of NRIs settled is on the higher side to provide better facilities and access to them. Besides, Punjabis settled abroad seeking political asylum would be allowed to visit the country. This was disclosed by Anandpur Sahib MP and SAD general secretary Prof Prem Singh Chandumajra, who has received a communication from the ministry of external affairs to this effect.

 Addressing a press conference here on Sunday, he said in countries like the US, Canada and Australia, NRIs had to travel long distances to get visa from the consulate offices. They had been demanding the setting up of more sub-offices in their respective countries. He said this step would go a long way in mitigating their problems.
 
 The government of India has also agreed to give relaxation to the people from Punjab who have settled abroad on political asylum. He said the government had informed him that they would be allowed to visit India, along with their families, for two years at a time. Chandumajra had been taking up the issues concerning the Indians settled abroad in general and the Punjabis in particular.
 
 He had earlier been pressing that they should be treated as cases of economic asylum seekers. He pointed out that a large number of people had sought political asylum in countries like the USA, Canada and Germany despite the fact that they were not active in the politics of militancy. However, once they were granted asylum on political ground, it became impossible for them to visit Punjab. He said he had been pressing the centre to treat such cases leniently. Chandumajra, besides writing letters to the external affairs ministries, has been raising this issue consistently in the Lok Sabha to provide relief to these people.
 
 Replying to questions about turmoil in AAP with its convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal facing allegations of corruption from within the party, he said Kejriwal must resign as he had been talking of morality and ethics in politics. Moreover, AAP had come up with the slogan of alternate politics on which it had miserably failed, he asserted.
 
 
