

 
 
 Not at all. Personally, I feel that films are not a medium of bringing about societal change; not directly at least. It is the viewers who can be affected by them and decide to bring about a change. Also, if films could change the society, honour killings, casteism, untouchability and numerous such practices would’ve been eradicated long ago. People like Shivaji Maharaj, Savitribai Phule and BR Ambedkar tried bringing about a change throughout their lives but the societal evils that they fought against are still prevalent. Society can’t change overnight; it’s a long process. As a filmmaker, if I can contribute to that process, I am happy but that doesn’t mean I will keep making social films forever.
 
 
 
 This is something that I find amusing. People underestimate the potential. There is a beautiful sher that explains this: ‘Koi toh apne nazar se hi dekhega, ek zarre ko samundar nazar aaye kaise?’ Just because a person has made a particular kind of films in the past, doesn’t mean he can’t do anything else.
 If I see potential in a story and feel like directing a fantasy, I surely will. In fact, I have stories that if they come alive on screen, might be perceived as anti-social. So when I make those films, would you not watch them because they are anti-social?
 
 
 
 I think the CBFC is a very childish concept altogether. There are films that have been stuck because of certain abusive words in them as the CBFC thinks these can harm the society. Does that mean we don’t use abuses in day-to-day life? So, isn’t censoring akin to moral-policing? This approach has also resulted in a lot of filmmakers, me included, having to think twice before presenting a good story for viewers. And this is not healthy.
  
 
 
 I read anything that I can lay my hands on, irrespective of the genre or scope. Be it Namdev Dhasal’s poems or GA Kulkarni’s stories or works of philosophers and thinkers like Albert Camus, Jean-Paul Sartre, Anton Chekhov and Fyodor Dostoyevsky, I read everything. Of late, I have even started reading scientific books because in school I was considered a dimwit and never really focused on reading so much. In a way, I am schooling myself with different ideologies and ideas nowadays.
 
  
  
 
 I am not a method actor. When someone gives me a role, I read it and go with what thoughts come to my mind about the character first. As for working with Anjali and Raghubir in  's 'The Silence', it was a great experience. I have followed Anjali’s work since the time both of us were students at the Pune University. She is someone who has broken the fair-skin obsession of the film industry with her beauty and performances. I remember watching her play during my college days and telling my friend that she will become a fantastic actor. She proved my words right.
 
 As far as my acting is considered, I follow the director because being one, I know that directors don’t like over-smart actors (laughs).
 
 
 
 No, it’s not. My tryst with filmmaking was an accident. Mr Bachchan was not the reason I ventured into filmmaking but he is surely a big reason behind me loving films. During my growing up years, watching films was a luxury but it was my hobby as well. And I admired Mr Bachchan, but who doesn’t?
 
  
  
 
 To put it simply, I am thrilled. In fact, even now I can’t believe that I am working with him; it feels like a dream. Throughout our primary meetings, I kept pinching myself to confirm if this was happening for real. It is only after I put up the photo with him on my social media profiles that the realisation has started sinking in.
  
 
 
 Directing, because it gives me the liberty to present my thoughts and ideas and it is my medium of expression. As an actor, you follow someone else’s directions and I can’t do that after a point, unless you can present your thoughts through the role.
 
