PANAJI: Despite a considerable amount of   in industrial areas, the state’s water resources department (WRD) has recorded an increase in net ground   In its latest survey, jointly carried out by the  , south-western region, Bengaluru, in 2013, Goa’s ground water level was found to be 14,625 hectare metres (HAM), a marginal rise from the 14,543 HAM registered in 2011. The study has consequently placed ground water levels in the state’s 11 talukas under the ‘safe’ category. 

 “Goa’s groundwater table is assessed once every three years. In our latest survey, we found that ground water development itself, which stood at 28% in 2011, rose to 37% in 2013. The increase can be attributed to a number of factors, primary among them being the construction of around 368 bandharas across the state having a total storage capacity of approximately 400 lakh cubic feet per second (cusec) of water. This water is good for both, irrigation as well as  , lessening the   and helping recharge the ground water table as a result,” WRD’s chief surveyor, Anant Bhagwat, said.
 
 The latest joint study also involved a change in the methodology. For instance, hilly areas with a gradient of over 20% were excluded from the rest of the areas and were analysed separately. Also, season-wise assessment was undertaken for each sub-area and allocation for domestic and industrial use was based on population density and relative load on ground water for these purposes.
 
 Bhagwat also said that the WRD has been keeping a close check on ground water levels in a bid to curb the menace of illegal water extraction that has been nudging the table in areas such as Verna and parts of the Mormugao taluka to semi-critical levels. “Under the Ground Water Act, the registration of wells is compulsory and the construction of new wells is only permissible once due approvals are received. We also provide subsidies towards this end,” he said, adding, “We found ground water exploitation to be particularly high in parts of the Mormugao taluka and Verna due to the presence of industries.” 
 
 The increase can be attributed to a number of factors, primary among them being the construction of around 368 bandharas across the state having a total storage capacity of approximately 400 lakh cubic foot per second (cusec) of water
 
 
