GUWAHATI: After Bangladesh Prime Minister   concluded her four-day visit to the country on Monday, former chief ministers of the state Tarun Gogoi and   on Tuesday have lashed out at Prime Minister Narendra Modi for not discussing any issue related to the state or the northeast with his Bangladesh counterpart. 

 Sheikh Hasina signed 22 accords with PM Modi but the issue of Bangladeshi infiltration did not come up, Gogoi said. "Narendra Modi as a PM candidate before election on record was telling the voters of Assam that all foreigners would have to pack up after May, 2014. However, when Sheikh Hasina came to India, the matter has not been taken up. Doesn't this smack of that the problem of foreigners in Assam is just an election issue for the  ," Gogoi tweeted on Tuesday. 
 
 Gogoi was also critical of Modi for not inviting any of the chief ministers from the northeast to Delhi during Hasina's visit. "Earlier, all CMs of NE states were invited to New Delhi during the visit of Bangladesh PM as the region have many issues to sort out with the neighbouring country. However, this time, Modi hasn't felt like inviting the CMs from the region," Gogoi added.
 
 Asom Gana Parishad's founder-president and two-time CM Prafulla Kumar Mahanta was also displeased with the way things turned out. "This is very unfortunate," Mahanta told TOI on Tuesday. AGP is an ally of BJP in the state government. Earlier, Mahanta had said the Indian government has never formally informed the Bangladesh government of the "infiltration problem" faced by the state.
 
  also slammed Modi for not having "goodwill" towards the region. "They discuss the Teesta but not a single word was uttered on the Brahmaputra. There are open areas along the river in the border areas. There should have been discussions on how to seal it. But there were no talks on it," said AIUDF spokesperson Rafiqul Islam. He added that if minorities in Bangladesh are not safe, as BJP claims, Modi should have asked Hasina to take care of the issue.
 
