LUCKNOW: Announcement of former state minister  's to form a separate 'Secular Samajwadi Morcha' headed by his elder brother and   patriarch   has put Mayawati-led BSP in a dilemma over whether or not to get into a larger anti-BJP alliance that has SP at the helm. 

 The BSP top brass is learnt to be worried about Shivpal's plan to create a separate political entity as it could potentially weaken SP headed by Mulayam's son   and in turn defeat the very purpose of the much anticipated anti-BJP front ahead of 2019   elections.
 
 Roundly decimated at the hands of BJP in the UP assembly elections,   had announced she was not averse to getting into an alliance with the SP and the Congress to take on BJP. BSP sources now admit that Mayawati may be forced to reconsider her decision of getting into an alliance if at all Shivpal manages to create a separate political outfit away from the parent SP. 
 
 The BSP chief, during her meetings with party functionaries in Lucknow had stated she would assess the 'Janadhaar' (people's support) to SP and Congress before taking a final call on getting into an alliance with the two parties or either of them.
 
 "The core vote bank of SP stands to loosen, if not divided completely, if Shivpal breaks away or even gets expelled from the party. That could harm the prospects of an anti-BJP front comprising SP-BSP and the Congress,'' said a senior BSP leader close to Mayawati. He said 'Behenji' may not like to be part of an alliance that is hit by internal acrimony at any level.
 
 With 22.23% vote share and 19 seats, BSP had faced a complete rout in UP assembly elections and has since been contemplating to recover itself by getting into an alliance with the SP and Congress. BSP's worries had been compounded by insufficient number of assembly seats to send its chief Mayawati to Rajya Sabha when her term expires in April next year.
 
 Political experts said SP and BSP seek to get into the alliance to retrieve some of their vote bank that shifted to a resurgent BJP. The BSP chief, sources said, was now keeping a close watch on developments within the SP camp that continues to struggle in the wake of an escalating tensions between Akhilesh and his uncle Shivpal. "Keeping the two warring leaders together in any sort of alliance appears very hard at this point in time,'' said a senior BSP leader. 
 
 
