BHOPAL: Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) will conduct a research to find out some tribes in Madhya Pradesh are genetically predisposed to   ( ). The ICMR’s state-of-art diagnostics van will go to tribal areas and a team from the council and MP department of health and family welfare will try to find out answer for the same.

 Sample this: one study estimated that prevalence of TB in Saharia tribe of MP is 2,156 per lakh in males. It is 10 times higher compared with TB prevalence in Baiga tribe. A 2008 study of Bharia tribe placed its TB incidence at 432 per lakh. Experts do point out economic situation could be a factor in case of Saharia tribe. Prevalence of TB in MP was 133 per lakh in 2015. It is expected to reach 145 per lakh for 2016.
 
 Without concrete studies, the government intervention has had a marginal effect in control of TB among affected tribes. As per an ICMR research paper, there is no nationwide TB burden estimates available for tribal population. One of the most comprehensive data estimates by National Sample Survey for TB carried out between 1955 and 1958 did not include tribal groups.
 
 “The focus of programme is on detection and cure of unreached. The ICMR will carry out research on genetic predisposition in tribal areas in the research,” said Union government’s department of health research (DHR) joint secretary and ICMR director Dr Soumya Swaminathan. 
 
 There are no studies that clearly establish link of TB with genetics. Some individuals have a genetic predisposition to TB. However, TB is multi-factorial and linked with environmental factors, poverty and similar factors, she clarified.
 
 Equipped with sputum microscope and X-ray and a doctor, an ICMR van will roll out in four districts of MP. The inauguration is slated for January 22 at Kanha in the presence of Union minister of state for health and family welfare Faggan Singh Kulaste. Eight vans with ICMR researchers will focus on Alirajpur, Barwani, Jhabua and Dindori districts.
 
 In MP, an active case finding drive would take place from January 17, said state TB officer Dr Atul Kharate. The ‘reach to unreached’ campaign will be held in Indore, Hoshangabad and Mandla. In February, all eight districts of Gwalior division will be targeted to improve detection of TB.
 
 Experts indicate there is great heterogeneity (diversity) across different tribal groups, which includes a sub-category of particularly vulnerable tribes known as primitive tribes that will be studied.   face a number of health risks, including infant and maternal mortality, malnutrition, anaemia and malaria.
 
 
