THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Congress leaders, including   president V M Sudheeran and leader of the opposition Ramesh Chennithala have on Tuesday, criticised the state government for not mentioning the name of Mahatma Gandhi in the official circular issued in connection with the ensuing Martyrs’ Day, which falls on January 30.

 According to V M Sudheeran, the state government’s decision was similar to the action of the Modi regime, which had also avoided Gandiji’s picture in the Khadi calendar.
 
 Talking to media here, Sudheeran said the circular issued by the general administration department to communicate the details of the programmes on January 30, just mentions that those who laid their lives during the freedom struggle were being remembered on that day.
 
 The circular also mentions that two-minute silence should be observed on that day as a mark of respect to the martyrs. However, the circular doesn’t mention anything about Mahatma Gandhi, even though the day is observed as Martyrs’ Day as it is the death anniversary of the Father of the Nation, Sudheeran pointed out.
 
 The KPCC president alleged that it cannot be an accidental slip, as the general administration department officials must be definitely aware that it was on this day that Mahatma Gandhi was assassinated in 1948. The department issues a circular only after higher ups like chief minister vets it, he said.
 
 “The   government seems to be keen on following the footsteps of Modi, which has avoided using Mahatma Gandhi’s picture on the cover of the diary of the Khadi and  , the KPCC president alleged. “It is a major mistake and the LDF government should urgently withdraw the circular,’’ Sudheeran demanded.
 
 Leader of the opposition Ramesh Chennithala too said Pinarayi Vijayan is following the path of Modi in humiliating  .
 
 “It is strange that after Modi now Pinarayi Vijayan is also campaigning against Mahatma Gandhi. The government should immediately rectify this mistake and should issue a new order,’’ said Chennithala.
 
 The order is addressed to all department heads urging them to lead the employees of their respective departments in observing a two-minute silence.
 
 
