NAGPUR: Nagpur traffic police action against drunk driving in the city was the toughest in the state on the occasion of Holi. While city cops registered 1,208 cases on March 12 (eve of Holi) and March 13 (on Holi), Mumbai and   booked only 368 and 352 drivers respectively for driving under the influence of liquor during the same period. 

 Mixing celebrations with driving proved costly for 1,208 violators as for the first time the traffic police detained all the vehicles, which also included two ambulances.
 
 “For the last couple of years, our effort was concentrated on preventing accidents,” deputy commissioner of police (traffic)   told TOI. This year too, the drive did have a positive impact. The city reported only one accidents on Monday and it occurred under the jurisdiction of   police station, said a senior official of the police information centre.
 
 Armed with breathalysers, traffic police stood at major intersections, taking motorists by surprise. The campaign reached its peak between 2pm and 4pm and ended at around 9pm.
 
 Perhaps, it was first time that the traffic police did not only register such a large number of drunken driving cases but also detained their vehicles. A majority of those charged were in the age group of 20 to 50 years and most were two-wheeler riders.
 
 Men in white shirts and khaki pants were out for crackdown on traffic offenders on both days for over five hours. It was the largest number of drunken driving cases ever registered during daytime and also during Holi celebrations in the last couple of years. In 2014, 2015 and 2016, police booked 1,016, 1,053 and 1,232 persons respectively for indulging in drunk driving.
 
 Sources said that the city traffic police had planned the traffic arrangements very well as cops were seen patrolling on all major roads. Besides, the traffic police had also closed all major flyovers across the city.
 
 In the last 48 hours from March 12 to March 13, most number of cases were recorded in Chamber-II with 312 motorists booked for driving under the influence of liquor. It was followed by 302 in Chamber-IV, 242 in Chamber-V, 241 in Chamber –III and 111 in Chamber-I, respectively. Traffic cops also faced protests in many areas as, according to them, at least 50 motorists tried to argue with police when they were stopped for checking. “When the motorists were asked to undergo breathalyser tests, they admitted having consumed liquor,” a senior police officer said.
 
 Besides this, the police also penalized motorists both two and four-wheeler riders/drivers for indulging in rash and negligent driving. On March 12 and 13, it had booked over 542 motorists under this violation. Chamber-I registered maximum number of cases with 290, followed by Chamber-II with 87 and Chamber-IV with 58 cases, respectively. Chamber-V and Chamber-III booked 57 and 50 motorists for indulging in rash driving, revealed the statistics of traffic police. 
 
 
