NAGPUR: With the introduction of Goods and Services Tax (GST), the government has ensured that there was no gaps to evade it and brought everyone within its ambit, said  , national president of Confederation of All Indian Traders (CAIT), on Saturday.

 Delivering a lecture organized by NGO Janmanch at Baburao Dhanwate Hall, Shankar Nagar, to clear doubts of consumers and understand concept behind the new tax regime, Bhartia said that compliance of GST will now be the top priority of the government. Under the old tax laws, the government was finding it difficult to determine whether the movement of goods from a particular entity is a sale or not, he added. 
 
 Bhartia said, “Many people did not record sales and most goods were shifted on approval which did not amount to sale. So, the government decided to make supple of goods taxable. If goods are moved from your place of business, it is considered a supply and is therefore taxable.”
 
 GST in itself is not a tax but a law. It comprises three types of taxes —   charged by the central government,   by the state governments and IGST on interstate supply of goods, Bhartia said. He cautioned the audience saying, “If a trader gives you a bill which mentions ‘GST’, then it is fake. You will always find CGST and SGST charges on all bills.”
 
 Explaining the concept, Bhartia said, “Old taxes like value added tax (VAT), sales tax and central excise duty have been subsumed in GST. Even though the new tax rates at 18% and 28% seem a lot, we must understand that under the previous law, most taxes were not visible to us. At the most, we could see VAT which was 12%. There is no real difference as far as the customer is concerned.”
 
 “From traders’ point of view, there is a difference since their cost of doing business will come down due to input tax credit (ITC) they will receive,” Bhartia said. The concept of   saying, “When a trader purchases goods from a manufacturer, the price he pays is inclusive of GST. The trader, while selling the goods at a profit to the end consumer, will also charge GST. Since he has already paid GST on his purchase, he will be rebated for the amount he paid, but will have to pay GST on the profit he earned.”
 
 
