Sometimes it takes students to enlighten the teachers. That’s what transpired at the  , Thrissur, a few days ago. When the staff of the Mechanical Department demanded for an annex building for a laboratory without considering how many trees will have to be cut for the plot, the students took a stand, by saying, “No, we don’t mind walking a bit, if it means the ecosystem and trees in the campus is maintained!” 

  Last Tuesday, as per the order of the college principal, a group of tree cutters had come to the campus to fell 40 trees which were on the plot that was allotted for the new building. They arrived at 9 am, before the students reached the campus, and by the time the news reached the students, two trees were already cut. However, the student protestors quickly gathered, and managed to bring their plan to a halt.
 
 “We saved 38 trees,” says third year student Renju Raj, a member of Campus Science Forum. “They thought they could cut off all the trees before we came for classes.”
  So, why are the college authorities hell-bent on building a block by harming the ecosystem? Assistant professor Aneesh Hydari says, “Every other engineering branch has proper buildings and a planned infrastructure, but the Mechanical department is lacking in them. We need to provide proper facilities to the students including a well-maintained workshop and a library. A block comprising these facilities should be built, as we have more UG, PG and PhD students in the department.”
  The proposed plan is to demolish the existing mechanical engineering building and build a new block in an extended area, he says. “The plan has already been approved by the Public Works Department, Forest Department and even the government. Nothing would happen if a bit of the ecosystem is disturbed for the development and future of the department,” he says, adding that it is mere politics that is making the students protest. 
 
 The students, however, are not convinced about the reasons. Renju says that there is a plot of barren land a few meters away from the planned space. “We have been asking them to construct the building there but the teachers insist they need all the buildings of the Mechanical Engineering Department should be in a self-contained block,” he explains. “We are not against development, but we need sustainable development.” Supporting him, third year student Nikhil Govind says, “The staff are more concerned about the development of the block; but for us students, it’s all about conserving the ecosystem.”
 
  Nikhil and his friends say that the campus is home to many species of animals and birds. “You can spot a variety of them, from hedgehogs to peacocks here. The trees not only provide refuge to these species but also shade to the campus,” he says. “We are already facing a lot of water scarcity. Can you imagine what will happen if the only trees left are also cut in lieu for concrete buildings? We do not inherit the earth, and do not have any right to destroy it.” 
 
  This is not the first such instance on the campus, environmentalist Jose T Joseph, former president of Campus Science Forum District committee, Thrissur says. “Seven years ago, a similar protest was held when the college planned to chop down trees, which were more than hundred years old, for another building. The students got a stay order and the building was constructed in a different area,” he says. Last year too, following the protests of students, the Forest Department and the Social Forestry Department had cancelled the sanction for construction at the current site. “However, this time, the people concerned managed to convince the principal to moot the idea,” says Jose. 
 
 The college authorities though seem adamant about executing the plan despite the students’ protest. In 2015, a fund of `3 crores was granted to improve the infrastructure of Mechanical Department.
 
 Principal-in-charge Haneef Mohammed says, “We should build it as early as possible or else the fund will lapse. The PWD can start the construction only if we clear the area. There are only a few tamarind, Vatta and palm trees at the site. It is true that there are other barren spaces in the campus but they are all scattered and a department’s functioning will be affected if the labs and classrooms are spread in different areas. We will plant trees for sure, to compensate what we cut down.”
  Divisional Forest officer A Jayamadhavan, who had sanctioned the plot for construction, tell us that it was a decision taken by the committee which include the Mayor and also some social figures. “I sanctioned it considering their requirements and also understood that there is no better plot for them,” he says. “Yes, trees will have to be chopped. But they have guaranteed that for each tree, ten trees will be planted.”
 
  Meanwhile, Jose says. “The syllabus talks about sustainable engineering but they are asking for destruction. It is ironical that the same teachers who promote planting trees on environment day, are now allowing fully grown trees to be cut!” 
 
 
