PANAJI: Days after BJP chief minister   in his   promised to notify Regional Plan 2021 by December 2017, the minister for town and country planning   appeared skeptical over the deadline. Even as Sardesai said that a special meeting with Parrikar would be held on April 19 with TCP officials to decide on the fate of Regional Plan 2021, the former appeared to build a case for Regional Plan 2031.

 “My question to the TCP is straight. Do they have the capacity to plan and implement the regional plan? What they have not been able to do in the last few years, can they complete in nine months? It does not appear realistic,” Sardesai said.
 
 Sardesai questioned the wisdom of focusing on a regional plan that was relevant only for four years and suggested that it could be time to consider formulating a regional plan catering to a decade.
 
 Claiming that he was just thinking out aloud, the minister clearly expressed his displeasure over the department’s functioning. In a meeting with department officials, Sardesai questioned the department’s ability to implement the Goa (Right of Citizens to Time-bound Delivery of Public Services) Act, 2013. Sardesai has urged the department to ensure that approvals are given within 45 days of application.
 
 “It appears that TCP is focused on real estate  .   dwelling has no focus. My goal is to simplify the process for the average Goan. The public grievance system has to be revamped. When concerns and grievances are raised by several quarters, the reply has to be given in 10 days. This is my first direction to them. Second is to focus on single-family dwelling. Within 45 days, any applicant must get his approvals come what may,” the minister said.
 
 Sardesai has suggested that TCP implement a biometric attendance system to bring accountability. He has proposed to incentivize housing and commercial projects which adhere or promote   and heritage.
 
 “I have asked TCP to give me a detailed note, what kind of incentive can be given to builders to make Goa look different. Homes that follow Goa’s architecture or certain colours could get additional FAR or some incentives. This can promote Goan architecture,” Sardessai said.
 
