SURAT: Even as Surat marches towards being a Smart City, basic public utility spaces remain quite a dumb sight. Footpaths in all prominent areas of Surat have been usurped as either parking spaces or by food stalls. From Science Centre to Sagrampura, from   to Ring Road, it is difficult to get even a glimpse of the existent footpaths. It is little wonder then, that according to the NCRB, Surat accounts for more pedestrian deaths than anywhere else in Gujarat.

 Senior citizen and prominent city architect Tarun Dave says, “There is   on Ghod Dod Road, the footpaths here have been converted into parking spaces by customers who shop at the retail stores. It is impossible to go for a stroll in the evening, one can do so only at one’s risk.”
 
 More than 25,000 people shop at hundreds of retail outlets on either side of Surat’s Ghod Dod Road on a daily basis. Once a straight stretch for racing horses, it is now a street where, two, three, and four-wheelers zoom and blare horns with little regard to passersby.
 
 Traffic jams are constantly caused at spaces where the roads narrow down due to beginning of flyovers. While bottlenecks caused due to this design fault resulting in a commotion of cars, it is impossible for pedestrians to gain access across the road in this busy area where children attend classes held within shopping complexes. 
 
 “Forget only senior citizens or children finding it difficult, even teenagers and adults find it challenging while trying to cross any of the intersecting roads on foot,” says  , a student who commutes through Parle Point and City Light on a daily basis.
 
 While pay-and-park facility available under flyovers and at an SMC owned plot here, the vast amount of vehicles clearly outnumber the space, usurping footpaths as a result. Similar is the case outside the new court building in   as well as the area outside Nagrik Suvidha Kendra. Few fear the tow-way truck that makes a couple of rounds every morning and evening. A negotiable fine anywhere between 50 and 150, is an amount Surtis do not hesitate paying up in exchange of convenient parking in front of the shopping complex they wish to visit.
 
 Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC)’s town development officer, Manish Doctor says, “It is becoming increasingly impossible to rein in Surat’s growing vehicular population. SMC and Surat police force have joined hands and taken up a mission to update the parking policy. While special provisions will be made for roadside parking, stricter fines and rules will be implemented. We are even considering legal action against shoppers as well as shopping centre owners who break the laws. Optimum space should be provided and put to use at all complexes. Fresh signs to indicate availability of basement parking at shopping centres will also be put up. Without public discipline, it is impossible to put to use the benefit of provided infrastructure.”
 
 However, SMC itself is known to have put up goods stalls at the footpath outside Nari Saurakshan Gruh during Navratri Mela and other festivals, which block the busstop used by the Blind School students in the Ghod Dod Road area. 
 
 Vina Sojitra who lives close by says, “Whenever we propose a ramp for the differently abled, an extra step for the elderly or parking at the footpath outside our road facing building, officials of the SMC threaten action on what they call is ‘their property’ and now, then, they go ahead and hold sale stalls on the same!”
 
 
