SHIMLA: Blame it on the failure of the town and planning department to hire a consultant, but the state government has not been able to comply with the National Green   (NGT) direction to conduct a survey and submit a report on the carrying capacity of areas from Vashisht and beyond  . NGT had issued the order on August 19 last year. 

 The department had started the hiring process to conduct the survey for studying the carrying capacity from   to Rohtang Pass and from Rohtang Pass to Koksar (  district) in Himachal Pradesh. In March this year, proposals were invited by May 2, which was the last date for submission of request for proposal document. Not a single consultant has approached the department. 
 
 A senior official of the department said that since their efforts have drawn a blank, the tribunal would be apprised of the matter. The official said the state government too would be informed in writing and steps would be sought for an alternative. 
 
 During the course of hearing on Rohtang Pass pollution case, the tribunal was informed by the local commissioners that the chaos in Manali would also exist in the areas at Rohtang Pass and beyond particularly Lahaul-Spiti if appropriate regulatory steps are not taken and precautionary principle is not invoked in the state. According to them, the tunnel at   from Solang to Lahaul-Spiti Valley is scheduled to be commissioned in 2017 and a lot of unregulated shops and buildings will be built, adjacent to the road, resulting in traffic congestion, environmental degradation and possibility of natural calamities.
 
 While directing the state government to conduct a survey, the tribunal had prohibited any construction within 20 meters from the edge of the road and had asked the government to submit regulatory steps to prevent construction along the roads or immediately adjacent to the road. 
 
 Heavy influx of tourists at Rohtang pass has taken its toll on the fragile ecology and glaciers in the surroundings. Dr J C Kuniyal, Scientist-E and Kireet Kumar, Scientist-G from GB Pant Institute of Himalayan Environment and Development had informed the Tribunal on July 6, 2015 that glaciers around Rohtang Pass had been receding at the rate of 19 – 20 meters per year. 
 
 They had also informed that main sources of pollution were vehicular traffic, fuel burning, open burning of waste, forest fires and pollution caused by human interference and activities in addition to the waste that is thrown in this area indiscriminately.
 
