CUTTACK: The inconvenience caused to people during the five hour hartal called by ruling   on September 18, against the rising prices of  , has now come under the scanner of  .

 A social campaigner   on Monday filed a PIL in Orissa high court seeking compensation from BJD president and chief minister   for the damages caused to individuals and public sectors during the hartal.
 
 The petitioner has alleged that due to the unconstitutional and illegal act of BJD, innocent persons across the state suffered. There was largescale destruction of public and private properties by the BJD workers, however, the state government has taken no action against them.
 
 The petitioner alleged that in the name of hartal, BJD workers blocked roads, obstructed ambulances and paralysed essential services. Shops, offices and even schools and colleges were also closed forcefully and the BJD workers humiliated and assaulted public. During the hartal, BJD workers damaged vehicles and properties of innocent persons, which is not acceptable at all.
 
 Seeking high court’s intervention in the matter, the petitioner has prayed that the damages should be recovered from the organizers of the hartal. “As Naveen Patnaik is the chief of the party the damages caused by his party activists should be realized by him,” urged the petitioner.
 
 He has further highlighted there is a clear cut guideline of Supreme Court that hartal should not infringe anyone’s fundamental rights and it cannot be enforced on common man.
 
 The petitioner alleged that blatantly violating the guidelines of the Apex court, BJD workers showed hooliganism on the streets on September 18. People were unnecessarily harassed so they should be properly compensated for it by organizers of the hartal, cited the petitioner. Satapathy has alleged that fundamental rights guaranteed under section 14, 19 and 21 were violated during the hartal.
 
 BJD president Naveen Patnaik, secretaries of home department, higher education department and school and mass education department and state’s director general of police have been made parties in the case.
 
 “We have prayed the court to direct secretaries of the three departments to assess the damage caused to the public during the hartal and realize the same amount from Naveen Patnaik within a stipulated time,” said A Das, petitioner’s counsel.
 
