TRICHY: Station managers and health officials need to buckle up and monitor the cleaning work undertaken by private contractors if   stations in   and Kumbakonam are to salvage their lost glory. They should also coordinate with civic authorities in keeping areas outside stations clean. These were some of the opinions aired by passengers and other stake holders on the stunning plunge taken by stations in the Trichy division in the Swachh cleanliness survey released recently. 

 The report released by railways had rated the cleanliness of station premises of Trichy as well as Kumbakonam railway stations as better but not the surroundings. Since the cleaning operation is done by private contractors, passengers say better supervision by the respective station manager and health officials is necessary. 
 
 “The scores clearly state that there is no problem with the inside of the stations as shown by the 85.09 per cent scored by the main platform and waiting rooms. However, the main entry managed to get only 50.05 percent while it was a mere 30.03 percent for parking area,” said Deva, a regular passenger at Trichy. The authorities should spread their vision and execute the work according to the needs of a railway junction, he said.
 
 Since cleaning operation is undertaken by private contractors at the major stations, railways should have better coordination with civic authorities in providing cleanliness outside the station. Similarly, the drainage should be connected to the corporation’s underground drainage system wherever it has not been done. Kumbakonam ranking was dragged down because of the mosquito menace”, said A Giri, vice-president, Thanjavur District Rail Users Association. 
 
 It is pointed out that Trichy junction secured the best station award 20 years ago. What bogs down the station now is the large number of shops which needs to be reduced. Washing of trains also must be done during the night instead of mornings. “Trichy looks crowded because of too many advertisement hoardings and boards. Thanks to the senior divisional commercial manager’s efforts, the posters have come down. It should be completely removed,” says S Pushpavanam, secretary of  ,  . “Passengers can be educated but only if railways keep dustbins will they dump the garbage there. There is no point in educating passengers without keeping dust bins”, he added.
 
 Railways should provide additional facilities in top ranking station for imparting cleanliness from their own budget without being under the mercy of MPLADs, Giri added. “Instead of going for an advertisement on train tickets and reservation forms, they can come out with cleanliness awareness in that space. Railways can engage NSS volunteers from schools and colleges to bring about more awareness on cleanliness among rail users”, he further said.
 
 A regular commuter, Jegan, 25, from Deeran Nagar said priority should be given for establishing rest rooms on all platforms. The next priority should be for purified drinking water kiosks. “ In Trichy we have only two, that too on platform number one only. That is not enough,” he said. “A mechanism needs to be there to curb usage of toilets on trains at platforms. All these are possible only if the travelling public comply with railway's requests”, he further said.
 
 
