While the BJP is trying to woo the two   for the  , Union minister   says the   is inactive and in bad shape. The Centre, however, wants all state governments to complete their terms, and that includes the AIADMK government, the BJP leader tells TOI in an interview on Saturday. Excerpts:

 The DMK is planning to bring together anti-BJP leaders on M Karunanidhi’s birthday on June 3 ... 
 
 The DMK, which has been sidelined, longs for support. The event that they have planned is not to celebrate the leader’s birthday but to make use of him. In an attempt to hide its weakness, the party has invited all those who lost people’s support. It is so desperate. 
 
 How strong is BJP in the state? 
 
 It is growing fast. We wish to get a good number of cadres from the AIADMK, DMK and others. Our mission is to create a new Tamil Nadu under the BJP’s leadership for higher growth and prosperity.
 
 Why did BJP national president Amit Shah postpone his TN visit?
 
 We were ready, but the situation was not conducive in Delhi. We expect him to come in June. The objective of his visit is to strengthen the party here on the lines of our success in Manipur. We have got our vote share increased in Kerala and won municipal elections in Delhi. We will do the same in Tamil Nadu too.
 
 Will you seek support from the AIADMK for Presidential polls?
 
 All parties should support the BJP. Personally, I would like to see no election for the coveted post since a highly qualified candidate is going to be fielded. We hope the parties act as per their conscience.
 
 There have been allegations that the Centre is behind I-T raids and cases on some ministers and bureaucrats.
 
 Look, our government does not interfere in I-T’s functions. They raided some places based on information they got. We have nothing to say.
 
 How do you rate the AIADMK government?
 
 The BJP does not want any state government to fall. We want the AIADMK government to complete its term. We want a stable and efficient government. But if it falls, it will be because of internal problems. The state government remains inactive and in a bad shape. It is neither attracting investments nor doing enough to retain industries. Many are ready to go away. Here is a situation where even Tamils don’t want to do business in Tamil Nadu. The state has to make its actions transparent. A   comes out in the open to level charges against a minister and I am happy for her guts. Ironically, the chief minister has still not opened his mouth on the possible action against the minster. 
 
 What do you think of OPS? 
 
 I don’t want to comment. Things that should not happen are happening there (AIADMK). They will have to decide (on merger) and I will be happy if they unite.
 
 
