JAIPUR: Nine   in past 35 days in   but not a single word of sympathy has come from  , said   (PCC) chief   while addressing his party workers at Banswara on Wednesday.

 “We will not let the state government sit with ease. Anyone who plays with the lives of farmers will not be spared,”   said, as he claimed that the farmers’ rally called at Banswara on July 19 would send a message of Congress’s strong solidarity with the peasant community across India.
 
 Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi is scheduled to address the farmers’ rally, the preparations for which were reviewed by Pilot at Badodia near Banswara on Wednesday. Banswara is part of Rajasthan’s Vagad region in the south, while most of the farmers who committed suicides in past one month were from Hadauti region in the east. The latest farmer suicide was reported from Dausa district on Tuesday.
 
 “Nothing can be graver than this. Farmers in the state have been pushed to the brink where they see no hope. Men who have children and families are finding themselves as helpless and committing suicides,” said Pilot. 
 
 He added, “We need to understand the mental state of distressed people who are taking the extreme step. Last year, more than 60 farmers committed suicides. This has happened never before in Rajasthan.”
 
 The Congress leader held the BJP government responsible for farmer suicides. “The government has neither been able to provide seeds and fertilizers on time nor has it been able to give them fair price of the crop. Farmers have no option but to sell their produce at a low price and, thus, are unable to pay agriculture loans,” Pilot said.
 
 He added, “People gave unprecedented support to BJP and helped it form government not only in the state but at the Centre too. Yet, the party has so miserably failed them. Farmers across the country are protesting and the BJP government is firing at them.”
 
 The Congress leader said his party would continue to protest until the state government waives the farmers’ loans, just as the Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra and Punjab governments have done.
 
 
