KOLKATA: Actress   lodged a complaint on Tuesday alleging that gold ornaments worth several lakhs kept in a steel almirah at her mother’s apartment on   were stolen.

 According to the complaint, the actress’s mother, Nandita, 75, opened the almirah locker on Tuesday afternoon to find the jewellery, kept in as many as 15 boxes, missing. “They were very old, heavy and priceless. Some of them belonged to my mother. She wore them when she had got married. Some of them were mine and some belonged to my sister-in-law. She doesn’t remember when did she last check on the jewellery but on Tuesday she found the boxes empty,” said Sengupta.
 
 The elderly woman lives on the fifth floor of an apartment on   with his son and daughter-in-law. They also have two lady domestic helps. “The two helps are staying here for a long time. One of them is employed here for the past 20 years while another one is working for the past 10 years. We don’t really suspect them,” she said.
 
 “Since my mother is aged, she doesn’t go to the bank locker frequently. She had kept her jewellery at home. When she opened the locker of her almirah on Tuesday, she found four traditional jewellery sets missing. That included her sitahar and jorowa sets. These ornaments had a lot of vintage and emotional value for all of us. Few designs were Victorian. She had planned to gift them to her grandchildren or daughter-in-law. Even the mantasa that I got for my wedding is gone,” she added. 
 
 Sengupta added she can’t fathom who is behind this robbery. “Whoever it is must have known everything about the house well. Some years back, there was a theft in my house. But my mother’s place is very secure. The culprit also took approximately Rs 15,000 in cash. He or she just left behind some earrings,” she added.
 
 Police investigating into the case said there was no signs of ransacking of the almirah and even the locker’s lock was unbroken. “It looks like someone who had access to the keys had opened the lock and had taken out the jewellery,” said an officer of   police station.
 
