COIMBATORE: Jamila looked on helplessly as the house where she lived for over 40 years was demolished on Tuesday. “When I got married I came to this house. I am very sad that it has been razed down,” said the 45-year-old woman. K M Naseer, another resident, was equally emotional. “We settled here 72 years ago. If Hindus and Muslims lived in harmony, it was in this place. We have a temple and a masjid close to each other and we celebrated one another’s festivals with fervour,” said Naseer.

 Around 630 encroaching houses in five locations in the city were demolished by the city municipal corporation with the support of the   and the city police department. This was part of a drive to remove all encroachments in the city. “We have shortlisted 1,418 houses in 18 locations in the city. We have allotted homes to all of them and have disconnected their sewage and electricity connections. This is the first phase. In a few days, the remaining houses will also be demolished,” said town planning officer, Coimbatore corporation, Ravichandran. 
 
 On Tuesday alone, 377 houses located at Anaimedu near Athupalam, 66 houses in Muthu Colony, 75 houses at Cheran Nagar and 45 houses at Azad Nagar were demolished and the occupants evicted. “After the demolition, we will clear the debris and widen the canals of the Noyyal river to ensure that water flows to the Kurichi and   tanks,” said a slum clearance board official. He added that farmers had been petitioning the collector for the past decade, requesting them to remove the encroachments so that water could flow through the canals and reach the Vellalore tank. 
 
 Farmers in Vellalore rejoiced the move. R Ganesh, a farmer who was not been able to tap water even after digging 30 borewells, said the region has seen a serious decline in not just farming but also the water level in the past 15 years. “Right now, even at 1,200 feet, ground water is not available. This land was the most productive in the district and all kinds of vegetables were once grown and exported from here,” he said. But encroachments near the Rajavaikal at Athupalam clogged all entry points for water and it had been more than 10 years since they received water from the Noyyal. 
 
 
