GOA: The Church in Goa has been in the news recently. Not unexpected for a religious institution that has in post-Liberation Goa elected to play a publicly social activist role, pitting it at times against the interests of the government and the political class. Members of the   have been active in protests, morchas, agitations and political meetings.

 The Church played a pivotal role in the 1975 ramponkar movement and the protest of the Meta Strips project, both led by Matanhy Saldanha. It threw itself vigorously into the language agitation, supported the public action for the Konkan Railway realignment and backed the drive to scrap special economic zones. The Goa Bachao Abhiyan’s agitation against the contentious Regional Plan 2011 caused tremors in the corridors of power, compelling Atanasio Monserrate’s resignation from the Rane ministry in early 2007. Without Church support, the GBA would have probably not had as much bite.
 
 Within the Church and outside of it, there’s often been debate on how far the Catholic clergy should go in matters plainly political. That discussion assumes relevance all the more on the eve of an election, as it did this Christmas after the archbishop’s civic reception at which all major political parties were significantly represented. Both defence minister Manohar Parrikar and the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party’s Sudin Dhavlikar—among the gamut of other notable politicians—made it a point to attend. The  , after all, is perceived as an entity able to influence a political outcome. It did so most evidently in the 2012 election that went the   way.
 
 “We do issue guidelines to our faithful on how to exercise their franchise and thus fulfil one of their sacred civic duties; these guidelines are read out in our churches, but they never mention the name of any candidate or political party,” archbishop Filipe Neri Ferrao said in his Christmas address.
 
 Election after election, journalists pore over the Church’s directives trying to unravel the clues to its electoral stand. Corruption, communalism, environment protection, social justice, equitable education —all of these in general find mention in the guidelines. But the more direct message is delivered by the church’s foot-soldiers, the scores of diocesan priests who individually endorse a candidate or party, even promoting them from the pulpit, as did the parish priest of Taleigao church at the midnight mass on Christmas Eve 2016.
 
 A video clip of the open-air mass was aired by a local TV channel last week. It showed the priest unabashedly rooting for Atanasio and Jennifer Monserrate. Calling upon the congregation to bring the political couple back to power with a “thumping majority”, the priest said they deserved the Christmas gift for their largesse and help to the Church. The election pitch made in the presence of AAP Taleigao candidate Cecile Rodrigues who was in a back row, comes days before the expected announcement of poll dates and the enforcement of the election code of conduct.
 
 A more glaring example of the misuse of the pulpit was the political endorsement Alina Saldanha received from the activist priest  , which thrust her into the Goa assembly after her husband’s death. With the Congress cringing in a political void at the time with the corruption taint and the AAP not yet in the picture in Goa, such an audacious attempt to use a religious platform to influence the political power stakes went largely uncriticized. The Church hierarchy’s silence in such instances—one doesn’t expect it will have anything to say in the Taleigao case either, despite the AAP’s public censure of it—sends out mixed signals. Either the Bishop’s Palace is powerless to deal with individual power centres or it unofficially endorses their views. Would the church argue it is not responsible for the views and activities of individual priests? The church sees itself as the moral compass of its faithful. But in articulating electoral guidelines—however general in nature—it presumes an inability for independent thinking among its followers in what the Supreme Court rightly described on Monday as a “secular activity”. 
 
 Over the last few months, the BJP in Goa has been pulling out all the stops to cultivate the Church. Cornering some part of the ‘Catholic’ vote has become crucial to the party’s return to power after its highly-publicized, near-split from the MGP and the alignment of a range of saffron forces—BBSM and Shiv Sena included—pitted against it. On December 25, an entourage of BJP and government officials led by Panaji MLA Sidharth Kuncalienkar descended on Our Lady of Ajuda Church in Ribandar to lay the foundation stone for the renovation of the church annexe by Goa State Infrastructure Development Corporation (GSIDC). The government is probably violating all the rules in using the GSIDC to carry out work for a non-state entity. The parish priest, too, hasn’t even thought through the legal implications of allowing a government foothold in church property, an official points out. 
 
 Ribandar is where the BJP cornered two crucial wards in the CCP election. Politicians, whatever their colour, will have no compunctions in using religion when it suits them. Should religious bodies become willing accomplices in such a cynical game?
 
  The writer is a senior journalist. The views expressed are personal
 
 
