Panaji: The Santosh Trophy is a funny tournament. Thirty three states take part, twenty-two men chase a ball for 90 minutes, sometimes more, in the final and at the end, Bengal always win. Well, most of the times.
 
  The badshahs of Indian football may have been on the decline for some time now as new forces – largely from the   -- emerge but Bengal proved when it comes to winning the National Football Championship, nobody knows it better.
  
  To add to their record 31 triumphs, Bengal had to wait a little longer than expected. Goa, playing at home, briefly threatened to end a string of disappointing runs; they’ve won just one of the eight finals between these two traditional rivals, but once the initial bravado died down, Bengal took matters in their own hands to break Goan hearts with a 1-0 victory in the second-last minute of extra time.
  
  Ninety minutes of regulation time had failed to break the deadlock at the   in Bambolim on Sunday. Then when the 30 minutes of extra time were nearing its end and everyone were bracing themselves for penalties, Bengal twisted the knife in Goa’s heart.
  
  That   scored the winner with just a minute remaining on the clock was ironical. The Bengal striker has missed the most number of chances; many of them gilt-edge. But when the brilliant Ronald Singh crossed the ball inside Goa’s goalmouth, Manvir trapped the ball cleanly, beat his marker on the turn and then finished with a left-footer that crashed into the top corner of the net. Goa goalkeeper   – voted best goalkeeper of the tournament – simply watched, and as the Bengal bench erupted in joy, home fans trooped out in despair.
  
  Nobody lauded Bengal openly but it was clear as daylight that Bengal were the better team and deserved to emerge champions. They finished as the only unbeaten team in the championship and didn’t concede a goal for an amazing 600 minutes. They had several chances and the manner in which Ronald and Basanta Singh found space inside the danger zone should have sent the alarm bells ringing in the Goan camp.
  
  Despite being backed by a partisan crowd, Goa failed to measure up to the challenge. They couldn’t prise open the Bengal defence – marshalled well by young Provat Lakra and captain   – and goalkeeper Sankar Roy was hardly tested. At the start, the home fans had cheered when Liston Colaco’s long ranger had missed the target by a whisker and went wild when Aaren D’Silva mistimed his shot from eight yards out. In the end that was about it.
  
  Few teams have played with such verve and ambition in this tournament like Bengal. Few teams have shown such solidity in defence. They may have not nailed the game in 90 minutes or earlier in extra time when Ronald’s header hit the upright and bounced back into play but Bengal were not to be denied their 32nd crown. Entirely deserving.
 
