JAIPUR: In a shocking revelation, many city hospitals, including reputed private ones, are reusing catheters—that cost between Rs 20,000 to Rs 25,000—multiple times.

 The malpractice came to light during an inspection conducted by the drug controller. In fact, the multiple use of   by city-based hospitals is so rampant that one of the four major hospitals inspected has even created separate   (SOP) for the same!
 
 And for these reused catheters, these hospitals were found charging the original price from patients. The hospital in question has been certified by the National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories. “We were surprised to find that the hospital has a separate SOP for catheters. It is a long thin tube that has a small balloon on its tip. On the packet of catheters, it is clearly mentioned that it can only be used a single time,” drug controller Ajay Phatak said on Wednesday.
 
 While many patients are not aware of it, hospitals have cynically continued to exploit the ignorance. Patients are also not informed by hospitals of using used catheters for procedures such as angioplasty and other surgeries.
 
 Phatak said that if a hospital has a separate SOP for using catheters multiple times, one can only imagine the number of times a   was being reused.
 
 Phatak said that they had found that all four hospitals that they inspected were reusing catheters several times.
 
 Hospitals are using it multiple times for increasing profits. Phatak said that they were charging the price of a new catheter from patients, even though they were using used ones for surgery. The hospitals include the cost of the catheter in the package of angiography.
 
 The health department has taken the issue seriously. Health minister Kalicharan Saraf on Wednesday said, “Action will be taken against all such hospitals found using catheters multiple times under existing laws. If we do not have laws, we will formulate new ones to punish such hospitals playing with the health of the patient.”
 
 The state has written to the Centre to intervene and control the price of catheters to prevent such malpractice. “We have written to the Centre and demanded to cap the price of catheters just as they did in the case of stents so that hospitals do not overcharge patients,” officials said.
 
 Now that the malpractice has been exposed, officials said that they would keep an eye on other hospitals too that indulge in such unethical practice.
 
 
