MUMBAI: The government is in the process of drafting a clause that makes it mandatory for hospitals empanelled under the   (CGHS) to publicly display the number of   and   they have carried out. The move comes after the Centre received a citizen's’ petition in February which drew attention to the alarming rise in the number of C-sections in India, mainly in  .
 
 CGHS has empanelled many private hospitals across the country, especially in metro cities like Mumbai and Delhi, to provide specialized healthcare to its employees. Over 60 private hospitals are empanelled in New Delhi alone. CGHS officials have made it clear that these private hospitals too will have to display the   statistics.
  
 “The empanelment clause is reworked every two to three years and we want to incorporate a guideline under which hospitals and diagnostic centres empanelled under CGHS will be asked to display the statistical percentage of C-sections conducted in their hospitals so that people at large are sensitized,” a senior CGHS official told TOI.
  
 The petition started by Subarna Ghosh, a Mumbai-based research scholar at SNDT University, clocked in over 1,63,000 signatures over the past three months through the internet advocacy platform change.org.
  
 It drew the attention of women and child development minister Maneka Gandhi, who raised the issue in a letter to the health ministry, asking them to make it a mandatory provision for hospitals under CGHS.
  
 Ghosh’s appeal came amid suspicions that Caesarean deliveries had become a business and some hospitals and doctors were nudging would-be parents towards needless surgical deliveries. In the petition, Ghosh had recounted her personal story of undergoing a C-section in Kolkata 18 years ago. Even though serious complications were not detected, she was cut open to deliver her baby. “It was presented to be more ’scientific, modern and risk-free’. I was misled, manipulated, confused and my choice was overridden,” she had claimed.
  
 An RTI filed in June 2016 revealed that C-section deliveries in Mumbai had doubled from 16.7% in 2010 to 32.1% in 2015. Also, C-section deliveries in private hospitals were 200% higher than those in government hospitals.
  
 Mumbai is not an exception though. The number of C-section deliveries has been rising across the world contrary to the WHO norm of keeping C-section rates between 10% and 15%. Reasons for this abound. Starting with time-saving for both the doctor and the patient, the “too posh to push” theory where women from better socio-economic strata have a low threshold for pain and that C-sections are an easier option to avert pregnancy-related complications.
  
 Ameet Dhurandhar, an obstetrician and gynaecologist specializing in water birth and natural drug-free childbirth, explains, “The reason for this surge is because doctors do not have the time for natural delivery nor do mothers have the patience in the final stages when they’re fed up of not being able to sit or lie comfortably. Even relatives often request for a quick and painless procedure. In some cases, there are monetary reasons too. While the public display of C-section numbers should make the process transparent and gynaecs think twice, the information can’t be generalized. Often there are high-risk cases and, therefore, it needs to be better categorized.”
  
 To curb the rampant practice of C-section deliveries, CGHS officials are already pushing the 1,000-odd hospitals and diagnostic centres currently empanelled with them to voluntarily put out this information before the new policies come into effect in a month. “We have advised hospitals and diagnostic centres to display the statistics at prominent places like the reception, notice board, maternity wards, OPD, gynaecology section, and labour rooms — basically any place within the premises that expecting parents may visit,” adds the CGHS official.
  
 “While it’s a wonderful move that the CGHS guidelines are being revised to increase transparency of hospitals regarding C-sections surgeries and address the crisis, 1,000 hospitals is still a nominal number. The policy needs equal participation from all stakeholders,” says Ghosh, stressing on the need to make more private hospitals and doctors liable too. “Since we haven’t had dialogues at the state-level where things can actually speed up and be impactful, the next step is to reach out to authorities in Maharashtra. We have enough figures to initiate a conversation. With Maharashtra as role model, we can move to other states.”
 
