KOLKATA: When former   was told that he had colon  , the world seemed to crumble around him. A chill went down his spine. But then, Banerjee, who loves to call himself a fighter, raced his mind back to the East Bengal-Mohun Bagan IFA Shield final in 1964. Leading the red-and-gold brigade against a formidable Bagan line-up, Banerjee’s side managed to finish the game with honours even. If he could defy his opponents on the football ground, why couldn’t he confront cancer, he asked himself.

 The 82-year-old hates to call himself a cancer survivor. “You don’t refer to a malaria patient as a survivor but it’s a killer ailment too. Why single out cancer?” he asked.
 
 Around a dozen like Banerjee, who have refused to be cowed down by the terminal ailment and have come up trumps, gathered at the   on the occasion of World Cancer Day on Saturday. They shared their stories, egged each other on and urged everyone not to treat them differently. 
 
 For many of them, life didn’t end with cancer, but, in fact, took a turn for the better. For instance, former export consultant Om Chaddha, who discovered marital bliss after being diagnosed with cancer in 1999. “After 30 cycles of chemotherapy, it was gone. It took a toll on my system, but my spirit didn’t flag. I started focusing on the positives and actually got married at 58,” said Chaddha.
 
 Early diagnosis and quick treatment were the key, said Shantanu Chattopadhyay, COO, CMRI. “A few simple routine check-ups could help to screen the disease. Early detection can make a huge difference. We would perhaps lose fewer women to cervical and breast cancer if screening is compulsorily done from the age of 50,” said Chattopadhyay. 
 
 For  , early detection indeed proved to be a life-saver. The schoolteacher was diagnosed with gastro-intestinal cancer three years ago. Her symptoms were deceptively benign. “I just felt weak and exhausted and perhaps wouldn’t have sought treatment had it not been for the doctors in my family. They forced me to get a few tests done and it saved me,” she recalled. 
 
 It could be easy to get over the initial shock if you choose to treat it as any other ailment, felt housewife Pramila Basu. “After diagnosis, I told myself that I should continue to be happy as long as I could. It changed my life and I have never been sad since. Doctors tell me that I am cured. Even if I had cancer, I wouldn’t be shattered. I would rather take it on,” she said.
 
 
