JAIPUR: Students who blew the lid off the paedophile teacher  's racket alleged that many of his victims were compelled to steal money from their family members and other relatives in order to pay regular extortion to Rameez. The accused, after his act with the children, would often videotape them and use the videos to blackmail them.

  (name changed) was among the group of students who first got a whiff of their teacher's activities in January this year and confronted school director   with a video evidence. “Some boys of our school informed us that they needed money to pay to somebody . We knew that Rameez was blackmailing them for money. In order to pay extortion, the students began stealing money from family members and sometimes even from other people,“ he added.
 
 Habib (name changed), uncle of a victim, alleged Rameez threatened his nephew to pay Rs 2,000 to Rs 3,000 on a weekly basis and sometimes monthly basis. “Rameez asked my nephew to beg, borrow or steal but pay him money whenever he asked for it,“ he alleged.
 
 “When the victims couldn't get the money from their homes, they stole it from relatives. My nephew was under immense mental pressure to get money, so much so that he completely lost interest in studies and requested for dropping out,“ he added.
 
 Iqbal and his friends on January 10 managed to take away the USB drive from the teacher's computer and with the help of a senior student broke into the password of the drive. “The horrifying clips completely shocked us. We went to meet   sir and showed him these clips, he asked us to wait for some time. A few minutes later, Rameez entered the room and left,“ he alleged, adding that it was the the last day they saw Rameez in the school.
 
 The students were expecting that the director would go to police, instead he hid the evidence in order to protect the school's prestige.
 
 Iqbal himself had attended a few of Rameez's classes but left soon after as he had found the teacher's behaviour suspicious.
 
 “I noticed that there were separate batches for the victims, he always locked the door from inside and that made many of us uncomfortable, but students as young as five and six years old were forced into these shameful acts by the teacher,“ he added.
 
 Rameez particularly preyed on minors who couldn't explain the nature of the crime committed against them. Meanwhile, the police on Sunday seized a computer from the school premises. Sarwar Alam has been sent on remand till Tuesday.
 
 The shocking news have gripped the entire   area and the family members of the accused have fled from their house.
 
