CHENNAI: The day when class XII board examination results are announced can be traumatic for students. For  , it was the day he became a paraplegic after suffering a T10 spinal cord injury in an accidental fall six years ago.

 Told by doctors that he may never walk again, Shailesh, now 23, hailing from   village in Gaya, Bihar, has gone on to become the fastest Indian half-marathoner on a wheelchair. Now, through the crowdfunding website www.fueladream.com, Shailesh has raised Rs 4.26 lakh - money that will be used to buy a racing wheelchair - so he can fulfill his dream of contesting at the Tokyo 2020 Paralympics.
 
 According to S Vaidyanathan, co-founder of The   (TGT), who helped set up the campaign, Shailesh's achievements on the conventional wheelchair beggar belief. Shailesh set a record during the Chennai half-marathon in January 2017, slashing the previous record by an hour when he crossed the finish line in 2 hours and 20 minutes. A month later, he bettered this record by five minutes at the New Delhi half-marathon.
 
 "It was only then we realised that this guy had potential. At the Paralympics, India has participants in the running and athletics categories but not in the wheelchair categories," said Vaidyanathan, who met Shailesh at the Mary Verghese institute of rehabilitation at the Christian Medical College, Vellore, in 2012.
 
 "The harsh reality is that even the basic wheelchair made in India is of poor quality. Athletes abroad use racing quality wheelchairs and these are expensive," he added.
 
 The crowdfunding campaign was started on January 31, 2017, and collected the required money in under 45 days. The campaigners will purchase the Invacare Top End Eliminator OSR racing wheelchair model.
 
 Speaking to TOI over phone from Chandigarh Spinal Rehab, Shailesh said that his achievement provides hope to others with spinal cord injuries and disabilities. However, he was critical of the lack of government support in this regard.
 
 "I struggled to get a disability certificate issued in my name. The government needs to do a lot more to help disabled athletes. With training support, we can achieve a lot more for the country," he said.
 
