LUCKNOW: Planning to set up a school in Uttar Pradesh? Be ready to follow the guidelines focusing on safety and security of children. The Uttar Pradesh government seems to have taken a cue from the brutalities on children committed in schools in Delhi-NCR and formed stringent rules for their safety.

 The rules apply to all schools affiliated to CBSE, CISCE, UP Secondary Education Board, UP Sanskrit Education Board, and  . The new norms on safe school premises released on Thursday state that the main doors of all classrooms should be visible from the playground and at least one window must open towards the playground.
 
 Other rules state that entry of senior students, unauthorised people and ad hoc employees should be prohibited in the primary and junior sections without permission. Also, no senior students or other people should be allowed to use utilities, like toilets and drinking water, meant for such children.CCTV cameras should be installed at all vulnerable points inside the premises. The directives issued by the secondary education department on curtailing crime against children inside school, while travelling between school and home and during field visits highlight that there should be a boundary wall and the main gate should be shut immediately once classes get over.
 
 All doors and windows of the classroom should remain open during classes. If extra classes or sports related activities are held, then the teacher concerned should ensure that the main entrance is locked once everyone leaves. The principal should ensure that no student remains in class after school gets over. Children walking or cycling to school should be encouraged to come in groups. School transportation should have a functioning GPS. Child and women helpline numbers and police station's number should be printed on the vehicle.
 
 If the transportation is outsourced, police verification of bus drivers, conductors and helpers should be done by the agency . The vehicle should mention the contact details of the school and transport agency .
 
 Parents should inform the school the mode of transportation used by their children. If the child doesn't use transport provided by the school, parents will be held responsible for any untoward incident.
 
