PUNE: Soon, the city will be segmented into four   in an effort to manage   better. The   (PMC) has focused on the issue in its parking policy, which is expected to be tabled before the general body within a month.

 Traffic signals, parking spaces, public transport service, parking fee as well as other facilities related to managing the movement of   across the city will be designed on the basis of the needs of each district.
 
 As per the policy, heavy parking charges will be introduced on 40 major thoroughfares. The policy aims to reduce use of personal vehicles while promoting public transport. “It is time to make tough decisions. An increased parking fee is expected to act as a deterrent for the unchecked use of private vehicles in the city. It will also help reduce congestion and chaos,” said municipal commissioner Kunal Kumar.
 
 As per the administration’s estimate, about 50% of the city’s traffic is comprised of private vehicles. Free parking on roads encouraged use of private vehicles. Illegal parking along roadsides and on footpaths also leads to chaos. Pedestrians are unable to use footpaths due to encroachments by vehicle users.
 
 The policy will propose different slabs of parking fees depending on the location of roads. Further, it will be directly proportional to the demand for parking. Zones such as residential, business or mobility corridor will be developed. One district can have one or more zones.
 
 Data collated by the RTO has found that the city is adding at least 2 lakh vehicles each year. Several households not only own a two-wheeler but also a car while some own several two-wheelers as well as cars for individual use.
 
 “The number of vehicles in the city is high as compared with the parking space available. The roads are not equipped to provide parking for every vehicle. Therefore, there is a need to encourage a shift from personal mode of travel, to public transport, walking or cycling. Introduction of the parking district will prove helpful, if implemented in a proper manner,” said Prashant Inamdar of Pedestrian First organisation.
 
