Rajkot: In a major operation, Rajkot city police seized over 15,000 fake Rs 2,000 currency notes with face value of over Rs 3 crore from a car in Sukhsagar society of Rajkot on Friday. The counterfeit currency notes, suspected to have been printed in Ahmedabad, was seized during investigation of a cheating case. Earlier, the cops had recovered fake currency with face value of Rs 57 lakh from those accused in the cheating case last month.

 Police got information about the fake notes during questioning of an accused in cheating case
 
 Nitin Ajani (45), a resident of Shree Ram Park on Kothariya Road, in Rajkot, had lodged a complaint of cheating on February 24 against Ketan Dave (30) and his close aide   (40). According to Ajani's complaint, Dave, who ran an accounting firm, had transferred Rs 50 lakh through   from his bank account to the account of   a few weeks ago. However, when the accused did not return the amount, Ajani filed a complaint following which cops arrested Dave and Patel.
 
 During questioning, Dave told police that he had the cash lying at his office in his office in Nakshtra Building on Gondal Road. When police searched his office it recovered a packet containing Rs 2,000 currency notes. However, on first look, the cops suspected genuineness of the currency notes and sent it to forensic lab for analysis,” said police.
 
 The FSL report confirmed that out of 2,864 notes 2,858 were counterfeit while only six were genuine. The accused had scanned the original note and printed it on high quality paper. Police then added another section 489 of Indian Penal Code against Dave and Patel.
 
 “After investigation, we also arrested Ketan Dave’s driver Umang Suthar and court grated his two days remand on Wednesday. He revealed that Dave owned a car. When we searched the car a bag full of counterfeit currency was recoverd. According to primary estimate, the fake notes have face value of Rs 3 crore. The FSL officials were called in after the seizure,” said L M  , in-charge police inspector, A division police station, Rajkot.
 
 
