THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The city corporation has introduced a   to contractors as per the direction of   to check the number of works getting lapsed owing to silly reasons and to check collusion between contractors, who quote lower rates, and a section of officials.

 The new rule would make it mandatory for the contractors as well as the   to submit an affidavit regarding works executed below the actual rate. The civic body has decided to implement the new system with records   which were executed at low rates.
 
 Till now, a 25% ceiling was fixed for quoting works below the actual rate. At present, this ceiling has been taken off and the government introduced an added condition by which the contractor who quotes low rates will have to explain how the work will be conducted. Besides, the engineering wing will have to certify as to why the work has to be awarded at a low rate. 
 
 According to engineering wing officials, around 10% works have been given at rates which touched 30% lower than the actual rate while a major share of the works were quoted at 25% of the actual rate. The contractors are divided over the efficiency of new system. “Giving works at low rates often results in bad quality. Deterioration of roads is a major after effect of works being awarded at low rates. If a ceiling was fixed, contractors would stick to it and a minimum guarantee could have been ensured,” said a contractor.
 
 The officials, however, clarify that by taking off the ceiling, it doesn’t mean that contractors can quote as low as they wish. “The system is being implemented since many works were being dropped due to the fact that contractors quoted at one or two percent lower than the ceiling. This resulted in lapse of funds. In the new system, the assistant engineer will certify how the work is carried out and thus quality can be ensured,” an official with the engineering wing said.
 
 The civic body has now called tenders for 240 works, which will also be implemented under the new system. 
 
 Dissent has also arisen over the mode of conducting works. As per the latest specifications, contractors need to employ mechanical ways in executing road works, which is being opposed by contractor due to various factors. “Paver is one machine which is widely used in road works. however, in corporation roads with hardly 3.5m width, use of paver is not practical. Besides, use of machinery is advised in even roads, but corporation roads are so uneven that machinery cannot be deployed,” a contractor pointed out. It is learnt that manual tarring will be continued in the city with contractors objecting to use of machines.
 
