Mumbai: The outgoing chairman of regulator Sebi,  , said on Monday that investor protection will take precedence over development of the market, if it ever came to a point where the organisation had to choose between the two. Sinha also said that during his six-year term, there were instances when   acted harshly against those entities that threatened the integrity of markets, and he wasn’t feeling shy to admit that. 

 Sinha, a former IAS officer of Bihar cadre, is set to retire on March 1 and Ajay Tyagi, also an IAS officer, who is currently an additional secretary in the finance ministry, will take over as the next regulatory chief.
 
 Sinha said Sebi’s main job was to protect the interests of investors and it will continue to do so. “This has been a major effort on our part and while we have to be fair, everyone should get uniform treatment,” he said. “We also believe there should be competition in the market. So we have consciously encouraged that. We believe that if there is fair amount of competition in the market and the regulations are in place, then we will be able to avert many mishaps,” Sinha said.
 
 Speaking about some of the tough orders passed by Sebi during the last six years, he said he was aware of comments that Sebi was very harsh. “Well we have been (harsh). I don’t think we will feel shy about saying that. Whenever we have found there are aberrations, violations — we have taken action. I am sure this has given comfort not only to domestic investors but also to foreign portfolio investors (FPIs),” Sinha said. 
 
 The Sebi chief said that during his tenure, the   had made all efforts to ensure uniform treatment to every market participant, big or small, and aimed at promoting competition. He also said that Sebi is working hard to cleanse the markets and instruments of manipulation that were threats, including defunct regional stock exchanges, which have been closed down. “We have also been able to delist 345 companies and more than 2,000 companies have been brought to the dissemination board. If we saw there is some entity that could be a potential threat to the integrity of the market, we acted very hard on it,” he said.
 
 Sinha said he was very proud that about 200 SMEs have already been listed on the dedicated platform for these companies, which are smaller in size than the ones that trade on the main platform. 
 
 In early 2012, BSE had launched its dedicated trading platform for SMEs and has a dominant position.
 
 Sinha also said that regional stock exchanges where barely trading for several years, and were potential instruments for market manipulation and were creating difficulties in the financial system. During his tenure, 19 of those were closed down, despite legal hurdles. “Obviously we met with resistance and legal challenges, but Sebi was able to win all these cases and these exchanges were closed,” Sinha said.
 
 The outgoing Sebi chief also said that he wanted to see listing of at least one real estate investment trust (REIT) or infrastructure investment trust (InvIT) during his tenure. “One of my significant regrets is that I could not see a   or   being launched during my time. I was hoping and hoping that I will be able to see it...,” Sinha told the media in the city. He expects this to happen within the next couple of months. Sinha said that the reason for not listing of REIT or InvIT had more to do with approvals from other regulators and was beyond Sebi’s jurisdiction. In 2014, the market regulator had notified the regulations for the launch in India of REIT and InvIT, which are popular investment products in developed markets.
 
 
