

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 With the fourth phase of polling getting over, I can say Samajwadi Party would garner a majority. If, till now, I was telling people to vote to make us win, I am now asking them to vote to get us the majority. SP and Congress will form the government in Uttar Pradesh.
 
 
 
 
 Your voice often fails you when you are speaking at too many rallies. But, when you have to get your message across, you have to do this. I have tried to attend as many rallies as possible so that I can talk about the work done by my government and party and also what we want to do in the future. Chunao mein aisa hota hai . gala kharab .. rang badal jaata hai…
 
 
 
 
 The Prime Minister has been speaking his ‘mann ki baat.’ People have heard on TV and radio. I want him to come to UP and talk about what he has done for the state. I want him to ask me what I have done for my state. I am ready to answer. But, when he asks me what I have done, he needs to answer the people in UP what he has done for them. But, since he does not wish to talk about this, the party is making references to Kasab and kabristan. 
 
 Samajwadi Party is talking about laptops it has distributed. We now want to distribute smartphones. BJP should tell us if they have distributed laptops in UP. I gave 18 lakh students the best quality laptops. But BJP national president has been alleging that we discriminated on caste lines. The world today has changed and everything is transparent. People understand everything. All that BJP needs to do is go through the list of students who have got laptops. If a Yadav has topped the exams, he must have got a laptop but it’s not necessary that every topper is a Yadav. BJP should find out who got these laptops and how their dreams got wings.
 
 PM said we are providing more power during Ramzan than during Diwali. We have never discriminated. We provided same power during Ramzan, Diwali and Christmas. They are saying as they do not have anything to show as their achievement.
 
 
 
 
 I spoke specifically about an advertisement. I did not talk about any person. I had requested the ‘mahanayak’, who featured in that advertisement that such advertisements should not be made. But, if this has hurt the PM, I would like to say that he should talk about his work and not get upset or emotional or angry. And, if this happens, it means they have lost the battle while there are 11 more days to go for result day. I did not say this to either hurt anyone’s sentiments. Is vishay pe bahut emotional hone ki zaroorat nahi hai (One need not get too emotional on this issue).
 
 
 
 
 Maine kaha ki samay aur paristhiti ne tay kiya ki kya faisla lena hai (I did say that time and circumstances led to my decision). I decided on it keeping in mind the well-being and future of UP. We are into a big election and I wanted to be sure of what I was doing and people get the message that it was for the good of UP. I realized that people had faith in this and they believed the alliance would form a stable government and take UP forward.
 
 
 
 
 It’s natural that the party would ask questions. But, the alliance has Netaji’s blessings and he even said later that it was for the good.
 
 
 
 
 Why do you need to talk about this? Results would be out on March 11. Uske baad hum aur aap baithkar paristhitiyan taye kar lenge. Yeh samay nahi hai purani baton pe bahes karne ka (We will discuss this after the results are out. This isn’t the time to talk about what has already happened). It’s time to look ahead and work on the next three phases.
 
 Dilliwale logon ko UP wali kursi achhi lag rahi hai. Humne toh kaha ki pradhan mantri ko itna achha lag raha hai UP toh kaho adla badlee kar le hum … seat ki adla badlee ho jaye (Those in Delhi are finding the hot seat in UP very lucrative. If the prime minister is so much in love with UP, let’s swap seats)
 
 
 
 
 Why wait for 2019? Abhi adla badlee kar lo … Prime Minister talks about state of police stations in UP but he is not aware of the Dial 100 service we have introduced. No government could have done better. He is talking about kabristan and shamshan. He is talking about everything but development. Isliye maine kaha ki agar aapka dil nahi lag raha hai wahan par toh adla badlee kar lo. Uske liye toh unhe hi faisla lena padega (If his heart is not in Delhi, he can swap seats. But, he has to decide on this)
 
 
 
 
 Once this election is over, we will decide what we can do in the future and in what way we can take this forward.
 
 
 
 
 I have never dreamt of being in Delhi. I am happy here in UP and wish to stay here. Aur main yeh baat manta hoon ki jo dilli jaata hai woh bahut der tak dilli ki gaddi pe nahi baithta hai.
 
 
 
 
 This is something that Priyanka Gandhiji and Congress would decide. They will decide when and how she would campaign. I cannot decide on their behalf. Who unki marzi hai (It’s their wish). They know their party better and they will decide.
 
 
 
 
 I spoke about this just once. I said that some are trying to usurp the cycle and defeat it. It was during a particular phase and that is over now. We need to focus on the last leg of the election now.
 
 
 
 
 I have not been able to meet him lately. But, I have said that I will meet him ahead of March 11 and after March 11.
 
 
 
 
 March 11 is result day. I am certain we will win. I will seek his blessings when we win and even if we don’t.
 
 
 
 
 People might say I was speaking from my personal experience. What’s happening around you does influence your thoughts and decisions. But, organisations like Bajrang Dal and Hindu Vahini are a menace. It’s a personal decision whether one would celebrate Valentine’s Day or not. UP government has established a women powerline with a dedicated number and it has been helping women in distress. I would request BJP leaders to spend some time in the powerline control room to realize how it works and how we help keep women safe.
 
 
 
 
 If I ever have to a take this step, I will begin from my own home. I will request Dimple not to contest elections. But, if the people of Kannauj, which she represents in Lok Sabha, want her to stay and work for them, I would have little to do. But I can say that in the future, if a beginning has to be made, I will begin from my home.
 
 
 
 
 Agar aap meetha khana nahi chhoroge toh doosron ko kaise kahoge ki meetha mat khao.
 
