Nagpur: The   collection has forced municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar to revise standing committee’s budgetary estimates by almost 30% in the proposals for 2017-18. Hardikar will present the revised budget for 2016-17 at a special and probably the first meeting of the standing committee next week. In the same meeting, he will also present the proposed budget for the 2017-2018 fiscal. It is expected to be between Rs 1,600 crore and Rs 1,700 crore.

 Poor revenue collection has been the bane for Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) that has been running into losses for over a decade. The appalling story is no different in this fiscal as well with the civic body recovering only 50% of the Rs 2,048 crore targeted revenue. In 11 months, the NMC has recovered only Rs 1,042.09 crore — a deficit of about Rs 1,000 crore. Sources said with just 23 days left for the current fiscal to end it will not cross even the civic chief’s proposed target of Rs 1,487cr revenue.
 
 Based on this budget, newly-elected standing committee chairman Sandip Jadhav is set to present NMC budget in May this year. 
 
 The budgets were to be presented on or before February 5 but got delayed due to municipal polls followed by the elections for mayor and deputy mayor. As per NMC Act, Hardikar will present budgets to Jadhav.
 
 The revised budget will be based on NMC’s actual revenue up to January 31, 2017. The revenue collection was hit to a great extent in the current fiscal that will reflect in the revised budget. 
 
 In the current fiscal, Hardikar had presented Rs 1,487 crore budget while former standing committee chairman prepared Rs 2,047 crore budgetary estimates for 2016-17. 
 
 Serious questions have been raised over the entire budget planning exercise and the overall administrative efficiency in revenue collection following the civic administration’s failure to earn the targeted revenue.
 
 The revised budget for current year and fresh budget for next fiscal is always based on the civic body’s revenue and expenditure in the first 11 months — between April 1 and February 28. 
 
 Burdened by major financial hurdles, the NMC faces an uphill task to take up ambitious Smart City projects.
 
 Leave apart infrastructure, NMC is struggling to pay salaries to its staff, sustain basic services with the existing tax mechanism implemented three decades back
 
 “The collection is insufficient to bear the financial liability of basic services like water supply, sanitation and solid waste disposal. Taking up Smart City projects with this income is impossible,” admitted a NMC senior official.
 
 
