THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: It’s up to the minister to answer, especially after what she saw at the   here, a few hundred metres down the road opposite the  

 Minister for health   visited the hospital on Thursday for the first time after an increase in dengue cases was reported in the district.
 
 Empty beer bottles, medicines dumped in cupboards and inpatients sharing space with drums containing waste greeted her in the morning. 
 
 The surprise spot visit was after receiving complaints against the hospital and also based on a TOI report that said around 50 employees, including 10 doctors, were down with vector-borne dengue.
 
 A long queue had formed outside the outpatient (OP) department by the time the minister reached the hospital at 8.20am. Several doctors, including the medical superintendent, were yet to arrive even 20 minutes past the beginning of the OP, the minister learnt.
 
 A fuming Shylaja turned her anger at those—including doctors—then present at the hospital. She asked for a list of doctors who were late to work, before marching towards the wards and nursing areas.
 
 A heap of carton boxes containing beer bottles and medicines welcomed her. Shylaja shot a question, perhaps, several patients—and those accompanying them—have been repeatedly asking.
 
 “Is this a hospital? How can you so irresponsible,” she asked the officials and doctors present. She ordered to clean the hospital wards and nursing area within 24 hours. “I want to see all these cleared immediately. Or else, whoever is in charge will not have a job here tomorrow,’’ Shylaja said.
 
 The scene at the hospital left the minister speechless. “I don’t have words to express my shock and I am not making any comments on any action. I will be here regularly to monitor the functioning of the hospital,’’ she said.
 
 Corp blames citizens: Shylaja’s visit came a day after the surprise check of the hospital by additional chief secretary (health) Rajeev Sadanandan. The senior official had on Wednesday blamed the city corporation for the increase in dengue cases.
 
 Mayor V K Prasanth said the corporation needed the support of the health department for eradicating dengue.
 
 “There is no point in blaming corporation alone for the increase in dengue cases. The source of the disease is the unhygienic conditions in households for which the corporation cannot do anything,” the mayor, who is also the minister’s party colleague, said. tnn
 
 
