KOCHI: Giving a   to   projects that were on the backburner for quite some time, the   (NHAI) started a   a few days ago. The study, which includes the overall development of   of the highway and the construction of flyovers, will be completed within a period of four to five months.

 After starting the construction of flyovers at Edappally and Palarivattom, the state government decided to construct these flyovers. If NHAI constructed the flyovers, then motorists would have to pay a toll and to avoid this scenario and minimize land acquisition, the state government decided to construct them on its own. The previous-UDF government had given the administrative sanction for the project. 
 
 Later, the state finance department raised objection citing fund crunch. When the LDF govern ment assumed office, PWD wrote to NHAI to take up the job. But, NHAI turned down the request and last month, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan held discussions with the Centre. Following the chief minister's request, NHAI started the feasibility study. “We have already started the feasibility study. It will be completed in four or five months,“ said NHAI project director Chadrasekhar Reddy .
 
  Officials with the PWD's NH wing sad NHAI would be in charge of the overall development of the EdappallyThuravoor stretch. “NHAI would be preparing a detailed report on developing the stretch. As the stretch has become a four-lane way , NHAI would be focusing on providing additional facilities.The project would include measures to ensure smooth flow of vehicles as well as accident control and safety measures,“ a top official of the NH wing.
 
 “The project would be designed after considering the traffic volume. We expect that the flyover works can be started next fiscal,“ he said.
 
 NHAI will have to construct the flyover at Vyttila in synchronization with the Metro rail which passes through the junction. Traffic snarls at Vyttila and Kunda noor junctions have become headache for motorists and pedestrians. Accidents at Vyttila Junction have claimed lives in the past few months.
 
 Earlier, PWD had prepared detailed project report (DPR) for constructing flyovers at Vyttila and Kundanoor. The plan was to construct Rs 113-crore flyover at Vyttila and Rs 89-crore one at Kundanoor. The state government had granted all mandatory clearances. It is learnt that the PWD had spent nearly Rs 3 crore on preparing a detailed project report (DPR) and design. On NHAI's part, it had given nod for the state PWD to construct flyovers at Vyttila and Kundanoor. But the state government decided to scrap the project after the finance department raised ist objection.
 
 Once the Vyttila and Kundanoor flyovers are constructed, the traffic along Edappally-Thuravoor four-lane stretch will be smoother. The state government had constructed flyovers at Edappally and Palarivattom by spending Rs 140 crore and Rs 79 crore respectively .
 
