MUMBAI: The cost of maintaining the seven Humboldt penguins at the   (VJB) Udyan and zoo in Byculla only seems to be increasing by the day.

 The   will have to shell out over Rs 1 crore every year only as the electricity bill of the interpretation centre where the seven flightless birds are currently housed. Zoo officials said they have been receiving an electricity bill of up to Rs 10 lakh every month for the interpretation centre since it was inaugurated on March 17 this year.
 
 “This however is for the entire facility, including the lobby area. Even if the new entry fees are approved, we will have to subsidize visitors' charges considering the cost we are bearing,“ said a senior civic official, adding entry fees for visitors to Byculla zoo were much lower compared to other zoos across the country .
 
 On July 26, 2016, eight Humboldt penguins which included three males and five females, were brought to the Byculla zoo from Coex Aquarium, Seoul in South Korea. However, on October 23, an 18month-old female penguin died due to a bacterial infection leading to septicaemia (blood poisoning). Now, seven Humboldt penguins are housed within the interpretation centre and visitors are allowed to view them at a cost of Rs 5.
 
 BJP party leader in the BMC, Manoj Kotak, said the electricity cost was only adding to the burden of taxpaying citizens. “The penguins were brought and are being maintained using taxpayers' money . Now the electricity charges will also be paid by taxpaying citizens. Keeping all these factors in mind our opposition to the entry fee hike will continue to remain. The BMC has enough funds in its fixed deposits and does not need to burden the taxpayers in such a way ,“ said Kotak.
 
 Meanwhile the number of visitors at   and zoo have drastically increased from the annual average of four lakh.Zoo authorities are anticipating that the number of visitors in the first three months after the facility was inaugurated since March 17 this year may touch 1 million (June 17, 2017). “On weekdays, approximately 15,000 persons visit the zoo while on weekends the number touches almost 22,000.Therefore we are anticipating that the visitor count may touch one million in the first three months,“ said a zoo official.
 
