NEW DELHI: In the wake of restrictions on some US-based voluntary organisations for violation of rules, the US has, as part of its recommendations at the review of India’s rights record at the  , suggested that India should ensure “consistent and transparent” application of the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act.

 India received 250 recommendations from different countries after the universal period review of its human rights record at the   Human Rights Council ( ) in Geneva, Switzerland, on May 4.
 
 Attorney general   defended India’s policies and programmes at the meeting and, as is required, promised to “review and report back to the UNHRC in September”, the UN said in a statement issued on Tuesday. Some of the recommendations include ratification of the UN convention against torture and elimination of the death penalty; decriminalising consensual same-sex relationships; developing a national strategy to tackle exploitative labour practices, and ratifying the 2014 International   protocol to the Forced Labour Convention. Many countries asked India to criminalise marital rape and strengthen protections for children. Others asked India to develop a national plan for human rights, and include human rights education in the draft of its new education policy.
 
 India has also been asked to ensure the effective implementation of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, especially in the training of state officials.
 
 Several others asked for a national action plan to combat hate crimes, racism and negative stereotypes against people of African descent inside its territory, including appropriate public awareness programmes.
 
 India has once again been asked to revise the Armed Forces Special Powers Act, and bring it into compliance with obligations under the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights.
 
 Pakistan asked India to “take visible policy and other measures to ensure the freedom of religion and belief, and address the alarming trend of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance, including mob violence committed, incited and advocated by right-wing parties and affiliated extremist organisations against minorities, particularly Muslims, Christians, Sikhs and Dalits”.
 
 Others asked India to revise the   to “ensure benign working conditions for the civil society in India”.
 
 Many had more realistic suggestions, like “ensuring the implementation of a set of socio-economic policies, such as the Stand-Up India Scheme, is targeted, accountable, and transparent”.
 
 India has also been asked to end “camp-based sterilisation operations in accordance with the SC order of September 14, 2016, by ensuring all women access to counselling and the full range of modern contraceptives in a voluntary, safe, and quality manner”.
 
