PANAJI: Aspirants of   may find themselves at a massive disadvantage with a national entrance exam for all   across the country that has been announced from 2018.

 Officials admit that the only reason many Goa students may qualify for the engineering seats in the state via the national test is because the performance of engineering seat aspirants in many other states is worse off.
 
 “Among the many shortcomings for Goa students will be that the national entrance test will be based on the syllabus of both Class XI and XII. The Goa Common Entrance Test ( ) that students have been answering to get an engineering seat in Goa at present is the only competitive exam in the country where aspirants have to only study the Class XII syllabus,” a state official points out.
 
 Also, the overall performance of students at GCET has been on a decline, proving the test less competitive in recent years.
 
 The top score in mathematics came crashing down to 65 out of 75 in 2016, as against the previous year's full score of 75 achieved by the 2015 subject topper.
 
 The average marks being scored at GCET in all four subjects have steadily dropped over the years. From an average score of 26.7 out of 75 in physics in 2013, the figure has come down to 21.64 in 2016, for instance.
 
 The reason: Between 2013 and 2015 Goa’s engineering seat count increased by 400 to 1,230, as five institutes now offered courses in the field. This made it quite easy to squeeze in all engineering aspirants in Goa in a seat in some or the other stream.
 
 This left the state so much in want of students to fill up the engineering seats that since 2013 it has relaxed its criterion which allowed only those who had cleared Class XII at first attempt to apply.
 
 Now, a Class XII student, who has failed an essential subject—math, physics or chemistry—can clear it through the Class XII   and apply for a professional degree seat in Goa.
 
 Also, GCET is an objective type question paper with no negative marking.
 
 All these factors will mean that the average engineering seat aspirant from Goa will find themselves at a massive disadvantage in scoring good marks at the national engineering entrance exams now.
 
 “There are several states where engineering aspirants are worse off in their performance and Goa students will end up getting a chance at the Goa seats. But their performance might be not very good. They will have to prepare from now itself to answer both the Class XI and XII syllabus, even though the national test is yet to be finalized,” said an official.
 
 
