KOCHI: She is crouched on the floor of the verandah of a remote   where we meet, the simple but elegant yellow Phanek demurely tucked under her knees. Were it not for the guests, she would, you suspect, curl up foetus-like. No wonder, because   has travelled a good 4,000 kms from one end of the sub continent to another determined to be left alone.

 For 16 years, she stared the mighty Indian State in its intimidating face, refusing to blink, but what finally did her in was proverbial  , especially of those whom you trust unconditionally.
 
 The fickleness is not just of the   who once deified her ­ they called her Iron Lady and Mengoubi, “the fair one“ ­ but chose to give her just 90 votes in the recently-concluded assembly polls. The fickleness that is tearing her apart, you sense, is of a more private nature ­ of a middle-aged woman who belatedly realises she wants the more enduring things in life, a man's love for instance, and just when she has given her heart over to him to see him fail to return the fervour.
 
 Finally, Sharmila breaks her silence. “I want to do some soul searching, introspect, rearrange my thoughts and decide on my life ahead. I just want to be alone now.
 
 I want peace and solitude,“ she says.
 
 The surrounding Attapadi hills are barren, a complete contrast to the lush heights of the  , but also perhaps a foil, since all that is green is not necessarily golden. Always known to be a reluctant speaker, Sharmila is now even more so. Uncomfort able questions about life, love and Manipur are met face, her with silence. She lowers her hands hugging her knees. Few seconds later, she slowly lifts her head and stares into your eyes, almost piercing your heart and soul. A smile is returned with a blank stare. The day she has arrived in Kerala, to spend a month here to seek peace and tranquillity, happens to be her birthday. She has turned 45. She seems pensive.
 
 “I wish Desmond were here,“ she says suddenly. “I have not met him since Christmas day in 2014. And now, he has not even wished me on my birthday.“ Her fiance Desmond Coutinho is a non-resident Indian of Goan background, whom she first met in 2013. Desmond, she believes, is currently in Ireland, a man “whom I have seen as a life partner“ but whose arrival on the scene saw her own close friends and family accuse her of betraying her mission, her struggle.
 
 The conflict within her, as she tries to balance her personal and public life, comes to the fore when she talks about Desmond. One moment, she wants to talk to him, wants him to be invited to Kerala ­“I do hope you invite him here“ ­ and the next moment, the woman whose life is like an open book, refuses to be judged by people. “Why do you want to know about my personal life? I don't want my relationship to be a public issue with people sitting in judgement,“ she retorts.
 
 This is the agony of a woman who is slowly moving away from being an iconic revolutionary, revered for spending 16 years of her youth in a hospital ward that became her prison to becoming a prisoner of loneliness, for she has dared to be human again. She admits that she yearns to live the life of an ordinary woman and her dreams are “similar to other people's lives“.
 
 Years of struggle, being released and re-arrested every year since her hunger strike, the longest in the world, didn't tire her. She had the will to be reborn again when authorities force-fed nutrients to her through a nasal tube. But the woman now in Santhi Gramam ashram is tired and she doesn't hide it. “I don't know when will I die... They didn't leave me alone. They just don't know how to help me. My entry into politics has been cut off in the beginning itself,“ she bursts out, clearly emotional and struggling hard to hold back her tears. Then there is silence. Dead, deafening silence.
 
 Then, as if as an afterthought, she makes her resolve clear. She will continue her fight against the draconian AFSPA. But this time her strategy would be different.She won't sit on a hunger strike or contest elections.“I will return home, to play my role in the world. I will continue my fight against the draconian law.It needs lots of lobbying, lobbying with the whole world,“ she says.
 
 Then again the silence. But her words continue to haunt you, especially what she had said soon after her release -“I don't like to be called the Goddess of Manipur. I am just a human being“. That is the real story of Irom Sharmila, a story for the ages.
 
