Nagpur: Eighty-one women corporators in the 151-strong civic house, but there was only one who spoke. She was third-time corporator Abha Pande who contested as an independent this time after quitting the   party. The rest, among whom many were first-timers, were silent spectators at the first general body meeting of the   ( ) on Monday.

 The proceedings started around 11.20am and it took almost an hour for the Town Hall to be a full house, with a handful of senior corporators walking in as late as 12.15pm.
 
 Most of the women turned out in saris with pinned-up ‘pallus’. Their lack of experience in public life was apparent — some were escorted by their husbands and other male relatives, some came with senior leaders of their panel while some others came in groups. Addressing each other as ‘tai’, the women brigade warmed up outside the hall with friendly banter.
 
 It was evident that many were inside the hall for the first time. Before the proceedings, some were struggling to find seats, unable to determine their row and seat numbers as per the new sitting system. 
 
 A nervous and excited lot, some political debutants had brought their family members inside for moral support. Sunny Uike, brother-in-law of corporator Rashmi Uikey, made sure that she was settled comfortably before leaving the hall. “I came here to boost her confidence,” he said.
 
 With women occupying over 50% seats of the house, it still turned out to be a bastion of males as apart from introducing themselves, they were generally quiet. The only frenetic activity they did in the two-and-a-half-hour-long meeting was moving out in pairs, ostensibly, to go to the washroom.
 
 As the “new corporators should know administrative officials”, senior Congress leader Praful Gudadhe requested administrative officials to introduce themselves. Starting from municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar, NMC officials came forward one at a time.
 
 As the proceedings began, some women corporators did not mind breaching the decorum of the house. Sitting on the backbenches, few were repeatedly talking on mobile phones. One seated in the second-last row had dozed off when the initial agendas were being discussed. 
 
 Among men too, there were some first-timers but they attempted to make their presence felt.   corporator Bunty Shelke raised water-shortage problems of his ward. He was seen getting involved in regular discussions with senior party leaders Harish Gwalbanshi and Purushottam Hazare, who kept prompting him to rise and speak. 
 
 Deciding water rates on the basis of occupancy certificate became the hot topic of discussion, so much so that leaders of ruling and opposition parties fought from the same side. When senior   leader Dayashankar Tiwari raised a query regarding how many municipal corporations of the state follow this method, Gwalbanshi said, “Nobody will have an answer to this question.”
 
 When the administration failed in providing the information, Tiwari’s remark set off laughter from all corners of the house. “It was an experimental research done only in NMC. But we forgot that research needs a patent,” he said.
 
 The first GB offered first-timers a lot to learn. “It was more like ‘watch and learn’ for us,” said Vandana Bhagat. With the NMC organizing a training session for new corporators on April 1, the corporators will get an opportunity to understand the house more. “Next time, we will come prepared with our issues,” said Sayeda Begum.
 
 
