GHAZIABAD: A large   in  , popularly known as  , was cleared of vendors by the police on Wednesday evening. However, most of the vendors returned in less than two hours to set up their stalls.

 The daily market, located on road No. 10 in Ahimsa Khand 2, is located between Shipra Shristi and Shipra Vista housing societies. The market provides groceries, fruits, vegetables and daily household items to dozens of housing societies in the vicinity. 
 
 Residents of these housing societies, where vendors and hawkers are not permitted inside the premises, flock at Bihari Market for their daily needs.
 
 At 6pm on Wednesday, the vendors were evicted by cops who had arrived at the market on PCR No. 50. The vendors shifted their wares to the main roads on either sides of the market till the PCR left the spot, resulting in minor traffic snarls.
 
 A cop told this correspondent that the action to evict the squatters was taken after receiving directions via wireless from the Indirapuram police station.
 
 However, the vendors had a different take on the matter. “Cops usually ask us for money on a weekly basis. When we refuse to pay up, they chuck our wares and do not permit us to sell here. We also suffer losses when our wares are thrown away during their drives,” Mohammed Ashraf Ali, a vendor, told TOI.
 
 The vendors alleged that cops had destroyed most of the perishable goods that they had brought to sell. 
 
 “The cops are asking us to pay Rs 3 lakh. If we do not pay the amount, they will continue to harass us daily. They threw away several kilos of fish that I brought to sell today,” Mushtaq Ahmed, another vendor, said.
 
 The vendors, under the banner of Indirapuram Rehdi Patri Khoka Association, filed a petition in 2015 with the Allahabad high court alleging police excesses and demanding a permanent spot. Following this the GDA was ordered to not evict the vendors until they were granted a permanent spot. However, after repeated evictions, the vendors filed a contempt of court petition in November 2016.
 
 “The vendors do not have permanent stalls. They alleged in the petition that they have been suffering losses because the police and administration force them to shift base frequently. The high court issued a direction in the first week of March that a representation be made before the   district magistrate to effectively dispose of the matter. We have forwarded the order to the administration,” Dayanand Prasad, OSD of GDA, said.
 
 On February 23, the vendors’ committee had also submitted applications to the district magistrate and the police highlighting constant harassment. Administration officials said a decision would be taken on the vendors’ representation although the GDA is the sole authority to decide if the flea market is authorised or illegal.
 
 “If it comes to light that any cop has arm-twisted the vendors for money, strict action will be taken against him. A case of extortion will be registered against the errant cop and he will be sent behind bars,” Ghaziabad SSP Deepak Kumar said.
 
 
