ALLAHABAD: The   of   and   have come on the same platform against the administration of   and   RL Hangloo. 

 A seven-member fact finding committee of SP visited the campus on Monday and met the protesting students and assured them of all possible help. The team also met the VC and went to Naini jail to meet the jailed student leaders and assured them that the student wing as well as Samajwadi Party would fight for the welfare of the students and see to it that they are released unconditionally. 
 
 Joining the ongoing protest on the campus, a number of former MLAs and MLCs of the SP arrived at the union hall and voiced their support in favour of the protesting students. The team members also included Rahul Singh, the national president of Chhatra Sabha, Digvijay Singh Dev. Rajpal Kashyap, president of Lucknow University student union would meet the protesting student leaders on the campus on Tuesday. 
 
 Later, the team led by SP MLA from Atrauli, Azamgarh, Sangram Yadav met the VC and heard his views on the present crisis. The crisis is allegedly because of the callous approach of the university administration and the communication gap between the VC and student leaders, said Abhishek Yadav, a former student . 
 
 On the question of sharing the dais with the student wing of BJP, the SP leaders said this is not about the politics but the larger interest of the student fraternity who has been subjected to brutality by the district administration and injustice by the university y authorities, said Krishan Murti Singh Yadav, district president of SP. "We are better than BJP leaders who have not thought of meeting the young leaders of ABVP," he added. 
 
 When the party says it will fight for the unconditional release of the jailed student leaders, the SP does not talk only about student leaders of Chhatra Sabha but also those belonging to student wing of BJP. 
 
 Commenting on SP team coming to the campus, president of AU student union, Rohit Mishra, who is in jail and came to university to appear in examination on Monday, said this is more about issue pertaining to welfare of the student community and less of which party supports the cause. Mishra is a member of ABVP.
 
 
