New Delhi:   operative   was reporting to  , “head of intelligence wing” at the Pak High Commission in Delhi, with sensitive documents procured from Indian agents, the chargesheet filed by police has claimed.

 In a rare occurrence, the court document has put on record the entire interrogation report. Akhtar reportedly admitted that he was a head constable in Pakistan army’s 40 Baloch regiment and later inducted into ISI on deputation, trained and sent to India for espionage activities.
 
 He told interrogators: “I was procuring documents for money for a long time. ISI paid this money to me in advance or, at times, after submitting bills. Today, on October 26, Ramzan and Subhash had come to provide me documents pertaining to defence. We were nabbed while I was scrutinising the papers. The two were paid through Hawala channels.”
 
 Akhtar claimed that many people from Bhopal, Hyderabad and Mewat handed over sensitive documents to him. “Farhat Khan, PA to Samajwadi Party MP (Chaudhary Munawwar Salim), has been in touch with ISI since 1996. My predecessor handed over his details and contacts to me when he was returning to Pakistan,” his statement said.
 
 Akhtar said that Indian agents never called him up on his official mobile number. “I asked them to procure SIM cards and phones on forged identities. I used one number to be in touch with 2-3 agents. The handsets and SIM cards are kept in the embassy. At times, I used the embassy landline phones too,” Akhtar was quoted as saying. Police have also video-recorded the statement.
 
 They have given a detailed description of how a local cyber cafe in Nagaur, Rajasthan, was used to transmit information. “At the instance of the accused, Maulana Ramzan Khan, a cyber cafe called Himani E-Mitar was traced. The owner identified Khan and also corroborated the disclosures made by him. The hard disk of the computer system, used for downloading and printing the information, was seized,” says the report.
 
 A supplementary chargesheet will soon be filed in the case as police await further reports from BSF and forensics.
 
 
