DEHRADUN: Away from the  , a group of 225 people comprising veteran mountaineer Bachendri Pal, film director Tigmanshu Dhulia and others, has been trying hard to stitch together an alliance of “righteous” individuals who can rid the   state.
 Named as  , the group has been holding rallies to encourage people choose the right candidates for the  . The forum, which has also a number of retired defence personnel, says that it has found 11 independent candidates whom it will support with whatever money they could arrange.
  “The ultimate aim is to motivate people to choose the right candidate, who will not only be of good character but will also work towards development of the state. We are totally apolitical, but will support the independent candidates who have been selected,” said former governor of Mizoram and Puducherry Lt Gen (retd) MM Lakhera, the patron of Uttarakhand Vikalp.
  Uttarkhand Vikalp (alternative for Uttarakhand) came into being last year with an aim to rid the state politics of corruption.
  “We will not accept any donation from any organisation or people who are not part of our group. We will fund the candidate from the money collected from the group members. Elections should not be fought on money power and that is not an impossible task," Lakhera said.
  The group also plans to seek a declaration from the candidates that at no point, they will join hands with other parties who are apparently “playing games with people of the state”.
  Col (retd) D P Dimri, a member of the group, told TOI: “If the candidate, who we are supporting, wins the election then he/she will have to sign an affidavit saying that they will not tie up with any political party in the future. This is to ensure absolute honesty and in case someone breaks this rule, we will file a lawsuit against them.”
  Currently, there are 225 members in the group.
  Elaborating on the future plans, Dimri said: “Till now, 11 candidates have been selected. But, we are expecting this number to go up to at least 15. We are also looking for more women leaders as currently we just have one from Rudraprayag.”
