HYDERABAD:   is back in the city with health officials attributing one death and around 20 positive cases to it in the last 10 days.

 Thirty-five-year-old Manjula, a Domalguda resident died at state-run   on January 5. Sources said she was a native of Yadadri district. Manjula died barely a few hours after she was admitted to hospital. Health authorities confirmed the   virus in her swab samples two days after she passed away. “She came at a very late stage to our hospital and died within five to six hours of admission,” said Dr J V Reddy, superintendent, Gandhi Hospital.
 
 Though the state-run hospital, which is the nodal hospital for treating swine flu cases, is now treating only one in patient, private hospitals across the city are reporting fresh H1N1 cases, said sources.
 
 The break-up of 20-odd cases reported in the last 10 days in the city include five from Hyderabad district and 15 from the newly-carved out Medchal and Rangareddy districts respectively.
 
 City health experts have said cold wave conditions have created a suitable environment for the H1N1 virus to thrive. “During a cold wave, there are more chances of viral infections including H1N1 virus spreading through droplets. This is more so in cases where patients either fall in the high risk group (such as pregnant women and elderly people) or are already suffering from upper respiratory tract infections, which makes them pre-disposed to catch the H1N1 infection,” said Dr Rahul Agrawal, senior consultant physician, Maxcure hospitals, Madhapur.
 
 The Telangana government confirmed that   left eight persons dead last year including seven deaths recorded at Gandhi Hospital alone. In all, 120 positive cases were reported from the state including including 98 cases from the city, according to a statement made by Telangana health minister Dr C Laxma Reddy in the legislative council recently.
 
 “Vaccination available in the market costing about Rs 1,000 is strongly recommended especially for high risk people,” said Dr Hari Kishan Boorugu, consultant Physician, Apollo Hospital, Hyderguda, while stressing more on prevention than cure. While quoting recent studies, which looked at the effectiveness of flu vaccine, he said their efficacy is about 50 per cent.
 
 
