MUMBAI: The   ( ) has seized unlicensed orthopaedic implants worth over Rs 2 crore in 10 days from dealers across the state, indicating widespread purchase and use of medical devices from dubious distributors. Adding to the seriousness of the problem is the entry of unlicensed players in the manufacturing of the implants.

 Around nine stores in the city, including one opposite KEM Hospital in Parel, are under the FDA 's scanner for purchase of orthopaedic implants from an unlicenced distributor in Grant road.An FDA team visited the hospital on Monday to find out if it procured implants centrally or the choice was left to patients.
 
 “Gujarat and Delhi have emerged as the hotbeds for unlicensed implant manufacturing and distribution. The purchase of such material is rampant in Mumbai.Several city stores are getting the implants from unauthorized manufacturers who may or may not follow quality protocols, which is a cause for worry . It could have serious implications on the health of patients,“ said a FDA official.TOI has learnt that the second part of the investigation will focus on the role of doctors.
 
 An investigation into the implant industry began after the FDA stumbled upon a racket operating from the premises of GT Hospital (see box). The implants included screws, bolts, plates, cups, rods, etc. commonly used to treat fractures, joint surgeries, hip and knee replacements. Their price can vary widely . The probe that started from the Crawford Market hospital has now spread to 10 districts. “As of now we are trying to crack down on the illegal market. Once that is done, we will look deeper. It has to be found out who directs the patients to such stores,“ said Dr Om Prakash Sadhwani, assistant commissioner, FDA.
 
 The quality test of implants is likely to begin soon. Sadhwani said it will offer clarity on whether the firms only faltered in paperwork or they compromised on quality as well.
 
 “By and large, the patients are given a choice from a range of implants, the rates for which are subsidized. Those who cannot pay are anyway allotted funds from the poor box fund,“ said KEM dean Dr Avinash Supe. An orthopaedic surgeon from Sion Hospital said they kept a stringent watch on quality by observing the outcome of surgeries.
 
