NAGPUR: Candidates wanting to represent the   in the forthcoming civic elections have alleged that tickets were being “openly sold for Rs3 to Rs5 lakh”. 

  distributed B forms to 120 candidates for the NMC polls. However, four sitting corporators, including Manisha Ghodeshwar, Lalita Patil and Harshala Jaiswal were denied the ticket. Former party leader in the NMC, Murli Meshram and some other office bearers, were among those rejected. 
 
 Both, Meshram and Jaiswal told TOI on Saturday that they were asking to bring the money without which “we would not be given the party stamp to contest”.
 
 Much before the civic elections were announced, the Bahujan Samaj Party in the city was in a very strong position because of its well-knit cadres and grass roots organization. There was speculation that it could win at least 30 seats eating up the Congress share of backward class- minority votes in its strongholds in the new multi-member ward (prabhag) system.
 
 All this changed on Friday. Local party leaders believe the BSP has hit a self-goal by denying tickets to four of the 12 sitting corporators and many more stronger candidates. “Now we will be lucky if we get into double digits,’ said a senior party functionary. 
 
 A key party functionary in the city who contested the Assembly polls was not found fit for civic polls and denied a ticket. “Those in-charge of ticket distribution openly demanded money. For poor committed workers who bank on loyalty of voters, this was a shock,” said a state committee member of the party.
 
 The money-for-ticket controversy has engulfed the Mayawati-led BSP in the past too. This time the absence of party in-charge for state affairs Veer Singh from the scene seems to have added to the last minute mess over nominations.
 
 Singh was busy in campaigning for his son who is contesting for Assembly seat in UP elections. State president   and party’s observer Gaurishankar Upasak who finalized the lists were accused of ignoring rightful claims for pecuniary gains.
 
 “Candidates are forced to cough up money. Even office-bearers and those who build the party in the city were not spared,” alleged Meshram, who represents Indora prabhag in the NMC. He has now joined the NCP and his wife, Maya, is contesting from prabhag 7 (C) on an NCP ticket. 
 
 Dissident Sanjay Jaiswal, husband of sitting corporator Harshala, had made similar charges against the BSP. Now the Jaiswal couple has decided to teach the party a lesson as they both are contesting as independent candidates. Harshala will be contesting from prabhag 6 and he will be in fray number 7.
 
 In 2007 too, the party had denied tickets to sitting corporators including Habib-ur-Rehman, who was the Ashi Nagar zone panel head, Archana Shende and Devendra Waghmare. 
 
 In the 2002 NMC polls, the BSP had debuted in NMC and won nine seats, with Vishranti Zamre, Ashok Yewle, Vikas Nagbhide, Kavita Landge, Rahul Telang, Sanjay Jaiswal, Pushpa Bedse, Deepak Jambhulkar and   representing it. 
 
 The three-member Nari prabhag was entirely dominated by BSP candidates. 
 
 
