The   may have woken up late to the benefits and damage potential of  . Now that they are on to it, they are blaming every party, DMK, PMK, BJP as well as the rival faction, for the memes on Sasikala that have gone viral.

 The IT wing has also launched a Twitter campaign with hashtag 'unfairgovernor' against Tamil Nadu governor Vidyasagar Rao on Wednesday .“It has already started trending in Chennai. We are targeting 3,000 to 3,500 tweets of the hashtag within 24 hours. We are tagging the Prime Minister's office, President and home ministry,'' said V V R Raj Satyan, AIADMK's IT wing secretary. The party hopes that this would go viral and pressure the governor to invite Edappadi K Palaniswami to prove his majority .
 
 But that is easier said than done as was evident from counter tweets in support of the governor. “We are working on various other ideas as well,'' said Raj Satyan who was made the secretary after his predecessor Ramachandran switched to the OPS camp. One of them was a 20 second, pre­ recorded message that was sent to random mobile numbers in Chennai urging them to question the delay by the governor in inviting Palaniswami to prove his strength in the assembly.
 
 Sasikala, meanwhile, con tinues to face a social media onslaught. Dozens of memes of various hues ­ funny , taunting, ridiculing and some offensive land up on social media sites every day.
 
 IT wing sources said they have identified more than 180 people who post such messages and memes, many of them former IT wing functionaries who have switched over to the OPS camp. The AIADMK IT wing has 130 members who work from across the state. One of the members said they used to generate five to ten memes and infographics ten days ago. But after OPS rebelled and the barrage of memes on Sasikala increased they are doing 200 to 250 memes a day to counter the online campaign.
 
 For now, the party has decided to counterattack on social media but would initiate legal action shortly . “We have gathered the names, phone numbers and addresses of those behind these memes. We are preparing complaints against them,'' said Satyan.
 
 But a member of OPS' IT wing says many of the memes were generated by the people. “They don't understand that public sentiment is against them,'' he said.
 
