NEW DELHI: The special cell of the Delhi Police has arrested a former international kabaddi player-turned-gangster as one of two prime suspects in the   of BJP worker Gajender Bhati early this month in Ghaziabad. Police are now looking for Congress leader Amarpal Sharma, who allegedly is the mastermind of the killing.

 The arrested man, Raj Kumar, alias Raju Pehelwan (33), was part of the Indian kabaddi team that had won a gold medal at the Asian championship in 2007 in Sri Lanka, police said. DCP (special cell) Sanjeev Yadav said Kumar had represented Uttar Pradesh at the national level between 2005 and 2009. Kumar was about to execute another contract killing, of a mall owner, for which was to be paid a supari of Rs 8 lakh, police claimed, adding he had taken Rs 30,000 as an advance.
 
 During interrogation, Kumar disclosed that he and Bhati had become enemies in 2013 when they had an altercation in Greater Noida after their vehicles had collided. Kumar had been severely injured and an FIR for attempted murder had been filed against Bhati. Bhati then allegedly fired a gun at Kumar’s factory in Noida, soon after which Kumar was forced to wind up his business.
 
 It was this enmity that Sharma allegedly exploited to settle political scores with Bhati. Sharma was aware that Kumar had links to the notorious Anil Dujana gang and that he could arrange weapons and other things easily.
 
 Kumar told his interrogators he had been roped in by Narender Fauzi — arrested earlier in the case — an aide to Amarpal Sharma, a former BSP MLA from Sahibabad. A man named Mukesh Bittoo, the pradhan of his village Bhoopkheri, in Loni, had set up Kumar’s meeting with Fauzi and Sharma.
 
 “Due to political rivalry, Amarpal Sharma wanted to eliminate Bhati. To execute this task, a conspiracy was hatched at the farmhouse of Amarpal Sharma at village Jawli, Loni, and Sharma gave the contract for killing Bhati to Kumar and Fauzi. The contract was finalised for Rs 10 lakh and Rs 50,000 had been paid as advance,” DCP Yadav said.
 
 The two reconnoitred their target and found an opportune moment after a month. The two shot Bhati dead on September 2 and escaped on a motorcycle. The Ghaziabad police had arrested Fauzi on September 11. 
 
 Kumar was arrested after a team led by inspectors Sanjay Nagpal and Pankaj Kumar got a tip-off about his presence in Siraspur area of Delhi. Kumar was trying to flee to Haryana. “The team spotted him at an abandoned bus stop at Siraspur Gurdwara, GT Karnal Road. On being challenged, he took to his heels, but he was overpowered and arrested,” Yadav added.
 
