LUCKNOW: Declining to issue any directions for making singing of the   in the high   and its subordinate courts mandatory, the Lucknow bench of Allahabad high court has said that there is no law and, in fact, there has been no tradition of singing of the national anthem either inside courts or in its offices as a matter of daily routine either in this high court or any other of the country or even Supreme Court. “We dismiss this   with the faith and hope that everybody concerned would continue to respect the national anthem as desired and as expected, but we find ourselves unable to issue any such compulsive direction by way of a mandate as prayed for in this writ petition”, said a bench of Justice A P Sahi and Justice Sanjai Harkauli.

 The court issued the order on Friday, which it had reserved on January 25. The court had, however, already said on the last date that it was setting aside the PIL, but it would issue a detailed order on February 3. The PIL was moved by local lawyer S K Gupta seeking a direction to every court in the state to ensure singing of national anthem before work every morning. The petitioner had given the example of the apex court whereby it had asked the cinema halls to play the national anthem before screening of movies.
 
 Delivering the verdict, the bench observed, “The recital of a national anthem cannot be equated with such a divine prayer so as to compel its recital by the officials of a public institution as a routine exercise so as to instill any patriotism or sense of duty. In our opinion, the performance of a duty is more essential, as work is real worship. To respect the national anthem is to believe in it and believe in the true ideals of our Constitution. A performance of a daily singing of the national anthem in courts may not by itself be a reflection of Constitutional respect.”
 
 Discussing article 51-A of the Constitution of India which envisages respect for national anthem, the bench said, “True patriotism only fosters love for one’s country and respect for one’s belonging to a nation. The sense of belonging is, therefore, an inherent feeling and not a matter of compulsion. The feeling is, therefore, natural and reaffirms the sense of belonging to a nation”.
 
 Pointing out to the Allahabad high court Rules 1952, the bench earlier said that there is no rule or tradition to chant national anthem in courts. The Supreme Court’s recent verdict also does not mandate for all courts to chant national anthem every day.
 
 
