VIJAYAWADA: Chief minister N   on Friday announced the setting up of three special courts to handle cases related to trade and commercial disputes in the state. To come up in Amaravati, Visakhapatnam and Tirupati, these special courts will start functioning soon after the   gives its approval.

 Addressing the international workshop on   (IPR), Naidu said the special courts would settle disputes an investor might face either with the state or any other agency . The announcement is expected to reassure investors who are worried that disputes involving trade could get entangled in legal wrangles and come in the way of their investments.The courts would ensure that such disputes are settled at the earliest.
 
 Naidu also said AP would see the construction of a `Justice City' in Amaravati. “We are going to construct an exclusive Justice City that will be spread over nearly 3,300 acres and houses the high court, all tribunals, legal training institutes, research and reference lab,“ he said.
 
 The CM hoped that Justice City would become a research centre for top legal luminaries in the country as they are proposing to bring internationally acclaimed institutes in law field to the capital city. “Cyber crimes are new age crimes and moving along with time is very crucial to prevent such crimes,“ he said. The CM made a PowerPoint presentation at the seminar highlighting various projects and initiatives taken up by the TDP government. Naidu, in sync with his `tech-savvy CM' image, presented to the legal luminaries, including   judges justice NV Ramana, justice Madan B Lokur, acting chief justice of Hyderabad High Court justice Ramesh Ranganathan and Delhi High Court Chief Justice G Rohini, a virtual inspection of the Polavaram project construction work with the help of drones right from the convention centre.
 
 He explained to the judges as to how the drones were helping him track the work by sitting in his camp office and ensuring that officials and contractors meet the deadlines.The judges applauded the initiative of the chief minister. The seminar is being jointly organized by the   (JETRO),   (BBA) and   (APEDB).
 
