JAIPUR: The bio-diversity of the Ranthambore   (RTR) has thrown up a surprise. In what could be news for botanists, a thriving patch of Litsea Glutinosa, essentially rainforest trees, were noticed in the RTR.

 Presence of this species in RTR is its first report from Ranthambore as well as from Rajasthan, hence it is worth placing on the records, says a Bionature journal. Though park is known for tigers and other faunal species but its flora is also an attraction for the scholars. 
 
 Various aspects of the flora of Ranthambore have been studied by many workers. Recently, an extensive and intensive study of the flora of the park was presented by Singh and Shrivastava who reported 98 families, 328 genera and 539 species from RTR. But L Glutinosa is missing in their flora. The first reporting of the tree was done by  , ACF Forests and  , Conservation Biologist, Tiger Watch, in the Bionature Journal.
 
 “Confluence of Aravallis and Vindhyas mountain ranges is present within the legal boundaries of the park. Hence, biotic elements of both the mountain ranges are present in the Tiger Reserve. Though park is known for tigers and other faunal species but its flora is also an attraction for the scholars. A patch of Litsea Glutinosa trees were identified on the way to main gate of Tiger Reserve to Ranthambore fort near a step well locally called mor-kund. The trees were growing in the second storey of the forests. 
 
 Trees bear glossy, large sized alternate leaves, which are thinly coriaceous and softly hairy on both surfaces initially,” said Khandal. Talking botanically, the leaves, later become smooth and shiny towards their upper surfaces though do possess soft hair on network of nerves. Petioles, inflorescence axes and branchlets are also softly hairy. Drying leaves placed between bloating papers become more leathery. Inflorescences are axillary in nature and may appear in the axil of every leaf.
 
 Besides, the flowers are yellowish to greenish-yellow in heads of 8-12 flowers. Fruits spherical, shining and seated on a characteristics thickened green stalks, which are actually remains of the flower tubes. Fruits turn purple at the maturity and ultimately become blackish in color, explained Khandal.
 
 Trees observed in RTR are present in shady and moist micro- habitat between road and a stream in the gorge of the Vindhyan hills. Since trees are present close to road hence no excavation should be allowed for maintenance of the road to ensure safety of the trees, the forest department has been requested.
 
