LUCKNOW: In a jolt to the ruling  , its sitting MLA and declared candidate from Bah, Mahendra Aridaman Singh, joined the   in New Delhi on Saturday. 

 Singh, a former minister in the UP government, was also among those who signed affidavits in support of UP chief minister   as national president of the Samajwadi Party. Singh, BJP insiders told TOI, appears to have lent his support to Akhilesh even though he had been in talks with the BJP for several months. 
 
 Singh's wife and SP candidate from Kheragarh, Pakshalika Singh, also joined the BJP on Saturday. UP BJP chief Keshav Prasad Maurya and state in charge Om Mathur were present during the joining ceremony. 
 
 Aridaman Singh is SP’s sitting MLA from Bah constituency in Agra district. Kheragarh assembly seat, from where she has got a ticket this time, is a neighbouring constituency and falls in the same district. Pakshalika had lost the Kheragarh Assembly constituency in 2012, which she had fought on an SP ticket, and also lost during the 2014 Lok Sabha polls, when she fought from the Fatehpur Sikri seat.
 
 This is not the first time Singh and his wife have joined the BJP. The head of the Bah Estate, Singh has been MLA since 1989. His stint was interrupted in 2007, when Madhusudan Sharma of BSP upstaged him. The 'Raja' of Bah, though, has been a traditional party hopper. From 1989 to 1993, he was legislator on a Janata Dal ticket. He switched loyalties to the BJP in 1996, only to part ways with them and to wrest the seat back as an SP candidate after five years. 
 
 Sources in the BJP said that even though Singh had been in talks with BJP for several months, he delayed his joining until he received an assurance that the BJP would also field his wife Pakshalika from Kheragarh. Though she joined the BJP along with Singh on Saturday, it remains uncertain whether the party intends to give her a ticket.
 
 A day before Singh joined the BJP, the SP faced another defection, when former Union Minister Ashok Pradhan, who had been with the party under former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee, joined the BJP. Pradhan, a four-term member of Parliament from Khurja, had earlier quit the saffron party to join SP.
 
 
