KOLKATA:   on Wednesday effectively withdrew his resignation from the chairman's post and agreed to head the   ( ) till the end of his two-year term that ends in June next year.

 The ICC confirmed the development through an email. "Shashank Manohar will continue to function as the Independent Chairman of ICC until the end of his elected term which is June 2018," the ICC said in a statement.
 
 Manohar, who had tendered his resignation from the post on March 15 on "personal grounds", had been subsequently persuaded by fellow ICC members to continue until his successor was elected at the world body's annual conference in June, 2017.
 
 In fact, the ICC Board had passed a resolution with an overwhelming majority, requesting Manohar "to withdraw his resignation or defer his decision until the reforms programme pertaining to governance and financial restructuring is completed".
 
 Twelve of the 13 cricket Boards, including the   ( ), of which Manohar is former president, had signed the resolution.
 
 Manohar had partially relented. In a statement, issued through the ICC on March 24, Manohar had said: "I respect the sentiments expressed by the directors and the confidence they have reposed in me. In the light of this, and although my decision to depart due to personal reasons has not changed, I am willing to continue as chairman till the responsibility as per the resolution is complete. I have a duty to work with my colleagues to enable a smooth transition and continue our work on the governance of the ICC."
 
 The wheel came full circle for Manohar on Wednesday and augurs well for the ICC which can now go ahead and implement the reforms that have already been passed by the member Boards at the Dubai conclave last month.
 
 With the BCCI too falling in line and clearing the Indian team's participation in the Champions Trophy, truce is the watchword in global cricketing circles. It's a big setback for the power brokers fuelling the ICCBCCI feud. They will have to come up with something new to retain their nuisance value.
 
 If the BCCI mandarins play their cards wisely, the Indian Board can still pocket the additional $100 million that was offered to them at the last ICC meeting by Manohar. Even though the new revenue model was voted upon and passed with an overwhelming majority, the BCCI may still find enough elbow room to push for a little more at the ICC's annual conference in June.
 
 The onus will also be on BCCI to mount some serious public relations exercise in a bid to regain the confidence of other member nations in the ICC who were clearly put off by the pressure tactics employed by the Indian Board representatives who deliberately delayed naming the national squad for the upcoming Champions Trophy.
 
 In the given scenario, a spirit of give and take could be the best way forward as the BCCI goes about finalising a number of bilateral series to fill its international calendar. In doing so, the Board officials will have put the interests of Team India first, especially if  's bravehearts are to hold on to their No. 1 spot in ICC Test ranking and look to push up the table in the two shorter formats.
 
 Interesting times ahead for Indian cricket as a whole.
 
