PATNA: The state government will move the Supreme Court against the conditional bail granted by the Patna high court to Amit Kumar alias   in the Intermediate topper scam.

 The state home department on Wednesday agreed to the suggestions made in this regard by principal additional advocate general Lalit Kishore.
 
 Justice Birendra Kumar on Tuesday had directed the court concerned to frame charges against Bachcha within a month before granting him bail.
 
 Bachcha is the director of   in Vaishali. The college had hogged the limelight in the topper scam for ensuring maximum marks to its undeserving candidates by managing the   (BSEB) and its officials. He was arrested on June 11 last year. Bachcha was one of the masterminds of the scam. The then BSEB chairman Lalkeshwar Prasad Singh, his wife and former JD(U) MLA Usha Sinha, board secretary Hariharnath Jha and several others were arrested for their connivance in the scam. Usha was granted bail by the special vigilance court-I on November 30 last year.
 
 Kishore said the court, while granting bail, should have considered the important points raised in the case diary, which were brought to its notice. “Bachcha had proximity with Lalkeshwar and his personal secretary Vikash Chandra. He had confessed to paying hefty amount to the BSEB boss in his office. In addition, Vishun Roy College’s official had also revealed that Bachchca used to take money from the parents in the name of ensuring them good marks,” Kishore said, adding that the bail petitions of Hariharnath and   principal   were cancelled on the same grounds mentioned in the case diary.
 
 Kishore, citing the case diary, also said the SIT (special investigation team) probing the scam had seized stamps of several officials, blank admit cards of the previous three years and answer booklets from Bachcha’s college. “Evaluation centre for all the colleges in Vaishali were in Kaimur, but Vishun Roy College’s evaluation centre was first shifted to Rajendra Balak High School and later to the BSEB itself,” Kishore added.
 
 The court of Justice Vinod Kumar Sinha, on February 22, will hear the bail petitions of Lalkeshwar and Hariharnath in connection with the copy tender scam which also surfaced during the topper scam. Lalkeshwar’s single bail petition in the topper scam would come up for hearing on February 20 before Justice Birendra Kumar.
 
