BHUBANESWAR:   has decided to send letters rogatory to governments of the   (UAE) and Nigeria to gather information about international business operations of  , CMD of Green Ray International Limited (GRIL), a chit fund company that duped investors in Odisha and other states of over Rs 1,000 crore. 

 This is the first instance of the CBI coming across a chit fund scam, having cross border ramification and money laundering via hawala brokers. 
 
 At present, the probe agency is investigating frauds by 44 chit fund companies following the   directive in April 2014. 
 
 "We will request the ministry of home affairs and ministry of external affairs to send the letters rogatory to embassies of UAE and Nigeria where Sahiruddin invested huge money in mining business and bullion trade. The letters rogatory will be served to the concerned country's apex courts. The courts will give the order to respective governments to supply us information about business ventures of Sahiruddin," a CBI officer told TOI. CBI said some absconding associates of Sahiruddin are still in Nigeria. 
 
 After GRIL went bust in 2013 and police registered cheating cases against the company, Sahiruddin fled to Dubai. From Dubai he flew to Nigeria and started his mining business in the African country. 
 
 CBI said Sahiruddin, who was arrested from Kolkata on February 3, was not cooperating during investigation. CBI took him on six-day remand on Sunday. "He is keeping mum when we asked him about his international business deals. He must have stashed huge money at some undisclosed location," the officer said.
 
 On Monday, three wives of Sahiruddin and his parents turned up at the CBI office. But they avoided media queries. They even did not divulge their names. They just said Sahiruddin is innocent.
 
 CBI did not rule out possible involvement of some of their family members in the scam. "We are checking their bank accounts. We will also consult the   (ED) to dig into GRILs financial transactions," the officer informed. On Friday, Sahiruddin's luck ran out when he was trying to open bank accounts in names of his three wives in a bank at Rajarhat on the outskirts of Kolkata. 
 
 
