PUNE: A three-year-old girl died after falling from the open balcony of her house on the seventh floor of a building in   off   in Kothrud on Thursday morning, just a day after celebrating her birthday.

 The incident happened around 7.30am when the child was alone in the flat. Her mother, a software engineer had left home for work around 7.15 am. Her father, who also works with a software company, had gone down to drop his elder daughter off at the bus stop of her schoolbus, while her grandmother was at a yoga session on the premises of the housing complex. Her grandfather had gone to their native place in Nashik.
 
 A resident of the building told TOI that the father usually took the child along with him while dropping his elder daughter at the bus stop. “On Thursday, as the child was sleeping, he may not have wanted to disturb her and went alone,” the resident said.
 
 Santosh, who was washing cars in the building’s parking lot, heard a thud near the entrance. “When he came out of the lot, he was shocked to see the little girl lying unconscious of the ground,” a security guard said.
 
 The guard said that Santosh immediately picked the child up. At the same time, the father had also returned. With help from two residents, the child was rushed to a nearby private hospital.
 
 Inspector of the Alankar police station,  , said the girl was declared dead on arrival by doctors at the hospital. “She was later taken to   for an autopsy,” Shinde said.
 
 Shinde said that the balcony was not closed. “We suspect that after waking up, the child may have panicked on not finding anyone else in the flat,” he said.
 
 Shinde said that the child, who knew her father usually went to drop her sister off, may have gone to the balcony to look for them and accidentally fell. “We will register a case of accidental death,” he added.
 
 Writing on the wall
 
 Shinde added that the family had celebrated the child’s birthday on Wednesday. “When we went to their flat on Thursday morning, the decorations were still there. It was sad to see the girl’s name on the wall,” Shinde told TOI.
 
 Residents of the society were shocked that such a tragedy had struck the family so soon after a celebration. 
 
 Guards and many residents said the child was lively and very cute, and loved playing outside.
 
 Open balcony
 
 The balcony of the family’s seventh floor flat was open with a 4-ft parapet wall and a railing of iron rods on it. “The building is comparatively new. Residents shifted to the building only about a year ago, due to which most balconies are not covered. Balconies of other buildings in the complex are covered with grills,” a resident of the society said.
 
 “We suspect the child may have used something to climb up to the parapet wall to look for her father. She may have fallen through the gap between the wall and the railings,” the resident said.
 
