LUCKNOW: Uttar Pradesh   Aditya Nath Yogi said on Wednesday that MLAs of the ruling party should raise questions in the House. He even urged MLAs to allow House   to go on till late in the night.

 He was speaking on the first day of the two-day “Prabodhan (Enlightenment) Karyakram” here, attended by the 403 MLAs of the UP assembly, with as many as 238 newcomers, who comprise 59% of the House. They were told about ethics and procedural nuances of the   by an array of speakers including the CM, governor  , Speaker Hridya Narain Dixit, Gujarat Speaker   and leader of Opposition in UP assembly Ram Gobind Chaudhary.
 
 Yogi, who would be making his debut in UP assembly, said: “Politicians ko ek jagah baithana, mendhak ko taraju mein taulane ke barabar hai (To ensure so many politicians sit at one place is equivalent to weighing frogs on a balancing scale).” 
 
 Yogi said that House proceedings continuing till late has been the case in the Lok Sabha too. While asking MLAs to continue with House proceedings till late, Yogi urged the Speaker—on a lighter note—to ensure that members get food while the sessions go on till late in the night.
 
 Yogi, who works late into the night reviewing different state departments along with his cabinet colleagues, has already scrapped 15 public holidays and prescribed 18-hour work days in government offices since he took oath as chief minister on March 19. 
 
 Urging the 238 first-time MLAs to work in their constituencies in such a way that people are forced to send them to assembly again and again, the chief minister said that the UP government would co-operate fully in ensuring that the House works for at least 90 days in a year. 
 
 “People’s representatives are losing credibility these days,” the CM said, and added that the main reason behind it was low attendance of members in the House and indulgence in corruption. Though very few are involved in corruption, he said, such acts bring a bad name to all legislators.
 
 Replying to a query from a first-time MLA from BJP, leader of Opposition Ram Gobind Chaudhary said that the ruling party members should ask questions but should keep in mind that their questions don’t put their own government on the mat.
 
 Naik, emphasising on the need to remain alert in the House, cited instances of how he had helped start the tradition of singing the national anthem and national song in Parliament.
 
 
