GURUGRAM: Gurugram police have arrested one of its officers in connection with the fake   scam that was unearthed last month.

 The suspended in-charge of the police arms licence branch, Virender Singh, was taken into custody by the special investigating team (SIT) on Friday, a day after TOI reported that the mastermind in the scam,   alias Kala, had named four cops, including Singh and a former in-charge of the police arms licence branch, as his collaborators. All the four policemen named in the scam are currently under suspension.
 
 “We have arrested sub-inspector Virender Singh, who was suspended due to his suspected involvement in the scam. During investigation, we found that Singh had issued manual no-objection certificates for arms licences to the main accused without following any procedure. We are interrogating him and will produce him in a city court on Saturday,” said ACP Anil Yadav, head of SIT. However, the police have not yet disclosed the role of the other three cops — inspector Jasmer Singh, former in-charge of the arms licence branch, Joint CP’s reader ASI Vikas and branch employee head constable Mahesh in the scam. 
 
 But sources said Bhardwaj told cops during interrogation that he had given the four their “share” of the spoils, on the basis of each licence registered. 
 
 While the role of the other three cops is yet to be confirmed, sources said Bhardwaj claimed he had paid Rs 50,000 to Rs 1 lakh per licence to both the former and the present in-charges of the licence branch. ACP Yadav said “the investigation is on and they are verifying all the records of re-registration of fake arms licences”. “If any evidence is found against any other cop, action will be taken,” he said.
 
 It may be noted that Gurgaon police had last month unearthed the scam and an FIR was registered against Bhardwaj and his accomplice, Mohan Lal, for allegedly getting fake licences of 15 firearms renewed in the city. 
 
 A probe by joint commissioner of police, Sibas Kabiraj, revealed that fake licenses were issued in connivance with staff of joint commissioner office, agents and other departments.
 
 
