Nagpur: State-run power generation company Mahagenco, which is always in the news for its higher cost of production, has now been caught awarding works without tender process. As per government norms, no work above Rs3 lakh can be awarded without floating bids. However, information obtained by Shiv Sena leader Chandrahas Raut shows that this rule has been brazenly flouted in Koradi and Chandrapur power plants over past few months. There is a strong possibility that by awarding works on rate contract basis, Mahagenco has paid more to contractors. This extra cost is recovered from citizens by way of higher power tariff. Raut told TOI that six works worth Rs23.38 lakh were awarded to various companies in April and July 2015 without floating tenders. These works included supply of land nut and diaphragm set, consultancy services for election WT, repair of starter and alternator, welding work, supply of bottom half casing and utilization of assistance services.  Commenting on this, a Mahagenco official said that these works were technical in nature and hence could be done only by the equipment manufacturer and its authorized suppliers. “There is a system of delegation of responsibility in Mahagenco. No norm has been violated. Had there been some irregularity, internal and external audit teams would have pointed it out,” he added. Even if this explanation is accepted, this does not explain awarding of works by Chandrapur power plant in summer of 2015. These works included lifting of soil dumped in switching yard, construction of toe drain, cleaning rain water from drain, repairing road by filling up potholes, desilting of nullah, fixing of height gauge at level crossing, removal of debris, etc. The total cost of these works was Rs64.95 lakh. On this, the official said that Mahagenco was in a hurry to meet the requirements of union ministry of environment, forests and climate change (MoEFCC) and hence works were awarded without tender process.  Raut however, trashed this explanation. “The plant officials have nexus with certain contractors and in order to ensure that only these contractors get the work, they avoid floating tenders. The works are thus awarded at a higher cost and leads to loss of public money. The extra money is recovered from public by way of higher power tariff,” he said. The Sena leader further charged that the government was not interested in stopping these irregularities. “I had written to chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, energy minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule and MSPGCL managing director but did not get any response,” he added.