PATNA: The Centre’s ambitious crime and   network and system ( ) scheme, which was launched by the then Union home minister   in January 2013 and carried forward by the Narendra Modi-led NDA government, is yet to be implemented in the state.

 In fact, the state government has not yet finalised tenders for the project, the deadline for which ended on March 31. Sources said the Centre may stop allocating funds for the project as its deadline has already expired. Last year, the Centre had pumped in Rs 250 crore for the project, considered vital for the country’s  . 
 
 The project is aimed at making the police functioning   and more transparent by automating the functioning of  , improving delivery of citizen-centric services through effective usage of information and communication technology, providing the investigating officers of the civil police with tools, technology and information to facilitate investigation of crime and detection of criminals, improving police functioning in various other areas such as law and order and traffic management, facilitating interaction and sharing of information among police stations, districts, state/UT headquarters and other police agencies, assisting senior police officers in better management of police force, keeping track of the progress of cases, including in courts and reducing manual and redundant records keeping.
 
 If implemented, State Crime Record Bureau and police stations in Bihar would be connected with National Data Centre and National Crime Record Bureau (NRCB). Bihar’s failure to implement CCTNC would mean that internal security. 
  would not be able to seek and share data with other states.
 
 Sources said after initial allocation of Rs 25 crore to Bihar in 2012-2013, the Centre stopped releasing funds to the state as it failed to make any progress in implementing the project.
 
 Bihar DGP P K Thakur said the state government has requested the Centre to extend the deadline for implementation of the project by one more year. “A request was sent to the Centre a few days back,” Thakur added.
 
 The failure has also resulted in non-implementation of integrated criminal justice system (ICJS) in the state, under which e-courts, e-prisons, forensic science laboratories and jails would be integrated.
 
