SURAT: Surat again figures in the list of top five cleanest cities of the country for the year 2016, jumping from sixth to fourth place in Swachhata Sarvesksan conducted by the ministry of urban development, the results of which were announced on Thursday. 

 This survey by Quality Council of India ranked 73 cities on the basis of sanitation, cleanliness and hygiene and judged Vadodara at 10th, Ahmedabad 14th, Rajkot 18th, Gandhinagar 20th and Navsari at 25th place. Navsari tops for a city with population of less than two lakh in the western region. 
 
 Indore in Madhya Pradesh and Bhopal also from the same state occupy the first two spots in this survey whereas Vishakhapatnam in Andhra Pradesh stands at third place. Surat is the only city from Western India to figure in top five cities with Mysuru (Mysore) of Karnataka getting the fifth rank. When it comes to cities above population of more than five million, Surat tops and in overall citizen feedback, it is second. 
 
 The movement to clean up Surat began after it was struck by plague in 1994. S R Rao, who was the then municipal commissioner, started systematic cleaning up of the city. He introduced a number of innovative steps to keep the city clean and they are yielding good results for Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) even today. 
 
 “We started night brushing and cleaning of roads in 1995-96 and also started pay and use community toilets in the city. The Vector-Borne Disease Control Department (VBDC) which was started in 1991-92 was made more effective, and health and hygiene of the people given priority along with self-demolition of illegal constructions,” said Dr Hemant Desai, deputy commissioner of health, SMC.
 
 Surat used to be regularly ravaged by a flooded Tapi every two years after 1994 till 2006. 
 
 The floods in 2006 had submerged nearly 95 per cent of city areas but Surat got back on its feet in a short time to the disbelief of the world. For the last 20-odd years, the city has been working to become an epitome of cleanliness. It was an aberration when in 2014 Surat was judged at 64th position. 
 
 Municipal commissioner M Thennarasan told TOI, “Now, our aim is to make Surat a zero-waste city. We would concentrate on converting solid waste into energy and emphasize on pay and use public toilets. Our achievement has been made possible by active support of citizens and hard work of SMC team.” 
 
