NEW DELHI: While the civic agencies battle with the city’s mounting garbage and overflowing landfill sites, in the middle of the thickly populated  , a family hardly generates any  . 

 “All it took was a visit to a friend who was using the waste to make ‘black gold’,” said  , a housewife at Pushpanjali, while holding the rich compost that she has prepared from last month’s garbage. “Most of our waste is now used in the kitchen garden.”
 
 From June 2016, Dev started using two bins — one for wet organic waste and another for dry waste. “There are some tricky things like wet milk pouches that need to be washed and kept between newspaper sheets to let them dry,” she added.
 
 Maids had to be taught about the change by working together for the first few weeks, children had to be led by example while adults had to be reminded. “It takes some effort and diligent supervision in the first month but gradually it becomes a habit for everybody. Once in a while if anybody forgets, pick up the garbage and segregate it yourself. Keep reminding.” 
 
 Out of the family’s waste, 70-80% is kitchen and horticulture waste, 20-30% consists of dry plastic, wrappings and boxes while 2-3% is hazardous waste like sanitary napkins. “Zero waste is a myth but we can immensely reduce the share of waste we send to landfill sites,” said Dev. 
 
 A khamba or household composter has helped the family in minimising its waste output. While wet waste is turned into compost over four-five weeks, plastic and newspapers are taken away by waste collectors from Chintan, an NGO. “Almost nothing else remains,” Dev said. 
 
 E-waste — batteries, tubelights and bulbs — is collected at the community level in a cardboard box kept at the community centre as it is not generated in bulk amount. “For sanitary napkins, the ideal practice is to wrap them in newspapers and marked with a red circle so that the people dealing with waste don’t touch it.” 
 
 “There is no smell at all. Smell comes only when the mixture starts rotting. If you just use dry waste (husk) and churn it, you will hardly realise that there is a pile of garbage stored at a corner,” she explained. For a family of six, Dev is using a Rs 2,800 variant of three pots but khambas are easily available in various sizes and materials. 
 
 The children have now become self-appointed ambassadors of the little project. A few days ago, Aryaman (10) was worried about where to throw off the stem of an apple and brought it back. “Avni now refuses to take polybags while buying ice-creams,” Dev said. “They are in fact more excited about a new thing happening in the house.” 
 
 Kamlesh, the maid who has come from Chhattisgarh, neatly collects all kitchen waste after lunch, pours it in the topmost pot of Khamba, adds a layer of coconut husk and churns all. “In our village, we dig up a pit to dump kitchen waste. By monsoon, the manure is ready for the field. In a city, people don’t have space for pits, so khamba seems good,” she chuckled.
 
 Harmful detergents and floor cleaners are also a no-go zone now. Dev makes concoction from orange peels and jaggery to clean floor and use vinegar with baking soda to clean toilet pots. “All these finely drafted laws will be of no use if we don’t mend our ways,” reminded Dev. 
 
