JAISALMER: The couple in the triple   case has reached an ‘out of court settlement’ in Jaisalmer following the intervention of Rajasthan Women’s Commission (RWC) on Thursday even as doubts remain if the same is valid under Muslim law.

 The commission counselled the couple and persuaded the husband to withdraw the divorce ‘legally’ in writing while the wife withdrew her complaint lodged at the   against her in-laws, alleging harassment.
 
 Following the settlement, RWC Jaisalmer chairperson   said that it was probably the first time in the state that a triple talaq was being ‘nullified legally’.
 
 But Muslim law experts said that one cannot ‘nullify’ a talaq in writing after it has been uttered, posing a new legal dilemma for the couple and the community.
 
 On Thursday, RWC chairperson Suman Sharma and senior advocate Suman Porwal gave directions to RWC Jaisalmer chairperson Purohit and Mahila Police Station officer Jetha Ram to give counselling to Gafar, a resident of Jodhpur, who had divorced his wife   by uttering talaq thrice over the phone two days ago.
 
 Gafar was counselled and persuaded by officials to withdraw the divorce legally in writing and take back his wife and child. Both parties settled the issue amicably and the victim’s wife Nagina withdrew the dowry case lodged against the in-laws.
 
 But experts of Muslim law said that Gafar cannot ‘nullify’ the divorce after saying talaq over the phone. They said that either Gafar should marry the same woman again or get the divorce annulled within six months through the court.
 
 CWC Jaisalmer chairperson Purohit said that both parties were called to the Mahila Police Station and that Gafar confessed that he had uttered the triple talaq in anger over the phone. He said he really didn’t have any intention to divorce his wife. He then proceeded to nullify the divorce ‘legally’.
 
 Purohit said that Gafar had promised in writing that he would not beat his wife and take her and the daughter back with him to Jodhpur. He has also written that the talaq was his mistake, which he committed in anger over phone, and would fulfill all his responsibilities, failing which action could be taken against him. He has also promised not to bring other women to the house.
 
 Following the settlement, Nagina was in tears. For the last one year, she has been leading an uncertain life due to dowry atrocities and was forced to live with her parents. Two days ago, her situation worsened when her husband divorced her uttering the talaq thrice. She then contacted Purohit who served a notice to the in-laws, resulting in the settlement on Thursday.
 
 But the incident has started a debate among the Muslim community. According to Muslim law experts, talaq cannot be cancelled or nullified after being uttered. Community leader Mufti Arsad Gauri said that Gafar should either marry the same woman or cancel the talaq in court within six months by giving evidence that it was done in anger.
 
