While the first fighter pilots of the Indian Air Force were inducted recently, a few pioneering women who flew choppers and transport aircraft talk about what led them to sign up, and also life beyond the IAF

 Cheryl Dutta
 
 From the age of 15, I knew I wanted to learn how to fly. My dad was a helicopter pilot in the Indian Air Force, a three-war veteran and my inspiration. I joined the NCC in 1990 and also got my private pilot licence. I was fascinated by the idea of being a helicopter pilot and, to my good luck, the IAF decided to take women helicopter pilots in 1994. We were the first batch of women helicopter pilots in the short service commission. We trained on the Chetaks and Cheetahs and were commissioned in December 1995. My course mate Simran Kamath and I were the first women helicopter crew in South Asia.
 
 One memorable incident was evacuating an army personnel from a firing range where the rocket had misfired and blown off his face and arm. We picked him up and flew him to an army hospital. He was barely alive. A few days later, he called to thank us for saving his life and wanted to let us know he had made it. I left the IAF in 2005 as ten years was the terms of service at that time. I got married while in the IAF and we have two daughters. I wasn't keen to get into commercial flying it didn’t offer the same adventure, passion and spirit of flying the IAF gave me. I started my own label of women's wear and became a fashion stylist. I’m also a certified life coach and work with companies and individuals as fashion consultant and a coach. 
 
 * Nothing is too difficult to achieve, you just have to be willing to work hard and let the universe help you get there.
 
 Ramya Rajagopalan
 
 My training in the National Cadet Corps in school made me long to get to the skies one day. And to reach that objective, I couldn’t dream of any path other than joining the Armed Forces, the IAF specifically. 
 
 Training at the Air Force Academy brought a new perspective to life. It was an eye-opener to time management and developing leadership qualities. The daily debriefing sessions in the morning were tough because of the emergency situations that instructors came up with. But now, they are pleasant memories!
 
 Every instructor always wanted to get the best out of us. They now come across as hands that moulded me into what I am. Little did I realise that the people who joined as coursemates would become lifelong friends. I’ve joined the corporate sector after leaving the IAF. Since my spouse's work demanded a lot of overseas travel and long-term stay there, I did not consider flying commercial flying.
 
 * Touch the sky with glory! 
 
 Shivani Kulkarni
 
 I always wanted to don the service uniform and since childhood, I wanted to fly, that too for the forces. So, when the IAF opened its doors for for women, I jumped at the chance. 
 
 We got trained extremely well, with latest the methodologies and without any gender bias. If you have the aptitude, you’ll get through any rigorous training you’re put through. The IAF taught me to fly those complex machines along with the subtle art of treating your aircraft as your baby. Handling any emergencies while flying and to recover the aircraft along with complete situational awareness. It also made us officers and gentlewomen and instilled a sense of camaraderie in us.
 
 I flew general aviation for five years and for the past year and a half, have been with Indigo Airlines. The IAF trains you so well that you’re always in demand, even in civil aviation for your varied experience, hard work and professionalism. You are recognised as a disciplined officer with inspiring integrity.
 
 * Only the sky is the limit. You’ll be proud of serving your nation, donning that uniform and doing exceptional service to the nation in times of need, especially during natural calamities.
 
 Renuka Chendke
 
 My father was in the Army and I always wished I could join the defence forces too. When the IAF started inducting women, it was a dream come true. Flying was an exciting prospect. The training had many challenging moments and always kept us on your toes. In the initial years, the training stages for short service commission pilots were a bit differently spaced as compared to the permanent commission cadets. Now for many years, it has been the same training schedule. There were many memorable moments and most are linked to coursemates and instructors who became an unforgettable part of my life. I particularly cherish the solo sorties in the Kiran Mk 1 trainers. It is a beautiful feeling to be out there in the open skies, just you in your aircraft.
 
 After leaving the IAF, I dabbled a bit in an odd job or two and worked on my education too. But for the most part, I’ve been a stay-at-home mom. I did not consider flying in the commercial sector because in that case I would have preferred to first continue to serve in the IAF for as long as possible.
 
 * Go for it. You serve your country with commitment. And you get a life of pride, excitement, challenges and satisfaction. 
 
 Ranjana Velu
 
 Many from my family, including my father, served in the armed forces and even as a kid I’d think of a career in the services. In school, I was in air wing of the NCC. That was preparation of what would eventually become my career. After graduating in Science from St Johns College, Agra, I qualified to join the IAF and began my training in June 1998 at the Secunderabad academy. The training was intense but very good and prepared us to handle any eventualities. Not all the girls could handle it, but again there were drop-outs among men too.
 
 Among the many memorable incidents, one stands out. On January 26, 2001, I was operating a detachment in Chandigarh. I was a very junior Flying Officer, the copilot, the captain was a very young Flight Lieutenant and the navigator was another young Flying Officer, my coursemate. We were supposed to be returning back to Jorhat, our parent base, when we were diverted to land at Delhi. Bhuj had been hit by an earthquake and the entire transport fleet of the IAF stepped up to the plate. We were the youngest crew to operate rescue operations in Bhuj and were, in fact, the second aircraft to land there. The navigator and captain deserve immense credit as there were no lights on ground, no navigation aids, no GPS, no ATC… just moonlight and some very old maps.
 
 We got to Bhuj close to midnight and brought in aid and evacuated survivors. I’ll never forget the rippling runway as we opened power to take off the first time that night; another aftershock was hitting. We flew for 36 hours without a break. IAF personnel from across the country were there... no food, no place to sleep and we slept under the aircraft wings on the cold tarmac. Sleepy, hungry, but there was immense camaraderie.
 
 After leaving the IAF in 2009 after 10 years of service, I started flying in the commercial sector and am currently with Indigo Airlines. The stint in the IAF has been good but there could be some improvements and changes in service rules so that the women are treated on a par with the men.
 
 * It's like anything worth having. I'm not telling you it's going to be easy. I'm telling you though it's going to be worth it.
 
 Curated by R Edwin Sudhir
 
 
