NEW DELHI:   chief   alleged on Saturday that the state governments of   and   are "on the side of jihadi elements that are perpetrating the violence" there.

 Bhagwat further said that 
  in India are a threat to the country's security. 
 
 The RSS chief even weighed in on 
  , saying laws shouldn't be broken towards this goal. Many Muslims, he said, have sacrificed their lives for cow protection "just as people of the Bajrang Dal" have.
 
  
  
 
 A large part of his address focussed on nationalism.
 
 "Jihadi elements are acting out their violence in Kerala and Bengal, and while people are resisting, the state governments are supporting these anti-national forces by not fulfilling their duty, they (state governments) are on their side" said Bhagwat in an address on the anniversay of the RSS's formation.
 
 The RSS chief said all efforts must be made to not risk the country's safety and sovereignty.
 
  "They ( ) were sent packing from Myanmar because they were involved in terrorism". 
 
 
 
  
 To those who support the 
  being allowed to stay in India on humanitarian grounds, Bhagwat had this to say: "We must remember that in the name of humanity we mustn't forget that our humanity is threatened".
 
 The Rohingya will be a burden on India in more ways than one, said Bhagwat.
 
 "We had not even completely solved the problem of Bangladeshi intrusion when problem of Myanmar has been heaped on us. If we let such people (Rohingya) stay here, they will not only be a burden on employment but also pose threat to our national security," said Bhagwat, adding that refigees will burden India's economy.
 
 Bhagwat made a connection between the economy and cow protection.
 
 "Rearing of cow is not a matter of religion. I know many Muslims are involved in rearing and protection of cows. For progress of small farmer, rearing of cow is a must. Protecting cow and cow-based agriculture is directed by Constitution," said the RSS chief.
 
 Bhagwat extolled other virtues of cow-protection, but added that violence is "reprehensible" in the name of cow protection. 
 
  
  
 
 "It is reprehensible that some people have been killed allegedly by gaurakshaks. In fact violence of any form is reprehensible," he said.
  
 
