VADODARA: Environment activists have issued notices to   ( ), Vadodara Urban Development Authority (VUDA) and Gujarat Pollution Control Board ( ) demanding that municipal and other   which is being dumped into the ravines of Vishwamitri river and lakes should be immediately removed.

 Through the notices, the activists have urged the corporation and the urban development authority to take steps to prevent further dumping in the river and the lakes. In two decades and more, there have been eight years when Vishwamitri river’s level at Kalaghoda bridge gauging station showed its level above 26’ – the “red signal” flood alert level. 
 
 “The floods that the city are facing are more about human follies and official negligence. Vadodara city’s terrain has less than five percent slope on average - almost flat and it is interspersed natural water bodies with many ponds that are interconnected by natural courses of ‘nalas’ and ‘kaans’ and human made ditches,” said environment activist Rohit Prajapati. 
 
 “VMC has itself filled up the ravines of the river in Vadodara with solid waste and has turned blind eyes on those who do so illicitly,” he said, adding that the construction debris from the corporation’s recent demolition work is also dumped in the ravines along the river without forethought or care. The notices state that indiscriminate dumping, dredging and construction which is going on for decades, often by local government agencies, have choked up the ravines and wetlands and blocked the natural channels which ultimately result in severe water-logging in many parts of city. 
 
 “Both municipal waste and untreated municipal sewage are routinely being dumped into the river in contravention of the Municipal Solid Wastes (Management and Handling) Rules 2000,” the notice states, urging the bodies to stop the dumping of untreated sewage, remove existing municipal waste that has been dumped and return land which is currently being used for dumping back to the river.
 
 The notice also seeks action against VMC officials under under sections 15, 16 and 17 of the Environmental (Protection) Act 1986. It states that if VMC fails to remove the waste, it should be held responsible including compensation of damages for man-made flood.
 
 
