CHENNAI: A four-member team from the   conducted an inspection in a city mall on Thursday and found that 18 of the 20 shops they visited sold aerated drinks at double the maximum retail price ( ).

 The team seized bottles from all the shops in Phoenix Market City in Velachery as evidence to show the rampant practice of dual MRPs in the city’s multiplexes. “We conducted the inspection based on a series of complaints we received,” said an official in the department, adding that in all 18 shops 600ml Pepsi bottles were being sold at Rs 50 and above, when the MRP was Rs 33. Senior officials are now poring over past orders given by consumer courts across the country to proceed against shops charging more than the MRP.
 
 “There are a lot of grey areas in the laws now,” said an official. Orders in cases filed by the department in the past against high-end hotels and multiplexes charging more than the MRP for mineral water and   have mostly gone in the latter’s favour. “They argue saying customers aren’t just charged for the water they drink, but for the ambience and other facilities that these hotels provide,” he added. 
 
 In April, a Hyderabad Consumer   ruled that cinema theatres cannot charge more than the MRP on water bottles, and asked INOX multiplex to pay up Rs 5,000 along with another Rs 1,000 to an activist. 
 
 Closer home, lawyer Sanjay Pinto, cited another case where the court ruled in the favour of a consumer who bought two cans of energy drinks from a stall in the domestic terminal in Chennai airport. While the cost of one can was Rs 75, the customer was charged Rs 150. In 2014, the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission ordered the stall owner to pay Rs 50 lakh. “Charging more than the MRP is a form of unfair trade practice defined under the Consumer Protection Act,” he said, adding that most times the retailers put their own stickers with bar codes. “And MRP already includes a margin of profit for the vendor,” he said. 
 
 Consumer affairs minister Ram Vilas Paswan has also on various occasions reiterated that those selling bottled water and cold drinks at more than their maximum retail price, including at airports, restaurants and multiplexes, could attract penalty and jail terms.
 
 Consumer activist T Sadagopan said if multiplexes and restaurants argue that customers should pay for the ambience and other facilities they provide while they drink a bottle of water or a soft drink, then they shouldn’t be adding a service charge or tax to the bill. “We clearly need a more stringent policy to check MRP pricing policy,” he said.
 
 Consumers wanting to report MRP cheating discrepancies in weights and measures of commodities can download the app launched by the state legal metrology department (TN-LMCTS).
 
