BHOPAL: Masked men suspected to be members of the ‘chaddi baniyan gang’ (a tribal community known for thefts) forced their way into a house in a village on the outskirts of the city and took hostage a family of 12 and committed a dacoity late on Tuesday. They beat up the three brothers, before locking all male members in a room.

 They also lined-up the women and stripped them of their jewelry. Accused later made way with cash and jewelry worth Rs lakh.
 
 The incident took place at village Hinnotia Alam on the border of Kolar and Misrod area past midnight. Accused fled with the moolah as one of the family members, a teenaged boy managed to escape from their clutches and raised an alarm seeking help from the villagers.
 
 Police and villagers suspect the dacoits to be members of the   gang, which is generally active in the city during this time of the year.
 
 Accused broke the almirahs and stayed in the house for close to an hour and searched every corner until they found all cash and valuables. 
 
 One of the victims sustained critical injuries in the incident and is hospitalised.
 
 When the police reached the spot after incident, they entered into an argument over registering a case in Misrod or Kolar police station. However, after the officials intervened, a case was later registered in Misrod police station.
 
 Police said Kedar, 42, Rakesh, 32, Suraj, 30 and their wives, Anita, Rekha and Dipika and their kids live in a house in between the farmland in the village. Their elderly mother, Sodhara Bai, 60, also lives with them while one of their brothers, Vijay, 36, lives with his family in the village.
 
 The three brothers Kedar, Rakesh, Suraj sustained injuries in the incident. Kedar sustained deep wounds on both his hands, besides, injuries on the body.
 
 Cops said the family owns a few acres of land and after having dinner, they were asleep in different rooms of the house. Suraj said around midnight 8 to 10 men armed with rods and sticks entered the house and first attacked Kedar and Rakesh. Later, they took all members hostage and warned their kids to keep mum. 
 
 Suraj said he got up after hearing screams of his brothers, and on rushing out of his room the accused took him also in their custody. “They beat me and my two brothers on knife point and threatened to kill us. We were shocked,” he added.
 
 The dacoits broke the gates of a room where women members tried to lock themselves. They searched three almirahs kept in different rooms and took cash and jewellery kept there.
 
 In the melee, Kedar’s teenaged son, Ankit managed to run out of the house and raised an alarm. The boy ran towards the village to the house of his uncle, Vijay, and brought him and few others with him. The dacoits on seeing the villagers approaching the house fled with the booty.
 
 As the news broke out, senior police officials rushed to the spot and reviewed the situation. A case was later registered against unidentified dacoits and teams were formed to identify and nab them.
 
