NAGPUR: Sitabuldi police have on Monday finally registered an offence in the   of 13-year-old Harsh Lalke in a corporation school at Ramdaspeth some 16 months ago. The offence of causing death due to negligence was registered against the school principal, garden department contractor who cut trees on behalf of NMC, and the wireman in-charge of   street light maintenance.

 Those booked are 65-year-old Jyoti Falke, principal of special girl’s school, which was operating in rented premises; Mohd Ubed (54), contractor of city garden department; and Ramanmanohar Jambutkar (45), wireman of NMC light department.
 
 Harsh, a student of Standard VII, was the only son of Dilip, an autorickshaw driver, and Vaishali, housewife. Harsh was playing with his friends on the corporation school ground on August 23, 2015. Since it was a Sunday, the school was closed but boys could play in the premises. Harsh raised his hands to cheer his friends and came in contact with a broken live wire, which electrocuted him. He succumbed on the spot.
 
 The over grown branches of trees in the school premise had been cut some days earlier on the instructions of contractor Ubed. During the process, one of the wires broke and fell to the ground. Since it was a working day, school principal asked wireman Jambutkar to somehow repair it. Jambutkar, who was not supposed to do the work without informing the concerned officials, repaired the wire haphazardly, which ultimately claimed Harsh’s life.
 
 Digambar, Dilip’s elder brother, who looked after all the formalities, told TOI, “This is completely unjust. If any contractor breached the norms, then principal employer, which is NMC, should be held responsible for the misdeed.” In these 16 months, Digambar, retired assistant manager of   (MECL), had approached NMC commissioner’s office many times to give him a letter but was never allowed to meet civic chief Shravan Hardikar, he said. The family also tried to get compensation but didn’t get any response from NMC.
 
 When TOI asked Hardikar about the allegations, he replied, “The work was done illegally. We had formed a committee of officials to get to the root of the cause, which concluded NMC was not responsible for the misdeed.” Hardikar, who washed his hands of the case, also refuted the family’s allegations. As of now there is no provision to give compensation to victim’s family, he added.
 
 WHAT COPS DECIDED
 
 Civic body subdivides work on contract basis. NMC norms clearly mention that ‘public safety’ is their concern, but for this safety measures should be taken by contractor himself
 
 In this case, NMC contractor had illegally done the work after being forced by the principal
 
 Hence, governing body was completely unaware about the misdeed and would not be held responsible
 
 
