KOLKATA: India’s oldest B-school is set to become a university.  , which was set up by the Calcutta   senate together with then Prime Minister  , West Bengal’s chief minister Bidhan Chandra Roy Jand Dijendra Kumar Sanyal in 1953, will begin its new journey from the 2018-2019 session.

 “This is the first business school not just in India but south-east Asia. If this becomes a management university then there are several management schools and institutes scattered all over the state which could come under its fold,” said a source in the state education department.
 
 The education department has already started drafting the bill, which is being supported by CM   as well as education minister  , an IISWBM alumnus.
 
 “Just like a man is known by the company he keeps, same way an institute is known by the alumni it produces. We have a very rich alumni association which includes names like management guru Sumantra Ghosal and industrialist Sudhir Jal-an,” said Soma Bandopadhyay, director of the institute.
 
 A management institute doesn’t receive large grants for its day-to-day operations. Once it is upgraded into a university, there will be adequate financial support from the funding bodies.
 
  At the moment, the main source of revenue for the institute is students’ fee. “Development projects like collaborating with foreign varsities, bagging coveted projects are getting stalled since IISWBM is only a private autonomous body. We are not a government-aided institute. We do get a paltry amount but that is not sufficient for expansion,” added Bandopadhyay.
 
 Once it turns into a university, the institute will join the same league as the IIMs. “Placements will get a boost. At the moment, Calcutta University grants degrees to our students since we are affiliated to them. With the status of an university this will change. We will be able to design our curriculum without seeking any approval. Publishing of results will also be prompt,” pointed out a source.
 
 The upgrade to a university was first suggested by the chef minister in early August at the inauguration of St. Xavier’s University in Rajarhat.
 
 Since joining as the director, Bandopadhyay has initiated two programs. The first one is to motivate the students through a lecture series which is being held at regular intervals. “The second one is to meet the achievers who are renowned celebrities or successful businessmen from industries,” said Bandopadhyay. She added that more such initiatives can be taken once the upgrade is completed.
 
 The Calcutta University runs its own MBA degree course. According to Bikash Bhavan sources, IISWBM will be an affiliating university. It has been given a second plot at Rajarhat to come up with a new building which will cater to its needs once it is upgraded to its new status.
 
