PATNA
  Parents of school students have taken exception to the state government’s move to keep schools open on October 2 so as to ensure the participation of children in functions against dowry and child marriage.
 
  October 2 has been a national holiday for decades, it being the birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi. However, chief minister Nitish Kumar’s ambitious drive against the two social evils is slated to be launched on the day. An official function for the purpose will be held at the  , where people will be administered an oath against child marriages and dowry.
  
  State mass education department director   told this newspaper on Tuesday evening that a letter was being sent to the DMs, asking them to ensure the opening of schools in their respective districts on   day. The DMs will also see to it that the schools organised events on their campuses to spread awareness against the two social evils.
  
  While the compliance of the directive is mandatory for government schools, private schools are expected to voluntarily do the same. “There is no harm in opening the schools... It is in the society’s interest,” Jha said in response to a TOI question.
  
  However, parents were not amused. “I shall not let my child go to school even if it is mandatory. Why is the government bothering kids for its propaganda?” asked Nisha Singh, whose 13-year-old son and nine-year-old daughter study in a DAV school and Mount Carmel respectively.
  
  Deepak Kumar, whose son studies in Don Bosco, lamented the government indulged in a similar exercise when it had to form a human chain to publicise its prohibition policy.
  
  “Several children collapsed. One child even died in an accident while going to participate in the human chain,” he said.
  
  A Samanpura resident, whose daughters study in Montessori I and III at Notre Dame, said the government should have instead called parents to take the oath that they would not take dowry while marrying off their sons and that they would not marry off their children until they became adults.
  
  “This is a political gimmick. Worse, such announcements come at the last moment when many families happen to have finalised their travel plans for holidaying,” he fumed.
