HYDERABAD: Chief Minister   was informed by   officials on Tuesday that the adverse impact of   has been minimal in Telangana. The officials clarified to him that though shortage of cash did affect revenue generation for about a fortnight, the impact was neutralised by the sharp increase in e-transactions in the state.

 In the first meeting on the annual budget here on Tuesday, the chief minister asked officials to find out the impact of demonetisation on different states and submit a report to him. He also asked them to give department-wise revenues for November and December. When finance officials pointed out that the full impact of the demonetisation would be known only by the end of February, KCR directed them to track the trend and submit a report.
 
 The CM stressed on the need for the reduction in overall expenditure by taking up reforms in spending. He directed officials to come out with a detailed report on each department including salaries, establishment costs and number of staff.
 
 “Some departments will be merged and the not very important heads in the budget will be removed to ensure complete transparency in the annual budget. He also wanted more money to be allocated to schemes that will benefit large number of people,” said an official who attended the meeting.
 
 As per the preliminary understanding, the budget will have higher allocation for irrigation, energy, welfare departments. Under schemes, old-age pensions, double bedroom house construction, fee reimbursement, farm loan waiver and free education will get more funds in the coming budget.
 
 The chief minister gave his consent for the removal of the plan and non-plan division in the budget. Henceforth, the budget will have sector-wise allocations instead of plan and non-plan categories. 
 
 The introduction of a unified budget has received the consent of the chief minister who posed several questions on the new methodology.
 
 When asked about the continuation of SC, ST sub-plan, the chief minister said he would convene a meeting with SC, ST MLAs and MLCs to take a final decision on the same. The ongoing exercise will continue for about two weeks and finance minister Etala Rajender will join in it after his return from the district tours. The CM also wanted to involve all ministers to ensure their participation the preparation of the budget.
 
 
