The recent   survey, which ranked India’s cities on the basis of cleanliness, had raised eyebrows in the State with Kerala’s cities not even featuring in the top 250. Kozhikode, ranked 254, is the highest in the State while Alappuzha came last with 380, among the 434 cities in the country that were assessed.
While many initially slammed the survey for not taking into account how clean the cities in   are compared to those in the North, a closer look at the parameters of the survey reveals that the State has indeed been found wanting. Sure, the cities could have been ranked higher, say many, but Kerala still has a long way to go if it has to feature in the top 50 clean cities of the country.
 Kochi Times analyses what could be done to better the State’s rankings in the next survey, and most importantly make the cities cleaner by finding effective long-term solutions:
 
 
 
 The survey is accurate, with regard to Kochi’s ranking. People have been made fools of till now by giving them skewed statistics of waste management.
  I took a drive around the entire city, to check the status of the garbage. What they do is, they collect garbage from different areas and heap them in certain areas within the city. The lorry comes to collect in only once in two days. The city starts stinking much before the garbage reaches the waste treatment plant in Brahmapuram. People around live in risk of diseases. Besides, the drains and canals are filled with plastic and other wastes - Perandoor canal, for example. 
 
 After 5 pm, bacterial activity increases. The drains remain open as well.
  We are behind because the local bodies are all talk and no action. If Indore won a high rank, it shows how much effort they have put behind it. Someone has to pursue this 24/7 to ensure proper disposal. It can’t be done at the snap of a finger. Awareness programmes have to go hand in hand with plans to ensure continuous disposal. You can’t blame the public because it’s up to the local self-government to implement the plans. It is not an impossible task.
 
 
 
 
 The waste issue will be resolved only if each individual is aware about the segregation of waste and its management. We need facilities to deal the bio degradable waste at the source. If you can dedicate a bucket’s space in a corner of your house, you will be able to handle waste in a better way. And the non-biodegradable waste should be segregated into milk covers, carry bags, pet bottles. These can be recycled and the corporation can always collect it on a weekly and monthly basis. Almost 90% of the waste we generate can be easily dealt with. The corporation should find a measure to manage the remaining 10% that include e-waste, tube lights, shoe soles and glass, which cannot be recycled easily.
    have already supplied plastic bins to manage the biodegradable waste at homes and have asked people to segregate the non-biodegradable waste, thereby setting a method to collect it on a weekly basis. Unfortunately, in Kochi, the wastes are only dumped at Brahmapuram plant. No measures are being taken to deal with the wastes in a scientific method.
  People could also take the initiative by contacting the scrap dealers of the area, whose numbers are listed in the Suchitwa Mission website. They collect non-biodegradable waste that has recycle value. 
 
 
 
 
 Just because we don’t see waste dumped in the nook and corner of a city, it doesn’t mean that the city is clean. Currently what is happening in Kerala is that we collect wastes from houses and dispose it in landfill. This will only give short-term relief from the waste. As long as we do not have sustainable waste management methods, this would be a looming issue, which cannot be resolved.
 
 What we need to do is manage biodegradable waste at source and have a decentralised waste management system, which is economical and eco-friendly. We have tried both techniques in 8,000 houses in Kerala which include 1,000 apartments in Kochi and it is a success.
 
  Kerala, which has a population of 3 crore, has more than 1 crore households. So, we need techniques to segregate waste, collect and decompose them through aerobic process such as the bio-trigger mechanism by spraying bio culture. Bio digester pots can be setup in gated colonies or standalone houses, and it is convenient to process biodegradable wastes into compost within 30 days. This can also be done by depositing it in three-tier terracotta pots. The compost can be used as organic fertilizer in vegetable or floral gardens. Also, the commercial establishments too need their own waste management systems which the corporation should ensure.
 
 
 
 I think there was partiality in the rankings released by Swachh Survekshan survey 2017. The cities in our State including Trivandrum is far better when compared to other cities across the country. With their claimed parameters, the survey officials have ignored our waste management initiatives including kitchen bin, aerobin, compost bin, and source-level waste management system. Though we lack waste management plants, we were successful in keeping our city clean compared to other metropolitan cities which are equipped with bigger facilities. Trivandrum boasts of decentralised waste management system, enforcing green protocol and plastic ban — none of which were considered in this evaluation.
 
 I think we failed to document these city-wide initiatives to the respective Suchitwa officials properly. We are planning to strengthen our current ‘clean city’ campaigns with public awareness and boost our waste management systems.
 
 
 
 
 Though many sanitation projects under Suchitwa Mission are available for the public interests, the Trivandrum corporation does not show any interest in utilising them. The corporation does not have a well-planned system to utilise the resources available for benefitting the society. The civic body authorities do not have a progressive mentality. Green protocol enforced during Attukal Pongala or banning on plastic bags will not make our city free from routine waste management issues or unhygienic conditions. There are no follow-up programmes carried by corporation to analyse these initiatives. Raid on plastic bags are carried only on big ventures like textile showrooms as they would pay a high amount as fine to the officials. 
 
 In our Municipality Act, it is clearly mentioned that garbage must be collected and disposed by end of every working day. But here, it is done on an irregular basis which is later dumped somewhere resulting in environmental pollution. To the councillors, the corporation has ordered to make ‘proper plans’ in their respective wards. But they have not instructed anyone about what these ‘proper plans’ should be. There should be house-to-house monitoring and awareness campaigns to fulfil the parameters essential to make and maintain our city clean. 
 
 
 
 The waste management in cities like Indore is fully mechanised. They do road sweeping, morning and evening, using machines. This is done systematically. We have a long way to go to reach that level. Waste is collected at night there. We once tried to implement waste disposal during the night but had to drop it following severe opposition from many including union leaders. In places like Bhopal, waste management has been privatised. Imagine a situation if we tried to do the same here. Even when we tried to privatise it in a small area like the Market Circle, there was huge opposition. We need a change in mindset from the part of the workers as well as the public.
 
 The tendency of the public in Kerala is to clean the area before their homes and dump it in the next plot. But they believe that waste management is completely the responsibility of the Corporation since they pay taxes.
 
 There was a section in the survey which asked people’s opinions but here very few could be bothered to take part in it. In other states, the public were very much involved and gave positive responses. Also, some of the areas they checked were the inside of railway stations, temples etc. These are not under the jurisdiction of the Corporation.
 
 Once the new Brahmapuram plant starts functioning, things will be much better. We are not denying there have been mistakes from our part but we are remedying them one by one. 
 
 
 
 
 
