PATNA: As the JD(U) and the RJD are showing no sign to relent on the issue of resignation by deputy CM Tejashwi Prasad Yadav following the   FIR and raids on him, the Grand Alliance third partner,  , on Sunday took the initiative to broker peace between the two allies. 

 The CBI raided the house of RJD chief Lalu Prasad and his associates on July 7 following an FIR lodged against him, his wife   and son Tejashwi in Delhi on July 5 in connection with the alleged land-for-railways hotels deal when Lalu was the railway minister. 
 
 Bihar Congress president and education minister Ashok Choudhary met Lalu twice on Sunday, but refused to talk to the media.
 
 However, Congress spokesperson H K Verma said Choudhary visited Lalu’s residence to invite him to the Congress-RJD legislators’ meeting scheduled later in the evening for the presidential election on Monday.
 
 But Congress sources said Choudhary, at the behest of his party boss  , was trying to broker peace between Lalu and CM  , who wants Tejashwi to come clean on the corruption charges levelled by the CBI in the FIR against him and his family. 
 
 Congress leader Awadhesh Singh said Nitish joined hands with Lalu to stop the   juggernaut in Bihar. “He was already the chief minister, but formed the Grand Alliance to stop the saffron party from entering Bihar,” Singh told TOI. “Even RJD chief has worked hard to stop the saffron party from entering Bihar. He was the one who had dared stop the L K Advani’s rath yatra. So, in such a situation, both Nitish and Lalu should sit together and solve the issue. We have seen that whoever dares challenge the BJP is being harassed. It is important to remain together or else Bihar ka bhagwakaran ho jayega (Bihar will get saffronized)”, he said.
 
 When asked about his views on Tejashwi’s resignation, Singh did not comment. But a senior Congress leader said Nitish should take the resignation of all his ministers and form a new cabinet. “In such a situation, Tejashwi will need not resign and that will help Nitish too,” he said.
 
 
