BAREILLY: With the old order in the   giving way to the Akhilesh era, leaders who have taken over the reins of the party are in a celebratory mood. A party supporter got emotional while addressing a meeting of the revamped district working committee here. The meeting was supposed to be a brain storming session for the upcoming elections. "This is nothing sort of an   for us. Most of us maintained distance from the party office, given the dictatorial attitude of the previous leadership," said  , former president of Lohia Vahini, who had come to the office after a span of two years.
 
  Cars and SUVs converged at the main gate of the party office here at  . Charged-up cadre and supporters from several regions flocked to the party office after the call of district president Subhlesh Yadav for the first meeting of the working committee after it was recently revamped following the change of guard in the party leadership.
  
  Several party workers, who could hardly conceal their excitement, expressed similar sentiments of “ghar wapsi” and ushering in the Akhilesh era. Party leader Arvind Yadav said, “After a fallout with the then district president Veerpal Singh Yadav, I had not come to the party office for the last three years. The enthusiasm of the party workers under the current leadership is drawing all the dedicated workers from every nook and cranny."
  
  TOI also met Bishen Maurya, former city president of Lohia Vahini who had come to the party office after a yawning gap of 12 years. Another party supporter, Dileep Yadav, stepped into the premises of the party office after six years. 
  
  For many supporters, their deeply-held grudges were against just one person, former district president and party veteran Veerpal, who held the top post in the region for more than two decades and was often criticised for restricting the reins of the party to a handful of his loyalists and keeping a dictatorial hold over the SP’s affairs in the region.
  
  "His coterie of loyalists, out of vested interests, ensured that the chasm between the two camps was ever deepening," said another supporter. 
  
  Veerpal, a staunch Mulayam loyalist, was finally taken down by his rivals after Akhilesh took over the party leadership. Veerpal's hold in the district had been almost invincible till all his rivals ganged up against him. In the past, Veerpal had easily ducked attacks of his rivals, but the sustained campaign by Akhilesh loyalists this time saw the end of his era.
