PATNA: With most university vice-chancellors (VC) and pro-vice-chancellors having completed their three-year term in the state, the Raj Bhavan has reportedly speeded up the process of appointment of new full-time incumbents. The universities concerned have already been placed under caretaker VCs for the time period.

 At least 500 academics from Bihar and outside have applied for the posts of VCs and   of nine universities, including Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar Bihar University (BRABU), Kameshwar Singh Darbhanga Sanskrit University (KSDSU), Lalit Narayan Mithila University (LNMU),   (MU), Patna University (PU), Tilka Manjhi Bhagalpur University (TMBU), Bhupendra Narayan Mandal University (BNMU), Nalanda Open University (NOU) and Maulana Mazharul Haque Arabic and Persian University (MMHAPU), in response to the ad issued by the chancellor’s secretariat in October last year. Applications have also been invited for the post of pro-VCs of Veer Kunwar Singh University (VKSU) and   (JPU). The last date for online submission of applications was November 5. Subsequently, separate search committees were constituted for each university by the chancellor as per the guidelines of the University Grants Commission.
 
 Sources said the applications for the posts of VC and pro-VC of BRABU and those for the post of VKSU and JPU’s pro-VC have already been screened by the respective search committees. The shortlisted candidates have reportedly been called for interaction with the search committees at Raj Bhavan on February 11 and 12. 
 
 A team of Raj Bhavan officials left for New Delhi on Sunday with the applications and other supporting documents of candidates for screening by the search committees of LNMU, TMBU and BNMU. After screening of applications by the search committee members, the shortlisted candidates will be called for interaction at Raj Bhavan.
 
 The search committees for three universities — NOU, KSDSU and MMHAPU — are being reconstituted with new nominees of the state government. At least two nominees recommended by the state government declined the offer as they happen to be applicants for the post of VC. The government nominee for KSDSU selection committee also could not be located.
 
 In all probability, the appointment of new VCs and pro-VCs would be finalized after Holi, said sources. 
 
