NEW DELHI:   on Tuesday accused   of colluding with Paytm to promote the e-wallet company in the garb of demonetisation. The party claimed that the company had sponsored a sabha organised by BJP in Inderpuri JJ colony on Monday where senior BJP members promoted it on stage.

 “Since 2014, we have seen a wave of crony capitalism in the country. First, private companies were providing aircraft for BJP’s political campaigns and now BJP is campaigning for them. In the past few days, we have seen this for companies like Jio or Paytm where PM   has been appearing in their advertisements. If this was all, maybe we would not have reacted, but now BJP’s sabhas are being sponsored by Paytm. Not only that, BJP members were also promoting Paytm on stage. We would like to know the connection between the two,” said AAP spokesperson Richa Pandey Mishra.
 
 AAP said that at the event in the JJ Colony, organised during BJP state chief Manoj Tewari’s night stay there, senior BJP members went up on stage and encouraged people to use Paytm, talking about how to download the application and detailing how transactions took place. “Has BJP become the sales team of Paytm? After demonetisation, the company has benefited with transactions worth several crores each day. Why aren’t official government mobile wallets not being promoted? Why should a third party, a private party at that, benefit from the people’s cash?” Mishra asked.
 
 Referring to the stake of Chinese company Alibaba in Paytm, AAP said the connection between BJP and a Chinese company was dangerous for India’s security and autonomy. Mishra said: “A Chinese company is the largest partner in Paytm. Is BJP being run by Chinese companies? What is the deal between BJP and Paytm? Modi has met Jack Ma, the chairman of Alibaba, on some occasions and he should tell the country why these meetings took place. Has BJP taken money from Paytm?”
 
 Rubbishing AAP’s claim, R P Singh, BJP’s national general secretary, said: “It is all nonsense. Paytm did not sponsor the event. The main presentation was on the government’s BHIM app. Paytm was called to make a small presentation on how to use e-wallets since it is very popular.”
 
 
