MUMBAI: A   employee became the latest victim of banking   when Rs 5 lakh was transferred from his salary account on July 25. 

 Adil Shaikh (32), an Andheri resident, did not receive any transaction alert as the fraudster cancelled his registered mobile number and reactivated it with a new SIM card to hack into his   account. The sum was transferred using real-time gross settlement (RTGS). The victim suspects the involvement of a banker, who could have leaked his details.
 
 Shaikh learnt about the fraud only when a cheque for Rs 3 lakh issued to his uncle, Babar Mohammed, bounced on July 27. There was Rs 8.5 lakh balance in his account till July 25. Shaikh said in his complaint, “I issued two cheques of the value of Rs 3 lakh each. One was issued in my mother’s name, while the other was my uncle. While the cheque issued to my mother got cleared, the other one bounced. I learnt about the fund transfer when I visited the bank. I never received any alert. The bank was unable to explain how it occurred.”
 
 Shaikh’s uncle, Mohammed, said he had deposited Rs 3 lakh in his (victim’s) account a year back, after he showed interest in visiting   for a job. “Apart from the money I gave my nephew, he had saved some from his salary. His mother too deposited Rs 3 lakh. While the balance Rs 2.5 lakh was his savings of the last few years, which he could use for his marriage. When his visa application was rejected, he decided to return the money taken from his mother and me. The bank only said the money was transferred to a account opened in the name of Varun Punjabi at the Bandra (W) branch,” Mohammed told TOI.
 
 The private bank’s spokesperson said there was a multi-layer security breach. The fraudster had all details, right from the net-banking username and password to the pin, OTP and final grid numbers used to complete transactions. An internal probe has been initiated.
 
 D N Nagar police have sought transaction details from the private bank and also told it to alert the nationalized bank to freeze the account to which the money was transferred. Police are getting details of the account holder to which the money was transferred on July 25. A case was filed under Indian Penal Code section 379 and under sections 66 (C) (identity theft) and 66 (D) (cheating by personation by using computer resource) of the IT Act.
 
