CHENNAI: Not just mothers but fathers, too, of   are entitled to a  , the   has ruled, rapping a   finding that a mother alone was eligible to receive the payment.

 “In fact, the finding that the   is not entitled to compensation should have been more hurting than the death [of his son] itself,“ Justice S Vimala said in a judgment recently.
 
 “A father, who [suffers] on account of the loss of his son in terms of loss of love and affection, loss of support, loss of money and loss to estate, is also entitled to compensation along with the mother,“ the judge said, adding that it was the duty of the court to correct the legal position because it is likely to affect potential future claims of fathers.
 
 Elaborating the “special and specific role of the fat her in developing the offspring“, Justice Vimala said: “It is said a father holds the child's hand for a while, and holds his own heart forever as a provider, protector, professor, playmate and partner. In case of death of a son, can compensation be declined to the father just because the father is not shown as a legal heir in the legal heir certificate?“ The case relates to the death 30-year-old Dhamodaran in a road accident on October 24, 2008. He was owner of Sudharson Solar Systems in Salem and was adjudged to be earning `3,000 a month, as he had no income tax returns for his actual earnings.
 
 Though the parents filed a claim petition for `7 lakh as compensation, the tribunal awarded them only `1 lakh, pointing out that Dhamodaran was riding a motorbike that belonged to another person.
 
 The insurance company filed the present appeal stating that insurance cover is available only to the original vehicle owner and so he could not be awarded any compensation.
 
 While confirming the tribunal's orders, Justice Vimala found fault with the tribunal's finding that the mother alone was entitled to compensation and not the father. It is unfortunate, said the judge, adding that though the issue of a father's rights was not raised before the court, public record could not be allowed to carry an incorrect proposition.
 
