GURUGRAM: A group of RWAs from  ,  , Nirvana and   are planning a protest this coming weekend. The protest, named ‘No roads no votes’, is to drive home the point that residents will not vote in the upcoming MCG elections unless roads in their areas are repaired.

 All these areas have been developed by   Limited, but with the developer washing its hands off from the responsibility of maintaining and developing infrastructure in these area, residents are stuck. They have been communicating with government authorities for the past couple of years, but every time, any progress is delayed because of “technicalities”.
 
 “The developer does not intend to build these roads. The government says unless these areas are taken over for maintenance, they can’t develop the roads either. Earlier, they had said they would develop roads with or without them taking over, but then they went back on their word,” said Naresh Bhasin, RWA member, Nirvana Country.
 
 He asked, “If the corporation can collect property taxes, why can’t it build roads?” Residents have complained that the main   connecting South City 2 and Nirvana Country needs immediate  , and that internal roads are in equally bad shape.
 
 “We understand the government’s hands are bound, as these areas are not yet under their jurisdiction, but how do they manage to build roads overnight, even in such areas, when a politician is visiting. We as citizens are exercising our right not to vote. They should not expect our votes this time,” said Nilesh Tandon, RWA president, Fresco Apartments.
 
 He added the last time BJP came asking for votes, they assured them of development. But nothing has happened in the last three years. Hence, not voting would be their way of expressing concern. Residents from South City 2 are also joining the protest, though their situation is a little different, as the society is on verge of being taken over by MCG.
 
 “We’re aggrieved by the condition of roads and will hence join the protest, but we’re also in talks with the government. We’re hopeful road repair work will begin soon in our area, once MCG takes over,” said Neeraj Yadav, president, South City 2 RWA.
 
 The detailed project report for South City 2 is expected to be submitted by July 20. This is not the first time residents are threatening   of MCG   because of infrastructure woes. Several such campaigns have been held in Ward Number 5 and Sushant Lok 1 earlier.
 
 
