MANGALURU: A malicious campaign on   against   minister U T Khader advising Hindus not to invite him for their   has left the minister unfazed.

  Khader had invited the ire of the Hindutva brigade after he equated those who called for a voluntary hartal, opposing Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan's visit to Mangaluru recently, to his footwear. The message being circulated on WhatsApp appeals to Hindus not to invite Khader for functions and festivals. The miscreants have also threatened to stop Khader if he attempts to visit temples.
 
 “A kind request to all Hindu fraternity that hereafter, you should not invite U T Khader for any programmes of Hindus,” reads the message. Khader is aware of the message, which refers to him as an anti-Hindu chappal minister.’
 
 Khader has made it a routine to visit Hindu temples during festivals like brahmakalashotsava, jathre and religious meets in temples in the region. When contacted, Khader expressed his anguish, saying it was a conspiracy hatched by outsiders, who are not able to digest his good relations with the Hindus in his constituency. “All Hindu and Muslim brothers in my constituency know me very well. They consider me as a member of their family. I have doled out funds for religious activities of both communities without any bias. I’m not bothered about the message and I’m not going to file a complaint. Earlier too a hate campaign was launched against me. If they have some agenda, I’m open to talks with them,” said an emotional Khader.
 
 Was he concerned about his safety? Khader said he recently visited a religious programme at Chembugudde at 3am travelling all alone in his private car and did not perceive any kind of threat. 
 
 “No one in my constituency will oppose me on the basis of my religion because they have the freedom to talk to me in case I have done something wrong. All Hindus in my constituency are with me and I have confidence in them. Those miscreants, who could not digest this fact, are behind this hate campaign. No one is above God,” Khader said.
 
