KOCHI: There is a dip in the number of people registering for online taxis this year.

 The regional transport office (RTO) recorded a sharp decline in the number of cabs being registered this year with an average of 56 new cabs per month in 2017 when compared to 82 cabs per month last year.
 
 Ernakulam regional transport officer Reji P   said that most of these commercial motor cabs have been registered at the RTO for the purpose of the online taxi service. Last year, the RTO witnessed a huge jump in the number of vehicles, with 983 cabs registering as motor cabs. While the number of cabs registering for motor cabs service was only 688 in 2015 and was 664 in 2014.
 
 Navas  , joint se cretary of the  , said that the main reason for the hike in the number of cabs last year was that people "perceived" the online taxi industry to be a profitable venture.
 
 "First half of last year, there were lots of added benefits for being an online taxi driver with the incentives that were being offered if we met a certain target. But later that year, the incentives were reduced and it became hard for us to meet ends financially," said Navas.
 
 This year, as of September, 500 new cabs have been registered with Ernakulam RTO.
 
 Varghese said that one of the reasons why the registration has been so few this year is because the market is alrea dy saturated with a significant number of people venturing into the taxi industry last year.
 
 Another reason he suggested for the slump in the registration of new cabs this year was that since August all new registrations would have to pay road tax for next 15 years.
 
 "Previous year's budget suggested a 15-year road tax when a new car was being purchased but it was stayed by the high court. This stay was vacated in April. So many people are now buying secondhand cars to bypass this," said Varghese, who suggested several online taxi drivers are also using cabs registered in different RTO offices in the state.
 
 "The reason why so many people are not jumping into online cab industry, investing huge sums of money and buying a new car is because they know that it is not a profitable venture due to all the media reports. Back then, all of us were not aware of it," said Navas.
 
