NASHIK: Marathi literary summits organized on a tehsil, region or state level will now be taken care of financially by the  

 The state government has invited applications for the same from groups and NGOs who have organized tehsil, region or state-level Marathi literary summits in the last financial year. In a notification issued by the state government, it said that the organisers can apply in the prescribed format by May 31. 
 
 The only eligibility condition for this   is that the literary summit must focus on people and not on mainstream issues.
 
 The state government has been financing the annual All India   (Akhil Bharatiya Marathi  ) organized by Marathi Sahitya Mahamandal. The financial support to small literary summits is being considered as a welcome step in the literary scenario though. 
 
 Annually, the Nashik district hosts around 30 small-level and issue-based Marathi literary summits which require financial aid. “In the last financial year, Nashik hosted Shikshak Sahitya Sammelan (Teachers’ Literary Summit) in January, Savarkar Sahitya Sammelan in February, North Maharashtra Literary Summit in March, ABVP’s Pratibha Sangam literary summit in September, Dalit Adivasi Literary summit in December and Yuva Sahitya Sammelan,” said S K Kapadnis, president of Sahityayan, a group famous for organizing literary summits in Satana for the last 20 years. 
 
 He added, “Small literary summits usually cover issues ignored at the national summit. Special summits for youths, Dalits, women, teachers, farmers and kids should benefit from the government’s new decision.”
 
 Some are not happy with the tedious process of application submission though. “The government is going online for most of the works but the application process is completely offline. Even the model form in not there on the website,” said Chetan Gangurde of Lok Kala Sanskrutik Mandal, Nashik. 
 
 Currently, the application forms are available at the Marathi Sahitya Sanskruti Mandal office in Prabhadevi, Mumbai and are to be manually submitted by May 31.
 
 A Maharashtra Sahitya Sanskruti Mandal official said that they are trying to make process online but are facing some limitations. “We need to scrutinize the application forms before allotting the reimbursement of the summits organized during 2016-17, for which we have to depend on papers. Once sanctioned, the amount will be transferred to the bank account of the organizing group through NRGS or ECS,” the official said.
 
 
