LUCKNOW: Though online process to appoint centres for exams has begun, 70% schools in Lucknow affiliated to the   have not uploaded basic details required. Issuing a notice on Wednesday, district inspector of schools   asked them to upload the data latest by May 20. There are 750 schools recognised by the board in Lucknow. 

 The board has for the first time initiated an online process to fix examination centres to end the nexus between exam mafia, education officers, and senior officials. In the manual process, exam mafia, who are mostly managers of private (self-finance) colleges in connivance with education officials used to get the examination centre status for their schools where they run copying rackets and then deploy their own teachers or ‘fake teachers’ by hook or crook as invigilators, who instead of checking unfair means, abet copying. These mafias ensure ‘sure success’ to students by charging a high ‘fee’. From running fake institutions to mass copying on contract, the exam mafia plays an extensive role in the racket.
 
 To curb the menace of cheating,   officials decided to go online for fixing the exam entres. For transparency, schools were asked to upload basic details like type of school—government, government-aided or self-finance, whether the school is situated in urban or rural area and size and number of classrooms available to conduct the exam. The schools are also supposed to provide details of whether there is a gate at the main entrance, boundary wall, uninterrupted power supply, generator facility which can run throughout the exam period (applicable in case there is acute power shortage), CCTV cameras, drinking water and toilet facility and a computer system with two operators who can upload relevant information during the exam period. 
 
 Besides, the board has sought information on whether the schools have an iron almirah with lock to store question papers and answer copies, fire extinguisher, and whether the road leading to the school is connected to the main arterial road which is accessible by the officials who can anytime pay surprise inspection to ensure copying-free environment. 
 
