PUNE: What is Puja without food, fun and marathon adda (a form of intellectual exchange among members)? For Bengali’s down the ages, adda has not been just idle banter but timeless passion — a fountain head of Bengali creativity and intellectual enrichment.

 From mountain to molehill to next-door neighbour, anything can be a topic of adda and Bengalis can spend hours at it. However, with popularity of social media and less time at the disposal of most people, this peculiar Bengali institution, involving agenda-less discussion, has received a beating. But help is at hand. Amantran Durga Puja, an association based on B T Kawade Road, has set up a special pavilion called “adda” to enable elderly people relieve their adda memories and teach younger generation that idle chatter can take place beyond social media groups.
 
 “We wanted to do something different this year that is why we set up adda. With the introduction of social media, intimacy between people is fast disappearing. When many people sit together to talk, ideas flow and it also helps a person learn how to conduct in public,” said Prabal Bose, president of Aamantran.
 
 For Sharmistha Mondol, adda is nostalgia. Having grown up in Kolkata, the 26-year-old IT professional feels that adda has been an integral part of not just Durga Puja but all other social gatherings. “Being far away from home, the word does bring a sense of nostalgia to me,” she said. Adda can involve any number of people of any age group. 
 
 “There is canteen adda which involves talking about economics, future, college crushes and gym. Then there is colony friends’ adda where the topic of discussion could be garbage problem, street dogs and neighbour’s conduct. Then there is neighbourhood aunty’s adda involving kids, school, tuition, marks, saris, cosmetics, salon, husband and mother-in-law. Uncle’s adda typically revolves around politics, Mamata Banerjee, Modi’s new reforms, East Bengal, Mohun Bagan and Sourav Ganguly,” she added. 
 
 Addas are age and gender neutral. Brushing aside the misconception that women indulge more in addas, Debarati Basu, member, Bengalee Association said, “Women deviate from the topic and start talking about saris and jewellery but men stick to the same topic.”
 
