PATNA: Lalit Narain Mithila University’s pro-VC   and Banaras Hindu University’s Prof Harikesh Singh will be the new VCs of   (VKSU)-Ara and J P University (JPU)-Chhapra, respectively.
 
  The appointments for three-year term were made on Monday by state governor Ram Nath Kovind, who is also the chancellor of state universities, after consultation with the state government on two panels of names for the two universities. The names were recommended by duly-constituted search committees. The chancellor also had an interaction with the candidates figuring on the panels.
  
  The posts of VKSU and JPU VCs have been lying vacant for more than a year following the unceremonious removal of the then incumbents, Azhar Hussain and Dwijendra Prasad Gupta. While the appointment of Hussain of VKSU was quashed by the Patna high court on December 19, 2015 on a PIL filed by retired teacher Ram Tawakya Singh, Gupta of JPU was sacked by the chancellor on December 3, 2015 on charges of financial and administrative irregularities.
  
  The process of appointment of these two VCs was started by the chancellor’s secretariat in June last year with an advertisement seeking applications from eligible candidates. At least 100 applications were received by June 24, the last date for submission of applications.
  
  The chancellor then constituted a search committee each for the two universities. The search committees for VKSU and JPU interacted with the shortlisted applicants on November 26 and December 7 respectively and submitted panels containing five names each to the chancellor.
  
  On January 9, chief minister   and education minister Ashok Kumar Chauudhary held discussions with the governor on the issue of appointment of VCs and reportedly agreed on certain names on the panels.
  
  Departing from the convention of making such an appointment just after consultations with the state government, the chancellor this time chose to interact with the candidates on January 19 and 20 with a view to assessing their personality. The notification regarding the appointments was finally issued by the chancellor’s secretariat on Monday.
