NEW DELHI: Inability to recover deleted data from some of the   given by various medical boards have left   Police clueless about the cause of  . Cops have admitted this in a status report prepared in response to orders of the Delhi high court.

 For the first time, police have given details of those of aspects of the investigation, in which they are still groping in dark. “Since the data from some of the mobile phones seized during the investigation has been ascertained to be ‘deleted’ and the forensic labs have shown inability to recover/retrieve the same, approvals for sending these devices to their manufacturers abroad for chip-level retrieval are being obtained from competent authorities in government of India,” the report said.
 
 It also reveals that police took help from the FBI for not just autopsy and medical opinion but also to retrieve data from a host of mobile phones and social media accounts. The report says the police also probed the IPL angle in Sunanda’s death for which they “conducted separate, detailed inquiry on the issue of IPL controversy and its findings have been forwarded to the Enforcement Directorate”.
 
 Meanwhile, according to the report, Sunanda’s son, Shiv Menon, who has now moved HC, wrote to the police chief seeking setting up of an independent medical board. In response, the director general of health services formed a fresh board of experts, which ruled out the possibility of some of the causes of death suspected by the AIIMS board and FBI.
 
 Faced with several reports containing multiple medical opinions from AIIMS autopsy board, FBI, FSL and CFSL (two government labs), police have now sought clarifications from the DGHS medical board to zero in on the most probable cause of death.
 
 “On 22/06/2016, the DGHS board gave its opinion and ruled out the possibility of either lidocaine or insulin being the cause of death. However, no definite opinion was given about the cause of death. No opinion regarding alprazolam as the cause of death was given in the absence of any mention of the quantitative levels of the drug in the FBI reports,” the police status report added.
 
 It mentions that police examined a total of 97 people, including Sunanda’s husband Shashi Tharoor, his personal staff, friends and Sunanda’s personal staff. Police also tried to retrieve data from six Blackberry phones, nine email accounts, four Twitter and Facebook accounts, for which they again approached FBI. However, the US agency was able to only furnish ‘meta data’ relating to these accounts and phones without giving actual content. 
 
 
