WELLINGTON (New Zealand): New Zealand was 91-2 at tea Monday on the final day of the first cricket Test against Bangladesh, chasing 217 to complete a remarkable come-from-behind victory and take the lead in the two-match series.

 Captain   was 33 not out while Ross Taylor was on 17 and New Zealand had 38 more overs to reach its winning target.
 
 New Zealand found itself in the unexpected position of being able to win the Test after Bangladesh had been in control since it built a commanding first innings of 595-8 declared. It then dismissed New Zealand for 539 on the fourth day to take a first innings lead of 56 runs before a batting collapse handed the momentum to New Zealand.
 
 Bangladesh lost three wickets in the last 30 minutes of the fourth day to go to stumps at 66-3 then lost two more early on Monday.
 
 Bangladesh was eventually all out for 160 after a drama-charged innings.
 
 Captain   was struck on the head by a bouncer from   when he was 13 and retired hurt. He knelt, then collapsed near the pitch and after extended treatment from paramedics and team medical staff was taken by ambulance to Wellington Hospital.
 
 A team spokesman later reported Mushfiqur was alert and responding to questions. He told teammates he was feeling better and asked his family in Bangladesh be informed he was well.
 
 Mushfiqur had already been batting under a considerable burden. He had broken a finger during his innings of 159 in the Bangladesh first innings and had been unable to keep wicket during New Zealand's reply.
 
 But as he saw his team stumble on Monday, Mushfiqur came to the wicket at No. 8 in the order and defied a barrage of short-pitched bowling from the New Zealand pace attack for 80 minutes before ducking into a low bouncer from Southee. After losing sight of the ball he turned his head and was struck firmly in the back of the helmet.
 
 Bangladesh had already had one batsman taken to hospital by ambulance during its second innings. Opener   made the short journey from the Basin Reserve to Wellington Hospital _ about 100 meters away _ on Sunday after injuring his leg while batting.
 
 Imrul had been stretchered from the field in considerable pain and was thought unlikely to take any further part in the match but he added to the drama on Monday when he returned to the crease when Bangladesh's eighth wicket fell, knowing his captain wouldn't bat again.
 
 He had been 24 when he retired hurt and went on to finish 36 not out when Bangladesh's last wicket fell.
 
 New Zealand's chase seemed a moderate one on a pitch which has hardly deteriorated from the first day. But Bangladesh off-spinner Mehedi Hasan, taking the new ball as he did twice in the first innings, made a double breakthrough to leave New Zealand at 39-2.
 
 He first had Jeet Raval caught and bowled for 13, then first innings century-maker   chopped a ball onto his sumps when he was 16. At 39-2 it seemed the match might hold one last twist but Williamson and Latham were able to steer New Zealand to tea without further loss.
 
 Williamson hit fours from the last three balls before tea to bring up his half century partnership with Taylor in 33 minutes. 
 
