A   has ap­p­roached the police with a com­plaint that her  , a 40-year-old techie, regularly uses   to get in bed with her.

 The woman has told the police that they are going through a rough patch due to his multiple affairs and she tries to stay away from him. But her husband often scares her with cockroaches – putting them in her clothes – and has a fetish of sorts; he loves hearing her scream while in bed.
 
 Avinash Sharma works in a tech company on Bannerghatta Road. Sujatha is a techie too but is currently on a break. Even though the two knew each other since their college days, Avinash got married to someone else. That marriage did not last long and Avinash then tied the knot with Sujatha. The couple married 10 years back and has two children. 
 
 “He harassed me continuously; we have two kids and that was the reason I put up with it. I stayed away from him and didn’t allow him to touch me after he started having affairs. He then started using cockroaches to get me into bed,” Sujatha said in her complaint to the South-east division police.
 
 The police referred the case to Vanitha Sahayavani (women’s counselling centre) in the   after which Avinash was summoned to the centre.
 
 “He agreed that he had tortured her and used cockroaches to take get into bed with Sujatha. She has a   which Avinash used to his advantage. When she found out about his affairs and asked for a divorce, he didn’t agree to it. That is why he resorts to this; he even gets cockroaches in a box to scare Sujatha with. We are counselling them,” said senior counsellor BS Saraswathi who is handling the case.
 
 Dr MS Safiya, a city-based psychiatrist who counsels couples said: “We have to look at these issues from two perspectives. Sometimes people indulge in similar activities to help their partner get over their phobias and fear. But if this fear factor is being used as an agent against the partner with the intention of causing hurt and making them suffer, then there is a serious personality deficit with such individuals. Usually, we have seen that couples resort to extreme allegations against each other in order to deflect the blame to the partner and keep themselves away from taking responsibility for their issues.”
 
 
