NEW DELHI: India will flex its market muscle to secure better terms from   when ministers from the cartel of   exporting countries, accounting for roughly 35% of global supplies, meet this week to discuss extending the production cut deal to prop up prices.

 Oil minister   is expected to drive a hard bargain at the Opec ministerial meeting in Vienna on May 25 as the grouping finds itself on shaky ground in the face of a growing US fracking industry.
 
 “PM Narendra Modi has set India on a path of rapid and high growth. We need affordable and sustainable supply of energy to fuel this growth, to alleviate the lives of our poor. This presents a big opportunity for seller nations and we will certainly leverage our market size for better terms,” Pradhan told TOI before leaving for Vienna on Sunday.
 
 Official sources said Pradhan is packing quite a punch. For the first time, India’s oil minister will have representatives of all Indian refiners, including private sector Reliance Industries Ltd and  , lining up behind him at an Opec ministerial meet for effect.
 
 Together, these companies represent a refining capacity of 230 million tonnes a year, and are on way to ramp up capacity to 600 million tonnes over the next few years. Most of the oil processed by these refiners come from Opec.
 
 This is too big a pie for Opec to ignore. By Opec’s own admission, it is India — followed by China — that will propel global oil demand in 2017 amid a subdued outlook.
 
 Opec’s March report projected a global demand of 96.3 million barrels a day (mb/d), representing an increase of 1.26 mb/d or 1.2%. Much of this growth is expected from India, with demand rising 3.2% to 4.53 mb/d in 2017 after posting a growth of 8.2% in 2016. In contrast, China’s oil demand is estimated to grow by 0.28 mb/d, or 2.45% to 11.79 mb/d.
 
 Official sources said that with new prospects coming on stream outside Opec, India will drive home the point that it will shop elsewhere if Opec doesn’t play ball. “New Delhi is aiming to change the narrative from ‘Asian premium’ to ‘Asian discount’. It is seeking discount, longer credit period and priority loading, among other things. It is for Opec to decide whether it wants to retain its market share,” an official told TOI.
 
 
