Every time light is shed on Goa’s opaque decision-making, it becomes clearer the system is rotten to the core. Even as the state plunges dangerously further into debt, its administrators incessantly embark on harebrained, entirely unnecessary scam infrastructure projects, serving no purpose but to funnel public monies to vulturously omnipresent cabals of cronies. Projects remain delayed ad infinitum, with impunity. When things get built, they are far from what was promised, and then immediately deteriorate due to shoddy execution.  The extraordinarily expensive Miramar road is just one scandalous disgrace, where huge monies were emptied into dubious pockets, yielding an appalling and unfinished result. The latest indication of systemic failure comes from the USA justice department, which shows considerably greater interest in Indian corruption than any domestic agency. On June 21, its criminal division stated that CDM Smith (a Boston-based infrastructure services company) paid crores to bag contracts from the national highway authority of India. Besides (NHAI). CDM also paid $ 25,000 to Goan authorities to secure a water contract. The justice department wrote, “The bribes were paid through fraudulent subcontractors, who provided no actual services and understood that payments were meant solely to benefit the officials. All senior management...were aware of the bribes...and approved or participated in the misconduct.” Just as all CDM employees were aware of bribes being paid, the entire administrative machinery in Goa is fully cognisant of how the system has been perverted. When Manohar Parrikar was re-elected with a smashing mandate in 2012, he promised to eliminate corruption. Six months later, he hedged, saying “I never said there will be zero corruption, but there will be zero tolerance towards corruption. At the end of six months the corruption will be down by almost 80-90%.” But it wasn’t long before even that promise was abandoned.  The public interest bleeds in infinite ways from unchallenged, unprincipled administration. Runaway fiscal irresponsibility bloats the state debt burden, and then deficits are conveniently used as excuses to persist with deeply unpopular “revenue generators” (like casinos). The natural environment comes under existential threat, as all existing safeguards are bypassed or outright ignored. The rule of law becomes hazardously subverted. A perfect storm of moral hazard then prevails, where unscrupulousness breeds, and criminality flourishes right out in the open. This is certainly an Indian disease, but it festers as rankly in Goa as any other place in the country, despite what the gaudy human development and economic indices indicate. In a laundry list of awful ideas embraced by successive Goa administrations, by far the worst is the billion-dollar, alleged “second airport” being bulldozed through at Mopa in North Goa, despite manifold irregularities in its planning and conception. Here, it is highly illustrative to remember that the International Civil Aviation Organization of the United Nations was unequivocal in its criticism of the project, calling it “unviable” under any conditions. Since that was an inconvenient finding, the Goa administration turned to their favourite crony consultant, the notorious Louis Berger Group, which unsurprisingly produced a different analysis altogether. This is the same company which has admitted in a US court to paying nearly $US one million in bribes to ex-Goa CMs (and current MLAs) Digambar Kamat and Churchill Alemao. Even with hundreds of millions of dollars being splurged across the state, the Mopa Airport project stands out as the dominant behemoth of scam infrastructure. Every aspect of its planning and project execution reveals another public outrage, with the taint liberally spread across every party and political alignment. An emblematic example took place in 2015, when the state undersecretary (finance expenditure) Sushma Kamat warned that the “second airport” draft terms of agreement were seriously flawed. It allowed the winning concessionaire to utilize 232 acres of prime land (the total project spans 2,271 acres) for “unrestricted use for commercial development” without seeking any state approvals whatsoever. Kamat pointed out that “unrestricted land use may be used for commercial activities which may not be beneficial to the state and its people. Handing over such a land mass to a private entity who may develop it for whatever purpose may create third-party rights without adequate compensation to the state government.”  This was yet another giant red flag raised about a ridiculous, white-elephant project. Any responsible custodians of the public interest would have stopped it dead right there. But something is rotten in the state of Goa. It should be no surprise that Kamat was ignored, and Laxmikant Parsekar’s BJP-led cabinet passed the terms of agreement without a murmur. (The writer is a photographer and widely published journalist. Views are personal.)