NEW DELHI: Thanks to electronic voting machines (EVMs), exit polls are becoming the more popular appetizer to the main course that is counting day. And with the hurly burly of the two-month-long campaign ending Wednesday, all eyes are on Thursday evening’s exit polls from the five states that held Assembly elections over the past two months – Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Goa and Manipur. The assembly elections are being billed as a litmus test for PM Modi as the BJP largely banked on his popularity in its bid for power, especially in the crucial state of Uttar Pradesh where it has been out of government for 15 years. Still, how often are exit polls correct? Turns out, the accuracy of such polls is mixed. Here’s a look at some recent election results and whether they matched exit polls’ predictions. Five states held Assembly polls last year from April-May 2016. The exit polls were largely accurate about the results out of Assam (BJP) Assam, Kerala (Left Democratic Front), Puducherry and West Bengal (Trinamool).  However, exit polls in Tamil Nadu turned out to be a big fail, as almost all of them believed that the late former chief minister Jayalalithaa’s AIADMK would be thrown out thanks to anti-incumbency. They predicted a win for the DMK-Congress alliance. The Axis-My India exit poll saw the DMK-Congress alliance getting between 120 and 140 seats of the 234-member Tamil Nadu Assembly. It saw AIADMK getting 90 to 110 seats, IANS reported at the time. The News Nation TV exit poll gave 114-118 seats to the DMK-Congress alliance and 95-99 seats to the AIADMK.  Instead, come counting day, the AIADMK returned to power with a whopping 136 seats. 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 

















































 Almost all the exit polls predicted a historic victory for the BJP in Assam. The Congress party’s Tarun Gogoi had been chief minister of the state for 15 years, but the BJP had made major inroads thanks to Sarabananda Sonowal. ABP’s exit poll said the BJP would win 81 seats, while Chanakya predicted 90 seats for it. Turns out, the BJP won 86 seats in Assam which gave it a nice majority – it needed only 64 for a majority. In West Bengal, India Today had predicted a landslide victory for the Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress (TMC) with 243 seats, way beyond the 148 seats needed for majority in the state Assembly. Chanakya expected 210 seats for the Mamata Banerjee’s TMC. C-Voter gave the TNC 167 seats. When the official results came in, the TMC won 211 seats in a landslide victory. Most exit polls said the incumbent United Democratic Front (UDF) would be done away with, thanks to, well, anti-incumbency, and that the Left Democratic Front (LDF) would win, albeit with a slender majority. CVoter predicted 78 seats for the LDF, which went on to beat estimates and won 91 seats in the 140-seat Kerala Assembly.  This was an easy one for most exit pollsters who accurately predicted a win for the Congress-DMK alliance. The results of the October-November 2015 Assembly election here were hugely awaited. That’s because it was Bihar and because of the ‘grand alliance’ of Nitish Kumar’s JD(U), Lalu Yadav’s RJD and the Congress, which was to take on the BJP for a majority in the 243-seat Assembly. The ABP-Nielsen poll said the ‘grand alliance’ would get 130 seats and the BJP and allies would get 108. Times Now along with C-Voter gave 122 seats to Nitish’s ‘grand alliance’ and 111 to the BJP and allies. Come counting day the result were not nearly as close as the exit polls predicted. Nitish’s grand alliance won a landslide victory getting 178 seats. 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 

















































 The exit polls after the 2014 Lok Sabha elections were unanimous in their verdict that the NDA would get a majority or would get something very close to it. The exit polls also agreed that the BJP would get its highest tally ever — the range varying from a little over 200 to just under 300. When the actual results were announced, News24-Today's Chanakya's predictions were the closest to the final numbers. The BJP-led NDA won 334 seats while the Congress-led UPA was decimated and reduced to just 60 seats. The BJP took its tally to 282 seats, while the Congress was reduced to mere 45 seats. The News24-Today's Chanakya had predicted 340 seats for the NDA and 70 seats for the UPA. The other pollsters were correct with their overall predictions, but no were close to the exact numbers. The Times Now-ORG predicted 257 seats for NDA and 135 for UPA, while the C-Voter-India TV exit poll gave the NDA 289 seats and the UPA 101 seats.