AURANGABAD: The prices of   have fallen sharply this year due to a bumper crop. On Friday, the fruit was sold at Rs 6-7 per kg in the Jadhavwadi wholesale market as against Rs 15-18 per kg last year.

 Mohammed Yusuf Choudhary, president of the Marathwada Fruits and Vegetable Sellers Association, told TOI on Saturday that several local and outstation farmers and suppliers have been dumping huge quantities of sweet lime in the market. 
 
 “Supply has surpassed demand after local and outstation suppliers started selling the produce simultaneously,” he said. 
 
 “Ideally, we get sweet lime from Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Karnataka in third or fourth week of May. But due to a bumper crop, the suppliers have started arriving here early. Their timing has clashed with local suppliers who sell watermelon in April and May,” he said. 
 
 Choudhary added that many farmers and suppliers are suffering losses due to the falling prices of sweet lime. “Some of us (mostly wholesalers) who bought sweet lime two months in advance from the farmers have been affected the worst. Anticipating prices to surpass Rs 15 per kg, they booked the fruits in February and March, but now the prices are hovering below Rs 8 per kg,” he said. 
 
 Choudhary also said that the demand for sweet lime in major markets like Kolkata, New Delhi and parts of Rajasthan has also dropped and thus the suppliers are unable sell the fruit. Consumers have a wide range of fruits to choose from and hence the prices most of the common produce have been tumbling, he said. 
 
 Irshad Khan, a wholesaler, said all the sweet lime suppliers are bearing heavy losses this season. “Due to the low prices, the retailers prefer selling mangoes or watermelon instead of sweet lime,” he said. Ratiram, a retailer based in  , said people are buying a lot of mangoes since the fruit is reasonably priced. 
 
 Sanjay Patil, horticulturist in Fruit Research Centre Aurangabad, said, “Sweet lime yield has grown by about 60% in the current season in the region. The growth is because of satisfactory rainfall and availability of water from January to March,” he said. 
 
