HYDERABAD: Some alleged sympathisers of the Islamic State (IS), nabbed in the city and elsewhere for their vain bid to join the banned outfit, reportedly refused to salute the Indian flag or stand when the   was played on occasions like Republic Day or Independence Day when they were incarcerated. 

 Of the several IS sympathisers, a few used to openly spout that they would strive to spread the tentacles of the IS in India and establish the caliphate as they did not believe in the concept of a secular and democratic India, jail sources said.
 
  said of the over   for their suspected links to  , engineering student Abdul Basith, nephew of former   president Syed Salahuddin, and a few others were cast in a different mould. They were ideologically committed and continued to be staunch supporters of the IS despite getting caught twice by the Telangana Counter Intelligence Cell. Some officers claim Basith was always known for making fiery statements in support of the IS.
 
 "Even with jail authorities, a few IS sympathisers used to speak in a rude manner. They refused to stand along with other prisoners when the Indian flag was hoisted during Republic Day or Independence Day celebrations. They used to make flamboyant jihadi statements in support of the IS even after they were nabbed,'' the sources told TOI. 
 
 Basith and his two cousins__Maaz Hasan and Syed Omar Farooqi Hussain__obtained bail last year after the Special Investigation Team (SIT) filed a chargesheet alleging that the engineering student had links with the IS.
 
 In 2014, Basith and a few others went to West Bengal with an intention to cross over to Bangladesh and reach their final destination, Syria, and be a part of the so-called Islamic State, but were nabbed by the CI Cell sleuths in Kolkata. At that time, Basith was reportedly in touch with an online handler, who arranged money for his journey. Later, police learnt that it was one Adnan Hasan of Bhatkal in Karnataka who hand sent money from the UAE. 
 
 Basith is still active on social media and it was through it he could establish contact with his handlers in the first place.
 
 Though the three were let off after counselling, their urge to join the IS outfit did not die out completely. Basith had made a second bid to go to Syria in 2015. He and his two cousins disappeared from their homes to take a flight to Kashmir from Nagpur. Their plan was to reach Kashmir and take help of Hurriyat leaders to reach Syria. Their second bid was also foiled. The trio was arrested at the Nagpur airport. During the second attempt, they did not have any handler and acted on their own.
 
