MADURAI: Two Indian fishermen from Thanjavur have been apprehended in Sri Lanka on charges of transporting 30 illegal migrants from Myanmar. The migrants included 16 children and the Island nation’s coast guard vessel intercepted the fishing boat in Sri Lankan waters suspicious on seeing so many people, including women and children, crammed into a medium-size fibre boat. The boat has been registered in India, Arkattuthurai in Nagapattinam district.

 According to the   website, the coast guard’s patrol boat detained them for questioning and found that 30 people are from Myanmar in which seven were men, seven women and 16 children, including a 15-day-old infant and four-month-old child. Two Indian fishermen allegedly involved in human trafficking bid were arrested. The migrants were provided medical help and screening by navy’s medical team and all of them, including Indian citizens, were handed over to Kankensanthurai police for further action. The arrested were produced before Mallakam court, the website stated.
 
 Sources in Sri Lanka said the illegal migrants are Rohingya Muslims fleeing Myanmar. Sri Lankan naval agencies since February 2013 have rescued 268 illegal immigrants taking perilous voyages to reach better pastures, sometimes as far as Australian coast. Among these illegal immigrants detained by Sri Lankan naval agencies so far, 45 % are Rohingya Muslims from Myanmar.
 
 “In this case, these illegal migrants do have refugee cards issued by United Nations. After embarking on the voyage, they did not know where to go and decided to land along the Sri Lankan coast. The Indian fishermen must have received them mid-sea from other boats and agreed to drop them on the Sri Lankan shore”, said the official not willing to be named. The fishermen have been identified as Ibrahim Shaw and Gopal Velusamy from Thanjavur district.
 
 Sri Lankan media reported that Mallakam court hearing their case have remanded these migrants and Indian fishermen in judicial custody till May 2. Further investigation is being carried out by Sri Lankan authorities, as per Lankan media reports.
 
 Q branch sources in Tamil Nadu said no refugees from Myanmar landed along the state’s coast and the case appears fishy as to how fishermen from the state got involved. “As of now we have received information that a Nagapattinam-based boat has been detained along with two of our fishermen while transporting Myanmar citizens. We will get more details after thorough investigation”, a Q branch official mentioned. 
 
