FEROZEPUR: Almost two years after Punjab government declared the hide out of freedom fighter   a protected monument, the process hasn't moved even an inch due to official apathy and the historical building is still battling to get the much-needed attention.Importantly, the district administration has not come out with a detailed project report to convert the building into a protected monument so far. This indifference has not gone down well with the admirers of the freedom fighter who plan to celebrate his 110th birth anniversary on September 28. Bhagat Singh used to frequent the hideout in   with his accomplices in 1928-29. It is at the hideout where Bhagat Singh had shorn his hair to change his looks.

 The building presently is owned by religious trust `Krishna Bhakti Satsang Trust'. Trust convener   said, “Over a year ago, the district administration had approached us for an agreement, but it has not been signed. We have got a notice in February 2016 asking us not to make any alteration in the building or to sell it without the consent of the district administration. But after that we have not heard from the government."
 
 “The state government has not signed any agreement with the present owner of the twostorey house or taken it into its possession. Still two shops are doing business on the ground floor and an occupant lives on the upper storey where Bhagat Singh and his comrades used to frequent. So much so that Punjab cultural affairs minister   had assured a delegation on August 14 to properly preserve the place and had announced a sum of Rs 20 lakh for its upkeep," said Ferozepur resident Rakesh Kumar, who has worked tirelessly to declare the place as a protected monument.
 
 Ferozepur deputy commissioner Ramvir said a detailed project report is being prepared to preserve the hideout and other monuments of historical importance around Ferozepur to turn the area into a historical tourist circuit. “Soon some consultant will be hired to make a comprehensive report," he added. He confirmed that hideout has not been taken over as the payment to the owner is yet to be made by state government for acquiring it and some modalities are yet to be worked out.
 
