NEW DELHI: Concerned over increasing number of corporate houses and private institutions not paying back loans taken from banks and public bodies, the   said on Monday that the   must be sternly dealt with and strict action taken against them.

 “The increase of non-performing assets in banks is one of the offshoots of such murky deals. It is shocking that despite having means, earning profits, they are not interested in making payment. Time has come when they have to be dealt with sternly and with an iron hand so as to make them pay public dues,” a bench of Justices Arun Mishra and S Abdul Nazeer said.
 
 The apex court slammed Maharaji Educational Trust, which runs several medical colleges, dental college and hospitals, for not repaying Rs 480 crore to Housing and Urban Development Corporation Limited (HUDCO). The trust, allegedly possessing properties worth of Rs 1,200 crore, had taken a   of Rs 75 crore in 1995 but it had swelled to Rs 480 crore with interest. The trust failed to refund the amount in the last 22 years.
 
 “The Trust is a wilful defaulter and has built the property, colleges, hospitals from the money borrowed from HUDCO. It was the bounden duty of the Trust to pay back the money to HUDCO. Thus no equitable principle comes to their rescue as despite running the institutions for the last 22 years, they have not paid back the amount,” the bench said.
 
 “Once they want to run their colleges, hospitals etc built up with the help of money advanced by HUDCO, obviously they must honestly ooze out the advantage which they are deriving from the institutions.
 
 But it has become a general scenario that the persons who earn money with help of hefty loans, in spite of running institutions which have been set up by the money lent to them, they are not making payment of dues. Consequently, they will have no right to run the institutions in such a dishonest manner,” it said.
 
 The bench directed the Trust to settle scheme of repayment to HUDCO within one month and start payment of dues from June. The court also granted permission to HUDCO to sale properties of the Trust if it failed to refund the money. The court said it was necessary to safeguard the interest of HUDCO and it would not be appropriate to make HUDCO “wait till eternity” to get back the money.
 
 “We expect the Trust to make payment of the amount which has swelled up to approximately to Rs 480 crore by now and make payment otherwise they will have to face the consequences,” it said.
 
 “It is made clear that in case the trust wants to run institutions, they are bound to make payment and as they are liable to pay, they should pay in all fairness all sums which they have borrowed sans any ifs and buts. It is what is expected of them.
 
 Otherwise courts will have to step in and take action in case dues remain unpaid and bottlenecks are created by one way or the other in realisation of dues. It is not only startling but also shocking to note that a giant institution which is imparting education to about 3000 students involving manpower of about 700 personnel is finding it difficult to pay the loaned amount and is coming up with lame excuses to shirk its responsibility,” it said.
 
 
