NAGPUR:   is no longer a disease of adults. Children and elderly are equally affected by it. Prevalence of depression is as high as 15-20% of the population. In worst condition it can result in suicide. It is emerging as the second leading cause of death. But experts feel talking about it within in family, friends, society and especially with psychiatrists can do wonders. It is only in severe condition that medication was needed, they said.

 Dr Sudhir Bhave, professor and head, psychiatry department, at the   told   there was 10% chance that a person will suffer from depression at some point in life. In 2010, it was the fifth leading disease and in 2020 is expected to become the second, next only to heart disease. “A depressed person cannot perform in job or studies to the fullest and causes loss of productive days. It leads to Disability Adjusted Life years or DALYS.
 
 Psychotherapist Anupama Gadkari stated expressing the depression was key to its treatment. “People generally live in denial due to stigma and don’t consult therapists. There are two ways to treat it, the cognitive behaviour therapy and the rational emotive behaviour therapy,” she said.
 
 Dr Sushil Gawande added prevalence of depression in   was higher than men. “They are battling at both home and job fronts without any recognition. They are not involved in decision making and hence are made to feel inferior that causes depression,” he said.
 
 Dr Shreyas Magia felt people were now realizing depression was not a psychotic disease. But until the person gave vent to his feelings it was difficult to bring him out of its clutches. “Be it a break up in relationships, financial crisis, business or job stress everything needs to be discussed,” he stated.
 
 Jaya Shivalkar, child psychologist and paediatrician, said emotions gave an insight into your own being and person could analyze himself or herself better if they shared their emotions. Talking led to rational thinking and understanding other person’s perspective with an unbiased and professional attitude. “Hence talking is key to best treatment in depression,” she said.
 
 LOOK FOR THESE SIGNS OF DEPRESSION
 
 Feeling of helplessness and hopelessness
 
 Loss of interest in daily activities. Don’t care about hobbies, pastimes, social activities, or sex. Can’t enjoy feeling of joy and pleasure
 
 Loss or weight gain, a change of more than 5% of body weight in a month
 
 Sleep changes leading to either insomnia or oversleeping
 
 Feeling agitated, restless, or even violent. One becomes intolerant, short-tempered, everything and everyone irritates
 
 Loss of energy. Feeling fatigued, sluggish, and physically drained
 
 Self-loathing, feeling of worthlessness or guilt. Criticizing oneself for perceived faults and mistakes
 
 Reckless, escapist behaviour like substance abuse, compulsive gambling, reckless driving, or dangerous sports
 
 Trouble focusing, making decisions, or remembering things
 
 Unexplained aches and pains. An increase in physical complaints such as headaches, back pain, aching muscles, and stomach pain
 
 Depression in men
 
 Depressed men are less likely to acknowledge feelings of self-loathing and hopelessness. Instead, they tend to complain about fatigue, irritability, sleep problems, and loss of interest in work and hobbies. They are also more likely to experience symptoms such as anger, aggression, reckless behaviour, and substance abuse
 
 Depression in women. Women are more likely to experience symptoms such as pronounced feelings of guilt, excessive sleeping, overeating. Depression in women is also impacted by hormonal factors during menstruation, pregnancy, and menopause. Up to 1 in 7 women experience depression following childbirth, a condition known as postpartum depression
 
 Depression in teens. Irritability, anger, and agitation are often the most noticeable symptoms in depressed teens—not sadness. They may also complain of headaches, stomachaches, or other physical pains
 
 Depression in older adults. Older adults tend to complain more about the physical rather than the emotional signs and symptoms of depression: things like fatigue, unexplained aches and pains, and memory problems. They may also neglect their personal appearance and stop taking critical medications for their health
 
 HOW TALKING HELPS
 
 Helps in identifying reasons or causes
 
 Relieves the person mental burdens
 
 Seeing a doctor also helps in getting medications needed
 
 Helps in coping with distress
 
 Talking also helps in identifying masked depression
 
