JAIPUR: Slow server is one of the main reasons behind the delay in   under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act ( ), claimed the state government on Monday.

 State panchayati raj minister Rajendra Rathore listed slow server speed along with lack of personnel, labourers not connected to banking services, wrong account details provided by labourers as main reasons for delay in wage payment. Rathore was replying to the queries related to pending payments that were raised by senior   legislator Ghanshyam Tiwari during the question hour.
 
 Giving details of due payment and the payments made since 2013-14, the minister said that for the ongoing financial year (2016 to February 27, 2017), the payment that was due stood at Rs 3,083.35 core. Against that, 3,004.82 crore had been made. Rathore claimed that there was no provision to provide an interest on the due amount, which was contested by Tiwari who informed the house that a court ruling made it mandatory for interest to be paid on wages, if payment is delayed.
 
 Tiwari also contested Rathore’s reply that there was no provision for farm work in MGNREGA. “The state government in its manifesto had promised to include farm work in MGNREGA and it should now write to the centre requesting the same,” said Tiwari.
 
 Rathore informed the house that the state stood fourth in the list of states with highest amounts paid as wages to MGNREGA labourers. “Only Manipur, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana are better than us,’’ he said. He informed all that since 2013-14, the total payments which were to be made were Rs 9,512.49 crore, against which Rs 9,425 crore were paid. “Only 0.91 per cent payment has been delayed,” he said.
 
 Sharing details on MGNREGA labourers, Rathore said that the scheme had 97.13 lakh labourers with job-cards. “I admit, of these only 2.26 lakh have completed 100 days of work in a year,” he added.
 
 The minister denied allegations by   Sukhram Vishnoi that no work had been allotted under the scheme in 252 gram panchayats. “That is a baseless statement. To my knowledge, no work has been allotted only in 5 gram panchayats, that too because they are located near urban areas,” he said.
 
 In reply to another question, agriculture minister Prabhu Lal Saini said the farmers running green and poly houses will get additional grant of up to Rs 12 lakh. He said from the next financial year, the subsidy amount will be transferred to farmers’ bank accounts directly. Currently, the subsidy is given to empanelled firms which set up greenhouses for farmers.
 
 
