CHENNAI: Even as lawyers in several states are up in arms and are boycotting courts against the Law Commission of India’s report suggesting sweeping Bar Council reforms and tightening conduct rules for practising advocates, a writ petition filed in the   lays bare ills of disciplinary proceedings against lawyers already suspended.

 K Muthuramalingam, who was suspended following a lawyer-CISF personnel tiff a day after the Madras high court came under the CISF security blanket last year, has narrated how a sitting Lokayukta member from Bihar had been coopted as a disciplinary committee member in violation of all mandatory norms, and how his one-year punishment is illegally sought to be extended by misinterpretation.
 
 It all started on November 20, 2015 when a small group of lawyers protested a CISF personnel videographing the frisking of a woman advocate. It led to arguments, following which a woman CISF officer lodged a harassment complaint, and it was forwarded to the Bar Council for appropriate action.
 
 Eight lawyers, including Muthuramalingam, were placed under suspension by an interim order on November 26, 2015. About a year later, during which period the disciplinary proceedings were shifted to the Karnataka Bar Council, a committee passed final orders imposing a one-year suspension ‘from the date of the order -- that is November 20, 2016.”
 
 When Muhturamalingam, who has already suffered a one-year suspension, filed an appeal in the  , New Delhi, the latter constituted a committee headed by Justice Mihir Kumar Jha, who is a retired judge of the  .
 
 There are three anomalies in the ongoing disciplinary proceedings, according to the writ petition.
 
 One: The very constitution of the committee by the BCI is prima facie contrary to the Advocates Act and Bar Council of India rules. There is statutory prohibition or interdiction against the sitting Lokayukta member to hold the office of chairman of the disciplinary committee. Section 4 of the Bihar Lokayukta Act clearly prohibits him from practising any profession. Also, except a practising advocate, no other person can be co-opted as member of the disciplinary committee.
 
 Two: Any penal order takes into account the sentence or punishment already undergone, and it is set off against the final quantum of suspension or sentence period. In this case, since by the time final orders imposing the one-year suspension was delivered in November 2016, Muthuramalingam had already served one-year in suspension, it ought to have been set off, enabling his return to profession.
 
 Three: Besides refusing to consider the one year as suspension period already undergone, the committee refused to stay the final order.
 
 Pointing to all these infirmities, Muthuramalingam urged the court to grant an interim injunction restraining the disciplinary committee proceedings under the chairmanship of Justice Mihir Kumar Jha. 
 
 He urged the court to suspend the final order of the special disciplinary committee of the Karnataka Bar Council thereby permitting him to return to active practice.
 
 
