MUMBAI: To start the process of on-screen evaluation of exam answer sheets,   has sent codes to assessment centres. Most of the evaluation for commerce exams will start, followed by science and architecture answer papers.

 The code for TYBCom semester VI (financial accounting and auditing) has been sent to 93 cluster assessment centres and teachers need to visit the closest centre to start evaluation work.
 
 Amonth's delay after the onscreen assessment was announced will now push declaration of results for lakhs of final-year students. As per rules, the varsity has to declare results within 45 days of conducting an exam.
 
 “Clearly, the university is not going to meet the deadline of May 17,“ said a university official. “But we hope results will be out faster than what it took under the conventional method.“
 
 On-screen assessment involves scanning answer sheets and assessing scanned copies on a computer. The process, university officers said, will keep out tampering of answer sheets.
 
 After the third-party service provider was selected, vicechancellor of Mumbai university   said in a press release: “The on-screen assessment system shall bring unmatched accuracy, transparency and speed in many aspects of evaluation. As the project progresses, timelines for result declaration will reduce.“ “About 1.5 lakh answer sheets will be scanned. Overall, 250 skilled manpower, including 50 officers, will look into the process, and this will be done under   and biometric access,“ said the press release issued by the university.
 
 A university official said that 22 lakh answer sheets will have to be assessed online if all students are taken into account.All 32 pages in each answer sheet will have to be scanned as students could mistakenly leave some pages empty and write again later. Around 100-150 scanning machines will be required, said the official.
 
 As per a rough estimate made by Deshmukh, around 75,000 answer sheets will have to be evaluated per day to achieve the target. Around 25 engineering colleges having at least 100 computers will be used as centralised assessment process centres, along with 25 other centres, for the project.
 
