HYDERABAD: Four days after the heart-breaking loss to   in the final of the 2017 World Cup, India skipper   touched home turf even as she was accorded a rapturous welcome at the  , here on Friday evening. 

 But what was more heartening for the 34-year-old player was that chief minister   ended her 11-year long wait for the 'promised' house plot. As reported in these columns on Friday,   had been promised a plot way back in 2005 but the cricketer was made to run from pillar to post. All her attempts to get the house site proved futile as the successive governments didn't bother to fullfil the promise made to the cricketer.
 
 On her way home from the airport, Mithali called on the chief minister at his camp office. Chandrasekhar Rao, who has been benevolent towards sportspersons, immediately announced a cash award of Rs 1 crore and 600 square yards of land at Bjara Hills for Mithali. He also announced Rs 25 lakh for her coach RSR Murthy. “You have played wonderfully in the World Cup. We thought you will surely win the final too. Unfortunately, we lost by a slender margin. But your team performed well and the whole nation watched your performance. Even I watched the match. You have set a record by scoring the highest number of runs. You are the pride of   and Hyderabad city . The government will stand by you,“ Rao told Mithali.
 
 The CM felicitated Mithali and presented here a shawl.He also presented Murthy with a shawl and complimented him on shaping up Mithali into a fine cricketer. “It is for the first time that I have been driven to the CM's camp office from the airport. That in itself is a very happy feeling for me.He told me that he had watched the final and what was most amazing was that he knew all my world records and scores. That has given such a personal touch to his appreciation of my game,“ Mithali said on her meeting the CM.
 
 “Everyone at the camp office was eager to meet me and hear about the matches. It was a thrilling feeling to be the cynosure of so many top officials of our state. To see that my performance brings so much of joy to so many people is a humbling experience,“ she added.
 
 Earlier, Mithali was accorded a warm welcome. All the railways women cricketers, budding young players, senior cricketers and a host of Mithali's fans thronged the airport.
 
