NAGPUR: Peeved over   and  , Mahal residents staged protests at the NMC’s Gandhibagh zone office on Thursday. Protesters, mostly women, shouted slogans and handed over a memorandum highlighting their plight to the zonal official. The protest was led by newly-elected Congress corporator   

 Holding recent water bills, about 100 people claimed to have been overcharged — some got even got over Rs63,000 bill of three months — gathered outside Gandhibagh zone to share their stories and plot a strategy for escalating the protest. “The water bills are so high that to repay them either we have to borrow loans or have to mortgage mangalsutra,” said a woman protester Kamla Korte. She has received a bill of Rs26,340 for three-month period. 
 
 Residents told TOI that for the past couple of years, residents of Shivaji Nagar, Bhutia Darwaza, Ajabka Wada and adjoining areas are facing acute shortage of water. “The demand for water soars as temperature rises. Yet,   has failed us,” said Deepak Ubade, a resident of   in Mahal. 
 
 According to residents, they are getting one hour water in their tap and supply is very erratic. There is no particular time for water supply, they claimed. Shakuntala Warkhade, one of the protesters said: “We are unable to perform household work with tap water and for household works we have to depend upon well water.”
 
 “Despite this they are getting exorbitant water bills. Residents of around 10 localities say that they’ve been billed for an ocean of water they claim they didn’t use and are taking their fight to NMC zone office,” said Shelke. 
 
 Now, the NMC-OCW have issued notices to them to either clear the outstanding dues or face disconnection. Their problem grew worse since 2015, when every house got a new meter connection. This was contested and the NMC’s water works department had been asked to reassess the bill. 
 
 “It took one-and-a-half years since we raised the excess bill issue and demanded to reassess the bill, but till date nothing has been done,” said Sonabai Kale, a resident of Ajabka Wada in Mahal area. 
 
 Zonal manager (OCW) Nitin Gulhane assured to look into their demand.
 
 
