NEW DELHI: Nine out of 10 drivers feel using   while driving is dangerous, but almost half of them (47%) admitted to having received calls while behind the wheel, according to a recent study across eight cities. It found that 31% of bus and truck drivers often make calls while driving, the highest among all categories of drivers.

 The study based on responses of 1,700 drivers covered Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Kolkata, Bengaluru, Mangaluru, Kanpur and Jaipur. A maximum of 83% of the respondents in Bengaluru admitted using mobile phones while driving followed by 70% in Kolkata. In Mumbai, 65% admitted to have used their phones while driving. About 85% of the respondents across the cities admitted that they manually dial numbers while driving.
 
 This first ever report on  , by  , comes at a time when increasing use of mobile phones for receiving or making calls, reading message or scrolling for social network updates has been identified as the next big killer of youth on roads across the globe. One-fifth of the respondents admitted to having had near-miss situations or meeting with a road crash because they used a mobile phone while driving.
 
 “An analysis of the purpose of answering calls while driving shows that about 41% of people answer calls if it is work related, 36% claimed that they did so if they were travelling at low speed and 31% did the same if the call was of a personal social nature, for example from family,“ the report said.
 
 It also found that 34% of all respondents tend to apply sud den brakes when talking on the phone while driving and over 60% of the drivers across categories often change lanes while using the phone.
 
 According to the report, four out of 10 respondents in Bengaluru use mobile phones while driving for reading or sending messages.
 
 Highlighting the importance of enforcement to tame such drivers, the report said, “Nearly 94% of   and 67% of four-wheeler drivers send texts WhatsApp messages if there are no police officers in sight.“ The survey data shows that only 7% of the respondents use social media while driving.
 
 To check the menace of distracted driving, the foundation and Vodafone launched an app named “Road Safe“. One key features of the app is that it automatically disables calls   when the vehicle speed is more than 10kmph.
 
 Launching the app, joint secretary (transport) Abhay Damle said, “Only technology can find a solution to all forms of distracted driving.We are coming up with new features in vehicles that will keep a check on wearing of seatbelts and speeding."
 
