To the romantically-inclined,   rains mean respite from the heat, pakode and chai, and long drives. To the more pragmatic ones, however, rains in the city are nothing but pain, as they bring along waterlogging, jams, and getting stranded if you use public transport. However, the auto drivers and rickshaw pullers of the city end up making the most of the rains by charging commuters any fare they want, and they know that people will pay.
 
 
 
 Commuters say that auto drivers in most parts of Bareilly, particularly in low level areas or localities where water logging is a constant problem, double their fare when it rains. Pragya Kapoor, who lives in   Colony, says, "During rains, the dirty water even enters our houses and waterlogging is a regular problem here. Autowallahs and rickshaw-pullers take advantage of it. On a regular day, an auto ride costs me around Rs 50 from my workplace in Izzatnagar to Sanjay Nagar, but when it rains, I'm charged almost twice the amount. Agar bargain karo toh woh aage chale jaate hain.”
 
 Adding to the commuters' woes is the Shyamat Ganj area, which is closed due to the ongoing construction of a flyover. Autos end up charging nearly double the amount, if one has to commute from Rajendra Nagar, Janakpuri, DD Puram and several other colonies to Rampur Garden, Civil Lines and Cantonment. Ruchi Singh, who works for an insurance company and a resident of Model Town, says, "I take an auto from my house to my office in Civil Lines. But when it rains, autos easily charge over Rs 120 (almost double the amount).   gets water-logged during rains, so, you are left with no choice than to pay them the desired fare or else walk in knee-deep water."
 
 
  It’s not just the autowallahs, but the cycle rickshaws and e-rickshaws also that make the most of the monsoon. Sakshi Gupta, another resident of Model Town, who is taking coaching for Bank PO exams, says, "My coaching is barely 150 meters away from my house, which I sometimes cover on foot or go by rickshaw for Rs 20, but during rains, as my colony get water-logged, I am dependent on a rickshaw or an auto that charges Rs 70-80 to cover a 150-metre stretch! They know ki hamari bhi majboori hai, so we end up shelling extra fare whenever it is pouring heavily."
 Sandeep Chhabra, a whole-sale dealer of medicines in  , says, "My shop is located in the congested Nawabban Gali in Bada Bazaar. I usually go by my car, which has to parked at a certain distance from the shop. From the parking lot, my shop is around 100-120 meters. I usually walk down but during rains, it becomes impossible as the entire road gets flooded. So, I have to take a rickshaw to reach my shop. Usually, a rickshaw charges Rs10 for that distance, but when it rains they charge around '60 for simply crossing a narrow lane to reach the main road."
 
 
 An auto driver from Model Town says, “When it’s raining heavily, there is no scope for passengers to bargain or argue and that’s the point where we know kya demand karna hai. I’m not the only one, everyone is doing the same. I don’t think there is anything wrong in it!”
 
