NEW DELHI: Swaraj India president   on Tuesday wrote an open letter to  , asking him to bring out the truth behind his “unceremonious ouster” from AAP, along with that of   and some other members. 

 This comes days after Mishra apologized to his two former colleagues.
 
 “Today, you hinted at the truth of that scandal, but if you feel so, put the whole truth of that incident in front of the country (sic),” wrote Yadav. Mishra was at the forefront of the attack on Yadav and Bhushan at the national executive meeting of AAP in 2015.
 
 When contacted, Mishra refused to disclose information about the alleged conspiracy by AAP members to expel the two founding members. “I will have a discussion with Yogendra Yadav after which we will together make some disclosures,” Mishra told TOI. He appealed to the two leaders to save the movement from “corruption”. 
 
 The tussle between AAP convener   and other founding members, Yadav and Bhushan, started during the 49-day tenure of the AAP government. The Swaraj India members, who were previously with AAP, said that Yadav-Bhushan had raised questions on ticket distribution during the 2015 elections, donation to the party, etc. The two were issued a showcause notice by AAP for organising a ‘Swaraj Samwad’ in Gurgaon in 2015. The party later expelled them for “gross indiscipline and anti-party activities”. 
 
 While accepting the apology, Yadav said his (Mishra’s) role in the alleged conspiracy to expel him and other AAP members “shook his belief in humanity”. On Mishra’s request, Yadav had campaigned for him during the 2015 assembly elections.
 
 Admitting his “mistake”, Mishra told TOI that he attacked them on Kejriwal’s direction. “I didn’t listen to them when they said that corruption was creeping into AAP. On the directions of Kejriwal, I used unparliamentary language against them. I want to apologise to them again,” Mishra said. “As a blind follower, I was standing like a shield of Arvind Kejriwal when they were expelled from the party,” he added.
 
 An AAP spokesperson said, “After two-and-a-half-years, these fictitious fairy tales may be good for the media but they mean nothing to AAP.”
 
 Meanwhile, Yadav questioned Mishra’s silence for two long years. He also advised Mishra not to conduct daily press conferences against Kejriwal. He said while some of his allegations did carry some weight, others had not been substantiated with proof yet.
 
 
