TIRUPATI: India has perfected the low-cost technology developed a couple of years ago to extract gold from e-waste and is ahead of other countries. Australia, US and China are also in the race to recover gold from discarded mobile phones, computers, calculators and DVD players.

 A total of 6.29 lakh kg of gold worth Rs 1.6 crore is hidden in the 1.85 million tonnes of electronic scrap generated in India every year. E-waste is growing about 30% per annum. One tonne of mobile phone scrap can yield 340 grams of gold, said experts.
 
 The   (NML) in Jamshedpur has showcased its ‘gold from electronic scrap’ technology at the ongoing   in Tirupati. NML is part of the   (CSIR). A senior scientist at the CSIR pavilion told TOI that from the electronic waste, which is toxic for the environment, high-value precious metals like gold and silver can be extracted. Other elements like lead, platinum, rhodium, iridium and ruthenium can also be extracted. Base metals like nickel, iron, copper, aluminium, strontium, and zinc can also be recovered.
 
 E-waste also contains harmful elements like indium, arsenic, lead, mercury, beryllium, cadmium, and antimony. In all, electronic waste comprises 66% of metals that can be recovered and commercially reused. He said about 80% of the cost of metals can be recovered. NML has perfected this technology and transferred it to two private companies for commercial exploitation.
 
 “The hydrometallurgical process does not have any impact on the environment. It does not cause pollution and it does not generate any effluents. The technology provides for recovery of gold from waste printed circuit boards of mobile phones and scraps of medical and telecommunication devices with return on investment of 50%,” according to an NML publication.
 
 Experts pegged the value of the gold in electronic scrap generated in India per year at about 9% of the Union budget. The quantum of gold that can be recovered from electronic scrap varies from 20 parts per million (ppm) to 2,000ppm in the case of gold, and 200ppm to 2,000ppm in the case of silver. A mobile phone contains 350ppm, TV board 20ppm, computer board 250ppm and calculator 50ppm of gold.
 
