PUNE: Another election is upon the city but citizens need not worry about getting to places on time or if   would be the order of the day because of campaigning.

  has planned to designate open spaces across the city where candidates can hold their election rallies. Municipal commissioner Kunal Kumar said, “The list will be finalised in a day or two.”
 
 Civic officials said the chosen places are amenity spaces. The city has 400 such spots but not all will be allowed to be used for rallies. 
 
 Besides the civic spaces, private places can also feature in the list. Political parties will not be given permission to hold rallies at any spot other than th earmarked places. 
 
 “We have finalized a list of spots and some places will be added later after suggestions from political parties. The administration will declare the final list after talks with the police department,” PMC’s election officer   told TOI.
 
 Political parties will have to seek approval from the Pune police before a final nod is given to the venue for public meetings, he added.
 
 As many as 10 municipal corporations, including Pune, will go the polls on February 21 and the results will be announced on February 23. 
 
 The rallies are likely to start from the last week of January. The nominations are likely to be finalised by February 6 after which aspirants will have nearly 13 days for campaigning which will end on February 19.
 
 The civic officials said a decision to designate separate places was taken following complaints from citizens about political parties using roads and obstructing traffic. 
 
 “The priority will be to avoid giving road space for rallies. But a final call on whether to allow street corner meetings or small rallies will be taken based on the election commission’s guidelines,” a senior PMC official, requesting anonymity, said.
 
 There are over 26.43 lakh registered voters who will elect 162 corporators. The voting will be conducted in 41 panels across the city. Each panel will have a voting population between 60,000 and 85,000. According to preliminary indications, around 2,000 candidates will be contesting.
 
