New Delhi: Hours after Delhi University student and daughter of Army martyr Gurmehar   announced her withdrawal from the anti-ABVP campaign, minister of state for home Kiren   said she was free to act as she wants but said he had Leftists in mind when he spoke of influences acting on her. 

 Rijuju said Kaur should be left alone as per her wish but hit back at his critics who slammed him for asking who was “polluting” Gurmehar’s mind, saying that he stood by his tweet and was speaking his mind. “(When I say) somebody (is polluting her mind), I mean the Leftists,” he said.
 
 Taking up the ongoing slugfest with BJP’s political rivals, he said, “It was these Leftists who celebrated when Indian Army personnel were martyred in the 1962 (India-China) war, and raised anti-national slogans. But now, whoever makes anti-national statements will be dealt firmly under the law. Everybody has freedom of expression but must act as per the laws of the country.” 
 
 Rijiju said the Delhi Police had been informed about the alleged threats to Gurmehar and that her security will be attended to. Highlighting that Gurmehar was the daughter of a martyr, Rijiju, as quoted by ANI, even said the martyr's “soul must be weeping on seeing his daughter being misguided by those who celebrate the bodies of martyrs”.
 
 Asked about Gurmehar's decision to step back from the anti-ABVP protest on DU campus, Rijiju said: "She has the freedom to speak her mind. She has all the right to do whatever she wants. So don’t disturb her.” n her reported decision to leave Delhi for the time being, Rijiju said Delhi is a safe city and she should have nothing to fear. “That’s (to leave Delhi) her choice. She should be protected and will be protected,” he said.
 
 Speaking later on the sidelines of an event in the home ministry, he said: “Her security is our priority. No one should be threatened or harmed. If someone threatens a person on social media, action shall be initiated against him/her. The Delhi Police has been told (about alleged rape threat to Gurmehar). We take full responsibility of her security.”
 
 Asked if anybody from the government would reach out to the 20-year-old student and reassure her to return to Delhi, Rijiju said: “I can’t force her. She is a free girl. If she can speak whatever she wants, why should anyone pressure her where to stay and where not to stay." Welcoming the FIR by the Delhi Police regarding the alleged rape threat issued to Gurmehar, Rijiju said: “Anybody who has used such language must be identified. May be someone from a fake account has done this.”
 
