NEW DELHI:Only one out of every 10 beds reserved for the poor in select private hospitals is equipped to provide critical care. This, members of the free beds monitoring committee have found, is the reason why EWS beds remain vacant even as poor struggle for admission in government hospitals.

 Ashok  , member the committee said, critical beds in each identified private hospital are marked at the rate of 10% of total EWS beds, which is very small compared to the needs of poor patients and to the total critical beds in each of these identified hospitals.
 
 “A top private hospital in east Delhi, for example, has 402 beds. Of this, 127 (32%) are critical beds. However, in the EWS category, only four of 40 reserved beds have critical care facility,” he said. 
 
 Agarwal recently wrote to Delhi health minister   seeking action. Sources said the minister has asked the authorities concerned to look into the matter. There are 650 beds reserved for the poor in 45 identified private hospitals, which got land on concessional rates. At any given time, 20-30% of the EWS beds are lying vacant. 
 
 According to a   order, all private hospitals, which have been given land on concessional rates, have to reserve 10% of their in-patient department capacity for poor. Health experts say there is a need to increase the quota of critical care beds with ventilator support, so that the needy can avail the facility. 
 
 They also stressed on the need to educate the poor about their rights. “It has been seen that though unoccupied EWS non-critical beds are available in big numbers, patients who need critical bed is refused treatment on the ground that they require critical care,” Agarwal said.
 
 Recently, the petitions committee of the Delhi assembly carried out surprise inspection of two private hospitals in   to ascertain whether these were fulfilling their obligations to provide free service to the economically weaker sections. While a board outside one of the hospitals indicated that seven of the 11 beds were occupied, the committee found that only three EWS patients were admitted. The hospital was also found to be charging EWS patients for medicines. When the committee questioned the hospital, it has now given a written assurance that medicines will be provided for free.
 
