NEW DELHI: The Khadi & Village Industries Commission (KVIC) found itself embroiled in a controversy after PM   “ejected” Mahatma Gandhi from the agency’s calendar and diaries, prompting protests from a section of employees.

 An agency report said employees of KVIC staged “a silent soul-cleansing” on Thursday at its headquarters in Mumbai. They gathered and prayed before Gandhi’s statue, and later staged a symbolic protest wearing black bands on their mouths, it said. In this year’s calendar and diary,   is seen weaving khadi on a charkha, which is similar to Gandhi’s famous pose.
 
 When contacted, KVIC chairman Vinai Kumar Saxena said this was not the first time Gandhi’s image was not on the calendar and diaries. Last year, as well as in 2013 and 2005, Gandhi’s image was missing. “It is not compulsory and there is no rule (on having Gandhi’s image). Gandhiji has been the biggest brand ambassador for khadi and will always remain so.
 
 The entire khadi sector owes its existence to Gandhiji’s philosophy and ideas and there is no question of ignoring him,” Saxena told TOI over the phone. He said only a few employees, who were union members, had protested.
 
 KVIC employees are not convinced. “We are pained at this systematic easing out of Mahatma Gandhi’s ideas, philosophy and ideals by the government.
 
 Last year, the first minor attempt was made by including the PM’s photos in the calendar,” a news agency quoted a senior KVIC staffer as saying. Last year too, unions had raised the issue and they had been assured that this would not be repeated.
 
 Saxena said the PM was also making an enormous contribution to promote khadi, whose sales had shot up. He said Modi had made at least four references to khadi in his monthly radio address and many other steps had been initiated at his behest. “Our sales are growing at over 37% this year. In the last decade this rate ranged between 3% and 7%,” Saxena said, adding that the theme in this year’s calendars and diaries were “modern” and promoting new concepts.
 
