CHENNAI: Life imprisonment for five persons involved in a botched up   of a college girl in  , has been confirmed by the  , which, however, recorded its disapproval of the trial court order acquitting the convicts in other offences such as unlawful assembly and illegal confinement.

 The bench of Justices S Nagamuthu and Anitha Sumanth said, “We are really surprised by the conclusion arrived at by the trial court. It has come to the conclusion that all five accused were in an assembly and they abducted the victim girl for ransom. It is not understandable as to why the trial court had acquitted all these five accused from these charges under IPC. Initially the girl was abducted from Shastri Nagar by three accused, and others joined them en route and they fully participated in the abduction. Thus there is overwhelming evidence to prove that all these accused were in an unlawful assembly and abducted the girl for ransom. It is clearly established that all these five accused illegally confined the girl and attacked her. In view of the above, the accused are found guilty and convict them on all the above charges also.”
 
 The girl, a BTech final year student, was walking back home from the bus stop on December 23, 2013 when the two waylaid her and pushed her into a car coming in wrong direction. She was abducted at knife-point.
 
 On a complaint from her father, Shastri Nagar police registered a girl missing case and took up the investigation. The accused contacted the family soon after and spoke several times over phone demanding a ransom of Rs 2 crore. The culprits kept shifting places, and made her father run from pillar to post carrying the ransom money. Finally, they asked him to come near a hospital at Pallikaranai on December 24, 2013. While the money was changing hands, a police team that had been following the father’s vehicle nabbed prime accused Palaniswamy.
 
 The V additional sessions court found all five guilty on December 9, 2016 and awarded them imprisonment of life.
 
