BENGALURU: Over three months after a nine-member committee was constituted to design a  , it is yet to meet for the first time.

 At least two members confirmed to TOI that not even a single meeting has taken place till September 26.
 
 Chief minister Siddaramaiah has openly supported the flag and other   but insisted that they merit attention and aren't related to the upcoming elections. “The government's decision to form a   for the state was not taken keeping in mind the 2018 polls. Elections will be in April-May , not now, not tomorrow, not next month,“ Siddaramaiah had said while responding to queries after the setting up of the panel hit national headlines.
 
 “I didn't know I was part of the committee until I read it in the papers. We are yet to meet.I'm not sure how we are supposed to take this forward,“ said a committee member on condition of anonymity.
 
 In an order dated June 6, the government had nominated the principal secretary of the Kannada and culture department as chairperson of the committee, which will include secretaries of law, home and parliamentary affairs, and personnel and administrative reforms departments. Other members are presidents of Kannada Sahitya Parishat and Kannada Development Authority (KDA), Hampi University vice-chancellor and director of Kannada and culture department. Siddaramaiah, who has said more than once that the government will take a decision once the committee submits its report, has not formally communicated the same to the panel.While law secretary NC Srinivas said the committee has not met, KDA chairperson SG Siddaramaiah said: “We are taking up one issue at a time.“
 
 Notwithstanding the chief minister's public endorsement of the move and his claims that his “government isn't doing anything that the Constitution doesn't provide for“, sources in his office told TOI neither Siddaramaiah nor they had anything to do with the setting up of the committee. “It was done at the department (Kannada and culture) level and the CM only backed the move when the media confronted him. He supports the move but we didn't conceive it,“ one of them said.
 
 SG Siddaramaiah, however, said the panel is likely to meet in November -the month Karnataka celebrates Rajyotsava-and a plan will be chalked out then.
 
 
 
 
 That the committee has not even been briefed about its objectives feeds the opposition's accusations that the issue was taken up for political gain. “For the sake of politics should the principle of '  be altered? (sic),“ BJP national spokesperson Sambit Patra had tweeted when the news broke in July.
 
