MUMBAI: After the   stampede last Friday , Tues day was the first day to see regular rush after a long weekend.When TOI visited the staircase where the incident occurred, and surveyed other parts of the station, including its long foot over-bridge (FOB), it saw something that perhaps had never before been witnessed there, or for that matter at any other suburban station: commuters weren't jostling for space or pushing one another; instead, they had formed neat queues to enter or exit all staircases. Discipline was also maintained on the FOB, and the platform as well. Of course, personnel from the   ( ) were manning the crowds, but one could sense that the people were self-disciplined.

 The enormity of the tragedy, in which absolutely anyone among the millions using Mumbai's suburban train network could have perished, has hit the city hard.
 
 “It was a very strange feeling to walk on the same bridge, on the same stairs where so many people died just days ago. It was a sobering feeling, which I think everyone experienced. There was a rush even today , but we were all walking in queue. No one was pushing anyone else,“ said Priyanka Shah, a commuter.
 
 Stall owners said that just the day after the incident, commuter behaviour had markedly changed. One said he saw, for the first time in his life, people waiting on the platform rather than take the stairs along with scores of others. “I couldn't believe they were actually waiting,“ said one of the stall owners.
 
 An RPF man said, “I think the incident was a big lesson, a merciless lesson to commuters. Today , I saw people getting off trains like they should, in a sober way , space themselves out, and wai ting for their turn to climb the stairs.“
 
 Pushpa Mhaske travels to a church in   from Elphinstone Road every day . On Tuesday evening she said people were traversing the FOB “normally“. “The very next day after the stampede, I used the bridge just to see how it was. All was normal. On Friday, the fact that it was raining and two trains had arrived at the same time, added to the crush of the crowd. Rumours added fuel to fire.“ But another commuter, Anita Shah, said, “Even after this grotesque tragedy , I feel things will not change. Infrastructure overall will remain poor. The government will act only when it wants to.“
 
 She said the clearing of a new bridge for Elphinstone Road was a kneejerk reaction.“Similar trouble spots exist at all British-era stations. Elphinstone may get one new bridge, but does the government have the will to improve the rest?“
 
