BHOPAL: In a major blow to  , the state cabinet on Tuesday withdrew its earlier decision to increase DA by 7% and revised it to a hike of just 4%. On May 9, the government had approved a 7% hike in dearness allowance (DA) of government employees, pensioners, panchayati raj institutions, adhyapak (teacher) cadre in local bodies, panchayat secretaries of panchayat and rural development department with retrospect from January 1, 2017.

 The 7% hike in DA was also for permanent employees of state government from September 2016. Payment of arrears was to be made in financial year 2017-18. But on Tuesday, the cabinet under the leadership of chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan retracted the same and approved just 4% increase in DA.
 
 The cabinet also ratified amendment in   Police Karmchari Varg-Asadharan Pariwar Pension Niyam 1965. Families of martyred police personnel are now eligible for payment of dearness allowance which is revised from time to time. The government also decided to pay Rs 25 lakh to jawans martyred due to Naxal insurgency. The state government will also give a plot of land and a job on compassionate grounds to a family member of the martyr.
 
 In another decision, cabinet on Tuesday approved sanction for three irrigation projects with a total Rs 4017 crore to facilitate irrigation for more than one lakh additional hectare land and provide drinking water to 12 lakh persons in 819 villages.
 
 Briefing the media after the cabinet meeting, minister for water resources and government spokesman Narottam Mishra said, “The cabinet has sanctioned Rs 3735.90 cr for Bina multi-purpose irrigation project. This will benefit 296 villages of Khurai, Malthone and Bina tehsil of Sagar district while irrigating 90,000 hectare of land for rabi season. Additionally, potable water will be supplied through Nal-Jal Yojana to 819 villages in Rahatgarh, Jaisinagar, Malthone, Bina, Khurai and Kurwai development blocks of Sagar district.
 
 Cabinet sanctioned Rs 165.08 cr for Anwalia Medium Irrigation Project to facilitate rabi irrigation on 5,000 hectare land spread over 21 villages in Khandwa district. Similarly, cabinet sanctioned Rs 116.78 cr for Hirwar Micro Irrigation Project. This project will facilitate rabi irrigation on 7,000 hectare area in 49 villages of Byohari tehsil in Shahdol district to provide kharif crop irrigation on 3100 hectare area.
 
 The government also decided to change the name of Adim Jati Kalyan Vibhag (Scheduled Tribe Wefare Department) to Janjati Karya Vibhag. The cabinet, while reworking salaries of 94 employees of the   department, has ratified payment with arrears.
 
 Cabinet also decided to create six posts for   of high court in Jabalpur and 17 posts of various cadre for Madhya Pradesh  , Jabalpur.
 
