LUCKNOW: Akhilesh Das’s family, his wife Alka, and children Viraj Sagar and Sona, had no time to prepare themselves for the news. They were in New Delhi, and Das was in Lucknow, attending to business as usual, when he suffered a cardiac arrest and died in his sleep on Wednesday morning. 

 By the time the family rushed the unconscious Das to Lari Cardiac Centre around 8.30am on Wednesday, doctors declared him dead on arrival. As word got out, friends, colleagues, and family poured in, each one shocked that a man attending to his work until late last night, now lay in the front hall of his Lucknow home, lifeless.
 
 Eventually, when Das’s wife and children reached home past noon, still disbelieving of the suddenness of the tragedy, the sight of Das rendered them inconsolable. A grieving family friend at their Vikramaditya Marg bungalow, said, “Das was with his Man Friday, Negi, till around 2am, after which he usually retires to bed. In the morning, when the house help went into Das’s room, he found him unresponsive. That’s when an ambulance was called. By the time he was rushed to the hospital, it was all over.”
 
 The former mayor of Lucknow, three-time Rajya Sabha member, who finally came back to the   camp in January this year, after spending six years in BSP, Das was a well-known name in Lucknow’s business, political and social circles. While Congress leaders Pramod Tiwari and MLA Aradhana Mishra were among the first to reach his house in the morning, UP chief minister  , former CM Akhilesh Yadav and BSP leader Naseemuddin Siddiqui were among those who came to pay their last respects.
 
 A constant stream of well-wishers and employees also stationed at the bungalow since word of Das’s demise got out. An employee of a publication Das is associated with, said, “As employees, we feel orphaned. Many unkind things may have been said about him, but to us Dr Das was a kind and benevolent employee. He cared for the people who worked for him. From funding our children’s education to their weddings, no one who went to him for help was turned away.”
 
 A grieving family member said, “The only God Das believed in was Ganesha. We now hope he will be looked after by him.”
 
