In all elections, parties promise to take you to a better place. Consequently, it is not competing visions that occupy voters, but which of the many is more believable. In Uttar Pradesh, without doubt, Modi is the one person who scored over all others as the best dream merchant. It is the Prime Minister’s nationwide reputation that has paid off, and the scrubbed data shows that. People everywhere admire a decisive leader, even if some of the decisions from the top may be doubtful. The most confident chest thumper and the one most disdainful of opposition, is the one who wins. In a democracy, leadership is all; not the voice from the ground but the roar from the top.

 Congress in Punjab is identified with   and it did well there, but in UP where the party is known by the Gandhis, it has lost miserably. There is a lesson here not just for commentators but for members of the Congress too. Can that party survive if it stays tied to the family? The drubbing Congress received in UP, in particular Amethi (hitherto Rahul’s backyard), leaves no doubt on how far below the radar the once mighty have fallen.
  
 In the past, conventional wisdom believed that the majority community would be equally divided and hence the trick was to win the minorities to tip the scales. In recent times, and in the most recent elections in India, this formula lies dead in the water. In constituencies with over 25% Muslim voters, the BJP has won 57 seats, while the SP-Congress combine and the BSP have captured only 28 and three, respectively.
  
 Therefore, what works instead is majority consolidation, not minority fine-tuning. The fight from now on is not “my minorities versus yours”, but my “majority versus yours”. On this score the BJP is well ahead of the curve and others will have to start climbing it as well. This is not good news especially when majority-making is against the backdrop of minority-baiting. In the meantime, forces are conspiring to erase the usual caste and occupational variations in electoral behaviour.
  
 It is not difficult to figure out why this should be so. There are greater similarities between regions and caste than what we are accustomed to believe.
 
 Urbanisation, migration and the breakdown of agricultural economic relations, have made many of the earlier caste/community distinctions irrelevant. So BJP does well in both east and west UP and in Punjab, Congress fortunes are randomly dispersed across Malwa, Majha and Doaba. In this context, it can be assertively concluded that whichever party is better at majority consolidation is the one that will come out the winner.
 
 Election analyses must always examine the context within which these political battles take place. It might appear that the winning party alone is the one that counts, but people also vote negatively to make a party victorious. This is why we must factor in the competition at all times. Akhilesh and Rahul came together to put out the Modi fire, but as they dribbled their resources along the way they ran out of water at the critical time. In alliances of this kind, it’s not wise to keep close to one’s friends. At any rate, after these results, the Congress will sleep like a baby; it will cry all night.
 
 In Punjab, the traditional contest between Akali Dal and Congress got a new wrinkle with Aam Aadmi Party entering the fray. However, leadership wise, the most credible figure was Amarinder Singh. The Badals had disgraced themselves over the past five years and Aam Aadmi Party could not put up a credible chief ministerial candidate — they were all foot soldiers. Even in Punjab, it was more Amarinder Singh’s victory than the Congress’s and the voters figured that out.
 
 First, people in Punjab, for a long time, had sensed the tension between the Gandhi family and Amarinder Singh. Second, the fact that Rahul announced the chief ministerial candidate so late clearly did not affect the Captain’s chances.
  
 In the context of recent debates it is clear that demonetisation has worked in favour of the BJP and against Akhilesh and Rahul. There are reasons for this. It has been said, time and again, over the years, by different parties and intellectuals, that black money is the cause of our economic misery. On this there was consensus and nobody questioned the validity of the black money syndrome. Yet, nothing was actually done till Modi came along. This made Modi seem a champion of the poor, over and above being a decisive leader. This combination is hard to beat.
  
 Demonetisation may not achieve its stated goals, but that only the future can tell. But for now, the party is over, the guests have gone, and Akhilesh and Kejriwal are paying the bill.
 
