CHENNAI: With   chief minister O   residence welcoming several former distracters since Tuesday, a few students who had taken part in the recent   protests on Marina Beach too found their calling at Greenways Road on Sunday.

 They were given a task. Armed with notebooks, they took down the names and contact details of people who signed their names on the white boards kept at the residence. 
 
 "These are people expressing support for the chief minister's signature campaign," said Sneha Murali, an event management executive. Panneerselvam on Saturday launched a signature campaign to convert his mentor J Jayalalithaa's residence into 'Amma Memorial'.
 
 Sneha, and her colleague, Ebi Varghese, who participated in the jallikattu protests, were joined by Oliver Nathaniel and Yona Joshua, both visual communication students at Loyola College.
 
 When asked what brought them to  's residence, Sneha replied that it was a “common cause” that had reunited them. "We have a lady ( ) who has allegedly bought over half of Chennai (properties) using strong arm tactics. We cannot sit silent and let her just take over," said Nathaniel. 
 
 Joshua is irked that Sasikala's family had been allowed to take control of affairs. "They (family) are everywhere now. But when students protested for jallikattu, they were nowhere to be seen, including Sasikala," he said.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 While the dissent towards Sasikala is palpable, on what grounds were they supporting Panneerselvam - the man who was christened “mixture mama” by social media pages at the height of the student protests, less than a month ago?
 
 "We understand that OPS does not have a clean image," said Varghese. "But there are only two options now, and he is the lesser of the two evils," added Sneha. The students said they "believe" in the case of a dissolution of the assembly, the "Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will gain strength" in the state. 
 
 "We don't want that to happen either. Since, OPS has been chief minister thrice before and we know that he was chosen by Jayalalithaa, we believe it is right that he continues," Joshua said.
 
 "We have a chameleon and a snake. What we know is that the snake is poisonous," Varghese said.
 
 
