GURUGRAM: When they decided to buy a place in Heritage City, residents thought ‘complex’ was a word for the society, not for the type of problems they would face.   on   might boast one of the most upmarket addresses in the whole of  , but it lacks as basic a requirement as a convenient   and exit gate.

 Spread over 24 acres, the society has 726 flats, and two gates, one each for entry and exit. However, the gates are just 75 metres apart, and both open on to busy MG Road. Thus, coming in and going out of the condo complex is a major challenge, every day, as TOI Gurgaon found out on Sunday.
 
 Lawyer S P Singh says that back when Heritage City was built, in 1995, there was no mall or metro station. So, one gate was sufficient. But now, Singh pointed out, it takes around 15 to 20 minutes to leave the society, and there is an urgent need for another gate.
 
 S Vijay, CEO of a travel company, said that an alternative exit is of the highest priority. “We face a huge rush outside our gates during rush hours, and when there is a movie show, etc. We tried opening a gate on the DLF Phase-II side, but they got a stay order.”
 
 Umesh Oberoi, the society’s security in-charge, revealed that five years back, a ‘disaster committee’ had identified that Heritage City was located in seismic zone II. “The letter was sent to the authorities to sanction us another gate on priority – it’s all there in the papers. But when we opened it, the DLF people caused a commotion,” said Oberoi.
 
  
  Around 40 per cent of the residents in Heritage City are senior citizens, and on Saturday, an 80-year-old woman fell ill. An ambulance was called but it took 45 minutes for the vehicle to enter the society. That’s because the road outside is often choked with autos and cabs, and hawkers and pedestrians, for Heritage is sited right next to a shopping mall and the MG Road metro station. Even a prominent location has its drawbacks.
 
 Philanthropist Anita Chester said parking spaces in the mall’s basement lie empty since all cars and cabs are parked on the road. Arunesh Prasad, a retired air force officer, felt the answer lies in “dedicated hawker zones”.
 
 There have also been two incidents of fire in Heritage City. Fire tenders could not reach on time due to traffic congestion outside the society gates but residents managed to bring the situation under control both times, through their own initiative.
 
 Worse, encroachments outside the gates have invited anti-social elements. TOI had earlier reported incidents of eve-teasing and pub brawls, as well as criminal activities and a prostitution racket, on the ‘Mall Mile’. Not surprisingly, residents live in constant apprehension, and families are advised not to venture out on this stretch. “The malls have illegal activities, and the pubs and roads are swarmed with suspicious looking girls in the night. It is not safe for women to go out after dark,” says Captain Amarvir Saran.
 
 Besides, the society does not have a community centre, a place for residents to rejuvenate after a long day. According to H S Bhatia, a retired army officer, the builder had promised such a centre. “It has been 18 years – the building is there but it has not been handed over to us. We were promised a jogging track, school, swimming pool, clubhouse, etc,” shared Bhatia.
 
 The problems may be plenty but residents are willing to be proactive, and to contribute to the solutions. “Let’s not wait for something really bad to happen,” cautioned Swapna Mukhopadhya, who runs a charitable school. “We want a police booth to be installed that will control the nuisance outside the mall and metro station.”
 
 Raman Narayanan, a CFO at a private company, missed an evening flight to Mumbai recently because of snarls on MG Road. “Authorities come once in a while, conduct a drive and leave. The next day it is back to chaos. We are willing to provide no parking/hawker zone signs – the authorities can put their name on it and erect the same,” he suggested.
 
 Homemaker Archana Saxena urged separate parking for autos and cabs. “Also, the path outside the society until the metro station should be a vehicle-free zone,” she added.
 
 
