MUMBAI: The Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority ( ) has decided to connect the fast-growing Mira-Bhayander Municipal Corporation (MBMC) with an elevated  , to help reduce congestion in Western Railway suburban trains and Western Express Highway traffic, at a cost of around Rs 3,600 crore.

 MMRDA has begun construction of Metro corridorsD N Nagar to Dahisar (Metro 2A) and Andheri to Dahisar via WEH (Metro 7), but Mira-Bhayander residents have long been demanding connectivity.
 
 MMRDA additional metropolitan commissioner   said, “The Metro corridor will run 9km into Mira-Bhayander. We plan a station for every km, which means there will be nine.”
 
 The stations’ exact location will be finalised when carrying out a detailed project report. The Metro corridor is likely to originate at Golden Nest Circle. It alignment will be along the Surat-Dahisar highway, before moving on the Mira-Bhayander road via Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Chowk (Kashimira junction).
 
 Darade said, “We have interoperability with Metro VII, which run along the WEH. Some services can operate from Dahisar and others from Mira-Bhayander.”
 
 As per WR’s ticket sale data,   has an originating passenger count of 1.73 lakh per day and Mira Road 1.11 lakh.
 
 Mira Road resident Rupesh Desai said, “It is extremely risky to board a train from Mira Road or Bhayander during morning peak hours as all come packed from Virar. The Metro will help reduce hardships by a huge extent.”
 
 Bhayander resident   said, “Road transport is not feasible as the WEH is choked near the Kashimira Junction and then at the toll naka. Traffic also moves at a snail’s pace up to Bandra. The trains is the only feasible option as it is the fastest mode of travel.”
 
 In December 2016, the MBMC had unanimously passed a resolution demanding extension of the Metro line beyond Dahisar. All parties, including the ruling BJP-Shiv Sena, Congress and NCP agreed to the need to extend the Metro. The proposal was then sent to MMRDA, the agency implementing Metro projects
 
 The civic administration had suggested that the line running on the East can pass through Kashimira, Golden Nest Circle, Maxus Mall, Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose ground and Bhayander (W).
 
 The line running on the West (Link Road) can pass through Mira Road, Bhayander (W), the municipality had said. 
 
 Since October 2015, residents took to social media and signed petitions demanding #MetroForMiraBhayander. They felt that if the Metro can run up to Dahisar, it can be extended to Mira-Bhayander. The Metro is seen as the only hope in decongesting public transport in the western suburbs.
 
