CHENNAI:   in   is unlikely to happen any time soon, as the   (SEC) told the Madras high court on Friday that it was 'practically not possible' for it to complete the poll process by May 14, as directed by the court. 

 Blaming the state government for the delay in implementing certain directives of the court, senior counsel for the SEC said certain aspects in connection with elections, which had to be completed by the state government, had not been completed as yet. "It is practically not possible for the commission to complete the election process by May 14," said B Kumar, senior counsel for TNSEC. 
 
 On its part, the first bench of acting Chief Justice Huluvadi G Ramesh and Justice RMT Teeka Raman asked how could the commission be forced to conduct the elections when it claimed that there were practical difficulties. It asked the SEC to file a detailed counter-affidavit explaining the 'difficulties'.
 
 As per the February 22 order of a division bench, the SEC is mandated to conduct the local body elections not later than May 14. The commission was also directed to "truthfully" comply with the directions issued by   on October 4, 2016. The single judge's directions include making mandatory for contesting candidates to file affidavits disclosing their antecedents and uploading them on the commission's website. Cancelling the original election notification dated September 26, 2016, the judge had also directed the government to bring in amendments to prevent persons who are convicted in certain offences from contesting the elections.
 
 Now, citing the same directions, the SEC told the bench on Friday that single judge's order mandated that certain aspects like disposing of the objections filed against reservations and rotation of seats must be completed before commencing the election process. "It is for the state government to dispose of the objections, as the TNSEC does not have such powers. If the SEC commences the process before fulfilling these mandates it will be a plain violation of the order," Kumar said. 
 
 A submission to this effect was made when social activist A Narayanan filed an intervening petition saying postponing civic elections beyond six months would be violation of constitutional mandate.
 
