GOA: Responding to the central government’s order withdrawing permission to the additional solicitor general   to represent Goa state in the Mhadei water diversion matter, Goa chief minister  , seeking Prime Minister   intervention, has said that the central government’s decision appeared to have been taken due to political influence from Karnataka.

 Parsekar on Wednesday wrote the letter seeking Prime minister’s’s intervention in getting the additional solicitor general A N S Nadkarni reinstated as the legal counsel for the state of Goa in matter related to Mhadei inter-state water dispute.
 
 He said “.. it appears to be that on account of some political influence wielded by the state of Karntaka and its politicians the steps have been taken by your (law) ministry without even calling for views of the state of Goa or without in any manner putting me to notice as it was at my request to the Hon’ble PM that the permission was granted”.
 
 “In the media as well as in the political dispensation of the state, this action of the union ministry has caused flutters and is likely to aggravate the situation”, Parsekar said in the letter, copy of which is with TOI.
 
 As reported earlier, in what is see as a setback to Goa in the Mhadei matter, the union law ministry by a order dated February 3, withdrew permission given to Nadkarni, to represent Goa government in the Mhadei water diversion case before the Mhadi water dispute water tribunal.
 
 The Goa CM also said that the objections rasied by the Karnataka and politicains from that state are only to deprive the state of Goa of the advantage of having the same professional lawyer appearing for the state fo Goa and wherein in three earlier rounds of litigation, Goa has succeeded before the Mhadei tribunal.
 
 Parsekar has disagreed with the point raised by the law ministry that it "It escaped attention to consider that it is an interstate river water dispute between the states of Goa and Karnataka and such, it would not be appropriate for a law officer of   to appear on behalf of one state in a dispute against another state."
 
 He further said that is not the case wherein the union of India has lent its law officer to appear against the state of Karnataka. “This is a case wherein the case of continuity and consistency and for proper and smooth handling of the dispute this arrangement is required”, he added
 
 Parsekar said that the fact that it is an inter-state river dispute “was specifically brought to the notice of the law ministry by me earlier letter”. Then by a letter dated July 11, 2016, Nadkarni was permitted to represent Goa state in the Mhadei matter.
 
 There are several instances where the law officers of the union of India, have been permitted to appear against the state government, the chief minister said adding that “Cases in this regard are well known and have been highlighted in the media too”
 
 Highlighting the reasons for the need to have Nadkarni on board, the chief minister said that “at this juncture when the dispute is at an advanced stage to bring in a new person and replace the Mhadei team would be not only a very tough and difficult job but rather grossly unjust for the state to be denied this permission”
 
 “At this juncture it is virtually impossible for the state to engage any other lawyer who will have such depth, touch and acquaintance of the matter as well as the location”, he said while requesting the PM’s intervention to recall the law ministry’s order and restore permission as granted earlier in July 2016.
 
