AURANGABAD: Farmers in parts of Marathwada will soon have visits of government veterinary doctors at their home for carrying out artificial insemination of their livestock, besides providing a range of other facilities to increase milk production. 

 These measures will be part of the dairy development programme proposed by the Centre for welfare of farmers in drought-prone areas and where farmer suicides are relatively more. 
 
 The semen collected from indigenous varieties of bulls would be preferred during artificial insemination. It would not only save time and energy, but also ensure desired traits appear in new born cattle and thereby increasing milk production, government authorities said. Devani and Lalkandhari varieties of bulls and Pandharpuri and Jafrabadi varieties of buffalos are likely to get priority for artificial insemination. 
 
 The dairy development programme, which has received in-principle approval from Union agriculture minister Radha Mohan Singh on Wednesday, also involves facilitating cold strorages, offering nutritious diet to cattle, setting up milk processing facilities and other farmer-centric activities.
 
 It will have a financial outlay of Rs 340 crore and will cover Osmanabad, Latur, Nanded and Jalna districts of Marathwada and six Vidarbha districts. 
 
 The programme will be launched under the National Agriculture Development Scheme. Agriculture minister Singh, Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari and officials from the Centre and the state were part of the meeting during which modalities of the programme were discussed, authorities from the Maharashtra Information Centre, New Delhi said. 
 
 B B Bhosale, director of extension education at Parbhani-based Vasantrao  , said artificial insemination of livestock at the doorstep of farmers would ensure scientific breeding.
 
 “The existing practice of inseminating cattle involves arranging mating of animals at village level. It can be termed unscientific as no attention is paid to traits in animals. Farmers have to incur transportation cost and other expenses. Artificial insemination at home would be therefore in the best interests of farmers,” he said. 
 
 The farming community from the region has welcomed the move, but has raised objections over choice of the districts for implementing the development programme. 
 
 “Beed and Aurangabad should have been incorporated in the scheme as they fulfil the defined criteria for the dairy development programme. Jalna has found a place in the scheme even though it is not that affected compared to other Marathwada districts. Political influence could be the reasons behind it, said Jayaji Suryawanshi, a farmer leader. 
 
 Subhash Washikar, a farmer from Osmanabad district, said the benefits of dairy development programme should actually reach the needy farmers. 
 
 “Farmer suicides are uncommon in western Maharashtra as the peasant community there has opted for allied businesses in the form of dairy development and animal husbandry. The proposed initiative related to dairy development should empower farmers from Marathwada in a similar manner,” he said. 
 
 Nagpur, Wardha, Yeotmal, Amravati, Akola and Buldhana are the Vidarbha districts that will be covered under the scheme. 
 
