As in the 2012 civic polls, there will not be any understanding between BJP and Shiv Sena in the February 21 Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) elections. The BJP’s city unit took the decision following “strong sentiments” prevailing among its rank and file that the party is competent of putting up an astounding show in the civic polls on its own. 

 Moreover, BJP is banking on the “popularity” of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the party’s supremacy at the state level to win the NMC polls. 
 
 Announcing the party’s decision on Tuesday, BJP MLA from Nashik Balasaheb Sanap told TOI, “Taking into account of the sentiments of the party members we have decided to go solo in Nashik civic polls. This decision is only for Nashik. We are prepared to contest the civic polls on our own and perform well in all 122 seats here.” 
 
 According to him, over 700 aspirants have applied for party tickets to contest the polls. “Each prabhag has 8-10 applications. From 14 corporators in 2012, we now have 17. In addition, 22 corporators from different parties joined us. Our target is to win all the 122 seats and come to power in the NMC,” Sanap said.
 
 During the 2012 civic elections, BJP and Sena had fought the polls separately. BJP supported the ruling   (MNS) and was with it for two-and-a-half years. It withdrew support to MNS before the Assembly elections.
 
 In the past, BJP has always been a shadow of Shiv Sena in the city since their alliance in 1997 with the latter traditionally having its stronghold.
 
 With the BJP’s strength increasing in the city and Sena’s image taking a slight beating in 2012, the former contested the civic polls independently. As the strongest opposition in the civic body, Sena began strengthening its party. In the meantime, MNS was reduced from 40 to 13 in the NMC. With an apparent Modi wave and BJP gaining foothold in the state, the party has once again decided to go solo.
 
 Reacting to the BJP’s decision, Sena city chief Ajay Boraste said his party was capable of contesting the election on its own “as we have worked for people across the district, including the city”. He said, “BJP is behaving in a strange way. On one hand, CM   is keen on an alliance. On the other hand, the BJP’s Nashik unit has decided to contest alone.” 
 
 “In the municipal council elections, we won four out of six seats. BJP won only one and that too with our alliance. We are prepared to contest and win all 122 seats on our own,” Boraste said, as he reminded BJP leaders that the alliance was the brainchild of senior (BJP) leader Pramod Mahajan and Shiv Sena chief   “considering the Hindutva factor”.
 
