NAGPUR: A month after the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) elections, there will be a flurry of hectic   for the elections to the chairpersons — called as mini mayors — in 10 zones. The election will be held on March 30. Nomination forms were filed on Wednesday. The   will begin at 10.15am on Thursday.

 Corporators coming under the zone will vote in the election. With 108 corporators in the 151-member House, BJP has already emerge victorious in eight zones as none of the corporators from opposition parties submitted nomination in Laxmi Nagar, Dharampeth, Hanuman Nagar, Dhantoli, Nehru Nagar, Gandhibagh, Satranjipura and Lakadganj zones. 
 
 If BJP corporators, which has three corporators in Ashi Nagar, decides to abstain from the election in the zone, the Bahujan Samajwadi Party (BSP) might win here easily as it has seven corporators while Congress has five. BSP has fielded first-time corporator Vaishali Narnaware for the post while Congress has fielded second-time corporator Bhawna Lonare.
 
 Ruling party leader   said that the party has left three mini-mayors seats for women corporators (Dharampeth, Nehru Nagar and Gandhibagh). In Gandhibagh zone with 16 corporators, BJP has 11. Here, BJP has fielded Sumedha Deshpande. 
 
 In Mangalwari zone, BJP has eight corporators, while Congress and BSP have five and three corporators, respectively. BJP has fielded   while BSP has proposed Sanjay Burewar’s name. Here, if Congress extends support to BSP, the election will be very interesting.
 
 Prakash Bhoyar is BJP’s candidate from  . Here, the party has 13 from among 16 corporators, while three are with Congress. Rupa Rai is BJP candidate from Dharampeth zone. Hanuman Nagar zone will win unopposed as BJP has all the 16 corporators from this zone. Deepak Chowdhary is the party’s candidate for the post. 
 
 In Dhantoli zone, where BJP has 10 corporators, it has fielded Pramod Chikhale. In Nehru Nagar zone too, BJP’s Rekha Sakore will be elected unopposed. Here, Congress and Shiv Sena have two corporators each.
 
 Satranjipura zone has 9 BJP corporators, one independent and two Congress corporators. BJP has fielded Sanjay Chawre for the post. Chawre too will win the election unopposed. 
 
 In Lakadganj zone, BJP with 14 corporators BJP has fielded Deepak Wadibhasme. Congress and NCP have one corporator each. 
 
 Meanwhile, elections of chairmen of 10 special consultative committees including The Estate and Projects Committee, health committee, law consultative committee, education committee, Dalit Basti Nirmulan Samiti, Fire Brigade and Electrical Committee, Sports committee, Women and Children Welfare Committee, Water Works committee and Tax consultative committee will also be held on Thursday.
 
