MOONJ (ETAWAH): Tucked away in the thickets on the outskirts of   is a place where myth and folk tales come alive. The   is located barely 1.5km from the exit ramp of the  .

 With a little support, the village with a temple has the potential to generate a buzz among tourists.
 
 The site of attraction is a temple highly revered by locals. A trek up to a mound is all it takes to reach the spot. Mordhwaj temple is named after the mythological king believed to a blessed by Lord Krishna himself. 
 
 The short drive to Moonj from the high-speed corridor seems like the entrance to a bird sanctuary. Scores of peacocks and hundreds of birds flock these thickets. 
 
 “Even birds get startled by the sound of a four-wheeler,” says Ram Swarup Yadav, who seems equally perplexed looking at a car outside his house. 
 
 Earlier, the distance Lucknow and Moonj was 260km through NH-2 and one had to take a detour to the interiors. With the expressway, the distance has come down to 190km and one can reach Moonj just by going down the expressway and into the village. 
 
 Like most folklores, it all started with the discovery of a Shivling and a peepal tree. 
 
 “The Shivling is more than 1,500 years old. The peepal tree has also been here for decades,” says Yadav, who owns multiple educational institutes in Moonj. 
 
 While the actual temple was built in May 2002, the spot itself has been revered by villagers for hundreds of years. 
 
 Villagers say they draw inspiration from the legendary king. 
 
 “We have grown up hearing Mordhwaj’s tales. He was a giver who believed in helping others. He never allowed visitors to leave his kingdom without a meal,” says Satyaveer Singh, a local resident. 
 
 Legend has it that once Lord Krishna and warrior Arjun reached Mordhwaj’s house along with a tiger. To feed the tiger, they asked Mordhwaj to sacrifice his son and bring the right portion of his body as meat for the animal. The king and his wife pleaded with their visitors to feed something else to their pet instead. But the two did not relent. When the couple agreed to do so, Krishna came up with another condition. He said if the couple sheds a single tear, the tiger would not accept the meat.
 
 The gracious hosts, Mordhwaj and his wife, used a saw and without a single tear, killed their son and brought the meat to Lord Krishna. It was at this point that Krishna and Arjun revealed their true selves and bowed down before the couple who had successfully proved their devotion for others. As the two were leaving, Mordhwaj’s son came out from the house and hugged his parents. 
 
 Ending on a positive yet powerful note, it was this tale that has led villagers to pray to Mordhwaj. Believing that thier wishes will come true, the holy spot has gained credence with time. 
 
 Every full moon night, about 12,000 villagers of Moonj visit the temple to seek blessings of Mordhwaj. Bhagwat Path performed in the form of a dance drama is also a huge crowdpuller. The villagers themselves participate in it. 
 
 The founder of the temple, seer Omgir was not around but his disciple told TOI, “Villagers came together to build a temple here. Though the structure seems ordinary, it reminds us of the value of integrity on a daily basis.” 
 
 The pradhan of Moonj, Sunil Kumar Yadav, says he has made several requests to local authorities to popularise the temple. 
 
 “Funds in the past have been utilized to convert the kutcha road leading up to the temple into a brick road. The administration or tourism department should also take interest. We are happy to say that homestays in villages around the temple are gaining popularity,” he says. 
 
 
