Amidst the sound of chirping birds which hit the octave note of a song unknown, that quirky flight of pigeons hitting windowsills, the sight of peeping sun through ajar door waiting for my little one to wake up from night long slumber; I broke into a song I heard long back “morning is here, sunshine is here”. 

 Rubbing his eyes with tiny hands, he finally woke up. Resplendent with tender sun rays, his face threw rapid glances all around the room. Finally, he gazed at morning guests resting at windowpanes. Soon after his measured surveillance, my face became the next focal point of his wondrous eyes.
 
 It had been a few weeks that I shifted to Bengaluru. The unsettling phase (after the paraphernalia which relocation involves) was still lingering, coupled with weather woes which gave me little time to interact with my  . Unlike, the carefree relationship I shared with him (under the guidance of my creators), new place brought uncertainty.
 
 My parents had taken care of everything pertaining to a newborn care. My mother let my spirit revel in the joy of writing, reading, and thereby, helping me build a world of my own. This cosmos which I inhabited was done up with dreams dawned with fresh perspective which new mothers commonly get robbed off, owing to responsibilities which childbirth necessitates. Also, it is an unbeatable fact that a mother’s nest is the best place for any daughter, for she is always a princess there. 
 
 At my native place, I used to religiously sing Saraswati Vandana minutes after my son woke up. It was a binding force; a prayer for all. This cocooned world was broken the day I shifted. I was at odds with the outside world.
 
 The practice got disrupted in his tenth month. I happened to hum again that forsaken tune one morning in Bengaluru. As I warbled the devotional prayer to the Goddess Saraswati, my son who was busy playing with his toe fingers lifted his chin up instantaneously (almost with the speed of a bullet), flashing a big smile. 
 It was no ordinary smile!
 
 “Oh Mother, this was the song of our togetherness. You sang it after so many days!” my son’s facial expressions spoke louder than words.
 
 Those divine seconds put the spotlight on the fact that even little souls, who are yet to see the world, can impart wisdom. The blessed soul could recall the beauty of the prayer which touched his heart; whereas, I got drowned in the vicissitudes of everyday matters. That moment disconnected me from deadlines and resurrected my being in present. A space where life dances in all its glory and mystery. As time ticks away, infants like crisp pages from the book of life turn effortlessly unveiling lighter moments. 
 
 Any realisation, a forsaken memory, a soft trigger or any ominous sign always lurks at some remote corner of our existence. That potential moment is the harbinger of hope. A force which puts one back to a pedestal point from where the holistic view of life is amassed, much away from materialistic goalposts.
 
 Children can put one into that sublime space where life happens. Like tiny droplets of water perched on a leaf, they arrest the purity of the whole Universe within them; merely observing them can astound one beyond measures. Life is as simple as that twinkling second, isn’t it? We make it complicated. 
 
 Truly, to have a mother and be a mother is life’s greatest blessing. An opportunity where God chooses you to unravel life which you thought never existed; a privilege to shape the other soul as you lead your own life.
 
 
 
 
