Lucknow: The leader of Pink revolution in   and UP’s famous social activist working for women welfare and empowerment, Congress’ Manikpur candidate   aspires to open a ‘Film City’ in the remote and deserted   of Bundelkhand if she gets elected.

 The idea struck her when her struggle as a woman and her brainchild ‘Pink Revolution’ in Bundelkhand started attracting filmmakers from across the globe. Her story was depicted in the 2014 movie ‘Gulaab Gang’ in which actor   portrayed her role and made her a household name in the country.
 
 Inspired by the success, Pal is dreaming to open a   in her region. An excited Pal shared, “Pink Revolution has been depicted in many documentaries but it is a story that still needs to be told to more. Many producers and directors have approached me to shoot for movies on the life of Bundelkhand, especially women. Film makers face and their crew face problems in the remote lands of Bundelkhand and my film studio will give them all facilities from cameras, editing machines, production and sound equipment.”
 
 Bundelkhand has always been known for issues like poverty, droughts, water crisis, farmers’ suicide, etc and makes a fertile ground for political issues during elections, it is a difficult task for Sampat Pal to educate people in her constituency about what a ‘film studio’ means and how it would benefit them.
 
 “People here have never seen a movie theatre and a studio here will also create job opportunities for villagers as running it would need labourers, mechanics, hotels and lodges nearby thus paving way for even development of infrastructure.”
 
 Pal tell TOI she is in talks with a Mumbai film producer who is ready to fund a film studio in Bundelkhand. To propagate her modern idea of development, she is communicating through an innovative medium—musical poems recited by her co-workers amid groups of villagers and gram pradhans. The poems are composed by her group. Addressing a village Gopipur, her team sings, “Koi nahin sunaiya bhaiya, daiyaa is rajdhaani mein, Sadiyon se hum thage ja rahe sabki Ramkahaani mein.”
 
 
