BENGALURU: Karnataka State Commission for the   (KSC- PCR) summoned the commissioner of   (KVS) over the transfer of Kumar Thakur, principal of a KV school in the city, who was arrested earlier this month for sexually harassing a class 12 student. 

  Charged under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act, Thakur was released on bail a day after his arrest. He was transferred to a   
 
  Taking exception to Thakur's transfer despite grave charges against him, KSCPCR has resolved to not let go of the issue until the principal is suspended. In the summons addressed to Santosh Kumar Mall, commissioner, KVS, the rights body has sought an explanation on the status of Thakur's suspension. 
 
  On February 2, the commission had issued an interim order to immediately suspend the principal. The order was issued after Vasudeva Sharma, director,  , lodged a police complaint alleging that Thakur had been sexually abusing and harassing girl students, particularly of classes 10 and 12 over a three-year period. 
 
  Listing instances, Sharma said women staff had also alleged that Thakur had sexually harassed them by showing them obscene pictures and making statements with sexual innuendos. 
 
  DK Dwivedi, assistant commiss ioner (vigilance), KVS, responded to the allegations, saying, "As per the rules, an accused principal is not allowed to stay near the spot where the incident took place or come in contact with any witness, including students and teachers. Accordingly, we had transferred him to a school in Karwar. Initially, he was asked to go on leave but we revoked it so that he could come back for inquiries. We can't comment on the summons but will abide by the law." 
 
  Commission chairperson Kripa Alva told TOI: "Major sections of   have been completely ignored during the investigation. The principal is not allowed to be in contact with students and teachers or witnesses until proven innocent. We have summoned the KVS commissioner on Friday to explain why the principal was not suspended." 
 
 A senior child rights activist said on condition of anonymity, "Every accused person has the right to get bail under the Pocso Act, but it's the bail conditions what matter. Even if the principal has been released, he must not be allowed to have any contact with students."
 
 
