KOLKATA: It was a strange coincidence on Tuesday night when every time people swapped between sports and news channels, they got to see two different images of  . While he featured in a handset major’s commercial during the ad breaks of the IPL match, the news channels showed footage of him going for an interrogation to the  . The contrasting image left many wondering what would happen to Chatterjee’s professional assignments.

  released was Pratim D Gupta’s “Saheb Bibi Golaam” in August 2016. His next feature film — ‘Khoj’ — was supposed to be released on May 26. However, release of the film has got postponed. “When Vikram was hospitalised, he was unavailable for promotions. We wanted him to recover and get over the trauma,” said director  .
 
 The release has been rescheduled to June 2. With so much being said about Vikram, won’t it impact the film’s release? “If Vikram can’t make it to the promotions, so be it. After all, a film is not about an individual. I won’t postpone its release any further,” he added.
 
 Vikram is also working in a mega serial ‘Ichchhe Nodi’ for which he started shooting on Monday and even went to its sets on Wednesday evening straight from the police station.
 
 Vikram has played a small role in Anik Dutta’s ‘Meghnad Badh Rahasya’. The film is ready for release on July 14. According to producer Firdausul Hasan, “Vikram is one of the characters in the film. I don’t think Vikram’s case will impact the fate of the film. After all, the film is a collective effort. The verdict isn’t out yet and we shouldn’t pronounce him guilty.” Hasan rules out chances of the industry boycotting Vikram in future. “To me, Vikram has come across as a genuine gentleman. He cooperates with the team too. If he is guilty, he will serve his term. If he wants to return, I don’t think he will be boycotted. Even, Salman Khan has been welcomed by the industry despite so many cases against him,” Hasan said.
 
 Meanwhile, there are rumours about Vikram getting axed from the commercial. But, nothing of that sort has yet been disclosed by the handset major. A Mumbai-based celebrity manager, with whom Vikram had discussed his career plans, said: “Vikram wanted to shift back to Mumbai once all his commitments were over in Kolkata. He was aiming for good work in Bollywood. This also involved Sonika.” 
 
