LUCKNOW: After resigning from Rajya Sabha,   chief   is all set to hit the streets, in a desperate bid to revive her political fortunes in UP. Addressing party workers in Delhi, Mayawati announced that she would hold rallies in all divisions of UP starting from Meerut and Saharanpur on September 18. As many as nine rallies have already been lined by the BSP chief till May 18, next year.

 Sources privy to the meeting said Mayawati has decided to hold a rally on the 18th day of every month to coincide with July 18, the day she resigned from Rajya Sabha in protest against not being allowed to speak on the issue of   on Saharanpur. Mayawati is also learnt to have decided to hold meetings assembly constituency-wise in UP from June, next year. Sources said the BSP boss may go to at least 20 assembly constitution to meet her workers. 
 
 This is perhaps the first time Mayawati would reach assembly segments and hold meetings with party functionaries. She has, otherwise, been calling party workers to Lucknow or Delhi for feedback and will accordingly devise a strategy. It was only during the state assembly elections that the BSP supremo criss-crossed the state to reach out to the electorate by addressing as many as 52 rallies.
 
 A senior BSP leader, who was present during the meeting on Sunday, said Mayawati asked party functionary to take on BJP by making the party’s key supporters, especially  , aware of the reason of her resignation from Rajya Sabha. Her attempt to hit the political ground almost two years ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha elections is at a time when she has geared up for an electoral alliance with the Congress and the Samajwadi Party to take on the BJP. “The party functionaries were asked to amalgamate people of all sections of society with the BSP...Sarva Samaj ko jodna hai...,” said a senior BSP functionary, who was present at the meeting. 
 
 Political experts said it was a do-or-die situation for Mayawati who has been staring at political oblivion since her party’s humiliating defeat in 2014 Lok Sabha elections and then in 2017 UP assembly elections. Experts said by hitting the ground, Mayawati plans to create a crucial political space for herself much before the 2019 Lok Sabha elections and project her party as an axis of the proposed grand alliance comprising Congress and the SP. Party sources said Mayawati has been planning to reach out to her supporters personally, ever since her party received a drubbing at the hands of BJP during state assembly elections. Her visit to Saharanpur to meet the victims of violence between two communities was also part of her plan. Mayawati, who is not known to meet her political counterparts, had also attended the lunch organised by Congress president Sonia Gandhi to discuss UPA’s presidential election nominee.
 
