NEW DELHI: A former employee of news and entertainment website,  , has filed an FIR alleging   by company co-founder  , police said on Wednesday.

 In her complaint filed at the Vasant Kunj police station in south Delhi, the ex-employee alleged multiple incidents of sexual misconduct, saying Pandey would touch her inappropriately and send her sexually suggestive videos.
 
 The complainant also alleged that her pleas to the office administration went unheard. DCP (south) Chinmoy Biswal said that the case was under investigation and that no arrests have been made yet.
 
 ScoopWhoop has released a statement saying the complaint was forwarded to the company’s internal complaints committee immediately on receipt and it is being inquired into as per law.
 
 The company also said it was cooperating with the police on the matter. “As an FIR has also been filed separately by the complainant, and the police investigation is ongoing, we are extending full cooperation to the police to conduct a full and fair investigation into the matter,” it said.
 
 Apart from Pandey, two other co-founders were named in the FIR, registered March 27.
 
 Delhi Police has issued a notice to Pandey asking him to join the investigations. Pandey, meanwhile, has moved for anticipatory bail in the additional sessions judge court, which has sought case details from the police. The court has also asked to have a five-day notice served before an arrest is made, police said.
 
 Initially, police had filed a case under section 509 of IPC that deals with “outraging the modesty of a woman”. As per standing orders in such cases, the complainant was taken before a judicial magistrate to record her statement under section 164 CrPC where she narrated the sequence of events. On the basis of this statement, police added sections of sexual harassment (354A) and criminal intimidation (506) to the FIR. Retracting a statement recorded before a magistrate can result in a perjury trial.
 
 The website said, “We work towards ensuring a safe and secure workplace for all our employees and take any complaints of harassment extremely seriously. In line with workplace laws, ScoopWhoop has an internal complaints committee (ICC) which constitutes of two of our most senior and experienced women employees and an independent observer…”
 
 An email sent by ScoopWhoop co-founder   to his employees was leaked online on Wednesday evening. In it, Mishra says he received a “very disturbing” email complaining of sexual misconduct against the three co-founders, including himself.
 
 In the communication, Mishra says he wants to “provide context” to the complaint. He does this by sharing screenshots of emails exchanged between the complainant (her identity masked in all screenshots) and the founding team. Mishra highlights emails and chat transcripts that show the complainant appreciating the work culture at the organisation. He also shared screenshots of a text chat between the complainant and one of the founding team members (accused of abetting harassment) where the conversation is friendly and jovial.
 
 Mishra claims these exchanges took place during the alleged period of harassment. He also says he wasn’t alerted of any sexual impropriety before February 18. “As CEO of the company, it is my responsibility to act on any formal complaints set forth by any employee within the organisation. So the question of protecting Suparn does not arise as there was nothing that was formally brought to my notice even once in all that time,” he says in the email.
 
 “Let me also say this, inspite (sic) of all of this…if there is any merit in the case against anyone in the company, strictest action will be taken,” Mishra adds.
 
 
