NAGPUR: As an ode to the King of Kala — Lord Ganesha, five prominent art forms out of 64 kalas (performing art) were cherry picked and showcased at ‘Ganeshyaag 2017’. In order to rejuvenate a sense of national integrity among society through Kathak, Shri Siddhivinayak Ganesh Mandir committee organized its annual cultural fest at PMJ Vasahat, Narendra Nagar.

 Students of Gadikar Nritya Vidyalaya showcased their talent on Thursday (the fourth day of the week long fest) dedicated to the ancient dance style Kathak.
 
 The event was conducted exclusively for residents of Narendra Nagar since 30 years and it encourages local talent. It is more of a social gathering to strengthen the bond among the people living here, said president Datta Mairal.
 
 Blessings of Ganesha were invoked as artistes performed Ganesh and   to begin the event on an auspicious note. Eight Kathak performances were staged during the show which relied upon seven dance artists and five music instrumentalists.
 
 Host   said, “Rasa is an emotion experienced by the audience created by the facial expression or the Bhava of the actor. The performers presented the nine human moods including veera (heroic), bhayanaka (fearful), hasya (happy) through their moves.”
 
 Staff artist of All India Radio Nasir Khan played the sitar. Devadand Gadikar founder of Gadikar Nritya Vidyalaya played Pakhwaj. Kathak Alankar (masters) holder Vaishali Khapre was among the dancers. The event was jointly directed by Gadikar and Khapre.
 
 Smita Ghude who has been living in the society for 20 years said, “ I look forward to this gathering every year. It gives a platform to people of all age groups to present their skill. Experts of different fields are also invited to inspire the young generation.”
 
 Another resident   said that quality and standard of the show are rising each year. “It nurtures brotherhood and creates a healthy atmosphere,” added Hingnikar. 
 
 The show concluded with Ganpati aarti and Joshi delivered the vote of thanks.
 
 (Reporting by Juveriya Khan)
 
 
