CHENNAI: The DMK on Wednesday joined the chorus seeking return of   island from Sri Lanka. The AIADMK and its late leader J Jayalalithaa had blamed the DMK for letting the island be ceded to Sri Lanka.

 In a letter to external affairs minister  , DMK working president M K   condemned the killing of Rameswaram fishermen K Birtjo by the Sri Lankan navy. “I seek immediate steps to retrieve Katchatheevu to restore the traditional rights of the Indian fishermen and to stop the inhuman killings by the Sri Lankan navy. Retrieval of Katchatheevu is the only solution,” said Stalin.
 
 The killing has happened in total violation of the agreements arrived at the tripartite talks so far held by fishermen of both the countries. 
 
 “Britjo was only 21 years old and had colourful dreams. His death on March 6 by Sri Lankan navy thrashed his dreams. On the fateful day, the fishermen ventured into the sea only for their livelihood. The government of Sri Lanka, which so far arrested and seized their boats, has now taken the extreme and illegal step of killing our fisherman and grievously injuring accompanying fishermen in an unprovoked firing,” said Stalin.
 
 Stating that people, especially fishermen, are seething with anger over the killing, Stalin said there was strong feeling and displeasure that the Centre was not forthcoming actively to protect the lives of fishermen. 
 
 “Though Sri Lanka agreed in principle not to harm Indian fishermen, it has shown scant respect to its commitment made to our great Nation. I believe that the Indian Coast Guard has the moral duty to ensure the safety of Indian fishermen going for fishing. It is shocking that despite the presence of mighty Indian Navy and Indian Coast Guard, this brutal killing has taken place,” he said.
 
 “I request you to effectively intervene immediately in the interest of fishermen, condemn Sri Lanka in unequivocal terms that such killings of Indian fishermen will never be tolerated, summon the envoy and warn him of dire consequences if such atrocities and killings continue – with all the diplomatic powers of your office,” said Stalin.
 
 
