HYDERABAD: Traders and shop owners encroaching upon footpaths will now   and a fine, with officials realising that a fine alone is not an adequate deterrent.

 Sending a strong message that encroachments will not be tolerated, police along with   officials decided that traders and shop owners will now face up to one-month jail and a fine of up to Rs 5,000 if found guilty. Previously, a mere Rs 1,000 used to be imposed.
 
 As is the case with drink driving, where motorists know they will be sent to prison if they are booked, officials hope to rein in encroachers too by banking on the "certainty of punishment" rather than degree of punishment. 
 
 "Police from the traffic wing, law and order and officials of GHMC are closely working with the judiciary to decide the   depending upon the extent of space encroached upon the footpaths,” deputy commissioner of police (Traffic) A V Ranganath told TOI. “The punishment would be more for repeat violators,” he said. 
 
 On the lines of drink-driving cases, video recorded evidence of encroachments will also be submitted to court that will decide the quantum of punishment. “A software will be uploaded in hand-held tabs to be carried by the officers from civic body and police to book cases as per the space occupied by squatters on the pavements," Ranganath said.
 
 In the first phase, officials will confine the drive to only permanent structures put up by owners of shops and traders such as in  , where wholesale dealers and merchants have encroached upon footpaths. In the second phase, hawkers and petty traders will be covered. They will be allowed to carry on business as per the hawkers’ policy during certain hours and on certain roads, but no permanent structures will be allowed. In the third phase, cops will focus on shifting electricity poles and transformers to the extreme corner of pavements to provide clear walking area for pedestrians.
 
 Though special drives have been conducted multiple times in the last few years to free the city footpaths of encroachments, squatters have stormed back on to footpaths within a short time of being evicted. This has been because cases have been booked against them under section 39 (b) of city police Act with a maximum penalty of Rs 1,000. As a result, there some traders and shop owners have paid such fines on 10 or more occasions.
 
