NEW DELHI: Australian offspinner   took four wickets to rock the Indian batting line-up to leave the hosts in a spot of bother at 248/6 at stumps on the second day of the fourth Test at the HPCA Stadium in Dharamsala on Sunday.

 Lyon, who took eight wickets on the first day of the second Test in Bangalore, and got just one wicket in the third Test in Ranchi, dismissed  , Karun Nair, Ajinkya Rahane and Ravichandran Ashwin after tea to turn the match slightly in Australia's favour. Though the presence of Wriddhiman Saha and Ravindra Jadeja would still give India some hope of overhauling the Australian first innings lead, the first session on the third day will be crucial as the Aussie pacers will make the new ball talk.
 
 Lyon first had Pujara (57) caught by Peter Handscomb at forward short leg in the first over after tea, then ensured that Nair's poor form with the bat continues having him caught by Matthew Wade at short leg. Australian captain   returned the compliment when he took a fine catch at first slip to dismiss Rahane (46) off Lyon and then Ashwin was trapped plumb in front.
 
 Lyon broke the back of the Indian middle order and was ably supported by pacers   and   who bowled with fire and Steve O'Keefe hardly gave anything away.
 
 Earlier, lending solidity and displaying calmness, Pujara hit a fine half-century to take the Indian first innings to 153/2 at tea.
 
 Pujara hit his 15th fifty in the company of Rahane after rush of blood got the better of opener  . Pujara not only tired the Aussie bowlers out by defending, but also rotated the strike to keep the scorecard ticking and brought up his fifty with a four between mid-on and midwicket off Nathan Lyon.
 
 Rahul was a picture of concentration and except for the chance that was missed by Matt Renshaw at first slip earlier in the innings, he didn't fall for anything that the Aussies threw at him and got to his fifth fifty of the series. But Pat Cummins kept peppering Rahul with bouncers and followed them up with some words. It went on and on till Rahul's patience finally gave way and he tried to pull a short-pitched delivery from well outside off-stump but the ball hit the toe end of the bat and flew to David Warner at cover. Rahul hit a six and 9 fours in his 60-run knock.
 
 Rahul and Pujara had displayed dogged determination against some high-quality fast bowling from the Australians in the first session of the day.
 
 Test cricket was at its very best in the first session on the second day. Making good use of the conditions, Aussie pacers tightened their stranglehold and gave nothing away and the Indians too displayed extreme technical skill and concentration to survive in the middle. Knowing that there is no   to walk in at number four, the onus was on the Indian top order to come good. And the Indian openers Rahul and   did well initially against whatever the Aussie pacers Hazlewood and Cummins bowled at them.
 
 That was until Vijay made that small error in judgment. Vijay was tested well outside his off-stump by both Hazlewood and Cummins and the Indian opener did leave a lot of deliveries. But Hazlewood kept probing the 'corridor of uncertainty' relentlessly and followed it up with some stares at Vijay and finally succeeded in inducing an edge from the bat off a good length delivery that deviated enough to take the edge for Matthew Wade to take the catch.
 
 Cummins ran in hard and bowled at pace, mixing it up and was unlucky that Rahul's edge eluded Matt Renshaw at first slip in the over after Vijay's dismissal. Cummins' full length delivery took the edge and grazed Renshaw's fingertips at first slip. The sheer pace on Cummins' delivery was too quick for both Rahul and Renshaw. Cummins then went wide of the crease and bowled a bouncer that kept following Rahul who had to be quick to sway out of the way and had to bend his back and drop his hands to let the ball go.
 
 Rahul found an able ally in the last Test double centurion Pujara at the other end who was well prepared to slog it out in the middle, leaving and blocking with utmost ease. Rahul brought up the Indian fifty in the 21st over with a superb on drive against Cummins that went racing past the boundary.
 
 
 India 248/6 (Rahul 60, Pujara 57; Lyon 4/67) trail Australia (300 all out) by 52 runs at stumps on Day 2
 
