You can see a confident, happy, content   now. But I was not like this some months ago. I was battling depression. It took a therapist’s help, and now, I have completely recovered from it,” says actress  , who made her debut with Ajith-starrer Aarambam, and is currently basking in the success of  . The actress opens up about how she struggled with depression, and how she successfully came out of it. “To those who are battling depression, I would like to say, ‘You are not alone, you are not the first person and you are not the last person on earth. There are many with you.’ If at least one person who is reading this article comes out and faces depression boldly, I’d be grateful,” begins Akshara.

 “It all started with me feeling tired all the time,” she says. “I didn’t feel like eat anything for many days. I used to feel tired the whole day. I was not interested in dressing up and going out. I didn’t even feel like getting out of my bed in the morning. I used to be awake till 3am and I’d get up at two in the afternoon. I spent innumerable sleepless nights. I was disinterested in things around me. Some part of me was not feeling good. I totally lost my energy, and this went on for three to four months. There was no actual reason for my depression, as I have a great family, busy career and supportive friends, but still, I was depressed. I tried to help myself and I wanted to keep myself busy. So I went to the US and took up a course and spent a few months there. I learnt a dance form to battle it out. I was trying all possible things to help myself and come out of it. I also did a few films and kept myself busy. I would work, and I would be very busy throughout the day, but still, at night when I hit the bed, it was the same tired feeling. I could not fight myself anymore, and one day, I broke down. I sat and cried to for many hours. Then I decided I must seek a therapist’s help. I met Dr Shyam Bhat and he and his team of doctors helped me come out of depression. Initially, I was apprehensive about meeting a therapist, but now, I feel that that was the best thing I did and there is no shame in seeking help.”
 
 How did the therapy help her? “I took treatment for six months. The therapist will not sit and listen to what all you blabber like they show in films. Actually, they will help you to deal with your thoughts. I was also under medication. I am not one of the top actresses in  , but now I feel content and happy about my work. This feeling of contentment — I got from the therapy. I learnt to handle negativity better after the treatment. Slowly, I started feeling better, and I was able to finally say good bye to that ‘tiresome’ feeling. When you realise that you have depression, you try to keep yourself busy. That’s what I did. I kept myself busy with shootings. I was wrong. There was no actor who was busier than   (of   film Mrs Doubtfire fame), who committed suicide out of depression. So, what I am trying to say is, don’t be deceived by your performance at work. You may work confidently, and still feel depressed. So, we have to come out of the shell and get it treated. 
 
 Now, I don’t consider myself a weak person for talking about it. I feel strong enough, and proud to openly talk about it. Speak up for yourself! I have seen FB statuses of ‘down with viral fever’ and stuff like that. Come on, put up statuses when you are feeling low, too. I understood what was wrong with me, I corrected it by seeking professional help, and here I am, a happy person now. I am immune to negative thoughts now. I realized that nothing is bigger than life, not even depression.” 
 
