HYDERABAD: It turned out to be a night of missed chances for  . The table-toppers failed to capitalise on the half-chances that came their way and the bowlers wilted under the pressure.   put their attack to the sword and that more or less decided the outcome of the game.

 “If the batsman is in good form and goes on continuously hitting fours and sixes, it will obviously be a bit hard to ball to him as he is set and he knows the wicket and the pace which the ball is coming on to the bat etc. Sometimes, it is very difficult in such a condition but you have to be prepared and ready for it,” said  , who was the most economical bowler for the visitors. “Obviously he (Warner) has played beautifully. He used his chances and got a hundred. He is a world class batsman and he played beautifully.”
 
 Chris Woakes messed up a catch early in the innings and that proved costly for his side. “Can’t say much but obviously if (Chris) Woakes had taken that catch the match would have taken a different turn. They wouldn’t have got that many runs on the board. Woakes is a world-class bowler and fielder. He has taken many good catches so it’s not fair to blame him. Sometimes it happens. Even I can field and take brilliant catches but can miss an odd one. He made a brave effort but he somehow failed to judge the catch and missed it. This happens in cricket - one day you are brilliant and another day you can miss things.”
 
 Umesh said conceding too many runs hurt their cause. “Actually it was too many. Every one of us gave away too many runs. We didn’t get early wickets and therefore couldn’t put pressure on them. In IPL, we need early wickets.
 
 “Actually we are well prepared. We have already played against them in Kolkata and we got him (Warner) early in that game but this wicket is different. We know that but we just lagged a bit at the start and gave away too many runs. We missed the catch too and after that Warner didn’t give any chance to any bowler. He played a fantastic innings today,” Umesh added.
 
 About the Champions Trophy, he said: “I haven’t thought about the Champions Trophy. I am continuously playing matches and have no time to think about it. I try to bring in the required changes to be a more effective bowler with every game. If I can do well in the IPL, I could get a chance to play in the Champions Trophy so my focus right now is to do well for the team.”
 
 
