CHENNAI: In the wake of the ongoing tug-of-war between the   factions for securing the ‘two leaves’ symbol of the AIADMK, the election commission may have no other option than freezing the symbol for the time being, feel experts including a former chief election commissioner. The   symbol was frozen way back in 1989 too, when Jayalalithaa and Janaki factions fought for it.

 For now, the warring factions would have to contest the R K Nagar by-election on other symbols and they may also end up fighting a long-drawn legal battle for the symbol.
 
 The party is facing a ticklish situation as majority of the MPs and MLAs support the Sasikala faction, but the party treasurer (OPS) and presidium chairman (E Madhusdhanan) are in the opposite camp. Giving another twist to the tussle, Sasikala has expelled both of them from the party. Going by the party bylaw rule 20 (5), in the absence of the general secretary, the senior office bearers appointed by the general secretary should carry out the duties of the party chief including assigning of party symbol to its candidates.
 
 Since Sasikala’s appointment as interim general secretary and T T V Dinakaran’s appointment as deputy general secretary are being challenged before the EC on the ground that they were not done in compliance with the party bylaw, the EC ruling on the party symbol could hinge on what stand it takes on the two appointments.
 
 The commission sanctions the registration of a party based on its bylaws and allots symbol after the party fulfills certain conditions. If there are lapses, the commission recalls the symbol, but the registration continues. “The Supreme Court directive is that you can register and not deregister. The commission can withdraw the symbol, if there is a persistent violation of the party’s own rules under which it was registered,” former chief election commissioner N Gopalaswami said. The commission may not be able to take a conclusive decision on the symbol immediately as there are too many issues to be resolved, he said.
 
 If the symbol is frozen, the factions will have to choose one of the non-reserved symbols allotted to independents. And this is why both the camps have been making repeated visits to the commission’s headquarters with petitions and rejoinders in the last few days. The leaders in the OPS faction say that affidavits were being collected from party office bearers and elected representatives, supporting the claim that the party symbol belongs to them. The Sasikala camp has already secured similar affidavits from MLAs and MPs.
 
 K M Vijayan, a constitutional expert, said there was no general secretary in the AIADMK at present in accordance with its bylaws. Jayalalithaa’s thumb impression was obtained for Aravakurichi, Thanjavur and Thiruparankundram by-polls when she was hospitalized. “As things stand today, after Jayalalithaa’s demise, there is no authorized and competent person to allot symbol,” Vijayan said.
 
 Even though party leader M Thambidurai has said that there would be election for the post of general secretary after the budget session, the party bylaw does not prescribe the mechanism to hold such an election. Rule 20 (2) only states that the general secretary should be elected by the primary members of the party. “It could even be on the lines of the US presidential election, with each hamlet having a booth,” said a senior AIADMK leader. Meanwhile, M G Devasahayam of Forum of Electoral Integrity demanded that the election commission should freeze the symbol.
 
