KHAWASPUR(SOLAPUR): Kashibai Dhondi Yadav has never got her war-widow pension. In fact, for 13 years after her soldier husband was killed in World War II, she did not get a pension at all. 

 In 1958, Kashibai (85) began receiving an ordinary pension of Rs 8 per month, which due to revisions over the years went up to the present Rs 8,000. Now, after five decades, she is set to get her dues. But it’s still not a war-widow pension; it’s a special family pension which is equivalent to a war-widow pension. This will raise her monthly support to around Rs 24,000.
 
 Lance Naik Joti Dhondi Yadav of the 3/5 Maratha Light Infantry (MLI) was barely 23 when he was killed on the Western front (Africa) on January 6, 1945. Kashibai, who was married as a minor, does not even remember her wedding date and, after all these years, has trouble recalling the little time they spent together. 
 
 “I only remember that he had gone to fight the war under the ‘Angrez’ (British) and never returned. We were only informed that he had died on the battlefield,” she told TOI.
 
 Kashibai’s plight came to light after the Bank of India branch in Atpadi, Sangli, from where she drew her ordinary pension, told her family in January last year that she would not get her money unless she furnished her husband’s death certificate.
 
  
  
 
 After the bank stopped her pension, her adopted son, Pandit Ramu Yadav, began doing the rounds of various offices. Pandit, who is illiterate, had to take the help of ex-serviceman Sharad Dere from the village to get the death certificate from the MLI regimental centre.
 
 Dere, a retired havildar from the Army’s  , said, “It was a daunting task to get the certificate from the centre since it was a very old record. We luckily got it and submitted it to the bank in October.”
 
 Kashibai briefly received a bulk pension amount of Rs 32,000. The very next month, the bank held back her pension again saying it had been stopped by the Union government. 
 
 This time, Pandit approached the   (ZSWO) of Solapur, which is 125km from the village, and submitted all documents. The ZSWO referred the case to the   (SWDM), headquartered in Pune, in January this year.
 
 When TOI called up Prabhu Dayal Meena, secretary of the Department of Ex-Servicemen Welfare (DESW) in the ministry of defence, a few days back, he asked for details about Kashibai’s case. On Thursday, he told TOI, “We have verified all the documents and taken up the matter with the Principal Controller of Defence Accounts (Pension), Allahabad. The department has revised Kashibai’s pension pay order and changed its status to a special family pension. She will get her renewed pension as well as all the arrears.”
 
 Group Captain Suhas Phatak (retd), in-charge of the pension cell at the DESW, drove to the village to meet Kashibai and took all the required documents from her. Phatak, who has dealt with thousands of pension-related cases since 2008, told TOI, “After assessing the documents, I knew that the PCDA(P) had goofed by not revising her pension right from 1958. She is entitled to get either battle casualties pension or special family pension, right from the first pay commission till the seventh pay commission, including One Rank One Pension (OROP).”
 
 Phatak said that since this was a battle casualty case, the MLI regimental centre should have pursued the matter till the family got justice. When her husband died, the only thing that reached Kashibai was a trunk and some clothes, which she has preserved in his memory. Kashibai went to live with her parents in Dighinje, about 5km from Khawaspur, for more than a decade. In 1955, she returned to Khawaspur and adopted Pandit whose father had also fought in the second World War. She worked as a labourer in nearby villages to earn a living.
 
