GURUGRAM: Angry homebuyers, who had booked flats in   in Sector 37D over a decade ago, protested in front of the developer’s office in Sector 44 on Sunday for not getting possession of flats until now.

 They were met with stiff resistance from the management, who called police to stop protesters from entering the office premises. Investors have already paid more than 90% of the amount, but are yet to get possession of their homes. All they have been getting instead are empty assurances from the developer, they said.
 
 “Gullible buyers were shown dreams of an integrated township with world class infrastructure and excellent connectivity with Gurgaon and Delhi. But a decade later, we’re still waiting for our flats,” said  , president of Ramprastha City Welfare Association. He said over the years, they have met the developer several times, only to return with empty promises of fresh dates but no delivery.
 
 Ramprastha City was launched in 2008 in Sector 37D along   expressway. Between 2008 and 2011, the developer launched five different group housing projects — View, Edge, Atrium, Skyz and Rise. With around 2,000 flats in total, View, Atrium and Edge were launched in 2009, with a 2012 delivery date. Skyz and Rise, with around 1,000 flats, were launched in 2012 and 2013, respectively, with deliveries promised by 2014 and 2015, respectively. Not a single project has been delivered so far, and don’t appear anywhere near completion.
 
 Dheeraj Babbar, a Skyz buyer, said, “I curse the day I booked a flat with this builder. All my friends who had booked flats elsewhere at the same time have moved into theirs. The pace at which construction is going on here, I don’t expect delivery even in 2019.”
 
 Most buyers have already paid 85-90% of the value. They are now bearing the burden of EMI as well as house rent. They had also filed a case with National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission in 2015, and continue to await justice from the courts. 
 
 “The developer is not even ready to talk to buyers. Nothing is being done on the ground,” said  , another buyer, adding they have been urging the government to take strict action against the developer to protect homebuyers’ interests. The developer refused to speak on the issue with TOI, and instead criticised the media for reporting the protest. 
 
 
