Actor Prateik Babbar is not new to Hyderabad. The 30-year-old has been in the city many a time in the past on professional assignments. But recently, the My Friend Pinto star has found a rather personal reason to frequent the land of Nizams. “A few days back my mother’s (late  ) first cousin, my aunt, moved to Hyderabad with her family. Thus, now I have a personal reason to be here. I am excited about getting to meet them whenever I am here and this time they had come to watch the play as well,” says Prateik smiling.
In a freewheeling chat with Hyderabad Times, the   actor spoke about why it is special to be in Hyderabad during Ramzan, what kept him away from movie for three years and more... 
 
 You have come to Hyderabad after a long time. How do you plan to spend these two days here?
 Oh, it feels great. In fact, before coming here, I had already told my gym trainer that I’m going to take two cheat days here and gorge on the yummy local food. After all it’s the holy month of Ramzaan and I’m going to eat bohat sara biryani; Hyderabadi dum biryani you know. Ab aya hoon toh thodi masti toh banti hai. Also,   is a very close friend, so I am excited to catch up with him. I like Hyderabad as a city because it’s very clean. 
 
 You seem to be doing a lot of theatre off late...
 Yeah, that’s true. I was never into theatre until last year. My step mother  , who’s among the famous theatre artistes we have in India, would always egg me on to join theatre. In fact, she’s been asking me since I did my debut in Jaane Tu... Ya Jaane Na. But I got busy with the promotions and later got tied up with some more movie projects.
 It was last year, when I had some time in hand that I did my first play. So what had happened was I had gone to meet director   for a film where he introduced me to director Jeff Goldberg. Anurag also suggested me to take proper training in acting as that would polish my skills and give more intensity to my performances. So it was Jeff who pushed me into theatre. I got convinced and it’s been close to a year that I’ve been acting in plays. I’ve done more than 16 shows till date and all thanks to my guru Jeff, I’m just loving it!
 
 You have been away from the silver screen for a while now. Is it a conscious decision to abandon  ?
 I was away from films for three years because I was going through some tough times in my personal life. I was depressed due to several things that happened in 2015 — I lost my grandmother, who was like a mother to me and my strongest support. Also my failed relationship (with  ) and many other things kept me away from everything in life. It was a very tough time for me, but I’m now back and things are picking up gradually. I’ve been reaching out to many filmmakers and producers and thankfully a lot of them have shown interest and have offered me good roles. So you’ll see me doing a lot of good work from now on and there are a lot of things in the pipeline. 
 They say what doesn’t kill you makes you stronger. Is Prateik mentally a stronger person today, the one who doesn’t get into shell when the going gets tough?
 Yes, my past has made me a stronger person today. I’ve seen many ups and downs in life, but now I’m a very calm and composed person. I’ve become more hungry — hungry for good work, good characters, and powerful scripts; actually now I am hungry for everything good. I was and still am a very emotional person, but now I don’t run away from situations rather face them; guess this quality in imbibed in me from my mother. 
 
 After your failed relationship with Amy Jackson, is Prateik today single and ready to mingle...
 I’m very much single and have no time for love or relationships. I’m giving all my time to myself and my work. I don’t even want to get ‘settled’ you know. If I’ll ever be settled or feel satisfied in life, I’ll be a dead scared man. I want to keep getting up every morning and think of doing something new. I don’t want to live a mundane life.
 
