UDHAGAMANDALAM: Tea stocks are piling up at warehouses in Coonoor and Coimbatore as buyers turned out in less numbers to auction centres in the past two weeks due to the delay in switching over to the   in compliance with GST. 

 The sale of tea at auction centres through   was around only 10% last week compared to any normal week. About 50% of tea stock was sold the previous week. However, tea board officials say the issue will be sorted out in a day or two. 
 
 Meanwhile, bought-leaf factories are holding back at least 80% of their production as the sale at auction centres last week was very sluggish. 
 
 E-auction takes place in Coonoor on every Thursday and Friday, while it is on every Wednesday in Coimbatore. 
 
 B Manohar, owner of a bought-leaf factory told TOI, “Our production worth Rs 25 lakh is lying at the warehouse as it was not sold at the auction centre last week. Not many buyers turned out due to new billing system at the auction centres. The system is entirely new.” He added, “If the issue is not sorted out, then we will be in a soup and as a chain reaction the small farmers will be hit too.” 
 
 According to Tea Board (south) records, around 15 lakh kg of tea come to the   centre every week, while Coimbatore auction centre get around 10 lakh kg of tea for sale. 
 
 C Paulrasu, executive director, Tea Board (south) told TOI, “Of course, there was sluggishness in sale of tea last week at auction centres in Coonoor and Coimbatore. The auction centres saw only 10% of the normal sale. Apart from e-auction, there is a sale called auto-lot sale. Considering that transaction as well, we could say around 50% of the lot came for sale was sold out.”
 
 Paulrasu said, “Earlier, the billing system as per VAT was two kinds - one as ‘broker bill’ and another ‘buyer bill’. While ‘broker bill’ used to be consolidated one, ‘buyer bill’ would be of  .”
 
 “Now the buyers are asking for consolidated bills for convenience of accounting. But the sellers prefer individual transaction bills,” said Paulrasu, adding, “We are having talks with all the stakeholders. In a day or two the issue will be sorted out. It is a teething problem in the system with the GST is being introduced.”
 
 According to the official, Cochin auction centre saw 90% of sale as usual last week as the billing was on the basis of consolidation method. E-auction for tea was introduced in 2009.
 
