MUMBAI:  , the ally in the state government and part of the coalition at the Centre, protested against the BJP government and Prime Minister   for their incapability to curb  , especially the daily rising prices of   and diesel. A series of   was staged across the city and some parts of Maharashtra on Saturday morning. 

 The protests were planned by the high command of the party and everyone from MP, MLAs, corporators participated in that. Many of them were also detained by the police. 
 
  The Sena also threatened to launch a nation-wide stir if fuel prices were not brought down. Neelam Gorhe, Sena’s spokesperson said that they have time and again raised the issue in private with the government and when the government didn’t pay heed, they took to the streets.
 
 “By being a part of the government doesn’t make us their bonded labour, we are an independent party.We are still accountable to our voters,” said Gorhe, who participated in the protest at Currey Road.
 
 She also said, “The public is still waiting for Acche Din on the basis of which the government was elected. The government is just a mute spectator in the entire situation currently,” said Gorhe.
 
 Yuva Sena chief Aaditya Thackeray participated in the rally at Kalanagar and said “Students are unhappy, farmer loan waiver is still only a promise. There is the rising fuel prices. People are saying that ‘Bure din’ were better.” 
 
 Sena’s   member Arvind Sawant, who took part in the protests at the CSMT, said “Modi should go through the speeches he delivered before becoming the PM, when the fuel prices went up during the Congress rule,” Sawant said. In a veiled attack on Union minister Alphons Kannanthanam, who had defended the fuel price hike, Sawant said, “One of their ministers shamelessly insults the people and rubs salt on their wounds. We want to know if this is the ‘acche din’ promised by them.” Meanwhile, criticising the Sena over its protests, BJP leader Ashish Shelar said, “These people came to power due to PM Modi ji. They are sitting in power, yet raising slogans against Modi ji.”
 
 
