   initiated on Wednesday the process to extradite from Dubai the operative of Pakistan’s spy agency ISI who had engineered, through subversion by Indian links, two major train accidents in India last year. Over 150 passengers were killed and 200 injured in the train accidents near Kanpur.
 
  The move to extradite  , a Nepalese, follows the arrest of six persons in Motihari and Nepal, who were working at his instance. Huda operated through fellow countrymen   alias Baba Giri, Shambhu Giri and Mujahir Ansari, who were arrested by Nepal police.
  
  Brij in turn gave Rs 3 lakh to three Bihar criminals,  ,   and  , for engineering the Indore-Patna Express and Sealdah-Ajmer Express accidents. The three Bihar criminals had confessed before cops that they had worked for an ISI agent in Nepal.
  
  Inspector Arun Kumar Kushwaha, who is posted at SP’s office in Bara, Nepal, told TOI on phone: “We have initiated the process for extradition of Shamshul Huda, who was handling Brij. Huda went to Dubai two years back and was in touch with Brij and Mujahir Ansari at Bara.”
  
  Kushwaha, who is the investigating officer in the case, said Huda had asked Brij and Mujahir to carry out multiple explosions on railway tracks in India. “Huda had been in touch with the duo over phone for approximately three years and he had transferred Rs12 lakh into Brij’s bank account,” Kushwaha said, adding that Nepal police had tracked Huda’s calls from Dubai to the duo. “Brij and Mujahir in turn passed the order to the Indian cell,” the cop said. In all, six persons have been named in the FIR lodged at Bara.
  
  Meanwhile, Brij, who was shot while he was trying to escape the police dragnet, was taken from Bara to Kathmandu for treatment. “Brij, clad in a sari, tried to dodge the raiding team, but he was shot in his leg. He is undergoing treatment in police custody,” Kushwaha said. The information extracted from the arrested trio was shared with police in India, resulting in the arrest of Patel, Paswan and Yadav from Motihari, Kushwaha added.
  
  The three Bihar criminals were also involved in allegedly placing a cooker bomb on the railway track near Ghorasahan station in Bihar on October 1. The bomb was detected and defused. Bihar police confirmed that two more persons from East Chmaparan, Deepak Ram (18) and his uncle Arun Ram (27), were involved in the Ghorasahan case.
  
  Kushwaha said that Deepak and Arun were killed in Nepal for their failure to trigger the explosions at Ghorasahan. Brij had confessed to the cops that their hands and legs were tied and he had even shot the video of the killing and sent the same to Huda, Kushwaha added. Police are now looking for the video.
  
  Meanwhile, a team of National Investigation Agency (NIA) reached Nepal on Wednesday to interrogate the arrested Nepalese.
