Gurgaon: Water shortage continued to haunt more than one lakh residents of the city for the third consecutive day on Monday even as senior officials of   had earlier claimed that the water supply, disrupted on Saturday because of the shifting of a pipeline from  , would be resumed by Monday.

 The relocation of the pipeline for the construction of an   forced abrupt stoppage of water supply on Saturday afternoon to about 1.2 lakh residents in various parts of the city including DLF phases 1-4, Sushant Lok 1 and 3 and sectors 27, 28, 30, 31, 40, 42, 43, 44, 45 and some parts of Sector 46. TOI reported on Sunday that most residents, were caught unawares. Many of them claimed they had not received even a drop of water in their taps.
 
 On Monday, while residents in DLF phases 1-4, and sectors 28, 29, 30 and 42 received water supply for less than an hour, taps remained dry in sectors 27, 31, 40, 43, 45 and 46.
 
 Some residents alleged unequal distribution of water. “The water supply was resumed on Monday evening. However, some residents are still complaining about shortage of water. Residents in areas close to the master pipeline (Sector 16, Iffco Chowk) got adequate water, but those living in localities far from the master pipeline didn’t get enough water. I think it will still take some time for the situation to turn normal,” said Brijmohan Mehta, a resident of DLF Phase 4. He said that groundwater from registered borewells was also supplied to the area.
 
 Harsh, a member of the Sector 28 RWA, said the residents were still relying on stored water as they were not sure if they would get sufficient water supply in the coming days. “After the supply was resumed for a short duration, we stocked up for the next two-three days. We are covered for now but if the supply remains inadequate, we’ll be in trouble,” he said.
 
 This is the second time within a month that the residents of these localities are up against a water crisis. Ruchika, a resident of Sector 46, said, “We didn’t anticipate a   in winter. However, it is happening for the second time in the past one month. We had a similar crisis when the supply was disrupted between January 26 and 28. The question remains when will the construction of underpass be over and how long will this water crisis last.”
 
 Meanwhile, a senior Huda official assured that the pipeline would be shifted within this month. 
 
 “We are aiming to complete the relocation process by February-end so that residents don’t have to face a water crisis in summer. However, residents should understand that development work is also important and it will only cause a minor inconvenience to the residents,” the Huda official said, requesting anonymity.
 
 
