MUMBAI: A day ahead of the Mumbai University’s July 31   to declare results, only 26,000   were assessed on Sunday. As of Sunday evening, the varsity is yet to announce   for 323 courses. Of the 153 results that the university has announced, many courses do not have more than 200 students each. Even as political outfits have demanded that   Sanjay Deshmukh step down, college principals feel there must be pressure to ensure the results are announced at the earliest, keeping the interest of students in mind. 

 With only a few thousand papers assessed on Sunday, the university has over 3 lakh papers yet to be  . While it was expected that the arts, science and technology results would meet the deadline set by the governor, 21,000, 4,032 and 3,637 papers are yet to be assessed in the streams respectively. The largest chunk of unevaluated papers 2.64 lakh continues to remain in the commerce stream. 
 
 Despite it being a Sunday, 939 examiners reported for assessment work. Former controller of examination, Dinesh Bhonde, too was roped in to help out with assessment as he has experience with the online process. “Work is in progress and we will be able to declare several more results by late night,” MA Khan, registrar of the university, told TOI on Sunday 
 
 The principal of a prominent South Mumbai college said, “There can be deliberation and debate on whether we appoint the best people to run the university but currently the focus must be students who want to pursue higher education. If these delays were expected, the higher authorities should have communicated it to at least other universities in the country to give provisional admission to students on the basis of the last semester results. But, right now, students have been left in the lurch.” 
 
 Another college principal said asking the VC to step down may not be the best idea. “If the VC steps down now, it will be the easiest way out for him. There should, in fact, be pressure to declare the results at the earliest and then an appropriate inquiry and action could be initiated against those responsible,” said the principal. 
 
 Crucial meets rescheduled
 
  had to reschedule Sunday’s meetings of the management and academic council and senate, which were required to pass the perspective plan, to Monday. July 31 is also the deadline for the varsity to submit its perspective plan to the state government. The perspective plan looks at overall academic and infrastructural expansion of the university by outlining the number of colleges and streams required in various regions. Amid the assessment chaos, the university had called for urgent meetings to pass the plan on Sunday. “The perspective plan meeting happened and it has been finalized by the board of deans but the management council and senate meetings could not be held as many did not turn up, it being a Sunday. All meetings have been rescheduled to Monday evening,” said MA Khan, registrar.
 
