ROPAR:   Rakesh Kumar on Wednesday wrote to the police to initiate appropriate action against those   in and around Anandpur Sahib and   of  . This has been done following submission of a detailed report by a tehsildar, who on March 3 had raided two ‘goonda tax’ centres on the Anandpur Sahib-Garhshankar and Khuhi-Khera village roads.

 The district administration had recently ordered raids after Punjab joint chief electoral officer Hargunjit Kaur had asked them look into a complaint filed by a local lawyer and RTI activist Dinesh Chadha, who had alleged that the mining mafia was operating these centres in Ropar. Mining mafia had set up these centres on roads used used by truckers to ferry mined sand and gravel. These centres were being operated from shacks.
 
 Kumar told TOI that he had received a report from tehsildar Manbir Singh Dhillon, who had mentioned that during the raids they had recovered some documents from one such centre on the Anandpur Sahib-Garhshankar road and had recommended that the matter needed to be scrutinized.
 
 The team found several documents revealing details of monetary transactions and applications moved by some gurdwaras for waiving the ‘goonda tax’ from Anandpur Sahib-Garhshankar centre, which had been confiscated by the police. Nobody was present at these centres when the police team reached the spot. However, the raiding team had met some of the truckers who had gone there to pay the ‘goonda tax.’
 
 Anandpur Sahib DSP Randhir Singh said he had received a letter from the office of the SDM. “We have constituted a team, which has asked tehsildar Manbir Singh Dhillon and the local mining officials to provide us with details as to what has been going on in the area and on the basis of this further action would be taken in this regard,” he said. 
 
 Meanwhile, Chadha, who is also a member of AAP manifesto committee, said these centres had been operational in the area for the past 10 years. “AAP has already announced to constitute a special investigation team (SIT) to investigate the matter, which has also been incorporated in the election manifesto. Once AAP forms the government in the state, we will make certain that the guilty are booked and put behind bars,” he maintained.
 
 
