For working women like Sharmila Mohan, a mother of two and  , the new initiative by the   mission called ‘Green Bytes’ is like a shot in the arm. It is nothing but a kit containing raw cut fruits for `35 to enable that they satiate their hunger and do not miss out on vital nutrients.
“I come from Pothencode and often have to skip my breakfast after completing the house work and helping the kids get ready for school. The recently launched ‘Green Bytes’ stall comes as a relief for us as we get to consume a healthy diet. Some of us have even started to use it as our lunch menu. Buying snacks from the canteen every morning is not only unhealthy but also an added expense.”
 Akhila Chandran, another Secretariat staffer who is pregnant, is another who swears by the fruit bowl. “They use organic fruits and they removed papaya and pineapple considering my pregnancy. It is a healthy initiative.”
  was launched in the city last week in order to inculcate a healthy diet among working people, says  . “We focus on the ‘safe to eat’ concept through Kudumbashree with this project. We found space near the Kudumbashree canteen at the first floor of secretariat annex building for this. It will be made possible through Kudumbashree’s joint liability groups (JLGs) which number around 50,000. 
 They have been cultivating organic fruits and vegetables, tuber crops and paddy fields. Except for apple and orange, other fruits and vegetables are procured from these groups.”
 The stall that opens at 11 am has many takers. The fruit bowl has pieces of kiwi, pineapple, orange, apple, pomegranate, mango and papaya. The stalls also provide vegetable cut pieces too, says Rageela F, one of the stall keepers. “The response is good as many of the women employees buy not only fruit bowls but also vegetables needed for avial and sambar. Plantain stem and bitter gourd are also available here at a reasonable price. We have also received a request to provide a salad set which will include cucumber, carrot, onion and tomato,” adds Rageela.
 Harikishore says they have a plan to expand the project to include other districts also besides adding new types. “For kids, we will mix honey with mango pieces and papaya to get them interested in it. Also after consulting a dietician, we will include fruit packs for 
 people with various health ailments including diabetes”. 
 
