VADODARA: Call it teething troubles or  , but the students of the newly formed   (SGGU) are suffering for no fault of theirs. While the second semester exams at the university have begun, around 18,000 students studying at the university are yet to get the results of the first semester.

 The university was formed in 2015 fulfilling a nearly 40-years-old demand. It was expected that it would make things easier for the students and colleges in the central Gujarat. But quite on the contrary, they have been facing a harrowing time on the front of exams. Take the case of Prachi Trivedi, who is taking the second semester exams of Bachelor of Commerce degree course at the university, but she is yet to receive her first semester results. “I did not know what subjects to focus on in the second semester as I was not aware of my first semester marks. We were told that we would get our results after the second semester examinations,” she said.
 
 Sources in the university said that the papers of the first semester exams had been evaluated, but the process of tabulation and preparing the results was still pending. The university has roped in Gujarat Info-Petro Ltd to set up the systems for the preparation of the results. In the meantime, it has decided that students who were admitted in the first semester last year will not be held in any semester even if they do not clear the exams. A part of the problem lies in the fact that the university was given hardly any staff when it started operations. No staffers were deputed or transferred from the   out of which SGGU was carved out. SGGU caters to five districts in central Gujarat and has 107 colleges affiliated to it.
 
 SGGU vice chancellor   said that the university had been granted six staffers some time back and more have been sought. “The government is positive towards our demands. We have also advertised the comptroller of examinations post on two occasions. The first time, there were no respondents to the advertisement and so we have advertised the post again,” he said. Padaliya said that the issue were temporary and will soon be ironed out. “The results of the current second   may not take much time. We are also trying to ensure a fool proof system where errors in results are minimised,” he said.
 
 
