NEW DELHI: Over 2,000 students of   will be part of a pilot project in which they would be taught science and mathematics on tablets. Initiated by the HRD ministry to enhance learning in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) subjects, the students will not only access the reading material, but will also submit their assignments and reports and get evaluated online. They will not have to carry books to school every day. The final proposal is likely to be submitted to the ministry by the   on Thursday. 

 According to a senior HRD ministry official, the pilot project is to start from July-August, 2017. "The idea is to supplement the knowledge the students will get from books in the STEM subjects using technology. Apart from accessing the textbooks online through ePathshala, the digital textbooks and resource material of NCERT, the students will enhance their learning experience through animation, videos etc in the subjects of science and mathematics," said the official.
 
 The pilot project will be either for students of Class IX or XI, which the ministry will decide after submitting the proposal.
 
 "Apart from e-learning and doing away with the practice of carrying books to school, even the assignments and evaluation for the work done by the students will be done online," said the official. 
 
 Over 2,000 students from KVs across 25 regions will be selected for the pilot run. Each region will have at least one school where the initiative will be launched. Based on the experience and outcome, the ministry will take a call on the project in 2018.
 
 KVS is already preparing the training module for the teachers who will be part of the pilot project. The tablets will be provided by the ministry free of cost to the students and a student gets to retain it for a period of two to four years. 
 
 At present, the Sangathan is working on firewall so that the tablets are not misused by students. It is also working on the learning enhancement platform, which is to give supplementary content beyond NCERT textbooks.
 
