KOLKATA: Dada akta ticket hobe? This was the cry of the day, 24 hours before KKR's last and possibly the most crucial match of the season at the   on Saturday.

 From students and senior executives to businessmen and cops, everyone kept texting and calling their friends and relatives, little connected with the Cricket Association of Bengal (CAB) or any government agencies like KMC or Kolkata Police, asking them for that “one ticket“.
 
 “I received over 35 calls since Thursday and over hundred text and WhatsApp messages.Some are even ready to pay a premium for complimentary tickets. But I told them I had none. I know most of them did not believe me but that's the truth,“ said a senior CAB official.
 
 A senior police officer at Lalbazar had stopped taking calls from relatives who after some small talks were switching to just one topic ­ “that one ticket“. “How can I make them understand I don't hoard tickets? Moreover, I myself don't have tickets for the match.I may have to be there to maintain law and order but I don't have tickets to even take my family,“ said the officer.
 
 Unlike BCCI matches, CAB barely gets 15% of tickets for IPL matches. A bulk of tickets is distributed by the KKR management among its sponsors and also to the rival team.
 
 “I tried to buy tickets but all of them were sold out. Then I tried to get some complimentary tickets from several sources but I failed. Finally, one of my friend managed two complimentary tickets for Rs 2,500 each,“ said  , aKKR fan from Behala.
 
 With no more tickets to the stadium available, the party points are expecting a full house. Tipsy Bull on   has already received bookings.“here will also be several ga mes and prizes to be won,“ said owner Nitish Saraf.
 
 Places like Underground, Phoenix and Myx will also broadcast the match on big screens. The Palladian Lounge in Bengal Chamber Building on NS Road will screen the match for its guests. DJ Kunal, the official DJ for the match, is gearing up for the big match too. “T Shah Rukh Khan himself is going to be at the ground. I have made list of his tracks,“ he said.
 
