MUMBAI: Admissions in 40 private medical and dental colleges in the state are stalled after their managements have sought permission to increase their fees from what was prescribed by the Fee Regulatory Authority (FRA). Confusion in medical admissions continues to mar the process, as the Association of Managements of Unaided Private Medical and Dental Colleges (AMUPMDC) wrote to the state government asking it not to allot any students till its demands are met.Admissions have been postponed till further orders. The private colleges may move court if they fail to get relief.

 On Friday, the Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER) released the first selection list of students in government, civic-run colleges and a Wardha-based institute.The list was released after the petition in the   was dismissed on Thursday, making students, who have done their class X from outside the state but have a domicile certificate, eligible. The selection list for private medical and dental colleges, however, is held back.
 
 “The colleges want to charge fees closer to the figures cited by deemed universities. Their contention is that the Government of India has allowed deemed colleges to charge fees decided by their own fee regulatory authority , which in some ca ses is above Rs 20 lakh, but in their case the state is not allowing them to even charge 'reasonable fees'. They have claimed it is difficult to run their institutes if they charge Rs 7-9 lakh as annual fees,“ said director, DMER, Pravin  .
 
 P A  , from the AMUPMDC, said they do not intend to charge excess fees.“The Maharashtra Private and Unaided Educational Institutions (Regulation of Fees and Admissions) Act, 2015, itself gi ves provisions to differentiate institutions as rural and urban. A college in Mumbai should be treated differently as compared to a college in   or Dhule,“ said Inamdar.“We want the FRA, the government and representatives of our association to discuss and find a solution to our problem,“ he added.
 
 Parents, however, are upset about the sudden decision to stall the process in private colleges. “It is a shocking decision.The DMER and parents have to abide by the FRA-approved fee structure. Minutes of meetings are made public. Letters like the one given by the association should not be entertained by the government at this stage.No admission process should be stalled, jeopardizing careers of medical aspirants,“ said a letter addressed by the parents to all the state authorities.
 
 Shingare said the state is negotiating with the colleges and will convince them to continue discussions but not hold up the admission process. A state government official said private colleges also demanded that fees in the institutional quota, which allows them to charge up to five times the regular fees, should be changed.
 
