PATNA: After making efforts for more than five years, Bihar is likely to get two additional   battalions soon for anti-Maoist operations in the state. With this addition, the state will have nine CRPF battalions.

 Sources said the   (MHA) has asked the CRPF (Bihar sector) to submit a fact-finding inquiry report for the feasibility and use of the two additional battalions in the state. CRPF sources said the state home department had written a letter to the MHA last month for the two additional battalions. 
 
 Sources said the state would submit the report within a week.
 
 “We want two additional battalions for the Maoists’ core areas where central forces are either not present or deployed in small numbers,” said a senior CRPF official.
 
 CRPF sources said the two additional CRPF battalions for deployment in Bihar for anti-Maoist operations were given in 2012, but they were diverted to Dhanbad in   and Sukma in Chhattisgarh because of the tussle between two top officials posted in Patna and New Delhi.
 
 Sources said state home department principal secretary Amir Subhani wrote a letter to the MHA on June 7 this year for the two battalions to consist six active companies of 2000 security personnel.
 
 Sources said the call for deployment of additional battalions was taken at an apex level unified command meeting presided over by chief secretary Anjani Kumar Singh in April this year.
 
 At present, three battalions of Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) and five regular and two CoBRA (Commando Battalion for Resolute Action) battalions of CRPF are deployed for anti-Maoist operations in the state.
 
 “The additional battalion, once given to Bihar, will be deployed in deep forest areas at Chakarbandha in Gaya and Bhimbandh in Munger and other districts like Jamui, Aurangabad and Lakhisarai,” sources said, adding that these districts have been mentioned by Subhani in his letter to the MHA.
 
 The forces would help in reinforcing the joint operations being regularly conducted in the dense forest in bordering areas of Giridih, Koderma, Chatra and Palamu of Jharkhand.
 
 
