KOLKATA: When the entire country has adopted the BS-IV emission standard following the   ban on sale and registration of  , Kolkata still continues with  . This helps   pass the emission tests and the city is also deprived of clean air it deserves.

 The Bharat Stage-V emission norm is skipped across 13 major cities in India, as the government has decided to leapfrog from BS-IV to BS-VI directly by April 1, 2020.
 
 From April 1, only BS-IV vehicles can be registered in India, yet Kolkata auto-emission testing centres (AETCs) are following pre-BS-III standard emission. The BS-IV emission standard was introduced in Kolkata in 2012, but the city's AETCs continue with BS-II emission tests as majority of them failed to upgrade their technology to measure the finer quantity of different pollutants in the vehicle exhaust.
 
 BS-II was introduced in the city in 2001. There was hardly any pressure from the government to force them adopt such technological leap. “If this is the situation in Kolkata, just think of rest of Bengal where BS-IV will be prevalent from April 1,“ said Somendra Mohan Ghosh, an auto-emission expert.
 
 “A stringent emission norm for automobiles alone can make a little difference in reducing the pollution level of ambient air. Proper implementation of the emission norms and improvement of the city's driving condition determine a lot about the qualitative change of ambient air. But the enforcement is badly missing in Kolkata,“ said Sudipto Battacharya of Saviour and Friend of Environment (SAFE). Why didn't transport department enforce the rule in AETCs? The amendment of the Central Motor Vehicles Rules (CMVR) were notified in 2012. An officer of the public vehicles department (PVD), however, said, “We got to know about the notification in 2014.“
 
 A transport department officer said, “The regional transport authorities are supposed to make necessary changes according to amendments. But off late, we, at the transport department, have started monitoring the issues. We came to know that the amendment was not incorporated in the system. So, we will now be doing it at war footing.“ Auto Emission Testers' Association (AETA) general secretary Apu Pal Chowdhury said, “We knew that we need to make some additional investment for upgrading to the new system.We are now waiting for recommendations by IIT-Kharagpur, that's studying the current facilities of AETCs.“people at a time. The act of crossing such bridges is an acknowledgement of a collective need over a vast period of time. One makes it not for oneself but for future generations.
 
