NAGPUR: According to doctors, in about 90% cases the causes of   or   is not known despite the fact that a lot of research is being done in the field.

 Physician Dr S D Suryawanshi said, “There is a visible growth in the number of hypertension cases, but what’s more worrying is that we can’t come out with a particular cause behind the condition in most cases.” He added, “Hypertension is classified as two types — Essential Hypertension (EH) and Secondary Hypertension (SH). SH is mainly caused due to adrenal or hormonal disorder, endocrine tumour and even kidney diseases. It is mostly seen affecting youngsters.”
 
 On the other hand, EH, which accounts for about 90% of all cases, shows no symptom. Because of its asymptomatic nature, it’s mostly detected at an advanced stage. It is usually seen in people above 30 years, he added. “Right now, the world is trying to find out what causes this sort of hypertension. EH could be multi-factorial, it is hard to come up with one cause,” he said.
 
 “In general, obese people, people with family history of hypertension and pregnant women have potential to catch hypertension and thus, need to be alert and have their blood pressure monitored regularly,” he added.
 
 Interventional cardiologist Dr Manish Juneja said, “There is also a steep rise in youngsters getting hypertension. We recently operated a 14-year-old with hypertension; the boy had a kidney disease. Mostly the youngsters are seen catching SH rather than EH.”
 
 Talking about the dangers in pregnancy due to hypertension,   ( ) president Dr Chaitanya Shembekar said, “Rising incidence of Pregnancy Induced Hypertension (PIH) is a cause of concern. It not only does affect health of the woman, it is devastating to the new born.”
 
 The factors leading to hypertension in pregnancy could be a pregnancy planned too early (below 20 years) or too late (beyond 35 years), a lady with history of PCOS, a lady expecting twins and obesity. A weight gain of 10kg during pregnancy is normal, but 25kg or above is not. Such patients should be extremely alert about hypertension, he added.
 
 “A pregnant woman usually has PIH after 20 weeks. If it goes beyond control, it causes ‘pre-eclampsia’, when the body shows symptoms of  . They could be headache, vomiting, swelling on feet, blurring of vision, and abdominal pain that is often misdiagnosed as acidity,” Dr Shembekar added.
 
 He said, “If such signs are ignored, it will lead to eclampsia where the patient gets seizures. In such cases, blood supply to the baby is hampered, leading to restriction in growth. At times, the blood supply becomes so less that you have to deliver the baby early.”
 
 
