Ahmedabad: On day two of the international conference on   management education and practice ‘Exploring Connections across Disciplines & Stakeholders’, organized by Centre for Heritage Management (CHM), Ahmedabad University (AU), a plenary session encompassing speakers such as Rohit Jigyasu, president of ICOMOS India executive committee (2014-16), Ashoke Chatterjee, member of AU advisory committee, Debashish Nayak, director of CHM, Amareswar Galla, chief curator, Amaravathi Heritage Town, AP, PKV Nair, deputy general manager of AMC heritage cell and P K Ghosh, chairman of Gujarat Heritage Conservation Committee. Here are some of the ideas discussed by the members to take the city’s World Heritage Site status further.

 Need to involve locals: The experts said that more often than not there is a huge gap between those deciding the policy about heritage area and those living in those areas. They said that the World Heritage City status should not bog them down or just be the prison of dos and don’ts but an opportunity to see their property in a new light and be part of the pride. 
 
 Target youths: The panellists said that the youth are the driving force behind any successful campaigns, including that for heritage. Citing examples from across the world including cities of Quebec and Dubrovnik, the experts said that they have the right to choose the way of life and there have been instances where the karaoke bars and malls have been established right outside the Heritage Site boundaries so that the youths from the protected areas can also have the similar standard of living.
 
 Conserve precious 
 
 heritage: Just getting the tag is not enough, there is also dire need to conserve it. The experts pointed out that at the moment about 30% of the total properties are utilized by those who have no connection with the property per se as it is used for renting out accommodations or as warehouses. More often than not, it results decay and irreparable damage. A teak and stone house built a century ago might take over Rs 1 crore for faithful reconstruction.
 
 Document as continuous process: The dossier and documents submitted at the local and international bodies is not end of the process, rather it is just the beginning. The experts said that the city needs to re-discover its stories and faithful history while documenting the tangible and intangible heritage time and again. The heritage is more than Outstanding Universal Value (OUV), they added.
 
 
