GHAZIABAD:  , the unauthorised colony where a  , killing five persons and injuring five others on Monday night, has no civic infrastructure. 

 With an inquiry being initiated into the house collapse, district authorities are passing the buck on who is responsible for the area, which lacks basic amenities like drinking water and sewerage.
 
 Senior administration officers and police teams visited the area late on Monday night to take stock of the situation.
 
 The district administration said efforts were being made to secure compensation from the government for the kin of the people who were killed. “Since the model code of conduct for elections is in place in the state, a representation will be made to the Election Commission to allow us to release Rs 30,000 in cash for each of the deceased from the Family Benefit Scheme. However, this scheme does not have the provision of compensation for injured people,” SDM (Loni) Prem Ranjan Singh told TOI.
 
 Singh said investigations have so far revealed that the house had been constructed without any pillars and its walls were four inches thick. “It seems there was seepage in the walls, which could have weakened the structure,” he said.
 
 TOI did a recce of Rahat Enclave on Tuesday and found most houses to have been constructed with four-inch walls. There is no piped water supply to the area, which comes under Ward No. 12 of  , the local municipal authority. The civic body has not laid stormwater drains or sewerage lines in the area either. The power department has, however, installed electricity meters in all houses of the area.
 
 According to the district administration, the settlement with a population of about 6,000, is marked as   in government records. Plots of land in the area had been handed over by the government to those families whose male members had undergone vasectomy operations during the sterilisation campaign of the central government in 1976. Officials said these plots were subsequently fragmented and sold to others by the original landowners.
 
 “It is the prerogative of the local civic body to provide facilities and ensure that buildings are constructed in keeping with the bylaws. It is also the role of the local civic body to issue warnings and notices when buildings are constructed without necessary clearances. Our role is limited to approving maps of houses,” GDA vice-chairman Vijay Yadav said.
 
 Loni Nagar Palika Parishad officials said surveys have been undertaken in the past in the area to provide basic civic infrastructure in the area. “Houses have mushroomed in the area over the past two decades without any definite plan in place. The authorities never developed any scheme for the area even though nearby areas were developed by the Housing Board, the GDA and the UPSIDC, among others,” said Manoj Dhama, chairman of Loni Nagar Palika Parishad.
 
 
