GURGAON: Nearly 5,000 lives are lost in Haryana to road accidents each year. In Gurgaon, the number of accidents continues to rise — there were 420 deaths reported in 1,201 accidents in 2016, compared to 435 deaths in 1,142 accidents in 2015. And speeding has been the biggest reason behind crashes and fatalities on the city’s roads.

 In an effort to combat these numbers, the   has suggested a solution other cities are trying — using   optical illusion street paintings that act as virtual speed breakers to slow down traffic. It has written to MCG and Huda, asking them to study it before implementing the same in Gurgaon.
 
 The virtual speed breakers had gone viral after two artists painted them on Ahmedabad roads in 2015. Drivers see these and tend to slow down as they look like raised protrusions, although the road is completely flat.
 
 In the national capital, New Delhi Municipal Council had put up virtual speed breakers at   and Rajaji Marg in 2016. But the concept has not made much of a difference. There are also debates if introduction of fake speed bumps can lead to hazardous driving behaviour even at real speed bumps. Another argument is that motorists over time know a 3D bump is not real and it doesn’t make a difference to the regular commuters. 
 
 Government officials, however, said such an innovative idea can be experimented. “The 3D speed breakers will create an optical illusion to ensure people slow down their vehicles. If the trial attempt is a success, we may collaborate with the agencies concerned to set up such speed breakers across the city,” said an official of the urban local bodies (ULB) department.
 
 Officials said the council has called a meeting of all departments to discuss reasons and solution to traffic jams and check road accidents. Council members say around 90% of speed breakers on the city’s roads are not as per India Road Congress (IRC) standards.
 
 “The flaw in design of speed breakers on city roads led to accidents in which fatalities happen. Gurgaon and other cities should study the plan and run it on identified roads as a pilot project,” said a member.
 
 Initially, it was Union road transport and highways minister Nitin Gadkari who had mooted this idea to curb the menace of rash driving. 
 
 “We are trying out 3D paintings used as virtual speed breakers to avoid unnecessary requirements of speed breakers,” he tweeted last year.
 
 
