Gurgaon: A study has found that some 76% of woman in   are suffering from  , which is affecting their overall health. Doctors say that while around five years ago, it was a concern for women above 35 years, the minimum age has now dipped to 21 years. Apart from lack of exposure to sunlight, crash diets too are a reason behind this hidden health hazard, experts say.

 The study, conducted by  , took into account the vitamin D tests of around 2,200 women in the age group of 24 to 91 years. It found that even teenagers as young as 15 years do not have adequate levels of Vitamin D.
 
 “Our survey showed that 1,676 women out of 2,201 in the age group of 24-91 years had inadequate vitamin D levels. Apart from this, 241 out of 297 girls between one to 24 years of age were also found to have vitamin D levels below normal,” said Dr Neeraj Bishnoi, facility director of Paras Hospitals.
 
 “Vitamin D is critical for good bones and teeth health, and its deficiency can be linked to several health problems, including heart disease, depression and in some cases, even cancer,” he added.
 
 According to doctors, vitamin D promotes the absorption of calcium in the gut and aids in maintaining adequate calcium and phosphate concentrations to enable normal mineralisation in the bones. 
 
 It also impacts the blood pressure, immunity, mood, brain function, and protects from cancer through modulation of cell growth. Without sufficient vitamin D, bones become thin and brittle and women suffer from osteoporosis by the time they reach menopause.
 
 “If you are suffering from unexplained bone pain and muscle weakness, chances are that you have vitamin D deficiency. The reason being the reduced exposure to sun due to more indoor lifestyle, widespread prevalence of sunscreen usage among urban women to avoid being tanned, and traditional Indian dressing habits of women wearing full body-covered clothes,” said Dr Abhishek Gaurav, consultant (internal medicine) at VPS Rockland Hospital in Gurgaon.
 
 Health experts say the change in diet pattern, too, is responsible for low levels of vitamin D. 
 
 A majority of women these days are off fat and dairy products as they aim for weight loss, but vitamin D is a fat soluble vitamin that is stored in the liver and fatty tissues.
 
 “Similarly, animal protein too is vital in producing it as the body makes most of the vitamin D on its own, unlike other vitamins which can be sourced from the supplements,” said Dr Nupur Gupta, senior consultant (gynaecology), Paras Hospitals. 
 
 “Around 15 to 20% of woman’s diet should be fat, be it butter, ghee etc. if they want better bones as they reach menopause,” she added.
 
 
