Last week, Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath banned chewing of paan and gutka and ordered installation of biometric machines in all government offices across the state. Following the CM's orders, government offices in Noida have quickly started taking action. The   in Sector 6, on Wednesday, decided to install biometric machines and paint its paan and gutka-stained walls.

  
  Within a week of CM Yogi Adityanath's orders, the RTO in Sector 32 (earlier this week, above, and the 'spring cleaning' on Wednesday, below) has started painting over its paan-stained walls and having the office swept
 
 
 
  
  (BCCL/ Priyanka Narula)
 
 
 
 Boards saying, 'Paan, gutka, tambaku khaana mana hai' have been put up on the walls at the authority office by the public health department of Noida. The boards, highlighting the importance of maintaining cleanliness in the office premises, read, 'Praadhikaran parisar ko swachh rakhna hum sabka kartavya hai' (It is our collective duty to maintain the cleanliness and upkeep of the premises of the authority office). A   official says, "Pehle toh phir bhi jaise taise log yahan paan-gutka lete thay. Ab toh koi nahin kha sakta. Darr bhi lagta hai. Jo khayega, uski naukri par baat aa jayegi."
 
 
  
  Posters and stickers warning visitors and employees against having paan and gutka have been put up on the walls of the Noida Authority Office (BCCL/ Priyanka Narula)
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  The Noida Authority office in Sector 6 has seen over 20 biometric machines installed, and the hasty installation of boards and notices that emphasize the paan-gutka ban and the 'collective responsibility' of cleanliness (BCCL/ Priyanka Narula)
 
 
  
 On March 27, 20 biometric machines were installed at the Noida Authority office.  , deputy CEO, Noida Authority, tells us, "After the installation of these machines, the attendance percentage of employees has certainly improved. A leverage of 15 minutes is given to our employees, who are supposed to report at 9.30am. Anyone reporting after 9.45am is marked absent for the day. The employees can't leave before 5pm." The feeding of data/impressions into the biometric machines is almost done, and the data of about 400 employees has been recorded in the machine, says Saumya. "Out of around 400 people whose impressions have been recorded, 380-385 employees reported on time on Tuesday," he adds. While the Noida Authority has taken swift action, the effect of the CM's instructions is yet to be seen in other government offices in the city, including the Jal Board office in Sector 37, Arun Vihar, and  , where no work has been done yet. 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  The work of painting the walls of the RTO ( ) and deep cleaning of the office has also started. RTO officials in Sector 32 tell us that they haven't received any orders for installation of biometric machines at their office. Rachna Yaduvanshi, ARTO (Administration), says, "So far, we have not received any orders for installing biometric machines. We are waiting to see how the process will be implemented. We are yet to figure out if these machines will be provided to us, or if we need to purchase them. We haven't received any orders from the headquarters. As far as attendance in the office is concerned, everyone is supposed to reach office by 10am and leave by 5am. We were already very punctual as we have to deal with the public." 
 
  
  Just like at the Noida Authority office, whitewashing of walls and sweeping has also started at the RTO (Regional Transport Office) (BCCL/ Priyanka Narula)
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  Hasty 'spring cleaning' is in progress at the RTO in Sector 32
 
  Steps towards making it a 'swachh office' have already begun. Just like in the Noida Authority office, whitewashing of the paan-stained RTO walls has also begun. Deep cleaning of the entire office, including sweeping, dusting and arranging of files, is being done. Special machines for deep cleaning will also be used to clean the premises, we are told.
 
 
