Visakhapatnam: Allotment of land in Visakha Institute of Medical Sciences ( ) premises for the central government-run   (ESI) Hospital to operate till its new building is constructed has led to a conflict.

 Vizag North   Vishnu Kumar Raju said due to VIMS management’s reluctance to part with the 65,000 sq ft of space, ESI might have to function from a private hospital premises and VIMS would lose out on Rs 40 lakh revenue collected as rent every month. However, VIMS authorities have said they are okay to provide space for ESI’s out-patient department, but there is no need for a separate in-patient unit as VIMS already has one.
 
 Currently, the   building is in a dilapidated state and a new building would be constructed at Sheelanagar in the next three-four years. 
 
 Speaking to TOI, MLA Vishnu Kumar Raju said, “There’s around 4 lakh sq ft of land lying un-utilised in VIMS premises. Out of this, if 65,000 sq ft can be given on rent to the 500-bed ESI Hospital, it will benefit both the government institutes. On Saturday, I spoke to chief minister   who said there should not be any problem in renting out the VIMS premises to ESI till their new building is ready. If VIMS is not ready to part with the land,   will have to start functioning from the premises of a private hospital in Health City, which will be a loss to the government.”
 
 “If ESI Hospital shifts to a private hospital premises, VIMS will lose Rs 40 lakh per month as rent as well as patients who could have been referred from ESI Hospital. It will benefit the patients as well as the central and state government entities. With the revenue earned per month, VIMS can generated their own funds for equipment, manpower or infrastructure and will not have to depend on the government,” said the MLA, who had earlier spoken to health minister   and MP K Hari Babu in this regard.
 
 When contacted, VIMS director Dr CV Rao said, “ESI Hospital has given letters with such proposals to the government, but neither the government nor ESI has spoken to us officially. We have heard that the government has accepted their proposals in principle. Since, both are government hospitals, there’s no question of any vested private interests involved and will be beneficial for both in terms of patients and revenue. ESI Hospital can commence their outpatient department (OPD) in our premises with their 20 doctors. However, VIMS has a built-up capacity for 500 beds. So, there’s no need for a separate in-patient block for ESI Hospital and their patients can be treated in our hospital itself.”
 
 The MLA countered, “It should be left to ESI Hospital to utilise the premises it as they want. With the chief minister giving the go-ahead to utilise VIMS premises, shifting of ESI Hospital to any private hospital premises should be stopped for the benefit of public as well as for the government-run hospitals.”
 
 State medical commissioner of ESI Corporation Dr K Imanuel said, “We had floated tenders four times for land for our ESI Hospital in Vizag, but thrice the tender failed. After the fourth time, the decision is pending with the headquarters in Delhi. In the meantime, we were informed by the state health department about vacant land in VIMS premises. However, the final decision is yet to be taken as to where we can start operating till the new ESI Hospital building comes up.” 
 
 
