JAIPUR: A 64-year-old Kamal (name changed) suffered stroke recently and hospitalised for the treatment. Later, when the tests were conducted, he was found suffering from   (OSA), which is one of the major causes of stroke.

 With obesity, the cases of OSA are constantly being reported in the city. Over the past few years, private hospitals in the city have introduced the polysomnography (PSG) test, which requires a night stay at a hospital. In the test, a machine monitors breathing, heart rate and brain waves. Now, in city also, the test can be done in the comfort of your bedroom.
 
 “Obstructive sleep apnea is a silent killer. People think that snoring is ordinary and ignore it. They take it in lighter mode. But, in reality, it is life-threatening too,” Dr Virendra Singh, former superintendent of   and respiratory diseases expert said.
 
 Dr Singh said, in sleep apnea, oxygen supply to the brain is interrupted, which causes other health related problems, including blood pressure and other heart-related problems.
 
 OSA leads to disturbed sleep which can have a detrimental effect on the overall health and well-being. Health experts claimed that there is a strong relation between sleep apnea, obesity and diabetes & blood pressure issues (metabolic syndrome) which can cause serious health complications. Studies suggest that they are intertwined in a way that each can cause the other and the occurrence of one can significantly worsen the other.
 
 Dr   chief consultant pulmonologist (  & Allergy & ICU specialist at a private hosptial, said, “When a person experiences regular episodes of obstruction of upper airway during sleep, then he/she is said to be suffering from OSA. The syndrome is associated with snoring, disturbed sleep and feeling sleepy during the day.”
 
 Dr Yaduvanshi, who is also head of sleep lab in a private hospital said that there are treatment available for OSA which include life style modification, using a CPAP machine which prevents the collapse of the airway when a person breathes in by increasing air pressure in the throat, palatoglossus surgery and one is melatonin spray.
 
 He said that the people talk about personal hygiene but now there is a need to encourage sleep hygiene, which include complete eight hours sleep, going to bed early, cleaning the bed, keeping away from electronic gadgets so that sleep should not be interrupted.
 
 According to a study published in the   (IJMR), prevalence of metabolic syndrome in OSA patients was as high as 79% compared to 48% in non-OSA patients.
 
 Dr S K Sharma, a diabetologist said, “In sleep apnea, a patient’s oxygen level falls during sleep and there is a sympathetic surge which leads to micro arousal of the brain. The arousal causes a disturbance in the sleep- deep sleep to light sleep. The surge results in a rise in the blood sugar level, thus, increasing susceptibility to diabetes and other risk factors. This is one of the causes for the link between OSA and metabolic syndrome.”
 
 
 
 
 According to   —
 
 Obstructive sleep apnea syndrome is a clinical disorder marked by frequent pauses in breathing during sleep usually accompanied by loud snoring.
 
 —These pauses cut off the oxygen supply to your body for a few seconds and halt the removal of carbon dioxide
 
 —As a result of this, your brain briefly wakes you up, re-opens the airways and re-starts breathing
 
 —This can occur many times during the night and makes proper sleep impossible
 
 —During the day you may experience excessive daytime sleepiness, difficulty in concentrating or headaches. At night, snoring is the most common feature
 
