HYDERABAD: Midway the monsoon season, all is not well on the water front. The reservoirs in Karnataka are full, but due to lack of inflows in the catchment areas, water is not flowing downstream to Telangana and  . As a result, the reservoirs in the two Telugu states are empty. 

 By the end of July, there should have been inflows reaching Srisailam, which has not happened as yet. This does not augur well for the crops as well as the drinking water requirement of the two states. Karnataka has started releasing a little water from Narayanpur, but until the water reaches Jurala and then Srisailam, one cannot assess the situation, say irrigation officials. 
 
 As of Saturday, Nagarjunsagar, the principal supplier of drinking water to Hyderabad, had a water level of 501ft, which is 9 feet below the minimum draw down level of 510ft. More than one crore people living in Hyderabad, Ranga Reddy and Nalgonda districts depend on this reservoir for their daily drinking water needs.
 
 The crop season in Telangana is getting delayed beyond August with Karnataka holding water at Almatti and Narayanpur till both the dams reach Full Reservoir Level (FRL). The Almatti and Narayanapur dams are almost full and the water is being diverted to canals before being released downstream. 
 
 Almatti dam, with a capacity of 129 tmcft, has already received 121 tmcft and is fast nearing its FRL of 1,705ft. At present, the water is hovering around 1,704ft. The situation is similar at Narayanpur. The dam, with a storage capacity of 37.6 tmcft, now has 36.3 tmcft and is set to reach its FRL of 1,615ft by Sunday.
 
 However, inflows into the Tungabhadra dam in Karnataka continue to be unimpressive. The dam is receiving about 13,300 cusecs per day, which is being diverted to the canals. The 100 tmcft dam has 37 tmcft of water. 
 
 Usually, the Tungabhadra is in spate in July and the surplus water reaches Srisailam the same month. However, this time it has not happened. 
 
 "Srisailam and Nagarjunsagar reservoirs, which hold the key for the water needs of the two Telugu states, have received fresh water amounting to only 2.75 tmcft together this season, but they require over 390 tmcft to reach their FRL," officials said.
 
 Srisailam and Nagarjunsagar, which can together hold 550 tmcft, are almost empty with the water levels below the minimum draw levels. Unless there are fresh inflows, there is no chance of releasing water downstream. 
 
 Following requests from the two states to meet their drinking water needs, 2.5 tmcft water is being released from Srisailam to Nagarjunsagar by the Krishna River Management Board. 
 
 This has caused heartburn among Rayalaseema farmers, who depend on Pothyreddipadu to get water to Telugu Ganga, Galeru Nagari, Handri Neeva and Nippula Vagu. Unless the level at Srisailam dam reaches 854ft against the FRL of 885ft, water cannot be diverted to Rayalaseema through the Pothireddypadu head regulator and lift schemes.
 
 This apart, farmers in the 25 lakh acres that the Nagarjunsagar irrigates in two Telangana districts and three AP districts are still waiting for water. For AP, diversion of Godavari water to Krishna through Pattiseema project has provided succour to farmers in the Krishna delta. The farmers there, who earlier used to wait for water to be released from Almatti dam to Srisailam, are now getting water for the sowing season from the Pattiseema project.
 
 "We will write to Karnataka to release water to Telangana projects without waiting for FRL at their reservoirs. Unless, they do so, our projects will not get water at the crucial time of Kharif season,"   Joshi, special chief secretary of irrigation, told TOI.
 
 On Saturday, water was released from Narayanpur reservoir in small quantities. It will take three days to reach Telangana. The   have opened two gates of Narayanpur to let out 2,600 cusecs, mostly to give water to Raichur   The water will also reach Jurala and from there to Srisailam in a week, if releases continue. 
 
