PATIALA: The special task force (STF), set up to stop the   in the state, has set its focus on foreign nationals who are operating from safe houses in Delhi to spread narcotics across Punjab.

 STF chief  , who was given a free hand by chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh to have a crackdown on the   in Punjab, is building up a social campaign against the illicit business in the state by roping in religious and social organizations. The police officials working in the background have already started breaking down the nexus involved in dispersal of narcotics in Punjab.
 
 Senior police officials, who are a part of the ongoing investigations into the drug trade, told TOI that over the last few days, they had busted a few supply chains in some of the important cities and towns of Punjab that have ultimately led them to some Nigerian nationals who were operating from Delhi.
 
 “As of today, no drugs are flowing from inside the state as was being perceived earlier. Now these are coming from outside,” a police officer said.
 
 While the STF is yet to make arrests in cases related to drugs, the officials confided that the state police have held five persons, including a Nigerian woman, from Delhi and her associate. Another Nigerian is under interrogation of Punjab Police and a   woman supplier and her associate were also on the radar, the official said.
 
 Meanwhile, STF chief Sidhu said they had specific instructions from the CM who wanted them to go after the “big fish”. “We have laid down the direction in which police would act to end the drug menace and break the nexus at the earliest. The teams are working on specific intelligence inputs to curb the flow of narcotics into the state,” he said.
 
 Sidhu was in Patiala to hold a closed door meeting with police officials of Patiala range. A senior police official said they would take respective embassies of the foreign nationals into their loop while fighting the drugs trade in Punjab. He said some foreign nationals, who were under the scanner, had overstayed in the country and were running the trade with the backing of some international drug cartels that made inroads into the country.
 
 When contacted, Patiala range inspector general of police (IGP) A S Rai said it would be inevitable for the police to eradicate drugs from the state with active participation of the people.
 
