The snatching of a   from the hands of his pet parent while they were out for a walk in the afternoon, right outside their gated society a few days ago, has stunned Gurgaon’s pet-owning community. Though the city’s pet owners are now quite familiar with incidents of dogs being stolen, such a brazen ‘dog-napping’ in broad daylight has still come as a shock.

 On Tuesday afternoon, Hobbes, who was out on a walk with 80-year-old Wing Commander BR Mehta (retd) outside their home in Vatika City on Sohna Road, was kidnapped by a man in his early 20s. He asked him if he could walk the dog, and when Mehta did not agree, he snatched the leash from him and started walking very fast with the dog. "My father thought that he was just a very enthusiastic man who just wanted to walk the dog. He was behind him as he entered one of the gardens near the colony, but he flipped through the bushes. He signalled to my father that he would be coming back from the other side, but as he waited for him on the other side, the youth was nowhere to be seen," says Supriya Chawla, BR Mehta’s daughter- in-law.
 
  
  'Any pet which is a pedigree is in danger of being stolen': Gurgaon’s   with her pet Saddam (BCCL)
 
 The number of pets stolen in Gurgaon is rising, but most pet-owners still don’t seek the help of the police as many are unaware of the law. In contrast, in Delhi, where pets are stolen in high numbers, pet owners are quick to lodge police complaints. Most stolen dogs are expensive breeds like St Bernards and Tibetan Mastiffs, or the friendly kind like Labradors. Animal activists in Gurgaon say that they are stolen for illegal breeding, sometimes sold for money, and, in some cases, they are also stolen by known persons who want to get rid of the pet.
 
 
 
 Amit Chaudhery, president,   (PFA), Gurgaon, explains, "There is a huge market for stolen dogs in Gurgaon. Many times, people want to buy a grown-up dog but they never ask the source where they come from. There is a nexus between dog stealing and breeding too. Every week in Gurgaon, we stick up posters of a dog that’s been stolen. Any pet which is a pedigree is in danger of being stolen, and most of these cases happen when a woman, old man or a servant is walking the dog. This is because there is an illegal market of pedigree dogs in areas around and in Gurgaon. Fads also decide which dogs are stolen more often. Till the last few years, the pug was a fad, then the Doberman became a fad, and these days, it’s the Labrador."
 
 
 
 Rohneet Kaur, a volunteer with   in Gurgaon, shares with us, "The more expensive the dog is, more the chances of it being stolen. Thieves have been known to operate from the villages near   in Gurgaon, and Wazirabad and Sultanpur in Delhi. They steal dogs from neighbouring colonies and sell them for as little as `1,000-`2,000. It is very easy to lure a pet with meat and chicken, and in some cases, if the dog is outside without a leash, he might lose his way and get stolen. In some of the cases, other people want to get rid of someone’s pets out of jealousy. I have three pets, one Lab and two indies, and they bark a lot. My neighbour has told me he will get rid of them ‘by hook or by crook’, so we are always careful ."
 
  
  Pravin Kora with his pet dog Polo (BCCL)
 
 
 
 Rohit Gaur, who lives in Sector 7, lost his dog and later found him in one of the slums around Sector 9. "This happened in 2015. My dog is a Labrador, so he would go out without the leash and would come back. One day, he did not come back. We looked for him, put ‘missing’ posters everywhere, but couldn’t find him. After three days, we were near Sector 9, where there’s a slum around, and I randomly asked people if they had seen my dog. My cousin just went inside on a hunch and saw that our Betu was there. When we asked those people, they said, 'Humein mil gaya tha, humne toh sambhal ke rakha tha.' They mostly sell the dogs to breeders," says Rohit. 
 
 
 
 Both activists and pet owners stress on the need for stronger laws to deal with pet-snatchings. "People do not report dog thefts because they do not know what the law says," says Amit. Vipul Adrari, an activist and initiator of Happy  , asks, "It is a crime, so why don’t we take this seriously? Snatching ke cases kam hain, but stealing toh 5-10 hote hi hain." For Hobbes too, the family has filed an FIR.
 
 
