BENGALURU:   is neither in public domain nor open to scrutiny. But it has come to light that several government departments in Karnataka have been misusing the provision claiming expenditure made on other purposes as money spent for ‘secret services’.

 Last year, an expenditure of Rs 1.10 crore on a printer that printed question papers for gazetted probationers main examination was classified in the category of ‘secret service’ by the  . While the lid on this has been blown, several cases have gone undetected, sources said, adding that the money spent could run into several crores of rupees.
 
 The CAG had warned the   twice in as many years that money spent for non-secret service requirements are being claimed as secret service. Secret service expenses involve money spent to cultivate sources and informants and gather intelligence on critical issues ranging from trafficking, communal violence, terrorism and smuggling.
 
 Unlike the Centre’s account and that of all other state governments where secret service expenditure is a separate head, Karnataka merged it with another object head in 2003-04.
 
 The state finance department had then said that this was being done to simplify the classification of expenditure. ‘Object Head 117’, classified as ‘Scholarships and Incentives’, has since become a crucial expenditure head and includes expenses on the state’s secret service. But it has now turned out that several state departments have been misusing the category and evading audit of expenses on other issues, claiming it as ‘secret service’.
 
 The CAG has suggested creation of a separate object head to prevent this and boost transparency. The government has acknowledged that the problem is not completely resolved. “It’s an accounting issue. We’ve come across this and issued a circular last year. While most departments are following it, there may be one or two which are left out. We will find out and ensure they fall in line,” I S N Prasad, additional chief secretary, department of finance, told TOI.
 
 On August 11, 2016, the government issued a circular directing “all departments which are incurring expenditure under the head ‘117 — Scholarships and Incentives’, other than secret service expenditure, shall be compulsorily audited by the Accountant General.
 
 And, even for secret service expenditure, the controlling officer concerned should conduct an administrative audit and furnish a certificate to the Accountant General as prescribed under Rule 47(4) of the MCE, 1958. No such certificate, however, has been produced till date, according to the   tabled last week.
 
 
 
 
 Officials back the system of secret service expenses being kept out of public domain. “I’m unaware if any department is trying to evade scrutiny by misusing the secret services provision. The category is critical for the functioning of the police department. There are methods of checks and balances for use of secret service in the home department,” an inspector general of police said.
 
 “Information does not always come for free. There are 30 districts, and the CID, the state intelligence and others need informants and sources. From strategic intelligence to information on terror, secret service funds are needed and you cannot always name the person who is receiving money as it compromises their security,” former DG&IG ST Ramesh said.
 
