MARGAO: The voters of the mining belt of   had strongly rallied behind the BJP in the 2012 assembly elections relying on the promise of a positive change in the way of governance that would have a far-reaching effect in the lives of ordinary people. While the saffron party won the seats in Curchorem, Sanvordem, and Sanguem constituencies, Congress managed to retain just one assembly segment of Quepem. 

 The mining ban that came into force soon after BJP took over the reins of the government, put paid to all promises held aloft by the party. Promises of a dedicated mining corridor, revitalizing agriculture and developing eco-tourism in South Goa’s mining belt were soon forgotten, and all plans relegated to the background. Not that people bothered though - as the public’s concerns centred around the spectre of unemployment following the loss of jobs in the mining sector, the government hardly felt any public pressure to fulfill its promises.
 
 While the mining industry has now begun to revive, following the lifting of the ban albeit with restrictions on quantity of extractions and exports, the need for the mining corridor is now acutely felt – and the government has been caught napping. Political commentators say, notwithstanding all alibis of issues concerning land acquisitions, the government slept on its development plans in the mining belt following the mining ban. 
 
 It’s under these circumstances that the mining-dependent voters of South Goa went to vote on February 4. The silence of the voters has baffled political pundits who are wary of voicing out their prophecies.
 
 In Sanvordem, political observers say incumbent   (BJP) would do well to be prepared for a defeat as MGP’s Deepak Pauskar seems to have a distinct edge. Sources say if Gaonkar loses, it could largely be attributed to his inaccessibility to and disconnent with his voters. Pauskar capitalized on Gaonkar’s weak spots and made deep inroads into his rival’s turf. However, calculations of political experts fail to throw up any clear winner, thereby indicating a tough battle between Gaonkar and Pauskar. 
 
 In Curchorem, though BJP’s Nilesh Cabral enjoys an edge, political pundits say Goa Suraksha Manch candidate Shyam Satardekar is likely to give Cabral some sleepless nights until March 11. Political observers feel a large turnout of women at the polls in this constituency could well go in Cabral’s favour. However, they also do not discount the GSM’s success in whipping up opposition towards Cabral in the contentious garbage treatment plant planned at Cacora and coal handling project planned at Xelvon. Which way will the balance tilt? Silent voters hold the key. 
 
 In Sanguem, things changed dramatically ahead of polling day that made things unpredictable for political pundits. A tough fight is on the cards between BJP’s incumbent MLA Subhash Phal Dessai , Savitri Kavlekar (Congress) and independent  . Caste politics will play a decisive factor in this segment. While Gaonkar belongs to the ST community, Kavlekar is from the Dhangar tribe. Both tribal communities have a sizeable presence in Sanguem constituency. Besides, Savitri is the wife of Quepem MLA Chandrakant ‘Babu’ Kavlekar who holds influence over the traditional Congress votes. If the tribal votes switch over to these tribal candidates, Phal Dessai could be in real trouble, poll watchers say, though they feel he could scrape through on account of division of opposition votes in a multi-cornered contest. 
 
 Quepem constituency is also witnessing a tough battle, as incumbent   Chandrakant Kavlekar faces a serious threat from Prakash Shankar Velip, on account of a united opposition. Prakash Arjun Velip who had contested as MGP candidate in the 2012 polls has now joined the BJP which has effectively enhanced senior Velip’s prospects. If AAP candidate   weans away much of Kavlekar’s traditional Congress votes, Velip could well emerge a winner.
 
 However, the silent voters are not willing to give anything away, much to the dismay of the political pundits. 
 
 Political commentators say, notwithstanding all alibis of issues concerning land acquisitions, the government slept on its development plans in the mining belt following the mining ban 
 
