Afonso de Albuquerque’s incursion into Goa in 1510 was to pave the way for more than just the Portuguese occupation. It was to lead to some of the most architecturally rich churches in the little colony. St Catherine’s Chapel at Old Goa, built to commemorate Albuquerque’s entry, was the first of these. 

  were an integral part of this architectural make-up. Cast by the master blacksmiths of Cuncolim, or the expert Portuguese foundry man Pedro Dias Bocarro, most of these bells, dating back to the 1500s, are still housed in the churches they were originally cast for.
 
  While the more grandiose churches housed two or more bells, rung in conjunction to convey various messages, others drew their parishioners’ attention with just one large one.
 
 Any search for the oldest would invariably lead to the Golden Bell at the Sé Cathedral, Old Goa, which also enjoys the distinction of being the largest. 
 
 Immortalized in a Portuguese poem by Tomaz Ribeiro for its richness of tone, this bell, in conjunction with the four smaller ones housed in a single tower, produces a symphony of tones. 
 
 A keen student of Goa’s past, and author of ‘Soaring Spirit: 450 years of Margao’s Espirito Santo Church (1565-2015)’, Valmiki Faleiro, elaborates: “The ‘Sino de Oiro’ (Golden Bell) which was commissioned in 1651 and cast in 1652, by most accounts at the ‘arsenal de marinha’ at Old Goa by the famed Portuguese foundry man Pedro Dias Bocarro, is made of an alloy of approximately seven metals. It was also said that gold was used, which lends to its deep, rich sonorous sound. This enormous bell can be heard for over five kilometres, reaching the surrounding villages of Gandaulim and Cumbharjua.”
 
 Faleiro also points out that the four smaller bells – Most Holy Sacrament of Dignity (1605 – cast by Pedro Dias Bocarro); Our Lady of Hope (1648); St Tomaz (cast in 1719 by Goa’s Ramakant Krishna Chatim) and the Choir Bell, are all reminiscent of musical notes of the first five sol-fa syllables.
 
 Another borrowing from Old Goa was to find its way to the imposing 476-year-old church of Our Lady of the Immaculate Conception in Panaji. Historian and lecturer Vasco Pinho, who has chronicled Goa’s past in his ‘Snapshots of Indo-Portuguese History’ in four volumes, explains its journey. 
 
 “After the Augustinian Monastery on the Monte Santo was damaged, this bell, considered to be the second largest in Goa, was retrieved from the ruins of the Church of Our Lady of Grace (Nossa Senhora da Graça) and installed in the chapel at Fort Aguada. A decision was later taken to transfer it to a more prominent church and hence, it was brought to Panjim in 1871. Cast by Joao Niclau Levachi in the 1590s in Portugal, it was later shipped to Goa. The earlier church facade had to be reinforced and restructured to bear the load of the bell, which weighs around 2,250 kilograms. Interestingly, a local mechanic from Siolim was engaged to raise the belfry. The bell was the cause of death of two people on two separate occasions – once in December 1878, when it came loose from its moorings, and another time when the clapper fell,” writes Pinho. 
 
 Down south, the old precincts of Margao house one of its oldest churches – the Holy Spirit Church. Over four centuries old, this church also has the distinction of housing two of the oldest bells.
 
  “In the fourth edition of the church, from 1589-1675, both the bells were present along with a clock tower. This edifice was later demolished to make way for the present structure. Both the bells are now housed in the northern tower. In two different sizes, one is of a higher note and the other a lower one. They are played in combination to produce around 20 different ring patterns,” reveals Faleiro in his research documents on the bells.
 
 Undoubtedly then, as rich as the heritage of the land, these age-old church bells continue to ring in unison with the times.
 
 
