COIMBATORE: While the city is reeling under a severe water crisis, water loss due to leakages, pipeline bursts and other damage are adding to the city corporation’s list of woes. On Sunday, nearly 2MLD of water was lost due to the damaged valve of the main pipeline of the   scheme on  .

 A few months ago, the pipeline had burst due to high pressure. While such bursts are common, the latest incident was due to the road widening project taken up by the state highways department. “The workers were using machinery to dig the road. They had informed us about the work. Initially, they had asked us to relocate the pipelines, which we refused to do. But we had given them permission to dig up to 2ft,” said an assistant engineer.
 
 Corporation officials were not present at the spot when the work was being carried out. “Accidents take place during every project. Even if our officials were present at the spot, such damage could not be avoided,” said the officer.
 
 According to the local residents, drinking water leaked for more than five hours. Ganesh Kandhasamy said he was in the area around 1 pm when he noticed it. “I was there for over half an hour as I had visited a restaurant. Noticing that so much water was getting wasted, I put it up in social media groups where some corporation officials were members of. There were police officials at the spot as well. After a while, corporation officials reached the spot to repair it,” said Ganesh.
 
 Assistant commissioner of north zone, Coimbatore corporation, V Saravanan said, “We repaired the valve, but the water supply will resume only after several hours. Generally in such situations, the entire water has to be drained from the pipe and work can be carried out only after that. So we first stopped the Pillur water supply completely and then repaired it,” he said. When engineers were questioned why they were not present at the spot, they dodged the question. Also, when asked if they could have stored the overflowing water into some water tankers, they said the possibility of saving water in such situations is very less. “We cannot stop it. We can work only after the water gets drained from the pipe,” said the engineer.
 
 Because of this water loss and valve damage, water supply to Ganapathy, Bharathi park road, Singanallur, Peelamedu and Ramakrishnapuram was affected. “Since this was the main pipeline of Pillur, the water in the overhead tank at Ramakrishnapuram and other tanks at Ganapthy and Bharathi park could not be filled,” said a senior engineer. He said the situation was under control and they would ensure smooth water supply in a couple of days. 
 
