With a new discourse on different environmental issues put forth each day, a responsible and healthy way of living is seen as a dire necessity. In addition to treading the path of planting trees and switching to organic means of farming, eco-friendly buildings are now getting due attention as they help tackle issues of water scarcity and waste management in urban areas. 

 We talk to architect Jaigopal G Rao, about the need for such sustainable alternatives in the contemporary society.
 Jaigopal says that it was renowned architect Laurie Baker’s path-breaking ideas that spurred him and his wife Latha Raman Jaigopal during their 25-year journey in the field in Kochi. “Given that we are facing energy crisis, and there is an excess carbon emission, we optimise nature friendly resources for construction to lessen the impact on nature,” he says.
 
 What makes eco-friendly buildings? Effective and efficient electricity, water and fuel consumption, along with optimising the use of earth blocks, mud and bamboo during the process, according to him.
 “Other significant aspects are rainwater harvesting, waste management, recycling waste, plastics and metals,” the architect says, adding that well-informed people are increasingly opting for this today.”
 
 However, there is also a sceptical lot. He says that convincing people to let go of their inhibitions to give priority to environment during construction has been a challenge. “While on the one hand, people are willing to spend money, on the other, there is a lack of understanding of the significance of such building patterns, and many are just concerned about solving the immediate problems.” 
 
 With the looming issues of water scarcity and waste management adversely affecting cities such as Kochi and especially areas such as Vypin and Chellanam area, Jaigopal stresses that eco-friendly buildings are a must on a holistic level.
 
 “It’s necessary and timely that such plans are implemented for town planning as it can also combat issues such as water logging during incessant rains. If the panchayat too takes it up, it would reap great rewards in the longer run,” he concludes.
 
