NEW DELHI: Facing the heat of the  , which threatened to shut down   if its parent, Malaysian company Maxis, and its promoter T Ananda Krishnan do not appear before it in connection with the  , the telecom company has told the court that it had no control over them and it should not be punished for their fault. 

 Maxis Communication Berhad (MCB) and Krishnan were chargesheeted along with former telecom minister Dayanidhi Maran in the Aircel-Maxis deal. Maran was alleged to have arm-twisted and forced Aircel owner C Sivasankaran to sell his majority stake to the Maxis group owned by the Malaysian billionaire. Immediately after Maxis secured majority stake in Aircel, it was granted 2G licence in Novem- ber 2006. 
 
 Although Aircel admits that Maxis holds 73.99% stake in it, the company has told SC that it has "no control" over the Malaysian firm and contended that Krishnan had no direct interest in Maxis and is "only having a deemed indirect interest". It pleaded to the court that no adverse order should be passed against the company as it was itself not made an accused in the scam. The Malaysian company and its promoter had refused to subject themselves to court proceedings against them and refused to respond to repeated summons issued against them by the trial court ,which had last year issued arrest warrants against Krishnan. 
 
 Taking strong exception to Maxis group and Krishnan's non-appearance, the apex court had, on January 6, asked the Centre to frame modalities for transfer of spectrum from Aircel to another telecom operator if the accused failed to submit themselves to the Indian courts. 
 
 "He (Krishnan) must come to India and present himself before the court if he is using the national assets (2G spectrum). We will not tolerate him enjoying the assets of the nation and run away from the law of the country...We want to secure his presence before us. We want to give him full opportunity to present his side," the court had said.
 
 Sensing that the court may pass order affecting its telecom operation, the company rushed to the court and said, "The applicants cannot possibly exercise any control over the accused persons or the entities directed to appear before this court." It has blamed CBI for not serving the summons successfully to Maxis as per the law due to which the company failed to respond to trial court's order.
 
 It also refuted the allegation that the company was trying to wind up its operations in the country and was selling its assets to other telecom companies. It said some part of the spectrum was transferred to Bharti Airtel to raise money for reduction of debts owed to banks and its proposed transaction with Reliance Communications was for acquiring assets and not for selling. 
 
 "The wireless assets of Reliance will be acquired by it in return for issue of equity shares of Aircel to Reliance. This will result in a combination of the wireless business of the two entities. No cash is involved in the proposed transaction so the question of taking out money does not arise," the application said. 
 
 "A misleading impression appears to have been created that there is an attempt to liquidate its assets and move funds from India. The correct position is precisely the contrary," it said.
 
 The company said it had made a huge investment of Rs 32,000 crore since 2006, but had yet to profit out of its business. It said the company owes debts of over Rs 17,300 crore to banks and if its operations were closed, it would be unable to repay the debt. "The smooth operations of the company is imperative in the interest of, among others, consortium of banks, financiers, service suppliers, vendors, retailers and employees," it said. 
 
 
