PUNE:   in   taluka have given a week’s time to the state government to   international   project, failing which they will go on an indefinite hunger strike. 

 The government is moving swiftly on the project, holding two meetings within a week. On Monday, landowners from the seven villages earmarked for the project went on a protest march to the Saswad tehsildar’s office. 
 
 “At a meeting last week, a majority of the landowners decided that they will reject all the options, and that they don’t want the project. We have demanded that the government withdraw the project from Purandar within a week. If this doesn’t happen, we will start an indefinite   at Khanauri village,” said Datta Dhurange, president of the Vimantal Virodhi Sangharsh Samiti. 
 
 Armed with banners and placards, around 1,000 villagers marched to the office of the Tehsildar and staged a protest between 11 am and 1.30 pm. One banner displayed the name of Shankar Daulat Memane, a farmer-cum-landowner who had died under mysterious circumstances last month.
 
 “We have submitted an application on this to the tehsildar; our stand is clear,” another landowner from Pargaon village, pointed out.
 
 On April 29, officials from the district administration and Maharashtra Airport Development Company Limited (MADC) met chief minister Devendra Fadnavis. At the meeting, four compensation options for the landowners were decided upon. On May 5, at another meeting in Mumbai, water resources minister Vijay Shivtare sought a meeting with the defence ministry and the Indian Air Force on May 15 for approval of the airport plan, so they can move forward on rehabilitation of the villagers.
 
 Pune district collector Saurabh Rao had earlier said that while 2,367 hectares in question were approved by the Airports Authority of India, the May 15 meeting will get formal approval from the Union government.
 
 “The project is very important to Pune as well as the state. The government will continue holding talks with the people and we believe things will proceed peacefully,” a local administration official said. 
 
 Land for the airport is to be acquired from seven villages — Pargaon, Udachiwadi, Vanpuri, Kumbarvan, Ekhatpur, Manjauri and Khanauri.
 
