HYDERABAD: The locality has easy accessibility to Gachibowli, Hitec City, Kukatpally, Whitefield and other nearby areas through the Outer Ring Road (ORR).

 Kompally is only one hour's drive away from Hyderabad and offers apartments in the   range of Rs 30-40 lakh.
 
 
 
 
 As per MagicBricks data, property prices in Kompally are in the lower price range. From Rs 3,173 per sq ft in January-March 2016, property prices in Kompally in October stand at Rs 2,675 sq ft. This amounts to about 15 percent decline in the property prices. This may sound tempting to end-users who have been mulling to buy a house near Hyderabad. If you have already selected a property then chances are that its price tag has moved towards the lower side.
 
 
 
 One can get flats and plots in the area. A 1BHK flat in the size of 340-540 sq ft costs anywhere between Rs 4.35 to Rs 10.15 lakh. A 2BHK flat of size 707-1533 sq ft costs Rs 16.80 to Rs 39.20 lakh. 
 
 If you want a bigger house, a 3BHK flat sized 1040-1990 sq ft can be for around Rs 26.61 to Rs 62.09 Lakh. The price depends upon the location, size, specification, amenities of the property.
 
 Other than resale properties that include flats, villas and penthouses, one can also check out new projects coming up in the area. Most of them are offering either ready-to-move-in properties with the latest possession date being by the end of year 2017.
 
 These are mostly luxury projects offering stylish villas that range above a crore and offer unique amenities, such as club house, outdoor tennis court, swimming pool, power backup, gymnasium, security and more.
 
 
 
 
 "The fact that one can get affordable properties in Kompally, has made it a destination of choice for people working in Gachibowli and Hitec City. Buyers' profile includes not only end users who want to reside in the property, but also investors from Hyderabad and Secunderabad who eye rental yields on their property," says K Muralidhara Charya, a property agent working in the locality.
 
 Magicbricks data also supports this statement as the rental yield in the area is about 4 percent. "It is a calm residential area that caters to all kind of basic needs such as vegetable markets, shops, hotel, hospitals, and banks, super markets," says B Srinivasa Reddy, resident of a locality.
 
 
 
 
