HYDERABAD: In a great relief for 41Indian sailors stranded in the  , a group of divers came and inspected the holes in the ships at Ajman Port, UAE.
With no electricity and no drinking water, life has become miserable for the sailors who are stuck in the four ships. Rats are only adding to their woes poisoning their food, which anyway is cooked with polluted water.
 
 What is worse is that the life rafts cannot be used in the emergency situation being faced by the sailors as they have become unusable because of expiry date. All emergency appliances also cannot be used, according to the crew. TOI had published a report about the sailors plight on January 7.
 
 The biggest of the issue at this juncture is that all the certificates of license of one of the ships, Mt Enjaz 1, expi red. In the ship that is meant for nine crew members, 15 are sleeping on the deck, ship captain Rajesh G, told TOI. Rajesh is from Kakinada in Andhra Pradesh and his family is settled in Mumbai.
 
 It is a grim situation on another ship MV Rock. The captain of MV Rock, Ananya Pratap Singh said that the main engine of the ship was not working.
 
 The captain of MV Salem, Anoop Pathak said their condition was worsening and posted a picture on Twitter showing the sailors repairing the ship. He said the owner of the ship Dr Abbas had sent divers to check the holes to undertake repairs. Anoop said no repairs could be taken up and the divers were expected to come back again on Monday . Hopes of being rescued grew for the sailors in trouble as Union minister for external affairs   took up their issue.
 
 Though officials from the embassy spoke to the sailors, it was only on Sunday that some divers went to the ships anchored at Ajman to verify their condition.
 
 Meanwhile, the Protector General , Government of India, M C Luther, in response to the TOI report said, “POE Mumbai alerted DG shipping, Mumbai to rescue emigrants. All sent by illegal agents.“
 
 Indian ambassador to UAE   said, “We are in touch with ship-owner, port authorities and captain to resolve issue urgently .“
 
 On Sunday evening, the deputy consul general of India in Dubai, Muraleedharan called up ship captain Rajesh and said measures were being taken to rescue all the stranded sailors.
 
