ALMORA: Although Dharchula shares the border with Nepal and China, the constituency is plagued by lack of roads, unreliable mobile connectivity and nearly non-existent healthcare services.
 
  In 2014,   won a by-election from Dharchula assembly seat with a massive margin of 31,214 votes, while   of Congress had won this seat in 2012. However, residents of the constituency’s 150 villages say virtually, no development has taken place in the last five years, even as the constituency has a total of 83,172 voters, including 41,928 women.
  
  All 35 migratory villages of upper Johar, Darma and Byans have no roads, and it takes almost several days to reach these villages on foot with many people, especially elderly, facing lots of trouble such as injuries and even death on the way.
  
  Devendra Singh, a resident of Kwerijimiya village, said, “Since the formation of Uttarakhand, whether it’s BJP or the Congress, no party has seriously looked into our concerns. There’s still no road to our village. What good is voting for us if MLAs forget us after being elected?”
  
  It’s a steep walk of 9 km from the nearest road-head. The disaster-affected village of 250 voters has decided to abstain from voting in the upcoming election.
  
  In August 2016, a 50-year-old woman from Bilju village of upper Johar valley, located 47 km from Munsiyari, died on the way while she was being carried.
  
  Malla Johar Vikas Samiti president Ram Singh told TOI that the committee and residents of upper Johar valley would support the candidate who is well aware of the area’s problems. “Earlier, MLAs didn’t even visit our villages; they don’t know the area and its problems. We demanded roads and even footbridges in some of our villages near Martoli and Rilkot. But, the government overlooked us and there has been no development in our region.”
  
  The 75-km motorable road along the China border — being constructed by the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) from Ghatiabagar to Lipulekh Pass in Dharchula subdivision of Pithoragarh district — still remains incomplete, even though the construction work began way back in 2003.
  
  Members of Bhotiya community of Dharchula and Munsiyari, which comprises a major part of voters in the constituency, say whoever rings the community’s bell will win the seat. “The community is spread over high-altitude villages of Dharchula. We need tourism, roads and mobile connectivity in the area. The roads will also increase tourists on the Kailash Mansarovar Yatra route and help traders and porters, who participate in the Indo-China border trade every year, grow,” said Vishal Gunjiwal, a resident of Dharchula.
  
  Mobile connectivity is a major poll plank in Dharchula. With nearly 20,000 Nepali SIMs are being used by Indian people as well as security forces, residents say they will vote for a candidate who brings consistent mobile connectivity to Dharchula.
  
  “While rest of the country is running 4G services, we have 2G. BSNL services are extremely poor and remain nonfunctional most of time, hence, people have to use Nepali SIMs. Whoever brings reliable mobile connectivity to this area will win all votes. Life in border villages will improve if the elected representative brings mobile connectivity to the area,” said Bhupendra Thapa, Dharchula traders’ union president.
  
  Healthcare services in   are very poor too. The ultrasound machine here has been lying unused for the last three years, because the government has not approved a technician’s post. “Everyone, who can afford, travels to Haldwani or Delhi for treatment. We can’t rely on the pathetic healthcare services of Dharchula PHC,” said Usha Sanwal, a resident of Dharchula.
