I first read Shrabani Basu’s book when it was published seven years ago. However, an invitation to the opening night of the release of Stephen Frears’ film (which carries the same name as the book that inspired it) led me to re-visit Basu’s work, this time getting my hands on a film tie-in copy, complete with a cover photo showing Judi Dench as the Queen and   as the eponymous  .

 The film is, of course, marvellous – funny, poignant, gorgeously shot and produced – but then one would expect no less from the director of ‘The Queen’ and ‘Philomena’. Lee Hall’s script also finds unexpected comedy in the story of a young, Muslim greenhorn who fetches up in Queen Victoria’s court in the year of her Golden Jubilee, sent as a ‘gift’ from India to mark the occasion. The elderly Queen, still mourning the losses of her husband, Prince Albert, and John Brown, the rough-edged Scottish ghillie with whom she had a close but controversial relationship, takes an enormous liking to Abdul much to the dismay and overt disdain of Victoria’s courtiers and family. 
 
 Great swathes of the film were shot in Osborne House, the summer retreat on the Isle of Wight that was built by Prince Albert and opened for the first time to a film crew. And audiences can thus revel in the stunning locations that include the Indian durbar hall built by   with Abdul’s help, quite probably to help transport her imagination to the distant land she was Empress of but could never hope to visit.
 
 Just as a film can similarly transport one using the power of cinematography and music, it is eventually Basu’s book that all discerning audiences should turn to if they want to know how much of the story is true. This is a question sure to be asked, given that the Queen (exactly as she did with John Brown) went as far as travelling alone with Abdul to the remote ‘Widow’s Cottage’ on the shores of Glassalt Shiel near Balmoral and fought bitter battles to stave off the racism and classism he was to endure in her court. The exact nature of their relationship can only remain speculative but, painstakingly researched and indexed, this book tells a cracking story that puts fiction to shame. 
 
 Born to a hospital assistant in Agra, Abdul was working as a clerk in the Central Jail when he was asked by the jail’s superintendent to help him choose a pair of gold bangles to present to the Queen. This mission successfully executed, Abdul was subsequently chosen to go as one of the Indian servants requested by the Queen to help serve at table when Indian royalty were to be entertained at the forthcoming Jubilee celebrations. It is from this humble start that Abdul’s meteoric rise in Victoria’s court began, one which almost seemed to breathe new life into the Queen who was roused from her mourning to learn a new language in her seventies and carry out spirited battle on behalf of her new friend. 
 
 Sceptical readers may need, on occasion, to flip back and forth to the notes to reassure themselves that they are not reading fiction but, from finely researched primary sources, Basu pieces together a narrative that exposes stirring themes such as emotional frailty, loyalty, ambition, envy, friendship and, ultimately, lays bare the complex and indefinable nature of love. 
 
 Few, even in India, will know of Queen Victoria’s successful attempt at mastering Urdu in her evening years and, fortunately, these journals were not destroyed alongside Edward VII’s crazed efforts to burn the entire correspondence that existed between his mother and her Munshi. Basu also determinedly traces Abdul’s journey back to India after the death of his beloved Queen when he is summarily dismissed and sent away from England by her jealous children. This is where the book is at its most moving as we see a man who, now wealthier and more successful than even he could have imagined, returns to his homeland, quite probably heartbroken by the death of his biggest champion who not only protected him but helped elevate him to a stature few could dream of. Perhaps it was this loss that led to his own premature death a mere eight years afterwards. 
 
 Unsung in India, most of his family having emigrated to Pakistan during Partition, Abdul’s grave now lies untended in Agra’s Panchkuin Khabaristan. If only he had known of his eventual resurrection as a subject of a brilliant book and film.
 
 
 
 
