MADURAI: The state government has allocated Rs 109.48 crore this year for   to Madurai and   and all local bodies, including municipalities,   and panchayats, coming under the Madurai zone, minister for municipal administration, rural development and implementation of special schemes, S P Velumani, has said.

 He was addressing a review meeting of the local bodies including the Madurai and Dindigul Corporations, municipalities, town panchayats and panchayats in Madurai, Theni, Dindigul, Sivaganga and Ramanathapuram, which was presided over by ministers Dindigul C Seenivasan and Sellur K Raju in Madurai on Friday. He said that Tamil Nadu was facing the worst drought in 142 years, due to repeated monsoon failures. Though there was a 62% shortfall in the northeast monsoon, all steps should be taken to ensure that drinking water is supplied regularly to the people, he said.
 
 As many as 3,568 works have been undertaken at a cost of Rs 109.48 crore in the above mentioned local bodies of which 2,534 were completed. 
 
 The minister urged the authorities to complete the works on a war-footing, including the Natham comprehensive water scheme and Vedasandur comprehensive water scheme being implemented by the TWAD board.
 
 He further said that all steps should be taken to ensure that treated water is not misused for purposes like watering plants and that all the generators should be kept in good condition. Officials were also told to rent private generators if they are unable to replace faulty ones. 
 
 Checking water quality before it was distributed to the people was also stressed upon.
 
 Commissioners, corporation, municipal, town panchayat engineers and rural development workers were told to monitor the water supply on a daily basis from 6am onwards. Using water judiciously was of utmost importance and awareness on the same should be created, he said. He also exhorted the officials to address the water problem in areas before they were reported in the media.
 
 MLA V V Rajan Chellappa, Dr V P Paramasivam, principal secretary for municipal administration and water supply Harmander Singh among others were present. 
 
 
