BENGALURU:   shouldn't be allowed on  , and states need to streamline their movement. This recommendation by the parliamentary committee on transport hasn't gone down well with activists working for the rights of walkers and cyclists, who have termed it regressive. The recommendation features in a report submitted to Parliament on Monday. According to ministry of road transport and highways data, 23% of road users are pedestrians and about 13% cyclists.

 While the focus of the authorities is to increase   to reduce pollution levels and achieve sustainable mobility, the recommendation will make it impossible to protect vulnerable road users. Ironically, the committee members have cited the   to re strict their movement on highways and main roads.
 
 The committee was set up to offer suggestions on the changes to be made in the Motor Vehicles Amend ment Bill 2016. The report, numbered 243, says: “Pedestrians are the most vulnerable road users and do not have insurance cover.   don't follow road rules and create nuisance, and there is a need to streamline them by introducing minor penaltypunishment. Non-motorized transport users include pedestrians, cyclists and cycle rickshaws.
 
 Stating that Karnataka should object to such policies, activist Vinay Sreenivasa said: “Today, highways cut across cities and villages. Take the example of Old Madras Road, Hosur Road, Tumakuru Road or Ballari Road, which scythe through the city. How can the government restrict pedestrians from walking along these highways, which are now part of the city road network? The government will take 10 steps backwards by implementing such a report. India, in fact, will be the first country to put restrictions on pedestrians and cyclists instead of protecting them and increasing walkability .“
 
 Sathya Sankaran, a cycling enthusiast, said, “The particular sentence in the recommendation which says non-motorized vehicles don't follow rules and create a nuisance shows exactly what the government thinks about cyclingnon-motorized transport. Apart from having dedicated cycle lanes and walkable footpaths everywhere, it should ensure that motorists don't zip through pavements, and promote cycling as a mode of last-mile connectivity .“
 
 Sustainable Urban Mobility Network (SUM NET), a forum of transportation experts across India, has already written to Nitin Gadkari, union minister for transport, highways and shipping, stating its objections to the recommendation.
 
 “Addressing the safety of pedestrians and non-motorized vehicles by proposing ways to protect them through measures such as providing safe and segregated pathways, reducing the speed of motorized vehicles in urban areas, creating vehicle-free areas, stricter enforcement of traffic laws for motorized vehicles and increasing respect for the right of way of pedestrians and cyclists is the need of the hour. In fact, unregulated, free parking and parking of motor vehicles on cycle tracks and footpaths in cities is one of the prime contributors to the hazards faced by pedestrians and others in the category. The use of cycles and cyclerickshaws in urban areas to provide last-mile connectivity must be aggressively promoted,“ reads an extract from the letter.
 
 
 
 
 Endangered, undervalued and ignored.
 
 These words sum up the plight of the humble pedestrian, who often gets a raw deal in our country and is reduced to a mere statistic. So does the enthusiastic cyclist, who pedals to reduce carbon footprint but barely finds a mention in transport policies. The recommendation to impose restrictions on non-motorized transport users is appalling and based on a flawed logic -to prevent them from being vulnerable. Instead, the government should check the burgeoning number of vehicles, crack down on errant drivers and make highways safe by building cycle tracks and skywalks. It also needs to emulate other nations where the pedestrian is at the core of the transport network. Karnataka would do well not to implement the panel's suggestion if it wants to promote sustainability.
 
