By
 

 The state government was left red faced during a session on  ,   in Karnataka held at the   here on Monday as the delegates attending the session complained about the   ailing the city and the lack of proper infrastructure for the flourishing industrial ecosystem of Bengaluru.
 
 During the session, a question was raised to the ministers on the dais about this gargantuan problem that has hampered brand Bengaluru time and again. RV Deshp­ande, minister for large and medium industries, took the question and apologised for the inconvenience being faced by the foreign delegates while commuting within the city.
 
 “I accept that we have lacked in developing the infrastructure to keep pace with the industrial development around the city, but I want to assure you that the government is not sleeping over the issue and is well aware of this problem. Steps are being taken to decongest the city roads at the earliest,” he said.
 
 The state government is also in talks with the   to collaborate and built the peripheral ring road that has been for long in the proposal stage.
 
 The authorities said that work will soon commence on the elevated corridor and mono-rail projects to build a robust infrastructure for a city that is growing at a rapid pace.
 
 On the sideline of the sessions, Virendra Sharma, Labour Member of Parliament for Ealing Southall who was also part of the dignitaries, said, “The state has immense potential to attract investment and is a major industry magnet among the south-Indian state, but has many competitors and hence poor infrastructure might be a hindrance if not addressed at the earliest. It is good to see that the minister is aware and that in itself gives a lot of hope.”
 
 A senior government official from the industry department said the idea of TenderSURE roads was floated in 2010-11 and the work commenced in 2014. Similarly, the signal-free corridor concept was conceived in 2011-12, but the tenders were awarded only in 2015. Now the government is mulling the idea of elevated corridors that were envisaged in 2014-15 and work will soon start on these projects.
 
 While addressing the issue of poor infrastructure in the city, RV Deshpande said the implementation of infrastructural projects has a long gestation period as there are many parties involved including the public, but he assured the Indian diaspora that things are happening and will happen.
 
