GURUGRAM: Pollution levels have again shot up in Gurugram in the last four days. While PM2.5 was six times more than the safe level, the level of nitrogen dioxide surged on May 22 before settling down again on Wednesday.

 The highest level of PM2.5 was above 350 micrograms per cubic metre on both Wednesday and Tuesday, the highest level was 287.90 micrograms per cubic metre and 234.86 micrograms per cubic metre on Monday and Sunday, respectively.
 
 Shockingly, the level of nitrogen dioxide that generally remains within a safe limit also saw a sudden rise in the past three days. Though it dived down on Wednesday to 80.19 micrograms per cubic metre, the first day of the week had seen it surge to 633.45 micrograms per cubic metre.
 
 According to the national safety standard, the level of nitrogen dioxide shouldn’t be more than 80 micrograms per cubic metre and PM2.5 shouldn’t be more than 60 micrograms per cubic metre. 
 
 Experts feel increase in the level of PM2.5 along with nitrogen dioxide indicates an increase in diesel emissions in the city. “Major source of nitrogen dioxide is diesel burning, while PM2.5 can increase due to various factors, including diesel emissions. Increase in both the pollutants at the same time indicates increased diesel emissions in Gurugram. I think long and frequent power breakdowns are responsible as more diesel generators are being used in the city,” said  , a former member of the   (EPCA). He added that one generator of 10 kVA, running on constant load, emits as many pollutants released by two heavy duty trucks.
 
 Environmentalist Vivek Kamboj said, “Almost every household in Gurgaon has installed diesel generators. The only difference is that individual households have small gensets while residential societies and commercial buildings have big gensets. It is unfortunate that the pollution control board has never taken any action in this direction. The city as a result is choking now.”
 
 According to an RTI response, Gurugram is dependent on 10,552 diesel generators for power backup.
 
 The activists also demanded an immediate implementation of construction norms on the national highway. “Major cause of increase in PM2.5 levels is the construction of underpasses on the national highway. In all these cases construction norms are being violated by the authorities themselves. The need of the hour is to put in place construction norms, which would keep a check on the pollution,” said Kamboj.
 
 
