NEW DELHI: Flummoxed state government officials are rushing to denotify highways running through cities as the   ruling barring the sale of liquor within 500 metres of highways threatens to punch a hole in government revenues and slash jobs.
 
  Liquor stocks crashed on the bourses as state government officials scrambled to find a way out of the legal mess and industry associations and hoteliers warned of massive job and revenue losses.
  
  Some states are lobbying with the Centre while one state, Kerala, is planning to seek grace time from the court for implementing the order. Some other states had denotified some highways in urban centres well before the ruling, giving relief to fivestar hotels and pubs.
  
  Many states such as Punjab, Maharashtra, Goa and UP are now exploring the option of denotifying   within cities and towns and turning them into urban roads. Some have also approached the Centre to find out if they can convert national highways into city roads. The central government swung into the act on Monday promising to find a solution.
  
  "We will find a middle way," said  , union minister for tourism and culture.   and pubs, even those in five-star hotels, shut down after the order throwing businesses into disarray and people out of jobs.
  
  The worst hit are those states which depend upon taxes from liquor sales such as Tamil Nadu. In its latest budget, the state government had estimated loss of Rs 2,100 crore due to the closure of nearly 1,000 liquor shops.
  
  That number is likely to go up with Friday's ban.
  
  
 
  
  
  
  Apart from de-notifying roads, each of the affected states is dealing with the ban differently. With Bengaluru's area expanding to 710 sq km, almost every national and state highway that connects the city now falls within the city limits. Ashish Kothare, the head of National Restaurants' Association of India's Bengaluru chapter, points out that nearly 70% of hotel chains, pubs and bars fall within 500 metres of a state or national highway. State Excise Commissioner Manjunath Naik said that the state government has ordered a survey of liquor shops alongside national and state highways and is expecting the report in a week's time.
  
  "We have stopped renewing licenses of bars located near highways. The chief minister, who holds the excise department portfolio, will take the final call after the survey," he said.
  
  The Goa government didn't renew the licences of over 2,500 liquor shops that were close to the highways while Kerala is planning to seek a three-month grace period to implement the ruling.
  
  Maharashtra, another big liquor consuming state, is proposing that the state would oblige municipal corporations requesting for denotification of stretches of highways that pass through their respective jurisdictions. What this means is simple. Once the stretch of highway is denotified, it would be the responsibility of the municipal bodies to look after its maintenance. With denotification, the 500-metre rule imposed by the Supreme Court would no longer apply.
  
  The state government can do this because in 2011 it adopted a policy which allowed it to denotify those roads which the civic bodies want to maintain as their own. Maharashtra government officials speaking off the record to ET said that municipal bodies who are worried about a loss of revenue due to the shutting of such establishments can simply approach the state for denotification of the particular stretch of highways and the state would denotify it.
  
  Stock analysts downgraded ratings on liquor companies sparking a selloff in their shares on Monday. United Spirits, Radico Khaitan and United Breweries fell up to 6% on Monday as the apex court's order is expected to drag down volumes of breweries and distilleries companies because 35-40% of liquor outlets are currently located along highways.
  
  
 
  While no one from the excise department in West Bengal wanted to comment on the SC ruling, the few major five-star hotels in Kolkata -- ITC Sonar, JW Marriott, Hyatt Regency and Taj Gateway --were saved from the ruling through the pre-emptive step taken by the state after the apex court's December 15 order where stretches of two state highways were denotified. The two stretches included EM Bypass and VIP Road.
  
  Ankur Bhatia, executive director, Bird Group said he hoped Delhi and Haryana would follow other states that have denotified highways as city roads. Bhatia's hotel, The Roseate located on NH-8, was sealed after the SC ruling.
  
  Sanjeev Kaushal, additional chief secretary, excise and taxation, Haryana, said: "There have been no formal appeals from hospitality industry against the ban on liquor along highways. The government is open to suggestions from the industry but no formal appeal has been received so far."
  
  Kaushal said the state government has little role to play as the Supreme Court’s restriction on   in certain zones is binding on the state.
  
  Not all states have been hit by the order. The SC order exempts some states like Himachal Pradesh, Meghalaya and Sikkim. The two Telugu states, Andhra Pradesh (AP) and Telangana State (TS), will also not be affected by the liquor ban as they were exempted by the Supreme Court on account of their annual excise year extending beyond April 1.
  
  The Supreme Court stated that in case of Telangana, the licences which were issued before December 15, 2016, will be valid till September 30, 2017 while in Andhra Pradesh the validity will continue till June 30, 2017.
  
  Hoteliers in Odisha warned of spiralling job losses. "Instantly 1,000 people have lost their jobs in Bhubaneswar while assessment for a number for the entire state is still on," said Jitendra Kumar Mohanty, president, Hotel and Restaurant Association of Orissa.
  
  In Arunachal Pradesh, the directorate of information at Aalo released a statement saying a team of officers sealed 58 wine shops falling under 500 metres distance from national and state highways within Aalo township on April 1.
  
  
  
