GURUGRAM: Having excelled overseas, many an Indian has sought to use all that experience to make a difference back home.  , however, is a little different.

 Joya, 16, moved to   two years back, after her father switched jobs. Her life in London was one blessed with opportunities, but she soon realised that those very same opportunities were much harder to come by in India. 
 
 So she endeavoured to do something about it. “I wanted to bring some of the things I learnt abroad, and try and help out as much as I can,” she said in a chat with TOI.
 
 Late afternoon on Sunday, at Delhi’s  , Joya is organising ‘Khel Yatra’, a track meet featuring more than 150 marginalised boys and girls. For the event, she has partnered with several NGOs who work with underprivileged kids. 
 
 It’s a chance for these youngsters, aged between 9 and 16, to showcase their talents in track-and-field, a chance that is very rarely granted them.
 
 “We wanted to contact not so much the schools as the NGOs. We wanted those children who have not received many opportunities. So a lot of children have come directly from the slums,” Joya explained.
 
 The seeds of   were sown after a stint volunteering at a city school, run by her great-aunt’s NGO. “I was training a team there when I realised they had nothing to train for. I have been in so many competitions, I really wanted to provide them with an opportunity to have the same sort of friendly competition.
 
 “I enjoyed working with the kids so much, I could see their enthusiasm. I wanted to create an event which more people could experience.
 
 “And I thought running was ideal because you can just let everything out.” Joya, a class-XI student, should know, for she’s a promising athlete herself. 
 
 A 100m and 200m sprinter (with a penchant for the long jump to boot), she has been running since she was around 9.
 
 On Sunday, the 100m dash is on the schedule (alongside a few relays). And the response has been so heartening that Joya doesn’t want to turn anyone away. “I don’t want to deny anybody the opportunity after offering it to them.” But she recognises that Khel Yatra should, above all, be a fun day out for all involved, no matter that when pitted against each other, the youngsters’ competitive instincts will surely manifest.
 
 “I’ve gone through, like, 12 sports but running stuck – I just love running!” Through her labour of love, Joya will be hoping these kids embrace running the way she has. It could be the start of a beautiful journey.
 
 
