CHENNAI: Badrappa may have long retired as a corporal from one of the Army's artillery units, but today he's back to being financially independent and indulging the wanderlust in him. 

 The 64-year-old belongs to the small but thriving pool of drivers based out of the city working under Ola's 'Sainik' programme which hires  . 
 
 The cab aggregator has been actively running the programme alongside similar efforts from rival Uber India through its ' ' scheme. 
 
 Badrappa turns off the ignition for a few minutes to chat, pointing out that he was stationed across the country during the length of his career, starting from Hyderabad for his training to being posted in places across the country - like Pathankot, Jammu, Sikkim and Siliguri - with the 201 Rocket Artillery squadron. Badrappa, who enjoys being out on the road, confesses to being a travel junkie which makes the job suit him right down to the ground.
 
 "My family didn't agree at all, when I told them I wanted to work for Ola. But I could just not sit simply at home and do nothing. I'm not used to that and nor did I ever want to get used to that," explains Badrappa who came to Chennai two years ago to sign up with the cab aggregator. 
 
 The aggregator helped the drivers go through what it calls a 'reskilling programme' to get them acquainted with the technology framework of the app and make them learn the ropes. 
 
 On the  , Ola explains that a "majority of the service personnel, at the time of retirement are at an age where they have numerous unfinished domestic responsibilities, which necessitate their taking up a second occupation." 
 
 While he does the usual 8-10 trips a day, Badrappa says the bulk of his rides are from the app's 'outstation trip' mode, through which he continues to indulge his love for travel. 
 
 "I have visited Ooty, Hyderabad, and many interesting places and have a lot of fun talking to my passengers. It feels so fulfilling to earn money doing something I love," says the energetic Bangalore native, who has even learnt a whole lot of Tamil in between his adventures. 
 
