NASHIK:   are out with their list of demands for the candidates contesting the civic elections next month. 

 Most youth want Nashik to be developed as an IT industry and education hub, ruing the need to shift to Mumbai, Pune or Bengaluru in search of jobs. They complained that the city has retained its tag of a pensioner’s paradise and got left behind other cities in creating employment.
 
 “Most youth leave Nashik after completing SSC, HSC, while others leave after graduation. This is because Nashik has no entry-level IT or industry jobs for youth. The civic body needs to develop some policy to attract more IT companies,” said Aniket Raut, student of K K Wagh College of Engineering. 
 
 “If the civic body can start a botanical garden, a laser show, what’s wrong in starting an IT Park,” quizzed Poonam Jain, a commerce student.
 
 Some   felt the outgoing civic body concentrated more on senior citizens. Many   voters asked for a better drama theatre and art gallery.
 
 “Nashik has some of the best morning walk tracks, some open air gyms and garden. The civic body should bring some recreation facilities, develop riverfronts and bring some youthfulness to city,” said Vijay Kashyap, a resident of Gangapur road. 
 
 Vishwajeet Thange said that he had decided to vote for a candidate capable to bring better roads and street lights to my locality. “I will consider a candidate and not the party. I will vote for a person I know better in my ward,” he said. 
 
 In just a month, Komal Shelke will be walking inside a polling booth for the first time. She is thrilled by the thought that she has the power to decide the fate of the city for the next five years. “I think the city needs concrete infrastructure development. I will vote for candidates with proper development plan,” she said.
 
 Parag Suryawanshi does not like the fact that Nashik is always named after other major citie in the state such as Pune and Mumbai. “The city is far away from metro city-like developments and infrastructure. Only development I saw was during Kumbh Mela,” he said. 
 
 Swarali Deshpande felt that there are lessons to learn from the national government which is enjoying complete power due to the majority in the house. “On the state level, we are watching how alliance politics plays spoilsports. I think Nashikites should vote one party to majority. This is my first   and I have already decided whom to vote for,” she said.
 
