If twenties are for experiments, then it’s time to settle down when you reach the thirties. By that, we don’t mean that you need to bag a husband, house and kid. No. What a woman in her thirties should have is a mind and heart that know exactly what they want. And what they want are definitely not these   listed below — the kind that leaves you anything but settled... 

 1. 
  Leading someone on with no intention of forging a  , is the worst form of dating debauchery. This practice taken on a digital platform is called breadcrumbing. In this case, the man takes recourse to social media and chats to show just enough interest — with a sporadic like or a flirtatious but non-committal message — at regular intervals, so that you don’t forget him even as he remains non committal. And mindgames are definitely not something that you want at an age when you want to explore and evolve in life.
 
 2. 
 Self-explanatory, this is one man who’s is always busy with marathon business meetings and forging joint ventures with companies that are showing interest in his start-up. Now, more often than not, these are phantom phenomenon. He might actually be on to something but when you are approaching thirty, you probably are on to a lot of things of your own too — like a rocking career, a world-tour plan, plan to join an NGO and dancing away at your best friend’s wedding without being worried about just raising your stocks in the market.
 
 3.
  If your guy is still in this phase, R-U-N for your own good. Because he will never know and you will end up in the I-don’t-know-where-this-is-going zone forever. “I’ve had my time having fun with men. Right now, I am looking for some stability. Most men I meet are like, ‘let’s hang around and see where it goes. After a few months when it’s time to take it to the next step, they say, ‘Let’s just be friends’. That’s men-talk for, ‘I am not ready for the responsibility’. Aargh! I am so done with such men,” fumes Irani Banerjee, a media professional.
 
 4
 : He will always be the one who ‘settled’ for you. You don’t need a man to settle for you, do you? Says Priti Pallavi, a marketing manager, “I went through a nightmare with this guy. He was the class topper, in the good books of all the girls, got through IIT, got placed at a big firm and that was that. He started with this ‘I am the most eligible bachelor’ mantra. He is now getting married to one of his colleagues, who’s been approved by his parents. What I am not happy about is that in spite of knowing that he was this inconsiderate, narcissistic, Mama’s boy, I chose to ignore all of it.”
 
 5.
  He has a stubble, wears his hair long and flaunts a guitar in his profile pictures on his numerous social media profiles. Besides having a friend list of shady characters, he also posts pictures with a new girl every other day and calls all of them bae. The signs are all there. So, stay away from this type. And make a note to warn your daughter (if you do have one) in the future too. Gurpinder Randhawa, an HR professional, discovered this the hard way. “When approaching  , a woman tends to seek a responsible trustworthy guy instead of someone who can walk the talk and can’t live up to his words. No one deserves a guy who can’t be honest to his girl and cheats at every given chance. I don’t need a perfect one, I just need someone who can make me feel like I am the only one,” she says.
 
 6. 
 This type can creep you out completely. Does he belong to a cult? What is this fetish with your feet? When you were younger, you tried your best to show enthusiasm, but with time it just gets on your nerves. Faking it can come to our rescue once in a while, but making it the norm is certainly not what you are looking for, right? By now, you have seen it all and you pretty much know you will never be into it. So, give this one a miss.
 
 7.
  He is in a profession that entails meeting big names. And he keeps dropping these names to impress, not just you but everybody around you. It was cool and fun in the initial days, but after a point, it just got tiring. You wonder when he’ll have a story of his own to narrate. Adrija Bose, a college lecturer, recounts how she met a guy who couldn’t stop talking about the time he met a filmmaker. “He was this filmmaker’s neighbour. And I am sure, the filmmaker was just being nice and greeted him. Whatever the case, he just could not put a stop to it. He would keep talking about how this celebrity pampers him, trying to make me believe that they are the best of friends. I finally had to block him to stop this unending soliloquy.” Not everyone is star-struck, and not in your thirties for sure. If we wanted to date a celebrity, we would not be sitting here listening to your stories about them, right?”
 
 
 : In this digital age, if you are looking for a serious relationship, you have to be very careful. the anonymity associated with the digital platform is undermining the value of being responsible in a relationship. you must meet a person, spend time with that person, to judge whether or not he fits your idea of a relationship. forming a relationship based on the information available about the other person on the internet is not a good idea. - 
 
 
 
 
