GHAZIABAD: The mutilated body of a 14-year-old girl, who went missing on September 4, was found in a sugarcane field near Kalcheena village in Modinagar on Thursday night. The victim, Moonam Yadav, was allegedly murdered by five persons from her neighborhood who have been arrested.

 Lokender, a lawyer known to the victim’s family, said: “The girl, whose father Naresh Yadav is a vegetable vendor, lived in a rented flat in Modinagar’s Umesh Park which belonged to one Hari Om Sharma. Sharma, who is married, had befriended the girl and due to this the girl’s father shifted out of the house four months ago. However, Sharma kept on meeting the girl and threatened the family when they objected. It was because of this that he harboured enmity towards the family and killed her in a gruesome manner.”
 
 The girl went missing while going to school. Her father said, “We lodged a missing complaint with Modinagar police station and suspected Sharma, following which he was summoned to the police station. However, he was soon allowed to go because of his connections with a local politician. On September 6, we went with our neighbours to the police station but were shooed away.”
 
 But the family kept up the pressure following which Sharma was again summoned by police. “We called the accused on September 11. We checked phone records and confirmed that he regularly spoke to the girl. During interrogation, he confessed to the crime,” said Sanjay Verma, SHO, Modinagar police station, adding: “He along with four others, identified as Dharmender, Subash, Kapil and Harish, strangled her after luring her to a nearby forest in Kalcheena village and hid her body in a ditch.”
 
 The police then set out to trace the body and on Thursday discovered the decomposed, severed head of the girl. “On Friday, we discovered the torso after which the body has been sent for postmortem,” said Verma. “All five have been arrested under sections 302, 201, 120(b), 313, 366 and under POCSO provisions.”
 
 Meanwhile, SSP H N Singh suspended chowki-in charge of Shahbagh Nagar and has removed the SHO of Modinagar police station. “Prima facie it was found that there was laxity on the part of the police in handling the case. After conducting an inquiry, SHO Sanjay Verma has been removed and Sudhir Kumar, chowki in-charge of Shahbagh Nagar chowki has been suspended ” said H N Singh.
 
 
