Even by the remarkable standards of recent  , the latest campaign pledge from Punjab’s ruling   is in a class by itself. The right-leaning, Sikh-centric party promises to buy huge expanses of rich agricultural land in the USA and Canada (at least 100,000 acres) for the state’s famously hard working farming community to use. According to the party manifesto released earlier this week, “apart from helping our farmers in pursuing agriculture in economic farms, this will also enable Punjabis to secure permanent resident status in those countries”. In effect, the   is proposing to help its state’s citizens to migrate, and intends to look after them even after they have relocated to the West.

 Though immediately ridiculed by other political forces in Punjab, this bold and visionary idea has definite merits. For one thing, there are already hundreds of thousands of Punjabi farmers profitably working the land in a mind-boggling array of countries. In Italy, at least 60% of the workers who make the talismanic Parmigiano Reggiano cheese are Punjabi Sikhs. It’s widely understood they “saved Parmesan”. Further into Europe in the  , thousands of Punjabi families are busy reviving the agricultural sector left moribund after the collapse of Soviet collective agriculture. There are second-generation Sikh banana farmers in Australia, third-generation Sikh winemakers in British Columbia, and fourth-generation Sikh raisin magnates in California.
 
 In its manifesto, the Akali Dal has recognized a crucial fact. Migration can be beneficial to everyone — including the “home” society — and should be encouraged to take place in a structured manner. When individuals find greater opportunity, the state will inevitably become enriched by remittances, an increased knowledge base, and return investments. Citizenship and travel papers change, but cultural and economic bonds don’t have to wither or fade away. Punjab has wisely figured out that its sons and daughters remains potential Punjabi assets whether sitting in Chile or Chandigarh. The Akalis have acknowledged 21st century realities. They accept that human development can and should be sought out wherever best available on the globe, because identity and belonging are not zero sum games.
 
 Of all places in India, Goa should learn from this forward-thinking and mature approach. At least half the state’s citizens are born with the right to formalize Portuguese citizenship (an equivalent birthright would immediately empty most Indian states) and a few thousand choose to do so each year. Immediately, most unfairly, these Goans are trapped in no-man’s-land. They can’t vote. They can’t serve in government to represent their communities. If they move to another country, the Indian diplomatic infrastructure is no longer concerned about them. While Punjab encourages its citizens to migrate, with the understanding they will always be welcome to their homeland, Goa does the opposite. Even those who simply register their existence in Lisbon, with no intentions of ever leaving India, are unambiguously signalled that they’re no longer welcome.
 
 This blinkered attitude makes no sense. Every few years, India makes another long-overdue overture in the direction of dual citizenship, but then narrow-minded anxieties force withdrawal. In the case of Goa, there is a pressing moral imperative which involves a simple birthright. But there’s no logical explanation why all Indians should not enjoy the same privileges as the citizens of more than 60 other countries. Almost every major economic power in the world grants dual citizenship (so does Portugal). Sri Lanka, Bangladesh and Pakistan allow it without any perceptible problems. India’s stand is both unreasonable and outdated.
 
 A corollary positive development of the Akali Dal manifesto is Punjab’s willingness to direct international policy initiative on its own terms. Again, Goa would do well to emulate. For too long Goan interests abroad have been unhelpfully routed via the Centre, which consistently and wilfully ignores the specific needs of the citizens of India’s smallest state. In fact, there should be a Goa Sadan in Swindon, and a few more in the Middle East. Why isn’t there a senior bureaucrat dedicated to serving the vast cohort of Goans working on ships around the globe? Ever since the annexation of Goa into India, on the worst possible terms for the Goans, there has been a reflexive impulse to meekly accept terms imposed by a largely uncomprehending and insensitive Delhi bureaucracy. But it has been 55 years. What does not work deserves to be corrected. Punjab has made it clear it does not intend to suffer for the quirks and shortcomings of the Indian state. There’s no reason Goa can’t do the same.
 
 (
 
 
