New Delhi: Twenty four   of   district court complex have been asked to   why they failed to start court proceedings on time at 10am on August 31.

 Acting Chief Justice Gita Mittal has issued notices to the 24 judges, including district judges, sessions judges and magistrates, to furnish reasons why none of them were found seated on the dias during the surprise inspection conducted by top   judges on that date.
 
 In a letter dispatched by HC administration on Thursday and accessed by TOI, the judges have been given two weeks to reply so that HC can decide further course of action. Sources hinted at tough disciplinary action against all judges who fail to explain the delay.
 
 Rohini district courts cater to two judicial districts of the city, namely north and northeast and have a total of 63 judges as per the court website. On the day of the inspection, two judges were stated to be on leave, as per the preliminary findings of HC while 24 were not found on dias.
 
 “Pursuant to the inspection conducted by Honble judges at the six district courts on August 31, the Acting Chief Justice has been pleased to issue directions to call for explanation from the judges who did not commence court sittings at 10am on August 31 at the time of the inspection by the Honble judges of the HC,” the missive sent by HC administration says, asking for a response from the district judges.
 
 TOI has learnt that similar letters enlisting names of judges found sitting   across remaining five district courts has been prepared and is being sent for an explanation to district judges of each court complex.
 
 In a surprise move, six senior-most judges of Delhi HC had landed up on August 31 morning at the capital’s six district courts for inspections to check punctuality and discipline of judges in these courts.
 
 “The inspections began simultaneously at all district courts at sharp 10am to check punctuality, discipline and functioning of these courts,” DK Sharma, registrar general of the Delhi high court had then informed the media.
 
 While Justice Gita Mittal visited Patiala House courts, Justice Ravindra Bhat went to Tis Hazari courts, Justice Sanjiv Khanna to Rohini district courts, Justice G.S. Sistani to Karkardooma district courts, Justice S Muralidhar to Saket district courts and Justice Vipin Sanghi to Dwarka district courts.
 
