AURANGABAD: The newly-appointed commissioner of police Yashasvi Yadav, while conducting his   for policemen on Monday, issued an ultimatum to policemen asking them to not indulge in any kind of corruption.

 Making a public announcement before the policemen and back office staff at the police headquarters, Yadav said, “I don’t mind giving you cash rewards that are double than your salary but if you are found indulging in corrupt practices, you will face stringent action.”
 
 He also went on to warn the back office staff to abstain from corrupt practices and asked them to clear pendency within a week’s time. “I don’t want any pendency muster. Any delaying tactics by the back office staff in processing the applications and moving the files would attract suspension orders,” he said.
 
 The city police chief came down heavily on the back office staff after he found that there were several issues dating back over a decade and applications that were not acted upon for years together.
 
 Yadav asked the office superintendent to spend the last penny of funds received under different heads and asked them to immediately issue the pending cash rewards, TA, DA and regularise the leave of the policemen.
 
 After a traffic constable   raised an issue of his name being wrongly mentioned on the salary slip and pointed out that despite making applications for past couple of years nothing has been done, Yadav took the staffers to task and pointed out that even his name has been misspelled on the name plate kept on the table.
 
 In another case, a head constable posted with the   raised an issue pointing out that the education loan of Rs 50,000 has not been approved for three years. Taking cognisance of the complaint, Yadav issued orders to process the education loan file within 24 hours and sanction the loan.
 
 Another traffic constable posted with the Cidco division raised an issue, wherein his instalment of the loan he has taken against GPF should have been Rs 2,000 but for the past two years, Rs 5,000 is being deducted.
 
 This was followed by a head constable   of City Chowk pointing out that an amount of Rs 6,000 was deducted as GPF from his salary in the year 2003 but it has not been deposited in the GPF.
 
 Taking serious cognisance of the issue pending since 2003, Yadav not only granted the head constable a day’s leave to go along the clerk to Nagpur but also asked him to not to make travel expenses from his pocket but instead avail facility of official tour.
 
 Apart from this, Yadav turned down many requests of mid-term transfers from one police station to other. He also assured of taking up the issue of the dilapidated buildings and quarters of the policemen and promised of repairing them within no time. 
 
