Cuttack: Albert Roca and Dave Rogers have a lot in common. Both played the role of central defenders in their playing days, it is their first season in India at the helm of a club, and they are the only foreign coaches right now in the top flight of Indian football.

 But there is a big difference in the current position of their teams. In spite of losing their I-League crown to Aizawl FC, Roca’s   finished the season in fourth position while Rogers-coached Shivajians ended seventh on the table, which is still an improvement from their ninth-place finish last season.
 
 And there is going to be a difference in pressure on both teams when they lock horns in Group B of   here on Wednesday. While BFC began their campaign with a 3-2 victory over Shillong Lajong, Shivajians endured a 4-0 hammering at the hands of defending champions Mohun Bagan in their opening tie. This makes Wednesday’s match a must-win tie for the Englishman-coached side if they are to advance to the semifinals. 
 
 But if Bengaluru’s performance in the last match is anything to go by, Shivajians may find it tough to pick up three points from the match. Roca’s frontline, comprising Sunil Chhetri and youngster Udanta Singh, followed by the attacking skills of Eugeneson Lyndoh, will keep the Shivajian backline on their toes. They will also have the services of newly-signed Trinidad & Tobago striker Glen Cornell.
 
 It will take the creativity of the Shivajian midfield comprising Sanju Pradhan, Milan Singh and skipper Juan Barraso to give their strikers — Holicharan Narzary and Korean Kim Song Yong — any chance of breaking the staunch defence of the Bangaluru side.
 
 Rogers also has the additional headache regarding goalkeeper Subrata Paul. While there has not been any verdict on the accusation of doping by the India goalkeeper and he is available for selection in this tournament, the coach chose not to give him the jersey in the first match and played second-choice keeper Soram Poirei against Bagan. Poirei’s decent show was a matter of relief for Rogers but with Roca’s men hoping to all but seal their   spot with a victory against Shivajians, things may turn out to be a lot tougher this time around. 
 
 
