NEW DELHI: As many as 25   of   are reported every day in the capital, but   does not have a law to deal with this crime. So, strange as it may sound, to deal with cases of bags and mobiles being grabbed by robbers, cops take recourse to two sections of the Indian Penal Code: theft and using criminal force during theft. 

 Neighbouring Haryana, realising the need to curb the growing menace of street crime, amended its rulebook to deal with snatchings. There, two additions to Section 379 dealing with theft — 379 A and 379 B — make snatching a non-bailable crime. The Haryana government also recently proposed a reward for information on snatchers.
 
 Delhi   too has been contemplating a similar addition to the law, but things have not gone beyond conception. The cops admit that things could get better if the law was amended. In the capital, snatchers are currently booked under Sections 379 (theft) and 356 (assault or criminal force during theft). Maximum punishment under the first section is three years. Under the second, it’s two years.
 
 Chain snatchings are provisionally registered under Section 392 (robbery) which provides for 10 years of rigorous imprisonment and a fine. But police concede that most cases registered under this section have fallen flat in court for lack of evidence. 
 
 Till May 31 this year, 3,717 cases of snatching were reported compared with 4,255 in the corresponding period last year. Even though the figure has gone down, there is at least one case being reported every hour.
 
 “Snatching cases have poor conviction rate as most victims do not pursue the case, and often suspects are not identified through the test identification parade,” said an investigator. “Often, snatchers have helmets on, while the motorcycles and phone used in the crime turn out to be stolen, making identification of the robbers difficult.”
 
 Another roadblock is the practice of snatchers melting the gold chains they rob, leaving no case property to prove the police case. “The accused usually are freed within a few months in most cases,” added the investigator.
 
 To add to the woes, cops have realised that they can no longer expect known groups or individuals committing the crime. Till some years ago, small-time liquor smugglers were often involved in snatchings. “When crimes under the Excise Act became non-bailable, many smugglers from the Saansi community shifted to snatching,” pointed out a police officer. “Now, many of those involved include college and school students.”
 
 In Haryana, Section 379A has made snatching punishable with rigorous imprisonment for a term not less than five years which may extend to 10 years and a fine of Rs 25,000. Section 379B provides for a rigorous imprisonment not less than 10 years extendable to 14 years and fine of Rs 25,000.
 
 Both cops and legal experts TOI spoke to asserted that replicating Haryana's amendments could help curb street crime in the capital.
 
