AHMEDABAD: They got words of sympathy from politicians from across India. Some gave them financial help too. Their brutal thrashing by so-called ‘gau rakshaks’ also led to them getting caste certificates to prove they were from a scheduled caste (SC). One year after the Sarvaiya family hit the headlines after they were publicly flogged, they are yet to get  that will guarantee them subsidized foodgrain while they struggle to cope after giving up their traditional skinning profession. 

  Balu Sarvaiya, the father of Ramesh and Vashram, who were flogged along with their cousins Ashok and Bechar, rued that despite politicians flocking to their house in   after the issue was raised in the Rajya Sabha, it did not lead to their financial and social uplift.
 
 “When former CM   came here, she promised us and other villagers BPL cards and toilets at every house in the village. As you know, ‘sarkari’ promises remain only on paper,” said Sarvaiya.
 
 “We made a toilet at our own expense and we are still waiting for the government aid of Rs 12,000 to be deposited in our account,” Sarvaiya said, adding that only four of the 25 dalit families in   got assistance to build toilets. The Sarvaiyas got a certificate, showing them as members of a scheduled caste (SC) after the attack, as it was needed for the legal procedure around the flogging case. 
 
 This is because the police (CID) recommended that the taluka development officer (TDO) at Una provide the certificates to the Sarvaiya family, because it was needed to file an FIR under the Prevention of Atrocities Act. The family finally got the certificates on July 25.
 
 “As the complainant and witnesses belong to a scheduled caste, it is requested to provide them certificate of schedule caste immediately,” reads the letter from deputy superintendent of police K G Saradva to the taluka development officer of Una in Gir Somnath district.
 
 Four days before the Sarvaiyas got the certificate, the then CM Anandiben Patel had visited them and promised them and other villagers BPL cards and a toilet in each house.
 
 Kaushik Parmar, a dalit activist, said the Una victims were given SC certificates because it was mandatory for the legal procedure, but if the government really wants their welfare, they should be immediately provided BPL cards.
 
