Mysuru: Expressing their opposition to incidents of violence against medical personnel, more than a hundred   associated with Indian Medical Association (IMA), Mysuru held a day-long Satyagraha on Monday. In what was a markedly Gandhian gesture, the protesters ate nothing for the entire duration of the protest – from 10am to 6pm – that was held at the IMA premises on Sayyaji Rao Road.

 Demanding that the central government implement the recommendations of an inter-ministerial panel that was constituted to look into a range of medical issues, including cases of attack on healthcare personnel, the protesting doctors also sought the passage of the Central Hospital Protection Act, which they said would guarantee their safety.
 
 The other issues that the inter-ministerial committee is looking include amendments to the Pre-Conception and Pre-Natal Diagnostic Techniques Act, the Consumer Protection Act aimed at capping compensation amount and prohibitions on allowing non-MBBS and non-BDS doctors to prescribe allopathic medicine.
 
 President of IMA, Mysuru Dr Vishweshwar MS told TOI that their non-violent protest was planned to coincide with Gandhi Jayanti. “Incidents of violence against doctors are increasing at an alarming rate, and doctors are finding it hard to discharge their duties. Small hospitals on the outskirts of the city are faced with the prospect of closure owing to rising incidents of violence. There is an imminent need for the government to bring in rules and legislations to prevent attacks on doctors and hospitals,” he added.
 
 Dr Vishweshwar also highlighted the dangers of AYUSH doctors prescribing modern medicine, which he opined was unsafe. “Medical services continued as usual today, and we treated all patients,” he said.
 
 Meanwhile, IMA, Mysuru secretary Dr Sujatha Rao lamented that the government was spending a meager 1.1% of the country’s GDP on healthcare. “This is the lowest in the world. Budgetary allocation for healthcare needs to be increased,” she said.
 
 
