NOIDA: Business   of  , who attacked his business partner’s family and inflicted injuries on himself, said they had known him for several years and could not believe he could behave in such a manner.   had never showed signs of pent-up emotions that suggested he could ever get so violent.

 Jolly (45), a native of Agra, had shifted his base to Mayur Vihar Phase 1, some 20 years ago. Jolly’s business partner Ajay Khurana was also based in the neighbourhood and they had first met over a property dealing. Jolly’s expertise complemented Khurana’s skills and they started business together.
 
 Jolly worked from Khurana’s office — A S Properties — as he had no personal office. Jolly lived with his mother, wife and 12-year old son in   while Khurana’s family lived in Pocket 4. Jolly’s wife Meenu works as a teacher in a private school.
 
 The Khurana family later bought a bungalow in Noida’s Sector 39 and shifted four years ago. Khurana’s two sons, Amit and Ankush, helped him in the business at the Mayur Vihar office.
 
 Tuli Mukesh, a business friend, said Jolly and Khurana were known as good business friends and always shared good relations. “In the last few months we came to know that they had some differences. Jolly had started making frequent visits to Khurana’s office in the last few days,” he said. Mukesh said the business friends feel there was some business dispute but they did not know the exact reason behind the incident.
 
 Jolly, meanwhile, remained critical with a fractured skull in Kailash Hospital, Sector 27. Doctors said he was on life support and would undergo surgery on Friday. V B Joshi, spokesperson for Kailash Hospital, said Jolly was being treated by doctors from the department of neurosurgery and plastic surgery. “The doctors are trying to stabilise him so as to perform surgery. The injury on his head has been inflicted by some blunt object,” Joshi said.
 
 Dr Devvart Mukherjee, department of neurosurgery, and plastic surgeon Dr Pradeep Bhargava said there was no improvement in his health.
 
 
