Mumbai: In a clear uptrading of consumers in edible oils, even as those categorised under the high Socio Economic Classification (SEC) A and B are the main drivers of packaged edible oils in the country, increasingly, consumers from SECs C, D & E — the mid-to-lower categories — are converting to packaged edible oils from traditional loose oils.

 On the other hand, with growing health consciousness, premium oils priced upwards of Rs 110 a litre are sourcing gains from loose oils as well as mid-priced packaged oils. This has gradually resulted in the bridging of the gap between premium oils and other packaged oils, said industry experts. The average consumption of premium oils is 1.2 litres per household per month, while the average consumption of other packaged oils stands at 1.59 litres/household/month.
 
 According to IMRB data on edible oils, consumption of packaged edible oils is on the rise while that of loose oils has declined. In 2016 (January-December volumes in terms of litres per household member), all India urban plus rural average consumption of packaged edible oils rose to 4.6 as compared with 4 in 2015. On the other hand, loose oils consumption declined to 4.5 from 4.6.
 
 Sudhakar Desai, CEO,  , which recently launched its ‘Emami Healthy and Tasty’ brand nationally — and which is a leader in West Bengal — said, “SECs B and C show distinct trend of upgradation to premium variants of edible oil. Due to a constant trend of users upgrading themselves to premium variant, by the law of averages only, usage of premium   does not get significantly affected by any healthy lifestyle trend. Moreover, even among the premium oil users, the number of less oil users is also very niche. With fast changing lifestyles and health awareness, demand shift to premium/healthy oils will increase at a faster phase.”
 
 Desai said consumption of   commands a share of around 38% in the entire edible oil market in India, mainly driven by SEC A and B users. The premium variants among the packaged edible oils have higher penetration among these two segments of users, which accounts for almost a fifth of the total packaged oil users in India.
 
 The industry data reveals how the growth in urban SECs A & B household consumption of packaged edible oils has grown, while loose oils has dropped. However, in SEC D/E, while the consumption of packaged edible oils has risen, that of loose oils has remained unchanged.
 
 According to Saugata Gupta, MD & CEO,  , which markets ‘Saffola’ edible oil, premium oils are expected to grow fast since this segment is maturing through penetration. Current household penetration of any premium oil is 21%, with huge headroom for growth. “Beyond this, given the health consciousness wave sweeping the country and changing consumer mindset, the premium health segment is seeing high traction and household growth, especially in higher SECs in larger cities. At an average level, SECs A, B and C all consume higher packaged edible oil rather than loose edible oil. Packaged edible oil consumption has gone up across all SECs. Loose edible oil consumption remains largely the same across all SKUs (stock keeping units) except SEC C (where it has declined).”
 
 
