BENGALURU: With the number of domestic tourists visiting   shooting up by 2.1 crore between 2013 and 2015, the state government has decided to focus on developing budget hotels.

 The state government is preparing to draw more investors to the budget-tourism segment ahead of the summer vacation. State   minister   told TOI: “Karnataka ranks high in terms of attracting domestic tourists and we are working towards creating tourism infrastructure that provides quality experience and is affordable.Karnataka offers an array of tourism themes and the state is ideal for investors interested in the hotel and tourism industry.“
 
 Karnataka is not only known for heritage tourism but also for coastal, eco-tourism and adventure tourism among domestic tourists. A tourism department official said: “The focus till now was on attracting capital-intensive projects in the tourism sector. But the changing profile of tourists visiting the state has made the government rethink on its tourism promotion strategy.“ Karnataka is among the top 5 states that attract investment proposals in the tourism sector.“But we need to scale up and be on top,“   said.
 
 The domestic tourist inflow into Karnataka has seen a growth rate of 6% per annum in recent years and Karnataka has been ranked fourth among the states in terms of attracting domestic tourists. In 2015, Karnataka drew 11.98 crore domestic tourists and 6.3 lakh foreign tourists. According to  's `Karnataka: An emerging tourist destination' report, the state has the potential to attract more than 15.1crore domestic tourists by the end of 2019.
 
 The increase in domestic tourists is a nation-wide phenomenon. The number of domestic tourists has increased from 66.7 million in 1991 to 864.5 million in 2011 and touched 1,432 million in 2015. Some of the reasons for the spurt in travel are rise in disposable incomes and the interest to explore the country.
 
 Kharge said: “More youngsters travel these days.Though there is a surge in the growth of budget brands in the tourism sector, there is scope for more players. Affordability will be a key factor that will make the difference.“ Kharge added that government was keen to encourage the budget hotel segment in the coastal tourism circuit.
 
