NEW DELHI: As she convulsed in pain on the hospital bed,   conveyed her last wish – the   must pay, they should be burnt alive, not just hanged.

 Usha Chaturvedi, the then sub-divisional magistrate who recorded her dying declaration, recalled her last words on Friday, hours after the 
  .
 
 “Today, I am very happy and satisfied that these people will be hanged. Nirbhaya’s dying   was given under great pain and stress. Yet, she didn’t leave out any point so that justice could be done,” Chaturvedi told TOI after the judgment.
 
  
  
 
 The officer spoke with Nirbhaya on December 21, following her first surgery, when for a brief period, she could answer questions and narrate her ordeal in detail. Through gestures and words, Chaturvedi disclosed, Nirbhaya conveyed to her the extent of anger and revulsion she felt. “She gave me information that formed a four-page dying declaration in one sitting. Despite being in so much pain, she said the rapists should not just be hanged but (also) set on fire,” the SDM recalled.
 
 In its verdict, SC acknowledged the crucial role played by the dying declaration that allowed investigators to nab the accused and prepare a case. As the judgment showed, every time the defence lawyers or the court-appointed amicus curiea cast doubts on the prosecution story, the bench turned to the dying declaration, which, in a way, formed the bedrock of the case.
 
 “The stand that the deceased could not have given any dying declaration because of her health condition has to be repelled because the witnesses who have stated about the dying declarations have stood embedded to their version and nothing has been brought on record to discredit the same. That apart, the dying declaration by gestures has been proved beyond reasonable doubt,” it further observed, referring to the three statements Nirbhaya gave. First was to the doctor who treated her, second was to the SDM and third – by gestures -- to a metropolitan magistrate.
 
 In their appeal, the four convicts had claimed that Nirbhaya could not have given such a lengthy dying declaration running up to four pages as she was on oxygen support -- an argument rejected by SC.
 
 
 
