VARANASI: Taking turns to attack prime minister   on Saturday, chief minister Akhilesh Yadav and Congress vice president   said it was time the people of Kashi taught the BJP and Modi a lesson, and making them pay for all the promises they had made but never delivered on.

 Addressing a public rally at Girijaghar chauraha, where Akhilesh, Rahul and Kannauj MP Dimple Yadav concluded their 8-km-long road show, Rahul, who has been using one film analogy after another to attack the PM referred to   blockbuster ‘Don’ and said it’s iconic dialogue applied to the prime minister. “Modi ji ke jumlon ko rokna mushkil hi nahin naamumkin hai,” Rahul said, as the crowds cheered.
 
 Rahul also raked up Modi’s promise to clean the Ganga as well as Varanasi city, and added that the PM had failed the people of Kashi on both counts.
 
 Akhilesh, on the other hand, also took a pot shot at Modi for not having delivered on any promise he made to the people of Varanasi. He said, “Modiji says the people of Kashi will give us an electric shock. But he claims to be the son of Ganga Maiyya. And I ask him to swear on Ganga Maiyya and tell everyone whether or not we deliver 24-hour power supply to Kashi. I want to tell him the real ‘electric’ shock will be delivered to him.”
 
 Akhilesh also brought up the controversy the BJP raked up around Rahul’s comments on ‘coconut juice’ from Manipur being exported from India. While the Congress VP has not countered Modi, Akhilesh, as a part of the new SP-Congress friendship, came ou in his support. He said, “Modi ji pineapple to nariyal bol dete hain. Saavdhaan rehna Kashi waalon, matthha pitey ho to bhang bol denge. Aise hi Kyoto boley the. Kya kisi ne Japan ke Kyoto ko dekha? (Modi couldn’t tell the difference between pineapple and coconut. People of Kashi should beware; you may be drinking ‘Matthha’ but he will call it ‘Bhang’. He promised Kyoto here. But has anyone seen the Japanese Kyoto yet?)”.
 
 Akhilesh and Rahul also asked the crowds to support the SP and Congress candidates in Varanasi and said the SP government, if re-elected, will do more work for the people of the state. Kannauj MP Dimple Yadav, who also joined the roadshow on Saturday – accompanying Rahul and Akhilesh on a campaign for the first time also appealed to the people of Varanasi to vote for the SP-Congress alliance and to re-appoint Akhilesh as the chief minister.
 
 
