PUNE: A   procedure was successfully performed in Pune on Sunday evening, making it only the third city after Mumbai and Aurangabad in the state to have achieved this feat.

 Despite having a dedicated heart   centre in place, Pune had not been able to perform this surgery because it didn’t get the necessary permission till as late as December last year and thereafter for want of a suitable donor. Incidentally, since 2015, the city has donated a total of 10 hearts that gave a new lease of life to patients in Mumbai, New Delhi and Chennai.
 
 The relatives of a 14-year-old boy from Osmanabad, who suffered cardiac arrest following strenuous exercise and was declared brain-dead, donated his heart and other vital organs at a hospital in Solapur on Sunday morning. 
 
 The heart was airlifted in a chartered aircraft and transported to   through a green corridor. The coordinated transport of the vital organ covered the distance of 252 km in 86 minutes. The heart was successfully transplanted into a 49-year-old woman who has been suffering from end-stage cardiomyopathy (diseases of the heart muscle) since 2014.
 
 “The heart recipient is stable. The transplanted heart is beating normally,” said doctors involved the surgery. The heart transplant was carried out by a team of doctors comprising transplant surgeons K R Balakrishnan, Manoj Durairaj and   Khanijo and cardiac surgeon Ranjeet Jagtap.
 
 Bomi Bhote, chief executive officer (CEO) of Ruby Hall Clinic, said, “We called in Dr Balakrishnan from Chennai to guide, mentor and carry out the surgery with our transplant surgeons. The surgery has been successful.”
 
 The recipient had enrolled for a heart transplant at Ruby Hall Clinic two months ago. “Her husband runs a small shop in Sangola, a small town in Solapur district. She stays with her son who works in a private company in Pune,” said Surekha Joshi, transplant coordinator at Ruby Hall Clinic. 
 
 The donor, son of a labourer in Osmanabad, suffered a cardiac arrest around 9 pm on March 2 and was rushed to the civil hospital there. He was practising football during the afternoon hours for the last three days.
 
 Following the cardiac arrest, the boy had suffered hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy, or HIE, which is a brain injury caused by oxygen deprivation. He was shifted to Narmada hospital in Solapur for further treatment under the care of nephrologist Sandeep Holkar at around 4 pm on March 4. 
 
 “I recognised that the boy was brain dead and asked relatives whether they were willing to donate his vital organs. His father surprisingly knew about organ donation and gave the consent. Since we do not have permission for organ retrival at our hospital, I shifted him to Ashwini Rural Medical College at Kumbhari in Solapur at around 11 pm on March 4. We followed medico-legal procedures and declared him brain dead at around 11.59 pm on March 4. I then informed the Zonal Transplant Coordination Committee (ZTCC) in Pune,” Holkar said.
 
 Pune’s ZTCC transplant coordinator Aarti Gokhale said, “Soon after the family gave its consent to donate the organs at around 7 am on Sunday, we allocated the heart to Ruby Hall Clinic, the liver to Deenanath Mangeshkar hospital and a kidney to Noble hospital in Pune. The heart was sent by air and the liver and kidney by road. After reaching the Lohegaon airport, the heart was transported in an ambulance to Ruby Hall Clinic through a green corridor which covered the 8-km distance in just six minutes.”
 
