HYDERABAD: The arrival of summer may be synonymous with vacations for students, but many teachers dread this time.

 The reason being they are forced to double up as marketing agents to increase the intake of students for the next academic year. In some cases, salaries are put on hold and teachers asked to forgo summer vacations if they fail to complete the set 'targets.' “All staff members are hereby reminded that the target fixed for each staff is 10 admissions and this target should be completed by April 25 as the staff is supposed to attend a workshop and avail summer holidays in the month of May . However, it is noticed that some staff did not even complete single admissions till date and are advised to complete at least 6 to 7 admissions by March 25, failing which their salaries will be kept on hold,“ read a circular of a top corporate school.
 
 The circular of the school, which also trains students for IIT and  , further says, “The given target should be completed without fail by April 25, if not staff, including non-teaching staff, will not be permitted to avail summer holidays.“
 
 Teachers for their part said this 'compulsion' has been increasing their stress levels and taking a toll on their health. “In spite of going on a door-to-door campaign in our locality, I am unable to meet the target set by my school. This uncertainty of whether or not I will get this month's salary is giving me sleepless nights, which in turn is affecting my health,“ said Shailaja M, a private school teacher.
 
 While students who appear for class 10 final exams are hounded by teachers or some consultants to take admission in junior colleges, they come on house visits to convince parents of junior classes with discount in fees.
 
 “This is my first year teaching and I enjoyed it thoroughly till this month when I was asked to get a certain number of admissions.Now, I am seriously thinking of reconsidering my decision to become a teacher,“ said Prashanti S, another private teacher.
 
 Activists called for an end to the commercialisation of education and said that government should intervene and stop this practice.
 
 “We strongly condemn the attitude of corporate and private schools that are turning teachers into sales persons. Fixing targets and asking them to go door-to-door and get more admissions is degrading their profession.This is total commercialization of the education and an unethical practice and government should make sure that such practices are not followed,“ said Achyuta Rao, a child rights activist.
 
 
 
 
 A teacher's job is to impart quality education and not recruit students. It's unfortunate that several schools have turned them into marketing agents. It is time the government puts an end to this practice by taking strong action.
 
