PATNA: The   on Saturday submitted a memorandum to governor  , seeking dismissal of state ministers Abdul   and Shivchandra Ram for commercial utilisation of their government bungalows as banquet halls for marriage ceremonies.

 The delegation led by leader of opposition in legislative council Sushil Kumar Modi and former BJP state chief and MLC Mangal Pandey alleged the ministers have been using the bungalows as banquet halls for over a year, which is against government norms.
 
 JD (U) MLA   Singh is also using his government bungalow as banquet hall for wedding ceremonies, the delegation alleged. 
 
 “We have requested the governor to intervene in the matter and direct CM Nitish Kumar to sack the two ministers. Besides, a police complaint should be lodged against the two ministers and the JD (U) legislator and the earnings made from the bungalows so far should be deducted from their salaries,” Modi said after coming out of the   in the evening. 
 
 The bungalow of Ghafoor is located on   while those of Shivchandra and Narendra are located on Strand Road. 
 
 The bungalows are allocated to the legislators and ministers by the state legislature secretariat, but the state building construction department looks after the development and upkeep of all government buildings, including these bungalows. A department official told TOI that commercial utilization of residential government property could lead to forceful eviction of the occupant.
 
 Many moneyed Patnaies, wishing to make their family’s wedding ceremonies a lavish affair, opt for these sprawling bungalows as the marriage venue. 
 
 According to a wedding planner, so spacious is the compound of these bungalows that a dining area can be created to accommodate up to 1,500 guests. A separate ‘mandap’ area can accommodate another 200 to 300 people.
 
 “We offer an array of pandal themes to choose from to the customers who have any of these government bungalows as the marriage venue,” said another wedding planner.
 
