Pune: The civic body has sent notices to 4,307 housing societies and public and commercial establishments and recovered Rs 1.13 lakh penalty from them for not clearing the mosquito-breeding spots on their premises.

 The insect control department of the   (PMC) cracked the whip as these establishments posed a health risk for people living in and around by not clearing the spots despite previous warnings.
 
 The department identified the buildings during the house-to-house survey between June 19 and July 28. The survey by the civic body entails examination of housing societies, independent bungalows and commercial and public establishments across 15 ward office areas. 
 
 As many as 85 people tested positive for dengue last week, taking the number of patients to 480 so far this year. Of these cases, 86 were reported by government-designated laboratories, sentinel centres and National Institute of Virology (NIV). The remaining 394 instances were reported by private hospitals and the civic body’s health department described those as “suspected cases”. Its argument was the rampant use of the rapid test kit — report of which is not considered confirmatory. 
 
 Apart from dengue, the PMC has recorded 120 confirmed cases of chikungunya so far this year.
 
 “In the notice, we directed the housing societies, commercial, public, private establishments and the independent bungalows to clear the mosquito-breeding spots within 24 hours. Most complied with the orders soon after the notice was issued. We will file criminal cases against those who have failed to do so,” said Kalpana Baliwant, head of the insect control department.
 
 Mosquitoes breed primarily in containers such as earthen jars, metal drums and concrete cisterns used for domestic water storage, as well as discarded plastic food containers, vehicle tyres and other items that collect rainwater.
 
 “People need to be extra careful and vigilant,” Baliwant said, adding that proper solid waste disposal and improved water storage practices should be followed to check the spread of dengue.
 
 In the last few days, civic health officials have issued notices to police stations, hospitals, a telecommunication company, education board offices and some PMC-run bus depots and other establishments in connection with the mosquito breeding spots. 
 
 Accounting for 90 chikungunya cases till May this year, Pune continues to be the hotbed of mosquito-borne disease in the state.
 
  This accounts for 81% of the state's disease burden, stated a report of the state health department has revealed. In 2016, Pune had earned the dubious distinction of recording about 92% of the state's chikungunya cases and ranked second in terms of dengue incidences in Maharashtra.
 
  A 32-year-old woman doctor died of dengue fever-induced multi-organ failure soon after she had delivered a baby at   in   last month.
 
  The state government recently decided to set up a special death committee to review each death that reportedly occurs due to the H1N1 virus, especially in private hospitals. This came in the wake of complaints of improper treatment at private hospitals. The health department also directed the directed the PMC’s health department to conduct mosquito-breeding surveillance at all public and private hospitals located within the civic limits. 
 
 Incidentally, an entomological survey carried out at state-run hospitals across the state two years ago had found dengue-causing mosquitoes at 56 health hubs out of the total 370 surveyed. 
 
 
