PUNE: The Bombay High Court has directed a final year   student of   here to pay Rs 10 lakh to the state government for availing the other backward class ( ) quota benefit against a non-creamy layer ( ) certificate obtained by making false representation. 

 The HC bench comprising Justice V M Kanade and Justice P R Bora made scathing remarks in a judgment on May 5 against the girl's father - a financially well-off surgeon who owns a well-equipped 16-bed hospital - for making an "undesired attempt" at securing the NCL for her daughter.
 
 "We regretfully state that such a well-placed person did make such an undesired attempt, which has resulted in depriving one genuine and deserving candidate from getting the admission in a government medical college for an MBBS course," the bench said. 
 
 The court referred to the findings of an inquiry panel that examined the veracity of the student's NCL, and a tehsildar's report on her father's economic status vis-a-vis the Rs 1 crore hospital building with more than 25 staffers and modern diagnosis and treatment facilities. The father had even participated in an auction for a 714 sq mt plot, worth over Rs 1.56 crore, belonging to   (MIDC). "We have purposely mentioned all these facts so as to indicate that such a person had opted for the NCL certificate and initially had succeeded in securing the same," the bench said.
 
 The HC confirmed a February 10, 2014 order by the Pune district collector cancelling the student's NCL certificate.
 
 However, relying on a set of   rulings which held that disturbing the educational career or employment of a candidate, which has become final with the passage of time, will not be in the interest of anyone, the HC allowed the student to complete her studies on the condition that she will never claim OBC quota benefit for future studies or for employment. In case of any violation, the state can recall her degree(s), the bench said, while directing the student to furnish an undertaking to this effect in the HC.
 
 During the pendency of the student's petition against the district collector's impugned (under challenge) order, the HC had passed an interim order allowing her to continue with her studies. 
 
