BATHINDA: After the   in Malout town of   started a drive earlier this week to recover dues by shaming the  , now the officials of the Bathinda rural water supply department have begun putting up lists of those who have their bills pending.

 Rural water supply officials on Wednesday visited Teona, Meean, Multania and Baho Sivia villages and collected Rs 43,000 from defaulters.
 
 The teams started a door-todoor drive in villages to recover the dues, some of which are pending for 15 years. After   (PSPCL) started snapping power supply to waterworks, officials of the water supply board also started a drive to recover dues.
 
 The water supply and sewerage board owes over Rs 300 crore to PSPCL, while the Bathinda block owes Rs 2 crore to it.There are 40 villages in Bathinda block that have lost power connection to the waterworks due to non-payment of bills.
 
 The rural water supply department's Bathinda sub-divisional officer (SDO) Manpreet Singh Arshi said the department got Rs 900 per year from users in the villages and several defaulters owe over Rs 15,000, which means they had not paid the bills for over 15 years. “Now that the PSPCL has started snapping power supply , we had to tighten grip over the defaulters. We have prepared the lists of defaulters, and these are being put up at the waterworks to shame them. Also, our officials are visiting door-to-door and if anyone fails to pay the bill, we will pass over the complaints to police for action,“ he added.
 
 Meanwhile,   (PPEA) has sought the state government's intervention for lowering electricity tariff. It also suggested that power meters be shifted from homes and installed on pillar boxes.
 
 
 
 
 The drive is not going down well with villagers. “For over a decade, no official ever visited us and never demanded money. The politicians used to tell us that the water usage is free. Now all of a sudden the officials have started visiting us and threaten to inform the police if bills are not paid. We have no money to pay. It is sheer injustice with us,“ said Multania village resident Karamjit Kaur.
 
