PATNA: In light of the guidelines of the   (NCTE),   (PU) will conduct a joint entrance test for admission to its two-year BEd course this year. The university has also asked Patna Women’s College ( ) not to hold a separate BEd entrance test as it did last year.

 In a circular issued by PU on Saturday, it has been clarified that the courses are approved by the governor only after the recommendation of the statutory bodies of the university and are not meant for any individual unit. The academic calendar committee of PU has already resolved to seek online application through a single window system as per the digital programme of the Government of India for all the courses at PU.
 
 The circular further states that except BEd and BCom, all entrance tests and other formalities like final selection of candidates will be processed by the colleges concerned. As such, PWC like other units will also conduct entrance tests for all the self-financing courses except BEd and BCom. “It is mandatory for PU to conduct a common BEd entrance test of all the colleges, including PWC,” PU registrar G K Palei said.
 
 So far as the admission calendar of PU is concerned, the online sale of application forms for admission to all the undergraduate (UG) and postgraduate (PG) courses both under conventional and self-financing schemes will start on April 3. The last day for online sale and submission of forms is May 2. While admission to the UG and most self-financing courses (both at the UG and PG levels) will be made through entrance tests to be held on different dates in May and June, admission to the regular PG courses will be made on the basis of marks obtained in the graduation exam.
 
 The common entrance test for admission to BCom honours course in Vanijya Mahavidyalaya, Patna Women’s College and Magadh Mahila College will be held on May 9, while that for BA honours course on May 13. The common entrance test for BSc honours in different colleges will be on May 16. The entrance test for admission to BEd and LLB courses will be held on May 20 and May 29 respectively.
 
