BENGALURU: Over 10,000 students. 1,266 teams. 36 hours. On Saturday, the hacks of India got to work, hunching over to stitch codes for digital solutions for the government, at the grand finale of  .

 In  , three nodal centres were chosen to conduct the event --   in Yelahanka, Bengaluru, BVB College of Engineering and Technology, Hubballi, and   (Manipal University).
 
 The initiative is jointly organized by the ministry of human resource development (MHRD) and All India Council of Technical Education (AICTE).
 
 Students, mostly from engineering and management colleges, will be working on digital ideas for various ministries, to improve the functioning and governance of different government departments. 
 
 SVCE, Bengaluru, is hosting 66 teams competing with each other to come up with answers to problem points highlighted by the department of defence production. “The teams have been given 17 problems to solve and come up with ideas to improve the development and production of weapons and automobiles, among other points. It will be an all-night affair. They will have energy drinks to sustain them,” Nageshwar Gupta, nodal officer at SVCE for the hackathon, told STOI. The college is the second largest venue among the 26 selected nodal centres across the country.
 
 The event, inaugurated on Saturday morning, had video speeches by AICTE chairman Prof Anil D Sahasrabudhe, and MHRD minister Prakash Javadekar. The finale of the   will see participants coding for 36 hours straight, and coming to an end at 8.30pm Sunday.
 
 Present at the centre to encourage students were Brig Pradeep Arora, ministry of defence, Gowthama, CMD- BEL, Rajeev Agrawal, general manager (IT), HAL, Adesh Gokhale, director, IBM, who is also an AICTE coordinator, and V Munniyappa, former cabinet minister and chairman of Sri Venkateshwara Education Society.
 
 The teams will be judged on the basis of the prototype they come up with for the solutions they work on. At SVCE, the five winners will be announced by a panel of judges constituted by industry personnel, and the prizes are sponsored by BEL, Bengaluru.
 
 
