NAGPUR: In a first, the Bramhapuri and Central Chanda divisions in Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR) landscape are in process of seeking globally acclaimed Conservation Assured Tiger Standards (CATS) certification.

 After fulfilling all formalities, both Bramhapuri and Central Chanda will be the only tiger-bearing divisions outside protected areas (PAs) in the state to get CATS certification.
 
 “Till now, Chitwan in Nepal and   near   National Park in   are the only two areas in the world which have received CATS certification,” says GP Garad, chief conservator of forests (CCF) & field director of TATR, who is also holding additional charge of  .
 
 CATS is a new conservation tool endorsed by Global Tiger Forum (GTF) to set minimum standards for effective management of target species for conservation of species outside protected areas (PAs).
 
 A CATS’ sensitization workshop is being held in Chandrapur on Tuesday. It will be attended by additional secretary general of GTF SP Yadav, CATS manager Khalid Pasha, and senior forest officials from Chandrapur, Yadav on February 14, had made a presentation at two-day field directors meet in Delhi on CATS global overview and action taken so far.
 
 Talking to TOI, Yadav said unlike Management effective evaluation (MEE) of tiger reserves, CATS sets minimum standards for effective management of target species and to encourage assessment of these standards in relevant conservation in PAs as well as non-PAs.
 
 Yadav added the first species-specific CA standards are for tiger. At present, few protected areas are truly effective refuges for tigers and this has contributed to a catastrophic decline in their numbers over the last decade, despite major investments in their conservation.
 
 Yadav says as per 2014 estimation, India has 2,226 tigers. CATS aims to be a key element in realizing the ambitious goal of doubling the global tiger population by 2022, a commitment made by all 13 tiger range countries (TRCs).
 
 Garad said Bramhapuri has 30 plus tigers while Central Chanda has over 12 tigers. These areas being part of the corridor and significant for long-term survival of wildcats, CATS will play a vital role as these areas will invite global attention and funds.
 
 “We are going to make a presentation before the CATS experts on how we are managing the area, man-animal conflict and other issues. A proposal to seek CATS certification was moved through chief wildlife warden,” said Bramhapuri deputy conservator Ashish Thakre. Developed by WWF and partners, the GTF has endorsed CATS and has requested member countries to establish national review committees for purpose of initiating CATS. While Nepal is the first TRC to implement the process — Bhutan, Bangladesh, Thailand, Indonesia, Malaysia and India are following it.
 
