VISAKHAPATNAM: After losing senior cadres in the Ramaguda encounter in October 2016, the   have handed over the charge of the east division to   alias Asanna. 

 Asanna, the nephew of former Andhra Odisha Border Special Zonal Committee (AOBSZC) member Gopanna, led the action team that attacked chief minister   at Alipiri ( ) 14 years ago. He is known to be a mastermind of deadly surprise attacks. 
 
 Former east division secretary Chalapati alias Kailasam has been shifted to Srikakulam-Koraput division committee as secretary. 
 
 Chamala Krishtayya alias Daya, who was the secretary of Srikakulam-Koraput division committee, was killed in the Ramaguda encounter near Bejjangi in Malakangiri district of Odisha on October 24, 2016 when 31 Maoists and their symphatisers were shot dead by the police. 
 
 In 2003, Asanna led an action team of Maoists that targeted chief minister Chandrababu Naidu at Alipiri. Naidu was severely injured in the claymore mines attack. The same Asanna was a member of the action team that killed former home minister Madhava Reddy while he was returning from Bhuvangiri in 2000. 
 
 Sources said the CPI Maoists central committee brought Asanna from Dandakaranya recently. According to them, top leaders of the AOBSZC met at the cut-off areas a couple of weeks earlier and chalked out plans to strengthen the east and Koraput divisions. AOBSZC new secretary Gajarla Ravi alias Uday chaired the meeting along with central committee leaders, the sources said. 
 
 In the meeting, it was decided that the public should be mobilised against the proposal of setting up two police outposts in Vizag Agency. Rural cops have already started Rallagedda and Rudakota outposts last year. Cops are now focusing on setting up outposts at places like Killamkota area between G Madugula and Pedabayalu, which is a stronghold of Maoists. 
 
 It was also decided that Chhattisgarh cadres from Sukma or Dantewada districts would be brought it to fill the gaps in the squads in AOB. The meeting also allegedly proposed to deploy action teams to eliminate specific targets in both Andhra and Odisha, the sources said. 
 
 Asanna was a member of the action team that killed former home minister Madhava Reddy while he was returning from Bhuvangiri in 2000.
 
