GANDHINAGAR: The state government on Tuesday announced a grant of Rs 600 crore to the newly created corporation for the development of castes which do not have the benefit of reservations. This is in line with the state government's continuing efforts to mollify and win over the Patidar community ahead of the   assembly elections.
The state government claimed that the fund will benefit 58 castes, including Brahmins, Patidars and Vaniks. The Gujarat government also announced the formation of a commission headed by retired Gujarat high court judge Justice K A Punj, and former district judge Mahendra Shah to inquire into allegations of police atrocities during 2015 Patidar agitation for OBC quota.
 
 “The commission will give its report in six months,“ MoS (home) Pradipsinh   said. “A total of 439 cases were lodged during the Patidar agitation. Of these, 109 have already been withdrawn. The government has started the process of withdrawing all remaining cases for which it has the authority to withdraw.“ Briefing journalists, MoS (home) Pradipsinh Jadeja said the government had allocated Rs 100 crore share capital and Rs 500 crore loan to the corporation.
 
 Seven non-government directors will be appointed, including the corporation's chairperson and vice-chairperson. “Besides 58 castes which will benefit directly, farmers, artisans and labour will also gain from schemes for house, electricity, business, water and education,“ the minister said.
 
 “The corporation will give classes that currently do not have reservations, employment-oriented training. The state government will help these youth in getting bank loans,“ Jadeja said. The state government has also decided to appoint a permanent commission for the welfare of classes that do not have the benefit of reservations.
 
 This will be separate from the commission formed to probe allegations of atrocities on Patidars during the 2015 quota stir.
 
 “The welfare commission will act as an advisory body which will guide the government on welfare schemes,“ Jadeja said.
 
