Chandigarh: The schools believe the Chandigarh Commission for the Protection of Child Rights (CCPCR) went “overboard” on Wednesday in asking them to give their   drivers recreational facilities and breath-analyzer tests. They are thankful that it is “just an advisory”, following which is up to them.

 “We can either teach or do this (look after transport). Or we stop providing the transport and let the parents make own arrangements. The authorities concerned aren’t thinking practically. The commission should stop finding work for itself and let the STA (State Transport Authority) and traffic police handle transport. I think it is going overboard now,” Independent Schools Association president HS Mamik, who is also director of Vivek High Schools, said.
 
 “How are the schools going to provide items 1 to 7, including an entertainment centre? Where is the space for all this? Who is going to do the breathalyzer at 5.30 in the morning for drivers filing in from different places? Who’s going to pay for all this? The parents will scream at additional fee,” Saupin’s Schools’director-principal and ISA vice-president ABS Sidhu said.
 
 He claims that the commission is unaware of the ground realities. “For instance, take the seat belts they have asked the schools to ensure.The STA rules require children 12 or older to get a full seat, and for the kids below this age, three of them share two seats. While seat belts require independent seats for each passenger. The commission should do some ground work and tell us how it should be done. They say the advisory is for the schools with own fleets. That may be only 5% schools, as the rest have contractors,” Sidhu said.
 
 Commission chairperson Harjinder Kaur clarified that the advisory is for all schools. The confusion occurred because the advisory read that it was for schools “having their transport”. Schools said the responsibility be passed on to the contractor, and let the school managements be only facilitators.
 
 “The points covered in the advisory are well intended and will help check irresponsible behavior of the transport staff. The prime responsibility should be of the contractor to provide the services for which he gets remuneration. The STA, police and schools must keep a close eye on him but following all these points is not possible for the schools. The law should make it mandatory for the contractor to provide the facilities. The management will be a facilitator,” AKSIPS Schools director Jasdeep Kalra said.
 
 “Punish the driver who breaks the law. Will you punish the transport secretary if a Chandigarh bus driver violates any road rule? Shouldn't the law be the same for everyone?” Kalra said. On Wednesday, the child rights commission had asked the education department to forward the advisory to all schools, government or private. It suggested random breath alcohol analyzer and eye tests, besides incentive schemes for the drivers, conductors, and attendants. Schools were asked to engage the transport staff creatively in their free time and give them a resting space with toilet, drinking water, and indoor games.
 
 BOX
 
 The schools’ plea
 
 Last week, the schools wrote to the child rights commission, asking to be spared the blame for every accident or traffic rule violation. The commission is yet to reply. Independent Schools Association president H S Mamik submitted a representation to the commission, demanding a copy of the charter that empowers commission to inspect buses, claiming that the high court order had empowered it for one time only. He asked why schools should be held responsible for the buses owned by contractors and the individual, occasional behaviour of drivers and the crew
 
 
