MOHALI: A woman allegedly shot dead her 39-year-old husband with her licenced 9mm pistol at their house in Phase 3B1 on Saturday night, bundled his body in a suitcase and was going to dispose it of on Sunday morning when she fled, only to later surrender herself before the police in the night.

 The body of property dealer  , the only son of human rights activist   of Phase VI, was found in the suitcase in the boot of his BMW car outside his rented accommodation. His wife   is the niece of former   from Sardulgarh Ajit Inder Singh Mofer, who was defeated in the Vidhan Sabha elections. He lost to SAD candidate during the recently-concluded assembly elections in Punjab.
 
 DSL Alam Vijay said, “Sirat has admitted to killing her husband, but she was helped by someone else.” 
 
 Police sources said Sirat along with another woman struggled to keep the bag in the boot of the car as 6 foot 3 inches tall Ekam weighed over 100 kg. The two stopped an auto-rickshaw driver for help. He kept the suitcase inside but got suspicious after blood started oozing out. He drove away and called the police from near the gurdwara of Phase 3B1. Realizing the police would be arriving anytime, Sirat fled.
 
 The police have also booked Sirat’s mother Jaswinder Kaur and brother   under sections 34, 201, and 302 of the IPC.
 
 Ekam had earlier worked with Punjab agro-tech and Markfed as well.
 
 Family members said Ekam had come to meet his father around 9pm on Sunday and was tense. “As he was under some pressure, his father asked him to have dinner. When Jaspal went to receive a phone call, Ekam left,” they added. He reached his house on the first floor around 9.45pm. Till midnight, both husband and wife waited for their two children, 11-year-old son Gurnawaz and five-year-old daughter Humaira, to go to sleep. The two then started arguing. Around 12,30 am Gurnawaz heard a loud noise from one of the rooms. A little while later, an unidentified person approached the kids and asked them to sleep while shutting the door of their room.
 
 Sirat allegedly fired from a point blank range at Ekam, with the bullet coming out from the left temple, police said.
 
 Sirat pulled out a suitcase around 3.5 feet in length and breadth and packed the body inside it. She along with two others also cleaned the bloodstains from the house, police said. They had decided to dispose of the body in the morning but the call of the alarmed auto driver spoilt their plans.
 
 A police party, including DSP Alam Vijay Singh and SHO Baljinder Singh, reached the spot with a forensic team. The police recovered the   weapon which was lying in a cupboard and two magazines.
 
