CHENNAI:  , with the country's highest installed   capacity, may soon be closer to making the most of its renewable energy potential.   officials on Friday told this correspondent that they received 22 bids for 300MW of solar power projects that private players plan to set up between 2017 and 2018. 

 The tenders, which the discom reissued on poor response and demonetiation-related problems, follows several promoters insisting on giving a part of the land price in cash.
 
 Tangedco will open the bids on February 18 to affix prices.
 
 "The Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory Commission ( ) permitted Tangedco to set up solar projects of a maximum capacity of 500MW this year," a senior Tangedco official said. "We received bids for a total of 300MW this far."
 
 Tangedco last November received 20 bids for only 116MW of solar power; with the latest tenders, the discom has accounted for a total of 416MW out of its mandated 500MW.
 
 Each bidder will have the choice of plant capacity. "The conditions include that potential players have land at their disposal and submit documentation to this effect before signing the MoU with Tangedco," the official said.
 
 Though the TNERC fixed 5.10/unit as its tariff for solar power, after it opened bids last November, it lowered the tariff to 4.50/unit. "We expect the new tariff to be lower than that of last year or around 4.30/unit," the official said. But some hitches persist nonetheless. Most of solar power companies in Tamil Nadu have been - or are in the process of being - set up in  , Ramanathapuram and contiguous nearby. 
 
 Then there are individual problems that the firms face. "We could not cough up several lakhs of rupees as old denominations became invalid on November 8," a solar power company chief said. "We had a tie-up with a land owner in Tirunelveli for a site of several acres. But he asked for more than 60% of the cost in cash and only the rest in cheque or bank transfers."
 
 Solar power companies from various other states are also ready to bid, provided they receive land in the state.
 
 "So far the total solar power capacity in Tamil Nadu is around 1600MW which is the maximum capacity in any other state so far," the official said. "We also have the world big solar power plant in   district [promoted by the [Adani's].
 
 
