CHENNAI: "Hey shuga, haw ya doin'?" says  , putting on a southern  . There is a brief pause before she switches to the peculiar New York drawl. The storyteller from the US is narrating a conversation between two women in one of her stories. Her ability to switch between lingos, moods and characters is what makes her storytelling sessions engaging. 

 "When we hear a story, we see it in our mind. We go on a trip and experience it happening," Regina says. The power of a story to transport a listener to another world is what inspired her to leave her acting career - which spanned from Broadway to regional theatres - and become a storyteller 30 years ago.
 
 "Sometimes we don't even need a language to enjoy a good story. I loved the storytelling sessions in Tamil and cracked up every time the audience burst into laughter," Regina says, on the recent Chennai Storytelling Festival in which she participated.
 
 In more than 25 years, Regina has told stories to diverse audiences in myriad places - from youngsters amid a rose bush in a park to inmates of a prison to children on the lawns of the White House. "That is the beauty of storytelling; it is flexible in terms of time, space and audience. You could just walk into a park and say, 'Hello, I am narrating a story, are you game?' and you will have your audience."
 
 Regina tells traditional stories, folk tales or what she calls "grandmother tales" as well as her own personal and fictional stories. "I told stories from the Mayan culture and those about the Murut tribes of Borneo in the festival. The stories I tell mostly depend on the audience and the place," she says.
 
 Many stories are centred on different cultures, popular folklore and famous incidents. One of them is the 9/11 terror attack on the World Trade Centre - an incident Regina saw from a distance. But her stories are not horrific. 
 
 Asked if she had to customise her stories for the Indian audience, Regina shakes her head. "I tell a lot of traditional stories and I believe all these stories are universal in nature."
 
 Though she has told stories to a wide range of audiences, Regina says the thread that joins them all is the desire to listen to a good story and to be inspired by it. "A story takes us out of us. That is how powerful it is. A story makes us realise that heartless giants exist but also that they can be defeated. A story is therapeutic," she adds. 
 
 - 
 
 
