NEW DELHI:   on Sunday presented its roadmap to make Delhi the “cleanest and most beautiful”   in the world. Delhi Pradesh Congress Committee chief Ajay Maken, in presence of former Union environment minister Jairam Ramesh, launched a blueprint for municipal solid waste management as the party stepped up campaigning for the upcoming elections.

 Maken said if voted to office, Congress would start a project to segregate waste at source, wherein each household would get colour-coded   for keeping dry and wet waste separate. “Sanitation is a major issue and it’s unfortunate that the ruling party has failed to streamline the system. Workers have gone on strike five times in the last two years as their salaries haven’t been paid on time.” 
 
 The blueprint was prepared in consultation with senior party leaders with expertise in the field, Maken said. The party’s first blueprint, launched on March 6, had talked about making the three corporations self-reliant. 
 
 As elections draw near, all parties have sought to make the condition of safai karamcharis the focal point of their campaign. Maken promised to regularise contractual employees. “Safai karamcharis play an important role in keeping the city   and it’s the duty of municipal bodies to ensure that they get their pay on time,” he said.
 
 Maken slammed CM Kejriwal for his promise to waive property tax for residential houses. He said, “AAP’s symbol is jhaadu, but they have done nothing to keep the city clean. Ahead of polls, all they are doing is making false promises, for which they are best known.”
 
 The Congress leader said his party didn’t want to provide services for free as it was not a “realistic” thing to do. “Instead, we want to provide real-time solutions,” said Maken.
 
 Ramesh, on his part, claimed that the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan was an extension of Nirmal Bharat Abhiyan initiated by Congress. “I am glad that the current government is working towards cleanliness, but work has to be done on ground. The three corporations in Delhi first need to become self-reliant; only then will it be possible to initiate projects and Congress has the solution.”
 
 Congress has also promised to “reclaim” existing four landfill sites and install waste-to-energy and composting plants on zonal levels. “About 9,000 metric tonne of garbage is generated across Delhi per day and 40% of total waste generated gets dumped at landfill sites untreated,” said Maken.
 
 The third and “final blueprint” will be launched on March 29 by senior Congress functionaries Shashi Tharoor and Salman Khurshid “for better primary education and health”.
 
 
