NOIDA:   of   Dream Valley project have written to the Prime Minister’s Office seeking the impounding of the passport of Amrapali MD Anil Sharma.

 The buyers fear that Sharma may try to leave the country as the project is far from complete. Amrapali is one of top debtors owing money to Noida and   authorities. Most of its projects are yet to be completed.
 
 In a letter of appeal to Prime Minister Narendra Modi submitted on February 22, Dream Valley buyers have requested that measures be taken to safeguard the interests of buyers who have invested in Amrapali.
 
 “While most builders are cash-strapped and now have no way to complete them, many may want to settle abroad to escape debts. We are scared and have thus put an alert that the builders should not be allowed to travel outside India,” a Dream Valley buyer said.
 
 “Amrapali buyers are in dire straits. They have no idea what is waiting for them and if at all they will ever get their houses,” Indrish Gupta, co-founder, Noida Extension Flat Owners Welfare Association (Nefowa), said.
 
 Meanwhile, the Noida homebuyers’ association on Thursday demanded explanation from the Greater Noida Authority on lack of action on their part on investigating and keeping a check on defaulting builders. In a letter seeking answers from the  , Nefowa referred to therecent arrest of Earth Infrastructure owner   by the Delhi Police in response to complaints by the Economic Offences Wing. Goel was arrested on February 20 based on complaints by homebuyers. 
 
 Abhishek Kumar, Nefowa president, said, “ Our fear is that most builders who have not been adhering to the norms have not been checked by the Noida Authority. We have in a letter asked GNIDA to respond to five questions regarding defaulting builders: Why does the Noida Authority not respond to buyers’ complaints about the perpetual construction halt? Why is the repayment process made easy for builders, why are the defaulting builders names seen vanishing from the authority website? Why is the Authority silent on the fraudulent activities of the builders?”
 
 
