PATNA: Shamshul Huda, a Nepalese citizen and the ISI mastermind of   near Kanpur in UP late last year, was arrested in Nepal on Sunday. Sources said   returned to Nepal after India used its diplomatic channel in Dubai to ensure his return.
 
  According to Nepal Police’s Inspector  , Huda, who had also planned a bomb blast on the railway track near Ghorasahan in East Champaran district of Bihar on October 1, has told interrogators he got orders from two people in Pakistan to cause heavy casualties by triggering blasts in remote areas of India.
  
  Around 150 people died in the Kanpur train accident. The cooker bomb planted on the railway track near Ghorasahan had failed to explode.   (18) and Arun Ram (27) of Adapur in East Champaran were assigned the task of Ghorasahan blast. As they failed to trigger the blast, they were called to Bara in Nepal and killed by Huda’s men Brijkishore Giri, Mujahir Ansari, Ashish Singh Kurmi alias Sujeet and two others.
  
  Giri, Ansari and Sujeet were arrested in Nepal. Their interrogation revealed ISI hand in the recent train accidents in India. On their statement, Umashankar Patel, Motilal Paswan and Mukesh Yadav were arrested in Motihari. They confessed to their involvement in the Kanpur train accidents and in the abortive bid at Ghorasahan. Patel, Paswan and Yadav are currently under the custody of National Investigation Agency (NIA).
  
  Talking to TOI over phone, Bara police inspector Kushwaha claimed Huda was arrested from a hotel in Kathmandu on February 5. However, sources said he was arrested from the Kathmandu airport and was grilled by intelligence agencies, including the NIA of India, before his arrest was made public on Tuesday. “One of the Pakistani handlers of Huda had also met him in Dubai. Huda’s further interrogation would reveal his links with more people in India and Nepal and their activities. Huda had visited India through Nepal border several times,” Kushwaha said.
  
  Huda’s passport confirms he has visited Pakistan and Malaysia. However, Nepal police did not divulge details.
  
  Huda was brought to Bara Monday night where he, along with Giri, Ansari and Sujeet and two others are named in an FIR lodged in connection with the murder of Deepak and Arun.
