JAIPUR: There seems to be no end to   smuggling for slaughter from Rajasthan. 

 On Saturday, 13 camels which were being smuggled were rescued from Barmer.
 
 The Rajasthan Camel (Prohibition of Slaughter and Regulation of Temporary Migration or Export) Act, 2015, came into effect in 2016. The Act that was supposed to provide the animal the same protection as the cow with seven years in jail for slaughtering a camel, and three years for smuggling it across state borders, has been absolutely ineffectual, with hundreds of camels being smuggled every month for slaughtering. 
 
 Less than a month back, 66 camels ‘smuggled’ from Rajasthan were rescued at Chanchal in north Malda of West Bengal that are yet to be returned to the desert state. Recently, 13 live camels and over 50 slaughtered ones were recovered from a truck (HR-74-3607) which was illegally carrying them. A Bolero HR-52B-7588 was escorting the vehicle going to Dasna slaughter house in Uttar Pradesh, UP. A fortnight ago, 60 camels were rescued from Jaipur rural. 
 
 According to volunteers of Yogi Ashwini’s  , who work towards safeguarding wildlife and look after injured animals, “These camels were purchased by UP traders and loaded from mela ground at   in Phalodi. More than 50 camels in the two trucks were found slaughtered, lying in a pool of blood. Our team informed the police station. Finally, the truck was caught in Dasna slaughter house.”
 
 According to the Dhyan foundation, “Cattle fairs in Rajasthan have increased besides those in the Pushkar, Jodhpur and Bikaner belt. And it all begins at these fairs. At one end, the Rajasthan government has made the Act, gives subsidy to farmers for increasing camel breeding, made the National Research Centre on Camel in Bikaner to check their dwindling population but on the flip side they don’t stop camel smuggling that is happening openly. There is no enforcement of the Act and police have no clue how to go about it. The first FIR under the Act has been filed,” said   from Dhyan Foundation.
 
 The 66 camels rescued from Chanchal in north Malda were smuggled from Pushkar on November 18, 2016. Animal activists found out the whereabouts of the people involved and lodged an FIR in the police station at Pushkar. But so far, there has been no action on FIR no. 16/2017 filed by Yatinder Shastri, an animal activist from Pushkar. 
 
 “Camel smuggling is a routine affair and has been happening for a long time. We have registered several complaints at various towns including Pushkar, Bharatpur, Dholpur Alwar and Churu from where camels were smuggled outside the state for slaughter,” said Babu Lal Jaju, state chief, People for Animals.
 
 
