GURUGRAM: The Sohna sub-division of   recently issued cumulative power   after a gap of seven months, giving consumers merely 10 days’ time to clear their  . Further, many consumers alleged that they had received inflated bills, some worth   of rupees, accusing the   of gross negligence and malpractice.

 Sources said hundreds of consumers living in South City 2, Fazilpur, Tirki village and nearby areas on Sohna road got cumulative power bills for the seven months — from October (2016) to June (2017) — on June 27 with the last day for payment being July 7.
 
 Vivek Bharti, a resident of Vipul World enclave on Sohna road, claimed that he received a hugely inflated bill. “I checked my bill online and it shows that the due amount is Rs 4.5 lakh. This is absurd as my average monthly bill has been around Rs 6,000 Rs 7,000. Moreover, the bills include consumptions in winter months (November to February), which are supposed to be lower than the summer,” Bharti, who works with a telecom company, said. 
 
 Deepak Singla, also a resident of Vipul World, claimed that at least 10 consumers in his area had received bills worth more than Rs 1 lakh. And they would have to clear the dues by July 7.
 
 “We had approached discom officials multiple times over the last seven months for the bills. They had told us that there was a technical default, which was delaying the bills. And, they had promised to give consumers an option to pay the bills in installments. Besides, we were told that we would have sufficient time to pay the bills. But, finally, when the bills are issued, the consumers get a window of only 10 days between the bill date and the payment date,” Singla rued.
 
 To make things worse, bill correction has become a headache for the residents, who are running from pillar to post to get their bills corrected in order to be able to make the payment before the last date and avoid penalty.
 
 “The discom’s sub-division office is always crowded and officials have a laidback attitude. I visited the office four times last week to get my bill corrected, but in vain. Every time we call them, they ask you to visit the office, and when we do, they sit on the application for hours,” alleged Arun Dagar, RWA president, Vipul World.
 
