COIMBATORE: A firm that courted controversy for paying corporation   their salaries for November and December in demonetised Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 notes said on Tuesday that it was forced to do so after the civic body failed to settle arrears for three months. 

 “We had no other choice, but to pay in old notes, that too after taking loans," owners of  , who were awarded the contract to supply 2,035 sanitary workers, said in their reply.
 
 The firm on October 29 had credited Rs 3,000 in the bank accounts of each of the 2,030 workers as Diwali bonus.
 
 But it paid the salary in old notes after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the demonetisation drive on November 8.
 
 The civic body , which has not so far initiated any action against the firm, passed the buck to Income Tax department (I-T), saying it was their duty to take steps in this case.“We can only warn or penalise the contractor," said a senior corporation officer.
 
 Activists, meanwhile, petitioned senior officials and sought action against the company . Corporation commissioner K Vijaya Karthikeyan subsequently ordered officials to issue a showcause notice, asking the contractor to reply within 15 days.
 
 In its reply, Vardhan Infrastructure Private Limited blamed the civic body for not clearing its payments for three months and requested it to clear the same soon.
 
 Activist Velmurugan said there was a huge scam.“The company credited the bonus in their accounts and paid the salary in cash that too after demonetisation was announced. The I-T department should take note of this and take stringent action, he said.
 
 “Where is the revenue the civic body earned? Why is it always short of cash?" asked another activist, R Damodaran, district president of All India Central Council of Trade Unions. TOI tried to reach the owner of Vardhaan Enterprises for his comment, but in vain. One of its employees, Manikandan, however, confirmed that the firm had replied to the civic body's show cause notice. But, he refused to comment on it.
 
