BHUBANESWAR: The   (BMC) has decided to introduce a   (UPTIN) as part of its digitisation process of holding   and collection. 

 Each holding (commercial and residential houses) will bear a seven digit unique number like PAN so that it remains permanently under the tax net. 
 
 The BMC in the previous financial year collected over Rs 35 crore holding tax and it hopes to generate around Rs 70 crore in the current fiscal.
 
 The project will be jointly implemented by BMC, Bhubaneswar Development Authority and Bhubaneswar Smart City Limited. The unique number for each holding will be reflected in the tax map, the preparation of which is underway by the Odisha Space Application Centre ( ). 
 
 A private firm, which has experience in tax assessment and collection, will be roped for the purpose. 
 
 All the holdings will be geo-tagged based on geographical information obtained from satellite imagery. Then the UPTIN number will be allocated to the holdings so that they come under tax net permanently. 
 
 "Initially, the UPTIN allocation will be done for the holdings of two wards. After successful implementation, holdings of remaining 65 wards will be tagged with the unique number," said a spokesperson of BMC. The city has nearly one lakh holdings but around 70,000 are now coming under tax net. "If UPTIN is introduced there will be transparency and we will get quick information about a holding, its size and location by putting the unique number in the web portal," said BMC additional commissioner Alok Kar. 
 
 This will also help holding tax assessment hassle-free as there is least chance of holding size being manipulated. 
 
 The unique number can also help people pay their tax without giving address proof and other details, official sources said.
 
  "We have invited a request for proposal from private parties working on tax assessment and collection. Later a tender will be floated to start the work of generating the unique number," said a senior BMC officer. 
 
 Official sources said the ORSAC has already prepared satellite maps of holdings in ward 55.
 
 
