Bhagat Singh is his hero. He believes in freedom. Absolute freedom. ‘No, it is a lie that I am against  , SC or OBCs. I’m all for reservations. I believe reservations are a must for the development of India.’   is only 23 but when he speaks, you cannot but listen to him. Extremely articulate, the   seems to know the public pulse. Hardik Patel is all set to change   in Gujarat by 2017.

 “Narendra Modi and his government are scared of me. But unlike Modiji or Amit Shah, I have nothing to fear or hide. The worst case you can slap on anyone is sedition. They have already accused me of rajdroh (sedition) and kept me in jail for nine months. This has made me stronger and more resolute in my determination. I have the public, the youth and my age on my side. What more can they do?” he asks. 
 
 Hardik who spent nearly four hours at the Ahmedabad Mirror office is clear about his goal. 
 
 
 
 
 Patidars ironically are the most influential community in Gujarat. When questioned why an influential community like Patels should get the benefit of reservations, without taking names, he says, “This is the misconception you have. Go to Gariyadhar or Amreli. Just because five Patels are rich, you cannot discount the condition of all Patels in the State. “If a country like America also believes in affirmative action, why not India? I am not begging for any favours.
 
 All I am asking is equal opportunities in government jobs, admissions for my community.” The BJP was supposed to represent the masses, he says. “Even my entire family toiled hard to ensure that BJP wins. But look at them. They have forgotten the people who worked for their victory. They do not represent us anymore.” Looking at Finance Minister Arun Jaitley delivering the budget speech, Hardik asks the Mirror panel comprising IIM students, chartered accountants, academicians, NGOs , home-makers, students and representatives from BJP, Congress and AAP, who the budget is meant for? The panel is flabbergasted.
 
 They thought they were going to discuss the budget, not answer Hardik Patel. The younger leader had reached the venue before the others, and is comfortable connecting to all those present. He repeats his question, this time, slightly louder. Whom is the budget for? The unanimous answer is, ‘For the public, Janata’. “Respected elders, if the Budget is meant for yeh desh ki janta, why is Jaitleyji going on speaking in a language that more than 97% population in the country does not understand? Desh ki janta ke liye budget hai, toh desh ki bhasha mein boliye,” he says.
 
 “No, I don’t understand English and I don’t speak English,” he makes it clear. His confidence is striking. Just like his views. “India is fed up of netas who just deliver muscular rhetoric but do not follow it up with action. “The BJP benefited because of the Congress which failed to fulfil young India’s aspirations. But look at BJP’s performance. In the name of giving the right to education, all the BJP has done is encourage profit-making in this field. What has the BJP done for the kissan, for the jawan? “My brothers fighting at the border are complaining about the quality of food.
 
 Youngsters are complaining about the quality of education, the lack of jobs. What is the BJP government doing? The BJP is anti-woman. They created so much noise when Nirbhaya case happened in Delhi when UPA was in power, now there are Nirbhaya type of cases happening all over Gujarat too. Look at what happened recently in Saurashtra. Why is BJP not raising its voice?” Hardik is a force to be watched out in Gujarat.
 
 He does not spell out whether he will join hands with the AAP or the Congress, or if he will wage an independent fight or take support from Nitish Kumar or Akhilesh Yadav. “Wait and watch,” he says, but adds, “One thing I am clear of is that I want to finish the BJP in Gujarat. We, Patels, brought the BJP to power in Gujarat, now we will make them bite the dust. As a son of the soil, this is what I promise Gujarat.”
 
