BENGALURU: In a small bylane in a prominent locality in east Bengaluru, a ‘playhome’ operates out of a three-bedroom house. Its bright banner and colourful walls do not take away from the fact that two toddlers play unsupervised in a mud pit, just beyond the institution’s unmanned front gate. Upstairs, toddlers played on a mat on the floor of an upper   in session.

 Over the past few years, institutions such as these, offering a variety of services to desperate parents, have mushroomed across the city without registration or regulation.
 
 But, following a government decision on February 27, these   have been brought under the purview of the   and will have to register to operate.
 
 Officials in the education department said daycare   came under the control of the city corporation and local bodies. Pre-schools attached to existing schools will also have to register separately before the academic session begins.
 
 The Karnataka Educational Institutions Rules, 1995, sets out clear rules for the registration and operation of pre-schools but the government diluted its powers with a circular in 2006. The circular said it was no longer mandatory for standalone preschools to register with the department. This led to a mushrooming of creches and pre-schools.
 
 Regulation of preschools catering to children aged between three and five years, was specified in the rules but was not being implemented, said Sowjanya, commissioner for public instruction.
 
 “Due to that government circular, we have not been able to zero in on the number of preschools in the city as it is not mandatory for them to register. We don’t know why it was issued. The same act provides for strict penalization of violators, up to life. As of February 27, we have withdrawn the 2006 circular, bringing these pre-primary educational institutions under the education department,” she said.
 
 These establishments claim to do everything from feed children to help them with homework, but often compromise on safety. Many also lack the basic infrastructure to keep so many kids in a confined space.
 
 Sowjanya said that under the Karnataka Education Act, 1983, pre-primary informal education catering to children aged three to five years of age came under the jurisdiction of the department while the ministry of women and child development (WCD) had was responsible for the registration of institutions taking in children from four months old to four years.
 
 “There is an overlap of one year in the rules and institutions admitting children aged 4 have to register themselves with both WCD ministry and the education department,” she said.
 
