SURAT:  , who was   by   (DCB) of city police on Thursday for his alleged role in the recent hooch tragedy, had assumed a fake identity to sell homeopathy medicines because he was aware about the harmful contents in them, police said.

 Deb, a medical representative of homeopathy medicines, was nabbed from Panchshila, 24 Parganas district in West Bengal after a detailed electronic and human intelligence-based investigation by the city police. Deb is being brought to Surat on a transfer warrant by the city police which took help of West Bengal police to trace Deb’s location. 
 
 “Deb made calls from a mobile phone that had a sim card secured on fake name and address. He used to give fake name to his clients whom he contacted using the mobile phone having sim card secured on fake identity documents. This was why police failed to get any specific lead in the investigation for a long period,” said an officer, who is a part of the investigation team.
 
 Deb made only business calls from this phone having sim card secured on fake identity documents and never contacted friends or relatives from this number. Police suspect he was aware about the consequences of his illegal enterprise and thus had created a fake identity to escape the law. The address details printed on the homeopathy medicines were incorrect. 
 
 Police in their investigation found that bootlegger  , 54, and her married daughter Nimisha alias Karishma Paresh Rana, 30, had mixed a homeopathic medicine with Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) and sold it to their customers on January 14. Six people died within a week’s time in the city on consuming this concoction. Police discovered that the homeopathy medicine added to the liquor was Thuja and that it had around 91 per cent of methyl alcohol concentration. 
 
 The medicine had been sold to the bootlegger duo by a medicine seller Bharat Shah. He had been selling another homeopathic medicine to the accused so far and had given Thuja only as a replacement. Police had seized around 1,000 bottles of the medicines from the medicine seller.
 
