MUMBAI: The   (ED) is probing if jailed NCP leader   laundered   scam money to buy a sea-facing building in   from a Kuwaiti royal family member in the name of his political associate and businessman  . The ED has recorded Siddique’s statement. After examining the details, they have decided to call him again for questioning.

 The ED has found evidence that show Siddique along with Bhujbal’s nephew Sameer travelled to Kuwait in December 2013, met the royal family and discussed the deal. The royal family occupied only the top floor of   while other flats were rented out. The family reportedly sold their entire rights in the building allegedly to Bhujbals. Chhagan Bhujbal was a minister in the previous government in the state then.
 
 Sources said that after the Kuwait visit, Siddique paid around Rs 22 crore to the royal family through a company associated with him. Officials are probing if the royal family had received payment through any other mode. Officials believe that the rights of the building was more than Rs 100 crore and are probing if Siddique made the payment on behalf of the Bhujbals. 
 
 Siddiqui has denied the allegation of being used by Bhujbal for money laundering. “The Bhujbals are like my family, but I never took any favour from them. I am into social work and they always supported me whether it’s helping earthquake victims or any other social cause. My political enemies trying to settle their personal score through such allegations," he said, adding that “Bhujbal was interested in purchasing a flat in the building but afterwards they dropped their plan. I have purchased the building and made the payment through my bank.”
 
 Siddique had run into a controversy in 2005 when Dawood Ibrahim’s gang member Jamiruddin Ansari alias Jumbo told police that he had approached Siddique to arrange his travel to the Gulf on the instance of Dawood’s brother Anees. Siddique had then denied any links with Dawood and Jumbo.
 
 The ED got a suspicion about the Al-Jabriya Court deal when investigators learnt that Chhagan and Sameer Bhujbal often visited the top floor of the building and planned to shift there, before they were arrested in March 2016.
 
 The deal was stuck in 2013, when the royal family was fighting a case against film producer Sanjay Punamiya, who has occupied a 7,000 sqft apartment in neighbouring building Al-Sabah Court. The royal family had brought the two buildings in 1950s.
 
