CHENNAI: Remaining in the shadow of   for 33 years,   wielded power, but emerging from there to lead the state, she will have to face challenges — within the party and from the public. Becoming the   general secretary — and now set to be the CM — has been a progression; now she enters the rough and tumble of public life.

 Days after Jayalalithaa’s demise, AIADMK members queued up at   to plead with her to take over party’s mantle. While she defused aprobable rebellion from Kongu community leaders by reaching out to M Thambidurai and K A Sengottaiyan, her imminent challenge will be getting cadre support and public acceptance. With at least half a dozen individuals harbouring aspirations within her own Mannaragudi clan, she may find the going tough.
 
 Torn posters and defaced banners of Sasikala are not encouraging indications. Conspiracy theories and petitions have questioned the secrecy over medical treatment to Jayalalithaa. The former CM’s niece, Deepa Jayakumar, and a few other relatives had complained that they were not allowed into the hospital.
 
 All legislators and members — including those critical of Sasikala — have rallied behind her in public but keeping this diverse flock united for long will be a tough job. Party veterans will not be amused if Mannargudi family members try to exert their influence, especially since Jayalalithaa had expelled 12 of them, including Sasikala’s husband.
 
 Sasikala’s concern will be the increasing footfalls at the T Nagar house of Deepa Jayakumar. Deepa is planning a tour to meet her supporters. “I am going to meet the true AIADMK cadres, followers of MGR and Amma, and get their views on what kind of political role they expect from me,” Deepa told TOIlast week.
 
 Sasikala’s backroom tactics may be known to AIADMK allies, but for the public at large, she remains a novice. Her political future also hinges on the impending verdict in the disproportionate assets case. Her first litmus test will be the upcoming local body elections in the state, if not her own election.
 
 
