PUNE: Officials on Saturday said that complaints about names missing in the polling booth-wise voters list can be addressed if the names were included in the summary revision of voters list, which was published on January 5.

 With just two days left for the election, voters have been urged to compare the voters list published in January with the uploaded booth-wise voters list to ensure their names were not dropped while the list was split. They can approach the respective returning officer to get it rectified.
 
 Collector   told TOI on Saturday that he and the commissioners of the Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal corporations would take up the complaints and compare the lists. Names that were dropped after bifurcation of the lists can be included ahead of the voting day on February 21 after following due procedures, Rao said.
 
 Though corporation officials have repeatedly been saying they made no changes to the voters lists and have only bifurcated the names as per polling booths, the volley of complaints has made them reconsider.
 
 The district collectorate officials said that they created the list for rural areas as well but there were no complaints from them.
 
  commissioner Kunal Kumar said there could be less possibility of names going missing from the original list but they would re-check with the main list to facilitate all voters to exercise their franchise. “We have introduced many sops to encourage voters to come to the booth. We have announced that the first ten voters -five male and five female -will get 1 litre of free petrol. Other sops include discounts for movie tickets as well as free desserts at all city hotels. We have also urged people to put up their selfies after voting. So, if there are any such issues (of missing names), we will address them,“ he said.
 
 Hadapsar resident  's name was pre sent in the voters list during the assembly and Lok Sabha elections. However, she was not able to find it in the boothwise list. “My family of four have names in different wards. The division of lists has not been done systematically,“ Ramkumar said.
 
 Another resident blamed the civic administration for changes in the last minute. “If they wanted to ensure good polling, they should have done all this ahead of the elections and not on the last two days,“ a resident from Mundhwa, who hasn't been able to find his name on the voter list, said.
 
