MUMBAI: An   or a syringe costs around Rs 2 to make, but an average Indian patient buys it at five times the sum. The single-digit ‘profit’ on an injection may seem trivial till one notes that three billion injections are sold across India annually, revealing that   as a   are overcharged by billions of   each year. 

 The import price of a popular hip implant is Rs 8,906, but by the time it’s marked on a patient’s bill, it costs Rs 1.29 lakh, a markup of 1,448%.
 
 These are two examples TOI found after talking to distributors of medical devices a day after the NPPA capped prices of cardiac stents at Rs 29,600 apiece. 
 
 NPPA fixed the prices following complaints that patients had to, in some cases, pay over 700 times the import price.
 
 The truth is that not only are these six lakh cardiac stents sold across India every year, but millions of syringes, cannulae or eye lenses, too, are sold at highly inflated prices. “Margins of 300%, 600% or more are common in orthopedic implants for the knees or hips,” said a distributor who didn’t want to be identified. One of India’s most commonly used knee implant costs Rs 46,000 to patients but is imported at Rs 9,264 only. There is more. A check on the online export data showed that Indian syringes are exported at Rs 2 per unit.
 
 Social health activist Dr Abhay Shukla calls these inflated prices as the daily Indian scam. Dr Shukla, national convenor of the Jan Swasthya Abhiyan, said, “Consumers dictate most markets, but this isn’t the case in healthcare where the doctor decides on behalf of a patient. The consumer or patient is safe if the doctor is ethical, but there is a high risk that the doctor may be more concerned about his financial health and take decisions on the basis of incentives from companies.” Calling for vigorous price control, he said that “there is a daily scam happening, but it doesn’t make an impact because it is scattered across the country.”
 
 Rajiv Nath, who owns the country’s biggest syringe manufacturing unit and is the coordinator of AIMED (Association of Indian Medical Devices Industry), said, “There have been many discussions on the inflated prices of ortho implants and syringes, but nothing has been done so far.” A 2015 NPPA notification said that apart from cardiac stents, prices of even ortho and ocular lenses would be regulated.
 
 Nath told TOI that he too had suffered due to the inflated pricing practice. “The average price for manufacturing syringes is between Rs 1.5 and Rs 2, but most products sell for more than double. In the last two-three years, my company was pushed out of the market due to a competitor that priced its product at Rs 10 and offered big cuts and incentives,” said Nath, whose product was priced at Rs 4.50. As he couldn’t overnight increase the price of his product, he merely set up another brand to match the competitor’s product.
 
 Mumbai-based laparascopic gynaceologist Dr Prashant Mangeshikar offers a different example. “Companies take undue advantage of the lack of regulation in India. One of the manufacturers of the harmonic scalpel offers its base unit for ‘free rental’ to hospitals across the world, but charges Rs 12 lakh annually to Indian hospitals,” he said. The company offered the replaceable parts in packs of 20 to Indian doctors, but has better deals at competitive price for foreign doctors, added Dr Mangeshikar.
 
 Is it easy to regulate the Indian medical devices space? Nath says it is possible, but AIMED is cut up with NPPA’s overnight ruling on cardiac stents. “The decision has disrupted medical practice. We want price regulation that is done systematically with the consumer affairs ministry looking into it,” he said.
 
 Dr Shukla of Jan Swasthya Abhiyan said, “The only solution would be to not only bring medical devices under price control but cap prices of essential procedures so that the consumer gets his right. The government should implement the Clinical Establishments Act that looks at these issues.”
 
 
