MUMBAI:   has entered   with a bang, investing Rs 1,000 crore in   and disbursing Rs 200 crore in   in three weeks.

 Announcing the launch of its home finance subsidiary on Wednesday, Piramal Enterprises chairman   said that the company would leverage its relationship with real estate developers to grow its home loan portfolio. “We have developed partnerships with over a 100 ‘A’ class developers with funding of over Rs 50,000 crore. This is a business we understand and our non-performing assets are only 0.2% of our assets,” said Piramal. He added that the company has set a target of Rs 15,000 crore by March 2020.
 
 Piramal said that his company would tie up with top notch builders. “We believe that only 15-20% of the developers will survive after   ( ). Before RERA, you could be a developer without putting any equity. There have been so many horror stories of houses being delayed for 10 years. With RERA, this will come to an end and only those who have the ability will survive,” he said.
 
 There are close to 80 registered housing finance companies in India but most of the business is concentrated among the top 10, which are the only companies with assets of over Rs 10,000 crore. According to Piramal, there will not be any conflict of interest between the new housing finance company and the  , which has a presence in home loans. Piramal, besides being chairman of Shriram Group, is also a strategic stakeholder in it.
 
 “Shriram in housing is very different from the kind of housing loans that we are talking about. They are in small towns with smaller amounts of money,” said Piramal. According to him, the company did consider an acquisition. However, it felt that to grow organically is a more value-creating proposition. “We are running independently because we feel that there is enough opportunity to grow this, both in Shriram and in Piramal,” he added.
 
 Talking about the stressed asset fund which Piramal Enterprises launched with   in August last year, Piramal said the fund is looking at buying assets from many sectors, such as steel, pharmaceuticals, auto ancillaries, cement and power. “We have said before that we will invest $75-100 million, and Bain Capital will invest an equal amount. We plan to raise funds from the investors and have a fund size of anywhere between $750 million and $1 billion,” he said.
 
 
