Even though an official Indian nomination hasn’t gotten close to an Oscars win in many years, there’s often the odd Indian story in the lineup of Oscar hopefuls. The movie getting Indian hopes up this time, a bit like ' ', is ' ', starring the same actor,  . Those hopes are even higher now that Dev's won the Best Supporting Actor award at the BAFTAs for this role. But 'Lion' is a real-life story, and the man whom Dev portrays, the Australian  , has been a global celebrity long before Hollywood happened to him. 

  His by-now-famous story is that in 1986, Saroo was Sheru Munshi Khan, a five-year-old from a poor family in Khandwa, Madhya Pradesh, out for the night at a nearby railway station with his older brother. Their father had left their mother and started a family with his second wife. Left alone, he boarded a train that took him to Kolkata. Scared, lost and illiterate, he couldn’t communicate enough to ask for help, and somehow survived the streets of that city for months, dodging dangers like abuse and drugs, fighting poverty and starvation. Eventually, he was taken in by an orphanage, and from there, he was adopted by Sue and John Brierley of Hobart,  . Saroo, which is how he mispronounced Sheru (hence the film’s name, Lion), stuck, and the boy grew up into a regular Aussie guy – except with very vivid and detailed memories of his childhood in India, including of the way his home and locality looked.
 
  It helped that his family, especially Sue, were extremely inclusive and open – they chose to adopt two Indian children despite having kids of her own – and when he was about 25, Saroo finally started looking for his Indian family using Google Earth. Five years of obsessively poring over much of the Indian landscape later, he finally chanced upon Burhanpur, the railway station from where he’d boarded the train.
 
  Using his vivid memories, he followed the digital trail to Ganesh Talai in Khandwa, to the very room they lived in. Almost a year later, he landed up at that tumbledown dwelling, and just as serendipitously as the rest of his life, found his birth mother living just a few metres away. He was reunited with his siblings too, except for his eldest brother, who’d passed away the night Saroo was lost. 
 
 
  
    and Dev Patel in 'Lion'
 
  It’s a staggering story and certainly movie material – it was little surprise that it was a media sensation from the day after he first met Fatima (earlier Kamla), his mother, in Khandwa. Innumerable TV appearances followed, one of which documented Sue’s emotional first meeting with Fatima in India. There were book and movie offers, which led to the book A Long Way Home, and now Lion, directed by debutante Australian director Garth Davis. It stars Dev and Nicole Kidman, and won two awards at the BAFTAs on Sunday. It also has half a dozen nominations at the Academy Awards. 
 
  That's certainly a conversation starter with Saroo, who was at the Australian high commission in Delhi recently. But the typical 'Tassie' also discusses how 'where you're from' is dividing people today, and what he hopes his story stands for, in a chat with DT.
 
  
 
 The media attention started from the day I met my (Indian) mother – just an hour later, and for the next four days. The local policeman told the media in my hometown and it went viral – there were people from Delhi coming down, from Mumbai, Khandwa, relatives… so many people flocking in to get a piece of this amazing, profound story. From there, it just went viral when I came to Australia, and before I knew it, there was a heap of media attention – TV, magazines, newspapers – and extreme interest globally.
 
 
  I don't think the fame affected (anything) in a detrimental way. For me, it’s like, I guess, an athlete that's been running every day to achieve, ultimately, the gold medal at the end. I don’t think it’s really affected us or has altered my mum or my dad in regards to becoming someone we’re not. I'm still so grounded and so regimented too, I’ve developed myself for such a long time – my characteristics and who I am – that if I try to change myself, my origins will pull me back.
 
 
  
  (BCCL)
 
  
 No, I was never aware of that (racism). Even though I heard it in the media, there are always two sides to a story. I never came across any such stuff. I don’t know whether I was living underneath a rock or something, but I was living in a multicultural atmosphere, a lot of international students. I never saw anything, so I can’t comment on it.
 
  
 Well, I can't comment on other countries and other people. But we always hope there are people more in touch in a humanitarian way, and who acknowledge that there are people less fortunate out there in the world. 
 
  I don’t get asked this much –'would you ever wanna see your father again?' And the answer there is that I would like to see him again. I’m just questioning and answering myself, but ‘aren’t you really angry at him because he left your mother and siblings to pretty much die and go through poverty and adversity. If he was there, the breadwinner of the family, everyone would still be alive and you’d have a mum and dad and who knows, you’d be married by now with kids and all, and life would be different and we wouldn’t be having this conversation'. But going back to ‘would you wanna see him', I said yes I would, but I’m not gonna be the guy that would have bitterness. 
 
 
  
  Saroo Brierley with his adoptive mother Sue and his biological mother in Khandwa
 
 
  
 I think it will resonate in so many different ways, from social to science to a shift in the community in regards to adoption. For a couple that wants to have a child, there’s the option of IVF, but then have a look at adoption as well. And in some countries, adoption isn’t available, and that’s quite sad because the mom who doesn’t want to go through having a child herself or IVF, and prefers to adopt, and it’s not available – I think politicians need to lower their guard in this area. 
 
  
 I’d say that you go back to normal everyday life and you embrace this new change. I think for me it’ll be writing a prequel to A Long Way Home, and hopefully in the future the sequel. Why make life so dull when you can make it exciting and meet amazing people and go to countries and see things? You make life the way you want it to be. A lot of people don’t realize that at the end of the day, the ultimate control of what you do and your destiny, it lies in the way you want to direct yourself. For me, it’s embracing this and getting into writing unique, profound, humanitarian stories that make people feel that they’re alive, more than flesh and blood, stories that are a testament to the human spirit. I think there should be more stories and movies like this out there, but they’re hard to come by because people don’t want to tell them, because it’s so personal. You don’t want the stigma, you don’t want to be labelled as different because you’ve spoken out.
 
  
 
 
