PUNE: An injured   lying on the taxiway took the Lohegaon airport authorities by surprise on Sunday night.
Some airport officials spotted the snake, measuring 7ft-and-3 inches, around 9.30pm. The protected schedule-1 species under the  , 1972, was barely moving. It is not known how the snake landed near the taxiway and the reasons for its injuries.
 
 “When the snake was spotted, we thought it was dead. It was bleeding and not moving at all. But when it was placed in a bucket, it moved a bit. Officials were shocked when they realized it was a python. We contacted  , a snake expert, and handed over the reptile to him,“ an airport official told TOI.
 
 Girish said that when the snake was handed over to him around 10pm, he also thought it was dead. “I have been rescuing snakes for the past nine years and can identify almost all the species. So, I immediately knew that it was an Indian Rock Python.We tried to contact many doctors, including the authorities of the snake park at Katraj, but could not get in touch with them,“ he said.
 
 As the condition of the snake was not good, Girish with his associates -Sachin and Alex -took it home and tried to save it.
 
 “We got in touch with Nashik's  , who is also into snake protection.He advised us to perform a CPR ( ) on the snake to revive it. A tube was inserted into its mouth and we blew air into it. The snake was bleeding from some places and we suspect it suffered severe internal injuries. We continued with the same process until 2.30am, following which the snake started to move,“ Girish said.
 
 Once the snake started breathing, Girish and his friends put it in a box to warm it up. They were hopeful that it might survive until the morning so that they could contact a doctor for its treatment. “But unfortunately , the snake died around 5am,“ Girish said.
 
 The Indian Rock Python or Python Molurus is found in the Indian mainland, except the north eastern parts and the islands.
 
 Its presence has been recorded in states like Andhra Pradesh, Haryana, Chhattisgarh, Goa, Gujarat and Maharashtra.
 
 “In Maharashtra, the species is mainly found in the Western Ghats. It is surprising as to how the injured snake reached the Pune airport area. Around two years ago, we had rescued the same species after it was found near the Vishrantwadi police station,“ Girish said.
 
 He said now the authorities should consider the presence of Indian Rock Python in the city after the species was found twice in Pune.
 
