NEW DELHI: The government told the   on Wednesday that even if 
  , it could not attain a status higher than the right to food ensured through   for 270 million impoverished people.

 A nine-judge Constitution bench headed by Chief Justice J S Khehar tried its best to elicit a direct “yes” or “no” reply from attorney general K K Venugopal to the limited question before the court: whether or not privacy enjoyed the status of a fundamental right.
 
 The attorney general refused to rise to the bait and kept stepping around the question.
 
 He came closest to an answer when he told the bench, “Privacy, even if assumed to be a fundamental right, consists of a large number of subspecies. Each and every subspecies of privacy cannot be elevated to the status of a fundamental right.” 
 
 
 
 He cautioned the bench, also comprising Justices J Chelameswar, SA Bobde, RK Agrawal, RF Nariman, AM Sapre, DY Chandrachud, Sanjay K Kaul and S Abdul Nazeer, against approaching the   as a homogeneous right. 
 
 “The argument of the petitioners is that the right to privacy is part of right to life. But even right to life is not absolute as the Constitution permits depriving a person of right to life through due procedure of law,” Venugopal said.
 
 “It will be constitutionally impermissible to declare each and every instance of privacy as a fundamental right, whatever be the extent of its violation, erosion or encroachment. Privacy has varied connotations when examined from different aspects of liberties.
 
 If the Supreme Court wants to declare it as a fundamental right, then it probably has to determine separately the various aspects of privacy and the extent of violation that could trigger a constitutional remedy,” he added.
 
 Despite the court clarifying from time to time that it was not examining the right to privacy in the context of Aadhaar, Venugopal kept drawing comparison between right to privacy and right to life. “On one hand, a few sensitive individuals are complaining about violation of privacy because Aadhaar required collection of biometrics and address details, on the other hand Aadhaar has ensured that food reached 270 million persons who live below the poverty line through social welfare schemes,” he said.
 
 “It is for SC to decide whose right is more important — 
  to improve the lives of impoverished millions whose existence is often termed by the SC as animal existence, or right to privacy of some individuals. We will accept the verdict with humility. Iam saying so with all humility,” the AG said.
 
 He said the   has commended India for Aadhaar-linked distribution of food and other items to the poor as one which ensures that the targeted population gets benefits under social welfare schemes. It urged every developing nation to emulate India.
 
 “In view of the fact that a large section of people would be deprived of basic needs if the claim of the petitioners to a fundamental right to privacy is accepted, even if a fundamental right to privacy is held to exist in respect of some other claims, no such right, as claimed by petitioners, should be recognised as a fundamental right,” Venugopal said.
 
