MALAPPURAM: A day after police recovered the decomposed body of   resident Vazhayil Sayid, the probe team suspects that a group promoting   and sorcery might have influenced the family in Malappuram. 

 The family from   had kept his body inside a room for nearly four months believing that their prayers would eventually resurrect him.
 
 Police said that they found Sayid's body in a room where his wife, daughters and son were praying on Wednesday. This happened after a relative visited the house and suspected something was not right at Sayid's home.
 
 Perinthalmanna CI Saju K Abraham said that police will consider the demand of residents that some external factors might have led to the incident. He said that the woman was not 'sound in mind' and that her children were okay. The youth had completed his degree course, while his siblings (aged 13 and seven) had stopped their schooling two years ago. Also, Sayid was being treated for diabetes for the past two years.
 
  "From the evidence collected from the room (where the decomposed body was kept), we believe that there is a possibility that sorcery or black magic might be a factor in this case. A team of scientific experts will visit the spot on Friday to collect more evidence. Preliminary interrogation revealed that the woman believed in superstition and sorcery. She may have been practising it too," he said, adding that it would be near impossible for the family to continue such a superstitious vigil without external support.
 
 Meanwhile the autopsy report revealed Sayid had died a natural death. "The autopsy revealed that there were no internal injuries and he was being treated for diabetes. Relatives told us that Sayid had injured his legs recently. The lack of proper care and treatment might have led to his death," he said.
 
 President of   grama panchayat K Rajagopal - who visited the house - said the family led a secluded life and residents were not allowed anywhere near their property. "They were an odd lot. It is strange that nobody from the family ever spoke or met their neighbours for several years. People here feel that somebody or some group from outside had a role in this matter," he said.
 
 Meanwhile, police who had collected the family's statement would summoned them once again for a detailed interrogation.
 
