BENGALURU: The Union sports ministry's committee, which will hold a two-day meeting to frame the National Sports Development Code in New Delhi from Friday, will be seized of two basic issues that racks national sports federations in the country.

 One is the membership and the voting pattern during elections to these federations and the other the tenure of office bearers that ranges from one year to the widely-accepted four. Despite having worked assiduously towards making NSFs accept the Code in the past few years, the government has not been able to convince many of them to follow set norms on matters pertaining to membership and voting as well as tenure.
 
 While the National Sports Development Bill calls for one state, one vote, there are a few federations which have stuck to individual and club membership while another even stipulates differential vote allotment to its members.
 
 "For example, the   ( ), which has only a few state associations as its members, still encourages life members and clubs to vote. The   too allows clubs to vote as it has no state association as its member," a source told TOI.
 
 EFI statutes state that state associations, institutions, clubs or unit get two votes while an individual member gets one. One proxy vote is allowed for individual members while state bodies and institutions get two.
 
 In fact, the sports ministry pulled up EFI recently, stating that the results of its elections held in 2015 have been withheld because of non-compliance to the Code. The points included proxy voting, government officials holding office for more than one term, cooling off period for secretary-general and treasurer after two terms amongst others. EFI has since amended its constitution.
 
 In the case of the   (AITA), a lot depends on enterprise. In addition to base votes, the federation prescribes bonus votes to its members purely on the number of events conducted by the state. Of its full members, 21 (states) have been allotted five votes each while eight have one vote each. Full members with three votes too figure in their fold. "Associate members on fulfilment of criteria to be laid down by the AITA 's executive committee may be promoted... as full member with voting right of one vote. On fulfilment of further conditions, the central council can increase the voting strength to either 3 or 5 votes," its constitution states.
 
 The distribution of votes is unequal in the   as well. While the number of votes for state associations depend on the number of courses they have, golf clubs, who too have been roped in as members, get votes depending on their yardage and membership.
 
 IGU's tenure clause too differs from the norm set by the government. Its president gets only one term of one year while the secretary and treasurer cannot be in office for more than three terms of two years. The term is three years in yachting. The secretary-general is nominated by the president and gets no voting rights. 
 
