NAGPUR: Angered by the menace of corruption in the country and in her state, Kiran Thakre, 23, a resident of Mahal, decided to contest the   elections, becoming one of youngest candidates to enter the fray among a total of 1135 candidates.

 Thakre, who is part of the ‘Aam Aadmi Shahar Vikas Manch’, a platform floated by social activist Jammu Anand and is a BA graduate, said that she wanted to inspire youngsters to take up politics as a career so that it gets rid of the corruption tag.
 
 “In Nagpur, for example, many of the internal roads are in a bad condition, street lights are not functioning, and there is water shortage as well. If there was no corruption, we would be getting all these facilities. Therefore, I decided to fight the polls myself and bring about the change in society that people want to see,” she said.
 
 Team TOI spotted her during a campaign in prabhag number 18 (Mahal area) where she was campaigning. Interestingly, with an open heart and folded hands, Thakre was seen telling the citizens that she was the daughter of a maid servant and her father was a labourer and has decided to fight for the common man in elections. 
 
 And in an honest step, she has been moving house to house with a box in her hand, appealing the people to not only cast their valuable vote in her favour but also contribute financially. “The amount is being used for my election campaigning,” she added. 
 
 Kiran has raised very pertinent issues by posing questions like ‘should poor not contest elections? And is it that the poor should not dream to become people’s representatives?
 
 Kiran is elder sister of deceased Yogita Thakre who was found dead in the car of a union minister who too resides in Mahal area. Yogita was hardly seven years old at the time. She courageously fought for justice and the fight is still continuing.
 
 Defeating all hardship and odds in life she not only continued here studies and graduated but become an activist and wedded herself to the cause of poor and working class. She says poor has to come forward and mobilize funds from the society and in return serve the society. 
 
 “It is very important for youngsters to come forward and participate in politics as they bring a lot of zeal and courage to the profession.”
 
 Kiran is not alone. There are several young candidates contesting the elections this time. Samidha Pandey, a NCP candidate from Prabhag number 14 has decided to contest this election not just to win but to bring good politics as an answer to bad politics. “No politics cannot be the answer to bad politics,” said 38-year-old Pandey.
 
 “I have decided to contest the elections at a young age because politics as a career is not bad when you truly want to work for the welfare of the society. I think that instead of blaming the system, one should get actively involved in it to clean from the inside,” Pandey a PhD holder said.
 
 Another young candidate Dr Jenika Kungwani, 27 and a mother of four month old daughter, who is also a dentist, said that there a lot of civic issues which Nagpur residents face and therefore, she decided to fight the elections to resolve all these problems. “I appeal to the residents to participate in these elections so that only the best candidates are chosen.” 
 
