BENGALURU: If everything goes as planned by the government, all state highways will soon turn into green corridors on the lines of   proposed by the Centre.
There are 14 national high ways and 114 state highways with a total length of 28,311 km in Karnataka. Of these, state highways are more as they are the arterial routes linking district headquarters, important towns and national highways.
 
 Additional chief secretary , forest and environment,   said the government has proposed to develop eco-friendly roads by earmarking one per cent of the civil cost of   for planting of saplings.This will cover both the existing sections as well as new routes that would be added to the network, he added.
 
 The road contractor will have to sign a pact to ensure strict compliance of planting of saplings on highways they develop and their maintenance. The saplings which are over three years old have to be planted in every 5-metre gap on both sides, he said. “The plan is to grow   in a particular area, depending on soil suitability, climate and availability,“ he added.
 
 “Planting of saplings will reduce the impact of air noise pollution and dust, soil erosion and provide shade under the scorching sun. It will also help prevent the glare from headlights of fast-approaching vehicles, and generate more employment,“ a senior public works department official said.
 
 
 
 
 The green highway scheme of the Karnataka government resonates well with changing climate in the state. Such schemes are badly needed now with the state facing severe pollution and deficit rainfall. If implemented well, the plantation drive can become an integral part of highway construction and it can bring the state's 20,000-odd kilometres of highways under the green cover, hugely contributing to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. But the policy faces two major impediments -land availability and the commitment to plant and maintain such greenery on a long-term basis. Since the government plans to execute about Rs 5,000-crore worth road projects in a year, the annual corpus for the green fund will be around Rs 50-60 crore.Scientific selection of tree species is needed and the government should ensure they are cared for in a sustained manner. It's better late than never that this idea is taking root.
 
