Ludhiana: In a post-GST shocker for businessmen, the Excise and Taxation department has announced that under the new rules, if a consignment of goods is found without invoice or valid documentation, action would not only be taken against the seller of the goods, but penalty could also be imposed on the buyer and the transporter of the goods. 

 This was informed by the state’s excise and taxation commissioner Vivek Partap Singh during his visit to Ludhiana on Thursday. Speaking on the issue, Singh said, “The enforcement rules of the GST clearly state that a transporter is also like a dealer, and if any consignment being transported by him is found to be without bill or proper documentation, the department can take action against him and the buyer, in addition to the action to be taken against the seller.”
 
 Meanwhile, the new law has created a furore among transporters and businessmen who are demanding that the GST council immediately scrap the law because it was unfair to penalise transporters or buyers for the sellers’ fault. According to NPC Transport Association president Kirpal Singh Sandhu, “This kind of law reflects the dictatorial attitude of the central government and their ministers. How can a transporter be punished for the fault of someone else who furnishes incomplete or wrong documents? As a transporter, we have truckloads of consignments belonging to multiple parties. How can we check discrepancies in the documents of all the people? This is totally unjustified, and we oppose it. We have called a meeting of our association members and the next course of action will be decided then.”
 
 Speaking to TOI over the issue, Fasteners Manufacturers Association of India president Narinder Bhamra said, “These kind of draconian laws defeat the GST’s purpose. If my vendor has problems in his papers due to any fault or mistake of his, why should I be punished for that? This is beyond my understanding what the government and department would achieve by enforcing such a law aimed at destroying businesses. We are totally against it, and it should be rolled back immediately.”
 
 
