SHIMLA: Issuing notification to officially declare Dharamshala as the second capital of   would take some time as the government would have to take the opinion of finance and other concerned departments to assess the burden on the state exchequer as huge cost would be involved in it. Besides, approval also needs to be taken from the cabinet.

 Sources said that for the second capital, not only all the offices need to be established, but also the accommodation for ministers, secretaries and other staff needs to be provided which requires investment of several crores.
 
 After chief minister   announced Dharamshala as the second capital of Himachal Pradesh, not only the BJP but even some   leaders started questioning the decision. While Congress leaders in Kangra district are supporting the announcement, health minister Kaul Singh Thakur said having one or two capitals does not make any difference. Former general secretary   too differed with Virbhadra on the issue.
 
 Leader of opposition Prem Kumar Dhumal too had questioned the decision. He said the government has not been able to provide required facilities or create basic amenities in Shimla and is taking new loans to repay the old loans, but even then it is making populist announcement as assembly elections are due this year in the state. Dhumal said due to financial mismanagement of Congress government in last four years, state has been trapped into “debt web” as the state already has debt of Rs 36,000 crore and now fresh loan of Rs 1,000 crore is being taken, that too when Rs 700 crore loan was taken just two months back.
 
 Hamirpur BJP MP Anurag Thakur said it is extremely unfortunate to see the chief minister of the state misleading people for his personal political gains. He said first capital, Shimla, has already been destroyed by Virbhadra and now he is envisaging of doing the same to Kangra. “Senior ministers from Congress have also expressed concerns towards having a second capital as it won’t benefit the state, rather it would add to the financial burden. But when has people’s benefit been Virbhadra Singh’s priority!” he said.
 
