NAGPUR: Nagpur bench of  , on Thursday, forced the contractor firms, including RJ Shah and Company and D Thakkar Constructions Private Limited, to withdraw their petitions for quashing FIR lodged against them in Rs70,000 crore scam in Maharashtra’s irrigation projects.
 
 A division bench comprising justice Ravi Deshpande and justice Zaka Haq informed the petitioners that it would be rejecting their pleas, as they failed to substantiate on why the police complaints against them should be set aside. However, former divisional officer at Vidarbha Irrigation Development Corporation (VIDC) -- Chandan Jibhkate’s application was rejected, as he failed to withdraw it.
 
 Those who withdrew the application included — Kalindi and Tejaswini Shah, both directors of RJ Shah and Company, Jigar, Vishal and Pravin Thakkar, directors of D Thakkar Constructions, Arun Gupta and former executive engineer Vasudeo Parvate. A battery of lawyers, including senior counsel Anil Mardikar, Anand Parchure, Shashibhushan Wahane and Sangram Sirpurkar pleaded on behalf of petitioners, while government pleader   represented the state.
 
 According to the petitioners, VIDC invited the tenders for project on May 28, 2009, and published it in newspapers and its website. The accused firms entered into joint collaboration to complete the project.
 
 An NGO Jan Manch then filed PIL while making a slew of allegations of corruption against various contractors entrusted with the work of various projects without naming the firms. 
 
 The government then constituted a three-member committee to inquire into the allegations and concluded that no case was made out against the applicants. It later came to light that the state had not acquired any land for the project, nor any work was executed by the joint venture. The applicants communicated the same to executive engineer at Ambhora Lift Irrigation in Bhiwapur division. The petitioners informed the authorities in writing that the terms of the contract were breached and they don’t want to continue the work.
 
 However, the   (ACB) issued notices to the joint venture under Section 166 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC). Subsequently, an FIR was lodged under provisions of the Prevention of Corruption Act in accordance with Sections 420, 468, 471, 109 and 120B of the IPC, at   Station. They stressed on that there was no need to conduct an enquiry by either ACB or CBI. 
 
 The petitioners contended that action taken against them is result of PIL. They had requested the court to include them as respondents and grant them an interim relief, but they were told that they were not necessary party as the government would be conducting an open house enquiry.
 
 (With inputs from  )
 
