NAGPUR: More serious violations have come to fore in the Tajshree Honda showroom at Deo Nagar on Khamla road. Building plan sanction for it was obtained for mixed residential and commercial use but the structure is being utilized only commercially since it was constructed eight years ago.

 RTI activist TH Naidu has obtained information about the building under the RTI Act. Documents revealed the land on which the showroom constructed falls in Residential-II Zone. A purely commercial building is not permitted in Residential-II zone. Mixed use-- residential plus commercial-- or total residential use is permitted.
 
 Showroom owner AP and Associates on November 30, 2007, obtained building plan sanction from Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) town planning department for residential and commercial purposes. Sanctioned map also obtained under the RTI Act revealed bedroom, living room, kitchen etc earmarked in the building. However, total building is being utilized as showroom for selling and servicing of two-wheelers.
 
 Citing same violation, the town planning department rejected revised building plan of Tajshree on January 30 this year. Following this, AP and Associates filed an appeal with the state’s urban development department (UDD) in February. The town planning department filed reply to UDD query on it on September 2 citing same violation. The department also pointed out other violations that TOI had exposed from time to time in the last four years. The department recommended that the UDD reject the appeal filed by AP and Associates.
 
 Following a complaint from corporator  , NMC Laxmi Nagar zone had issued a notice under Section 53 of Maharashtra Regional and Town Planning (MRTP) Act on April 9, 2010. The civic body directed the owner to demolish unauthorized constructions and stop unauthorized usage within one month. The unauthorized constructions and usages continued with NMC taking no action.
 
 TOI exposed various violations in the building on December 24, 2012, and four more times subsequently. Laxmi Nagar Zone again issued a notice to AP and Associates on December 28, 2015, giving a deadline of January 12 this year. Naidu told TOI violations in the building had increased after the notices issued by the NMC. “Parking spaces in the building are utilized totally for commercial purposes. High Court had time and again directed NMC to ensure action on misuse of parking spaces. Still, NMC has continued to protect the showroom for last six years. NMC knew the sanction was for residential and commercial use but never took action. NMC officials are hand in glove with the violators,” he said.
 
 NMC official from Laxmi Nagar Zone told TOI action will be taken after a decision of UDD on the appeal. “NMC wrote to the police department for taking action against showroom but nothing was done,” he said. Naidu added NMC was the authority and had powers to take action under MRTP Act but was passing the buck to police department to favour the violator.
 
 
