LUDHIANA: A day after two   shot dead   in Peeru Banda Mohalla, Saleem Tabri, his relatives claimed that they had been noticing   for the past two months.

 “Some suspicious-looking men were making rounds of the area, clicking pictures and making videos of the church and also of the address on its board. During the silver jubilee function of the church on May 31, about 20 to 25 miscreants arrived and accused the pastor of conversion. There was a campaign going on against the church and the priest on a social networking site, too, saying ‘no conversions’,” said Stephen Sidhu, a relative of the deceased and Youth Congress leader. 
 
 The two eyewitnesses to the incident, David, 11, and Samuel, 17, said around 8.30pm, they were standing outside the church when they saw the priest talking to someone on his mobile phone. They said, “After sometime, two youths, around 20-25 years of age, with faces covered, came on a motorcycle from Jagraon Bridge side and shot at him about four times. Within a minute, they sped towards Jalandhar Bypass. We, and another person who had come to say prayers, were on the church premises. Wife of the pastor and his son took him to hospital.” 
 
 Raju Masih, younger brother of the deceased, said his brother had no enemies and he had not told him about threat to his life. He said every day he would come and sit outside the church, but on Saturday he had gone to get medicines for his back problem.
 
 Naveen Masih, nephew (sister’s son) of the deceased, said his uncle was killed to disrupt peace in the state and the accused should be arrested immediately. 
 
 One of the members of the community said the streetlights in front of the church were not working, which speaks of how safe the city was. He said the church, which housed the residence of the deceased on the first floor, had four CCTV cameras installed and the one on first floor had captured the incident.
 
 Chairman of Council of Churches in Ludhiana K Koshy said the priest had got a call from someone who wanted to come to the church to which he agreed. “After sometime, he got a call saying that they were standing outside. He went out and was shot by unidentified miscreants. The police have the CCTV footage and also the phone of the priest,” he added. 
 
 Meanwhile, the Ludhiana police have constituted a special investigation team (SIT) to probe the killing. “Deputy commissioner of police (crime) Gagan Ajit Singh will head the SIT and other members will be additional deputy commissioner of police-I Rattan Singh Brar and ACPs Maninder Bedi and Amandeep Singh Brar,” said commissioner of police Rajindra Dhoke. He added that they were exploring all angles, and family, relatives and friends were being questioned.
 
 Sources in police said the priest was shot with .32 bore pistol.
 
 He said a list of the visitors to the church was being prepared. He urged the members of Christian community to maintain peace. A note from district public relations officer (DPRO), Ludhiana, said, “The Punjab government has announced to give job to a kin of the deceased and Rs 5 lakh compensation.” 
 
 
