NAGPUR: “A multidisciplinary and collaborative research work will pave the way to develop elements of a  ,” said VM Nanoti, principal of   Institute Of Engineering & Technology on Friday.

 He was speaking during an international conference organized by the college.
 
 “In order to collectively eradicate the   of the country, it is necessary to understand the behavioural science of each field. An efficient component is built when knowledge of people from all walks of life is clubbed,” he said.
 
 The theme for the conference was ‘Innovations & Development for Future Smart Cities’. As many as 80 research papers from across the globe were   to be published in international journals. More than 500 students and scholars of all backgrounds enrolled for the event.
 
 Former DRDO scientist Dr Ande Murali Varaprasad, professor at Dayanand Sagar University (Bengaluru) Vaibhav Meshram, and director operations at Corporate Professional Academy (Secunderabad) Vijay Tharad were the keynote speakers during the first day of the two-day open-for-all conference.
 
 “Developing a Smart City means making all systems smart,” said SB Deshpande, dean of research & development. “There is scope of improvement in systems like transportation, medical, sewerage, safety, environment, etc. Such an initiative is a platform to exchange ideas of students and researchers. It will broaden their vision and help them discover their area of interest,” Tharad said.
 
 Varaprasad threw light on Navigation using Indian Constellation (NAVIC), which is similar to GPS. He said, “The apps in our smartphones are based on GPS of American satellite. We need to develop apps related to public amenities and interests that are compatible with our own NAVIC.”
 
 According to Meshram, nanotechnology is the driving force of IOT (Internet of Things). He said, “Convergence of electronics can be seen these days as device size is getting reduced. This calls for a paradigm shift in studies from Newtonian physics to quantum.”
 
 College vice-principal GM Asutkar urged that budding researchers should come up with innovations for people to save their time, ease their task and promote healthy community living.
 
 AS Sambare was the convener of the function. Abhijeet Deshmukh, director of Lokmanya Tilak Jankalyam Shikshan Sanstha, was also present on the occasion.
 
 
