GURUGRAM: When a flat costs anywhere between Rs 4 crore and Rs 8 crore, you would believe they come with a certain guarantee of quality. But   of La Lagune, a premium condominium on Golf Course Road, are discovering otherwise, as is evident from the pockmarked   facades of its residential towers. 

 Over the last couple of years, glass panes have come loose from the frames of the facades of the towers, and crashed on to the premises, in some cases injuring residents, apartment owners have said. A total of 132 glass panes, each 7 ft by 4 ft, have fallen from different floors, right up to the 18th storey of the condominium, according to residents. So far, only 42 panes have been replaced. 
 
 “Some residents have been  . Others, including kids, women and elderly, have had narrow escapes,” said Kuldeep Kohli, president of La Lagune Apartment Owners Association. He alleged the developer is yet to find a permanent solution to the issue.
 
 Spread over 11.34 acres in Sector 54, La Lagune has 11 towers, each with 18 floors and 314 flats. Some months ago, DTCP, along with the La Lagune architect, found the panes were falling off because of a structural defect in the way they had been fixed.
 
 “Apart from the danger it poses to residents’ lives, it’s also causing us mental agony — there are approximately 1,500 glass planes in the towers that could   off. Despite repeated pleas, the developer has not done much, apart from replacing some panes,” said Kohli.
 
  The matter was raised at two Allottee Grievance Redressal Forum (AGRF) meetings, on January 8 and August 12, 2016, following which, DTCP issued directions to the developer on May 27 and December 2 to resolve the problem. “We also held meetings with residents and developer on July 15 and September 29, 2016, directing the latter to resolve the matter immediately,” said assistant town planner (ATP) R S Batth. “The developer is yet to submit a proposal to ensure residents’ safety,” Batth added.
 
 A spokesperson for the developer, ABW Suncity, said, “A month ago, we issued a legal notice to the firm that supplied the glass façade and the contractor who fixed the panes. We’ll take further action.”
 
 The RWA also complained ABW Suncity was delaying handover of the society’s maintenance, that it’s yet to sign the ‘taking over’ agreement, and that all assets related to the society’s maintenance continue to be in the developer’s name. 
 
 In response, the ABW Suncity spokesperson said technically, upkeep has been handed over to the RWA, since it’s collecting maintenance charges. “We’ve also handed over around Rs 6.5 crore of the Rs 9 crore of interest bearing maintenance security, and will disburse the remaining amount soon,” the spokesperson said. 
 
