LUCKNOW:   Adityanath Yogi on Thursday directed senior officials in the state to take   taking the law in their own hands. The   was discussing reports of non-state individuals indulging in violence and moral policing under the garb of the government’s drive against illegal abattoirs and women’s harassers.

 Earlier, in a first, the CM paid a surprise visit to Hazratganj police station of the state capital sending the khaki clad into a tizzy. The half an hour inspection ended with Yogi announcing that this was certainly not his last visit and the exercise will continue till the “rule of law” is established once again in the state.
 
 “It may be my first visit, but it is certainly not the last,” the CM, who has retained the state home ministry with him in the portfolio allocation on Wednesday evening, said talking to the media after the inspection.
 
  Summing up his inspection, Yogi said now the police will register all complaints that come to them and assured performance of the cops will not be judged on the basis of crime statistics but on the sense of security that the police creates among the people.
 
 It was around 11:10 am when the CM’s motorcade reached Hazratganj police station with the director general of police (DGP) Javeed Ahmed in tow. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Manzil Saini, who apparently got a clue from the unscheduled movement of CM’s fleet on city roads, was present at the police station. Minutes later, inspector general of police (IG) Lucknow Zone A Satish Ganesh and deputy IG Lucknow Range Praveen Kumar joined them.
 
 Thereafter the CM headed for the Mahila Thana situated in the same compound and enquired about the status of basic amenities like washroom and their accommodation. “We have basic facilities and a hostel for housing” replied constable Priyanka. Yogi asked them to handle complaints of women seriously and try to extend immediate relief to the victims by offering them a patient hearing and assured the women cops that steps will be taken for providing them with housing facilities instead of the hostels.
 
 
