SHILLONG: The crucial I-League tie between   and   lived up to its billing on Wednesday and entertained the 6000-plus spectators present at   Stadium here. While the home team, starting once again with eight under-22 players, dazzled with their pace and movement, heavyweights Mohun Bagan withstood the storm to deny them a victory. The 1-1scoreline ensured that Sanjay Sen-guided Mohun Bagan dethroned   from the top spot by virtue of a superior goal difference.

 While substitute   scored for the visitors five minutes after being introduced, league top-scorer Aser Dipanda Dicka equalized from the spot just three minutes later. Bagan now have 30 points from 15 games while Lajong stay fourth with 24 points from as many matches. The home side made their in tentions clear in the first 20 minutes by unleashing a barrage of attacks on the Mohun Bagan goal. After a couple of early corners as tepid warning to the visitors, it was the league top-scorer Dicka who got the evening's first shot on target. The Lajong striker went for an overhead kick inside the Bagan box in the 11th minute, but his shot lacked the punch to get a breakthrough.
 
 In the 16th minute, a long ball from the half-line was chested down by Dicka as Redeem Tlang's screamer of a shot was just kept out by goalie Debjit Majumdar's right hand and the bar. It was, in fact, the best chance of the half. Debjit was forced to make another crucial save in less than a minute as he parried a Dicka effort from the edge of the box and save Bagan the blushes. The Mariners seemed to be at a loss as the hosts kept attacking while Sony Norde and Darryl Duffy were left stranded in the other half, without the ball reaching them.
 
 It was only in the latter part of first half that Bagan began to make some inroads into the opposition box. Although Katsumi, Norde and Duffy tried a lot, they were met with strong defending by Lajong. Then goalkeeper and Man-of-the-Match Vishal Keith came up with an excellent save to a low cross from the right flank by youngster  . In the 43rd minute, Mohun Bagan appealed for a penalty when a Norde shot inside the box looked to have hit the arm of a Lajong defender. But the referee awarded a corner only.
 
 The second half began with the Mariners making a change, bringing in midfielder   in place of last match's star Azharuddin in the hope of creating more chances from the right wing.
 
