HYDERABAD:Societal pressure coupled with parents being in denial mode often keep   from joining de-addiction programmes, say city psychologists. While discouraging this attitude, they appeal to parents to take serious note of this issue instead and seek help immediately.

 “It is inane to think that children will enroll for these de-addiction programmes on their own. But most of the times their parents are in denial mode and make themselves forcibly believe that there’s nothing wrong with their child. In some cases, parents too have a history of consuming drugs and are confident that, like them, even their children will give it up at some stage. However, both this approaches don’t work in majority of the cases,” said Dr  , a psychiatrist working with de-addiction centres for the last three decades. 
 
 In fact   activists, who had offered to facilitate free counselling and treatment to children addicted to drugs – if they came forward post the recent drug bust – rue how they have not received a single response till date. “It’s been 20 days since we announced that we will facilitate a free de-addiction programme, but nobody has approached us so far. Now, we are planning to strengthen our awareness programme to see if it yields any result,” said  , a child right activist. 
 
 Educational institutions also call for a change in attitude among parents. “They should not ignore behavioural changes in their kids and should immediately seek help. If not, there are chances that the child will reach a point of no return,” said  , president, degree college association. 
 
 On a positive note, following the crackdown in schools and colleges, some psychiatrists say that there has been a visible rise in requests for home consultation. “Before the drug racket was busted, we got to hear of only one or two cases of a child, below the age of 16, being addicted to drugs. 
 
 But now there is at least a three-fold increase and we are getting frequent calls from parents requesting for home consultation as many children are locking themselves up in a room and not even allowing their parents inside,” said Dr   C, a psychiatrist whose area of expertise includes child psychology. He said how most parents introduce him as their friend or acquaintance to their child, as opposed to a psychiatrist, to initiate conversation. 
 
