BENGALURU: The opening of Mantri Square, which was shut following a   which left two persons injured on January 16, will have to wait for some time.

 A technical committee constituted by the BBMP to look into the structural safety of the mall submitted its report on Thursday, according to which seepage of water into the walls from the   led to the collapse.
 
 “Remedial measures have been suggested in the report, which will be shared with Mantri Developers, and they’ll have to comply with these. We will check their compliance and only then restore the occupancy certificate. Until then, the mall remains shut,” said BBMP commissioner N Manjunatha Prasad. The 47-page report pointed out that   had corroded the steel used in the RCC.
 
 “It looks like corrosion has been happening for a very long time due to seepage and, therefore, the collapse,” Prasad told TOI.
 
 “We will forward this report to the developers and they’ll first have to reply to us. After this, the company must comply with the rules like getting the structural stability of the building examined by experts. Then they have to take corrective steps as per the report, get certifications on the structural stability and the building’s strength and Floor area ratio (FAR). We will check the compliance to see if it’s in tune with the sanctioned plan. Only then shall we restore the occupancy certificate and the mall will be reopened,” the BBMP commmissioner explained.
 
 Prasad discussed the details of the report with mayor G Padmavathi on Thursday, and issued directions to be sent to the developers.
 
 A portion of the wall on the mall’s rear side collased on January 16, injuring two women who were working there. The mall had 2,000 people in it at the time of the accident; everyone was evacuated within half an hour. BBMP withdrew its occupancy certificate with immediate effect and ordered closure of the mall. It also set up a technical expert committee, headed by the BBMP chief, to investigate the matter. .
 
 The team visited the mall four times and collected material from the spot, which were then sent to laboratory for quality checks.
 
 Mantri Developers wasn’t available for comments.
 
