KOLKATA: The frontman of  ,  , was killed and his   were injured in an accident on the   near Gurap, Hooghly , on Tuesday morning.The band members were on their way to perform at a college in  .

 The five members of Dohar -Niladri Roy , Sandipan Pal, Rajib Das, Sudipta Chakraborty and Bhattacharya -were in an MUV , driven by Arnab Roy .Around 9.30am at Malancha, Gurap, the car, being driven at high speed, hit a road sign while swerving to the left and its right front wheel came off. The vehicle dragged along the railing for 10 feet before overturning and falling into the Nayajuli canal.Locals rushed in and brought out Bhattacharya, seated beside the driver, and the others and to ok them to Burdwan Medical College Hospital, where doctors declared him dead.
 
 The 47-year-old singer is survived by his wife and daughter.
 
 At Kolkata, the news of Bhattacharya's passing was met with shock and disbelief.People from all walks of life tro oped in to pay their last respects at Rabindra Sadan. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee, who described him as a “personal friend“, placed a wreath on his hearse when it was brought to Nabanna in the afternoon. She went to Rabindra Sadan and subsequently walked till Keora tala crematorium for the last rites. CPM leaders Md Salim and Surjya Kanta Mishra tweeted their condolence messages. So did CPM leader Sujan Chakraborty , who was also present at Rabindra Sadan. Artists Lopamudra Mitra, Joy Sarkar, Srikanto Acharya and Srijato also went to his Santoshpur home.
 
 Two of Dohar's surviving band members -Pal and Chakraborty -were referred to a Kolkata hospital for further treatment, while Das has been released. The condition of Niladri is critical, said hospital sources.
 
 Hooghly SP Sukesh Jain said a mechanical snag in the vehicle probably caused the accident. Forensic expert Chitrakhya Bhattacharya said overspeeding by an inattentive driver was the probable cause. Das said the driver lost control while overtaking a truck.
 
 (With inputs from Falguni Banerjee in Gurap and Md Asif in Burdwan)
 
