KOLKATA: The time to immerse Durga idols has been extended till 10pm on  , the state government told Calcutta high court while responding to a PIL on Friday. Earlier, the government had limited the   on September 30 till 6pm.

 At a Puja organizers’ meet on August 24, chief minister   had said: “This year, Durga Puja and Muharram fall on same day. Except for a 24-hour period — on Muharram day — immersions can take place on October 2, 3 and 4.” 
 
 State advocate-general Kishore Dutta told the court that idols will be immersed by 10pm on Dashami to prevent Puja festivities from clashing with Muharram processions. “Processions on the same day could lead to law and order issues. This isn’t the first time when the events have coincided. It happens every 25 years,” he said. At this, Acting Chief Justice   observed: “In Mumbai, Muharram and Ganesh Puja processions move together. Hats off to Mumbai Police.”
 
 The advocate-general clarified that the rallies in the run-up to Muharram will also follow restrictions. They will be allowed only till 4pm on September 29. No Muharram processions can be taken out on September 30, Dashami.
 
 The petitioners, Uttam Basak and  , however, want the immersion time on Dashami extended till 1.35 am (which is October 1). In their respective submissions before the division bench, they have pleaded that the almanac stipulates immersion till 1.35am (which according to the Hindu almanac is Dashami, but technically falls on October 1). Therefore, they argued, it was “prejudicial” on the part of the state to restrict the ritual till 6pm. 
 
 “My clients’ argument hinged on that fact that the verbal announcement on August 24 was not supported by any government notification. The advocate-general (Kishore Dutta) then said there was indeed a government order extending the immersion time to 10pm instead of 6pm. But it was passed on September 9, a fortnight after the announcement,” Chakraborty’s counsel Partha Ghosh said.
 
 At this, the ACJ asked, “Why not follow the almanac and extend the immersion timings to 1.35am?” The advocate-general replied: “The Muharram rallies could be out by then since the government has already curbed these processions till 10pm on Dashami.”
 
 The court then asked him if any Muharram processions had applied for permission after 10pm on Dashami. If no such applications had not been made yet, the court wanted to know if the immersion timing could be extended till 1.35am — as mentioned in the almanac. In reply, the advocate-general said he would have to consult the government as it was a “touchy issue”. The matter will come up for hearing again on Monday.
 
 
