In  , people say cheers with a variety of drinks. From spicy chaas to luscious milkshakes, plenty of options are available to lubricate conversations and to quench thirst

  
 
 
 Chaas is the social glue in the dry state of Gujarat. This staple drink of the   is de rigueur in sweltering weather before and after meals — day or night. “It would be impossible for any Gujarati to imagine life without chaas, whether it is homemade or ordered from the local dairy,” said Sonal Sojitra, a fashion stylist from Rajkot. “Buttermilk doubles up as an appetizer and a digestive drink after a full-fledged meal.”
 
 Traditionally made from curd that has been stabilized from full-fat milk, Gujarat’s chaas is often spiked with a dash of dry roasted cumin powder along with sea salt. Masala versions in Katargaam, Surat, have a mixture of uniformly chopped garlic and sprigs of fresh coriander. So loved is this lactose drink in the state that even upscale restaurants have it on their menu. “I may order fancy continental cuisine, and yet I love to top it up with masala chaas with a dollop of frothy white butter,” said  , an interior designer.
 
 For those with a sweet tooth, creamy lassis infused with flavours and enriched with dried fruit play the cocktail replica served in fancy glasses and beer mugs. The texture of such drinks is concentrated and the ingredients certainly make a meal in themselves. In Ahemedabad, khas flavoured lassi and royal rose faloodas are among the favourite thirst-quenchers. Gulab, rajwadi, and kesar versions of the Gujarati lassi — which are sweeter than their cousins of Punjab — are also popular.
 
 
 
 
 The down-to-earth nimbu pani has now gained a fashionable aperitif avatar. Sold on street carts all over the dry state, it is made in various versions and with different permutations and combinations. A Surat variety sells from pre-noon to dusk, offering respite from heat and providing peace to agonized intestines. It is made of mineral water, homemade masala, fresh lemon juice and sugar. It is topped with takmarias (pre-soaked sweet basil seeds) for a cooling effect. No one stops at one glass and refills are often followed up by one more.
 
 
 
 
 A local Surat drink which tastes like a rum–whiskey–soda cocktail was developed in 1927, during Gandhiji’s swadeshi call. This drink with a social purpose promotes Gandhiji’s prohibition movement while giving a dry high. Modern versions of thick milkshakes made with premium chocolates and brownies have a devoted following as well. People don’t mind paying for quality ingredients and pleasant presentation. These milkshakes are available across Gujarat. In Baroda, milkshakes lubricate conversations of the young and the old alike, when hanging out with friends and family.
 
 
 
 
 With prohibition laws becoming stricter, bottles of beer have been replaced by fizzy masala sodas. From Surat to Rajkot, bottles are popped nineteen to the dozen with snacky meals as well as spicy dinners. Masala sodas add zing to spicy Gujarati food and help wash down farsan like bhusu, khaman dhoklas; street food such as pau-bhaji, dabeli, and bhel-puri; as well as heavy meals with eggs and meat.
 
 
 
 
 Cold cocoa is a coveted post-dinner drink in Surat. Chilled and creamy, it has luscious cocoa content. The drink is equally popular during Ramzan and Navratri among people who fast. This favorite frappe is brought in piping hot, after which dozens of ice cubes are dunked in. In some outlets, a bespoke version with chopped cashewnuts is also available. Gujarat’s milkshakes have made inroads into other cities of India. 
 
 
 
 
 Buttermilk: Low-fat drink with healthy bacteria.  . Added ingredients like cumin have cooling properties. Helps fight against infection and heat.
 
 Takmaria: Magnificent source of fibre and omega-3. Body coolant that helps fight fat. Regulates blood sugar levels. Relieves constipation and is a natural antacid.
 
 Lemonade: Rejuvenates skin, controls high blood pressure, helps hydrate.
 
 Cocoa: Helps fight various neurodegenerative diseases, improves cardiovascular and brain health. Rich in iron and calcium.
 
