COLVA: The notification issued by the   and forests permitting   to be retained on the beach brought some relief to the owners, but it doesn’t seem like they would benefit from this move as the structures in the sand are not engineered to withstand the fury of the  

 Though the operators heaved a major sigh of relief as they would save anything between 1lakh and 1.5 lakh to erect and dismantle the structure, the reality is the notification came too late and therefore, they have not designed the shacks to endure the wind speeds during stormy weather.
 
 While welcoming the notification, president of All Goa Shack Owners Welfare Society,  , said, “This year, we will have to dismantle the structures as they aren’t as strong as those built on private property”.
 
 He said, “Private shacks are built with either concrete or wood which are able to take the beating of weather changes. Secondly, since these shacks have a permanent licence to sell alcohol, staff are engaged throughout the year and during heavy rains or high speed winds, they come together to save the property”.
 
 Another shack operator said that if authorities allow them to erect a stronger structure like a fabricated frame from next season, then they can think of keeping the structure on the beach by covering it with plastic.
 
 The present shack structure would be like house of matchsticks for the monsoon weather, said another shack operator. “After dismantling, we save a lot of wood that can be used the following year. We won’t be able to use this wood if we keep the shacks on the beach during the monsoon as per the notification”.
 
 A shack owner who operates from Benaulim beach suggested that since the government has identified, marked and fixed sites for shacks with proper measurements, the government could also design an uniform structure for all the shacks and also set it up. “As the allotment is done once in three years, the individual who bags the allotment, simply occupies the shack, runs it for three years and then hands it back to the government,” he said. 
 
