With four titles on the line,   lived up to the expectation with  , Auska and the authors of Pain retaining their titles, but the biggest moment of the night was the colossal break down of  . 
 
 
 
  
 A solid match to open the show and Strong was hot off the bat taking out Kilian Dane and Alexander Wolfe before the start of the match and then went on to battle the leader of the Sanity, Young. A hard-hitting affair with Strong connecting with a lot of high knees while Young managed a huge elbow drop and a wheelbarrow neck-breaker on the outside. Dane and Wolfe tried to interfere twice but Strong had Sanity scouted and nullified the numbers advantage of Sanity before hitting a modified Lumbar Check - a release suplex into a double knee back breaker - to earn a victory.
 
  
  
 
 
  
 A match for ages and worthy enough for the United Kingdom Championship. Tyler Bate and Pete Dunne bettered their UK Championship tournament finale and ran with the match, one of the best of the NXT TakeOvers. The crowd were hooked and chants of 'This is Awesome'. 'Holy Shit'. 'UK Wrestling' became common, and add to that good'ol JR on commentary alongside the ever-entertaining  , this match was a memorable one. Dunne was at his rugged best while Bate's technique was on point throughout. Bate had the upperhand early and seemed to have retained the title with corkscrew 450 from the top rope, but Dunne kicked out. Dunne then hit Bate with a vicious forehand and followed it up by a pump handle powerbomb to which Bate kicked out. Dunne however got his hands on the title by first intercepting Bate's suicide dive with an elbow following it up with his signature Bitter End, a pump handle flatliner to became the second ever   United Kingdom Championship.
 
  
  
 
 
  
 The triple threat lived up to the expectations with all three competitors putting their best foot forward. Asuka enjoyed the early proceedings with Riot and Cross going at each other. The tempo dropped for a brief while, but Riot show impressive wrestling skills to stand out. Cross too had her spots but it was Auska who retained the title after pinning Cross and Riot. Riot executed her finisher on Cross and went for a cover but Asuka crashed Riot with a knee to the face and got the 1-2-3. 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 It took time for Itami to warm up, but once he did Roode's early momentum was all gone and with blistering kicks and strikes Itami had the NXT champion reeling. Roode countered well with a blockbuster off the middle rope but got himself in a lot of trouble after missing Itami and crashing himself in the ring post shoulder first. The shoulder continued to hinder Roode and he failed to hit the Glorious DDT. Itami was hurt after Roode avoided a hesitation drop kick and Itami hit his ankle on the steel steps. Back in the ring, Itami tried two Go To Sleeps but Roode managed to evade it. Itami tried to close out Roode with a GTS but Itami's the bad leg gave away allowing Roode to hit the Glorious DDT, but Itami kicked out and hit Roode with another GTS. Roode however rolled out of the ring and the NXT champion kicked out by virtue of the time he got rolling outside. With a series of open palm strikes, Itami set up Roode for a fifth GTS but Roode countered with two straight Glorious DDTs to pick up the win. 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 To bump this match to the main event despite having the NXT title on line speaks volumes about the potential of this match. As earlier reported, #DIY's Tomasso Ciampa was injured two days prior in a house show and the effects of that was evident with Ciampa not moving well inside the ring. All the attention was on Johnny Gargano but AOP's superior strength game came to the fore. DIY though came back well executing one of the best spots of the night with a top of the ladder double drop on Akam and Rezar lying on two other ladders position between the ring and the barricade. Gargano found himself all alone at the top of the ladder before being intercepted by Paul Ellering who ate a superkick from Gargano. 
  
 Akam though saved the match and punished DIY. Ciampa was cornered with Akam ready to hit Ciampa face first with the ladder but Gargano pushed aside his tag partner and took the brunt. Ciampa then grabbed Rezar from the back and suplexed the big man on to a ladder that snapped in half. DIY then hit their knee strikes on Akam and proceeded to climb the ladder. AOP though got the ladder out of the way with DIY hanging on in the middle of the ring before Akam and Rezar grabbed them to hit a powerbomb followed by the super-collider and took the title.
 
  
  
 Following the loss, Chicago crowd showed their appreciation to DIY but Ciampa turned on his tag team partner Gargano and dished put a brutal punishment with two vicious knee strikes and then proceeded to hit white noise from the announcers' desk on to the ground.
 
  
  
 
