It has been a little over three years since   made his Bollywood debut with 'Heropanti'. Since then, he has delivered two box-office hits and a film that didn’t live up to expectations. With his fourth movie ' ' all set to hit screens this month, the actor gets candid about being the hero of the single-screen audience, why he won’t do an off-beat film anytime soon and how, despite all the criticism about his acting skills and unsavoury comments on social media, he intends to have the last laugh. Excerpts…

 
 I like to be prepared, but I don’t over-prepare. Also, it depends a lot on my co-actors’ performance; I adapt myself accordingly. I can usually pre-empt my co-actor’s reaction in a scene, but Nawazji ( , his 'Munna Michael' co-star) is an exception. He kept throwing unexpected reactions my way. It was wonderful because it made me up my game as an actor. I would feed off his energy. I learnt a lot from him.
 
 
 'Heropanti' was my pre-school and 'Munna Michael' feels like being in high school. I have learnt everything on the job. On the other hand, Nawazji is a product of the National School of Drama, where they teach you theory, voice modulation and breathing technique. He comes with a lot of experience and I can’t compare myself with that. Having said that, in 'Munna Michael', I could totally relate to him as far as his dance sequences were concerned. I taught him the steps the way a beginner would be taught, and for some strange reason, he would get the difficult steps right and not the easy ones. 
 
 
 
 I was always aware that I had big shoes to fill. There is a lot of competition out there and I had to prove that I am not just Jackie Shroff ka beta. My dad was not holding my hand. The challenge was to create my own identity and my own genre of films. The only person I look up to is  . Whatever little I have achieved is because of what I have learnt by watching him on the big screen. 
 
 
 I think about the audience first, they have accepted me for certain reasons. When I am offered an action film, I check if its emotional quotient and the incentive for the hero to save the heroine are strong. Otherwise, it just becomes a show reel. The audience will applaud my action sequences only when these factors fall into place.
 
 
 I hadn’t planned on that, but I am thankful that B and C centres have accepted me as a hero. Many people tell me that appealing to the masses is one of my biggest achievements. My father told me that Salman (Khan) sir’s and Shah Rukh (Khan) sir’s fans include rickshaw drivers, bus drivers, kids, middle-aged people, aunties, uncles and the elderly. I have a huge responsibility because I am catering to that audience. 
 
 
 I would think three times before saying yes to an offbeat film. Right now, the focus is on establishing myself, creating an impact and becoming a bankable star. I want my run rate to be on the higher side; I want to drive home the fact that I am a certain kind of hero. I can’t forget what has helped me come so far. Luckily, my line-up includes '  2' and 'Student Of The Year 2', which will hopefully tap into a different kind of audience. And then, there’s 'Rambo', from which there are a lot of expectations.
 
 
 I don’t mind a negative role like Hrithik sir’s in 'Dhoom 2' — an anti-hero. But, I will never play a villain because movies are powerful platforms to motivate, inspire and guide people. I have a huge following among kids and I don’t want to misguide them. I do action films, but the violence is not gory. I am very conscious about it. It’s more like what Jackie Chan does — stylised and fun.
 
 
 I remember watching his performance in Mumbai during the History Tour. I was about five years old at that time. My father was carrying me on his shoulders and I fell asleep. However, even at that age, I could sense that there was a phenomenon in front of me. I couldn’t fathom much, but I could feel the energy. 
 
 
 I pay attention to the critics and I have immense respect for them. But, I only follow those who are unbiased — reviews help me push my limits and work harder. I want to prove them wrong soon. Also, they have to pick on something, right? Nobody is perfect.
 
 
 Everybody has the freedom of speech. It’s up to them to decide whether they are right or wrong. Most of the people who have made derogatory comments — maybe I shouldn’t be saying this — where are they in their lives? Instead of spending time talking negatively about someone, why don’t you use that time to do something positive? As far as I am concerned, I am like a race horse and I only see the finish line. I have my blinkers on, I am focussed and the goal is to always have the last laugh. 
 
 
 The heroines are the heroes in my films. They drive the plot. In 'Heropanti' and 'Baaghi', I was fighting for the girl. In 'A Flying Jatt', I was fighting for my mother. So, my movies have always been female-centric. 'Munna Michael' is no different. He gives up his dreams for the girl and urges her to live her dreams.
 
 
 
 
