Vasco: The impact of Mormugao Port Trust’s proposed channel dredging on surrounding houses was the subject of debate on the sixth day of the public hearing, with people demanding that MPT not be allowed to carry out dredging of the channel as it was destroying the coastline and destabilising the land.  When questioned about the dredging, MPT officials said that maintenance dredging has been carried out at regular intervals over the years, to which a Khariawada resident, Jacinto Souza, highlighting how the resultant increase in water level in the immediate coastal region had caused land erosion. “Tournaments used to be held at the Khariawada beach. Today there is no beach left due to soil erosion,” Souza said buttressing his argument on the ecological damage already caused by dredging. He added that houses at Baina, Khariawada and on the Sada plateau are at risk and that a small beach between berth No 7 and 8 has disappeared and a high tension tower under MPT’s jurisdiction had to be removed because of water level. A local, Avinash Tavares, said that such projects usually affected the three layers of land and that once the soil layer was lost, the clay layer gets washed away resulting in landslides. “The ground water mixes with saline water and there is no fresh water left,” he added. Saying that MPT came into existence in 1963, under the Major Ports Act, which was earlier known as Captain of Ports, Souza added that as such, MPT is a tenant and the landlords of the land are still present. He alleged that the indigenous fishing community of the Mormugao taluka has been displaced to facilitate various activities of the MPT. On the subject of MPT’s proposed increase in terminal capacity of berths 5A and 6A, MPT officials said that they had applied for the permission on September 21, 2016, to which Souza read out the minutes of the meeting held between the state government and the people of Khariawaddo a couple of years ago wherein it was agreed that MPT will not be given permission for expansion.  Parish priest of St Andrew’s Church, Fr Gabriel Coutinho said that the pollution was so much that they cannot even start the fans in the church.  The public hearing on dredging will resume on Thursday.