PATIALA: ‘Rajmata’  , wife of the last ruler of the Patiala State, had left Congress and joined Janata Party following Emergency.

 On Monday, ‘Rajmata’ passed away at the age of 94 at   in Patiala.
 
 Her father Sardar Harchand Singh Jaijee was a nobleman of Patiala State and a member of the Patiala State Peoples’ Forum (Patiala Riyasat Prajya Mandal), an affiliate of the Indian National Congress. She had got married to Yadwinder Singh in August of 1938 at the age of 16.
 
 After Independence, Patiala became the first princely state to merge with the Indian confederacy on July 15, 1948, which paved the way for the formation of Patiala and East Punjab States' Union (PEPSU). Her husband became the ceremonial governor of the new state.
 
 ‘Rajmata’ Mohinder, who was educated from Queen Mary’s College for Women in Lahore, accompanied her husband to important events and played an important role in this transition. She even remained occupied with efforts to rehabilitate refugees coming to Patiala from Pakistan following the Partition.
 
 After PEPSU was dissolved in 1956, she accompanied her husband Yadwinder Singh to various diplomatic assignments, including heading the Indian delegations to the UN general assembly in 1956, followed by UNESCO in 1957 and 1958 and then to the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO).
 
 As it was realized that the royals were being sidelined from active politics, ‘Rajmata’ Mohinder entered politics in 1964 at the behest of her husband and father, who had gained a foothold in the Congress by that time.
 
 Congress nominated her to the   in 1964 where she served till 1967. In 1967, she was elected to the fourth Lok Sabha from Patiala seat on a Congress ticket and remained a MP till 1971.
 
 Later, she accompanied Yadwinder Singh, who was sent to The Netherlands as the Indian ambassador. He passed away at   in 1974, after which she returned to Patiala.
 
 Upset with the Emergency, she joined the Janata Party and became one its general secretaries. She was again made nominated to the Rajya Sabha in 1978 where she completed her six-year term. After withdrawing from active politics, she remained engaged in the social services till health started keeping her out of physical work.
 
 Excerpts from ‘The People’s Maharaja’
 
 In his book ‘The People’s Maharaja,’ author Khushwant Singh mentions about Mohinder Kaur, “The ‘Maharaja’ and ‘Maharani’ of Patiala firmly believed that education was very important not only for development and progress, but also for moulding one’s character and imbibing values that would last a lifetime. Hence, it was only a matter of time that the royal children were weaned away from home schooling and packed off to the top-notch boarding school in the country. The ‘Maharani’, who was herself educated at the prestigious Queen Mary’s College for Women in Lahore, was conscious of the rapidly changing political and social circumstances in India. She was committed to providing her children with the best education to prepare them for upcoming challenges.”
 
 
