Ludhiana: The festival season is on and there is a mad rush of passengers. Taking advantage of the rush, many passengers were found travelling without a ticket. Therefore, the oficials of the commercial department of Ferozepur division have started a special drive to keep a tab on the passengers travelling without ticket. So far, the officials have issued around 500 challans to various offenders caught travelling without ticket on the trains and also on the station premises.

 The railway officials have generated nearly Rs 4 lakh from the offenders in terms of fines at the time of this special drive.
 
 Following the directions of the senior authorities, a team accompanied with the commercial manager Rajneesh Srivastava and carried out an extensive checking drive on Wednesday morning at Ludhiana railway station. The team caught around 75 violators travelling without tickets on trains. Unauthorized vendors were also brought to notice. Railway officials collected nearly Rs 50,000 from the violators on Wednesday.
 
 Srivastava told TOI, “A special team under the supervision of senior divisional commercial manager was formed to carry out the special checking drive across stations that came under the jurisdiction of Ferozepur division. Many passengers were taking advantage of the festival season rush were travelling without tickets on long-route, special trains run by northern railway. We wanted to tackle this problem.”
 
 Commercial inspector of city station Ajay kumar said, “Higher officials carried out special checking in the luxury trains passing through Ludhiana a few days ago and caught as many as 90 passengers travelling without tickets”. He further added, “In the days to come, ticketing officials will carry out more special drives to teach lessons to the violators”.”
 
  Station superintendent Ashok Salaria said, “Railway authorities are just doing their duty. As compared to the last year, the number of violators has increased”. We will conduct night ticket checking drive to keep a tab on people travelling without tickets on long-distance trains.”
 
 
