The much-dreaded Hyderabad summer is almost here. However, the city has reasons to smile this time around. The  , popularly called  , which had remained dry for the past few years, has seen a revival of water level in the past few months!
According to statistics shared by the Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewage Board ( ), the water level has shown a steady rise from 1753.580 ft in March 2016 to 1780.580 ft in a year’s time. And Hyderabadis have been coming out in hoardes to celebrate the sight of the swelled up lake, fringed with green meadows and hundreds of migratory birds. Why, we even came across a group of villagers, who were joined by some students and teachers from a nearby school, singing folk songs in praise of the lake, which has been quenching the thirst of Hyderabad for close to a century now, !
 “We are offering prayers, thanking God for the rise of the water level. This is really a happy sight and we are really thankful to Mother Nature for this,” said, Vijay Kumar, a teacher. “Now the authorities should take steps to sustain the water and keep it going all through the summer,” he added. 
 The authorities, meanwhile, are themselves surprised at the “sudden rise” water in the level. Admitting that they are “not so sure” as to how it happened, an official who works at the reservoir, on the condition of anonymity, said, “We don’t know why or how the water rose to the current level all of a sudden. We are yet to find a reason and substantiate it.”
 However, some say it is possibly because the authorities have been storing the water in Gandipet Lake without using it for the city, for quite sometime now. As the main source of water distribution now is the Krishna-Godavari rivers, the water in the lake is kept as a backup for emergency situations, points out Lubna Sarwath, Co-Convener of Soul (Save Our Urban Lakes). “This can possibly be the reason for the water level to increase. We aren’t draining out the water from there, now,” she adds.
 
 
 
 While the authorities want to hoard the water as backup, not everyone is in favour of it. “I remember waking up to the taste of the water of Gandipet Lake every morning. Drinking Gandipet water was like drinking water from the well in our backyard. Now since there is a revival of water level in the lake, we really hope to taste it again,” says Venketeshwar, a native from Gandipet.
 
 
 
 Making the most of this happy occurance are the city’s bird watchers, apart from the tourists, who are flocking to the lake in large numbers. Birdwatcher  , secretary,  , says, “over 1200 migratory birds have arrived at Gandipet Lake this summer from across Europe and the Himalayas. The first batch arrived by the end of November and now the numbers are gradually going up.” 
 Humayun Taher, a wildlife photographer, adds, “In the past few years when the lake was at its driest, we used to spot a species of birds called Waders, which inhabit shallow waters. This year, we couldn’t spot any of them — a sign that the lake is alive and the amount of water has gone up.”
 
 
