Mumbai: The National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) concluded here on Tuesday the hearing of a plea filed by Cyrus Mistry’s family-owned companies to waive an eligibility criteria under the Companies Act, and their petition filed last December against   on merits. The   will pass its order on the waiver plea on April 17. 

 The order will be the first of its kind and may set a precedent on issue of grant of waiver in cases of oppression of minority shareholders and mismanagement by companies. 
 
 A M Singhvi, the counsel for the Tata Group, said, “Why should NCLT assist a person who has less than the minimum requirement of 10% equity shares?” It was argued that the Mistry firms, “in the guise of a petition of oppression”, cannot be allowed to pass through Tata Sons and launch a substantial attack on other   companies, “which are not even parties to the petition and worse still, claim reliefs that are effectively in respect of such group companies”. It said seven of the 11 broad allegations do not even relate to Tata Sons. “Granting waiver would allow them to disregard the separate legal entity of each group company.”
 
 C A Sundaram, counsel for the Mistry companies, and Janak Dwarkadas, counsel for Mistry, said that the proviso in law allows the tribunal to grant such waivers for a maintainability clause. 
 
 Tatas’ counsel Singhvi said Sundaram’s interpretation of the provisions of the Companies Act were “self-serving” to enable them to argue alleged oppression caused to Mistry. But Sundaram had said, “When a petition raises issues which relate to vital characteristics of a company that is a household name, a waiver in such a case would be of utmost importance.”
 
 The petition alleged that Tata Sons indulged in acts of mismanagement and oppression of minority shareholders’ rights. Senior counsel Dwarkadas, appearing for Mistry who was not a petitioner himself, also said that once the NCLT finds that there is a “cause of action made out”, it can waive the legal requirement of a minimum 10% stake in the company as a shareholder. 
 
 The Companies Act allows the NCLT to grant waiver when it holds a shareholder’s petition as not maintainable. But
 
 Opposing the waiver plea, Tata counsel Singhvi said a proviso, contrary to Sundaram’s submission, can be applied only in “compelling and exceptional circumstances”, which are not made out here. 
 
 The tribunal bench headed by B S V Prakash Kumar had hailed Tata Sons as a “household name” and an “untiring provider”, while holding that the Mistry companies were hit by a bar against even filing their petition against Tata Sons as they lacked the necessary 10% equity shareholding in the $103-billion empire.
 
 
