GUNTUR:   wants medals in its kitty and it does not matter who wins it. The   has roped in as many as 15 players from other states to represent it at the senior national athletic meet at   (ANU) grounds on Saturday.

 According to sources, the final list of the AP team was decided only a few hours before the official launch of the event. AP officials did not budge despite pressure from the district associations to accommodate promising local players in the state team. The AP official team, app roved by the Athletic Federation of India (AFI), has raised many eyebrows. “The purpose of hosting national meets is to encourage local talent. Unfortunately , the sports admi nistrators have turned it into their image building exercise,“ said L Kranthi, head of an NGO that helps budding athletes from rural areas.
 
 The issue came to light after P V  , a hammer throw player from Guntur, approached sports special chief secretary   with a complaint after being denied berth in the state team. After Subramanyam intervened, Bharath's name was included on the list on Thursday night.
 
 Promising players are, however, tight lipped as they fear losing out on future opportunities. “The host association could seek special permission from AFI to include players who narrowly failed reaching the qualifying standard. But they have set their eyes only on medals and not promotion of sports,“ said a SAAP official on condition of anonymity .
 
 `Spent Rs 30 crore to organise meet, nothing wrong in expecting medals'
 
 AP athletic association secretary, AV Raghavendra, defended the import of athletic talent from other states, saying there was nothing wrong in wanting to see Andhra Pradesh in the medals list. The state government spent close to Rs 30 crore to organise the event and it is obvious to expect some medals, he said. “I have roped in some top athletes from Indian Railways and postal department and got them posted in AP. We took bonds from them to represent AP in lieu of the posts. All the eligible players from AP have been accommodated,“ he said. 
 
