MUMBAI: A study by the   on   has shown that the trend of getting snake bites to get a high has revived. Psychiatrists from a super-speciality public hospital who examined some   addicts said the number of people indulging in this activity is higher than what is known. Mephedrone was the other substance found to be abused increasingly.

 The study was conducted across 1,853 patients at a civic-run de-addiction centre, two hospitals and an NGO over three years—between 2014 and 2017. The doctors treating the addicts were also interviewed. 
 
 Five snake bite addicts were examined as a part of the study. The boys were in the age group of 19 to 28 years with academic levels ranging from middle school to graduation. They said that they had been using snake bite as a form of recreation. “Three of the boys were academic failures. Some were from the lower economic groups,” said a report by a psychiatrist. 
 
 “Two of the boys had anti-personality disorder while two others showed a cluster B personality (disorder characterised by overly emotional or unpredictable thinking or behaviour). Most of the boys were already under the influence of some substance when they brought a snake close to their face, pulled out their tongue and got it to bite them. The boys carried the snake around in an earthen pot. The after-effects included tingling, numbness, heaviness in the tongue that later spread to other parts of the body, prolonged sleep or amnesia. One of the boys described a grandiose feeling (unrealistic sense of their own importance), while another described the feeling nothing special,” the report said. 
 
 The study also shows that out of the 1,853 addicts, 46% (maximum) were under 30 years while some were even younger than 18. As far as education is concerned, 38% of the addicts had studied upto higher secondary level while 22% were uneducated. The study revealed that 51% of those surveyed had been addicted to some kind of substance for up to 30 years of their lives. It also showed that no class of individuals remained untouched from addiction—whether school students, collegians, working professionals or housewives. A majority of those admitted for de-addiction were multiple drug abusers of opium, cannabis, mephedrone, meth, alcohol, tobacco or inhalants. However, none of the addicts belonged to higher income groups; they were either poor or from the middle class, unemployed or from broken families. 
 
 “There is an alarming trend where school students, in uniforms, go out to purchase solvents like whitener or turpentine for abuse. Earlier, only street-dwellers used to buy these solvents for abuse. Solvents are not covered by the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act so police prefer to to turn a blind eye to the issue,” said Eldred Tellis, founder of NGO Sankalp that has been rehabilitating drug users. 
 
 Tellis recounted counselling a Class XII student who had taken to drugs after being pushed by his parents into studying economics which he wasn’t interested in since he thought his talent was in music. “To make youngsters aware and ensure that they do not take to drugs, we need to impart life skills,” added Tellis. 
 
