VADODARA: Have you ever faced trouble while travelling in train or your valuables have been stolen, but don't know where to complaint? Help is now just a touch away as the   of   (GRP) has launched a mobile application to address the issues faced by passengers when they are travelling or waiting at the railway station. 

 The app available on android phones connects the passengers directly to the railway police that offers prompt help. 
 
 "When the passengers face any problem while travelling in trains they have no idea whom to contact. Some call up on 100 but help can't reach promptly in such cases. So we decided to have a separate mobile app that can address passengers' issues promptly," said  , superintendent of police, western railways. From complaints to train-related issues and women's desk, senior citizen and police contact, this app ' ' offers many services to the passengers.
 
 "One of the best service in the app is of one-push calling option. When the passenger pushes this button, a call is made directly to the railway police control. The caller can narrate the issue he or she is facing and the control room immediately routes the complaint to nearest railway police station. They can even make a direct mobile phone call on 1512 for help," Singhal told TOI. He added that the control room can even contact the GRP men patrolling in the train from where the complaint came and ask them address the issue. 
 
 "We have real time location of the GRP men who now carry tablets for registering their attendance. The call made through the app or directly on toll-free 1512 will also patched through SMS to police inspector of the nearest railway police station. There is an option of keeping the caller's identity confidential in the app," GRP officials said. Passengers can avail of the similar service on the kiosks installed the railway stations under Vadodara division. "People can either type their complaint or post it through voice or video message on this kiosk," Singhal said. 
 
