NOIDA: Real estate company Wave Infratech has written to Noida to surrender a large chunk of the land allotted to it as part of the ambitious Rs 6,500-crore Wave   project. 

 The company, Wave Group’s real estate arm, wants to surrender 110 acres of the 152 acres allotted to it in March 2011 in sectors 32 and 25A, near Spice Mall, to build a mixed land use project.
 
 According to the  , the company has made the application under the UP government’s new Project Settlement Policy (PSP). The land was allotted to Wave at a rate of Rs 1.07 lakh per square metre. According to officials, the realtor has sent an application to return the land that is lying vacant in Sector 25A, while retaining the part of the project in the adjacent Sector 32, where it has built the City Centre mall.
 
 The first phase of the project, with an investment of about Rs 4,000 crore for the development of about 9.5 million square feet, was slated to be delivered by 2016. Currently, the land that the realtor is likely to surrender is valued at more than Rs 10,000 crore, officials said. 
 
 Speaking to TOI, Deepak Agarwal, chief executive officer (CEO), Noida Authority, confirmed the application was being processed. “An 11-member committee has been formed to peruse the application and verify details,” he said.
 
 “We had asked the company to submit a detailed project report informing the specific size of the land that they want to return, how many buyers have invested in the project and how much money they have invested, and whether there are any third party rights created in the project, etc. All these points are being verified.” Agarwal said.
 
 He said once that is done and the committee was satisfied, it would recommend the surrender to the CEO for approval. “We expect this to happen soon” Agarwal said. No senior official from Wave Infratech was available for comment, when TOI contacted the realty group.
 
 Once approved, this will be the second land deal being surrendered back to the Noida Authority.
 
 In 2009, realty major   Ltd had surrendered 100 acres of its Rs 5,006-crore land deal, the biggest ever in India, to Authority as it was unable to make the complete payment. BPTP had in 2008 bagged the 95-acre commercial plot in Sector 94, Noida.
 
  According to Noida Authority officials, more than 20 other realtors have also submitted applications under the PSP for different projects.
 
 
