CHENNAI: Almost 25 years after   Trust was split from the management of Pachaiyaappa's trust -one of the country's oldest educational trust -in view of court orders, another constituent   will also be relieved from its helm soon, as the Madras high court has given nod for its bifurcation. A division bench of Justices   and Abdul Quddhose allowed an appeal moved by trustees of Govindu Naicker trust to detach itself along with its moveable and immovable properties from the management of  's by framing a scheme.

 The court appointed former judge of the court Justice Chitra Venkataraman as the head of a five member interim management committee. The committee will also handle the task of framing a draft scheme for bifurcation.
 
 The primary allegation of Govindu Naicker was that 99% of the income generated by trust was being diverted to the coffers of Pachaiyappa's. “Funds of the trust is not used for developing the institutions established by Govindu. Only Rs 10,000 per annum is being spent for it out of approximately Rs 35 to Rs 40 lakh income being generated by the suit trust every year," the trustees said.
 
 This apart, no charities were performed by Govindu trust. Only a basic school with Classes VI to VIII was run on Pachaiyappa's property, on rent. In 1990, there were 198 students and in 1999, the strength of the school was reduced to 46 students. As of now, the school is closed and the property has been put to commercial use by Pachaiyappa's which has been assailed by the teachers of the school in the high court. The case is still pending, they added.
 
 The trustees said even religious charities as per the will of its founder Govindu Naicker were not performed by the trustees of the Pachaiyappa's, they alleged that several crores of rupees have been diverted and siphoned off by Pachaiyappa's trustees.
 
 Claiming that all such actions of Pachaiyappa's amounts to breach of trust of the Govindu Naicker Trust, the appellants wanted the court to allow bifurcation.
 
