One would imagine   to be as poised and unruffled as he is on screen. But meet him in person and he is loquacious, and talks excitedly about things close to his heart. There never was a dull moment during this half-an-hour interview. The actor was in town to perform a play, Crab, as part of the current edition of Writers’ Bloc. He forayed into Bollywood with 3 Idiots and is best known for his role in Fukrey. Known for choosing unusual scripts, Ali also starred in  . His next outing in Hollywood is  , directed by  , which also stars  . Excerpts from the interview...
 
 
 
 Getting the part in itself was quite a process. There was a lot of grilling. I went on tape, and then I met the director and producer. I flew to London, followed by a few more reading sessions. We also shot a few scenes in a studio and I was still unsure whether I was going to get the part. At one point, I was like, ‘ I better get the part after all this running around.’ But then it finally happened. Working with Judi has been amazing. She is a gem of a person. She is everything an actor should be. I remember, there was this one scene; she was made to walk a mile by the makers so that they could give me cues. This is unheard off. We are so used to working in India, but they are so professional. They are ethically very strong. I also took a good friendship back home — I have tried and convinced her to come to India during the release. She likes India a lot, too.
 
 
 
 The director of the film told all of us, ‘There is going to be a shitstorm when the movie releases’ — one of the reasons why they have been quite hush-hush about the film. We all think Queen Victoria’s chapter ends with John Brown, but there was more, apparently; the last 14 years — till her death. There is this one man she spoke to on her death bed, an Indian Muslim servant who stayed with her till she died. I play his role. The scary part was to do justice to the role because it is, after all, a biography. It is somebody else’s life and you don’t want to mess around with that. I also had to get the look right, but I have a great team that has worked on my makeup.
 
 
 
 Certainly not. Auroville is where I have done the only piece of learning of the craft. Otherwise, I have never studied acting — never even had a chance to. My gurus were Veenapani Chawla and Vinay. Even while shooting for Victoria..., I called Vinay and asked him to sit with me on Facetime so that he could guide me with the script. Chennai has been my connecting point. Unfortunately, I have never got a chance to explore Chennai. I think we had last come here for the promotion of Bobby Jasoos, but then, it was mostly interviews and then we were back at the airport.
 
 
 
 I have never expected anything in my life. It has been one step at a time. It almost mirrored itself, like déjà vu. This is exactly how I started in Bollywood. Entered with a cameo, and then started getting more roles. This is what is happening in Hollywood as well. When your first movie as a lead bombs and falls flat, then you wake up saying, ‘Oh, no!’ It was as if someone just took me on a plane and dropped me without a parachute. You just have some sort of wood to make a ladder out of it and climb. I think I am happy and have grown over time. There is still a long way to go and it has been an interesting journey. I have got to choose my scripts — commercial, art, Hollywood, etc, with some theatre and web series, here and there.
 
 
 
 Last six months have been crazy. In India, I am always multi-tasking — web series, plays, movies, etc. But then Victoria And Abdul happened and it drained me a lot. I spent two months researching. One month on just handwriting and voices. We shot for three months continuously. That became more like a draining session for me than multi tasking for films here. Once I was back, I had to immediately start with Fukrey 2. I was so blank and I couldn’t manage. And I used to be the guy who used to make fun of actors who said, “I am stuck in a character.” It happened to me, too. I would certainly like to do more films there, but this is home. There are a few of us who are trying to bridge the gap. I am secure right now and things are looking interesting, but I need to find a way to balance Hollywood and Bollywood. Having said that, this is where the real masala is. This is my dialect. I can do several movies outside, but this is where I will come back to.
 
 
 
 Ya, most of my movies have never been solo-driven scripts. Fukrey was a multi-starrer. Now, I think it is time to find the right positioning. Earlier, I wasn’t choosing and was looking at good production houses, and then I wouldn’t know the fate of it. Unfortunately, you have to know the fate of it and work things back.
 
 
 
 I have Fukrey 2 that will have a lot of action right from the beginning. It is the mirror version of the first film and everything has literally flipped. You know the characters so you don’t need the buildup. There is just too much confusion, twists and turns. Then there is For Here or To Go? a movie about immigration. I also have Tadka with Taapsee Pannu and Nana Patekar that I am shooting for currently.
 
 
