PUNE: A sugarcane farm at   in Junnar taluka of the district was the site of a rare family reunion, when a mother leopard found her two stranded cubs and carried them away to safety.

  Rescuers and forest officials have, for the first time, documented such an event on video using camera traps.
 
 On February 2, workers were harvesting the sugarcane yield at Satish Pardeshi’s farm. Around 4pm, they heard the cries of the cubs, a male and a female, and found them in the field. Fearing that the mother leopard might be nearby and could attack them, the workers panicked and immediately contacted the forest department.
 
 Forest department official   had reached spot and informed Wildlife SOS veterinarian   working at   in Junnar. “Luckily, when we reached, none of the workers had handled the cubs. Both were about 21 days old, and we checked them for any injuries, wounds or parasites. They turned out healthy, so we decided to reunite them with the mother,” Deshmukh told TOI.
 
 It could be tricky, he said. “We have conducted nearly 60 reunions of leopard cubs with their families since 2009. Being from the cat family, the mother leopard will always come back to find her young at the spot where she may have left them to go hunting. However, it is also important to ensure that minimal human interaction takes place with the cubs. Hence, we use sterilised gloves to handle the cubs and ensured only one person should be around them,” he explained, adding that if the mother leopard suspects human interference, she may get aggressive.
 
 Around 7pm, the cubs were placed back at the same spot where they were found, and kept in a safe box to ensure they stayed put. The rescuers had decided to document the reunion. They placed two remote-controlled camera traps to capture the images and footage and monitored from a distance.
 
 “Around two and half hours later, the mother emerged from the forest at 9.30pm. The images indicate how much she missed them,” Deshmukh said. The mother cautiously examined her cubs first. Satisfied, she was happy to see them and carried them off by the scruff of their necks.
 
 Sightings Common 
 
 The end of winter being the birthing season for leopards, it is common to find cubs. The mother leopard which nurses, feeds and teaches survival to the young ones, leaves them in the safety of dens or tall sugarcane plantations, while she goes to hunt. However, since this also the harvesting season for the crop, cubs are often found alone by farmers. “It is not uncommon to spot leopards in this area, as there are several sugarcane fields that provide a safe cover for these wild cats. But this also gives rise to conflict situations when farmers harvest sugarcane,” Gaikwad said.
 
