At her birth, the Mumbai Assassins boxer had little chance to survive.

 She is a born fighter. From being an under-weight spring, prematurely born   threw enough punches as a two-day-old to ward off whatever the doctors said about her future health.
 
 No father would encourage his daughter to make a living off fighting, especially if she had spent couple of days in the incubator under intensive care.
 
 For Sadashiv, Manjit had arrived after his two sons. But then, he never treated her as a daughter. "I was given the same space and privileges that my brothers received. If they learned driving, I too was asked to learn," said Manjit, who takes the ring for Mumbai Assassins against Maratha Yodhas in the week-old Super   League.
 
 "It's not going to be easy for me. Although I started my career as a boxer, I had turned a Mixed Martial Arts fighter for a reality television," she said on phone from Delhi on the eve of her teams fight.
 
 Reaching this far has been an easy journey. She had all the support from father Sadashiv, an IIT engineer, but she felt alone in the ring.
 
 
 
 
 "The last time he saw me take the beating in the ring, he almost had a heart attack," the flyweight boxer said of her father. She explained his worry, "I was less than a kilogram when I was born. My chances for survival were very bleak. My mother took great care of me and turned me into a fighter that I am today.
 
 "When I was growing up I'd fight back with boys if they told me anything. I also enjoyed playing with boys. I always told myself, if I they can do it, why can't I?" she said.
 
 After failing to go for the nationals for two years and being denied victory in the third, Manjit decided to switch to MMA.
 
 "During my first MMA fight, I had no clue how it was in a real match. I had trained very hard for it. But once inside the ring, it was totally different. I was given a good beating and was injured seriously. While in the ring, I saw my father nervously watching me fight.
 
 "I was determined to fight till the end. At one point I was in the chokehold of my opponent, but refused to tap for about 20 seconds. This was enough to make my father go restless. After the bout he told me he nearly had a heart attack. It was after that fight he said he didn't have the courage to see me fight. He'd accompany me to the venues of the fight but never witness it himself," she added,
 
 If Manjit's father cannot watch her live at the venue, her mother doesn't want to watch her fight at all. "When I am in the ring, my mother sits down before god praying for me till the fight is over."
 
 Manjit believes Super Boxing League is best thing to happen to boxers. "It's good to have women in boxing. We have seen kabaddi, hockey, cricket, they all have men-oriented leagues, but it's good that women are getting an opportunity in boxing," the Mumbai Assassins' only woman boxer told Mirror.
 
 Coming from MMA background, Manjit is worried about restrictions in boxing. "While training I did start using my legs too in boxing. In MMA I was known as superwoman because I would jump in the air to attack my opponent.
 
 But since I came back to boxing after five years of MMA, I did become a superwoman sometimes while training. I am a little worried not to repeat that during my bout," the boxer confessed.
 
 
 
 
 Featherweight (57 kgs): Asif Asad Khan
 
 Welterweight (66kgs): Pawan Goyat
 
 Middleweight (72kgs): Gurwinder Singh
 
 Cruiserweight (77kgs): Musa Ntege
 
 Super heavy (90+): Ram Singh
 
 Female Fly (52kgs): Manjit Kolekar
 
