NAGPUR: Investigating the death of Manish Lonare, a man in his mid-thirties, may be the last on the priority list of the police department as he was known to be an addict with   However, local residents expressed fear of many more such untoward incidents in coming days if illegal liquor consumption is not curbed in the area.

 There was a shock wave among the residents of Jaripatka market after Lonare’s decomposed body was found in an abandoned building, which had remain unoccupied for several years. Empty water bottles too were found beside him.
 
 Lonare, after leaving home on May 15, did not return. He was unmarried and mostly stayed outside. Police have come to know that his only source of income was by working as a labourer. A case of accidental death has been registered at the Jaripatka police station.
 
 The building, in which the body was found, is known to be owned by one Prakash Ramlikhaini. The neighbours claimed that it had turned into a hub of illegal activities. The cracks, which have turned into a makeshift passage with passing time, are now learnt to be used by vagabonds and anti-social elements as a temporary shelter for their illegal activities.
 
 The problem has aggravated due to the ignorance of Jaripatka police, who have turned a blind eye to illegal consumption of liquor in and around the vegetable market after 8 pm which continued beyond midnight.
 
 Kishan Balani, who claimed to have taken up the issue with both civic and police authorities, said the worst may be yet to come. “The streetlights would also remain off earlier. But we have ensured that these are functional now. The entire market area is teeming with anti-social elements by late evening. Police have taken action but no efforts of the authorities have lasted long,” he said.
 
 The spot where the body was found is in the vicinity of an upcoming mall. Residents also said that the entire stretch between Angulimal chowk to   is full of illegal vendors, which turns into a ‘temporary bar’ after evening making it impossible for women and girls to cross.
 
 “The grocery shops supply   and   to  . The lanes and bylanes around the mall too are full of liquor addicts. There would be a bigger crime any time,” said Vinay Khandare.
 
 Senior PI CM Bahadure of the Jaripatka police station said they would increase patrolling in the locality. “We would try to deploy a police van in the area,” he said. He, however, ruled out any foul play in the incident.
 
 
