CHENNAI: Mahathi* is seven and has resolved to unearth every mystery of nature that her single-room home at a city slum throws up. She looks up at the night sky and demands why the clouds are parting at such great speed. Her curiosity is resolute and insatiable, and it takes on an uncanny sombreness when she asks her akka – activist Sherin Bosko – when the boys who raped her would go to jail.

 "I got them arrested, but 20 days later they were out on bail," says Bosko, who, since 2012, has been fighting to ensure conviction in cases of child  .
 
 Mahathi was a little over five when she was raped by three teenagers regularly for a year at the nearby balavadi that she went to. Bilious and shaky from the assault, she failed to communicate the involvement of two of her assailants in her initial statements. Months later, when she was shown photos, she identified them, and for weeks thereafter, ran a high fever and wet her bed.
 
 "It’s in the knowledge that the boys who turned their lives upside down are free, walking past their home every day and possibly dropping by to harass them which unsettles the girls. And this is enough for the family to conclude that the justice system excludes people like them. When they’re offered a settlement, they take it and withdraw the case," says Bosko.
 
 As of 2014, the   has recognised 2,173 slums in Chennai, with a population of 11,55,025 people whose living conditions create fertile environments for the abuse of children. Huddled up in 100sqft rooms, families cook and sleep, and with shared or open toilets at a distance from the house – there’s always an impending threat for the girl child from the men around. Added to this is the socio-cultural setting that renders its men inviolable.
 
 Last year, Bosko had to rush to   when she received a call from about a pregnant 15-year-old girl. Mary*, a scrawny teenager from the Tondiarpet slum, was found to have been impregnated by her stepfather. 
 
 "After Mary’s father left them, her mother –in her twenties - had remarried, and the stepfather would sexually assault the child. Despite several attempts by Mary to alert her mother, the latter had been dismissive," says Bosko. "When the mothers remarry, they tend to assume that their daughters level accusations against the new man, as they dislike him."
 
 Bosko knows that the negligible reporting of child sexual abuse cases from the city slums isn’t anything to go by. For the setting is ripe for crimes against girl children, and goes hand-in-hand with the tradition of child marriages – both practices so rampant, they perpetuate each other.
 
 "This is characteristic of every such case. The girl is married off by 14, becomes a mother by 15 or 16, and by the time her child hits teenage, she’s barely 30," says Bosko.
 
 According to  , out of 194 crimes recorded in Chennai against children in 2015, 137 were reported under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences ( ) Act. Out of these, 46 were booked under Section 6 of the Act, which amounts to aggravated penetrative sexual assault by a person in authority. And this includes incest crimes.
 
 Often, the tradition of child marriages is also community-driven, as is the case with the begging community in the slums of Gandhi Nagar near Perambur.
 
 Meenakshi*, 16, is fondly remembered by the activist as a chirpy kid selling colouring books to beachgoers on weekends. Over the many weekends she stayed at the beach, she fell in love with Mohan*, one of the horse riders there. With little parental supervision, she was pregnant with his child by the time she was 15, and had to be hurriedly wedded to him. She now lives with her newborn, husband and mother-in-law in the slum by a fishing village.
 
 Bosko alleges an entire slum in Perambur’s ICF Colony to be replete with stories of minor girls married to older men. And yet, it’s bizarre that according to Crime Review Tamil Nadu’s data, Chennai has recorded zero crimes under the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act in 2015.
 
 But Bosko is quick to add that although punishable under the law, implicating these families would be an imprudent approach to a significantly larger problem. "The girl child in a family bears overwhelming moral value and the higher the scope of risk for her, the sooner the parents want to get her married," she says.
 
 As these marriages are close-knit familial affairs, they barely come out. Even legally, there are several dodges that need to be addressed, says advocate V Kannadasan. 
 
 "The marriageable age under the Hindu Marriage Act is 18 and 21 for girls and the boys respectively. But there are provisions, such as Factum Valet, under the same Act, that deem underage marriages valid," he says.
 
 Similarly, though POCSO is an excellent law, its poor implementation does more to protect the perpetrator than the victim, say activists. "The biggest loophole is the shocking lack of awareness and command among officials over the laws they should know like the back of their hand," says Bosko.
 
 In one instance, when a child from the Otteri slum was sexually abused by her neighbour, the perpetrator was set free after erroneous sections of the POCSO Act were slapped on him.
 
 "In such cases, the burden of proof lies with the accused, and not with the prosecutor," says Kannadasan. And that leaves scope for corruption among the public prosecutors, who opt for heavy settlements, get a share and close the case," says Kannadasan.
 
 But POCSO itself has brought about a major change in the legal system, says V Balakrishnan, DCP, Mylapore, who has been actively conducting awareness programmes against child sexual abuse for teachers and children. "The defence, for instance, cannot put questions directly to the child; they can only do it through a magistrate. Also, in most stations, women police in civil clothes are made to take statements from the child," he says.
 
 (*names changed)
 
