BENGALURU: Contrary to JD(S) national president   dropping hints that five members from his family are set to contest the assembly polls in 2018, state unit president   on Monday said only two will be in the fray.

 Kumaraswamy told TOI that only his brother   and he would be contesting the polls. “I have been telling the media over the past nine months that only two people from our family will be in the fray. I'm trying to get rid of the image of   (fathersons') party and dynasty politics,'' he added.
 
 This comes two days after Gowda hinted at both Anitha Kumaraswamy and Bhavani Revanna trying their luck at the hustings. Besides, he had indicated that with his failing health, grandson Prajwal Revanna would be asked to contest the  .
 
 Kumaraswamy said his wife Anitha is not contemplating re-entering politics.“There's pressure from a few local leaders in Channapatna to give the party ticket to her, but neither she nor me is keen. There's a feeling that if any local party worker is given a ticket from the constituency, there will be a rise in factionalism,“ he added.
 
 On the prospects of Bhavani's candidature, Kumaraswamy said it is not likely that she will get a ticket.
 
 According to sources, the JD(S) is looking to strengthen the caste combination in Hassan district and is set to project a Lingayat candidate from Belur which Bhavani was reportedly eyeing. “If party tickets are given to only Vokkaliga candidates in the entire district, the image of JD(S) will remain as a Vokkaliga party,“ said a senior leader.
 
 
 
 
 On the recent controversy over his nephew Prajwal Revanna's remarks of JD(S) espousing the “suitcase politics“ culture, Kumaraswamy said the “boy“ has been propped up by Congress workers in Hunsur to revolt against the family .
 
 “His initial demand was to contest from Belur, but even Gowda was not in favour of it. He later decided to make Hunsur his first choice, which is where Congress local workers have tried to pit Prajwal against the family and the party . He is not likely to get a ticket in this elections from either Hunsur or Belur,“ Kumaraswamy said.
 
 
 
 
 H D Kumaraswamy, who was in the direct line of fire with Prajwal Revanna accusing the party of practising “suitcase politics“, took an indirect dig at his former colleagues B Z Zameer Ahmad Khan (Chamarajpet) and H C Balakrishna (Magadi).“Perhaps, when Prajwal was referring to suitcase politics, it was being directed towards the two frontbench MLAs of ours who are not with the JD(S) anymore. May be, Prajwal himself can clarify further,“ he said.
 
