Mumbai: Come Sunday, Oscar will be honoured with a lifetime achievement award by the students of a college in Parel. Along with him will be other heroes, Shotgun, Max, Sandy and Naughty, who will also be felicitated for securing the city for years.

 Wondering who they are? They are   who dedicated their whole life trying to keep people safe by   and suspicious objects. Oscar, who retired recently after serving with GRP for eight years, was deployed during the 26/11 terror attacks to check the stations for any explosives. During his service, Oscar had also won a gold medal at an all-India police dogs’ competition. 
 
 The Student Council of Bombay Veterinary College will honour these retired police dogs during their annual college festival, Spandan. “We have been calling several handlers for the last one month to make a list. Max, Oscar and Sandy have been with the GRP for seven to eight years. In the past, we have felicitated the serving ‘bravehearts’. This year, we wanted to recognize those who have retired from service,” said Sanat Bhadsavle, a fourth-year student.
 
 While these dogs are up for adoption after retirement, many handlers continue to keep them. For instance, Shotgun, a German Shepherd, who was employed with the bomb detection and disposal quad (BDDS) in city police, is now adopted by a civilian, Uttara Das. “He used to be deployed after emergency calls pertaining to suspicious items,” said Pooja Marwaha, another student. Naughty, an 11-year-old who had to face early retirement due to osteoarthritis, will also be honoured.
 
 Lifetime achievement awards is a new feature added this year in Spandan, along with other awards for serving dogs. Animal adoptathon and dog blood donation camp are the other events during the three-day festival starting on April 9. Four therapy dogs will also be felicitated at the event. Angel, another dog, owned by a differently-abled person, will also demonstrate how he assists his owner in his daily chores, said Anouska Pereira, another final-year student.
 
 This year BVC has 25 puppies and 15 kittens up for adoption. 
 
 
