MUMBAI: The heatwave that most parts of the state are experiencing has affected the quality of   and several farmers are at a risk of losing export orders and fear a dip in prices.

 The ideal temperature for mangoes is between 32 degrees Celsius and 34 degrees Celsius, however, in most parts of the state, the mercury rose to about 38-40 degrees Celsius towards end of March. Though temperatures dipped a bit last week, they continued to be on the higher side.
 
 In Marathwada, Pune, Sangli and Konkan, which is famous for alphonso mangoes, there have been no signs of the heatwave abating. Konkan, which is the largest producer of mangoes in the state, has been sizzling at 38 degrees Celsius.
 
 According to agriculture experts, mangoes start falling off trees sue to high temperatures and also develop spots on skin. “The worst of them is a disorder, which is peculiar to alphonso mangoes, called spongy tissue. It is a ripening disorder, which dries out the mango from inside, leaving a white dry mass. The mango looks perfectly ripe from outside but it is damaged from inside,” a farmer said. 
 
 “Bigger mangoes have higher chances of developing the disorder, which means, if a farmer has had a good crop and the temperatures rise, his/her fruit is at risk the most. This is happening in Konkan tight now,” said  , a mango farmer from Devgad in   district, the heart of alphonso production.
 
  is one of the largest growers of mangoes in the country and its alphonso mangoes are famous worldwide. Maharashtra’s share is nearly 25% of the country’s total mango export.
 
 At present, the wholesale rate of alphonso mangoes is anywhere between Rs 2,500-3,000 per crate of four dozens. “Last week’s temperature rise has got farmers who still have fruits on trees to worry. If temperatures continue to remain high, the quality will be affected and it will definitely have an impact on export orders. Prices in local markets too will dip,” said an exporter from Ratnagiri.
 
 “Mangoes are fragile, temperature rise causes changes in its composition. Cases of mangoes falling off due to heat are being reported on a largescale in Konkan this year. Second week of April is the plucking time and that’s when the real damage will be understood,” said  , advisor of Devgad Taluka Amba Utpadak Sahakari Sanstha Limited.
 
 Local varieties of mangoes are also grown in areas of Marathwada and  , which too are being affected, said another farmer. 
 
 On an average, Maharashtra cultivates mangoes in 4.3 lakh hectares. Last year, the state produced 6.3 lakh tonnes of mangoes with 1.5 tonnes/hectares productivity, which is much lower than the national average of 5.9 tonnes/hectares
 
