PUNE: The stage at a screen at City Pride Kothrud was transformed into a magical world with swirls of colour and foot-tapping notes of Indo-Spanish fusion music. 

 Spanish artist Monica swirled to the fusion of instrumental music by Carlos Blanco on guitar and Subrata De on sitar. The powerful performance marked the celebration of 60 years of Indo-Spanish relationship as well as set the pace for the inauguration of the 15th edition of Pune International Film Festival on Thursday.
 
 The eight-day festival will see 90 regional and international films being showcased, in both competing and non-competing categories, at 13 screens across the city. The PIFF Bazaar, where discussions and related activities on films are to be held, will be called   Pavilion while the stage has been christened   Rangmanch as a tribute to the legendary actor, who passed away a week ago.
 
 While Aparna Sen and Seema Deo were awarded for their outstanding contribution to  , Ustad Zakir Hussain was awarded the Sachin Dev Burman International Award for Creative Music and Sound at the inaugural function. Sen dedicated her award to late actor Om Puri. Deo dedicated her award to her guru Raja Paranjape.
 
 “The response from the international film fraternity has been overwhelming. We received 1,118 entries of which we selected 14 films. This time we received 55 entries in the Marathi competing section and shortlisted seven. At the same time, seven Marathi films will be showcased in the non-competing category. For films made by students, we have two categories namely live-action and animation, which will be showcased on Saturday and Sunday,” said Jabbar Patel.
 
 Further, Patel said that this year Argentina and Vietnam are the focus countries at the festival.
 
 Jury members director, screenplay writer, actress Aparna Sen, Polish film and theatre actor Jerzy Stuhr, renowned independent director from Europe Goran Paskaljevic, Chilean-French composer Jorge Arriagada, playwright, theatre director, journalist Gowry Ramnarayan, writer and director from Iran Narges Abyar, Sri Lankan director Bennett Rathnayake, and Swedish cinematographer Jens Fischer were also felicitated at the event.
 
 This year, PIFF is being held between January 12 and 19 at 13 screens spread across eight venues located in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad. The venues include City Pride Kothrud, City Pride Satara Road, City Pride R-Deccan, Mangala Multiplex, Inox Bund Garden Road, National Films Archives of India (NFAI) and Carnival Cinemas Chinchwad. A special session by   and Anil Zankar, titled Knowing Om Puri — Actor, Human Being and Legend, will also be scheduled at the PIFF bazaar on January 17 at 3pm. 
 
 Additionally, the bazaar will host programs like Madhyantar, poetry workshops, seminars, entertainment activities and so on, at the Dadasaheb Phalke Pavilion in Kothrud.
 
 The inauguration was followed by a screening of Thank You For Bombing, a film from Austria directed by Barbara Eder.
 
