NEW DELHI: Three   were reported in the capital in the last 24 hours. The accused in one of the cases is, however, still at large. 

 The first incident was reported from northeast Delhi’s   on Saturday night, where a youth strangled his mother’s live-in partner at their house because his friends used to tease him about it. 
 
 The victim was identified as Madan Mohan (61). Cops said that he was a government servant and after his wife’s death, had started living with his maid, whose husband had died in an accident. Her son, the accused, lived with them, but rarely came home as he did not approve of his mother’s decision to live with Mohan. 
 
 The youth hatched a plan with one of his friends and, upon finding the man alone at home, killed him. 
 
 A local resident, however, noticed them fleeing and informed the cops. “A case of murder was registered and the youth, later identified as Prem Nath (20), was arrested. His minor friend was apprehended as well,” said Ajit Kumar Singla, DCP (northeast). 
 
 In the second incident, a 30-year-old man was stabbed in northwest Delhi’s   by a man whom he had previously attacked. Police described the case as revenge killing and are trying to nab the accused.
 
 The matter came to the fore when a passerby informed them about the victim, Bijender (22), lying in a pool of blood with injury marks on his chest and abdomen. A PCR team took the man to a nearby hospital where he was declared brought dead.
 
 A team was formed to investigate the matter and after initial questioning, cops came to know that the victim had earlier attacked the accused. In order to avenge the same, he attacked Bijender when he was heading back home. 
 
 Police said that the victim was a businessman and had been planning to shift to Bihar to live with his family there. “A case has been registered and we are investigating the matter,” said Milind Dumbere, DCP (northwest). 
 
 The third incident was reported outside the  , where a man was allegedly thrashed to death by a couple of men in a drunken brawl.
 
 Police said that the victim was a vagabond. The incident was reported late on Saturday and two men were arrested for the crime. 
 
