NEW DELHI: Resolute in its opposition to China’s ‘One Belt One Road’, India will be a significant absentee at the   conference which opens in Beijing on Sunday.

 India will stand out with its resolute opposition to China’s OBOR by being the significant absentee at the now famous Belt&Road forum which opens in Beijing on Sunday. Despite the Chinese foreign minister Wang Yi’s public assertion and virtual threats by its diplomats to “isolate” India, the Modi government has refused to budge, with only a handful of scholars attending the forum.
 
 If India had actually agreed to be present, India believes it would have weakened its own case on sovereignty on   and POK, because it would be tantamount to accepting the Chinese and Pakistani position of POK/Gilgit-Baltistan being “northern Pakistan”. More important, it would fly in the face of India’s sustained protests against China-Pakistan collaboration on POK since at least 1963.
 
 As recently as April 2017, India lodged a strong protest when a vocational university in Suzhou signed an agreement with Gilgit-Baltistan to set up a   Centre. Just weeks earlier, in March, India protested when China launched a website called 
  (‘yidaiyilu’ is OBOR in Chinese) where Gilgit-Baltistan was shown as part of Pakistan, a position that even Pakistan’s constitution does not make. (The website was subsequently taken down). India also protested when the “chief minister” of Gilgit-Baltistan visited Xinjiang, or when Chinese media reported joint patrols in POK.
 
 The Chinese ambassador   addressing a think tank in Delhi last week said, “China and India had successful experience of delinking sovereignty disputes with bilateral relations before. In history, we have had close cooperation along the Silk Road. Why shouldn’t we support this kind of cooperation today?” The Chinese suggestion by diplomats and scholars is the same: India did not object when the Karakoram Highway was built, or when other China-Pakistan projects have happened especially in POK. Why is India being difficult now?
 
 India has actually been protesting diplomatically against China-Pakistan cooperation since 1961, although India has not yet made its opposition military. The first Indian demarche was served to the then vice foreign minister Geng Biao in July, 1961, where India’s ambassador to China G. Parthasarathi, on his last day said sharply, “Pakistan has no borders with China .. We know about your dispatching sentinels to border areas, but if it goes beyond that, if you state that you are willing to consider negotiating borders with Pakistan, there will be sharp reaction on India’s part. Under those circumstances, India cannot be blamed for the consequences that occur.”
 
 In 1969, India hotly protested Chinese assistance to Pakistan to build the Karakoram Highway in a demarche issued on June 25: “Chinese assistance to Pakistan to construct highways in the portion of Indian territory under the illegal occupation of Pakistan is a fresh step taken by the People’s Republic of China to further aggravate Sino-Indian relations. The consequences of such Chinese actions, which can only serve to bring about further worsening in India-China relations, are to be borne entirely by the government of the Peoples Republic of China.”
 
 In 1983, India once again protested when the Khunjerab Pass was opened to civilian traffic, saying neither China nor Pakistan had any locus standi on this part of India. These protests continued when the Pass was opened to international tourists in 1986 and in 1993 when Pakistan and Xinjiang signed an MOU on border trade. Former foreign minister Pranab Mukherjee gave an earful to   in September 2008 about Musharraf’s pact with China on building road and communication in POK, railway line across the Khunjerab Pass, as well as in 2010 when reports surfaced about China sending 11,000 troops to Gilgit-Baltistan.
 
 After 2014, Sushma Swaraj, PM Narendra Modi and NSA Ajit Doval have all raised objections to Chinese activities in POK, specifically asking China to respect a “one-India” policy. After 2013, India has included CPEC as central to its objections to China.
 
 Two aspects stand out in sharp relief, first, that India has not stopped protesting, and second, that China has not paid the slightest heed to India’s objections. China’s approach in India’s neighborhood is exactly the same as it is in the   – ignore protests and continue to change the ground reality bit by bit. India should be criticized for not taking its objections beyond diplomatic demarches. But for India to attend the Belt & Road forum would be impossible in the circumstances.
 
 
 
 
 
 1961, July 19: "In India’s view Pakistan has no borders with China; to be frank, India thinks Pakistan and China cannot manage the borders of a third country. … If China negotiates borders with Pakistan, it means that not only does China not recognize the fact that Kashmir has become part of India, it has, on the contrary, given recognition to Pakistan’s illegal occupation of Kashmir. This would provoke an intense reaction from India."
 
 1963, March 2: "India reiterates deep concern at Chinese government’s persistence in continuing their arbitrary and illegal efforts to “locate and align the boundary” between China and areas of Kashmir which have been illegally occupied by Pakistan."
 
 1963, July 15: "… illegal arrangement involving Indian territory between parties that have no legal or constitutional locus standi is invalid and unacceptable…"
 
 1963, September 30: "… fixing of boundary markers on Indian territory by Pakistan and China is a violation of international law and practice … This collusive aggressive effort … will never be accepted by India."
 
 1965, March 10: "Boundary agreement entered into between China and Pakistan in May 1963 is altogether illegal and invalid."
 
 1965, April 7: "Strongly protest against the signing of so-called boundary protocol (setting up boundary pillars on Indian territory)"
 
 1968, April 19: Protested against agreement between China and Pakistan on an overland trade route from Xinjiang to Gilgit
 
 1969, June 25: Protested against Chinese assistance to Pakistan to construct the Karakoram Highway “will only serve to bring about further worsening in India-China relations”
 
 1982, August 25: Protest against Pak-China protocol on the “opening of the Khunjerab Pass". "… neither the construction of the highway nor the collaboration between China and Pakistan in relations to India’s state of Jammu and Kashmir has any legal basis."
 
 1983, May 21: "latest action of China and Pakistan to throw open the so-called Karakoram Highway to civilian traffic is another violation of Indian sovereignty… Neither China nor Pakistan has any locus standi on this part of India."
 
 2008, September 8: India protested against construction of railway line from Havelian to Khunjerab Pass which would traverse PoK.
 
 2009, July 8: India protested against China’s Xinjiang Beixin Construction Engineering Co and China Intl Water & Electricity Corporation in projects in POK.
 
 2010, April 5-8: Foreign minister S.M. Krishna protested against Chinese activities in POK
 
 2010, August 29: India objected to Chinese official describing Gilgit-Baltistan as "northern Pakistan."
 
 2014, June 8: Sushma Swaraj told Wang Yi India would ask China to respect a "one-India" policy
 
 2017, March: India protested against the visit of chief minister of Gilgit-Baltistan to Xinjiang, as well as reports of joint patrols of border areas by Pakistan and China
 
 2017, April: India protested against a pact between Gilgit and Suzhou university to set up a CPEC Cultural Centre
 
 
