SURAT: One more person, who had consumed spurious liquor mixed with methanol, died here on Wednesday night, taking the toll in the hooch tragedy that unfolded in Surat on January 15 to five.

 Police said  , a resident of Chowk Bazaar, who had consumed spurious liquor two days ago died during treatment in a hospital here.   (FSL) confirmed after blood tests of Barot that he had consumed liquor mixed with heavy dose of methanol.
 
 The four who had died earlier were identified as Pradip Haresh Vaid, Kirtisinh Sardarsinh Waghela, Prakash Rathod and  .
 
 “No more fresh cases were reported on Thursday.A total of five people have died after consuming spurious liquor mixed with methanol. We are monitoring a patient identified as Jayesh who was brought to hospital on Wednesday and his condition is critical.The deaths that took place other than these are not due to spurious liquor,“ police commissioner Satish Sharma said.
 
 Sharma added, “We are taking all precautions with suspected cases coming to   and SMIMER. An emergency ward has been opened at both the hospitals for people who had consumed liquor in the last five days.“ Meanwhile, city police are carrying out raids on the slum settlements alongside the railway tracks, where supply of liquor goes on unabated. Police on Thursday raided a bootlegger selling country liquor alongside the railway tracks at Udhana. They seized around 150 litre of country liquor and arrested the bootlegger. The sample of the liquor has been sent to FSL for testing to find out if it has methanol.
 
 Sharma said liquor smuggling is rampant in eight trains that run between Mumbai and Ahmedabad. At least 120 policemen will travel daily from Valsad and Vapi to Surat to keep track on smuggling activity. Additionally, motorcycle patrolling alongside railway tracks will begin to spot bootleggers throwing liquor parcels from moving trains.
 
 “Since railways is not under our jurisdiction, the bootleggers take benefit of this. But, we want to plug this loophole soon. The liquor is brought from other areas by trains and the parcels are dumped on the tracks. Our motorcycle patrols will go after the bootleggers carrying the parcels in the city limits and arrest them,“ Sharma said.
 
 “As far as investigation is concerned, we hope to crack the hooch case soon.We have picked up a few bootleggers who had sold the liquor mixed with methanol. Interrogation is going on to find out from where they brought the liquor, who sold to them, how the racket is running and how many people are involved in it. Meanwhile, raids are still continuing in different parts of the city,“ Sharma added.
 
