MUMBAI: As one saw   warm up before their Qualifier 1 against Rising Pune Supergiant at the Wankhede on Tuesday, one of the stalwarts in their team was conspicuous by his absence.  .

 He was dropped for the first match of the tournament, ironically against RPS in Pune, a decision which   coach Mahela Jayawardene described as tactical and a move, which insiders say, hurt the offie very much. He was picked for the next 11 games though and the man with 400-plus Test wickets seemed to have rediscovered his bowling form. He looked to be bowling slower through the air and his economy rate, despite picking up just eight wickets, was a highly acceptable 6.48.
 
 Harbhajan, it may be noted, is the third highest wicket-taker in the history of the league, with 127 scalps in 136 matches and has an outstanding economy rate of 6.95. For a spinner, who has often bowled in the powerplays, it is nothing short of outstanding.
 
 However, in his last match played at the Wankhede against  , he went for 45 runs in three overs and   hit him for three sixes in an over. But that pitch was a like a billiards table and the Turbanator even tweeted his displeasure saying that soon bowlers will be reduced to bowling machines if there are more wickets like the Wankhede.
 
 
  
 MI replaced   with leggie   on Tuesday and the thinking behind it could be that RPS don't have any left-handers in their top six. But Harbhajan is an equally competent bowler to right-handers and in fact bowls better to them because his doosra, which he has used liberally this season, goes away from the right-hander. After MI's last loss to RPS on April 24, Harbhajan spoke to the media and said that he does not see himself being involved with any other franchise in the   even after he is done with playing.
 
 Such loyalty is rare in franchise-based cricket where players eye moolah and game time. It would be a pity if Harbhajan is dropped for his performance against Kings XI where all the bowlers were carted around. But then in the unforgiving and result-oriented world of franchise cricket, reputation counts for little.
 
