A massive power cut left around 76 flat owners at a Dhanori housing society helpless for 40 hours between Wednes day and Friday. Despite several at tempts to lodge a complaint with the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL), residents of 7th Heaven found themselves without power or help for almost two days.   officials started repair work only on Thursday afternoon. Residents were later informed that some underground cables had snapped, leading to the power shortage.

 “I am living on the 10th floor, and it is very difficult for me to come down the stairs. The issue started on Wednesday and it was only our society that was without power. We have some backup, but it was only for a few hours. We tried to start the generator, but its capacity is only 50 litres, so we saved it to get water to the tank in the morning. I live on the 10th floor and coming up and down the stairs was a difficult task,“ lamented  , one of the residents.
 
 “We tried filing a complaint through MSEDCL's  . But, there was no response and they didn't even take our phone calls, though we kept trying to reach them,“ he added. The society was formed in November 2016 and has around 86 flats, with 76 of them occupied. The society is somewhat isolated, thus creating security fears for residents in the event of a prolonged power cut.
 
 Viral Kagathare, another resident who lives on the 11th floor, said, “My mother has a knee problem and she could not come downstairs without the lift. We suffered for two nights and the MSEDCL officials wouldn't even bother to tell us what the exact problem was. On Friday evening, they finally claimed that there were multiple damages to the cables. Most of the residents here are IT employees, and they were majorly inconvenienced.“
 
 “Only 2-3 flats have invertors, while the others are entirely depended on generators. But, the generator had to be used for getting water to the tank, which meant most of the flats were entirely without electricity for 40 hours,“ said  , another resident.
 
 However, MSEDCL officials claimed that other societies, too, were affected. Said R N Kant, senior engineer of MSEDCL, “We received some complaints from the society and soon realised that the power cut was due to faults in the underground cables. Apart from this society, other societies of this locality also suffered power cuts. Our officials had fixed the cable and some other societies got electricity back on Thursday night. The officials then found that there was more damage in the underground cable near 7th Heaven. They tried to fix it but they couldn't. Electricity resumed on Friday evening after some more repairs were carried out.“
 
