KOCHI: Chief minister Pinarayi   says his government will not fail the investors coming to   with innovative ideas
Startup ecosystem in the state shouldn't be restricted to IT sector only, said Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan at the third edition of  's (KSIDC) Young   Summit (YES 3D-2017) held in Kochi on Tuesday.
 
 “The youth should bring innovative ideas in areas like tourism, health and waste disposal. We also need more startups operating in value addition of agricultural products,“ said Vijayan. Earlier, he inaugurated the function by playing a theme video of the summit, using tablet attached to a slingshot brought to him by a robot.
 
 Chief minister highlighted the fact that the state government has set apart Rs 1,375 crore for the development of entrepreneurship in Kerala, of which Rs 549 crore is for IT and related areas. For supporting technological innovations, the government has kept apart Rs 10 crore. “Between KSIDC and  , they are financing 1,500 startups in the state,“ Vijayan said. Vijayan stated that his government will not fail the investors coming to Kerala with innovative ideas. “Our priority is to develop Kerala as the most investor-friendly and industryfriendly state in the country,“ he said.
 
 To ease the setting up of industries in the state, the gov ernment is planning to bring in new legislation to transform KSIDC into a nodal agency , said A C Moideen, minister for Industries, Sports and Youth Affairs. As part of the summit, KSIDC organised an exposition of 49 successful or promising startups, technology incubators and research centres owned by the Central government in the state.
 
 Among the startups at the expo, there were many focusing on hardware. Three of them focused on robotics including Asimov Robotics, which had developed the robot used at the inaugural function of the summit. Genrobotics, founded by former students of MES College of Engineering, Kuttippuram and Sastra Robotics, which is a supplier to Bosch India, were also present at the exhibition.Devices that help monitor and save energy and drones mounted on blimps attracted the curiosity of the visitors. Kannappa Palaniappan and Johns T Mathai, graduates of College of Engineering, Thiruvananthapuram, presented an under-water drone, which has applications in aquaculture and defence. Weighing less than 10 kg, the prototype they developed could operate in a depth of 50 metres. “We are bringing out the next version towards the end of the year,“ Mathai said.
 
