GURUGRAM: After battling for life for four days, 12-year-old  , who was injured in an accident while returning home from school on Saturday, succumbed to his injuries on Tuesday night at  . 

 Vatsal, a Class VII student of   in  , was severely injured on Saturday afternoon when he, along with his cousins, was returning home to Dhanwas village in a school cab hired by Vatsal’s parents. The cab, a Maruti van, collided head-on with a two-wheeler near Dhankot village. 
 
 According to police, the cab was being driven on the wrong side of the road to avoid a traffic jam, when it met with the accident. Following the collision, the car hit a pole, leaving it badly dented on the side. Vatsal, who was in the navigator’s seat, received serious injuries as his head hit the dashboard. His brother and sister, who were seated on the rear row, escaped with minor injuries. The scooter rider, 30-year-old Bhageshwar, was also grievously injured. 
 
 After being informed, a police team reached the spot and took the injured to a nearby private hospital. Seeing his critical condition, doctors referred Vatsal to Artemis Hospital, where doctors conducted several tests on him and admitted him. For four days, Artemis doctors tried several means to treat Vatsal, till his death on Tuesday night. 
 
 “The boy had received multiple injuries on his head. He had suffered a skull fracture that led to haemorrhage. This had affected his brain functioning. He was admitted to the paediatric intensive care unit,” said a doctor working at Artemis Hospital on condition of annonymity. 
 
 Vatsal’s uncle Gulshan, who’s children were also present in the same cab, lodged a complaint against the cab driver, Veyant, and alleged that Vatsal had to die because of his callous behaviour. “Vatsal, my brother’s son, lost his life for Veyant’s negligence. My children were also injured in the accident but are now out of danger. Veyant should be arrested at the earliest and given stringent punishment,” Gulshan said. 
 
 An FIR under sections 279 (rash driving), 337 (causing hurt), 304A (death due to negligence) of the IPC has been registered against Veyant, who is absconding.
 
 With inputs from Chetna Choudhry
 
 
