MADURAI: Once upon a time, Madurai city was surrounded by lakes and   fields with 13 channels   the city providing  .

  As the city expanded and urbanisation turned paddy fields into residences, these irrigation channels have turned into rain water drains. What is worse, they have been converted into sewage carriers in spite of the city having Under Ground Drainage facility for sewage water in entire old city areas. 
 
 During the previous Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission (JNNURM) scheme, the civic body had decided to reinforce these channels. To prevent sewage discharge, it constructed them in concrete by cementing the floor. However, a few years into the project, numerous pipelines have found their way into the strong concrete wall. 
 
 Hundreds of such pipes could be spotted in Panaiyur channel and Sottathatti channel in Anupanadi area, BBkulam channel around BBkulam and Narimedu as well as Kiruthamal channel in Ellis Nagar. In other areas there are still pipes protruding but not as many as in these areas.
 
 Looking at these pipes, one is left to wonder how they managed to drill the strong concrete wall. Either the provision might have been made even when the wall was under construction or residents had deliberately broken the wall and made holes to insert pipes releasing household waste water into the drains. With waste water flowing non-stop, a lot of channels are clogged turning breeding ground for mosquitoes. 
 
 Former Madurai South MLA, R Annadurai said that it was illegal to leave waste water inside rain drains. 
 
 “City corporation is yet to extend Under Ground Drainage system into the extended areas. In such areas it could be understood that people tend to use rain drains for disposing sewage water. 
 
 But such illegal discharge of household waste water is prominent even inside old city areas where there is proper UGD system. Corporation should take stringent measures against residents indulging in these kind of activities”, he said. He also felt that the civic body should expedite UGD works in extended areas or create alternate arrangements for them to deal with sewage water. 
 
 Unchecked sewage water and clogging of drainage channels have become a serious issue. Environmentalists have identified more than sixty outlets including these rain water drains which let untreated sewage into the Vaigai . City engineer, A Mathuram said that the corporation had issued notices to people letting household waste water into drainage channels. “Notices have been served and we will take action against them if they fail to remove these pipes”, he said. 
 
