RAJKOT: "Game maari chhe" (this game is mine)."  ' fans are now likely to sing their team's trademark song at the Saurashtra Cricket Association (SCA) Stadium here on Friday night. The reason? 'Sir'  , one of their biggest weapons, is back in what should be a massive boost for the so-far off-colour Gujarat Lions, who take on   in their own den. The all-rounder immediately lifted the mood in the Lions' camp when he checked into the team hotel on Wednesday. He later batted in the nets too. Having rested his shoulder after a gruelling series against Australia, in which he took 25 wickets@18.56, apart from chipping in with two fifties at crucial junctures, Jadeja must be raring to make a mark and turn around the sagging fortunes of his team, which is currently bottom-placed on the table. In the ace left-arm spinner's absence, Gujarat have looked like a pale shadow of the team which surprised many by finishing third in its first season. Clearly they were missing the spark of the talismanic Jadeja and Dwayne Bravo, who can swing the course of a game decisively either the bat or the ball.

 The Lions seemed to have started off well when they scored 1834 in their opening game against the Kolkata Knight Riders, but a blazing opening stand between skipper Gautam Gambhir and Chris Lynn meant that they ended up with a 10-wicket defeat. They then ran into the rampaging Sunrisers Hyderabad, and suffered a nine-wicket loss this time, as leggie Adil Rashid (3-19) and David Warner (76 not out) conjured their magic.
 
 Gujarat will desperately hope that apart from Jadeja, their impressive batting might, which includes likes of skipper Suresh Raina, Bren don McCullum, Aaron Finch, Jason Roy, Dwayne Smith and Dinesh Karthik plays to its potential on Friday night.
 
 Gujarat's attack, which will now get some much-needed bite, has till now seemed even worse than that of Pune. Local pacers Praveen Kumar, Dhawal Kulkarni, Basil Thampi and Manpreet Gony have all looked ineffective-clearly, they lack an overseas fast bowler who can put the opposition on the backfoot right away. Both their left-arm spinners, Shivil Kaushik and Shadab Jakati, look pedestrian too.
 
 Like Gujarat,  's other newest franchises, the Rising Pune Supergiant will too look to get their campaign back on the track. They started off well by beating the Mumbai Indians by seven wickets in a thriller at home, but SPSG's fortunes have nosedived since then. After being upset by Kings XI Punjab, who downed them by six wickets, they suffered a massive, humiliating 97-run loss to the Delhi Daredevils at home. Unless they log wins, Pune face the danger of a repeat of last year's horror show when they finished seventh in their inaugural season. 
 
