Ludhiana: Complaints and suggestions poured in during the  , for West constituency, organized at a hotel on Ferozepur Road on Saturday. Complaints like cops being rude during public dealing, to security of school children, poor police patrolling — especially during late evening hours — traffic chaos, one-way roads, abandoned parks becoming shelters for drug addicts and miscreants, and unavailability of 100 helpline. Residents also suggested some way to manage traffic and becoming alert and vigilant citizens.

 Police officials — including police commissioner RN Dhoke, additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP-III) Surendra Lamba, ADCP-Traffic Sukhpal Singh Brar, and assistant commissioner of police (ACP- West) Gurpreet Singh — listened to complaints and suggestions, and assured to work on them. Officials also asked the public to comply with all traffic rules and become pro-active citizens.
 
 Safety of school kids
 
 The police-public meeting began with the principal of Government Senior Secondary Model School, PAU, Sanjeev Thapar, raising the most important issue of school children’s security, considering the recent incident at Ryan School, Gurugram, where a student had been killed after the alleged assault. He said: “We have 2,600 students and 150 staff. However, we do not have any security arrangements due to limited funds provided by the government. Moreover, considering the recent incidents, we are more worried about the safety of kids. Therefore, I request the police to provide some security arrangements.”
 
 A representative of BCM Arya Model Senior Secondary School, Shastri Nagar, urged strictness with private school bus operators, as when the school did not allow them to ferry school children for not complying with the Safe School Vahan Scheme, the bus drivers approach parents and start fetching students privately. 
 
 Traffic chaos
 
 President of Ghumar Mandi Welfare Association Aman Batra raised issues related to one-way lanes in the market. He said one-way lanes create more traffic chaos and affect business. He also suggested the traffic police to make one-way roads open to two-wheelers, and another for four-wheelers to make it more organized. Representative of Dr Ambedkar Nagar Welfare Association, Satinder Lahoriya, shared with officials that during late night hours, youngsters do car racing in the area, which could be a life hazard for them or someone else. 
 
 Snatching from labourers
 
 Darshan Dawar, representing the hosiery industry, urged the police to crack the whip on snatchers. He said on the pay day of labourers, snatchers get more active. He requested police to increase patrolling. 
 
 MC’s negligence
 
 Residents and representatives of different market associations raised questions on the negligent and ignorant attitude of the municipal corporation during the meet. President of Sarabha Nagar Market Association, Wang Jenn, stated that the parking contract given by MC was adding to traffic chaos. He said: “Workers of the contractor deployed there merely collect money, and are not bothered about parking, which in fact makes the traffic condition even worse. Wang and Congress worker Sunny Bhalla also said parks not maintained by MC were becoming shelters for drug addicts and other miscreants, and police needed to take note of it. 
 
 District Congress chief Gurpreet Gogi
 
 District Congress chief Gurpreet Gogi said something controversial while sharing his views. He said: “The traffic police should manage traffic around schools, especially around government schools. As private school students are more educated and aware, they can manage things. However, students of government schools are unaware.” He suggested a meeting with auto association to specify their rules and make them more regularized.
 
 Councillor of Ward No.49 and wife of MLA Bharat Bhushan Ashu, Mamta Ashu, raised a voice against the rude attitude of cops. She said at times it was seen that people do the rounds of police stations, and cops do not deal politely with them. She also said PCR was never seen patrolling, unless they are called. 
 
 Police response
 
 Police commissioner RN Dhoke said all complaints and suggestions would be considered. ADCP Lamba, talking about thefts in houses, said residents should inform the police while leaving their house for overnight or outstation vacations. The police will ensure proper patrolling around their houses. 
 
 
