CHENNAI: In what could be termed an eye-opener for prospective homebuyers, the   Regulatory Authority (TNRERA) has received complaints against a promoter who transferred his housing project to another developer who then abandoned it for paucity of funds. The authority has now issued notice to the original promoter of the project which remains incomplete.

 Sources in TNRERA said 70 homebuyers had complained about the project at  . The developer obtained planning permission for the project that was to comprise 340 dwelling units from the Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA) in 2011, he subsequently transferred it to another promoter.“But, the original promoter did not apprise the planning authority (CMDA) of a second developer taking over the project, as per norms,“ an official said. “So we issued a notice to the first promoter of the housing project after the complaints were received last week,“ the official told TOI.
 
 Construction for the project that was to consist of multiple blocks was not completed and not even one apartment was handed over to a buyer. Sources further said buyers had paid more than `25 lakh to the builder. Noting that the buyers have made some attempts in the past like filing police compliant, the sources added that further course of action would be taken by the realty regula tor against the developer based on the response for the notice.
 
 The housing project, which does not possess completion certificate, was not registered with the   regulator in the state. It also does not figure in the list of housing projects exempted by the CMDA from the purview of the RERA Act on grounds of submitting application seeking completion certificate.
 
  president Radhakrishnan said real estate regulatory rules did not permit transfer of housing projects between two developers without the knowledge of the realty regulator. The   Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Rules, 2017 were notified by the government on June 22, paving the way to the implementation of the Real Estate (Regulation & Development) Act in Tamil Nadu.
 
