PUNE: Ramkumar Ramanathan was pointing to his heart frequently after winning the big points and getting the 2,000-strong crowd involved. Sadly , his opponent   neither showed heart nor stomach for the fight.

 The world No. 276 fully capitalised on a below-par Tearney and punished him 7-5, 6-1, 6-0 in less than two hours in the Asia-Oceania Group I   tennis tie against   as India took an unassailable 3-1 lead in the series, making the fifth rubber between Yuki Bhambri and Jose Statham redundant.Yuki answered the spirited challenge of Statham 7-5, 3-6, 6-4 in a match that captain Anand Amritraj described as “the best of the tie.“
 
 Though the context and intensity was missing, it was a good outing for Yuki bidding to break into top-100 after an injury layoff for eight months last year pushed him down to below 400. The spectators, starved of live tennis action of high quality, enjoyed the contest to the hilt. India next play Uzbekistan in the Asia-Oceania Zone at home from April 7. If they win that tie, they will play one of the first-round losers of World Group 2017. The winner of that match will qualify for World Group next year.
 
 Ramkumar was odds-on favourite against Tearney , who had lost to Yuki on Friday with out showing any promise. The first set was fought on even terms. But after Tearney was broken in the fourth game of the second set, it appeared that his desire to fight got a severe beating. Ramkumar's major challenge then was not to lose focus and maintain his intensity .
 
 Pune, hosting a Davis Cup tie after 43 years, was an enthusiastic hosts. After Ramkumar won the final point, firecrackers were burst outside the stadium.Flags were waved from the stands and the players were made to feel like heroes. The Indian team joined in the joyous mood. First Ramkumar was lifted by teammates, then outgoing captain Anand Amritraj and finally , coach Zeeshan Ali.
 
 India, ranked 19th, were always favourites for the tie, despite not fielding their best doubles combination.
 
 
