A salt lake, bordered by Jordan to its east and Israel to its west, the Dead Sea is known for its mineral properties and its several beauty advantages. And now, those minerals are making their way to city salons, for exclusive beauty treatments. From facials to body massages and pedicure — this mineral is being used for every therapy that you can think of. But, what makes this ingredient a special one?

 Dr Riddhi Kapadia, cosmetologist says, “Dead Sea minerals are extremely beneficial for the skin. It helps in detoxification, increases blood circulation and also improves the overall health of the skin. Besides, the mineral also helps in treating skin conditions like psoriasis, atopic dermatitis and vitiligo.”
 
  The Dead Sea minerals are natural wonders of the world which exist 1,200 metres below the sea level and are known for their several beauty benefits. Adding to this, 22-year-old medical practitioner, Aishwarya Agarwal who has recently tried this treatment says, “Dead Sea minerals treatments are huge in Europe, especially the ones where they use the mud base. So, when I heard that there are salons offering this treatment here in the city, I was happy. It did wonders to my skin.”
 
 The demand for this particular therapy has seen a rise in the last few months. “We have been getting requests from a lot of customers for   treatments. After evaluating the feasibility, we decided to introduce this therapy in our facial and body care treatment list. Till now, the response has been encouraging,” says Richa Singh, co-founder of Bigstylist.com.
 
 Jagrity Sharma, a 25-year-old senior content marketing professional says, “I tried the Dead Sea facial and mud pack for the first time when I took a trip to Jordan. My skin felt a lot firmer and tighter, and there was a glow to my face too. I have heard about this treatment being done in salons here and I am super excited to try it out, since they are getting the ingredient from there.”
 
 
 
 Apart from the abundant salt content in the minerals, they also contain a foray of natural substances, which have wonderful effects on the skin.
 
 
  It soothes and relieves skin cells and strengthens cell membranes and cleanses pores.
 
  It accelerates metabolism of cells by assisting the body to utilise other essential nutrients and works as an excellent anti-allergic agent.
 
  It balances the minerals in the body’s cells and maintains the correct balance of alkaline and acid in the body.
 
 It heals and relieves disorders and has a relaxing effect. It is anti-inflammatory in nature and can be used as a natural antibiotic.
 
  It nourishes and hydrates the skin’s cells and removes toxic waste and improves the skin’s permeability.
 
 
 
 What makes this mineral more special is the quantity of salt it contains. While any other sea across the world would have a 3 per cent salt component, the Dead Sea has a quotient of 32 per cent, making it a favourite. Over millions of years, the hot dry air and high evaporation rate have contributed to the high salt concentration present in the sea, making it one of the saltiest lakes in the world.
 
 
 
