BENGALURU:   have a `grave' problem at hand: Finding burial grounds for the  .

 With farmers refusing to part with a portion of their land for setting up burial grounds, government officials face an uphill task with regard to  .The issue came to the fore during a review meeting on Tuesday , when chief minister Siddaramaiah sought an answer from the deputy commissioners of districts and chief executive officers of zilla panchayats. “Why haven't you purchased private lands if government land is not available to establish burial grounds for scheduled caste (SC) and tribes (ST) communities,“ the CM asked.
 
 The officials replied saying farmers refused to give a portion of their land for burial grounds, fearing the remaining part too will be gradually encroached upon by families of the dead. “Moreover, a majority of land owners in rural areas don't want a burial ground next to their land,“ they said. A source, who attended the meeting, said even land owners from SCST communities haven't agreed to give their land to the government.
 
 In the last five years, the state has sanctioned only 104 new burial grounds as against the required 1,224 across 17 districts. In Siddaramaiah's home district of Mysuru, around 475 villages don't have burial grounds.
 
 In fact, this issue has been on top of Siddara maiah government's to-do list, as SCST communities form a huge chunk of the Congress votebank in the state. Two years ago, the government had instructed deputy commissioners to purchase land from private persons. It had also directed officials to take steps to prevent encroachment of existing burial grounds, especially those located close to cities and towns. According to sources, over 500 acres of public burial grounds have been encroached upon in 13 districts across the state in recent years.
 
 In the prevailing scenario, the demand for space for the dead seems to be changing social equations in rural pockets. While the upper castes bury the dead in their agriculture fields, the landless, especially SCSTs, face problem in finding space.
 
 With assembly polls due in 2018, the CM wants to leave no stone unturned in finding space for the dead.
 
 “Find a way to procure land to provide burial grounds to SCST communities. If the cost of private land is high, send a proposal to the government to this effect, and the request will be considered. But if there is laxity in this regard, strict action will be taken against the officials responsible for the failure,“ the CM told officials.
 
