VADODARA: As many as 5,400 students of Vadodara city and district coming from economically and socially backward families will be given admissions in private schools under the provisions of the Right to Education (RTE) Act 2009 this year. 

 The admission process for 25 % reservation in private schools under RTE will be online from this academic year. 
 
 The forms for the admissions under the system will be available from Tuesday. 
 
 During the drive which will continue till March 15, the parents seeking admission for their wards will have fill up online forms which they will have to deposit it at receiving centres with necessary documents. 
 
 “Last year, 3,000 such students from the city had got admission in class 1 of private schools through RTE. This year, admissions will be granted to 4,400 such students from the city,” said Vadodara district education officer M L  , adding that within the city, admissions will be given in 226 schools including 143 Gujarati medium, 69 English medium and 14 CBSE schools. 
 
 “Against 703 children who were given admission last year, this year, 1,000 students will be given admission in the district under RTE,” said  , president of the  , the primary school education committee of the  . 
 
 “It is for the first time that Gujarat government has made the entire system online to ensure transparency in the process. Parents should not fall prey to any tout or agent who claims to have a say in the system as a special software has been developed based on which the admissions will be granted,” said Ratnu. Those students who have completed five years as on June 1, 2017 will be eligible to apply. 
 
 Orphans, mentally challenged, children suffering from cerebral palsy, HIV infected, children of migrant labourers, physically challenged, children of child protection home will be given priority. 
 
 There will be 29 receiving centres in city and talukas of the district where the forms will be accepted. “If the parents find it difficult to fill up the forms, the staff deputed at the centres will assist them,” said Parmar. 
 
 A toll free number 18001201464 has also been started for the admission process. 
 
 
