BHOPAL: City hotels are   for links with high profile online   that was busted in posh Arera Colony on February 19. A BJP leader and eight others were arrested for running the racket. Four girls hailing from Meghalaya and Maharashtra, who were forced into flesh trade, were rescued on the occasion. 

 It had come to light that girls were hired on a monthly salary of Rs 35,000. The gang’s kingpin is still on the run. 
 
 State cyber cell superintendent of police Shailendra Singh Chouhan said, “There is a strong possibility of nexus between hotels and those running the sex racket. We are probing to ascertain how deep were the roots of this racket in city and outside”.
 
 The gang’s kingpin Subhash, alias Veer Dwivedi, is a native of Satna and resided in E-7 Arera Colony , from where the sex racket was operated. A cash reward has also been declared for his arrest.
 
 Police said he had worked at a hotel in MP Nagar area in the past. Those arrested so far include Neeraj Shakya, BJP leader, Dinesh, alias David, Suresh Gehlot, Ravi Prajapati, Harjeet Dhanwani,  , Krishna Kumar, Suresh Belani and Miswauddin.
 
 Among the accused, Suresh and his nephew, Dinesh were taken on police remand for three days. They were the ones who made the website and put mobile numbers of it. The duo would be produced in court on Wednesday after their remand term ends, and would be sent to jail. The girls were mainly school dropouts seeking jobs of receptionist or in beauty parlours. They would charge between Rs 1,500 to Rs 3,000 from the customers, the police added.
 
 The accused were operating an online portal http://bhopalcallgirl.in to rope in clients. It has come to light during investigation that there are more such websites and portals, which the accused were using to run the flesh trade. The clientele of accused included influential people of Bhopal and outside. Apart from Bhopal and MP, accused also operated in other states of the country, police added.
 
 The accused used to identify girls in need of urgent jobs through job portals. They then contacted them and called them to Bhopal. Once in Bhopal, the women were assured with front office jobs in private firms. Later, these girls were forced into flesh trade, police added.
 
