BHOPAL: Students from the state capital failed to secure a place in  . In Bhopal, Yashi Jain (93.2%) and Namrata Bhargava (93.2%) stood first in the Class 12 exam. Prachi Jain (93.8%) and Naman Gupta (93.8%) stood first in the class 10 results. Madhya Pradesh Board of Secondary Education (MPBSE) declared the results at the   on Friday.

 Teachers felt there were issues with evaluation and they would be able to comment after seeing answersheets to know what went wrong. “I was confident at least 7 students from my school would make it to the merit list. This is surprising that no one could manage it,” said the principal of a government school without quoting his name. 
 
 He claimed all 7 students were doing excellent during class. “We were also shocked after seeing the result,” he said. Schools in Bhopal, however, admitted that it was not good for their schools as their students could not make the cut. “It is bad to see that   could not make it to top ten despite studying in the state capital.” 
 
 Toppers in Class 12 exam Yashi is from Namrata Higher Secondary School, Pragati Nagar, Bhopal. Namrata Bhargava is from Brig Trivedi Memorial Education Society. 
 
 Class 10 toppers Prachi Jain is from  , Ashoka Garden and Naman Gupta hails from St George Co-Ed School, Housing Board. 
 
 In Class 12, second position went to three students as they scored 93% each. These students were Namrata Ubrani (Model Higher Secondary, School), Vivek Sahu (Govt Subhash Higher Secondary) and Mahima Rajput (Saraswati Vidya Mandir, Berasia). Third position in the same class went to Apoorva Barange of Govt Subhash School. She scored 92.8%. 
 
 In Class 10, second position went to Sachin Singh Kaurav of Govt Subhash Higher Secondary Excellence School. He scored 93.5%. Third position in class 10 was shared among three students as they scored 93.3%. The students are Palak Tiwari (SVM Higher Secondary School, Ashoka Garden), Sonam Patel (Mustafa Memorial High School, Chandbad) and Keshav Verma (Model Higher Secondary School). 
 
 
