NEW DELHI: What happens in this furious battle between Ravana and the   may decide how   will be celebrated in the capital and in parts of Gurgaon, Faridabad, Noida and Ghaziabad. Ravana, in various dismembered portions, lies on the roads around Titarpur in west Delhi and as the festival nears, will be put together to bring Dussehra to a blazing end. Or not — because this year, civic officials are cracking down on the encroachment of public space by the effigy makers and hauling away the demon figures.

 Fear is palpable in Titarpur, the annual birthplace of combustible Ravanas for five decades now. Every year at this time, over 1,500 effigies of Ravana and the other larger-than-life figures of the Ramayana are created for the fiery climax to Dussehra. Artisans, however, are a worried lot this year. Just 12 days from D-Day, one of them muttered, “We are not working full time because of the fear of SDMC officials. Even if we are now assured undisturbed production, we will not be able to meet the demands of the people.”
 
 The towering bamboo-and-paper figures — some more than 40 feet tall — are manufactured on the footpaths on the main road skirting Rajouri Garden by artisans who also live on the pavements. Giant heads, torsos and limbs of Ravana, Kumbhkaran and Meghnad are constructed separately and stacked by the road side, obstructing traffic and hampering movement of people. Depending on size, the selling price of the effigies runs from Rs 2,000 to Rs 20,000.
 
 SDMC officials, accompanied by police personnel, converged on the site on Friday and confiscated many effigies standing on the public areas. The demon makers have never experienced something like this in the five decades since Titarpur became a Ravana hub. “This is the time we make some money and even our children are involved in finishing the effigies on time,” said artisan Shakila Bano. She has not slept since Friday, when 12 effigies made by her family were busted by the civic officials.
 
 Pappu Yadav too complained, “The three effigies I had made to my customer’s specifications were seized. I had taken a loan to make them.” Khajan Lohar, who lost two creations, had a similar sob story: “I took Rs 60,000 from a money lender. How will I pay it back now?”
 
 And while the prime minister and VIPs attend the Ravana dahan rites, the civic officials emphasise that encroaching on public roads cannot be condoned. SDMC mayor Kamaljeet Sehrawat said, “The drive was carried out after we received several complaints from citizens regarding traffic chaos on these roads.” She added that she had asked officials not to disturb the artisans so long as they did not stack their products on the roads.
 
 But in a letter to the PM, a group of artisans has alleged that two SDMC officials tried to coax a bribe out for them and on failing, seized their effigies saying these were coming in the way of smooth traffic movement.
 
 The face-off has left customers fretting. Pintu Kumar from Vikaspuri had finalised the purchase of a 40-feet figure, but is worried that he will not get delivery. And Rohit Pal, who runs an electronic shop near the Tagore Garden metro station, said, “Effigy making is hugely down this year. Otherwise, by now the roads would have been fully taken over by Dussehra figures.”
 
 Most of the effigy makers are migrants, mainly from Rajasthan. They live on the footpaths and turn iron smelters for the rest of the year. A few of them also make and sell the wooden biers used to carry the dead. The corporation usually turns a blind eye to their creations occupying roadspace, but this year the traditional story has taken a twist.
 
