GURUGRAM: The Haryana government is making a strong push to shift the expressway’s   at   to the outskirts of Gurgaon.

 If this happens, it will make the entire stretch from Delhi to the   toll-free, and become the second toll plaza to go after the 32-lane one at Sirhaul on the Gurgaon-Delhi border was scrapped in 2014. It will also benefit lakhs of people who are in the process of, or are moving into, Gurgaon’s news sectors, around Dwarka expressway and Southern Peripheral Road.
 
 The removal of the toll plaza from Kherki Daula has been the subject of intense speculation for a while. Now, for the first time, senior officials in the Haryana government are suggesting they have managed to tie the loose ends and the toll plaza will go from Kherki Daula soon. It will, however, be shifted, not scrapped. The new location, officials said, will be near   in  , around 16km further down NH-8 towards Jaipur. Land for it has already been identified, the officials added.
 
 For the shift to materialise, the Haryana government will need to pay the private firm that operates the expressway and the toll plaza Rs 2,000 crore, officials said. The state’s industrial development agency, HSIIDC, said it is ready to pitch in with Rs 600 crore.
 
 Sudhir Rajpal, managing director of HSIIDC, said, “We are in discussions with chief secretary DS Dhesi. The state government is likely to buy back the toll plaza from the concessionaire. Out of Rs 2,000 crore, HSIIDC will bear Rs 600 crore,   Rs 600 crore and the remaining Rs 800 crore will be financed by the IDFC (the banking consortium that financed construction of the expressway).” Sources said a meeting was held in Chandigarh on Friday where the government has given a nod to the buy-back option.
 
 But the NHAI said though it was aware of efforts to shift the toll plaza, discussions hadn’t moved beyond that. “There is no formal proposal in this regard,” said YS Malik, the NHAI chairman. “Earlier, too, on a couple of occasions, there has been talk of shifting this toll. Around two months ago, we had a meeting with the Haryana government in which we informed they are considering shifting the toll plaza. They should be prepared to share 50% of the financial implications that would arise. What this amount will be has still not been finalized. What works and what does not has still not been considered. If they are keen about this, they should submit a formal proposal.”
 
 Rajpal, too, said the important part was to figure out the finances and once that was done, the removal should not take much time. Sources said the state government was working to a three-month timeline. 
 
 Concessionaire Millennium City Expressway Private Limited (MCEPL) said it was aware of the development, but had not yet received any communication from the government. “We have heard that there was a meeting held between NHAI and the state government, and the proposal is being worked out, but we are yet to receive a written communication from the government,” said S Raghuraman of MCEPL.
 
 Industry bodies were happy that their efforts were showing results. “We have been campaigning for the removal of the toll plaza for a long time,” said Manmohan Gaind of Manesar Industrial Welfare Association.
 
 
