NAVI MUMBAI: They may not make doomsday predictions or see serial killers in their vision, but they do make some   very happy. 

 People might not be aware, but many pet owners whose pets go missing, are stolen or simply lost often turn to pet psychics for help. Also known as animal communicators they are able to locate pets channeling their inner energies. 
 
 With a surprisingly good success rate, many shelters and individuals seek help from these psychics. While some are even able to communicate with dead pets, others help in finding these missing animals.
 
  does at least two sittings a day which involve missing pets, pets who have passed or even to communicate with animals which have behavioural problems. 
 
 “I get the details from the owners and once they are okay with my line of remedy, I go ahead and communicate with the pet,” said Oza.
 
 This involves “telepathic communication” and ability to channelize the right kind of energy. “I trained with a psychic in Pune, but the important thing is everyone has it; it just needs to be developed,” she added. 
 
 Often owners complain about the pet not eating or overeating, getting too hyperactive or too lazy. Oza claims to have been successful in helping owners deal with these issues. 
 
 Readings are done for pets all over Navi Mumbai.and other regions as well. Since the communication is telepathic, pet psychics are not expected to travel to find the connection.
 
 Another psychic   does not do more than two or three communications per day. “It is about concentration and can be quite draining. I don't even need to see the pet, even a photograph will do,” she said.
 
 The process works on meditation and energy, they explain. Often when animals are in pain, Ganjoo is able to pin-point the exact spot of the discomfort. “I attended a two-day workshop to to learn about this sort of psychic communication and it helps in all areas, missing or sick pets as well as pets who have passed,” she added.
 
 Those who have tried the tested routes to locate or cure their pets are not averse to consult them. “It’s all about meditation and concentrating on the task at hand,” insisted Ganjoo. 
 
 For instance, if a pet is ailing these psychics communicate with the pet and seek out the cause. They then advise the owner or the vet accordingly,. Yes even some vets use their services as well as animal activists and pet rescuers who run shelters. 
 
 
