AMRITSAR: Sikh bodies in the UK have condemned the terror attack on the British parliament while requesting for peace. They have also asked the community members to be more vigilant for being distinctly visible and having faced hate crimes due to mistaken identity.

 Five persons were killed and 40 injured after a knife-wielding assailant ploughed his vehicle into the pedestrians on   before stabbing a police officer inside the British parliament.
 
 Talking to TOI on Thursday, lead researcher at  , UK, Kamalroop Singh said that, “It is very sad. The attack is on democracy, which gives us liberty in this country. The Sikh community in the UK stands with the wider British community in condemning such senseless and violent attacks, and calls for peace and calm at this sad time.”
 
 A Londoner and volunteer with Guru ki Fauj, Virpal Singh, said that the Punjabi community was very shocked to hear about the incident and they were very sad about terrorism and sporadic attacks carried out probably by ISIS and other groups. He said they considered the attacks were on freedom and liberty.
 
 Sikh Council, UK, spokesperson Jagjit Singh said, “We have requested for calm among the public, and in particular we have asked the Sikh community to remain vigilant as unfortunately Sikhs due to their distinct identity have often been the target of unjustifiable retaliatory attacks following incidents of terrorism.” He said it was important that all communities came together during such difficult times and that they shouldn’t let terrorism segregate them.
 
 Chair of the Sikh Federation (UK) Amrik Singh said, “Our thoughts and prayers are with the family of Keith Palmer, who died protecting the parliamentarians and the innocent victims who died or have been seriously injured and their families. The indiscriminate terrorist attack on civilians in Westminster is sickening and deplorable. It cannot be a coincidence that the attack was carried out on the first anniversary of the terror attacks in Brussels,” he said.
 
 
