PUNE: The 29-year-old Panvel resident holds a trophy and certificate in her hand while struggling to smile for the camera. Tears well up in her eyes as she accepts adulation for consenting to donate her 32-year-old husband’s organs, after he was declared brain-dead.

 To mark   on April 12, Grant Medical Foundation’s   felicitated the families of organ donors. April 12 happens to be the day when the first transplant was undertaken in the hospital in 1997.
 
 The young woman attended the function with her toddler and in-laws in tow. Her emotional father-in-law recalled the day the family had to take the tough decision. “I was totally shattered after learning about my son’s death. The doctors explained how organ donation works. It was a tough call but the thought that someone might live longer because of my son made me agree,” he said. 
 
 However, he did not share the news of donating his son’s organs with his family because he did not want any disagreement among the members. “My wife and daughter-in-law found out about it only after the donation was done. Today, when I look back at the decision, I feel really proud,” he added. He donated his son’s eyes, liver, heart and kidney and helped save seven lives in the process.
 
 The decision has also helped the young wife cope with the tragic loss in a way “I learnt that my husband’s heart was given to a 15-year-old girl. Although I have no clue about who she is or where she lives, I feel that I share a bond with her,” she said.
 
 It was an emotional moment for a number of audience members, assembled at the Tilak Smarak Mandir. A police constable wept as he spoke about his father’s death. “Nobody has seen God, but I feel the doctors who save people’s lives are God’s avatar. After I lost my father, the doctors convinced me to donate his organs and today I’m glad that they helped me take the decision,” he said.
 
 Families of 22 cadaver donors as well as families of four live donors were felicitated in the function. 
 
 A 49-year-old resident of Hadapsar considers this as his second life after his son donated a part of his liver to him. “We did find a cadaver donor but, at the time, my father’s health wasn’t stable and we did not want to take a risk. Later, when things got worse and a transplant was the only option, the doctor explained that I could donate him a part of my liver and I immediately agreed. Both of us are doing fine now,” said the son, who runs a hospitality business along with his father.
 
 Chief guests mayor Mukta Tilak and police commissioner Rashmi Shukla launched an app and a website for Ruby Hall Clinic to assist people to easily register for organ donation.
 
