
 

  should be the first step of every saver. You should get insured before you think of doing anything else financially. But to do this correctly you will have to understand what insurance really is and how much of it you actually need.
 
 The definition of life insurance can be simplified as: an arrangement by which a company will compensate your survivors if you die, in return for payment of a specified premium.
 
 Keep in mind that much of what insurance agents try to sell you is not insurance. How much should you be insured for? There are a variety of ways to arrive at the answer, but a starting point is ten years worth of your current income. This will obviously vary according to other family members' income, assets, house etc, but rarely would an amount less than ten years' income suffice. If you don't believe me, quickly make a rough estimate of what your family's budget would be if you were to die soon.
 
 So here's the most important question: Do you have enough insurance? The answer is no. How do I know that? Because that's the correct answer for the vast majority of Indians. So statistically speaking, this is likely to be your answer too. The strange thing is, in my experience, a lot of people know how much premium they pay to insurance companies, but do not know what their family will get if they were to drop dead. 
 
 Actually, it's not strange because the life insurance business is optimised around taking money and indeed, measures its success not by how much its customers are insured for, but how much money they pay. It does so by ensuring that the vast majority of products available in the market are not insurance but expensive and opaque investment products that have a small smattering of real insurance as a statutory requirement.
 
 By the way, this is official. The   (IRDA) also measures success by how much money the industry takes from customers, rather than how much insurance they have delivered and to how many people. The   annual report, or any other published data in this country does not reveal the actual extent to which people are insured. IRDA uses something called 'insurance density', which is the per capita premium charged from customers, as well as the premium as a ratio of the GDP .
 
 These numbers do not tell us how much insurance cover is delivered, only how much money the industry has extracted from people. The real questions are: When a customer dies, how much money does his family get? How many customers have what amount of this cover? What is the ratio of the total premium collected to the cover provided?
 
 Shockingly, this information either doesn't exist (meaning IRDA has not bothered to collate it), or it's a secret.
 
 This attitude is perfectly reflected in the behaviour of whoever sells you insurance. However, the various ways in which agents will try and befuddle you is too long a story. You should just focus on getting ten years' income worth of insurance. If you do this, you will get only the right kind of insurance product which is a term insurance. The reason for that is that in other kind of insurance products, getting ten years worth of life cover will cost you your entire income.
 
 The basic principle of buying insurance is to keep insurance and investment separate and buy only pure insurance (term insurance). In India, insurance sellers have encouraged an investing culture where people are averse to buying term insurance because `you get back nothing'. Agents do this because they earn far higher commissions in other kinds of products. It's not possible to be charitable while commenting honestly about this system so I won't even try . This system exists because the regulator is asleep, agents are conniving and manipulative and customers are foolish. The system won't change, so it's up to you to learn how to actually buy insurance.
 
 
 
 
