LUDHIANA: MLA from Lok Insaaf Party Simarjeet Singh   has moved an application in the sessions court, praying that he should be made a party in the city centre case in which Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh is one of the accused. The State   has recently filed a closure report while giving clean chit to the CM and other accused in the case.

 In the application, Bains said the FIR and thereafter challan in the case was filed under Sections 409 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating), 465 (forgery), 467 (forgery of value security), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (Using as genuine a forged document or electronic record) and 120 B (criminal conspiracy) of the   and under Sections 7, 8, 9, 13 (1) (C) (D) read with Section 13 (2), 14 of Prevention of Corruption Act in the court and the case was pending for framing of charges against the accused.
 
 He added that with the change of government in the state, the state has preferred the report under Section 173 (8) of the CrPC to facilitate the accused.
 
 "That the offences of breach of trust and corruption are crimes against general public and anyone can oppose any report meant for discharge of the accused moved by public prosecutor, as is held by the Supreme Court in a case titled as "Sheo Nandan Paswan vs State of Bihar reported in 1987 AIR Supreme Court 877," the application read.
 
 It further added that under given circumstances, the applicant being a vigilant citizen of the country be allowed to join the proceedings under relevant provisions in the interest of justice.
 
 Kanwar Harpal Singh, counsel for Simarjeet Singh Bains, said the application was moved in the court of sessions judge Gurbir Singh with a request to let Bains join the proceedings under Section 173 (8) of CrPC in the case.
 
 "We will file an application to get the copy of report submitted by the Vigilance Bureau in the case and inspect the same to ascertain on what grounds the closure report has been filed," he said.
 
 The case dates back to Amarinder’s previous stint as chief minister from 2002 to 2007. He along with the then local bodies minister Jagjit Singh, since deceased, was named along with others in the case for allegedly causing monetary loss to the state by awarding the contract for the multi-million mega project in Ludhiana to a Delhi-based construction firm. The bureau registered the case in March 2007 and subsequently filed a charge sheet in December 2007. Two of the 35 persons booked in the case have since died.
 
 Hearing of the case has been adjourned for October 7.
 
 
 
 
 Bains, who was accompanied by his counsel, said by being the party in the case, he wanted to bring to the fore the "frauds committed by Captain Amarinder Singh and former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal and his family." "Why should people of state compensate for such frauds? The vigilance bureau had submitted a 12,000 page chargesheet in the case which had 37 accused including Capt Amarinder Singh. How have they now presented a closure report?" he asked. 
 
