THANE: The last surviving   of the two found   with pellet wounds at Mahul  , Chembur last Sunday, succumbed to its injuries at the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals,   ( ) on Thursday. 

 The other injured flamingo died on its way to the Thane SPCA on Sunday itself. Two other flamingoes were found injured with pellet wounds on January 13 and 14 at Thane and   respectively. While one succumbed to its injuries on January 24, the other bird lost its life the next day. 
 
 Dr Deepa Katyal, board of directors in International Veterinary Academy of Pain Management, who treated the flamingos rescued from Mahul before they were transferred to the Thane SPCA, said, “The moment I saw the first bird, I knew it wouldn’t survive longer. It had multiple fractures, a gangrene wound, a broken wing and other complications and passed away on the way to the Thane SPCA that day itself. The other one, too, suffered a fracture to its left leg. But it needed to be fed as it was starving. This probably complicated its health, and resulted in its death on Thursday.”
 
 Dr Rina Dev, veterinarian who treated the birds, said, “After a couple of surgeries, both the flamingos that were found earlier this month at Thane and Vikhroli were healing quickly. However, as these wild flamingos are used to open spaces, confining them to the hospital resulted in captive stress, under which they refused to eat any food and became weak. After a week of struggle, they died on January 24 and 25.”
 
 Environmental activists in Thane believe that it is high time special conservation activities were undertaken to prevent any similar mishaps in the future.
 
 Pawan Sharma, founder of Resqink Association of Wildlife Welfare, said, “While there is a rise in the number of such cases reported, thanks to the increasing strength of bird watchers who come across these injured birds, there is an urgent need for a rehabilitation centre to treat these birds. The NGOs don’t have enough resources to manage the volume of cases seen these days. It is high time the mangrove and territorial cell looked into these issues.”
 
 Clara Correia, a city-based avifauna enthusiast, said, “The Thane creek belt was recently made a flamingo sanctuary. It is a shame that despite this, these cases still exist. There needs to be a proper study of the biodiversity by the government, and it should be treated with the care given to any Ramsar site.”
 
 
