MUMBAI: The   on Thursday told the Bombay High Court that it had no objection if bail was granted to   accused   Singh Thakur. Additional solicitor general Anil Singh pointed to the supplementary charge sheet filed by the NIA before a special court in May 2016, when the agency had dropped charges under the anti-gangster law MCOCA in the blasts case. The ASG reiterated the NIA stand that there was no evidence against the Sadhvi. 

 A division bench of Justice Ranjit More and Justice Shalini Phansalkar-Joshi is hearing the bail application filed by Sadhvi Pragya, after her plea was rejected by a special NIA court in June 2016. In a related development, the father of a youth who died in the blasts has also approached the HC seeking to intervene in the matter and oppose Sadhvi Pragya's bail plea. Senior advocate BA Desai, counsel for the petitioner Nasir Ahmed, questioned the NIA's clean chit to Sadhvi Pragya. The court has asked NIA to provide documents to the petitioner, including confessional statements of accused, transcripts of conversation recovered from a laptop and the intercepted and call detail record analysis of phone conversations of the accused. 
 
  A blast at Dikku Chowk in Muslim-majority Malegaon on 29 September, 2008 killed six persons and injured 100. A bike used in the blasts was allegedly traced to Sadhvi Pragya, whose trail led to the other accused, including  . Pragya is also an accused registered at Bhopal for the alleged murder of an   worker. 
 
 While exonerating Sadhvi Pragya, the NIA in its supplementary charge sheet had said that "the evidence on record against her are not sufficient to prosecute her as all the witnesses have retracted their statements. Thus no case is made out against her." The crucial piece of evidence that led to the Sadhvi's arrest was the LML Freedom motorcycle that was used in the blasts was owned by her. The NIA had said that after reassessing evidence, it has come to the conclusion that it was wanted accused Ramji Kalsangra who was using the motorcycle. The NIA had targeted ATS over the alleged torture allegations of some of the witnesses and accused and disappearance of one the main witnesses in the case whose identity was withheld. "The dubious method adopted during the investigation by ATS Mumbai becomes crystal clear from the disappearance of one of the main witness," said NIA in its supplementary charge sheet.
 
 
