DUMKA: Chief minister   on Friday refuted allegations levelled by   Mukti Morcha that the scheduled visit of Prime Minister   to Sahebganj on April 6 is “politically motivated”.

 Modi is scheduled to visit Sahebganj on April 6 to lay the foundation stone of a port and a road bridge over Ganga which will connect the state with neighbouring Bihar. The visit will occur three days before the   on April 9 where BJP faces tough opposition from JVM-P,   and Congress. 
 
 On Friday, Das visited Sahebganj along with chief secretary Rajbala Verma, DGP DK Pandey and a team of bureaucrats to review the preparations for Modi’s visit, and held a meeting with local officials at the Circuit House.
 
 “The Prime Minister was scheduled to visit even earlier for laying the foundation of both the ambitious projects. However, it was postponed as he was busy in election campaigns in Uttar Pradesh and other states,” Das told reporters.
 
 The JMM had on Thursday expressed its reservation with the   on PM’s visit just three days ahead of the bypoll. Apart from laying the foundation stone of the projects, Modi will also distribute smartphones to women and appointment letters to the youths of the Pahadiya community in the newly-formed Pahadiya battalion.
 
 “On March 6 the Prime Minister will distribute appointment letters to Pahadiya community members who form sizeable portion of electorates in Littipara assembly seat of Santhal Pargana. This amounts to violation of the model code of conduct,” the JMM’s letter to the Election Commission said.
 
 However, Das said that the Prime Minister’s visit doesn’t have any connection with the assembly bypoll in Littipara constituency.
 
 The chief minister said that both the projects will not only open doors for economic development of Santhal Pargana and the state but will also help in checking the migration of labourers.
 
 “The focus of both the BJP-led central and state government is to ensure development of Santhal Pargana by introducing such plans for the direct benefits to the tribal community dominating the region,” Das said.
 
 Das said that he himself visited Littipara for four times before the death of JMM MLA Anil Murmu to discuss the development of the area.
 
 
