PUNE: Toll on the   is slated for an upward revision from April 1. All vehicles using the expressway will have to pay at least 18% more, a recent government notification has said. Motorists who now pay Rs 195 as toll will have to pay Rs 230. 

 Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation Ltd officials said the state government had issued a notification in 2004 about the 18% toll rise every three years from 2005. 
 
 However, four RTI activists, including Pune's Vivek Velankar and Sanjay Shirodkar, demanded that the state end toll collection on the expressway. They argued that the government had recovered the funds it had pumped to build the expressway's construction and both the state and the IRB have made enough profits. 
 
  "There will be repercussions if the toll goes up," Velankar said. 
 
 Earlier this month, the activists had filed a complaint with the anti-corruption bureau demanding criminal proceedings against ministers and MSRDC officials. The activists said they will approach the court in 45 days.
 
 A senior MSRDC official said almost half the contract period was lost in recovering the compounding interest on the loan and the remaining to repay the principal amount within a shorter period earning the contractor some profits. IRB officials said it was wrong to assume that the costs incurred on the project had been recovered.
 
 Expressway commuters are opposed to the increase in toll. Anil Mani, who frequently travels on the expressway, said although the contractor collects toll, the safety of commuters is a big issue. 
 
 "There is no fencing or a compound wall along the entire expressway. Recently, a leopard was killed near Ozarde. There is complete darkness at night," he said. 
 
 Mangesh Kulkarni, another expressway user, said there are several illegal openings in the median. "Any vehicle can hit other vehicles coming from the opposite direction. There are no steel ropes along the median. During the monsoon, it is a nightmare to travel on the expressway," he said.
 
  Down The Fast Lane 
 
 The full 95-km length of the expressway was inaugurated on March 1, 2002.
 
 A small 30-km stretch from Kon to Adoshi was first opened to vehicular traffic on May 1, 2000. 
 
 On June 10, 2000, another stretch between Kusgaon and Ozarde, a distance of 22.9 km, and a section between Ozarde and Dehu, measuring 16.2 km, were opened for traffic
 
