PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The   ( ) plans to engage citizens to iron out issues like pollution, environmental hazards, unplanned growth and traffic snarls in its bid to turn Pimpri Chinchwad into a Smart City. 

 Seeking people’s views on various issues, the civic body started a survey on Saturday, under which over two lakh citizens will be contacted through various means, including an exclusive website ‘smartcitypimprichinchwad.in’ and a mobile app.
 
 The civic body has set the deadline of March 15 to collect people’s suggestions regarding various issues. Thereafter, a final proposal will be drafted and sent to the Centre by March-end.
 
 While launching the smart city website on Saturday, municipal commissioner   said the survey includes issues like environmental hazards, river front development, cycle tracks, hospitals and removal of encroachments. “For Pimpri Chinchwad, there would be a model area for implementing development works, which will be replicated in the other areas of the twin cities later. The model areas include Nigdi Pradhikaran, Wakad-Pimple Saudagar, Sangvi, Moshi, Pimpri Chinchwad station area, Bhosari and Chikhali. The population of the twin township is around 20 lakh. PCMC will contact 2 lakh citizens as a part of the survey,” Waghmare said.
 
 A few options for city-wide implementation are, improved traffic management, e-governance, Wi-Fi spots, smart parking and pollution monitoring, he added. A Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) will be formed for the implementation of the projects. The SPV will receive funding of Rs 1,000 crore from the Central and State governments, along with PCMC, over a period of five years, Waghmare said. The SPV will also be allowed to borrow funds from the private sector.
 
 PCMC has done a SWOT (Strengths, Weaknesses, Opportunities and Threats) analysis for the Smart City proposal. The strengths include a robust city administration, good infrastructure provision and a bustling real estate market. The weaknesses include a suburban ‘dormitory town’, weak city identity, inadequate cultural and recreational venues and congested old city and station area. Opportunities include an aspirational city, which can become a choice residential and lifestyle destination.
 
