As we walk in to his office, admiring some of his father's paintings, he quietly walks in with a cheerful smile ' that's   for you, unassuming, and yet charming. Ten years into this industry, Karthi has managed to stay away from stereotypes, and has accepted varied roles. Having started out as Mani Ratnam's assistant, he is now acting in the ace director's film, Kaatru Veliyidai. Karthi is quite kicked about his journey, and is chuffed about the way the film has shaped up. He gets talking about the film, handling failures, the  , and more' 

 
 
 I have done 'lover boy' roles in a few films like Paiyaa and Biriyani. But yes, this character is new to me. I play a fighter pilot, who has served the nation for 10 years. It brings an amount of seriousness, and at the same time, it will show the happy nature of this character. Honestly, I have never looked like this before. I was very uncomfortable initially' about shaving my moustache... I think I was quite scared (laughs). Mani sir had to convince me a lot. But once I lost a lot of weight, and sported this look, I felt this look suited my role better. Many love stories revolve around a 'boy' or a 'man child'. When Mani sir narrated the script to me, he said that he didn't want a 'cute-boy Karthi', but a serious man. This man's love story is not like the usual boy-woos-a-girl. But yes, understanding the character took some time. I needed to study it well to know what this was all about. If there were 40 people in a squad, only three or four become a fighter pilot. The rest become cargo flyers or helicopter pilots. So, this requires a different kind of skill and includes a certain mental and physical fitness.When he is someone like that, he can either be calm, or just wear it around his sleeves. I was trying to capture the latter (smiles). And yes, the film is a character-driven one. I would probably call it a relationship-based film. It revolves around their courtship, their differences and similarities. Just two people being together is so complicated, isn't it? (laughs).
 
 
 
 I did take some basic flying lessons, but that wasn't enough. I have a friend, who is a Wing Commander in the Air Force. I met some of his friends... few of them with 10 years of experience, one with 40 years, and so one. Mani sir, too, put me in touch with an officer. But I felt I should go and meet these guys in person to understand their job. How often do we come across them in our lives? So, meeting them really helped me. I spoke to them about their fitness routine and watched the way they carried themselves. The way I look in the film is pretty much the way they look, too. I had to struggle hard to convince myself that I can do this character. Only after I was physically transformed, I developed the confidence that I can pull off this role. Mani sir said that the character is something that you discover and not go by what's written on the paper. New things come up when you begin shooting. It was more like a discovery process for me.
 
 
 
 Ha ha ha... in fact, the character I play ' he's a player (laughs). I can't complain.
 
 
 
 She is very sincere and has given herself completely to the character. For someone who hasn't even heard the sound of Tamil language, she gave it her all. She used to sit during all our reading sessions. Also, Mani sir shoots an entire scene in one go and doesn't allow prompting. But she was extremely well-prepared and ensured she rehearsed all the dialogues. She plays a doctor in this film, for which she was put in a hospital for a couple of days.
 
 
 
 None of the wives like love stories. They don't like to see their husband romancing other ladies (laughs). They would be happy if we do action films. So, I'd rather not ask her (laughs).
 
 
 
 Director Shaad Ali had asked me once, 'You looked like an assistant once and quickly changed gears to become an actor. How did you manage it?' Sir has given me a space that I am comfortable with. Initially, I was sceptical about my performance when he was around. I didn't feel different when we began shooting for the film. The best part now is the way you interact with him. Earlier, I wasn't able to ask sensible questions. But now, I am able to discuss the character, ask questions and get into minute details. He said, 'The working style in this film will be such that you and I will discuss about the performances, and not mere shooting scenes based on what has been written down on papers.' We indulged in some creative discussions, something you normally don't have with every director. In the process, I also got to know that Mani sir is very sweet to his actors, unlike what he is to his assistants (laughs). He pampers his actors a lot.
 
 
 
 The best part about working with him is that he doesn't insist on 'dos and don'ts'. He simply asks you to avoid certain things. The way a scene is written makes you feel that it is the only way in which it could be portrayed. Mani sir comes in, gives you a small brief and then the entire mood of the scene changes. For instance, there was a lengthy dialogue that I had to rehearse. But he simply asked me not to talk and just whisper. I didn't knew that a dialogue could be delivered that way. But doing so, the whole essence of the scene changed. These are a few experiences I had while working with him as an actor. Most of the times, the things which were written on papers were shot as it is. But while capturing a scene, he gives a different dimension to the way actors are showcased. You can always see him energetic and thinking about the betterment of the scenes, which is something extraordinary.
 
 
 
 The film is based on a true story. Usually, cop films tend to have over-the-top sequences. But this one falls under the investigative genre. We are primarily shooting the film in Rajasthan, a backdrop we haven't often seen in Tamil films. I play a small-time cop, who is made to handle a unique case.
 
 
 
 Oh yes, that was pretty quick. When you start with a film like Paruthiveeran, it is difficult to live up to the expectations afterwards. You can't do a simple story, which is why I have been selective about my work. In my 10-year career, I have done only 13 or 14 films. It's been a jolly ride ' I learnt to handle failures. The first time a film fails, it becomes very difficult to handle. But the second or third time, you get used to it. You spend time thinking what went wrong instead of brooding over it. Sometimes, we realise that a particular film is not going well even when we are working for it. You may have liked the script, but somewhere the execution do not work well. But you can't do anything as there are producers waiting to release the film. But if you don't know what went wrong, then you are screwed. The only reason I am slow in selecting scripts is because I don't want to make too many blunders. What matters is how much a film excites me. When I read the script of Madras, I was blown away by the concept of the wall playing a central character. Same goes with Kaashmora, in which a conman gets conned by a ghost. Each film, by itself, should hold an interest. I am very sure about my choices. Even if the films that I have passed on to other actors did well, I have never regretted my decision. I stand by my choices. But looking back, if I hadn't taken that risk to come back to India, I would have probably been writing softwares now. I took the risk to follow my passion.
 
 
 
 We can't control trolling as we don't know where it starts. People like making fun of each other and when it is a celebrity, they enjoy it more. All you need is an updated phone in hand to voice your opinion. Trisha is an animal lover and was trolled alleging that she's a member of PETA, when she isn't one. When she said something and took it back, there should have been some decency to behave with a lady, like what Kamal sir (Kamal Haasan) pointed out. You can't cross limits. Same goes for Arya, too. I also feel that just because we are celebrities, it doesn't mean that we have to voice out our opinions. Sometimes, people prefer to stay quiet. It is their wish.
 
 
 
 Initially, I used to read it and it affected me a lot. But now I feel it is not worth it. There are people who love you, why do you have to bother about the haters? And honestly, you can't make everyone happy.
 
 
 
 Yes, but we have an efficient team, who take charge of different things. But for me as a treasurer, it is more demanding. Though we are very busy, being an office bearer makes me interact with so many actors. That's something I enjoy.
 
 
 
 I don't have to answer everyone's queries on social media. We have a way of running an office. There is a process, which involves writing to the office. And honestly, when people say that we don't know anything, I have to begin saying that I have done Masters in Science... I am educated. There are certain rules and regulations that we follow. We have legal and senior advisors, who advise us on day-to-day affairs. Just because we are not experienced, it doesn't mean that we don't know anything. Also, we don't say thing without any proof. We want to construct the building soon and are waiting for the final approval.
 
