CHENNAI: We see many birds around us, but we hardly try to record their sighting, right? Here's a chance to record and count them. The Pongal Bird Count (PBC), an annual event to document birdlife across  , will be held from January 15 to 18. Coordinated by the   and the  , the four-day event is part of a worldwide effort to document birds around the globe and to make bird-watching popular. 

 "Anyone who has some basic knowledge about birds can participate in the survey. What one has to do is to spot the bird and record it online in the portal," said P Jagannathan, one of the organisers of the event.. The PBC was started in 2015. At least 85 birders participated from 29 districts and uploaded 329 checklists in the Pongal bird count held in 2016. The result of the count will be uploaded into ebird.org (an online platform for bird watchers to register their observations in a systematic manner). "Birdwatching is beneficial for both birds as well as human beings. Seasonality, occurrence and distribution of even common birds around us is poorly known. Hence, Identifying, counting birds and reporting in a citizen science platforms such as eBird India portal can help to understand our birds better," he said.
 
 The organisers hope more people will participate in the third editon of the survey, particularly from the southern districts of the state. "We had a Tamil birders meet four months ago. At least 200 people from various parts of TN participated in the meeting. We had given basic training to those people on how to record the sighting of birds. Even though we had a great survey last year, the response from districts like Tirunelveli, Kanyakumari were low. We expect more participants from the southern districts this time," said Jagannathan, who is also an expert on the field.
 
 "Out of nearly 525 species likely to occur in Tamil Nadu region, 334 species were reported within four days of PBC 2016. During PBC 2016, each participant (totally 170) spent on an average 4.65 hours on birding. Coimbatore and   districts had highest number of participants (28 each)," said the release.How does one participate in this event? "One can document bird species and count their numbers for at least 15 minutes each day and upload the observations onto eBird and submit the species list," it said. 
 
 Various resource materials are available in eBird, online pictorial guide to some common birds of Tamil Nadu and introduction to birds and birdwatching. Log on to http://www.birdcount.in/events/pongal-bird-count-2017 for details. 
 
 
