PUNE: Citizens not happy with the choice of candidates in their areas openly expressed their dissent by pressing the ‘None of the Above’ option in EVM machines in the recently concluded polls to both Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal corporations.

 This is the first time in   that   option was made available for citizens. NOTA option was availed 1,67,000 times in PMC, which has 41 wards with 162 seats, while for PCMC the number stood at 87,773. PCMC has 32 wards and 128 seats. Election officials said NOTA received nearly 400-1,000 votes in about every ward of both the corporations. The total votes polled in PMC was 14.6 lakh, while it was 7.7 lakh in PCMC. This brings the percentage of NOTA votes in both corporations to nearly 12%. 
 
 In ward 13 of PCMC, NOTA recorded 1,820 votes, highest among 32 wards here, against the total of 25,812 votes here. From this ward, BJP’s Kamal Ghole won the seat amassing 7,296 votes, closely followed by Anu Gawli of Sena with 6,868 votes and NCP candidate   polling 5,997 votes. 
 
 In ward number 22 of PCMC, the NOTA option was used 1,688 times against the total polled votes of 26,733. Usha Kale from NCP won from this ward with 11,096 votes, defeating Sujata Nakhate of Shiv Sena.
 
 In PMC, 7,500 votes went to NOTA in three wards, including ward number 7 (  ward), ward number 14 (Deccan Gymkhana) and ward number 15 (Kasba Peth-Somwar Peth).
 
 The large use of NOTA reflects that the citizens wanted to exercise their right, but expressed their dissent by choosing not to vote for any of the candidates. A resident from Kondwa panel 26, who exercised her right to vote, said she was interested in voting for the candidate and not for the party. 
 
 “Only in one group I was aware about the candidate. The remaining four groups threw up names that I had never heard of. The display boards sharing the candidate details too did not give adequate information for me to decide on any candidate. Therefore, I opted for NOTA button for the remaining three groups,” she said. 
 
 Citizens’ groups have always advocated for right to vote and use the NOTA button if they are not happy with the choice of candidates in their wards. Indira Malkani of V-Can, an organization from Mumbai that has been closely working to increase the voting percentage, said it is the best way to express dissent but one must not sit at home without exercising the franchise. 
 
 Satish Khot of the National Society of Clean Cities said they have been campaigning that if they people are not happy with the candidates in the list, they should ecxpress the same by pressing NOTA button. “With this multi-member system, there was enough confusion among citizens about whom to select and so NOTA was an obvious choice,” he said. 
 
 Manasi Phadke, a researcher from  , said the multi-member system was confusing for both the elite and slumdwellers. “There were many polling officers explaining the people about the four groups. With many citizens told that they had to press the same symbol for all, confusion prevailed in the minds of these. Those who were not sure of the candidates surely have exercised NOTA,’’she said.
 
 
