THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: A special syndicate meeting of   here on Monday rejected the demand to cancel  's affiliation to the university. Eight syndicate members, including CPI nominee R Latha Devi, raised the demand while 12 syndicate members - comprising CPM nominees and ex-officio members - voted against it. The UDF members in the syndicate also pointed out contradictions in a letter given by the academy management to the university.

 The letter claimed that former academy principal Lekshmi Nair had expressed her wish to abstain from her post for five years in view of the stu dent protest.
 
 The members argued that this meant the management had not taken any action against her and she could also decide to return to the post later.
 
 The meeting was chaired by university pro-vice-chancellor N Veeramanikandan in the absence of vice-chancellor  . This also kicked up a row as the UDF members had earlier accused the VC of siding with the academy management.
 
 The university examination committee, meanwhile, decided to conduct a detailed probe into allegations of irregularities in award of internal marks and attendance. The syndicate has decided to probe Lekshmi Nair's law degree. There were allegations that Lekshmi Nair did her MA history in Venkateswara University, Andhra Pradesh, in 1986-88 when she was studying LLB in the academy. Kerala University rules doesn't allow a student to simultaneously pursue course/courses in other universities.
 
 The university headquarters also witnessed KSU/MSF protests against the syndicate decision and police had to use mild force and water cannons. The ABVP and the collective of girl students, however, had a different take. "We want the college to function, but the principal should resign; she should never return as principal too," a leader of the collective said.
 
 Earlier in the day, Lekshmi Nair submitted a complaint to state police chief, seeking action against those trying to harass her through social media posts. KPCC president   said the syndicate decision amounted to cheating students. "The nominated officials voted against the demand for action against the academy. The education minister had asked the university to take all possible action against the academy only a few days ago," he said.
 
 The fast by Congress MLA K Muraleedharan and BJP state secretary   is continuing in front of the academy.
 
