KOLKATA: The jury is still out on whether actor   had been drinking and driving. But on Wednesday, parents of crash victim Sonika Singh Chauhan organized a unique 28th birthday party for their daughter at Tollygunge Club. 

 The aim of the event was to spread awareness about how dangerous it is to drink and drive and how important it is for partygoers to behave responsibly behind the wheel.
 
 Sharon and Vijay Chauhan launched the   in the memory of their daughter, who died on April 29. The foundation will have a two-pronged approach — to help talented yet underprivileged girls of Sonika’s age, see their dreams come true and start a ‘Designated Driver’ campaign across the city. Eight premier city clubs have joined hands with the Chauhans in this initiative. Tolly Club, Calcutta Club, Bengal Club, Saturday Club, Dalhousie Institute, RCTC, CC&FC, Calcutta Rowing Club are onboard in the campaign that will ensure post-party safety for guests while returning home. The idea was born in the 1920s in Scandinavia and later replicated in the US and Canada in which the person behind the wheels must be alcohol-free.
 
 “Either a member of the party group offers to stay dry so that he can drive others home safely or the clubs can offer a driver from a specially created pool. The details have to be worked out,” said Tolly Club COO Anil Mukherji. Presidents of all the participating clubs pledged to stay united to drive home the campaign and spread awareness about the dangers of drunken driving. 
 
 The Chauhans reiterated their faith in the fact that “truth” and “justice” shall prevail and profusely thanked the city cops for their help. They cut a white cake to symbolically cheer the spirit of their daughter as her friends sang the birthday song, remembering the spirited girl who never failed to cheer them.
 
 Sonika was a successful model-turned-TV personality who entered the national limelight with shows like ‘Kabaddi League’ that she hosted. Her death at 27 was likened to the deaths of music icons  ,  ,   and Amy Winehouse, all of whom died at 27. Sonika’s friends described this as the “27 Club”.
 
 There will be ‘Designated Driver’ posters, stickers and badges in every member club.
 
