KOLKATA: On Saturday morning, an uneasy stillness gripped Kasba’s Bediadanaga. The Shradh ceremony was on at Palash Jana’s house. Jana, a driver by profession, paid the price with his life as two gangs clashed to gain control of the murky syndicate business that’s plaguing the city and its suburbs for some time now. But locals fear one death isn’t enough to stop the raging gang-war. They are holding their breath, apprehensive that the worst is still to come. 

 “They (the politician) are coming in droves. But nothing has changed on the grounds. While the goons continue with their dirty fight, we are the victims,” said one of Jana’s neighbours. He had to muster enough courage to talk on the ground reality. Others around him were too shaky to speak out, fearing backlash from local toughs.
 
 Police have arrested five persons in connection with Jana’s murder. They have concluded that the murder was a fallout of a gang rivalry fuelled by an infighting between two ruling party leaders. The name of   — locally known as Sona Pappu — cropped up during investigation. Not only cops, every kid in Bediadanga, New Ballygunge and Bosepukur areas knows him by his name. They know the only way to survive here is to keep him in good humour.
 
 Son of a goldsmith, Sona Pappu became a name to reckon with after his involvement in the violent clash to control the Ballygunge railway yard in November 2015. He has 15 cases against him and was arrested twice earlier, but a visit to   reveals that he’s the undisputed syndicate leader here, the go-to man for all factions in the area. His office at Lalkuthir Katapukur is the mecca of local construction business. Police sources say he is controlling over 50 constructions in the areas of Bediadanga, Masjidbari Lane, Picnic Garden Road, GS Bose Road and   and extorts ‘hafta’ from 25 others. 
 
 Two major factions have the backing of two Trinamool bigshots — local councillor Bijan Lal Mukherjee and MLA Javed Khan. The possibility of a fresh attack has made police so jittery that a police picket has been posted outside Mukherjee’s residence. The arrangement was made after a reported link between the councillor and Sona Pappu, the outlaw, surfaced recently. Jana is believed to be a member of the Khan camp but reportedly had no role in the syndicate business.
 
  Talking to TOI in his office, councillor Mukherjee said he didn’t feel safe anymore. “I have not asked for any police protection. I have been shaken by the incident. This type of violence was unthinkable before,” Muherjee said. Asked about his alleged “closeness” to Pappu, he shot back: “I have asked the OC to arrest everyone involved. But then as a councillor, can I deny locals from coming to me. As long as I do not collude with him, there is nothing wrong,” he insisted. Repeated attempts to contact Khan did not yield any result.
 
