HYDERABAD: Given the manner in which   has been feasting on attacks, the opposition bowlers would be dreading the very sight of the Indian opener. The opener from  , stylish as they come, was among the top three in the Indian batting charts in the Test series against England, with two centuries and 357 runs from five matches. After the century in Rajkot, however, Vijay wasted a few opportunities before scoring a century in Mumbai against England.

 “I was playing at balls that I should be leaving actually,“ he said on Thursday after his ninth Test ton, his second at this venue and second against  . “I went back home and gave it a thought and came back to Mumbai and played in the way I would, rather than playing for the situation. I decided not to put too much pressure on myself. These are the small things I rectified in the Mumbai Test.“
 
 He was in his element here. “I was feeling good about my game coming into the series. Hopefully, I can carry that forward. To be honest I just saw the new ball for four-five overs, read the wicket and thought I could play my shots and it came out my way today .“
 
  has been a good influence right from the start of the home season, beginning with the Kanpur Test match, which was India's 500th. “I think he's going to become a great player. It's a great honour to move along with him and pick his brains.
 
 “We are totally different characters in the dressing room because we don't think the same way but once we go in the middle, we enjoy the company and enjoy each others' success. He's been a fantas tic role model for all the youngsters in India. Hopefully he can continuing doing the great work. He makes things easy for me and we both share a good rapport and that makes it easy .“
 
 The missed run-out chance when Vijay was on 35 was not the ideal advertisement for the rapport they share. “We need to work on that, I could have been out, I'll have a chat with him on that,“ said Vijay .
 
 Playing one format, Vijay said, has helped him stay focused. “As I am playing only one format of the game at the moment, I have got a decent idea about it. I wanted to give as many consistent starts as possible,“ he said and added that he is “ready for my opportunity in other two formats as well“.
 
 If Vijay and Pujara laid the foundation for a big Indian score, the former in the company of skipper Virat Kohli, ground the rival attack to dust. “It's always a great sight to see Virat play the way he is playing at the moment. He has taken his game to a different level. At the end of the day, you can see we are 354 (3563) and I thought 340 would be great.The 10-20 extra runs happened because of him. The way he was striking the ball was fantastic.“
 
 
