DUMKA: Women voters turned up in large numbers than the men in the tribal heartland of Littipara, which went to the polls on Sunday in the wake of the death of former   MLA Anil Murmu. The byelection, though, marked a decline in voter turnout. This time the turnout was recorded at 72.11 percent as compared to the 76 percent in the 2014 assembly election.

 The byelection assumed significance for both the ruling   and the JMM in the backdrop of the controversial amendment of tenancy laws and local policy introduced by the Raghubar Das government.
 
 Women voters, including those in their sixties and beyond, were witnessed outside the polling booths right from the morning, having travelled 3-4 kilometres, and this trend continued till late in the afternoon. There were 96,214 registered women electorates in Littipara constituency in comparison to 93,915 men. “I decided to skip breakfast so that I can cast my vote early. But it was in vain as by the time my turn came, it was around 12 noon and the EVM machine had stopped working,” rued Lukhi Marandi, who is in her sixties and hails from Lukhibad village, under Gopikandar block of Littipara constituency. Lukhi along with 100 other voters, who had gathered at polling booth, had to wait for another hour to cast their votes as the EVM machine had to be replaced by a new one.
 
 Reports of the   (EVM) and Voter-verified Paper Audit Trail (VVPAT) not working were received from some other places as well. Voting was disrupted in Littipara, Amrapara and Hiranpur (all in Pakur) and Gopikandar ( ) due to EVM malfunction. Pakur deputy commissioner-cum-returning officer A Muthu Kumar said 8 EVM machines and 21 VVPATs were replaced due to technical snag.
 
 For most of the electorates it was a great experience witnessing the functioning of the VVPATs.
 
 “Unlike previous elections I could check whether the vote cast by me went in favour of the particular candidate or not,” said Doli Kumari of Amrapara block headquarters.
 
 Doli, who cast her vote for the first time at her in-laws’ place, said for majority of the electorates of Littipara assembly constituency unavailability of facilities like healthcare, education and road connectivity figured in the priority list.
 
 “We often have to rush to other places for treatment of simple ailments due to lack of proper healthcare facilities in our locality,” she said. 
 
 A lot of enthusiasm was witnessed among the Christian community which turned out in numbers despite the voting day clashing with the auspicious Palm Sunday, which is held a week before Easter. To enable people to vote, the church allowed Palm Sunday celebrations to extend to Monday. 
 
 “The religious procession of Palm Sunday was extended to Monday so as to enable people from the Christian community to cast their votes,” Anjula Murmu, who teaches at   and belongs to Ranga village, said.
 
