If you thought only rona-dhona, kitchen politics , naagin stories and revenge sagas grab eyeballs, then you need to take a chill pill and laugh a little.Yes, you've read right. The small screen takes laughter seriously , so also viewers across the country . It is evident from the TRPs that audiences, prefer fiction and non fiction comic shows over the OTT drama or supernatural themes in daily soaps. Yes, laughter rules.
 
  GECS GIVE THUMBS UP TO COMEDY
  
  A top Hindi GEC has been consistently airing sit-coms and has maintained its place in the top five GEC list for a long time. Comedy scores high in fiction or reality  .
  
    (it garnered 7259 TRPs as per BARC ratings on May 4, 2017) continues to be a popular show (has been in top 10 shows since 2008) both in rural and urban India, even  's TRPs have been 3452 (Urban) as per BARC ratings data on May 4, 2017; has show continued to be in top 10 shows in the urban category right from its launch in April 2016. C u r r e n t l y, shows like Bhabi Ji Ghar Par Hain!, Har Mard Ka Dard, May I Come In Madam?, Chhote Miyaan Dhaakad et al have kept the laughter quotient high on small screen with upcoming show Bhaag Bakul Bhaag in the fray. Comedienne Bharti Singh says, “ After a long day at work, everyone likes watching something light-hearted.Comedy is something you like watching with your family, so, this genre works.“
  
  COMEDY SHOWS ON A POPULARITY HIGH
  
  Popular sitcom Sarabhai Vs Sarabhai makers had been deluged with requests from audience for a seasonal comeback of the show (since it went off air in April 2006). In a heartening turn of events, the cult comedy show makes a comeback in May as a web-series. Not only that, Ekta Kapoor's evergreen laugh riot Hum Paanch which aired its first season in 1995-99 followed by second season in 2005-6, is reportedly getting a third season. In the past popular show Khichdi and its sequel Instant Khichdi enjoyed such popularity that it was made into a film Khichdi: The Movie. When it comes to reality comedy shows,Comedy Nights With Kapil, Comedy Circus, Comedy Nights Bachao and The Great Indian Laughter Challenge were forces to reckon with on GECs, enjoying a long run.On Gujarati television, Gammat Gulal has run for 20 years, while Comedy Express enjoyed a long run of 10 years. Shows like Aa Family Comedy Chhe and Hirjee Ni Marjee were talking points for their fun content.
  
  LAUGHTER `STARS' GALORE ON SMALL SCREEN
  
  Needless to say, the actors or stand-up comedians have attained stardom. Kapil Sharma, Bharti Singh, Krushna Abhishek, Sunil Grover, Raju Srivastava, Dilip Joshi and Disha Vakani and not to forget the entire cast of Sarabhai Vs Sarabhai, Hum Paanch and Khichdi have a massive fan base. Bharti sums up her experience, “Comedy is very vast. If one has talent, then it can be nurtured though experience. Not everyday is the same for us. It all depends on how well you can keep the audiences entertained. It doesn't matter what kind of comedy you do, as long as it's not demeaning anyone, it's good. Over the years, standup comedians like me have started getting recognition and we are not just comedians, but entertainers.“ Kiku Sharda, who is doing The   Show shares, “I was bombarded with many offers right after Comedy Nights With Kapil. I'm a hard working person and have b e e n busy n o t only with this show but with multi-city tours. It is exhausting and there's tremendous pressure.
  
  When people think I'm a standup comedian, I say I want to be addressed as an actor. I feel proud that I can make people laugh, it's not an easy task to do so.“
  
  
 
  
  MAKERS LOVE TO TICKLE AUDIENCES' FUNNY BONES
  
  It gives showmakers an immense pleasure to make viewers smile.Asit Kumarr Modi, producer of Taarak Mehta Ka Ooltah Chashmah says, “Over the years, I'm happy that I have been able to make my audience smile. Clean comedy is the perfect therapy for the viewers because of the routine stress that they go through. Comedy is the perfect source of entertainment and stress-buster and that is my objective as a maker. I want to de-stress the viewers from their routine issuestensions.“
  
  Even producer-actor JD Majethia says, “Internet viewing is certainly catching up and it is good for viewers who are staying abroad. We still get great feedbacks for our shows like Khichdi and Sarabhai Vs Sarabhai from online viewers.
  
  While coming with a web-se ries, we had to revive Sarabhai Vs Sarabhai Take 2 as there have been changes in audiences' viewing habits over a decade now.
  
  That's very essential when you are creating a remake of a popular show.“
  
  ACTORS TRY TO EXPLORE COMEDY GIGS
  
  Comedy is serious business. As actor  , who has starred in many sitcoms and is an anchor of the popular Gujarati show Hirjee Ni Marjee says, “It is indeed a very serious business to make others laught, as you have to ensure to get your timing right, be it in fiction or reality, otherwise it loses its punch. I observe a lot that's happening around me and that helps me bring liveliness to whatever roles I play.“ Rashami Desai, who was part of Comedy Nights Bachao shares, “Doing comedy helped me become a better actor. As an actor, such gigs are essential as they help you break the monotony of doing drama.“
  
  Seems like not just viewers but makers too enjoy a `comic high' as they laugh all the way to higher TRPs.
