KOLHAPUR: The state government on Thursday gave administrative approval to  's ( ) Rs 114 crore project to strengthen the   supply network of the city and suburbs.

 The project was proposed last year under the Central government's Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) along with a project to develop drainage network.
 
 The drainage-related project worth Rs 72 crore got approval last year, while the project to overhaul the water supply system got stuck because of civic body’s inability to submit the reports for hydraulic modelling and water audit of the existing network.
 
 Suresh Kulkarni, hydraulic engineer of the KMC, said, “The reports were submitted last month. It was delayed because of the time taken in appointing the consultancy firm. On Thursday, the state gave a nod to the project which will now be proposed before the committee of the Central government for final approval. We expect the final approval next month and then we can initiate the tendering process.”
 
 Under the project, the suburban areas will get a new network of water supply   measuring 277-km and old pipeline of around 72-km will be replaced. High rise tanks will also be constructed in areas like  , Puikhadi, Aptenagar, Bawada, Rajendranagar and Rajarampuri.
 
 The tanks located at Rajarampuri and Aptenagar will be demolished as recommended by the structural engineers as they are in bad shape. The report submitted by the KMC included maps of the existing networks, hydrology zones, stats related to consumers, water connections and   of the existing lines. 
 
 Once the new project gets completed the water losses caused during distribution will be plugged and revenue of the water supply department will increase.
 
 “The existing water supply pipes from the city are 30 years old and frequent leakages lead to loss of water and revenue. The areas selected for replacement of pipes are those where frequent water cuts are observed due to damage to the pipes,” said Kulkarni.
 
