PATNA: History will remember senior BJP functionary   as the main player behind the fall of the Grand Alliance government in Bihar on Wednesday. Modi has continued his tirade against RJD chief Lalu Prasad and his family since April 4 over his alleged benami properties and irregular financial transactions. 

 When Nitish termed the corruption charges on Lalu’s family as the underlying factor behind his resignation, he was clearly hinting at more than 20 allegations of corruption against Lalu clan made by Modi over the last three months. 
 
 Modi held over two dozen press conferences to “expose” the benami properties and irregular transactions of Lalu and his family, including his sons Tejashwi and Tej Pratap. The allegations mostly included quid pro quo deals allegedly executed by Lalu and kin for getting properties in return of offering election tickets, ministerial berths and jobs in the railways during the tenure of Lalu as railway minister (2004-2009) and during the RJD regime in Bihar (1991-2005).
 
 Incidentally, Modi was also one of the signatories to the petition filed for seeking CBI probe in the multi-crore fodder scam in 1997, which later led to conviction of Lalu by the special CBI court. 
 
 As Modi continued with his tirade against Lalu, the central agencies — Income Tax, Enforcement Directorate and the CBI — kept taking action against the RJD chief and his aide. 
 
 It was on May 17 that the I-T first conducted survey on 22 locations in Delhi and Gurgaon in connection with benami properties associated with Lalu and his associates. Later, on June 13, Income Tax department provisionally attached properties of Lalu and his associates at 12 locations, including New Delhi and Patna. 
 
 In fact, the mall in question in the FIR lodged by the CBI on July 5 was the first exposure made by Modi against Lalu. This FIR was the basis of JD (U) seeking explanation from Tejashwi. 
 
 The other “exposures” made by Modi regarding Lalu’s alleged benami properties, which invited action by the central agencies include several shell firms run by members of Lalu family, including Delight Marketing Company Pvt Ltd and a petrol pump allotted to Lalu’s elder son Tej Pratap Yadav. Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited (BPCL) has initiated the process of taking back the petrol pump from Tej Pratap.
 
 
