MUMBAI: A day after Nationalist   Party ( ) president Sharad Pawar’s appeal for an alliance with the Congress in the upcoming elections to the municipal corporations and zilla parishads,   president   ruled out such a possibility. Nirupam said prominent city Congress leaders were against such an alliance.

 “I have read Sharad Pawar’s statement in favour of an alliance with the Congress. But on the basis of recommendations made by prominent leaders, we decided to contest the BMC polls independently. We will contest all the 227 seats and our list is expected within a week,” the Congress leader said.
 
 Nirupam said the view of senior Congress leaders was communicated to the Congress high command and then it was decided not to join hands with the NCP. “On our own, we will improve our performance this time. In fact, we will be the single largest party,’’ he claimed.
 
 A few days ago, addressing a public meeting in Satara, Pawar had observed that in view of the outcome of the municipal council and nagar panchayat elections, it was high time that the Congress and NCP join hands to keep the BJP and the Shiv Sena out of power.
 
 NCP spokesperson Nawab Malik said even now it was not too late and there could still be a discussion on seat sharing for elections to the   (BMC). 
 
 “We have declared the list for Mumbai, but we are open for a discussion to dislodge the Shiv Sena from the BMC,’’ Malik said. Elsewhere in the state, he said district presidents have been empowered to negotiate with local Congress leaders for seat adjustments for the municipal corporation and the zilla parishad polls. 
 
 “I think we will be able to reach an understanding with the Congress in some civic corporations and zilla parishads,’’ Malik said.
 
 State Congress president Ashok Chavan said while there is no possibility of an alliance in Mumbai, in rest of the corporations and zilla parishads across the state, Congress district presidents have been authorised to take a decision. 
 
 “It is for the district presidents, if they come with an alliance proposal, we will approve it,’’ Chavan said.
 
 
