MEERUT: Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi’s attempt to visit   was foiled after he was stopped at the   on Saharanpur border by UP police on Saturday. However, Gandhi, who headed to the  , managed to meet, on the Saharanpur border, some victims of the violence in Shabbirpur village.
 
  Accompanied by senior   and UP Congress president Raj Babbar, Gandhi took a swipe both at Modi and Yogi. “The entire state has been pushed into violence. On the one hand Dalits are being targeted here, on the other hand the Centre is destroying Kashmir,” he said.
  
  On the issue of being denied entry into Saharanpur, Gandhi said, “Can anyone tell me under which law I am being prevented from reaching out to victims of caste violence?”
  
  The Saharanpur administration had denied permission to the Congress leader on Friday “in order to avoid any further flare-up in the district in general and affected villages in particular”. However, the party leadership refused to drop the visit and chose a route via Haryana’s Yamuna Nagar to enter the UP border, which was heavily guarded by the state police and additional forces.
  
  “I intended to go and meet the victims of violence in Shabbirpur village, but the local administration did not grant me permission to do so. They did not even let me visit the district hospital to meet those injured in clashes,” Gandhi said.
  
  Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee spokesperson Manoj Tyagi said that all routes leading to UP were blocked. “It appeared as if deliberate attempts were made to create traffic jams so that the Congress VP has a tough time in reaching here. We strongly condemn this behaviour by the state government. Some of our party workers travelled to areas like Shabbirpur and got the victims to the border so that they could meet Rahul Gandhi,” he said.
  
  All top administrative and police officials, including DM Pramod Kumar Pandey, SSP Babloo Kumar, DIG SK Emanuel, ADG (law and order) Aditya Mishra, were present at the spot where Gandhi was stopped.
  
  SSP Babloo Kumar said, “The district administration had already communicated to the Congress leadership about the denial of permission and hence they were not allowed to enter Saharanpur on Saturday.”
  
  In the past 40 days, Saharanpur has witnessed multiple incidents of caste violence leading to two deaths and injuries to dozens of people.
