NAGPUR: Yet another case of negligence on part of   (OCW) has come to fore. Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) private water operator is not spending its money on repairing   after taking over the job five years ago even though it is part of the agreement. NMC has deducted around Rs 60 crore from payments due to it on this count.

 The civic body is already deducting Rs 5.52 crore per annum for the last five years from OCW dues for not appointing international experts which too is part of the agreement. OCW is executing the 24X7 water supply plan in the city. In 2016-17, it was to be paid Rs 95 crore. The amount increases every year.
 
 A senior NMC official told TOI water contamination would have reduced if OCW had spent on renewal and replacement works. “It has to repair and replace the 757.77km old water pipeline, valves etc at the cost of around Rs 15 crore per annum wherever necessary by spending its own money,” he said.
 
 Every year the OCW was to hike the amount it would spend on repairs. “It must now be Rs 17 crore per annum,” said the official who added the NMC will ensure OCW undertook the repair work.
 
 OCW’s failure to execute the works was brought to NMC’s notice by DRA Consultancy which is the project consultant. NMC’s decision to penalize OCW has reportedly caused a dispute between the OCW and DRA.
 
 Guardian minister Chandrashekar Bawankule told TOI the dispute is one of the reasons behind the deterioration of service. “I have asked NMC to appoint a third party to resolve the matter,” he said.
 
 Along with opposition corporators, BJP’s own city fathers as well as legislators are up in arms against OCW. 
 
 NMC official said the dispute was between the civic body and OCW. “We have to take action based on the consultant’s suggestion,” he said.
 
 Denying any dispute with DRA, OCW said project was progressing towards achieving its goals. “The project aims at refurbishment of dilapidated water supply network of the city and replacement of the water connections along with meters to ensure clean, safe and sufficient potable water at every doorstep. The project is a mammoth job and OCW has cordial relations with the consultant and NMC,” said a company’s spokesperson.
 
 
