LUCKNOW: “For how long will this village continue to eat shit?“ That's the way of 'triggering' the   during the village meetings to make people turn towards using toilets. After telling people 'directly' to get a   and use it did not create the desired impact, the state government has adopted this 'in-your-face' approach through which people are   in the open.

 In all the districts, under   (CLTS) programme, surveys and meetings are done through master trainers trained by the panchayati raj department where villagers are made to realize that toilet is relevant. And it's done through simple questions like “how much does a person excrete at a time“? The options in the designed questionnaire are 200gm to 400gm; 400gm to 600gm; or more than 600gm. If a person says, it's 500gm for every individual, then five in a family would excrete 2.5kg of shit at a time. For four families, it would be 10kg of excreta left in the open, the villagers are told.
 
 It is followed by a video shot by the panchayatiraj department, a master trainer is shown standing at the spot where someone has defecated few minutes ago. Villagers stand with their nose covered. The trainer asks, “Can anyone tell whose shit is this?“ He asked for a glass of water and then asked a lady to give a strand of her hair. After putting the strand of hair in the shit, he picks it up and puts it in the glass of water. “Does the colour or smell of water change?“ he asks. People say no. The trainer then explains: “Legs of the housefly are same as this hair, it first sits on the excreta left by you and then on your food. And you eat it.“ The message is driven home. The idea is to keep “ asking people questions like `how much shit would the entire much shit would the entire village excrete in 30 days or more'. And as villagers go on answering they themselves realize it adds up to a huge volume. But if they still do not see its mound in the village, it means the waste is going somewhere. But where? That's the point,“ said state consultant,  , Panchayati Raj, UP, Sanjay Singh Chauhan.
 
 People, through trigger ing, are made to accept and realise they could be eating their own waste. Villagers are told, if a housefly on your shirt or `gamchha' leaves a stain, it could be the `shit'.
 
 “We also ask villagers if the housefly falls in their cup of tea what do they do. They say they drop the tea. But what if the fly falls in a vessel of 5kg milk?“ says Chauhan.Villagers say they take the fly out and keep the milk.And, that's where the villagers are made to think they could be taking back their own waste.
 
 In most of these `triggering' sessions, many villagers vomit. And there lies the success of the exercise. Villagers, while `triggering', are not even once told to construct a toilet but it is through questions like “whose shit is a bigger threat, the grown-up's or the child's“ that they are made to realize that constructing toilet is the best option. It should be constructed and used for health, convenience and privacy. Also, each one of them is asked how much time do they spend out in the open defecating.
 
 Questions are designed based on 13 tools that include aspects like `mahila ka samman' (dignity of women) and other socially and environmentally relevant subjects.
 
 By end of the `triggering' sessions, most villagers want to know how can they make their village open-defecation free. And it is then that they are told to make and use a toilet.
 
