LUCKNOW: Just before 2014 LS polls, when the the then   came out of former UP chief minister Kalyan Singh’s house, he had realised that UP couldn’t be won without wooing back non-Yadav OBCs and non-Jatav dalits. That was the formula once devised by RSS functionary Moropant Pingle in early 1980s and later successfully implemented by Kalyan Singh in early 90s paving the way for a BJP majority government in 1991.

 Since Shah’s meeting with Kalyan Singh, the UP BJP went overboard in wooing non-Yadav OBCs and non-Jatav dalits. No wonder, around 40% tickets went to OBCs in UP assembly election 2017. 
 
 Time to return the favour, the BJP think-tank came up with a judicious mix of caste equation, giving maximum representation in   cabinet to OBCs. In all, 14 OBCs, including deputy CM Keshav Prasad Maurya, have been inducted in the Yogi cabinet. Other prominent OBC leaders include Dharmpal Singh, Swatantra Deo Singh and Kalyan Singh's grandson Sandeep Singh. 
 
 Even though upper caste together are more than OBCs, separately, Brahmins, including debutant Srikant Sharma have got eight ministeries followed by seven to Thakurs, including the CM. Interestingly, Vaishya this time have got good representation, with eight of them, including senior party leader Suresh Khanna and Satish Mahana, making the cut. On the other hand, Yadavs, and Muslims -- so domiant in the previous Akhilesh ministry, have seen a great fall. There is just one minsiter each from both the segments.
 
 Five dalits, including senior BJP leader Ramapati Shastri, who has served as health minister in the last, have also been included in the BJP government. Similarly, two Jats have been given ministerial berth. While one Bhupendra Chaudhary is from West UP region, Chaudhary Laxmi Narain Chaudhary is from Brij region. Senior BJP leader and former UP BJP chief Surya Pratap Shahi is the only Bhumihar in the cabinet. Similarly, Siddharth Nath Singh, is the only Kayasth.
 
 With possibility of inducting at least 12 more ministers, the BJP think-tank is making every effort to ensure representation of all the major   which combined to give BJP a huge mandate. 
 
 Last but not the least, in what is being seen as party's bid to show its secular credential and despite not fielding any Muslim in the election, former Ranji cricketer Mohsin Raza has been inducted as the lone Muslim face. Adding to it, one Sikh Balwant Aulakh has also been taken. Aulakh is an MLA from Rampur district, which has politically been known as the pocket borough of SP’s minority face Azam Khan. 
 
 
