MYSURU: The high voter turnout in the bypolls to   and   assembly segments has enthused politicians from both   and   camps.

 Political circles are focused on the outcome in Nanjangud as it has wider implications across the state given that former chief minister B S Yeddyurappa tried to stitch together a winning combination of Lingayats and dalits.
 
 On Monday, the final polling percentage was released -- while Nanjangud registered 77.45%, it was 87.1% in Gundlupet. Both segments bettered the 2013 turnout figures.
 
 Congress leaders are confident the turnout will help it sail through as its core voter base has stood behind it. A senior Congress leader, who chalked out the poll strategy for Nanjangud starting from helping the leadership select the candidate and also campaigned extensively, said, “We are on a solid wicket in both segments as our core voters have supported us.” This assessment is based on feedback from 60% polling booths in Nanjangud.
 
 A survey commissioned by the Congress indicates it’s leading in both segments. It also indicated that Congress candidate in Nanjangud Kalale Keshavmurthy has a strong hold over voters in Nanjangud town. In the 2013 assembly polls, he came very close to winning with support from town voters.
 
 The BJP camp, which collected feedback from workers on the ground, said it’ll breach the Congress citadels. Though feedback suggested it’s on a sticky wicket in Nanjangud town, it’s expected to do well in rural areas. Though the party tried to garner support from OBCs, mainly Upparas and Nayaks, indications are that there are no major divisions among them. In both segments, Lingyats and dalits have voted significantly for the BJP. During the 2013 assembly polls, the Yeddyurappa-led KJP came second in Gundlupet and third in Nanjangud, indicating his support among the Lingayats. It has continued this time too, a BJP leader said.
 
 Sources said Yeddyurappa does not plan to visit the city until the weekend. He’ll be in Bengaluru on April 13 when counting will be taken up and will cele
 brate Ambedkar Jayanti in Bengaluru.
 
 
 
 
 Election officials sealed the strong room at JSS College in Nanjangud at 11.55pm after polling staff from all 236 booths reached the centre and handed over the EVMs and VVPATs. The strong room was sealed in the presence of candidates or their representatives and observers, deputy commissioner D Randeep said. The entire process was videographed.
 
 The strong room at St John’s School in Gundlupet was also sealed late at night. Both strong rooms are under 24-hour CCTV surveillance. Paramilitary forces have been deployed at the inner perimeter while local police are manning the outer section.
 
 
 
 
 Candidates and local leaders took it easy on Monday. While senior party leaders had to vacate the segments on Friday following the EC deadline, candidates worked hard till the end of polling at 5pm. On Monday, they relaxed even as they collected feedback. 
 
 Congress candidate in Gundlupet Geetha Mahadeva Prasad stayed at her Kuvempu Nagar home in the city and spent time with her grandson. Congress candidate in Nanjangud visited the party office and later met PWD minister H C Mahadevappa at his Nanjangud residence. His BJP opponent V Srinivasa Prasad, senior dalit leader, met local leaders at his residence in Jayalakshmipuram.
 
 
