Body Copy: Marylebone Cricket Club had recently suggested that cricket bat sizes should be regulated as batsmen are taking too much advantage of the bat. There has been a lot of discussion among players and cricket pundits about the suggestion. At last, the verdict is out and ICC ( ) has announced a set of changes in the playing conditions, which has come into effect for all international matches from September 28. We have picked a few changes and asked experts about their view on the same…

  
 :
 The ICC has announced that there will be no more top-up reviews after the completion of 80 overs (in an innings) in Test matches. It has also announced that DRS will be allowed for T20 internationals (1 review per innings). Now, teams won’t lose a review if the on-field decision remains unchanged because the ball tracking shows ‘umpire’s call’.
 
  
 : This is going to be really challenging for the players. For instance, if a batsman like AB De Villiers is trapped in front of the wicket and the umpires says no, you wouldn’t be able to review it, since your reviews are over. But, ICC has made this decision showing faith on the umpires. When it comes to T20, things are happening so fast that the game is shifting towards batting and bowling sides in no time. I think it’s a good to have DRS in T20. Everybody is under pressure in a T20 game including the umpires and this gives the teams a chance.
 
  
 : It is unfair if a team loses a review because of an umpire’s call, so it is a good move by the ICC. This way, a team will not need a top-up of reviews after 80 overs in a test match, because most of the reviews are lost due to umpire’s call. And, one review per innings in T20 is fair enough.
 
  
 : All games have been using video referrals. It’s human to err, but, technology helps us in such situations. DRS also brings the viewers into play as they also see what happens in slow motion. But, it’s still a trial and error option. I welcome DRS in t20 cricket.
 
 
 :
 Bats with edges thicker than 40mm and depth more than 67mm will be banned. Thickness of the edge cannot exceed 40mm and thickness of the bat cannot exceed 67mm. Umpires will be given a gauge to check whether the bats are within the regulations.
 
  
 : The game has changed so much and it has become favourable to the batsmen. Even being a batsman I definitely think it is a good thing that the bat sizes are reduced. There is a popular picture of Barry Richards (South African player) holding the bat which he used to make a triple hundred in one hand and David Warner’s bat in the other. Warner’s bat would be three times bigger than Barry’s. Even a mishit would go for a six in that bat, so it’s unfair to the bowlers, who are already been suffering with flatter wickets.
 
  
 : This is a great move. Imagine I bowl a good ball and he gets deceived and a top edge goes for a six…It’s ruthless on the bowler and a huge advantage to the batsman. This will balance the game and be less favourable to the batsmen.
 
  
 : As a bowler, I feel the ball hasn’t changed much, but the bat has evolved over a period of time. The size of the grounds and modern regulations has helped batsmen a lot and I feel this would make the game less beneficial to the batsmen. We have to wait and watch if the ball still flies to six of an outside edge or it doesn’t travel to the boundary because of the reduction.
 
  
 :
 If a batsman is running or diving towards the crease with forward momentum, and has grounded his/her bat behind the popping crease but, subsequently has lost contact with the ground at the time of the wickets being put down, the batsman will not be  . The same interpretation will also apply for a batsman trying to regain his/her ground to avoid being stumped. 
 
  
 : The bat of the batsman bouncing inadvertently once the batsman dives and reaches the crease has become a common sight. The third umpire will have to come in to play all the time, I think they are trying to say it’s unfair to give it out just for the fraction of second the bat goes up even after he has reached the crease. It is a huge advantage for the batsmen, because it applies for the stumping too.
 
  
 : I think it’s a fair call as far as the run out is concerned, because the batsman would have dived and already reached the crease, but, the bat would have bounced after hitting the pitch hard. It’s unfortunate to give him out there. But, when it comes to stumping, I’m not sure if it will work. Because, the batsman could have been lazy to ground his leg behind the crease before the bails are dislodged. I feel this is an advantage to the batsmen.
 
  
 : Benefit of the doubt mostlygoes to the batsmen as they have only one chance in the game. One mistake is all it takes for the batsmen to get dismissed and they would have to walk back to the pavilion. I think they are making sure that this rule is favourable to the batsmen.
 
 
 :
 The ball can now be caught, or stumped after it hits a helmet being worn by a fielder/wicketkeeper and it will be given out.
 
  
 : It’s a fair call. Imagine if I am standing at short leg and I have taken a hit on my helmet and the ball flies in the air and keeper catches it and it is not out. It is unfair to the fielder, because that hit is going to really hurt him and there is no reward for that. And, this has even happened to me, I got hit by Inzamam in my wiser, when I was standing at silly point and it starting poking my cheeks. If a fielder manages to catch that, that should be given out, because there won’t be any motivation for the fielder standing close to the batsmen, when the next ball is bowled even after getting hit.
 
  
 : I’m not sure how this will work out, because a fielder who stands at short mid-wicket or any position in front of the wicket can wear a helmet and use it to his advantage. We have to see how it works out.
 
  
 : The previous rule made sure that the external gear doesn’t have an impact on the game. We need some rules favouring the fielding team especially in a limited over format where the bowling side enjoys only a little advantage. They are balancing the game so that the bowlers feel there is an even contest.
 
 
 :
 A player can now be sent off the field for the rest of the match for any serious misconduct, meaning it will apply to Level 4 offences (Threatening to assault an umpire, making inappropriate and deliberate physical contact with an umpire, physically assaulting a player or any other person and committing any other act of violence all constitute Level 4 offences) while the Level 1 to 3 offences will continue to be dealt with under the ICC Code of Conduct. 
 
  
 : You are playing at an international level and young kids are watching you, so, you obviously want to set good standards. They should set such standards that the future cricketers should follow.
 
  
 : Our sport is not a contact sport like football, we don’t even touch our opponents unlike basketball or football. So, it’s not clear on what basis they are going to send a player off. I don’t think it will be fair if a player is sent off just for arguing with the umpire for a decision.
 
  
 : Obviously, you have to maintain the law of the game. The modern day aggression has taken a different turn and players have to make sure they stay within the rules of the game and not get personal. A lot of youngsters consider sports stars as their role model, so they have to maintain the discipline. They have to make sure that the game doesn’t lose its charm.
 
  
 
 
