NAGPUR: The   (NMC) has taken up development works in the city, but they have been too slack to be noticeable. The debate started off with this perception which the panellists shared about the civic body. “In between two elections, only promises are made but there is no change,” said retired RBI official  , the   of the panel and one who has witnessed many   in the city.

 In an interesting observation, orthodontist   said, “If you look at the manifestos of political parties in 2012 and 2107, the issues that have been raised are similar and only rephrased. I believe they will be taken up in the next elections too.”
 
 Whatever development is happening now is largely due to the efforts of chief minister Devendra Fadnavis and Union transport and highways minister Nitin Gadkari, felt businessman Dinesh Chhabra. But chartered accountant Naresh Jakhotia believes that the same old story will continue. “If things are to change, we need a new approach with more participation from the people,” he said.
 
 Vandana Bhagdikar, head of the department (English) at Mahila Mahavidyalaya, expects the corporators to take the initiative. Giving an example, she said, “The internal roads in Laxmi Nagar are well maintained. So, if the local leader wants, there can be a good change.”
 
 Shefali Dudhbade, environmental activist, wants more involvement of people and a change in mindset. Taking up the garbage disposal issue, she said, “We are creating mini Bhandewadis in our areas. It’s time we start using more and more bio-degradable things.”
 
 One of the biggest hurdles for local level development is the abysmal connect corporators maintain within their area. Under the prabhag system, the area has increased and this may make it even more difficult for the corporators as well as the people. “Social media can provide a solution for this,” said Ankit Nangia, a businessman. “The corporator can form WhatsApp group to create a platform for the residents to voice their opinion or highlight issues. This will also help to bring transparency in civic works,” he added.
 
 Dr Karia and Vijay Limaye, a social activist, said that there are certain problems which are quite evident and the corporator shouldn’t wait for people to point them out. Agreeing with them, Nangia gave an example of Byramji Town where street vendors haven’t been evicted though he had filed a complaint against encroachment five years ago.
 
 Swapnil Rewatkar, a student, said corporators make promises during elections but later on they don’t want to work for people. “During the recent elections, I could not find phone number of any of the candidates on their pamphlets. This makes it quite obvious,” said Swapnil. Danish Shaikh, another student in the panel, added that there should be better coordination between people and elected representatives.
 
 Jakhotia wants corporators to be made accountable. “The problem is people do approach their leader but the assumption is that there will be no action on their complaint.” Chhabra added that accountability can come if the corporator meets the local resident at least once in a month.
 
 But do elected representatives take suggestions or opinions of people seriously. “Only when if the proposal suits their own interest,” said Chhabra, pointing out at corruption in the system. Limaye explained, “Suppose we approach them with a proposal worth Rs50,000, they would be least interested but if it’s of Rs10 lakh, then it is readily accepted.”
 
 The civic body often blames scarcity of funds for lack of development. “Funds are a problem because the number of taxpayers is very small,” said Dr Karia. Chhabra added, “People from the lower strata are exempted from paying taxes as they are the primary voter base.”
 
 “However, if there is will, funds can be raised from multiple sources. For example, the NMC has huge chunk of unutilized land which can otherwise generate good revenue with proper planning,” said Jakhotia. Dudhbade came up with a suggestion that the NMC should conduct competitions among the zones and for corporators for better utilization of funds and resources. Limaye added that best practices of other cities should be adopted to increase revenue.
 
 Over the years, the NMC has miserably failed in improving the standard of education in its school and providing good health care to the citizens. “Schools are in a pitiable condition and the classrooms are empty. However, when there is an inspection, the classrooms get filled in no time.” Jakhotia added that improvement can be made as NGOs and private organizations are ready to run schools and health care facilities for the NMC.
 
