Bhopal: Is the jar of ‘muscle growth supplement’ you picked up at a gym or neighbourhood store safe? Bhopal is being flooded with adulterated supplements at the same speed as the craze to bulk up and magically transform into an Arnold Schwarzenegger. The seizure of fake protein food on Friday is only the tip of the iceberg. 

 Anand Minj, a former national-level body builder, who runs a gym in MP Nagar, said, “India has become a big market for  , thanks to rising gym culture. The younger generation finds such products on the Internet but cannot understand if they are fake. Even stockists and whole sellers of original brands are buying fake products to earn more profit.” Professional body builders are very careful but the image conscious GeNext is easily lured by the promise of quick muscle gain. “These fake products are harmful for kidney, liver, blood pressure.”
 
 Anand Yadav, a trainer, said most of the supplements and protein powders are fake these days. “I always caution people coming to my gym. I advise them to stick to natural diet.” 
 
 “About 70% dietary supplements sold across the country are fake, unregistered and unapproved,” says an ASSOCHAM report. It is difficult to identify the fake ones but the billion-dollar industry in India will grow to $4 billion by 2020. The survey, conducted in 2012, found that 78% adolescents in urban India take dietary supplements without taking into account the side effects.
 
 Dr Ankur Joshi, a former GMC physician, said: “Fake supplements and proteins contain anabolic steroids that target important organs such as kidneys and heart while causing a lot of damage to bones.”
 
 Hanumanganj SI G S Mahobiya, who has been investigating fake food supplements, said that many gym owners and trainers even push these dangerous powders to make a fast buck because they get it cheap from adulterators. These fake products look exactly like the original ones. The men arrested on Friday for selling fake supplements have been in the business for two years, Mahobiya said.
 
 “They have sold these fake products at fitness centres in Meerut and Bulandshahar before coming here. They used to sell a 2.3kg container of the powder at Rs 180-200, which the gym owners then sold to customers at Rs 2,400 to Rs 5,000.”
 
 
