Mumbai: In north Mumbai, the BMC election is a never-ending family drama, or so it seems. The 42 municipal wards in the populous Lok Sabha constituency, which sprawls lazily between Dahisar and Goregaon, serve as a proscenium for warring cousins, doting parents, affectionate brothers and overbearing husbands, all from a clutch of VVIP families. 

 A ‘bhabhi-nanad’ (sisters-in-law) duo is in the fray in two different Dahisar wards. Both have identical names: Sheetal Mhatre. Cool, isn’t it?
 
 As polls come, defection is in vogue. Ruling dynasties gear up to protect their political fiefdoms and business interests, chiefly Slum Rehabilitation Authority (SRA) contracts and offering ‘protection’ to local traders. Money begets power and power begets money. Swanky homes, cars, gadgets and a retinue of faithfuls are the hallmark of a vintage clan.
 
 The Gen Next is being groomed to handle high pressures of ambition and avarice, even as poll campaign hots up in slums, chawls and towers. “Ultimately, what matters is the family. Whatever I am today is because of my family,” declares Vikram Chogle, the   candidate from ward 12.
 
 Vikram’s family has turned defection into consummate art, say old-timers in Rawalpada. Shirish, Vikram’s father, was a   loyalist since the party’s inception. He joined the MNS in 2007 and won a seat in the BMC. However, an acrimonious court battle over caste certification put a stop to his political career. In 2012, Shirish secured an MNS nomination for Shilpa, his wife, from a nearby ward. Shilpa won by 27 votes.
 
 However, this time around, Shilpa has given up her claim on the ward in favour of Vikram. The 30-something son, a builder, joined the BJP which too was eager to get into the good books of some of well-connected ‘khaandans’ (dynasties) in the area. Meanwhile, Shirish and Shilpa managed to get a Sena ticket for Preeti Dandekar, their daughter, from Borivli west. 
 
 The Darekars too can smell a good opportunity, never mind the party tag. Once a staunch Raj Thackeray loyalist, Pravin Darekar was elected to the state legislative assembly as MNS candidate from the Magathane assembly constituency in 2009. In 2012, Prakash, Pravin’s brother, won the BMC election from Borivli east on an MNS ticket. Two years later, Pravin lost the assembly election, promptly crossed over to the BJP and bagged a seat in the legislative council.
 
 Darekar’s defection to the BJP is seen as a clever move to retain hold over the Mumbai District Central Cooperative Bank which has for long been wracked by financial irregularities, said analysts. Prakash too quit the MNS and is now in the fray as BJP candidate. ‘Bhai ho to aisa’ could well be his campaign catchline, say local residents.
 
 The Kadam clan, which prides itself as the Kennedys of Borivli east—thanks to the hard-earned wealth and clout of Nandkumar Kadam, the patriarch who died last year—appears to be in turmoil. Rajesh, Nandkumar’s low-profile son, dropped a bombshell on his cousins Nayan and Chetan early this month by filing nomination in ward 13 as Sena candidate.
 
 While Rajesh, a builder, joined the Sena a couple of years ago, Nayan is the state vice chief of the MNS. Meanwhile, Chetan, who won the BMC election in 2012 as MNS candidate, joined the Sena along with wife Bharati last month. The Sena has fielded Bharati from ward 14. “Chetan Kadam's footwork is amazingly swift,” laughed Sumedh Bane, a young bank employee who purveys the poll scene with delightful cynicism. Not stopping at pitting MNS candidates against both Rajesh and Bharati, Nayan has launched a virulent campaign against his cousin Chetan for switching loyalty to the Sena. 
 
 In Dahisar, former Mumbai mayor Hareshwar Patil, who quit the Sena and joined the BJP two years ago, has bagged the BJP nomination for his daughter-in-law from ward 8. Rambrij Yadav, a prosperous north Indian and BJP veteran, has managed to win party nomination for his granddaughter in a Dahisar ward. Mahendra Ved, also a senior BJP functionary from Borivli, failed to get the party ticket for Khushboo, his daughter. However, she bagged the MNS nomination in a last-minute move by Nayan Kadam. As Khushboo sat down to file her nomination papers as Independent in the election office on February 2, the MNS, in a swift move, replaced their official candidate with her. Khushboo represents a political 'khaandan' in-the-making, say observers.
 
 
