AHMEDABAD: A disabled farmer, two doctors, a spiritual preacher and a veteran music director are among the eight Gujaratis to figure in the list of   declared by the government on the eve of Republic Day. While spiritual guru Ratna Sundar Maharaj would be conferred  , six others including highway emergency services pioneer Dr Subroto Das, onco-surgeon Dr Devendra Patel, music director Purushottam Upadhyay, academician VG Patel, Vishnu Pandya and farmer Genabhai Patel have bagged  .

 
  
 
 Shri Ratna Sundar Maharaj | Spiritualism
 
 The 70-year-old Jain saint is widely acclaimed for his spiritual sermons and books aimed at uplifting the society. Shri Ratna Sundar Maharaj has penned 311 books and was awarded the Golden Book of World Records for writing over 275 books in a single language (Gujarati). His most acclaimed book is `Lakhi Rakho Aaras Ni Takhti Par', a parental guide translated in 20 languages including English, Urdu, French and German. His sermons on channels devoted to religion and spirituality have a viewership of 3.8 crore. 
 
 
 
 
 Dr Subroto Das| Medicine 
 
 After surviving a serious highway accident in 2002, Dr Subroto Das established a highway accident helpline -- Gujarat's first emergency medical service (EMS). Das catalysed EMS in countries like Sri Lanka working closely with stakeholders in Turkey, Bangladesh and Bhutan.
 
 “I am humbled and honoured by this award through which the government has recognized every paramedic, every ambulance driver, every doctor who saves lives on roads and every person who intervenes in an accident as a bystander,” Das told TOI.
 
 Das was one of the finalists of the Lead India contest organised by The Times of India in the regional round at Ahmedabad in 2008. He was also on the panel of judges in the regional round at Vadodara of the Times Public Speaking contest in 2015 and 2016.
 
 Dr Devendra Patel| Medicine
 
 The 84-year-old surgical oncologist has made immense contribution in the field of cancer surgery in Gujarat. He was director of   from 1993-2002. “I have received many awards including the Dr BC Roy Award but getting national recognition in form of Padma Shri is a matter of pride.” said Dr Patel who continues to operate cancers till date. “There is a phenomenal rise in cancer due to lifestyle and genetics. Advanced diagnostics, higher expectancy has also played a big role in more cancers being diagnosed,” he said. 
 
 Genabhai Patel| Agriculture
 
 The physically disabled farmer from Sarkari Goliya village in Lakhani taluka of Banaskantha district was awarded Padma Shri for transforming drought-affected land to profitable pomegranate farms. The 52-year-old `Divyang' farmer was struggling to make ends meet till he single-handedly took up pomegranate farming and is credited for turning the border district into one of the largest producers of pomegranate with exports to Middle East. He was recently lauded by PM Narendra Modi for his growth-story. “A humble farmer winning a Padma Shri will inspire more farmers to think out of the box. My aim is to help as many farmers as possible,” said Patel. 
 
 Vishnu Pandya| education, literature and journalism
 
 Vishnu Pandya, 71, columnist and writer, has already scored a half century in journalism. “I am happy because this award increases Gujarat’s pride,” Pandya said.
 
 Pandya, who had penned a book titled ‘Mera Rang De Basanti Chola’ on freedom fighters, was jailed for a year during emergency. “I wrote against Emergency and press censorship during that period through Sadhna weekly run by me. Gujarati Sahitya Parishad awarded me for my book, Misavasyam,” he said, adding, “I know what censorship is. I know freedom of press and appreciate when journalism is awarded.” 
 
 Purshottam Upadhyay | Art- Music
 
 Purshottam Upadhyay, 83, who composed music for singing stalwarts like Begum Akhtar and Mohammed Rafi, has lent his voice in more than 40 Gujarati, Hindi and Marathi films and has released more than 90 music albums.
 
 Based in Mumbai for the last 40 years, Upadhyay, a proud Gujarati, said, “The award is the result of my 40 years of perseverance and what I had done in the field of classical music. I also gave opportunity to various Gujarati artists in an era when Gujarati classical music was going through a rough phase.”
 
 Upadhyay said that Gujarati music industry has witnessed an immense change. “Now Gujarati films have been witnessing a new trend as stories are being penned on modern era. I am an artist of traditional classical singing. But I am also open to give music for new era films,” he said. 
 
 V G Patel | Literature & education
 
 The 77-year-old founder of   (EDII), is credited with pioneering work in the field of ‘startups’ in 1970s when the movement was yet to pick up momentum. 
 
 Patel, who presently works with a consumer education organisation, says that he was nominated for Padma awards thrice in the past. “I had expected the award a decade ago when I was the director of EDII and was also working with the World Bank and other globally renowned financial organisations,” said Patel. 
 
 Appreciating the ‘Start up India’- Stand up India’ initiative, he stressed that there is need for good training, counselling and teaching in entrepreneurship to churn out good start ups which he terms growth engines of the country’s economy. 
 
  Hasmukh Shah| Literature & Education-Journalism
 
 The US-based NRG is a well known entrepreneur, philanthropist and community leader. Shah, 71, is the chairman and CEO of TV Asia, a coast-to-coast 24-hour TV broadcasting network for South Asians in the US with focused content for Indians ranging from politics to religious and social causes. He is chairman of Bharti Vidyabhavan which promotes Hindi and Indian culture amongst second and third generation Indian Americans. Shah is especially credited with not only acquiring over 400 stores but giving a new model in convenience store business where people from ethnic communities were made owners of the stores.
 
