NEW DELHI:   was abuzz with life on Monday evening as   rolled into the capital after covering nearly 7,000km through 16 states. 

 Delhi was the last stop in a journey that also saw 144 events held across the country to raise awareness about river revival and garner public support towards it. 
 
 Vice-president Venkaiah Naidu was the chief guest at the function that also saw the participation of Union environment minister Harsh Vardhan, culture minister Mahesh Sharma, singer Sonu Nigam and Bollywood actor Juhi Chawla among others. 
 
 The stadium was jampacked, and people cheered the various performances as well as the videos depicting Sadhguru’s journey with Isha Foundation members. Videos messages by celebrities, politicians and campaign partners, highlighting why ‘Rally For Rivers’ was the need of the hour, were also shared. 
 
 Nigam started the evening with patriotic songs before singing ‘Jis desh mein Ganga behti hai’ and ‘Kal ho na ho’. The performances also included classical dances and kalaripayattu – a martial art from Kerala.
 
 Describing Mahatma Gandhi’s act of picking up a fistful of salt as one which made the British Empire melt into surrendering,   said it was akin to people giving missed calls on the campaign number 80009-80009. “Mahatma's acts were very simple but precise and clearly pointed in one direction. At the Sabarmati Ashram, I looked at the classic picture of Mahatma picking up a fistful of salt—this fistful of salt melted the whole great empire into surrender. Your missed call is similar to the fistful of salt, a very small act. If it is precise and focused in one direction, we can have our rivers flowing again,” said Sadhguru. The crowd welcomed it with a thunderous applause.
 
 Sadhguru said they were likely to submit a 700-page draft policy recommendation to the government on Tuesday, but it needed public support on the ground. “If this is implemented aggressively, we will see some results in 25 years. There are many challenges and complexities in execution, so it’s very important that we approach it strategically, not emotionally, with science as the basis,” said Sadhguru, adding that it was time for the country to shift to the ‘sustainable’ mode after years of being on survival mode. 
 
 Naidu said people could no longer turn a blind eye to the situation. “You need to be a part of the change. If we don’t act now, it will be too late. We need to take up the cause together and complete it in a time-bound manner. But the support of the people is crucial here,” said Naidu.
 
 Vardhan, meanwhile, asked the people to do one good green deed each day as a way of giving back to the environment. He also urged the people to give missed calls on the campaign number to bring about a big change. 
 
 
