JAISALMER: Is it the end for the   in the famed city? From all accounts and facts on the ground, it does seem so.

 Even as the state government claims to lay stress on conserving and promoting ancient drinking water sources under the Mukhyamantri Jal Swalamban Abhiyaan (MJSA), the famous   stands as question mark to such claims made by departments and the ministry concerned.
 
 Constructed by   700 years ago for the people, this artificial   has been neglected now for decades.
 
 To construct this lake, Raja Gadsi had made huge sacrifices and later lost his life. It was his wife who later fulfilled her husband’s dream. But that legacy has been largely forgotten by both the government and the people.
 
 The water in the lake, which was used by the whole city for drinking as well as for worship in temples, is so dirty that the stench overwhelms people if one goes near it. The water pillar on the lake too has tilted towards a side.
 
 Along with   Lake, around a dozen lakes close to the city have dried up and are on the verge of extinction. These include Gulab Sagar, Joshida Sagar, Bhatiasar, Gajrupsagar, Deadansar, Amarsagar, Bada Bagh, Moolsagar, Jeevania, Govindsar, Mohatasar, etc.
 
 The pillars, cenotaphs and other ancient structures around the lake have become dilapidated despite a recommendation from experts of IIT Roorkee, around four years ago, to include Gadisar in the national lake conservation project.
 
 But the state government did not show any interest to preserve and develop the lake.
 
 When it was originally built in 1335, the lake had a diameter of 120 square miles and many public institutions, schools, public kitchens, ‘yagashalas’ and the temples of Neelkanth Mahadev and Girdhariji used to function from its banks.
 
 Even during periods when the rains were scarce, the lake would have water and fed the nine ponds close to it.
 
 All these are a thing of the past and Gadisar has shrunk to the point that it’s breathing its last. There is only filth and garbage around the lake now.
 
 After the Air Force airport was constructed in the vicinity of the lake, the flow of rain water to Gadisar and nine other ponds stopped. This was made worse by the construction of colonies and illegal structures in a haphazard manner on terrain that let water drain to the lake.
 
 Famous historian Nand Kishore Sharma said that Gadisar was in such as pathetic condition that even the local people were shunning it or uses it as a dump.
 
 He said the water of Gadisar was used for drinking purposes till about 20-25 years ago. But things changed after commercial exploitation of the river rose with growing tourism and urban development.
 
 Swarn Nagri Vichar Manch president Mahesh Vyas aka Goga Maharaj has send a memorandum to the chief minister regarding the condition of Gadisar Lake and requested her to intervene urgently.
 
 Vyas said the carved stones and stone benches have been damaged along with the ghats. People were stealing ancient stones and the water wells near ponds, filled with silt, have dried up as there was no one to take care.
 
 Meanwhile, the ‘I Love Jaisalmer’ team has kept up their campaign of saving the lake by regularly writing letters to the government and making efforts to keep the lake and surroundings clean.
 
 
