GREATER NOIDA: Several  , seeking higher compensation for the land acquired for  , were arrested for blocking the construction of the EPE on Friday. 

 While 89 farmers were booked for stalling the expressway work under Section 107(16) of CrPC (which binds a person to refrain from any illegal activities for six months), 39 others were booked for stopping the train at Bodaki railway station under Section 151 of CrPC (arrest to prevent cognisable offences). 
 
 The farmers, who were demanding four times the offered compensation under the new Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013, were detained at multiple places and taken into custody.
 
 Farmers who tried to stall the EPE work at different places including Ladpura, Beel Akbarpur, Amarpur, Bishada and Sirsa villages of Greater Noida were arrested.
 
 Similarly, 60 farmers including women blocked the Haldia-New Delhi Express train at Bodaki railway station. The train was stopped for 14 minutes, from 12.12 to 12.26 pm, after they were prevented from joining the ongoing indefinite protest at Beel Akbarpur village.
 
 “We wanted to go to Beel Akbarpur and hold a ‘sabha’ at the spot where our fellow farmers were holding an indefinite strike but were not allowed to do the same. We then headed towards Bodaki railway station and sat on one of the platforms as we have been left with no choice. We disturbed them after they disturbed us,” Ajit Singh, one of the protesters at EPE, told TOI.
 
 According to farmers, for the first round of acquisition done in 2006, they were given a compensation of Rs 3,500 per sqm. But this compensation was settled only in 2016.
 
 “In the next round of acquisition in 2017, we are being given only Rs 3,640 per sqm. Who will accept this? For the land acquired from 39 villages in 2006, we were being given Rs 3,500 per sqm. Now, 11 years later in March 2017, land from 24 more villages were acquired for widening of the EPE. The farmers of these new villages should be given compensation four times under the 2013 Act and also suitable interest rate,” said another farmer.
 
 In fact, the bone of contention is whether the villages should be treated as urban or rural areas. The district administration, quoting Greater Noida and Yamuna expressway authorities, claims that these villages are part of the urban area as the same was notified in 2006. The farmers, on the other hand, claim that the government should not have held panchayat elections in these areas if they were urban areas.
 
 Farmers said the land rate fixed has been lower than the prevalent rate at present. “If we look at the present rate of Rs 1,800 per sqm, still we should get at least Rs. 7,200 per square meter (fourfold). What we are getting at present is half of what we deserve,” one of the farmers of   said.
 
 Most farmers quoted the example of their counterparts in   saying that they have received compensation between Rs 11,000 and 17,000 per square metre.
 
 Farmers tried to stall the work at other places as well but they were arrested and taken to the police lines at Surajpur where their names were noted and issued challan under sections 151 and 107 (16) of CrPC.
 
