NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Friday appeared to open a window of hope for Railways, Services, Association of Indian Universities, National Cricket Club and Cricket Club of India to regain their full membership in the Indian cricket board ( ). On July 18 last year, the SC had accepted the Lodha panel's 'one state one vote' recommendation and relegated these bodies to associate membership without voting rights. It had also asked the three bodies each in Maharashtra and Gujarat to enjoy full membership with voting rights on rotation basis.

 A bench of Justices  , AM Khanwilkar and DY Chandrachud, which is monitoring implementation of Lodha panel recommendations in BCCI, appeared to have second thoughts on Friday as solicitor general   pressed for giving back full membership to  , which have been participating in development of cricket in India for decades.
 
 The bench said: "Historically, the contribution of Railways in development of cricket and other sports have been significant. Can Railways be relegated to associate member of BCCI? Some kind of formula has to be evolved so that no body or association which had been historically involved in the development of cricket in India are deprived of full membership. One cannot possibly equate small states with these important bodies."
 
 The court said it would decide this issue on September 5 along with other issues including filling up of vacancies in CoA arising from the resignation of  , who have been appointed as MD and CEO of National Stock Exchange, and historian  . The court recorded the reason behind Limaye's resignation and relieved him of CoA duties.
 
 However, the stink raised by Guha in his long resignation letter pointing fingers at functioning of the CoA and other contentious issues failed to impress the SC, which said it was a resignation simpliciter. Amicus curiae Gopal Subramaniam has submitted six names in sealed cover. The court asked other parties to submit four names each for filling the two vacancies.
 
 
