

 
 It’s the same thing: Developmental focus for the government and political focus for the party.   has been saying that without development of eastern India, the country can’t grow at a faster pace. He has a vision to do that. The pro-poor programmes and infrastructure initiatives in past three years have benefited this region the most. If the PM’s development agenda has to reach to the grassroots, the party also needs to be strengthened. We are working very hard to strengthen our base in this region. If the BJP governments come to power in these states including Odisha, the developments will be faster.
 
 
 
 It will create a favourable ambience for the party’s further growth in Odisha. It will boost cadre’s morale. There will be sustained political activities on the ground in these two years.
 
 
 
 No. I only consider myself a committed BJP worker. There is appropriate forum in the party to decide on CM matters at an appropriate time. Different strategies are made in different situations. Today, our focus is to strengthen the party and try to win the maximum Vidhan Sabha and Lok Sabha seats from Odisha when it goes to poll next.
 
 
 
 At times I have also been portrayed to be soft towards Naveen. I don’t have anything personal against Naveen or anybody else. It’s a political fight. I stand for the political belief of my party. The incumbent government here is a failed government, stagnant, thoroughly corrupt and incompetent. As an opposition political party, it is our duty to create public opinion against this government, we are doing.
 
 
 
 Whatever is happening in BJD is their internal matters. In a democracy, election gives an opportunity to defeat a rival politically. In the last panchayat election, we fought to increase our strength. We were successful. Similarly, our strength will grow further by 2019. I don’t see any reason of assembly election before that in Odisha. If the BJD is worried with our strength, it is the regional party’s problem.
 
 
 
 Grassroots workers are more important than top leaders. We want to have our workers in all 36000 booths. Every day leaders and workers from rival political parties are joining the BJP. They include those from the BJD. Every day new friends are coming to out fold.
 
 In panchayat election your party emerged the clear the No 2 player. The winner spot is still held comfortably by Naveen Patnaik-led BJD? How do you aspire to dislodge him?
 
 The way we became Number 2 by pushing the Congress to Number 3, we will defeat the BJD to emerge the winner. All political parties aspire to win election. For that you need political agenda, activities and leadership that can touch people’s hearts. In all these, the BJP is ahead of others. People in the country at large are showing their support to the PM’s vision and clarity in his approach.
 
 
 
 Elections and politics are not arithmetic. It’s all about chemistry. One thing is clear in the latest panchayat poll. Vote share and seats of the Congress and the BJD have gone down. Ours have gone up. There is no reason how the BJD will hide the 17 years of incompetence in the next 20 months. People’s faith on the BJP has increased. The youth, women and scheduled castes, scheduled tribes have new hopes with Modi’s leadership. That’s the people chemistry with Modi government.
 
 Regarding numbers, our vote rose from 18% in 2014 to 33% in February rural poll while the BJD’s fell from 43% to 40%. The Congress share decreased from 26% to 18%. If our share goes up by another 5% to 7%, then we will form the next government. For that we will more vigorously popularise Modi government’s pro-poor agenda to the grassroots and keep on exposing the inefficiency of the incumbent government here.
 
 
 
 In most parts of the country, people have shunned the Congress in the recent elections. As a political party, it’s degenerating. Odisha is no exception. Here also, the party has lost its relevance.
 
 
 
 That has not happened in past three years. People have reposed their faith on the PM. Modi government’s popularity has only been going up each passing day because of pro-poor initiatives, a long-term clear vision for the country and for creating an ambience of self-respect for the countrymen. The recent round of assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand prove that. By another two years, the popularity would only be better than what it is today. We will consolidate more.
 
 
 
 It’s premature to talk about that. It’s time for us strengthen us politically. Odisha has immense possibilities. The main focus of Modi government is to ensure basic facilities for health, education, drinking water, roads, employment etc. To achieve these things faster, we need to form the government here. Once a BJP government comes to power, then it will work on state-specific agenda.
 
 
 
 The BJP believes in greater decentralization of administration and judiciary. I think there should be HC bench outside Cuttack so that people have easier access.
 
