Shraddha Kapoor's monsoon mush in films like 'Aashiqui 2', 'Ek Villain', 'ABCD 2' and 'Baaghi' has been favourably received by the audience. And the lady herself is more than happy to be caught in a shower. "There's nothing more romantic than the rain and since these sequences have worked well for me, I don't mind getting drenched at all. I love dancing in the rains. Add  's music and it's pure magic," says the 30-year-old actress who plays  's 'Half Girlfriend' in an upcoming romance-drama of the same name. Incidentally, Shraddha's next rain song 'Baarish', featuring Arjun this time, releases today.

  
  
 An adaptation of  's 2014 novel, it is set in three distinct worlds -Delhi, Patna and New York. All the three landscapes are essential to Shraddha's character, Riya Somani's journey because she changes as a person in each of these settings. From a 'hep', high-society Delhi girl she moves to a more modest, fusion inspired avatar post interval. "I've enjoyed wearing some of the world's biggest brands for the most part of the film, gradually shifting to more handloom-kitsch weaves. Mohit and Anaita (stylist Anaita Shroff Adajania) gave me a look that's straight out of a fairytale. She's done a phenomenal job with all my looks in the movie," smiles Shraddha, for whom the film has come as a breath of fresh air after an onslaught of girl-next-door turns. "My best look would be the Delhi one, undoubtedly. She's super-glamorous and dolled up, unlike any of the characters I've played before."
 
 The film's trailer, which released on Monday, has fuelled a debate on social media about the definition of a half girlfriend. Shraddha explains that the plot addresses commitment phobia too. "These days, while parents have warmed up to love marriages and live-in relationships, youngsters have become commitment-phobic. In this film too, the guy is a friend yet not exactly a boyfriend. I discuss these equations openly with my parents," she says, quick to add that the film also tackles the hypocrisy that English-speaking people, are better than small-towners who may not be fluent in the language. "It's the story of a boy from a small town who is grappling with an inferiority complex."
 
 Shraddha has wrapped up another upcoming summer release 'Haseena: The Queen of Mumbai' ­Apoorva Lakhia's biopic on  's sister, and says that as an actress it was difficult to juggle the two schedules as Haseena and Riya are from different worlds. "I'm extremely nervous, they're my biggest releases for the year," she signs off.
 
  
  
 
