HYDERABAD/NELLORE: The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) conducted simultaneous raids at TDP MLC Vakati  's properties in Hyderabad, Nellore and Bangalore on Friday morning in relation to a fraud case registered against him and seven others based on the complaint lodged by   (IFCI). 

 In their complaint, IFCI representatives stated that VNR Infrastructures Ltd (VIL) had applied for loans for the purpose of executing Rs 190 crore worth projects in 2014-2015 financial year by placing the documents of certain immovable properties as security. "The value of the properties kept as security was inflated with the malafide intention to not repay the loan. The accused have thereby caused a loss of Rs 205.02 crore to IFCI Ltd," the CBI release stated.
 
 Based on the complaint, CBI's Banking Security and Fraud (BS&F) unit of Bangalore, registered a case under various sections of the IPC and the Prevention of Corruption Act against VIL and V Narayana Reddy, a TDP MLC from Andhra Pradesh and MD of VIL, Ganji Praveen Kumar, Director and Chief Finance Officer (CFO) of VIL, AP Industrial and Technical Consultancy, Hyderabad, Midcon Consultancy and Engineering Ltd with its office in Pune and Bangalore, M/s PKNR Estates Pvt Ltd, Hyderabad, Indusree Housing Pvt Ltd, RKR Housing Pvt Ltd and unknown government servants.
 
 CBI simultaneously searched the offices of the accused firms and individuals at Hyderabad, Bangalore, Nellore and seized incriminating evidence. The CBI sealed all his properties including his residence at Nellore.
 
 IFCI lodged a complaint with the CBI after Narayana Reddy failed to respond to notices. Narayana Reddy is a former Congress MLC who later defected to TDP in 2014 after losing the elections. He allegedly defaulted on loans taken from the State Bank of India, Bank of Baroda and the Indian Overseas Bank. 
 
 In another case, CBI's Hyderabad unit officials have registered a case against Atul Sri Krishna Thakrey, Assistant Director and Manoj, Assistant Plant Protection Officer, both officials of Plant Quarantine Information System (PQIS), RGI Airport for demanding and accepting Rs 4,000 bribe from a businessman to issue Phytosanitory certificate for sample export of 'Mytea' brand tea cups to USA & Canada. CBI arrested Manoj who was caught red handed accepting bribe from the complainant and remanded him in judicial custody.
 
