Gurgaon: Two women bank employees foiled a robbery bid by two armed men in a State Bank of India (SBI) branch in Badshapur on Tuesday, police said.

 The robbers, according to police, stormed into the bank around 1pm on Tuesday after shutting the main gate, thrashed one of the two women employees, took the duo hostage at gunpoint and tried to loot around Rs 2 lakh in cash, but were overpowered by bravehearts Bimla Devi and Poonam, who turned the tables on an assailant, snatched a gun from one of them and raised an alarm to prevent them from escaping. A few youths rushed to their help and thrashed the robbers before handing them over to police. The whole episode was caught on CCTV camera.
 
 Police said the robbers struck at the women employees while they were busy at work. The SBI branch, according to police, does not have a security guard and has only two women employees. 
 
 The accused — Deepak (21) and Mohit (19) — who are from Jhojhu Kala village in Haryana’s Charkhi Dadri district, came to Gurgaon around 20 days ago in search of jobs, police said. While Deepak is a graduate, Mohit has passed matriculation.
 
 “One of the robbers first came to my colleague Poonam’s desk, pushed her and took the money from a drawer. The other assailant slapped me, but I managed to snatch his gun. By then, Poonam got on her feet, turned the table on one of the robbers who attacked her and pushed him. People gathered when we raised an alarm and thrashed the robbers before handing them over to police,” said Bimla Devi, one of the women employees. Poonam said they decided to fight off the robbers though were afraid to take on them initially.
 
 Gurgaon police commissioner Sandeep Khirwar said the women would be honoured for showing exemplary courage.
 
 The accused were arrested and an FIR was registered at the Badshapur police station based on the complaint of Bimla Devi under sections 392 (robbery), 397 (robbery with attempt to cause death or grievous hurt), 459 (grievous hurt during house breaking) of IPC and 25-54-59 of Arms Act.
 
 Police said two country-made pistols were seized from the accused’s possession. “We reached the spot within five minutes after we received the information about the incident and arrested the duo. The accused confessed to have committed the crime. The court remanded them in two-day police custody. The interrogation is under way,” said inspector Rajender Singh, SHO, Badshahpur police station.
 
 
