
This time, Delhi’s New Year’s Eve celebrations were going to have a splash of prime ministerial bonhomie, quite literally. Ever since restaurants and pubs in the capital announced that they were going to screen Narendra Modi’s address to the nation live, revellers had been anticipating it as a special party favour, while others wondered if another big announcement was going to be made, a la demonetisation. Some venues even included special offers for each time the prime minister would say his favourite word –   – like discounts on drinks or free shots. But NaMo pulled another strike out of his sleeve and the word didn’t find place in his speech even once. Was that so people would pay attention to his words and not be busy counting how many drinks they would win them? Party abhi viraam par hai, mitron! 
 We went to two venues to see how many games would be played courtesy the PM’s speech. People too, had started to reach cafes and restaurants hours before official party time. But clearly, Modi had other plans in store for everyone. 
 In  , all those who had arrived in time for the speech sat in front of the screen in anticipation. As the address progressed, tense faces and the reaction to every “Bhaiyon aur behenon” was like watching the highs and lows of an important cricket match. 
 
  
  ‘Ab aaya mitron... nahi, ab...’
 
 
 As the PM started to thank his countrymen for supporting him even during demonetization, and did not say anything significant for the first 15 minutes, listeners began to say, “Point pe aaiye, Modiji. Party bhi karni hai iske baad.” Each time he said, “Bhaiyon aur behenon, ab samay aa gaya hai...” many reacted with “Ab kuch hoga”, “Ab kya ban hoga?” and “Ab hum gaye.”
 “Our New Year plans were dependent on his speech today. I thought anything could have happened, and throughout the speech, I was hoping he didn’t ban anything else, at least today. And you know, this is the ‘terror’ of his speech, nobody forced us to listen, but we couldn’t move even for a second. Kab kya bol dein, kisi ko nahi pata,” said Jyoti Bhatt, a resident of Subroto Park, who had come for the screening. 
 Smriti Singh, who had come from Faridabad, added, “Kuchh ban ho jata toh bas, ban jata New Year. I actually didn’t expect this but thankfully, it all went well.”
 
 
 
 While many were glued to the screen expecting a big announcement like the one on November 8, there were others who were waiting for the PM to say ‘mitron’ to get free offers. Though this cafe didn’t have discounts, those present here at least got to make fun of all those who were expecting to drink at the cost of ‘mitron’.
 “‘Mitron’ has always been a part of his speech, and at a time when the whole country wanted to listen to it, he didn’t say it. This man never fails to surprise us,” said Amit Gupta, a resident of Karol Bagh.
 Komal Singh, who had driven down from Noida, added, “He might not have announced anything as big as demonetization tonight, but has dampened the New Year spirit of all those who were waiting to drink to ‘mitron’.” 
 “People wanted to say cheers to ‘mitron’, but the PM didn’t give a single chance to raise a toast to ‘mitron’. I feel sad for all those people!” laughed Prachi Soni, a resident of Mayur Vihar.
 
 
 
 
 Has Modi unfriended the nation?” Partygoers who had made special reservations for his speech at Social felt like their party had crashed after this speech, much like the crash after the last one.
 
  
  
 
 
 So many jokes, memes and drinking offers – did that make the PM privy to what partygoers were up to? Gunjan Gupta, an IT professional who was partying at the venue, told us, “But why did he choose not to use our favourite ‘mitron’? ‘Doston’ mein woh baat kahan jo ‘mitron’ mein hai? Flavour toh saara chala gaya. I want to ask him, ‘Koi toh baat hogi, yun hi koi bewafa nahin hota.” He added, “I hope ‘mitron’ will be back in his speech soon, but in the line-up of disappointments this year, ‘mitron’ missing from Modi’s speech has scored above all else. Drinks bhool bhi jaoon, ‘mitron’ ko kaise chhor doon?”
 
 
 
 People were watching the speech with such attention that whenever Modi was about to begin a sentence, they would say, “Ab bola, ab bola”, but finally, “Aakhir Modi ne kyun nahin bola?” asked a disappointed partygoer. Siya Aggarwal, a bank executive, said, “We changed our plans to watch Modi’s speech, but probably, his speechwriter got to know that ‘mitron’ was the selling point of the evening, and replaced it with ‘doston’ and ‘deshwasiyon’.”
 
  
  
 
 
 Fifteen minutes into the speech, and people had already begun losing patience. Forty minutes later, without a single utterance of ‘mitron’, there were more regrets. Saransh Desai, a partygoer, said, “I never thought I’d be listening to Modi’s speech on New Year’s Eve. I ditched my friends and girlfriend for ‘mitron’. They will laugh at me now. In fact, my girlfriend just texted, ‘You deserve it’.”
 The   at the venue was delayed by an hour in honour of the speech. Navdeep Bajaj, an IT executive who was waiting outside to enter, said, “Surgical strike, masterstroke, call it what you will, but Modi’s speeches never fail to surprise. Today’s surprise element was ‘sobriety’. My friend wanted free drinks, so he went to a restaurant, and he came back sober!”
 
