AURANGABAD: City-based activists of Students   (SIO) have dragged the ministry of health and family welfare to Supreme Court for excluding   language as one of the mediums for conducting the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET-UG) for the academic year 2017-18.

 The apex court has admitted the petition by issuing a diary number to it and the matter is expected to come up for hearing shortly. Substantiating the demand, the SIO has argued that Urdu is one the languages listed in Schedule VIII of the Indian Constitution and a large number of students study science in Urdu medium during 10+2 level.
 
 “In terms of number of people speaking a language, Urdu ranks sixth in India as the per the latest Census report. Not taking this fact into account, Urdu has been arbitrarily and unreasonably left out as a medium for the National Eligibility Cum Entrance Test 2017,” Mohammad Ali Shaikh, SIO public relation secretary, said.
 
 The Union health ministry in December last year had announced that the NEET-UG will be conducted in eight languages from the academic year 2017-18 academic. The languages include Hindi, English, Gujarati, Marathi, Bengali, Assamese, Telugu and Tamil.
 
 “The   and its implementation in regional languages is the outcome of the government's commitment of bringing about transparency in medical education and removing malpractices,” an official statement issued at the time of announcement had said.
 
 The   (CBSE) — competent authority for holding the NEET — in its notification further added two more regional languages Kannada and Oriya, taking total number of regional languages in which the national level examination would be held to 10.
 
 The SIO has also termed the omission of Urdu as “selective discrimination of particular language” by the ministry even after several representations being made to them.
 
 “The NCERT textbooks for class 11 and class 12 are available in Urdu, whereas such textbooks are not available in several other languages such as Kannada. The seventh most spoken language Gujarati, eighth most spoken language Kannada, 10th most spoken language Oriya and 12th most spoken language Assamese have been given as options of medium for appearing for the NEET, but Urdu that ranks sixth has been arbitrarily excluded,” the SIO has alleged, in its petition before the apex court.
 
 Maharashtra alone is said to have nearly 168 junior colleges wherein nearly 12,000 students undertake 10+2 level education in Urdu medium. The SIO has said that the Centre and the CBSE have not only deprived a large number of students studying science in Urdu Medium of equal opportunity, but have also denied the opportunity to pursue a career in Health Sciences and shape their lives as per their choice and interest.
 
 The NEET 2017 is an entrance exam conducted for candidates who desire to study any graduate medical course (MBBS), dental courses (BDS) or postgraduate course (MD/MS) in private or government medical colleges in India.
 
 The NEET for undergraduate (UG) is meant for BDS and MBBS courses and it would be organized by the CBSE. The NEET-UG has replaced the All India Pre Medical Test (AIPMT) and all other individual MBBS exams organized at the level of states or institutions themselves.
 
