BENGALURU: The decision of the JD(S) not to fight the   to the Nanjangud and Gundlupet assembly segments, which many   was to give an edge to the ruling Congress, could be a sign of a major political realignment in the state, which heads to the polls next year. 

 In choosing not to field any candidates in the bypolls, the JD(S) appears to have signalled its intention to have an unofficial ‘Gathbandan’ with the Congress, in a bid to stop the BJP, which is now looking to stake its claim in the south, beginning with Karnataka. While the ‘mahagathbandhan’ of the JD (U),   and Congress successfully checkmated the saffron party in Bihar in 2015, Samajwadi Party-Congress alliance fared disastrously in the Uttar Pradesh polls last month. 
 
 The leaders of both the JD(S) and the Congress are divided over the issue. “Not everyone in the party likes the idea, but there are tjose who think it’s a viable option. Their chief concern is to evolve an alternative to the BJP,’’ said a senior JD(S) functionary. 
 
 A senior Congress leader said that a tie-up with the JD(S) would not be a bad idea, in view of the ruling party’s eroding support base and growing anti-incumbency factor. “It’s impossible for Congress or JD(S) to stake claim to power without stitching together a pre-poll alliance, which seems highly improbable, or come together after the elections, as we did in the aftermath of the BBMP elections in 2015,” he added.
 
  However, a closer look at the 2013 assembly results would indicate that an alliance is more important to the Congress than the JD(S). Although the Congress wrested power from the BJP in 2013, its vote share increased by less than 2% in comparison with their performance in 2008 (34.59%). If the people across all assembly segments vote along the same lines they did in 2013, the Congress may end up with just 70 to 80 seats. The BJP leaders attribute the loss in 2013 largely to the split within the party, ahead of the polls, when BS Yeddyurappa and B Sriramulu quit the saffron party and floated their own outfits. While Yeddyurappa’s KJP lapped up 9.8% of the votes, Sriramulu’s BSR ended up with 2.7% of the vote share in the 2013 elections, denting the BJP’s fortunes. 
 
 Uniting the Ahinda and Vokkaliga vote-banks could foil the BJP’s plans to ride to power in Karnataka, said Sandeep Shastri, a political analyst. “It’s impractical for the ruling party. If it opts for an alliance ahead of the polls, it would be an indirect admission of defeat, which would give a psychological advantage to the opponent. Also, an alliance would be counterproductive since both the parties have a strong voter base in the same communities,” he added.
 
 “ Political dimensions vary from state to state. The Congress has performed well in Karnataka in the past four years under chief minister Siddaramaiah. We have fulfilled most of the promises we had made in our manifesto. We are confident of making a comeback on our own”
 
 - Dinesh Gundu Rao | KPCC Working President
 
 “The party is no mood to have to have any kind of pre-poll alliance with the Congress, as we are confident of winning on our own but the leaders should contemplate on having some kind of post-poll alliance in the event of a hung verdict. It’s not that we have are overwhelmed by the BJP’s performance in Uttar Pradesh, but this is only to give clarity on the party’s stand to the voters in the event of a hung verdict since there have been various speculations in the past”
 
  -- Madhu Bangarappa | President, State youth wing of JD(S)
 
