CHENNAI:   was chief minister for just two years. But in that time he set the standards for how a chief minister should function - a benchmark that his successors have had trouble reaching.

 Many old-timers told TOI that his cabinet meetings were lively with his colleagues participating in discussions and even opposing the   founder. “Anna did not change one bit. As chief minister, he remained the same person he was as a party man and Dravidian activist. He shunned all pomp, either on himself or on his office,“ said Annadurai's biographer  .
 
 At his house too, Anna did not want new furniture and other paraphernalia associated with a chief minister's residence. “He told his wife when new furniture was brought to his house that it may come now and go the next day when he ceased to be the CM,“ said  .
 
 It has become a custom for a new government to change officials soon after assuming office. “Anna retained most of the officials who were working when M Bhaktavatsalam was chief minister.
 
 Initially there were apprehensions within the bureaucracy about the working style of Annadurai. When he started his term, officials called him sir. Soon, they were calling him Anna,“ added Kannan.
 
 With regard to visitors at the secretariat, Anna gave preference to officials. “Anna did not make officials wait. The next in line will be opposition partymen, people and only at the last will be partymen and friends,“ said Kannan.
 
 Cabinet meetings held by Anna were lively and due to his short term in office he conducted only a few meetings. “The cabinet meetings were held professionally and there was space for opposition within this party ,“ said Kannan.
 
 Anna and DMK president M Karunanidhi were similar in their functioning but differed in a few aspects. “Anna was a little hesitant to admonish a party cadre or officials for some mistake but Kalaignar was spot on. Kalaignar would discipline the cadre or official at the spot and at the same time praise any cadre or official for any good dead. This is a major difference in the style of functioning between Anna and Kalaignar,“ said Kannan.
 
 “Anna and Kalaignar stuck to their ideals like legalisation of self-respect marriages and two-language formula. While speaking at the 1966 December conference of the DMK, Anna said the party wants to form government to save Tamil culture, Tamil Nadu and its people as nobody came forward to do so,“ said Dravidian historian Sangoli Thirunavukarasu.
 
 Of the 50 years, DMK has been in government for 21 years and AIADMK for 25 years. The state has been under President's rule for four years.
 
