NEW DELHI: They were used to drugs and went to   after being convicted of various crimes, including robberies and snatchings. But the life has changed drastically since — they are now role models for many young   addicts. 

 Over the past one year, 11 youths, who were part of a rehabilitation programme at Tihar, have stepped out of its premises and have been employed at two hospitals as ‘peer helpers’, said  , director general (prisons).
 
 These youths interact with teenager drug addicts and try to help them come out of this deadly habit by talking about the problems they had faced and how the disciplined life in   5, which is run by superintendent  , has changed their lives.
 
 “Five years ago, I couldn’t have imagined living a life without drugs and committing crime. Alcohol and drugs used to make me happy. Today, the table has turned and I am the person I never thought I would become,” said a 21-year-old student of Delhi University who was released five months ago.
 
 “Now, talking to the children at the rehab makes me feel good about myself and the work I have taken up. Pulling someone out of drug   is a huge responsibility and I am glad that I have been chosen to take it up,” he added.
 
 Six days a week, these youths come to the wards for teenagers who are trying to fight drug addiction. The youths are there from 2pm to 8pm, trying to clear the teenagers’ doubts and anserw their questions. 
 
 “Every day is different and every child has a different set of questions to ask. This reminds me of the time when I was enrolled into the de-addiction programme at Tihar. I too had questions like these children. They want to know the drawbacks of consuming drugs and how it would affect their lives,” said a 23-year-old. 
 
 “I still remember their shocked faces when I first told them about my term at   and how I landed up there. At the end of the day, four boys walked up to me and promised me they would quit drugs and that I am their role model,” he added. Recalling the past, he said he once broke into a house and ransacked it. Before regret could set in, he was already behind the bars. 
 
 The jail authorities said that for the first time, the recruitment rule for prisoners was modified to help them get well paying jobs. Each of these youths gets Rs 15,000, which is to increase every six months. 
 
 “Our past generally works against us. The jail authorities have made us who we are today,” said another youth who was jailed for committing more than a dozen snatchings across the capital. He is now completing his graduation from a university in Uttar Pradesh. 
 
 
