LUCKNOW: Anomalies in the voters’ list prevented many genuine voters from exercising their franchise across all constituencies in the state capital. In one case an entire colony of 120 people found themselves disenfranchised.

 Particularly shocking was the case of Ravidas Sharma of Sadar area, 87, who defied age and paralysis to go to his polling station at Harishchandra College in a wheelchair. His helper, Shanti, couldn’t get him up to the booth because the access ramp ended at a step about 20 cm high. It was impassable. Some policemen tried to lift him but to no avail. Eventually, he retreated. “I am not happy and feel low at not being able to vote,” he told TOI.
 
 In some cases, members of the same household were not allowed to vote while others in their family were. The only polling station in Niralanagar locality, Saraswati Shishu Mandir School, witnessed a lot of commotion through the day. Hundreds of people who have been living in the locality’s Sectors A, B and C for decades found their names missing from the electoral roll and were therefore unable to vote despite holding voter IDs, Aadhaar cards and ration cards from the same address.
 
 A resident of House No. 6/11 in Sector C, Jiyalal Balmiki, was one such person. While his son, Surendra, who stays in the same house, voted, Jiyalal was asked to leave the polling station as his name was missing from the voters’ list. “The list will be revised in September or October. Please come back with all the documents then,” replied the booth-level officer when Jiyalal insisted on voting. Deepak Aidasani, Prem Ballabh Purohit, Pooja Singh and Malti Yadav — all traditional voters at Saraswati School — complained of similar treatment. Pooja and Malti’s husbands voted.
 
 Government staff posted at Unity College, a voting centre in Hussainabad area which has nine booths, were also at the receiving end. Dominated by Muslim voters, scores of women from Ramganj locality complained that they found it suspicious that their names had vanished from the list. “I voted in the last two elections. In fact, my daughter Tajassum was able to vote on Sunday but I could not,” said Akhtar Jahan, a 54-year-old homemaker. Another resident of Rambagh, Shabina Bano, joined in: “What is the point of creating awareness if the district administration cannot handle the list properly?”
 
 Saifi Khan, a resident of Napier Road, would have been a first-time voter but his name was missing from the voters’ list. “I got all the formalities completed but neither did I get my voter ID nor was my name on the list,” Saifi said.
 
 “My wife died last year but her name is there on the list and my name is missing. Of the 12 members of my family, I am the only one who could not vote,” Santosh Kashyap said at Kalicharan Degree College polling booth in Thakurganj.
 
 Anam Khan and her sister, Zarka, could not vote in Malihabad. “This was my first chance to vote. Since I got married and will be shifting to Dubai, it won’t be easy for me to come and vote now. I am really upset,” Anam Khan said.
 
 “I was keen to vote, but it turned out to be a big disappointment since my name was missing from the list. Though I have a voter ID card, I could not vote,” said Asma Khan, a BSc first-year student at IT College.
 
 Still others had the same complaint. Asha Jaiswal, a registered voter at the Vishnu Narayan Inter College booth for several years, and her daughter Akansha, who would have been a first-time voter, found their names were not on the voters’ list. They returned home disappointed.
 
 Deepa and Anita Mukherjee were shocked that no one from their family had his or her name on the list even after several years of voting at the centre. “Officials are just sending us off with no alternative at all,” said Deepa.
 
 First-timer Ayesha Fareed Rizi reached her polling centre in   but was not able to cast her first vote. The rest of the family had their names on the list, but not Ayesha. “This is a denial of my constitutional right. Last year, when the names were being corrected in the voters’ list and new ones were added, my father had given all my details to the person concerned. Yet it has not been updated," she said.
 
 Saroj Ghai (58) looked very disappointed while sitting outside a private school in Aashiana . “I voted in the last Parliament election, and also in the last Vidhan Sabha election. But my name is not on the list of voters,” she said. “This will be the first time in 30 years that I won’t be voting,” she said, adding, “My daughter’s name is also missing.” Some of the voters here who suffered similar problems said they would boycott elections the next time round.
 
 Piyush Pandey, a KGMU employee who had gone to vote at a government primary school in Sarojininagar Vidhan Sabha seat, had a pathetic experience. He told TOI that his whole colony of exactly 120 voters had not been given slips by the Election Commission before voting day. “My name was missing along with the names of all the people in the colony,” he told TOI. “One hundred and twenty people could not vote. Who is to blame, the government, the administration, the commission? Is there a facility to lodge an FIR?” he asked the TOI reporter.
 
