NASHIK:   farmers from across the district want finance minister   to make financial provisions for importing new varieties of grapes. Farmers say grape export will double if new varieties are provided to the farmers.

 Moreover, farmers also want the Union government to upgrade old pack-house to enhance its cooling capacity. The demand comes a day before the Union government will present its   for the financial year 2017-18.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Jagannath Khapre, president of Grape Exporters’ Association of India (GEAI), said, “There is huge scope for export of grapes from the country. But we have old varieties of grapes and its size is also around 18-20 mm. We need new varieties if we want to capture the export market. We have also entered the market in China and there is also good scope for export, but we need new varieties with size up to 24-25 mm. We need those varieties that are sellable.”
 
 He added, “Our grape export may double in next few years if we start growing new varieties of grapes, but it is a costly affair. We need around Rs 40-50 crore for the same. Our grape export is only 5% of the total grape production. Hence, government needs to take measures and make some announcements in the coming budget to boost grape export.”
 
 Khapre further said that most of the pack-house in the district are over 10-year-old. “The government needs to be upgraded to increase its cooling capacity. There are around 85 such pack-houses in the district. Financial provision for the purpose is expected in the budget,” he said.
 
 “The government gives crop and term loan at an interest rate of 10%. It provides crop loan up to Rs 3 lakh at the interest rate of 6%. But the government needs to provide loan to farmers at an interest rate of 2% to boost agriculture sector. Moreover, post-harvest losses of vegetables and fruits in the country is close to Rs 1 lakh crore due to lack of proper infrastructure like transport, storage and cooling facilities. The government needs to focus on providing better infrastructure to avoid post-harvest losses,” said Manik Patil, president of Maharashtra Rajya Draksha Bagayatdar Sangh, Nashik division.
 
 The total area under grape plantation in Maharashtra is around 3 lakh acre, including 1.75 lakh acre in Nashik district. Maharashtra contributes to 90 per cent of country’s total grape export.
 
 The district is also known as the wine capital of the country.
 
 
