BELAGAVI:  , a   that can be used to produce a  , is likely to be introduced in Belagavi by the   soon. The technology is expected to come as a   to boost their dairy business and enhance profitability. 

 Dairy farming is a major supportive business of farmers in rural areas. There are about 14 lakh cattle and 15 lakh sheep and goats in Belagavi district. The animal husbandry department has facilitated artificial insemination of livestock at its institutions reaching all villages in the district. However, while artificial insemination increases pregnancy rate among animals, it does not give the option to produce male or female offspring.
 
  Farmers for a long time had been demanding the animal husbandry department to make sexed semen technology available in the region. 
 
 The method will give farmers and businesspersons a choice to go for male or female calves depending on their core business. While female animals are preferred by dairy farmers, males are preferred by those who want to enhance meat production. Earlier, in artificial insemination procedure, the ratio of female to male offspring was 60:40. Since more farmers are involved in milk business, the demand for female calves is on the rise. 
 
 Umaji Atiwadkar, who runs a dairy business said, "We don't want male calves as our objective is milk production. If we get a female calf, we ensure that the calf will grow up and start producing milk in three years. The department has been talking about this technology since the past two years. Now it should make the service available as soon as possible." 
 
 Dr A K Chandrashekhar, deputy director, animal husbandry department, said, "I attended a video conference with the government in this regard. The government is planning to implement sexed semen technique in some districts including Belagavi on a pilot basis. Once it is proved successful it will be implemented on a long-term basis and extended to all districts. The technique also helps in preventing cross breeding and promoting pure breeds." 
 
 
