Chandigarh: The Punjab and Haryana high court on Tuesday issued notice to the Union government and Punjab and Haryana on a plea seeking a thorough review of the “obsolete” Commission of Inquiries Act, 1952.

 A division bench of the HC comprising Justice Ajay Kumar Mittal and Justice Amit Rawal issued notices after taking cognizance of the public interest litigation (PIL) filed by advocate H C Arora. 
 
 According to the petitioner, the Commission of Inquiries Act, 1952 has become obsolete and useless, and it was being misused by chief ministers in a manner, which lowered the judiciary’s image in public. He said the CMs had been appointing hand-picked retired judges for commissions of inquiry appointed to investigate into any matter of public interest concerning the state.
 
 Submitting that the CMs do not consult the chief justice concerned, the petitioner stated that the consequence is that such retired judges are abused by political leaders as “men of the CM”. He referred to recent utterances of former Punjab deputy chief minister Sukhbir Badal, who stated before media on September 16 that two retired judges, who had been recently appointed to the commissions of inquiry by the Amarinder Singh government, were “agents of the Congress.”
 
 Such a tendency to make unrestrained remarks against retired judges is required to be curbed with a heavy hand, argued the counsel.
 
 Pointing out other instances of misuse of authority by the Punjab CM, the petitioner has contended that where the department of mining (headed by the CM) was involved, the CM himself appointed Justice J S Narang, a retired judge of the HC as commission of inquiry, a procedure which does not inspire the confidence of the people. The petitioner has also alleged that while the Punjab Lokpal, who is also a retired judge of the high court, is sitting idle, the Punjab CM is appointing other retired judges as commission of inquiry, which could hardly be justified.
 
 The petitioner has further contended that under the aforesaid law, the inquiry report submitted by such commission of inquiry is not binding on the state government. He also pointed out that report of such a commission of inquiry is required to be tabled in the legislative assembly, which is a useless formality and exposes the retired judge, who was head of such an inquiry commission, to unsavoury criticism because MLAs enjoy complete immunity for their speeches inside the House.
 
 
