From February onwards, a fine of Rs 5,000 awaits any   operating a public bus of the   ( ) if the vehicle gets stranded due to a technical snag for an hour or more.

 A senior official of the transport body told TOI that this was approved by the PMPML’s board of directors and will start from February 1.
 
 In addition, the official said penalties ranging from Rs 20,000 to Rs 40,000 await the contractors if investigations confirm that the buses operated by them were involved in accidents.
 
 “The maximum number of bus accidents and breakdowns involve buses that are run by private contractors. In Monday’s accident too, the bus involved was run by a private contractor,” the official said.
 
 Anant Waghmare, general manager (operations) of PMPML, said the idea of introducing stricter regulations in the form of fines and penalties was not only against private contractors.
 
 “The public buses run by them (private contractors) have around 130 to 140 breakdowns each day. As far as PMPML-run buses are concerned, the number rests between 120 to 130. If a PMPML-run bus has a breakdown, an investigation against the driver is undertaken and he is suspended or even dismissed. The problem, however, with private contractors is they don’t pay drivers enough, so they leave the job and are replaced by inexperienced ones resulting in accidents and breakdowns. We want to minimize it and think increasing fines will make contractors alert and hire good drivers,” the official said.
 
 Another official told TOI, “PMPML has initiated a system under which if the bus run by a private contractor meets with an accident, the contractor has to cough up a heavy fine if investigation finds the driver guilty. Furthermore, it has been said the driver will not get a job in any of PMPML’s services. If the driver is hired again by the contractor or hired by a different contractor running PMPML buses, the contract will be terminated immediately,” the official said.
 
 The official pointed out that special courses for PMPML drivers were also being arranged for road safety and security.
 
 —Joy Sengupta
 
