NAGPUR: Coming to rescue of a Thane-based man, the Nagpur bench of Bombay   held that a   married   should jointly share responsibility of maintaining their kids after separation.

 A division bench quashed down Nagpur Family Court’s order of November 30, 2009, where husband was directed to pay Rs7,000 for maintenance of their two kids. He was instead asked to shell out Rs5,000 for the purpose.
 
 “When the husband and wife are both working, it was necessary for them to contribute towards the maintenance of their children,” the court ruled.
 
 “If the couple is working on almost similar posts and if the family court was of view that son required Rs4,000 and daughter Rs3,000/month for maintenance in 2004, the judge ought to have directed the husband to contribute more — Rs4,000/month and wife Rs3,000. The amount Rs7,000 that was required for the children’s monthly maintenance, could have been contributed by husband and wife in proportion of 4:3,” the court added.
 
 After tying nuptial knot on October 26, 1997, the couple resided together for sometime. Two children were born out of wedlock. Soon differences cropped up between them and they parted ways with children preferring to stay with their mother.
 
 After passage of some time, the wife moved to the family court against husband for maintenance under Sections 18 and 20 of the Hindu Adoption and Maintenance Act, 1956. She pleaded that the husband earned over Rs20,000/month and therefore, sought hefty maintenance from him.
 
 Countering her claims, the man contended that she was also earning Rs15,000/month. He argued that he was required to look after his old ailing mother and, it wasn’t possible for him to shell out a huge sum towards the children’s maintenance. However, the family court rejected his plea asking him to pay Rs7,000 for the purpose. The wife also claimed maintenance for herself, but was refused as she was able to maintain herself being in service.
 
 The high court observed that both husband and wife are working on same posts of stenographers and their earning was also similar, though it was a possibility that wife may be getting marginally less salary. “The husband was working as a Grade II stenographer while wife as a Grade III. Therefore, there must be some difference in their, though it is not possible to gauge as to what would be exact amount. Admittedly, both children are staying with the wife after their separation. It would be necessary for the couple to bear children’s expenses,” the court said.
 
 
