Nagpur: Reflecting on the issues faced by Kashmiri Pandits in the Jammu and Kashmir, ‘Eidi’, a play presented at the 64th Natya Mahotsav Primary Competition organized at Kamgar Kalyan Bhavan, tells the story of a Pandit family and how their lives change forever due to the armed insurgency.  Roshini (Bakul Dhawne) lives with her mother (Babita Uike) and father Narayan Haksar (Parshant Kakkad). Haskar supplies paintings to a newspaper and often criticizes the violent Jihadi activities through his paintings. Things take a down turn when certain extremist elements decide to punish Haskar for his paintings. One day, some Jihadis raid Haskar’s home and kidnap him. They also kill his wife. Javed (Sachin Modhakwar), Haskar’s friend, then helps Roshini to escape form the city. Roshini, who is travelling in a truck loaded with Pandit refugees, finds herself in trouble when Jihadis attack the truck. Miracleously, she survives the attack.  As the story progresses, Rshini, who is on the run, meets Zarina (Nutan Dhawne) and Mohammad (Rajendra Tupe). The duo take Roshini home and promise her that they will return her to her parents on Eid. They also teach her Islamic values and culture to help her evade the extremists. On Eid, Mohammad sells one of Haskar’s painting which Roshini had carried with her from home to offer ‘Eidi’. Soon the Jihadis notice the painting and raid Mohammad’s home. They beat him and threaten to kill Zarina and Roshini. Then Mohammad tells them that he is the son of Narayan to save Zarina and Roshni’s life.  Mohammad sacrifices his life to save Zarina and Roshni and give his ‘Eidi’. Hemant Patil, Akshay Nalurwar, Aditya Galande, Suraj Rangari, Krishna Luthade, Servesh Jumde, Snehit Padhgilwar, Omprakash Gundawar, Dhiraj Bhatt, Ira Dhawne, Meghna Shingru, Mayur Rashettiwar, Akash Wadhyi and Sajay Mektirwar also acted in the play. Ajay Dhawane was the director, Sameer Penkar was the writer, Tejraj Chikatwar designed the stage, Mithun Mitra headed the lighting, Rahul Medpallikar composed the music, Meghna Shingru and Snehit Padhgilwar designed the costumes.  (Reporting by Shubham Nagdeve)