JAIPUR: Chief minister   took on the Opposition on Friday for terming the   "disappointing". With no announcements coming in her reply, expectations on additional inclusions in the Budget increased many folds for her final reply before the Budget is passed in the House. 

 During her reply on Budget proposals, Raje insisted that the budget was not just about numbers but reflected the aspirations and expectations of the people.
 
 Squaring up to  , Raje compared her government's three-year performance (2013-2016) with the pervious government's five years (2008-2013). Listing Budget allocations for departments, Raje claimed that despite constraints, her government had increased the budget outlay in all sectors.
 
 "These people (Opposition) are experts in making announcements. They do it without making provisions in the Budget. The intention was to gain political mileage and not to execute those works. Our government has not done this. We first made allocations and then carried out the work," she said.
 
 While lashing out at the previous government for not sticking to financial prudence, Raje maintained that her government had made sincere efforts to achieve set targets. She also questioned Opposition remarks on the state reeling under huge debt during her tenure.
 
 "Economic buoyancy and conditions were much favourable during 2007-2013 compared with the situation after that," she said
 
 "If our Opposition members are claim that there were funds available during their government, I wonder where that money has gone. They have not given a reply," she said.
 
 Reiterating that more work had been carried out in the past three years than during the previous five years of   rule, Raje claimed that the national highway network had doubled and 17km of roads were being laid each day connecting four villages. She maintained that her government was also completing schemes announced by the previous government.
 
 "There were many announcements made by the previous government which they never tried to implement. But we took it up on us and are now completing them without any discrimination," the CM said.
 
 Refuting the allegations of Congress MLAs that the government had not heeded to their demands, the CM listed out the schemes announced in their areas. Facing criticism for not doing much for unemployed youth, Raje claimed that her government believed in creating opportunities and not giving out doles.
 
