From the minutest to the mightiest aspects of our lives, music says something about everything. This evening, it will be about our grandest concerns and feelings, quite pertinently at a time when a host of nations seems to have taken a tyrannical turn. And so it is that, ironically,   the rebellious and   the subversive are dispatching two sovereigns to Mumbai:  .

 The pairing of the younger composer’s fifth and last piano concerto with the elder’s 41st and last symphony is a dream come true for lovers of Western classical music anywhere. Especially awaited is the Beethoven concerto, to be performed by the great  , along with the city’s beloved   (SOI) and its fine resident  . It is ironic that any work by Beethoven (1770-1827), an avowed republican, should bear the title Emperor. It was certainly not called so by the composer, but is believed to have originated with the work’s English publisher. Another theory is that overwhelmed by its grandeur during its Vienna premiere in 1812, a French soldier in the audience shouted, “It’s the emperor!”. The soldier’s allusion, if the story is true, would be to Napoleon. The work was composed in 1809, when Vienna was under attack of the French army. Beethoven’s home was in the line of fire and so he hid in the basement of another building. It’s unlikely that the concerto was scored in such circumstances and there’s evidence that it was indeed written in a nearby village, where Beethoven went to escape the “...drums, cannons, soldiers…”.
 
 The concert, on show this evening at the NCPA, was sold out almost a month ago. “This is the first time SOI has achieved this,” says the orchestra’s founder,   chairman Khushroo Suntook, who selected the high-octane programme. “The Emperor and the Jupiter have been my favourites, almost from childhood. They are supreme masterpieces. Mumbai should hear these great works. They are apogees of composition. For example, the last movement of the Jupiter (composed in 1788) is a miracle. It’s astonishing how Mozart (1756-1791) has combined the themes. And the sheer beauty of the sound…”
 
 Mozart’s last three symphonies, taken together, are said to form a grand unified concept, with the Jupiter’s last movement perceived as the finale for the other two as well. Again, the nickname for the 41st is not Mozart’s. In his younger son’s account, it is the contribution of a German violinist-composer, who saw that in the final movement Mozart was inspired by another composer’s symphony, The Fall of Phaeton (Phaeton is the ancient-Greek personification of the planet Jupiter). The name came in vogue 30 years after Mozart finished No. 41.
 
 The Emperor has been performed in Mumbai before, but has perhaps never been anticipated so much. It’s easy on the ear, but deceptively difficult for the performer: the great Arthur Rubinstein took it on rather late in his career. Its melodies, which are simple, seem to melt away, but listen closely and you will hear them develop into complex variations, assembling into a majestic architecture of sound. Its meaning could be political or spiritual, likely both, if not transcendental.
 
 “All the Beethoven concertos are such leaps ahead. These great composers wrote so many wonderful pieces. This one is so extraordinary,” says Stephen Hough, gearing up for his performance of the Emperor. “It’s the first concerto (in the history of music) where the piano is completely centre stage... There are elements of struggle between the orchestra and the soloist. It’s also interesting, because it’s a very non-tragic piece. There are almost no clouds in it. Normally, a piece, if it’s like happy all the time, becomes dull and boring; there’s not enough contrast. But this piece has incredible contrast, without having a huge range of different emotions... And it has moments of amazing serenity. I think of it as a very positive piece. It’s Beethoven in a good mood.”
 
 The concerto also represents one of the finest and most elevated examples of the victory of will power. It’s a work of astonishing gravity, from which radiates liberation. Of course, its sublime second movement was the natural choice for the epilogue of the outstanding film The King’s Speech.
 
 The Emperor is the only one of Beethoven’s five piano concertos which he never premiered. Nor did he ever play it in public. Because by then the great composer had gone almost completely deaf.
 
