After receiving flak from the   (NGT) for its lackadaisical attitude towards the heavily-polluted  , the   (BDA) began work on cleaning it. One of the first steps taken was to remove weeds from the lake, for which harvesters were procured from Mumbai. But, cleaning the heavily-polluted lake is turning out to be a far bigger task than imagined for the state government, which plans to seek more time from the NGT. Slamming the ‘drama’ surrounding the lake, experts say that the problem lies with how authorities are tackling the issue and that a lack of knowledge is turning out to be their undoing.

 “Lakes are living entities — we have to understand what’s going on before we try to rectify things,” says  , founder, Aikyam Communities for Sustainable Living. He adds, “Nature has a way of fixing things, so, for e.g., if you till land, you will find that weed will grow there — that’s nature trying to fix the soil. Our understanding of nature is very limited, because we pull out the weeds and buy urea; what we don’t know is that weeds are fertilizing the land for free. It’s the same thing with lakes. If there are pollutants in the water, weed will grow there — that’s nature’s way of rebalancing the water. The weed are actually purifying the water, but the authorities are only concentrating on superficial aspects and getting rid of them. If you want to solve the problem, tackle the actual issue. People are talking about setting up sewage treatment plants, but why should sewage reach the lake in the first place? We have an underground sewage system in Bengaluru.”
 
  
  
 
 Sandeep says that there are strict laws that direct that all industrial and residential effluents and sewage should go to sewage treatment plants, but questions why, despite this, it is being allowed to reach the lakes. “Who is in charge? Why aren’t the BWSSB, BBMP, Karnataka Lake Conservation and Development Authority or the   doing their job?” he asks.
 
 Harini Nagendra, author and professor of sustainability, says that the current method of weeding the lake is an expensive and wasted practice, which will have to be repeated every couple of months. “And that is probably why it is being undertaken — restoration projects are good economy for everyone involved,” she says. 
 
 Like Sandeep, Harini also stresses on the need for a better understanding of nature. “Nitrogen and phosphorous — the same components found in fertilizers — are present in the lakes, which comes from sewage. So, unless the flow of sewage is controlled, there will be plant growth. What is needed is the development of wetlands at lakes so that the plants soak up the nutrients, thereby naturally filtering the water. The large-scale removal of weed messes up livelihoods and disturbs ecology.” 
 
 
  
 
 Another issue, she says, is that the authorities don’t know what to do with the weed that are removed. “Many times, the extracted weed are not disposed of properly. They are either dumped on the roadside, where they lie rotting or are burnt. Fiber can be extracted from them, which can be used to weave mats and other items, providing livelihood. It can also be used as compost,” says Harini.
 
 
 
 Harini Nagendra, professor of sustainability, suggests low-cost, effective and sustainable methods to keep the lake clean 
 
 
