BHUBANESWAR: As Friday's daylight molestation and assault on three college girls on the Nandankanan road here has led to a huge public outcry here, police on Sunday arrested three youths in connection with the incident. 

 "Within 36 hours of the incident, we arrested three persons of a group, who groped the three girls and their male friend and passed lewd comments on them. Other men involved in the case will also be arrested," said commissioner of police Y B Khurania after the virtual rerun of Bangalore incident in Bhubaneswar triggered massive public outcry.
 
 The accused trio were identified as Madhab Kumar Rout, 22, Mrutyunjay Patra, 22, and Biswaranjan Pradhan, 21. While Rout and Patra belonged to Raghunathpur area here, Pradhan is a resident of Nandankanan area. At least seven of their accomplices are still at large, police said.
 
 The incident occurred around 3.10pm between Magnet Square and Raghunathpur when the girls were returning from Nandankanan zoo. The accused allegedly stalked them and passed lewd comments at them. 
 
 When the girls protested, the youths attacked them. The tormenters would have remained unidentified had the girls not shot a video, showing their faces and bike. 
 
 "We are happy that the police arrested three of them. But there is immense threat to our lives. The boys had openly threatened us of dire consequences when we were shooting their hooliganism," said one of the girls.
 
 The girls demanded suspension of some Nandankanan cops for their alleged negligence. All the boys would have been arrested on the spot had the police responded early. The PCR van reached the spot nearly 40 minutes after we called 100. Distance between Nandankanan police station and incident spot was barely 6 km. After reaching the spot, the cops gave the plea that their vehicle ran short of fuel. The girls were shocked that none from the bystanders came to their resque. "We were stunned at their response," another girl said. Police denied the charges of negligence. "We received the call around 3.26 pm. The PCR reached the spot at 3.40 pm," another police officer said. 
 
 The capital city had witnessed such a brazen atrocity on a girl on September 10, 2016, when a group of tipsy men kidnapped her and molested her in a moving car at Khandagiri. Police had arrested three men. 
 
