CHENNAI: With the centre gearing up to roll out the new indirect tax regime nationwide from July 1, the Tamil Nadu   on Thursday gave its nod for Tamil Nadu   to be introduced in its assembly. The cabinet also discussed lowering the guideline value for registration of properties across   and granting approval to unapproved land and buildings to be registered. 

 Once   is introduced in Tamil Nadu, the state government can increase its revenue through stamp duty and registrations. “All other items on which the government used to get revenue through tax will be subsumed under GST,” said a senior officer, seeking anonymity. 
 
 “The cabinet also decided to lower the guideline value so that registrations of properties will increase. Once the number increases, the government’s revenue will also increase,” said the official. There was no official statement on the meeting from the government. 
 
 On the cabinet granting approval for unapproved land and buildings, the official said, “This again will increase revenue for the government as registrations had slowed down after the Madras high court had prohibited unapproved plots from being registered.” Recently, the high court removed its ban on the condition that the government strictly followed the rule book in granting approvals for plots. 
 
 The meeting started at 3pm at the Secretariat and lasted until 4.30pm. Besides chief minister K Palaniswami and other ministers, chief secretary  , finance secretary   and commercial taxes and registration secretary   were present at the meeting
 
 Sources said the chief minister after discussing public issues, sent out officials, including the chief secretary, and held a meeting with just the ministers. “Palaniswami advised ministers to dissuade MLAs from meeting him regularly at the secretariat. Since Monday many MLAs have been queuing up before his chambers. Even on Thursday, an MLA met him,” said the official.
 
 The chief minister also spoke to ministers about his meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi in New Delhi and discussed with them the arrangements for the MGR centenary celebrations. 
 
