AHMEDABAD:   has deplored the prevalence of   where the accused, if rich and powerful, manage to fix police, and put up innocent people to be prosecuted in their stead. In a case where cops, with full material knowledge, implicated an innocent man for a fatal   caused by a rich car owner, who was a relative of the person falsely accused, Justice J B Pardiwala said that the high court had regrettably come across many such cases. In the instant case, cops had not only changed the identity of the accused, but had also recorded that a truck had caused the accident, instead of mentioning it was a car.

 “By sheer power of money and position, rash and negligent drivers are able to manage police, and at the end, an innocent person is fastened with the liability,” Pardiwala said.
 
 “The innocent person is either won over by money or pressure, or by any other illegal means. At any cost, this should not happen and such an act should be dealt with very seriously,” the court observed.
 
 The hit-and-run had taken place in   near Morbi town on September 26, 2014. 
 
 Ratilal and Rajesh Kasundra were returning from their field on bullock carts when Rajesh’s cart was hit by a speeding car. Rajesh did not survive the accident and Ratilal too sustained injuries. The two persons who were in the car, Dilip Gambha and Jagdish Kasundra, fled the spot instead of responding to Ratilal’s cries of help requesting them to fetch medical aid.
 
 When Ratilal approached cops and lodged an FIR, the cops, instead of recording the true story, wrote that the bullock cart had been hit by a truck (and not a car) and that Gambhva’s maternal uncle, Hareshbhai Bhimani was driving the truck without a driver’s licence. Though Ratilal continuously opposed the fabricated version, and told cops that Bhimani was nowhere near the spot at the time of the accident, the police remained adamant about shielding Gambhva.
 
 So, in the case of fatal hit-and-run, police began investigation on false information recorded against the complainant’s wishes. Ratilal, however, did not give up and continued his representations before higher authorities. Ultimately, the case investigator conceded that the vehicle that had caused the accident was a car and not a truck, but the prosecution continued against Bhimani, while police kept Gambhva out of the picture, according to details of the petition filed by Ratilal.
 
 Police went on to file chargesheet against Bhimani, who was innocent, and Ratilal moved the high court for transfer of investigation, while narrating the case details before the court.
 
 After hearing the petitioner, Justice Pardiwala castigated police for false investigation. He observed that it was not only the accused who can claim a right to fair trial, but the victim also had the same rights, and fair trial is possible only upon fair investigation.
 
 The high court has asked the crime branch to carry out further investigation in the matter and find the real culprit.
 
