The   of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike ( ) has been trying to streamline the process of rearing pets, especially large-breed dogs, in   and independent homes. The proposed guidelines call for registration of dogs, mandatory sterilization and vaccination, among others. While these seem apt in ensuring the welfare of pets, what has irked pet parents are the recommendations to curtail the number of pooches an individual is allowed to keep at home, with several big breeds added to the banned list of dogs. “What is more galling than the draft guidelines is the reported response of Dr G Anand, the Joint Director of the Animal Husbandry Department, that if you want to have more dogs, do so in an independent house, or give away your less loved ones. In Bengaluru, can you recommend that to dog owners?” asks   of the Cubbon Park Canine group.

 
 The BBMP, adds Priya, has worked it out all wrong. “Yes, these guidelines have been going around for a while. But what is appalling is that if you look at the BBMP Animal Husbandry site, their main job is animal birth control (ABC). They have other things to do like protecting animals and, managing slaughter houses, and pet registration, etc. But if you look at statistics, ABC has dropped by 98%, from 54k in 2015 to about 540 as of October 2016, which means that the department has failed in its primary charter. And you have the gall to respond to some apartment resident associations’ demand to restrict pets. Let them do their job first,” she says.
 
 
 Some of the proposed guidelines, though, are more than welcome, say activists. “A couple of things they are saying are right, with regard to hygiene -— cleaning up after your dog and maintaining its general welfare — and regulating breeding. The guidelines will get people to be responsible about the upkeep of their pets. In Singapore, for instance, you cannot have a pet unless it is neutered. Unless you have a licence 
 to breed, you cannot do it,” says Priya. Animal and environment activist Sowmya Reddy seconds that and adds, “I welcome the guidelines, unless there is a retrospective impact to them. What a lot of animal activists and rescuers are concerned is that they sometimes board more than the specified number of dogs, which is problematic. If someone has more than three dogs, there should be provisions for them to get all the dogs registered. Activist Anurag Verma believes that the guidelines will go a long way in restricting breeding of dogs like Siberian Huskies or St Bernards that are mountain dogs and not suitable for plains or, for that matter, Hounds or Great Danes that are supposed to be runners and are, instead, cooped up in small apartments.
 
 
 “There are Animal Welfare Board of India (AWBI) rules that have been reinforced by the Supreme Court, under which no one can ban keeping pets, or prescribe a number of pets an individual can have. Any attempt to do so will and can be challenged in court. The Constitution expressly says that you have to be kind to animals.” -- Priya Chetty-Rajagopal
 
 
 
 “The guidelines are yet to be approved by the BBMP and the government. The main idea behind the draft is that every dog is licensed, for which it has to be vaccinated against rabies. We are also looking at regulating illegal breeding and shift breeders from Bengaluru core zones to the outskirts. Even with a breeding licence, they will not be allowed to have more than 10 dogs at a time. Also, according to AWBI, no restrictions can be made on the number or breed of dogs kept in apartments. What our guidelines seek to do is ensure the welfare of dogs, with regard to their health, ABC, etc.” 
 Dr Sri Ram, Deputy Director, Animal Husbandry Department, BBMP
 
 
 
 Pets to be registered and sterilized
 Dogs to have micro-chips, a badge and a collar with the licence information 
 Large breeds such as German Shepherds, Great Danes, Rottweilers, Golden Retrievers, etc., to not be allowed in apartments
 Breeders to register themselves and not have more than 10 dogs at a time
 15 aggressive dog breeds like, Rottweiler, Pit Bull, Bull Terrier, German Shepherd, Doberman Pincher, Akita, Boerboel, Fila Brasileiro, Nepolitan Mastiff, Tosa, Dogo Argentino, Mastiffs and similar cross breeds must be muzzled all times when in public places
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
