HYDERABAD: The state is all set to celebrate the 64th birthday of chief minister K day of chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao in style on Friday. In an unprecedented manner, more than 6,000 archakas working in 11,200 temples across the state are to mark the day by conducting special pujas and homams. “To be performed on Friday are tulasi pujas at Vishnu temples, saffron pujas at Devi temples and sandalwood pujas at Hanuman temples. This is our thanksgiving for his decision to increase our monthly expenditure from `2,500 to `6,000,“ said representatives of Telangana Archaka Samakya.Thousands of purohits working in small and medium temples received a big relief after KCR increased their monthly remuneration under the “Deepa Dhupa Naivedyam“ scheme.

 They told TOI that thanks to the CM's decision, poor Brahmins working in temples are now getting two meals a day. They also hailed the state's decision to sanction `10 crore for a Brahmin Parishat and the proposal to construct a Brahmin Bhavan in Hyderabad. Similarly, exservicemen are planning to celebrate KCR's birthday by offering prayers at mosques, churches and temples and pray for the CM's long life.“He has doubled our pension from `3000 to `6000 and also allowed us to take two pensions, one from the defence ministry and another from the state government. We want to reciprocate his gesture by offering special prayers for him,“ said the ex-servicemen organizations here.
 
 On his birthday, KCR is all set to grant a gift to the Raj Bhavan staff who have been waiting to have their own accommodation in the city.
 
 The CM had participated in the ground-breaking ceremony for   for Raj Bhavan employees on his 63rd birthday. The project is now nearing completion and 152 ultra-modern apartments will be handed over to the staff. A school for the children of the employees and a community hall are also rea dy. The TRS party cadre too have big plans for their leader's birthday. While many of them have already announced plans to organize blood donation camps, some leaders have decided to distribute sweets and burst crackers in their constituencies. Scooter and motor cycle rallies have also been planned by city leaders.
 
 “Chief minister KCR does not like extravaganza on his birthday. He will have a puja in the morning and meet visitors at the camp office.There are no special programmes but there may be some announcements,“ said a close aide of the chief minister. Eight-time MLA and four-time MP, K Chandrasekhar Rao was born on February 17, 1954, in Chintamadaka village, of Siddipeta mandal in Siddipet district. He earned his masters degree in Telugu from Osmania University before entering politics.
 
