NAGPUR: “It is a great idea to bring together science and technological institutions on a common platform as so much of work is going on in laboratories that students and even teachers might not be aware of,” said  , additional director general of  , on Wednesday. 

 Rao was speaking after inaugurating the five-day 6th science exhibition organized by   (RSC) in collaboration with science and technology institutions. Such an effort will help bridge the gap between science and society, he added. 
 
 Present on the occasion were Rakesh Kumar, director, National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (Neeri), Nagpur, and N  , project coordinator, RSC.
 
 Addressing the gathering, Iyer said, “The objective of the event is to act as an interface between science and society. It will greatly help in creating awareness in society about research and development works being carried out in various scientific institutions that are part of the city.”
 
 The expo is showcasing scientific research and development taking place in 13 participating institutions from the city, like Anthropological Survey of India, Atomic Minerals Directorate for Exploration and Research, CSIR–National Environmental Engineering Research Institute, Geological Survey of India, Government Medical College and Hospital, ICAR–Central Citrus Research Institute, ICAR–Central Institute for Cotton Research, Indian Society of Heating Refrigeration and Air-conditioning Engineers, Nagpur chapter, Jawaharlal Nehru Aluminium Research Development and Design Centre, Mineral Exploration Corporation Limited, Nuclear Power Corporation of India Ltd, Mumbai, RSC and Regional Remote Sensing Centre.
 
 RSC education officer  , who conducted the programme, said, “Last year, about 54,800 people visited the exhibition. We have been getting good response from visitors as well as institutions who keep coming back every year.”
 
 The expo will be open to people between 11am and 5.30pm. Eight lectures by scientists will be held at the exhibition at 12pm and 3.30pm respectively.
 
