MUMBAI: The   is at it again. First, the   informed   spokesperson Sachin Sawant that there was no substance in his complaint about irregularities in large-scale procurement of various items by the women and child welfare department led by  's  . However, when Sawant recently invoked provisions of the RTI Act to know the status of his complaint, the ACB informed him that a comprehensive inquiry report into his allegations has been submitted to the state government and that the ACB would decide the future course of action following instructions from the government.

 Sawant had on June 24, 2015 lodged a complaint with the ACB saying there was rampant corruption in the department led by Pankaja. A similar complaint was lodged by leader of opposition and NCP leader  . From the ACB's first reply , given in December 2016, it appeared it had given a clean chit to Pankaja Munde, while from the second reply, it could be concluded that the government is yet to take a decision on ACB's report.
 
 A senior BJP cabinet member told TOI that the ACB had no doubt given a clean chit to Pankaja, but the home department has not officially conveyed to the ACB that its report has been accepted.
 
 In his complaint to ACB, Sawant had alleged irregularities in procurement of plates, water filters, chikki, biscuits, plastic mats, books, medicines, hand-made paper, protein powder and growth-monitoring machines. Sawant's contention was that all rules and regulations for procurement of these materials were flouted, no tenders were floated and the quality of material was bad. In fact, items were purchased from units which had been shut for the last several years. Dhanajay Munde too had made allegations against the department in the legislative council.
 
 On December 8, 2016, ACB's additional commissioner Keshav Patil informed Sawant that his complaint had been investigated and there was no substance in it. On March 24, 2017 Sawant invoked the RTI Act to know for himself the present status of his complaint and also sought inspection of documents. Assistant commissioner Rajendra   informed Sawant that following his complaint, the ACB had conducted a probe and submitted a report to the state. "There are no further instructions from the government. Once we receive directives, a decision on the future course of action will be taken, " Ranmale said in his letter of March 31, 2017.
 
 "From the two replies, I cannot draw a conclusion on whether a clean chit has been granted to Pankaja Munde or otherwise," Sawant said.
 
