Hours after a criminal was captured on early Morning morning in a shootout in Nehru Place, the news became the hottest topic of discussion among   and those working in Nehru Place. Delhiites could not get over the fact that they missed an actual shootout in their city and kept asking guards and vendors in the area for details.

 
 
 Talvinder Khanna, a student who has his coaching classes in Nehru Place, was too excited about the shootout to attend class on Monday morning. He said, "I just can’t believe that I have missed a shootout in Delhi. The other day, a friend told me about another shootout between two gangs that happened last week and it reminded me of the climax scene of  . We were discussing ki   badi filmy ho gayi hai. It’s thrilling just to stand at the place where a gangster was shot at. Who cares if he had a prize money of Rs 25,000 or Rs 25 lakh. It’s the thrill that matters."
 
 
 
 The guards outside hotels and restaurants told us that they were getting tired of the queries. Anil Sharma, a vendor in Nehru Place, told us, "The Metro commuters are really interested in knowing how the shootout happened. They keep asking if it was like they show in the movies. I have been repeating the same story since morning. Ab toh mujhe details yaad ho gayi hain, jabki maine toh kuch dekha bhi nahin."
 
 Tribhuvan Joshi, who works at a restaurant in Nehru Place, said, "I love action films. I really want to ask the cops how they did it, if it was a patrolling team, did they shoot with pistols? When I tried asking a cop, he snapped back, ‘Chor-police ka khel samajh rakha hai?’" The cops who were on duty during the shootout were not present to share their side of the story.
 
 
 
 Those who work in the area had a tough time explaining to their family on Monday morning that things were normal. Preeti Tripathi, a salesperson, said, "I work in a mobile shop in Nehru Place. They showed the news on TV and my parents thought that the area will be cordoned off after the shootout, and asked me to come back home."
 
 
