Gurgaon: Five under-construction buildings and boundary walls around 20 plots — all built illegally — were razed to the ground at Garhi Harsaru village on the outskirts of the city on Tuesday. The enforcement wing of the department of town and country planning, with the help of local police, freed around seven acres from unauthorised encroachments during the crackdown that continued for around three hours. 

 District town planner (enforcement) Rajendra T Sharma said the demolition drive was carried out in an unauthorised colony developed right opposite the primary health centre at Garhi Harsaru, located near Kherki Daula village. He warned land owners against any unauthorised construction in the controlled area without permission from the competent authorities.
 
 “This unauthorised colony was developed without obtaining any permission (change of land use) from the authorities. Hence, show-cause notices were issued to the land owners around 15 days ago under the Punjab Scheduled Roads and Controlled Areas Restriction of Unregulated Development Act, 1963. However, they did not stop construction, and thus, we had to carry out the demolition drive,” Sharma maintained.
 
 According to him, the locality also comes under the Control Area Act, under which no construction activity is allowed in the area without necessary approval from the town and country planning department.
 
 “Similar drives will be carried out in different pockets of the district in coming months to prevent setting up of unauthorised colonies. We want to spread this massage that illegal construction will not be allowed in any manner and at any cost,” said assistant town planner (ATP) Narendra Kumar. “We urge people not to purchase any plot or house at any unauthorised colony.” 
 
 To deal with the increasing number of unauthorised colonies, the department is planning to approach deputy commissioner Hardeep Singh, seeking necessary direction to check sale deeds in unauthorised colonies. “We will take up the matter with the deputy commissioner, urging him to direct revenue officials to stop executing sale deeds in unauthorised colonies,” said the official.
 
 
