GREATER NOIDA: Two prominent builders were booked in the past two days in Greater Noida on the basis of complaints filed by a few homebuyers for delay in construction of residential projects.

 An FIR was filed against Anil Sharma, CMD of  , at Bisrakh police station on Sunday on a complaint filed by a homebuyer, Shrikant Haldar, invoking sections 420 (cheating) and 406 (criminal breach of trust) of IPC for delay in possession of Amrapali Leisure Park, Greater Noida.
 
 Earlier on Saturday, a case was registered against Jaypee Infratech’s Manoj Gaur, Sameer Gaur and others for delay in possession of flats in Jaypee Aman in Sector 151, along Noida expressway. 
 
 The FIR was registered by 22 homebuyers, invoking sections 420 (cheating), 406 (criminal breach of trust), 467,468 (forgery) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of IPC at Knowledge Park police station in Greater Noida.
 
 Shrikant Haldar, who filed the case against the Amrapali CMD said the developer had started making Amrapali Leisure Park in Greater Noida in 2010. “The developer had promised possession of flats in 36 months. There was also an extension of six months for completion. The developer had planned to make 20 towers, each with 14 floors. We were told that nearly 4,000 flats would be completed and delivered in three years. However, the homes have not been delivered as promised though most of the buyers have paid nearly 90-100% of the total amount,” he said. Nearly 2,000 buyers registered their homes in the project, he said.
 
 Haldar said he visited the site and found that the developer had just completed the structures. “We do not know how much time the developer will take to deliver our homes. Whenever we meet the builders, they seek some more time for completion and possession. We are paying home loans and rent as well. We are in a fix,” Haldar told TOI.
 
 In the FIR against Jaypee Infratech, the buyers alleged that the developer had defaulted in delivering over 3,900 flats in the 26 residential towers in the Jaypee Aman group housing project. 
 
 Some said they were promised possession in 2012 but were not given it yet.
 
 The complainants accused the developers of cheating, misleading, mental torture and also flouting the corporate rules for delay in possession of flats. This is the second FIR against Jaypee within a month. Two weeks ago, an FIR was registered over delay in its Wish Town project in Noida.
 
 Abhinandan, circle officer, Greater Noida-1 said: “The cases have been registered on the basis of complaints of homebuyers. We are investigating the matter,” he said.
 
 “The Amrapali Leisure Park project was launched in 2011. The project fell in the 578 hectare patwari land whose acquisition was challenged by farmers. In May 2011, the project had to be stalled. All litigation related to the land was closed in May 2015 when the farmers settled for higher compensation. There are 2,200 flats at Amrapali Leisure Park. The entire structure is ready but because of legal hassles we could never get enough time to finish it. Over this, Noida Authority has slammed a huge interest on us. We can start work on this if the Authority waives the interest. If we are given interest waiver, we will deliver five towers every three months,” said Shiv Priya, executive director, Amrapali Group.
 
 On the FIR against their Aman project, Sameer Gaur, director, Jaypee Infratech said: “I have no idea about this FIR. I am not in a position to comment on this.”
 
 
