Anyone who has ever had a pet will know how they become an integral part of their lives. And their loss is indeed heart-wrenching. But what if you could have them in your living room, 24X7, even after their death? With some personal ‘pet’ projects,   Dr   aims to achieve exactly that. 
Gaikwad, the only practising wildlife taxidermist authorised by the government of India, combines five arts — sculpting, painting, carpentry, cobbling and anatomy — on birds and mammals to restore their bodily forms. Previously, he ‘injected’ life into animals as a vet and now, with the help of fibre, wood, wool, styrofoam, papier mâché and glass wool among other things, he uses his anatomical skills to preserve their memories. In a chat with BT, the self-taught professional talks about the state of this art, his vision for it and more. Excerpts:
 
 
 
 An anatomist and assistant professor at the  , Gaikwad’s interest in Taxidermy piqued while on a visit to the Prince of Wales museum, in 2003. “I realised that animal bodies preserved and mounted through the art of taxidermy, a British art, looked extremely realistic. At the time, I didn’t even know what this technique was called, even though I had studied anatomy. After intense research, I realised that the company making those specimens was only preserving animals and not birds, fish and other mammals. However, to me, their perfect anatomy was a case of love at first sight,” he elaborates. Thus, he started off with birds — chicken, to be precise — and eventually extended his art to fish and mammals. He took to mounting wildlife in 2006. “I left the syringe, needles and medicine and picked up the blade (for skinning) full-time. What consoles me is that I am preserving them even when they have no life left in them. This is my version of life after death and the joy of creation is inexplicable.” He adds that there are times when he is approached for private projects by people who want to preserve their pets.
 While he took up taxidermy on a case-study basis, former chief conservator of forest, Bimal Majumdar, gave him a blanket permission to restore any wildlife animal he wished to preserve. “And that’s how the taxidermy centre in   was founded — it’s the only one in the country,” he beams. 
 
 
 
 Depending on the size of the animal, it takes him anywhere between a month and a half to six months to complete the process. “This is because I do it alongside my day job at the Bombay Veterinary College, where I teach,” he explains.
 It’s a fascinating process — the cleaning of the animal needs to start within 24 to 36 hours of its death, else the maceration process (decomposition) starts. “External factors like heat, the animal’s age and health play a vital role too. That’s why, it is best to deep freeze their bodies,” he tells us. One wonders if working amidst these dead animals, the skinning and the stuffing and the mounting, ever freaks him out. “Not at all. I have done it for so long — studying their anatomy and expressions to keep the mount as authentic as possible, makes me immune,” he says in a matter-of-fact tone.
 
  
  
  
 
 While taxidermy is a lucrative career option and there’s enough scope in it, there aren’t too many resources in the country. “Nine out of 10 people don’t even know what taxidermy means. The first task at hand is to introduce people to it before it vanishes completely. I want to start a school but the basic infrastructure for that is missing. There’s not enough capital and resources. It is a vanishing art and I don’t want it to die with me,” he rues.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
