In a career spanning 14 years, Shayal Sheth has styled people from all walks of life and has made a name for herself in the industry. So, it surprises us when she says she landed in this profession quite accidentally. “I started my career as a features writer with The Times Of India and later worked with Radio Mirchi, all before the age of 18. One day, I had tagged along with my good friend, make-up artiste Cherag Bambboat, for one of his shows. I got a little involved and started making suggestions, which he and his team liked. He encouraged me to take up styling and I just jumped into the profession. I learnt on the job because at that time, there were no styling courses in India. In fact, styling was not even considered a career option,” she exclaims.

 Today, Shayal has an impressive resume. From styling for award shows and ads to music videos and reality shows, she has done it all. “I love to see my work on camera. That’s probably why I like taking up assignments across media. Recently, I styled the promotional video, 'Dum Dum' for a recent movie with  . I’d styled   for one of her first ever shoots in India and we had a good laugh talking about it when we were travelling together for an award show sometime ago. I’m also working with Shekhar Ravjiani of late and have been trying to give him a look overhaul on his TV show. He keeps joking that people have been complimenting him for his styling more than his judging now. It was also a lot of fun putting together Sunidhi Chauhan’s new look for a music reality show a couple of years ago and I have to thank the creative team for introducing me to her. 
 
 Everyone has different sensibilities and the challenge is to work with people, keeping their requirements in mind without compromising on your own. Shayal says, “I remember, I was styling   for a TV show and the makers didn’t like one of the shirts I had made for him, calling it a table cloth. But he ended up wearing that shirt during the intermission scene in Vicky Donor, and everyone loved it.”
 
 Shayal admits that now, she is known as the go-to person if you need things at the last minute. “I once got a shop opened at 3 am because a requirement was added and I needed a tennis outfit for a 6 am shoot. I’m glad the owner was accommodating,” she laughs, adding, “But, now, people think I can rustle up clothes just like that! I think like a creative director and am always looking at the bigger picture, which is why I am able to anticipate any potential issues. I’m able to bring alternate ideas, sometimes even before I’m asked for it.” 
 
 She continues, “Maybe my next career move has to be as an official creative director. Hopefully, it might be slightly less stressful.” With several years of experience behind her, Shayal is grateful for the fact that people have blind trust in her. “Till date, I’ve never had to ask people for work. Whatever I am today is because of my hard work. For instance, Nikhil Chinapa, whom I first met while working on 'Splitsvilla' a decade ago, called me up to say that I should style him for his 'Roadies' comeback. We hadn’t worked together for six years! The respect I have earned in this profession is the biggest payback,” she says. 
 
 The trust she’s earned is an even bigger point of pride, as she’s never relied on her close family connections in the fashion world. “Most people I work with don’t even know of them. It’s made things harder, but whatever I’ve accomplished, I’ve earned on my own,” she signs off.
 
  
  
 
