THANE: While the holistic planning of the old city continues to equip the   of   with each and every essential basic as well as recreational amenity, the multiplying populace here has turned this sleepy town into a bustling hub. 

 Replete with well-equipped   facilities, good civic schools, frequent and well-connected public transport and plenty of gardens, parks and community centres, this small ward that houses close to 51,000 people seems to be one of the ideal localities of the lake city.
 
 The Naupada health centre has all basic facilities that are to be given in an OPD, including a clean clinic and immunization counter.
 
 Busting the myth of bad condition of civic schools, the   school in this ward is a picture of perfection, complete with good classrooms, separate washrooms for girls and boys, a library and even a virtual classroom facility.
 
 “We have every facility, from easy transportation and markets, to lots of gardens, Gadkari hall, in our ward. We don’t have to travel far for anything. Even if we do need to get to far off places, there are dozens of buses plying from the railway station area to different parts of the city and even towards Borivli and Mira Road,” said Anjali Desai (35), a resident of Vandana Society area here.
 
 Agreeing with Desai, Arvind Sethi, a resident of Jambli Naka, added, “We even have adequate water supply and use water from our borewells on rare days of water cuts.”
 
 This being said, the sheer amount of encroachments of hawkers on the narrow footpaths here, coupled with the multiplying number of residents as well as commuters in the busy area has congested the small roads.
 
 While the area does need more   bins at proper and equal intervals, the facilities for garbage collection, cleanliness and waste segregation in this ward is far better than many of the other wards here. As this ward lies in the old city area, it has a well-connected internal sewage system that empties itself in the STP in Kopri. However, during monsoon, the garbage thrown by residents in the drainages chokes many areas, including Vandana depot area and Jambli Naka, thus resulting in sewage overflowing and flooding these pockets.
 
 While 66% of the buildings in this ward are said to be unauthorized despite paying taxes, a majority of them were probably constructed before the corporation was formed and remain to be registered for lack of valid documents.
 
 We have every facility, from easy transportation and markets, to gardens in our ward. Even if we do need to get to far off places, there are dozens of buses plying from the railway station area to different parts of the city
 
 
