NEW DELHI: The number of North Koreans who have escaped to   this year has dropped significantly, the latter has said.

 South Korea's   announced that the number of North Koreans who escaped to the South between January and August 2017 has fallen by over 10 percent from the year ago period, Yonhap news agency reported.
 
 780 people reportedly defected to South Korea from the hermit kingdom between January and August this year. This accounts for a decline of 12.7 percent as compared to the defections recorded last year. 
 
 Workers and farmers make up over 50 percent of this group, while soldiers and government agents make up around 3.5 percent.
 
 "Most people escape due to poverty, but we have to pay attention that in recent days, even those who have stable lives in   escape, while some even defect for their children's education," said Park Byeong-seug, a leader of the ruling Democratic Party.
 
 South Korea attributes the drop in defections this year to "North Korea's tightened surveillance over its people and reinforced security by   and Beijing along their borders."
 
 According to Park, "The Chinese government has put up signs near border regions warning of stern punishment for those who help or employ North Korean escapees."
 
 Interestingly, the number of defections from North to South was on an upward trajectory till 2009, when it touched 2914. After that, it saw a steady decline, dropping to 1276 in 2015.
 
 In 2016, this trend countered a break for the first time after   came to power in 2011. The number of defectors who entered South Korea in 2016 was 1417, a rise of 11 percent as compared to the previous year.
 
 Specifically, there has been a spike in defections from those in high places and those belonging to the elite class, including that of  , North Korea's former deputy ambassador in London.
 
  
  
 
 
 The reasons cited by defecting high-ranking officials include "disillusionment with the Kim Jong-un regime, longing for South Korean society and its liberal democratic system, and excessive pressure for loyalty contributions by the regime." Reasons also include "avoiding unreasonable charges and possible execution" for failure to "complete tasks ordered by the authorities," DailyNK reported.
 
 "Exposure to South Korean culture is slowly bringing the Kim regime down from the inside," The Star Online quoted former deputy ambassador Thae as saying.
 
 In fact, defectors have spoken about the spread of South Korea soap operas, or kdramas, in the North, and their increasing influence. The spurt of information about the outside world that these dramas bring into the North makes them a significant "influencing agent," the outlet reported.
 
 
 
