NEW DELHI: Feeling overburdened with studies, a 15-year-old boy left his house to spend a day at his friend’s place, but little did he know that the walk would prove perilous. He was kidnapped by two men, or so he recalls, brought to Delhi, and sold to people operating 
  .

 There are 14 other children like him, some of whom were kidnapped while others had left their houses. In a drive lasting 10 days, the Crime Branch and NGO Sathi   these kids and   them with their families. The children aged between 10 and 16 years belong to poor families.
 
 The children, brought to Delhi from different parts of the country, were found eating out of garbage dumps when rescued. Based on the description given by them, they were reunited with their parents, most of whom live in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar.
 
 “I had started losing hope of seeing my son again. I spent days wandering on the streets, trying to figure out where my son could be. Just when I thought all was lost, I got the news of my son being found. I’m feeling overwhelmed,” said the mother of one of the rescued kids.
 
 Police said organised gangs sell children and women as bonded labourers or sex trade, some to “satisfy the sexual lust of foreigners”. “The NGO approached the Anti-Human Trafficking Unit to rescue the deprived children. In the drive conducted around New Delhi railway station,   were rescued,” said joint commissioner (crime), Praveer Ranjan.
 
 The rescued children and their parents have undergone counselling. “The parents have now understood that they need to behave softly with their children so that they don’t run away from their houses,” said Akash Shukla, programme officer of the NGO.
 
 The father of a 10-year-old boy who left his house in anger and was trapped by the traffickers was overjoyed on seeing his son after a gap of almost a year. He said that he remarried after his wife died, but the woman was reluctant to accept his sons so they started living separately. “My wife used to badmouth my son. He got so upset one night that that he left home. My joy is unmatched now,” said the elated father.
 
 Another parent said that his son went for a joyride without telling anyone and landed in the wrong hands. “Even though my son was wrong to having left home without informing, I couldn’t blame myself enough for not being a responsible parent. We are lucky that we have found him alive,” said the parent.
 
 
