CHANDIGARH: Punjabi singer Gurdas Maan’s latest song “Punjab” has once again brought into limelight Shaheed Bhagat Singh’s role in the freedom struggle. But no one knows, or cares to know, about his four namesakes, who too had contributed to the national freedom movement in their own way.

 This fact emerged when Bathinda-based activist Harmilap Singh Grewal sought information under the   Act, 2005. Grewal had approached the President’s secretariat to know when exactly was the martyr acknowledged as one in official records.
 
 The “Dictionary of Martyrs” prepared by the  , published in 2012, focuses on freedom fighters from Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh, who were active in the freedom struggle between 1920 and 1947. It includes 15,000 names. 
 
 “While Shaheed-e-Azam Bhagat Singh’s story of happily walking up to the gallows is etched in memory of Punjab’s subsequent generations, the government has not done enough to acknowledge the sacrifices of his namesakes,” said Grewal.
 
 “If the government can give Rs 1 crore to the family of Sarabjit Singh, who died in a Pakistan jail, why is nothing being done for these martyrs? It is also surprising that it was only in 2012 that the Centre decided to officially call Shaheed   a martyr in its records,” he added.
 
 Three of the four namesakes whose details have been provided in the RTI reply gave up their lives while participating in the Akali movement or the Gurdwara Reform Movement in the early 1920s. The movement led to the introduction of the Sikh Gurdwara Bill in 1925, which placed almost all historical Sikh shrines in India under the control of the SGPC.
 
 Here are the profiles of the other Bhagat Singhs, whose details have been provided in the RTI reply.
 
 Bhagat Singh (Tera Khurd village, Amritsar): He was a cultivator, who in 1922 witnessed the Guru ka Bagh agitation of farmers. The supply of grains to Akalis participating in jathas against the mahant had irked the authorities. One day, while working in the fields, Bhagat Singh and his two sons saw a potmaker carrying grains hidden on his horses back to the gurdwara. Suddenly a police party reached here and started questioning Bhagat Singh. Despite his repeated denial of any involvement, he and his son were brutally beaten up. He died the next day on September 4, 1922.
 
 Bhagat Singh (Toda Khurd village, Amritsar): He actively participated in the Akali movement in Punjab. He joined a peaceful Sikh Jatha to Guru ka Bagh (Amritsar) in August 1922 against its mahant. The group was stopped and brutally lathi-charged by the police. Bhagat Singh sustained serious injuries and died a few days later.
 
 Bhagat Singh (Taava Khurd village, Amritsar): He too joined the non-violent Sikh jatha of Akali reformers to Guru ka Bagh in 1922 that was stopped and lathi-charged by the police. He died due to his injuries the following month.
 
 Bhagat Singh (Mabana village in Ferozepur): He volunteered to join the Indian National Army as Sepoy in the 2 Guerrilla Regiment. He breathed his last while confronting the British forces.
 
 
