NAGPUR : Demanding hike in  , the   posted in   of the state went on a two-day strike on Saturday. Tourism took a beating and at many places, protection staff was sent as guides on safaris with tourists.

 Coming under the aegis of  , the guides claimed that despite playing a crucial role in promoting wildlife tourism, they did not get due credit from the forest department. “With an increase in wildlife tourism, our work burden is also increasing. But there is no hike in our fees,” the guides said, adding that they “can make money only for three-four months in a year when tourist traffic is at peak”.
 
 The guides further alleged that though the state government had issued a resolution for 20% hike in their payments, the same is not being implemented by the forest department. “In Melghat, instead of Rs300 per trip, guides are paid only Rs250,” they said.
 
 The main demands of the guides include treating them as regular forest employees and a monthly salary of Rs10,000. They also demanded alternate work arrangements during rainy season when tourism is at a low.
 
 On Saturday, the tourism continued in the parks but according to sources, protection staff was deployed in place of guides. Rishikesh Ranjan, chief conservator of forests (CCF) and Pench field director, said that tourism was being managed with the help of forest guards and van-majoors. “While moving with tourists, they will by default do patrolling too. Tourists who did online booking won’t be send back. If staffers are available, we will allow spot booking too,” he added. 
 
 In Umred Karhandla Wildlife Sanctuary, around five tourist vehicles went for a safari at Karhandla gate, with van-majoors accompanying them. “22 vehicles have been booked online for Sunday and managing it would be a tough task for officials,” said Vidyadhar Uikey, a guide, adding that using protection staff for tourism was against protocol.
 
 Around 200 guides — 130 working in core and 70 in buffer — are on strike in Tadoba Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR). While the officials said that tourism was not affected as other staffers accompanied the tourists, guides said that the administration broke its own rules of sending tourists without guides. 
 
 “We are observing a peaceful strike but if our demands are not met in next 15 days, we will go for an aggressive road-blocking agitation,” said guide Anil Tiwade, who is the president of Tadoba’s guide union. 
 
