CHENNAI: In three days’ time, the registration for the Tamil Nadu Aptitude Test in Architecture ( ) will close on July 31. Anna University has released a schedule online for the test that will be held on August 12 from 10 am to 1 pm across six exam centres. 

 The test will be the entry criteria for admission into   seats under the management quota as well as government lapsed seats and is being held to fill the 1034   of undergraduate architecture seats across 49 affiliated colleges. While 3043 seats are up for grabs, only 2009 have qualified the National Aptitude Test in Architecture ( ). 
 
 As per the G.O issued on July 18, Anna University is conducting TANATA to fill this gap. University officials pointed out that the original cut-off score for NATA could not be reduced further to continue filling seats as that decision can only be taken by the council of architecture.
 
 TANATA is open for all, including previous year candidates, as long they fulfill the eligibility criteria, said Anna University officials. “If they have already qualified NATA, it is not necessary for them to again appear for TANATA. Those who haven’t cleared NATA can apply as well. The preference while filling vacant seats will be first given to NATA qualifiers, followed by JEE candidates followed by those who cleared TANATA,” said Prof Nagarajan, director of admissions. 
 
 For students to be eligible for TANATA, they must have secured 50% marks in 10+2 or equivalent exams with maths as one of the subjects; or 10+3 Diploma (any stream) recognized by Central/State Govts with 50% aggregate marks with maths; or International Baccalaureate Diploma passed after 10 years of schooling with 50% marks in aggregate and with maths as a compulsory subject of examination.
 
 However, the mode of admitting students who have cleared TANATA, whether through merit based counselling or direct application, is yet to be finalised.
 
 The exam centres are Chennai, Coimbatore, Madurai, Tiruchirappalli, Tirunelveli and Salem. For more details and applications, log on to www.annauniv.edu/tanata2017. 
 
 The general counselling for B Arch seats meanwhile will be conducted on August 19 and will consider scores of NATA 2016 or NATA 2017 along with plus two examination marks.
 
