Imagine you’re an   or a designer, a consultant or a contractor, who is able to find clients and land projects minus the usual hassles, and without any time wasted. Well, that’s exactly what   can help you achieve. This one-of-a-kind Gurgaon   allows professionals in the  ,   and   ( )   to share their portfolios, of products and services, on a ‘cloud’. 

 Launched globally in Singapore last year, iSticker is available in seven languages – French, Italian, Japanese, Mandarin, Russian, Spanish and English. Sharad Kohli asked Chetan K Singh — a senior interior designer, and inventor, founder and CEO of iSticker — how he has been able to connect AEC professionals across borders.
 
 
 
 
  As a senior designer at Venire (an interior designing firm), I would be struck by the day-to-day problems that wasted our architects’ time and cut into earnings. We spent a lot of time in follow-ups, e-mails and phone calls with product vendors and clients, for frequent changes in product selection.
 
 When I was working on my projects, my team would wade through libraries, websites, magazines and our own knowledge base to search for the right products. We did not have the time to manually scan through these data sources. So I felt that the true integration of an architect’s need and the product’s capabilities never happens. Even if a product is the best-fit for the need, the architect may not be aware of it and the manufacturer loses a potential sale. Hence, iSticker was conceived.
 
 
 
 
 Indian architects and interior designers spend endless hours collating products and design-related information for their projects, so iSticker helps save time by quickly selecting products in different projects and making ‘mood boards’, cost estimates and client reports available at a click.
 
 Also, industry firms and professionals in India don’t get due recognition for their creativity. iSticker will provide exposure to designers and architects, where their work will be visible to thousands of other users around the world.
 
 
 
 
 Architects are good designers but mostly unsuccessful marketers. Hence, acquiring new projects is always a challenge. Similarly, sellers who are mostly SMEs face resource constraints in marketing themselves. When an architect is selecting products, the seller is unaware, and when an architect is searching for a product, he doesn’t know the seller exists. iSticker helps connect Indian designers with global product manufacturers, and Indian SME manufacturers with global designers. Further, the platform helps Indian architects and interior designers to collaborate with international designers.
 
 
 
 
 Since thousands of global products are listed on iSticker, designers and builders in Gurgaon get the opportunity to choose new designs and products. This helps them build their projects with still better creativity. The city brings a skilled and innovative technical team to iSticker, and helps us connect with the best designers and builders. Everyone benefits.
 
