NAGPUR: “Prime Minister   has a corporate and centralized style of functioning which led to many development projects taking shape,” said Nilanjan Mukhopadhyay, a journalist and writer from New Delhi, on Saturday.

 Sharing his experiences during a lecture on ‘Narendra Modi: From CM to PM’, organized by Hedgewar Vyaspeeth as part of Dnyanyoddha series at   of Dharampeth Mulanchi Shala, Mukhopadhyay said, “Modi has the reputation of a go-getter. He has a heroic personality, but, at the same time, he courts controversies as a result of various decisions he takes.” This remark was perhaps directed at the latest ban on currency notes of Rs500 and Rs1,000 denomination to flush out black money. 
 
 Tracing the political journey of Modi, Mukhopadhyay said, “During an interaction with him when he was the chief minister of Gujarat, I asked him about his priorities to which he said that social sector needed a push. He launched a series of developmental schemes and made the state vibrant.” Modi as the chief minister felt that paper work consumed a lot of time which he reduced gradually. Therefore, it is no surprise when Modi as the prime minister is going ahead with his digitization plans, he added.
 
 Modi effectively implemented infrastructure development schemes in Gujarat which no other minister had worked on, Mukhopadhyay said. At once, Mukhopadhyay said, he asked Modi how would he cope with the pulls and pressures of politics. To this, Modi made no bones about the influence of   (RSS) on him and said that being a true volunteer, he would face no difficulties as he knew well human resource management, Mukhopadhyay said. This is the reason he tells the nation with pride that he used to sell tea. But this did not come in his way to go up the ladder in politics, he added.
 
 Mukhopadhyay also dwelt at length about the ambitions of Modi and said that from his student days he was active in   and took up cudgels against corruption.
 
 Talking on challenges Modi might face in the next couple of years, Mukhopadhyay said, “The Prime Minister will have to take a call on how to effectively handle Pakistan. He also should unveil some big plans before the 2019 parliamentary polls so that he could retain the power.” 
 
 (Reporting by Konika Miglani)
 
