NASHIK: The State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission’s bench here is functioning for over a year now, but without an   of its own.

 Worse, no one knows when the office will come up as the district administration is yet to take a decision. The   of the State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission was started in Nashik, Kolhapur, Pune and Amravati simultaneously. The idea was that consumers need not rush to the Mumbai or Aurangabad circuit benches of the panel. 
 
 Any person unhappy with the decision of the district   can challenge its verdict in the circuit bench. 
 
 “The bench in Kolhapur has a building from where it can function. The facility in Pune also has its space. But the bench in Nashik is still functioning from consumer forum’s premises. The district collectorate and the revenue commissionerate have still not decided on the space,” a senior officer with the consumer forum said on condition of anonymity.
 
 There’s always a huge rush during hearings at the circuit bench, causing much inconvenience for the functioning of the district forum. As result, the forum meets in the library when the circuit bench conducts its hearing for 15 days in a month. 
 
 The office of the consumer forum is tucked in one corner of the district collectorate in the erstwhile   (Small Savings Bhawan) near the sub-divisional office, Nashik.
 
 “There is no dearth of funds for construction of the building. But for that we need land. A plot is available on the premises of collectorate itself,” the officer said.
 
 “The office of the Civil Defence Services ( ) can be demolished and a new building can be constructed to accommodate both the consumer forum and the circuit bench. We do not need any financial assistance from the state government. All that we need is land,” he said.
 
 The officer said the lawyers had requested the administration to resolve the issue. Sources in the district administration hinted that the circuit bench could be housed on the district court premises as the latter would get additional 2.5 acres of land from the police department. “Senior district authorities will be deliberate on the issue and take the final call,” an official said. 
 
 Till then, the bench has to function from the small office of the consumer forum. 
 
