MUMBAI: After more than a year of inaction by civic authorities to fix the lacunae at the   of M T   in  , the   ( ) has cancelled the bank’s licence. Activists are livid that citizens in the eastern suburbs have lost a significant blood facility because of the BMC’s indifference to procure equipment or hire manpower. 

 Data shows that nearly 100 litres of blood was wasted in the Mulund blood bank between 2012 and 2014. 
 
 In an RTI response, the FDA said the blood bank was first served a notice in December 2015, and given ample time to fill positions and procure testing apparatus. The shortcomings at the bank were first pointed out in 2014, when the FDA had even asked it to suspend operations till all appropriate safety requirements were in place. But, in 2015, the FDA found out that the bank continued to function. It not only collected blood from other banks and issued units, but stored tested and untested blood in the same refrigerator. At that time only one refrigerator was functional at the bank, the FDA had pointed out.
 
 The FDA had issued the first showcause notice in March 2016, for violation of several sections of the Drug and Cosmetics Act. It had asked the BMC to fill up the positions of the blood transfusion officers (BTO) and technicians. The bank did not have a medical officer or BTO working there since November 2014. Also, the ELISA reader, which is necessary to complete testing blood samples for HIV and other infectious diseases, was not working. “We had suggested, on several occasions, that the blood bank should be converted into a storage centre, but that too was not done,” said a senior FDA official.
 
 In the past, it was alleged that the bank did not carry out blood donation camps. An RTI activist, who had lodged a complaint to the FDA, claimed the bank had wasted ‘precious’ 15 litres of blood, most of which was borrowed from other banks. 
 
 A doctor from Agrawal Hospital said patients are referred to nearby blood banks, such as KEM and Sion, whenever there’ s a requirement. “We also have an arrangement wi-th Arpan blood bank to provide blood to our patients at a su-bsidized rate,” the doctor said. 
 
 Medical superintendent of Rajawadi Hospital Dr Vidya Thakur, who is overseeing the functioning of Agrawal Hospital, said she will look into the issue. Last year, the blood ban-ks of almost all major BMC hospitals, including KEM, Sion and Bhabha, had faced FDA action for lack of staff and inadequate testing facilities. 
 
 
