LUCKNOW: Graduates from other   aspiring to pursue masters from   have bigger chance to get a seat. Scrapping the provision where 80% of PG seats were reserved for LU students and only 20% for graduates of other universities, LU will now offer 50% seats in PG   for in-house students. LU has 5,200 seats in 119 PG courses. 

 The new rule that will be applicable for all PG courses from academic session 2017-18 was decided to be implemented in the light of high court’s direction which set aside the ordinance for admissions to LU’s LLM course, in which 80% seats were reserved for its own law graduates. On the directions of the court, the university will re-frame the ordinance, said spokesperson N K Pandey, an LU professor. The 80% rule put students from other universities to disadvantage.
 
 The order passed by Justice   came on a writ petition filed by an LLM aspirant. The petitioner had questioned the validity of the ordinance for admission to LLM course as it provided that 80% seats would be filled by LU law graduates. The petitioner pleaded that Supreme Court provided institutional reservation could be permitted only up to 50%. 
 
 Three years ago, G B Pattanaik, then vice-chancellor of LU scrapped this criterion in order to attract the best of talent from across the country. Due to non-amendment of the ordinance, the new rule could not be implemented. This decision was rescinded by new vice-chancellor S B Nimse, who continued with the 80% reservation to LU students in PG admissions.
 
 
 
 
 1. Candidate should have 45% marks in graduation. For, SC/ST candidates, the pass percentage is 40%. For LLM, minimum requirement is 50% (48% for SC/ST) 
 
 2. Of the total number of seats in any subject, 80% candidates passing graduate examination from LU will be admitted
 
 3. Only 20% seats will be reserved for candidates of other universities. In case seats remain vacant, they will be filled by LU graduates in order of merit
 
 4. Candidates’ choice of subjects in MA, MSc, MCom will be restricted to one of the subjects taken in part-III examination for bachelor’s degree
 
 5. Candidates obtaining 55% or more marks at graduate or qualifying examination will be entitled to get admission to other subjects not studied at graduate level. Admissions of such candidates in any subject shall not exceed 10% of the total seats
 
 6. Candidates can’t pursue two PG courses simultaneously
 
 7. Candidates who have already completed PG in one subject will not be eligible for the second PG course. But he/she is eligible for any professional course
 
