THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Citing health concerns and threat to wildlife, a section of   have opposed the use of antlers of deer and antelopes in the preparation of drugs, mostly aphrodisiacs. Public sector ayurvedic drug manufacturing firm Oushadi has sought the state government's permission to prepare drugs using deer antlers. The government has forwarded the request to the central wildlife board for its approval.
 
 Scientists indicate that deer antler extracts, used as muscle enhancers and an aphrodisiac, contain protein based-steroids in the form of growth factors IGF-1 and IGF-2. and improper use of such growth hormones may increase the risk of prostate cancer.
 
 Studies regarding use of deer antlers in Chinese medicine, as sex stimulants, had indicated that it has led to suppression of natural hormones, elevates oestrogen and progesterone levels and causes liver damage.
 
 State wildlife board member and scientist Sainudeen Pattazhy had requested the chief minister to seek expert opinion from   (ICMR) before permitting its use. “It has been learnt that the chief minister had given nod to use antlers in drugs. If animal products are encouraged by the government for medicine preparation it would eventually result in poaching," he said.
 
 Senior ayurveda physician Dr   said, “Use of deer antlers and other animal extracts in preparing aphrodisiacs by the Chinese is known to many , but I do not believe in such a practice because it is part of many fraudulent activities." 
 
 Kerala University of Health Sciences pro-vice chancellor   said that Rasasastram, a branch of ayurveda, involves the use of chemical extracts and minerals from horns of animals for medical preparation.“Minimal use of such natural steroid extracts can be considered as it is not known to cause any serious health hazard.But it should not be used as a bait to kill animals," he said.
 
 Noted green activist and poet Sugathakumari said, “It is against the   1972 and the central wildlife board will not permit such an act. Already , biodiversity and forests are dwindling due to lack of proper implementation of rules," she said.
 
 Refuting the claims, Oushadi managing director K V Uthaman said, “Though Oushadi has sought legal permit from the government to collect the antlers shed by deer and antelopes in zoos, the government has not given the nod," he said.
 
