The day starts with the daily laughing exercise with all the housemates in the garden area. Snehan,   and Harthi are in discussion about Ganesh and Namitha's behaviour of talking too much about hygiene, but not following themseleves. Meanwhile Ganesh and Raiza talk about people not appreciating others cooking food.   shares about her family, her life of how she became a nurse and Jallikattu protest with   while cooking lunch. 
 
  
 Arav, Shakthi and Oviya are having fun with Arav and Shakthi imitating Rajinikanth and Mammotty from the film 'Thalapathi'. Oviya is enjoying their conversation and mimicry. Meanwhile during lunch, Arav and Shakthi raise an issue with Julie and Raiza that Oviya cooking food for herself alone and eating is not good. While Julie talks about it with Namitha around, she accuses Julie of also having too much of sweets. 
  
  
 The luxury budget task continues into the fourth day and each contestant is assigned a particular star like whom they dress up and dance for the songs. At the end of the task, Ganesh chooses   as the best performer who would be contesting for the captain's position with Shakathi. 
  
  
 During the day, Namitha seems to have cracked Julie's strategy to gain footage and win over the audience to stay in the game. She claims that Julie cunningly goes close to the stage when others perform and she also dance along so she could also been seen on the screen during the telecast of the show. Namitha figures out that this a stratergy that she is following to be prominent in the   house and also calls her energy vampire. She discusses the same with Ganesh, who in turn conveys it to Julie in a polite manner and asks her to stop doing the same. 
  
  
 Later in the day, the housemates discuss on what they should order with their luxury budget. While Namitha suggests to get some snacks including cookies, biscuits and ice cream, Shakthi opposes for snacks and suggests it is not required and votes to buy chicken. Finally, the luxury budget shopping is done by a task where Shakthi, who is blind folded breaks open wooden pots with the items written on paper inside it. 
  
  
 
