Amritsar: Taking pot shots at the state’s first Bus Rapid Transit System (BRTS) in Amritsar, calling it a political stunt of the previous SAD-BJP government, local body minister Navjot Singh Sidhu on Sunday said the Congress government would rejuvenate the project with PPP mode.

 Sidhu also held a meeting with local MLAs and party leaders to discuss various development works of the holy city. Talking to media persons Sidhu said the BRTS failed due to poor planning. Adding that Rs 400 crore out of the allotted Rs 600 crore had already been spent, the government would introduce sixty buses of the city bus service. 
 
 Sidhu also informed that the government had chalked out a plan to tackle traffic congestion in consultation with local MLAs. The plan includes construction of new roads, under bridges, a new bus stand for long route buses among others in the holy city. 
 
 On waste, he said the government would try to install solid waste management plants in Amritsar, Bathinda and Jalandhar for which 100 to 200 acres of land would be made available. Expressing concern over the depleting green cover, Sidhu said the government would plant ten lakh saplings in the monsoon in Amritsar. He said the government would also ensure every house owner pledged to plant two plants while applying for approval of building plan. 
 
 Sidhu also harped on the the new advertisement policy that could fetch over Rs 200 crore annually. He claimed all projects of the city would be completed in six months. Amritsar Lok Sabha MP Gurjit Singh Aujla announced a grant of Rs 50 lakh from his MPLAD funds on the occasion. 
 
 Stating that Congress government was getting third party audit of the amount spent on the development works carried out during the ten years of the SAD-BJP government, finance minister Manpreet Badal on Sunday said anyone found guilty of beyond the rule spending of state’s exchequer would be handled stringently. He said following the implementation of GST, the state government would get 14% share of taxes from the Central government adding to the state’s revenue. 
 
 
