NEW DELHI:   Home Minister   on Saturday said that a probe will be initiated on assault of   director   while shooting a film in Jaipur's Jaigarh fort.

 "Any action on personal level is not right. Probe will be initiated in the matter," Kataria told ANI.
 
  
  Kataria, who is two-time BJP minister, also said that the anger in such cases is instinctive but "shouldn't be done outside purview of the law." 
 
 
  On Friday, National Award-winning film director Sanjay Leela Bhansali was slapped and assaulted in the pink city on the sets of his film - Padmavati
 The mob comprising Karni Sena members alleged that Rajasthan's history was distorted in the movie.
 
 Hundreds of Sena protesters breached security arrangements and stormed the fort at noon, raising slogans against the director and his under-production movie. They then attempted to stop the shoot by vandalising the movie set. While the film crew and the producer's private guards tried to stop the protesters, one protester pulled Bhansali by the hair and slapped him. 
 
 "Bhansali's private security guards formed a ring around him to safely escort him out of the chaos. The crew dialled the police helpline number and the Amber police reached the spot," a police official at Amer police station said.
 
 "The movie depicts love scenes between   of Chittor and Alauddin Khilji. This is an outrageous distortion of Rajasthan's history as Rani-ji immolated herself along with the other women of the fort when they heard that Khilji was marching ahead to take over the fort," Karni Sena state president   had said, adding that "jauhar (self-immolation)" by the queen of Chittor was an act of bravery that was "well-established" in the state's history books.
 
 "We will not allow anyone to peddle lies and cheat with the honour and dignity of idols at any cost (sic)," he said.
 
 Meanwhile, Police have arrested five protesters under CrPC Section 151 (arrest to prevent the commission of cognisable offences). 
 
 According to the police, Bhansali did not complain about any incident where he was roughed up.
 
