CHANDIGARH: Chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Saturday unveiled his latest book celebrating the role of Sikh soldiers. The audience was a mix of politicians, journalists, war veterans and a bit of Bollywood. The event concluded with the promise to hold a literature fest on defence history and build memorials for heroes of the battle at Saragarhi.

 The book titled “The 36th Sikhs in the   Campaign 1897-98 – Saragarhi and the defence of the Samana forts” is a homage to the 21 men of the 36th Sikhs, who, led by  , laid down their lives while fighting. The book revolves around the lone 22nd man, generally known as Dad, who also died fighting during the battle. 
 
 Actor Randeep Hooda will play the role of Hav Ishar Singh in a movie on the Saragarhi battle to be directed by Rajkumar Santoshi. Hooda, who was dressed as the Sikh soldier, said he had spent 10 months to get under the skin of the character. 
 
 “It was a battle of collective bravery. While there are many books and articles on the Battle of Saragarhi, the Tirah Campaign, had remained obscured. I wanted to share the story of Tirah, and in particular the story of Dad – the 22nd man, whose name or religion remains unknown till date and about whom even the source of his origin remains unclear except that he came somewhere from Naushera,” said Amarinder, who completed the book during the peak of his election campaign.. 
 
 Amarinder gave a sneak peek into the book in the form of a presentation. It was followed by a panel discussion that focussed on the barbaric tribal mindset of Afghanistan. Senior journalists Shekhar Gupta and Vir Sanghvi, and Brigadier   of the   participated in it. 
 
 The proceeds of the book, launched in the 120th year of the battle, will go the Ludhiana Welfare Association for decapitated soldiers, orphans and widows.
 
 LIT FEST OF WAR HISTORY
 
 Governor V P Badnore presented a copy of the book, along with a picture, to the General Office Commanding-in-Chief Lt Gen Surinder Singh of the Sikh Regiment and Deputy Chief of the Army Staff  , also of the Sikh Regiment, besides other senior army officers.
 
 STORY OF VALOUR
 
 The battle, which took place on 12th September 1897, was fought by a small platoon against 8,000 tribals. “These valiant men fought for six hours and 45 minutes. They chose death rather than surrender,” he writes in his book. “These men knew it was their last day on earth, but refused to give up,” he added. 
 
