PATNA: Faculty crunch has hit teaching in several constituent colleges of Magadh University ( ) located in Patna district.

 M D College at Naubatpur, located on the outskirts of the state capital, is a case in point. The college has around 1,200 students in arts and science streams.
 
 “There are only five teachers to engage arts classes and, worse, there is no teacher to engage science classes,” M D College principal Kanhaiya Prasad Sinha said, adding at least 22 sanctioned posts of teacher are vacant in the college.
 
 According to Sinha, even the financial health of his college is not sound as the government has asked constituent colleges to admit girls without collecting any fees from them.
 
 Notwithstanding the odds, the college has introduced online admission process. It also issues college leaving certificate to students online.
 
 Around 900 users are registered with the WiFi connectivity at the college, the principal said, ruing the faculty crunch has deterred the college from applying for NAAC gradation.
 
 R L S Y College at Bakhtiarpur is also facing shortage of teachers. Physics, chemistry, mathematics, botany and Hindi departments do not have any teacher. The college has 46 sanctioned posts of teacher whereas only 15 are working currently, said college principal Pravin Kumar.
 
 More or less similar if the story of R K D College at Kankerbagh, which imparts teaching in commerce stream at undergraduate level. There is not even a single commerce teacher in the college, and the college administration is getting classes engaged by teachers from outside, college principal P K Verma said.
 
 RPM College at Patna City is facing shortage of teachers in mathematics, physics, chemistry, zoology and botany departments. The university gave affiliation to the college way back in 1982, but did not post science teachers in the college, sources said.
 
 According to the sources, the strength of teachers has depleted in the colleges located in rural and semi-rural areas as as large number of teachers have been transferred to city-based colleges. 
 
 
