GURUGRAM: A day after entries and exits to   were shifted to increase the motorable distance from  , around a dozen bars and eateries on Wednesday submitted their applications to   for re-measuring their distances from the highway.

 Bars and restaurants within 500 metres of NH-8 have stopped serving liquor from April 1 after the Supreme Court order prohibiting sale of liquor along state and national highways came into effect. Business for these bars and eateries had dried up, and some of them have even closed down while others have shut their bars but continue to serve food. With altered entries, they are now contesting their distance from the highway, and asking the excise department to take a new measurement, hoping they will win an exemption.
 
 “We’ve submitted our affidavits to the excise department, requesting for re-measurement of motorable distance,” said Ashwin Chaudhary of   in Sector 29. He said authorities have reinforced the original entry and exit points of Sector 29, which were always far beyond the 500m limit. He said measurement is likely to take place on Thursday.
 
 Measurements were taken in Sector 29 on April 1. Since then, 11 bars and eateries, among them big names like Warehouse Cafe and Adda by Striker, have shut shop, while six others, including  , closed their bars. 
 
 The reworked route is like this — for traffic moving in from NH-8 into the road going towards Huda City Centre, the left turn into Sector 29 after Crowne Plaza has been closed. Instead, motorists have to take a left turn after Gymkhana Club, to enter Sector 29. Exiting cars have to take Leisure Valley Road and a left turn back towards Gymkhana Club before taking a U-turn towards the highway. 
 
 A senior excise official confirmed receiving representations and affidavits from Sector 29 bars and restaurants. “We had prepared a list of bars and restaurants within 500m. Anyone wanting to contest that, had to submit an affidavit claiming their outlet is beyond the restricted zone,” said the official, adding once the department receives such affidavits, it verifies the claims.
 
 Deputy excise commissioner (east) Aruna Singh said measurements at Sector 29 may be conducted on Thursday. “We have received the representation from owners of bars and restaurants,” said Singh, adding this will be done in the presence of all members of the district-level committee overseeing the exercise. In case all members are unable to attend on Thursday, the plan could be postponed by a day. 
 
 
