KENDRAPADA: In a thrilling rerun of a plot that has enthralled cinema from the times of Alfred Hitchcock's 1944 Lifeboat to Ang Lee's more recent Life of Pi, four fishermen have returned to tell a similar tale after spending a harrowing ten days lost in the  .

 Ratan Ray (22),   (35),   (45), and Kiran Das (58) have a lot in common. All four depend on fishing for a livelihood, all four live in the fishing village of Ramnagar in the Mahakalapada block of Kendrapada and all four of them are very unlikely to forget January 12 or the ten days that followed it.
 
 The four had been fishing on a mechanised boat when it developed a technical snag and suddenly stopped working. 
 
 Stranded on the rough night sea and without any means of returning to the fishing jetty at Kharinashi, the four reportedly held fast to the boat as it steadily drifted into the Bay of Bengal. 
 
 With food and water in short supply, the four found themselves in a situation that they had heard of but never dreamed they would be in.
 
 "We ate raw fish for five days. The next five days we drank sea water. One night, a seagul landed on our boat, so we caught it and ate it," said Tushar Das.
 
 The narrative is not only an echo of the nautical literature that has spoken of the lives of castaways and lost sailors for centuries, but also of the reality of a very basic struggle undergone by four men -- that of grappling with their own fear.
 
 "We weren't really scared during the day time. But every night, in the blind darkness, the fear set in. I was scared like I have never been before," said Tushar.
 
 With an almost fictitious inevitability, help appeared when the men were beginning to lose hope.
 
 On January 22, a fishing vessel from Kakinada in Andhra Pradesh spotted them in the deep sea and informed the Coast Guard's office at Visakhapatnam. 
 
 "The missing report of the fishing boat was forwarded to the coast guard by the assistant fishery officer of Mahakapara on January 20. An extensive search and rescue operation was launched by the   on January 21. Our helicopter located the boat 58 nautical miles east off Gopalpur coast on Janueary 22," said an official of the coast guard at Paradip. 
 
 The four were taken onto the fishing vessel and brought to the shore, while a coast guard ship towed their boat till the Paradip fishing harbour on Monday.
 
 They were then attended to by coast guards and given primary first aid.
 
 "All four crew on board were safe and were provided with initial first aid," he added
 
 For Ratan, Manik, Tushar and Kiran, the sea holds promises anew. 
 
 But that it will forever be a testament to a harrowing ten days of their lives is evident from Manik Das, who says, "We grew weak. A few days' delay would have killed us all."
 
