Vadodara: Fumes of the humble ‘loban dhoop’ which has been used as atmosphere purifier and portable flash lights have helped the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) fight the bat menace that had reached alarming proportion at the famous Sun Temple at Modhera. 

 The nocturnal creatures had laid siege to the Sun Temple – one of the finest architectures of the 11th century - for years with tourists cringing at the stench of their urine. 
 
 ASI has now achieved success in removing a majority of bats from the temple which is known for its carved torana arches. 
 
 “Since two months, we are continuously carrying out the exercise whereby first we spread the fragrance of ‘loban’ inside the Sun temple after visitors vacate the premises. Once this is done, we use portable lights to get rid of the bats while keeping the doors of the temple open for them to fly away,” said Arun Malik, deputy superintending archaeologist of ASI Vadodara circle, which manages the monument.
 
 “After the bats fly out, we shut the doors. This exercise is carried out on daily basis and we have so far achieved 80 % success,” he said, adding that being a protected monuments, ASI cannot fix permanent lights. 
 
 “This was the cheapest and the most indigenous way to solve the bat menace. Although there are a couple of bats which still find the rough stone surface and dark zones/ spaces of the monument easy to hang on, we will be continuing this manual exercise to remove the bats,” he said. 
 
 He added that putting up nets surrounding the monument would have impacted the visual appeal of the heritage structure which is visited by lakhs of tourists. 
 
 In the year 2016-17, a total of 3,21,679 tourists had visited Modhera. 
 
 The iconic Sun temple encompasses Surya Kund (beautifully carved stepped tank named after Sun God), Sabha Mandap (the hall where people gather) and Guda Mandap (the sanctum sanctorum – also known as the main temple). 
 
 “Earlier, offensive smell came out from the excreta of thousands of bats which had made the main temple their permanent home. But, as the bats have been removed, the premises are being kept clean making it comfortable for the visitors,” said Vipul Rawal, a Modhera-based guide.
 
 “In the past, tourists, who wanted to spend more time at the temple to watch the architecture of the monument would immediately leave because of the strong stench. But now the problem has been resolved,” said another guide Girish Goswami. 
 
 
