DEHRADUN: Ending days of speculation and suspense, the   party on Sunday afternoon announced its first list of 63 candidates in the state. According to observers, the list has the stamp of CM Harish   as not only have Congress allies Progressive Democratic Front (PDF) been accommodated — which was a bone of contention between the CM and state Congress chief Kishore Upadhyay who was opposed to their inclusion —but also BJP dissidents who were perceived as winning candidates. 

 The highlight of the list was that Rawat would be contesting from two seats — Haridwar (rural) and Kichha in Udham Singh Nagar district. Till now, no CM in the state has entered into the fray from two seats. Incidentally, both the seats are in the plains unlike Dharchula in Pithoragarh district, a hill constituency from where the CM had won last time. State party president Kishore Upadhyay, who had fought the last elections from Tehri, will contest from the Sahaspur constituency of Dehradun district this time. 
 
 The two PDF legislators Mantri Prasad Naithani and Harish Chandra Durgapal, who had contested as independents after being denied a Congress ticket in 2012, will now contest as party candidates from Devprayag and Lal Kuan respectively. The other prominent names in the list are state cabinet ministers Indira Hridayesh (Haldwani), Dinesh Agarwal (Dharampur), Navprabhat (Vikas Nagar), Rajendra Bhandari (Badrinath) and   (Chakrata) all of whom had won from these seats in 2012. Four former BJP leaders — Rajkumar, Suresh Chand Jain, Shailendra Singh Rawat and Suneeta Bajwa — who were denied tickets by the saffron party have been accommodated by the Congress from Purola, Roorkee, Yamkeshwar and Sitarganj, respectively. 
 
 The two BJP MLAs who had stood with the Congress during the political turmoil that began in March last year – Bhim Lal Arya and Dan Singh Bandari – have also been given tickets by the party. While Arya would contest from his pocket borough of Ghansali, Bhandari has got the ticket from Bhimtal. Lt Gen T P S Rawat, who had contested as an   Raksha Morcha candidate from Lansdowne seat in 2012 and stood second, has also got a ticket from the seat. Rawat was earlier with the BJP and had also served as a minister in the   government. Among others, state Congress women’s cell chief Sarita Arya has got the ticket from Nainital, Vijaypal Singh Sajwan from Gangotri, Harish Dhami from Dharchula, Jeet Ram from Tharali and Ansuya Prasad Maikhuri from Karnprayag. Mayukh Mahar is the party’s candidate from Pithoragarh, Govind Singh Kunjwal from Jageshwar.
 
