MUMBAI: Forty-three hotels, including a few five-stars, across Mumbai and Pune have had to shut bars on their terraces after the state excise department found they were using the daily club or temporary party licence, meant for special occasions, functions and festivals, to serve customers right through the year.

 The move comes days after the department decided to discontinue these licences because of rampant misuse. Daily club licences given to the 43 hotels have been permanently withdrawn.
 
 Among the affected hotels are Sea Palace, Colaba; Peninsula Grand, Saki Naka; Four Seasons' AER, Parel; and St Regis's Asilo, Lower Parel. Several joints in the suburbs have also been hit. While a host of permissions from various authorities are required and many conditions need to be fulfilled for obtaining a permanent licence to serve liquor, called the FL-III licence, daily club licences are easier and quicker to obtain.Excise officials said FL-III licences cannot be obtained if a hotel is close to a school, hospital or a religious place or if it does not have an enclosed RCC structure certified by the civic body , and they can be given only after a hotel gets a health certificate, fire safety compliance and other structural approvals from the civic body at the time of starting its food service (unless food service nods are in place, permit room licences cannot be obtained). This can take three to six months. The officials said daily licences were being obtained by those who wanted to get around these rules.
 
 A senior official told TOI, “We will lose revenue of Rs 7-8 crore but in case of an incident, we don't want to be told we issued a licence to a premises to which BMC had not issued a licence. We have faced many such cases and so have issued strict instructions to avoid temporary licensing where there is no FL-III permit.“
 
 The daily club licence can be obtained for Rs15,000 (per day) but is not meant for regular services. For permanent bar service, an annual fee of Rs6 lakh has to be paid by the bar owner. At the time of the annual renewal, excise offici als conduct checks before reissuing the permit.
 
 Some hotels paid Rs 20 lakh to 45 lakh every year in the form of the daily permit fee (Rs15,000 per day for 200 to 300 days a year), which was four to five times the FL-III licence fee.But following the recent action, officials said a few establishments have initiated the process to get a permanent food licence in a bid to acquire an FLIII licence. “We hope some of these establishments will be back,“ the officials said.
 
 Dilip Datwani, president of Hotels and Restaurants Association, Western India (HRAWI), which has over 2,000 star hotels as members, praised the state's move, saying the directives would create a level playing field. An affected hotelier said, “Money is no constraint, but red tape forced many hotels to bend rules. Obtaining 40 permissions was tedious and costly due to lack of transparency and corrupt practices.“ He said rather than getting applications for permanent permits rejected, some hoteliers had found it preferable to spend more on party permits.
 
 Adarsh Shetty , president of Ahar, an association of over 8,000 bars and restaurants in the city , also welcomed the move. “There are some restaurants that have applied for an FL-III licence but before they get it, they are using temporary licences to conduct business.They should not be allowed to take a daily licence.“ he said.
 
 
 
 
 While hotels may have bent the rules to get daily licences , it is possible red tape did play a role in many looking for short cuts. Our system for granting approvals is notoriously slow and it is made worse by graft.The state government has been speaking of a single-window system for long. It should now introduce such a system so that those who want to do business honestly have a chance.
 
