CHENNAI: A rarely witnessed fight between two male   is a key feature of the latest documentary in the country on one of the world’s most venomous snakes.

 The fight, says the film’s maker P Gowri Shankar, is mostly mistaken for mating. “It is actually a tussle between two males for a female, while mating is a very silent affair,” says the man who mainly shot ‘Cobra King’ in and around Karnataka’s Agumbe, the homeland of king cobras. It showcases the life of king cobras, their breeding biology, the need to protect them and the reverence accorded to them by the people of Malnad.
 
 The only member of the snake family to build a nest to lay eggs, the female leaves the nest just before the hatchlings emerge, said Gowri Shankar. 
 
 “All observations and filming were done on field by monitoring the snakes without the use of radio telemetry. This was challenging and we could not afford any mistakes as it would have been impossible to track them if they moved away,” he said.
 
 The   for Rainforest Ecology ( ) team comprising Prashanth, several interns, the filming crew and himself stayed at the site from dawn to dusk and noted down all observations, said Gowri Shankar.
 
 Destruction of their habitat and poaching are two key factors threatening the existence of king cobras, mainly sought for their skin, he said. Some are caught and exported for display in zoos and as pets, added the man who has been studying king cobras for close to two decades and is currently pursuing a doctorate on the species.
 
 The documentary, says wildlife filmmaker Saravanakumar, takes one back to the days of pure natural history filmmaking where the makers had to wake before the animals do and sleep after they did. “It is hard work, on the field, constantly tracking an animal as agile and dangerous as a king cobra is both difficult as well as exhilarating.”
 
 The film, a compelling tale interwoven with good bits of natural history and some great adventures, brings out the essence of the lives of the king cobras, said Saravanakumar. 
 
 
