On Wednesday, Delhi University’s   hoisted a ‘monumental’ flag on its campus on the occasion of its 68th   celebrations, making DU the first public university in the country to get a monumental flagpole. This comes almost a year after vice chancellors of all central universities decided to install the national flag “prominently and proudly” on their campuses. 

  
  The monumental national flag on Hans Raj’s campus is similar to the one in CP (BCCL)
 
 The 100ft-tall flag was hoisted by MP  , a Hans Raj alumnus and founder of the   (FFOI). Actor  , Jindal’s college batchmate, was also present at the event. This is the second monumental flag by FFOI in Delhi, the first being the 207ft-tall flag in Central Park, CP
 Last February, all central universities decided to hoist the tricolour after a directive from the union Human Resource Development ministry. After almost a year, Hans Raj College of   became the first to do so, as it hoisted a ‘monumental’ national flag on its 68th Republic Day celebrations. Last August, Naveen Jindal, an alumnus of the college, and also the founder of the Flag Foundation of India (FFOI), had announced on the college’s Foundation Day that he would hoist the national flag on the college campus. Over four months after the announcement, he unfurled the tricolour at his alma mater. 
 
  
  (L-R) Naveen Jindal and Parvin Dabas during the flag- hoisting ceremony on the front lawns of the college (BCCL)
 
 
 
 Apart from Naveen Jindal, actor and model Parvin Dabas, his batchmate, was also present during the R-Day celebrations at the college. As the college hoisted the national flag, Rama Sharma, acting principal of the college, thanked Jindal for installing the 100-feet tall flagpole. “Aaj Naveen Jindal ne bata diya ki jo sanskaar unhone Hans Raj se liye hain, aise sanskaar le kar unke liye sabse bada sammaan hai desh ke jhande ka sammaan karna.”
 
 
  
  (R) MP and alumnus of Hans Raj College, Naveen Jindal, with the acting principal of the college, Rama Sharma (BCCL)
 
 Addressing the students, Jindal said, “Foundation Day par Rama ma’am ne mujhe aadesh diya tha college mein national flag lagna chahiye, aur aaj hum sab ke liye bahut khushi ka din hai ki humare college mein humara national flag laga. When we display our national flag at any place, we rise above our religion and political affiliations, and that represents that we all are Indians.” Parvin Dabas said, “Aaj Shah Rukh Khan Raees ke promotions mein busy hain, isliye main college aa gaya. When Naveen won that court case (referring to Jindal’s plea that hoisting the national flag was a fundamental right of the citizens), I proudly told everyone that he is from our college, and my batch.”
 
 
  
  Students attending the flag-hoisting ceremony (BCCL)
 
 
 This flagpole is similar to the 207-feet tall flagpole at Connaught Place, which is a selfie-favourite. Several students were seen clicking selfies with the flag at Hansraj as well. “This will be the new selfie point for students. It feels great to know that it has been installed in our college,” said Hema Chandel, a second-year student of the college. Atul Sehrawat, a third-year student, added, “We are proud Hansarians. Hans Raj pehla college hai jahan national flag aise hoist hua hai.
 
 
  
    cadets pay tribute to the tricolour (BCCL)
 
 
