Panaji: Acting on chief minister Manohar Parrikar’s announcement in the assembly on Friday, permissions granted to Goa University to fill up almost 80 vacant faculty positions have been withdrawn by the directorate of higher education. The university will now have to apply afresh to fill up faculty vacancies. With nearly 80 of its 191 sanctioned teaching posts at GU lying vacant, the 43% faculty shortage has compelled the varsity to make do with temporary teaching staff.  The current dispute stems from contradictions in rules notified from three sources - a domicile clause imposed by the state, University Grants Commission (UGC) rules that do not favour a domicile criterion and GU statutes. GU is an autonomous body governed by its statutes and ordinances. However, being state-funded, it needs the government’s permission to hire faculty members. In 2013, the directorate of higher education introduced a 15-year domicile criterion for candidates when GU sought permission to recruit faculty. “Few are aware that UGC does not recommend a domicile for candidates for faculty positions in universities. Goa University too is to be blamed to some extent as its own ordinance SA-19 is vague. While clauses 6 and 12 of the statute specify details of recruitments in government colleges, they make no mention when it comes to hiring faculty for Goa University or private colleges,” said an academic. After the introduction of the domicile clause, GU has had to seek relaxations in criteria twice to be able to hire non-domicile candidates where Goan candidates were not available. “Though UGC does not agree to include regionalistic requirements like domiciles, states like Goa have a very specific problem, which should have been communicated effectively by GU authorities to the state. In case of large states, suitable candidates are easily found within the state so there is no worry over getting candidates from outside for certain specialisations. But in Goa, there is small pool to choose from,” another academic said. On Friday, the CM withdrew the relaxation granted recently to GU after it was noticed that the university’s advertisement calling for applications did not specify that the domicile relaxation applied only where Goan candidates were unavailable. The CM and the MLAs felt the advertisement was misleading.