CHENNAI: The recent ruling of the Madurai bench of the Madras high court, expressing dissatisfaction at the slow pace of work in removing   (prosopis juliflora) trees in 13 districts, has driven officials and government agencies to launch massive drives to eradicate the invasive species on a war footing.

  Experts, however, say a rushed mass uprooting of the trees may not help in complete eradication which requires prolonged and consistent efforts given the sturdy nature of the tree and its capability to spread fast. The fact that the species is the main source of livelihood for hundreds of people in the arid districts of southern Tamil Nadu, also raises doubts over the move for its hasty removal, especially when an alternative source of livelihood has not been found for these people. Notorious for   for its survival, seemai karuvelam was introduced by the state government as firewood in the 1960s, but the adverse effects of the exotic species was not carefully studied. Like all invasive species, it has natural defences like thorns and deep roots and spreads its seeds through fruits or pods which are consumed by livestock. The seeds disseminate through the dung of animals and grow swiftly, dwarfing native species.
 
 “Seemai karuvelam trees were not a big threat when the monsoons were regular. But they have become a threat due to erratic monsoons and water scarcity as the trees spread fast and consume more water, thus depleting the groundwater level,“ said K M Rajasekaran, professor of botany and principal of Madura College (evening section).
 
 The public works department in Madurai has been carrying out annual clearing works of seemai karuvelam trees from the Vaigai riverbed but the trees sprout back fast. “Fighting the species should be a prolonged effort or else they will grow back. When not uprooted properly they grow more vigorously like cancerous cells,“ Rajasekaran added.
 
 As the trees were found in abundance in the southern districts, locals especially in Sivaganga and Ramanathapuram districts started using the wood for charcoal ­ called as `karimootam' (charcoal heap). With the wood of Seemai karuvelam trees having high carbon content, charcoal derived from it is in high demand in the industrial sector.
 
 The entire karimootam business is roughly estimated to be around Rs 1,000 crore.
 
 The   also employs hundreds of people in these dry districts where agricultural activities are scarce. K Karuppasamy of Kakkudi in Ram anathapuram district said the industry pro vides employment to villagers round the year. “The karimootam heaps come in vari ous sizes and it takes us at least a month's time to convert them into charcoal. As we make multiple karimootams, there is work for people round the year,“ he said. Men are paid Rs 400 and women are paid Rs 250 as daily wages.
 
 With the charcoal being in huge demand, especially in north India, the industry also supports traders who handle sup ply. “At times, an entire trainload of charcoal is brought from Man amadurai, which is known for its superior quality of charcoal, for industrial units,“ said V Chandrasekar who was into charcoal business earlier.
 
 Two-third of the entire firewood transacted in the region is from this particular variety . The charcoal is also widely used in establishments like restaurants (for tandoori ovens) and crematoriums. “The seemaikaruvel trees are perfect for making charcoal as it burns longer. The same derived from other trees have less longevity,“ Karuppasamy said.
 
 Charcoal makers in the districts are afraid they may not get an economically viable alternative to this invasive variety. Charcoal powder extracted from the wood of seemai karuvelam trees also find use in the agarbatti industry .
 
 There are, however, many karimootam makers and firewood traders who are hopeful of finding out an alternative to the species for their livelihood. “It has been established that seemai karuvelam trees are harmful for the environment. In view of the depletion of groundwater by the species, the high court has taken the right step in ordering its eradication,“ says R Dharmalingam, a firewood trader in Madurai.
 
