PATNA: Durgacharan Roy in his Bangla novel ‘Debganer Martye Aagaman’, or The Gods Visit Earth, tells us how the deities shivered to see the filth and dirt during a visit to Kolkata. The novel came out in 1880, but their reaction would be worse if they visit   in Patna’s Ashiana Nagar even today, 137 years on.

 Indeed, the   road that runs through Ram Nagari and connects it to Ashiana Nagar and further to the brand new Pataliputra railway station is a picture of criminal apathy of the authorities concerned.
 
 Heaps of mud, concrete pipes, piles of dirt and waterlogged ditches dot the area, making it risky for the motorists as well as pedestrians to negotiate this stretch. 
 
 The 400-metre road, stretching from Paras Garden to Ashiana Nagar via NTPC Vihar, has been in a dilapidated condition for the last three years. The situation worsens during the monsoon. 
 
 The road falls under the Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC)’s ward number 2. Ironically, ward councillor Madhu Chaurasia is in the PMC’s powerful nine-member empowered standing committee.
 
 Not that the residents have been sitting idle. Months ago, they in a delegation met the then ward councillor, Deepak Kumar Chaurasia, who is the husband of current ward councillor Madhu. He had given them a positive assurance.
 
 The road construction work started in February this year, only to mysteriously stop within two days. It resumed in April, and stopped again within a couple of days into monsoon. The no one’s baby has thus been left in a worse shape.
 
 “We shiver even at the sight of clouds as showers only add to our woes... Dustbins overflow and float around in the clogged water. Cabs, autos and rickshaw-pullers refuse to take passengers to this area. Incidents of schoolchildren falling down and hurting themselves are commonplace...” said a housewife residing in the area, preferring anonymity.
 
 The harried residents claimed to have approached Digha MLA Sanjeev Kumar Chaurasia.   of NTPC Vihar-Phase 1 even represented to CM   when he came to their locality to attend a house-warming party in September last year, the residents claimed and regretted all that fell on deaf ears.
 
 PMC commissioner Abhishek Singh told this journalist on Friday the tender for the road construction was passed only last month. It’s a project worth Rs 1 crore, he added.
 
 Asked why the construction work has been left midway, the PMC commissioner claimed a section of the residents had requested the PMC to postpone it fearing inconvenience in the rains. “We will resume the construction work the day the residents give us the go-ahead through the ward councillor,” he said.
 
 It could not be known how the construction work started in February if the tender was passed only in June as Singh claimed ignorance about it and ward councillor Madhu did not take the calls made by this reporter to her cellphone.
 
