THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The LDF ruling council braved a stormy session marked by allegations and counter allegations of corruption to get the   passed through a voting here on Tuesday. The Left Front was aided by the ‘customary walk out’ of the UDF and got the budget passed winning 44 votes against BJP’s 35.

 Right from the onset, mayor V K Prasanth had his task cut out as the BJP councillors carried on from where they had left on Monday afternoon. They demanded an apology from the chairman of health standing committee K Sreekumar for his remark against Prime Minister  . The mayor said that all unnecessary remarks made by both sides during the discussion would be removed from the minutes.
 
 The LDF ruling council, wary of an aggressive opposition slowly laid the trap to provoke the BJP into leaving the council hall by drawing the discussion towards tax reduction for Tejaswini building at Technopark which was unanimously awarded by tax appeal standing committee chairperson Simi Jyothish who is a BJP councillor. The LDF members Vanchiyur Babu and K Sreekumar alleged that the decision to reduce the tax was a violation of municipality norms and said that the decision reeked of corruption and it caused enormous loss to the corporation.
 
 The allegation threw the opposition into a frantic mood as the BJP parliamentary party leader Girikumar defended the decision and said that as tax appeal committee chairperson, Simi Jyothish had the right to reduce tax and that it was done following a communication from the state government. 
 
 The BJP later intensified the attack and said that ruling council had caused serious monetary loss by awarding Ulloor rest house to E K Nayanar Charitable Trust. 
 
 Tension soared during the post lunch session when the BJP councillor Karamana Ajith targeted LDF councillor S Pushpalatha and said that he had evidence to prove that Pushpalatha accepted bribes from contractors for various works. Mayor V K Prasanth asked Karamana Ajith either to present evidence or to withdraw the allegation. Ajith stood by his allegation and noisy scenes unfurled in the council.
 
 The UDF councillors acted timely and announced that budget discussion was being marred by corruption talk and that they were boycotting the session.
 
 Deputy mayor Rakhi Ravikumar in her response said that Ulloor rest house was put up for auction and that corporation get a monthly rent of Rs 1.42 lakh from the trust. 
 
 Later the budget was passed through voting.
 
