Help me, someone do something,” screamed Winston Smith on stage as he is forced to confess his thought crimes by O’Brien and masked party members with the audience as silent helpless witnesses of his torments. The audience was in for an unforgettable theatre experience at   as a city theatre group,   staged George Orwell’s dystopian masterpiece,  , on Monday evening.
The play brought to life the story of Winston Smith, a Ministry of Truth employee of Oceania, a totalitarian state controlled by an invasive government and its leader, known as Big Brother. With telescreens, secret microphones and cameras planted everywhere, the people are under the omnipresent eye of the Big Brother and the party. Even Oceania’s history and language are not spared. With implementation of a new language called Newspeak, the party is trying to thwart political rebellion by doing away with all words related to it. Anyone who tries to compromise with the rules set by the party is identified and tortured by Thought Police. Winston, whose job is to rewrite the history of Ocenia to fit the needs of the Party is disillusion with the oppressive measures of the Party. He begins writing a diary criticising the Party and Big Brother, falls in love with a woman named Julia and plans to be a part of the mysterious brotherhood that works to overthrow the Party. Now that he has committed the thought crimes, he must face the consequences.
 Anurag Wate was brilliant in his portrayal of the disillusioned, revolting yet hopelessly in love Winston Smith. Laukik Desai as O’Brien and Snigdha Phadke as Julia were brilliant in pulling up their characters almost flawlessly. The audience also got to witness some fine acting from other crew members, Syed Ali, Sarvesh Brahma, Priyanka Priyadarshini, Vishal Mittal, Arun Sharma and Oorja Desai. The play under the direction of   narrated the nightmarish experience of Winston with great skill and gave the audience a peek into the horrendous and menacing state of affairs in Oceania as depicted in George Orwell’s masterpiece.
 
