Mumbai: Amid the rising popularity of an international MBA tag, global politics is shaping the dynamics of where students are flying.

 A GMAC survey reveals that   and Canada are about twice as likely to report growth in international applicants compared with the US, where fewer than half the programmes have reported growth for 2017 —with the exception of part-time MBA and Master in Data Analytics. Even business courses in East, Southeast Asia and India have reported growing application volumes. 
 
 Gender-wise change is also being witnessed. This year, women represent 42% of total applications received by programmes surveyed, up from 37% in 2013. Also, a majority of full-time MBA applicants have between three and 10 years of experience. 
 
 “Demand for graduate business education remains strong, especially among the largest programs, which tend also to be the most well-known programs with brand recognition,” said Sangeet Chowfla, Graduate Management Admission Council (GMAC) president and CEO. “While non-US programs are thriving, a strong economy and a disruptive political climate is likely contributing to the downward trend in application volumes among smaller US programmes this year.”
 
 Merely 32% of US programmes reported growing international application volumes in 2017 versus 49% in 2016. Conversely, 77% of Canadian programs reported increases in international applications (46% in 2016), as well as 67% of European programs (65% in 2016). Despite the Brexit vote, about two-thirds of programs in the UK have seen international demand grow, noted the report.
 
 In case of India, 20 graduate business programmes participated in the survey and received 1.6 lakh applications. Overall, 85% of the MBA courses reported growth in their application volumes this year. Very few applicants to Indian programs were from outside of India—less than 1%. Among the courses that received applications from international candidates, 25% reported growth and 75% are stable. Women comprised 43% of the application volume to MBA programs and 74% of programmes reported increased volume of female applicants.
 
 Worldwide, participating programs received a combined total of 466,176 applications during the 2017 application cycle. Ninety-two percent of all participating programs reported that applicants this year are similarly or more academically qualified than candidates last year.
 
 Nearly 3 in 4 graduate business programs with 201 or more class seats reported increased application volumes this year compared to 39% of the smallest programs (50 or fewer class seats), according to the application trends survey from the GMAC.
 
 GMAC conducted its 18th annual Application Trends Survey from early June to mid-July 2017. The survey findings are based on responses from 351 business schools located in 40 countries representing 965 graduate management programs, including MBA, non-MBA business master's, and doctoral-level programs.
 
