The romantic rainy season is a much-needed relief from the rising mercury, but it brings along with it the eternal dilemma of what to wear. With raindrops falling on your head, pack away full-length pants and leather shoes. Think of utilitarian styles with shorts, cropped trousers, and dresses in fabrics like neoprene, crepe and georgette. 

 
 “Every season requires you to alter your wardrobe, but do it without compromising on your sartorial sense,” says designer Rutu Shah. Her advice: switch to light synthetics for the monsoons. “Go for boxy silhouettes which are less fitted, such as pleated skirts, culottes and circular dresses. They look super trendy and are easy to carry,” she adds. 
 Obviously, raincoats are here to stay, but in an updated version. Go for transparent coats in colourful prints and solid ones with self-coloured patchwork and detailing. Even puffer jackets and windcheaters are going from utilitarian to fashionable. Pair them with dresses, pencil skirts and cropped tops. 
 
 
 
 While earthy tones such as deep merlot, chocolate, rust and beige give you a lean, opulent look, don’t steer away from brights. Designer Karn Malhotra says, “Bad weather is already depressing, so why not go out and wear something vibrant to lift up that sombre atmosphere.” Upgrade your rain footwear too by going for bright-coloured rain boots. Opt for colourful and see-through raincoats and umbrellas with accents and detailing.
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  (From left to right) 
 
 
 #1 
 
 Bye bye leather, hello leatherette. Embrace faux leather in various forms — dresses, tights, skirts, jackets, bralets, footwear, bags and more. Best bit? It’s rainproof
 #2
 
 Belt up your raincoat to add some shape and sensuality
 #3
 
 Go for balloon-sleeved, zipper bombers in light, easily-washable materials like chiffon and mesh and in funky prints
 
  
  (From left to right) 
 
 #4 
 
 Oversized outerwear is in—be it parkas, anoraks, belted trench coats or capes
 #5 
 
 Keep your legs warm by adding a pair of funky stockings
 #6 
 
 Ditch those bulky denims for a pair of tights. Go with tights in metallic colours like red, blue, gold or green
 #7 
 
 Go sheer on the top with the ’90s-inspired button-up blouse shirt in soft chiffon fabric. Your bra selection is important here 
 
