BEIJING: Continuing with its drive to take a leadership position in different aspects of Asian life, China on Saturday launched an Asian Universities   with participation by universities from 15 countries. From India, the Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay, has become a member.

 The alliance, which has been put together by the elite   in Beijing, aims to promote exchanges of students and teaching faculties across different universities in Asia. They will also come together to promote joint research in a range of areas.
 
 "We are already doing a lot of international collaborations. But this alliance will help us refocus on Asian universities in a lot of areas like student mobility, faculty exchange, and joint research," Prasanna M. Mujumdar, deputy director of IIT, Bombay told TOI while explaining his institution's purpose in joining the alliance.
 
 IIT, Bombay has a collaboration with Monash University in   making it possible for students to access wider education opportunities and receive degrees signed by presidents of two universities, Majumdar said. Similar collaboration may be possible with other member universities in this Asian alliance, he said.
  
 "What we would like to do is built up very strong research groups with other universities," Majumdar said adding,"If we have strength in two universities, the best of minds from two sides, each have their own niche expertise to contribute, then we can jointly bid for research proposals".
 
 Alliance partners include the   in Beijing, University of Tokyo, Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, Singapore National University, Seoul National University and the University of Colombo, Tsinghua University, Peking University, the Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, South Korea Seoul National University, the University of Tokyo in Japan, Chulalongkorn University of Thailand, the University of Yangon, Myanmar, University of Malaya of Malaysia, Singapore National University, University of Indonesia, the University of Colombo, Sri Lanka, the Indian Institute of Technology Bombay, Tsinghua University, Peking University, the Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, South Korea Seoul National University, the University of Tokyo in Japan, Chulalongkorn University of Thailand, the University of Yangon, Myanmar, University of Malaya of Malaysia, Singapore National University, University of Indonesia, the University of Colombo, Sri Lanka, the Indian Institute of Technology Bombay,
 Tsinghua University, Peking University, the Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, South Korea Seoul National University, the University of Tokyo in Japan, Chulalongkorn University of Thailand, the University of Yangon, Myanmar, University of Malaya of Malaysia, Singapore National University, University of Indonesia, the University of Colombo, Sri Lanka, the Indian Institute of Technology Bombay.
 
 The alliance will become "a platform for gathering educational ideas and resources to train".
 
 The alliance will contribute "Asian wisdom to resolve regional and global problems," Chinese vice premier   said while inaugurating the launch program on Saturday. It will bring together "outstanding talents with an international perspective and to serve regional development," she said. 
 
 At its first meeting, the alliance partners decided to focus research on information technology, resources and environment and public health. 
 
 "We have strength in all of these areas. We would like to build strong research groups in these areas across these Asian universities," Majumdar said. It is possible to attract funding when there are strong research groups, he pointed out.
 
 
