NEW DELHI:   are determined to go ahead with a rally on Sunday at   here in protest against the recent caste clashes in Saharanpur, despite the Delhi Police denying permission late Saturday evening.

 The recent violence involving Dalits and Thakurs in Saharanpur during the birth anniversary celebrations of B R Ambedkar has refused to die down and reignited the Dalit protest movement that was triggered by the Una (Gujarat) atrocities against some Dalit youths in 2015, but had since lost steam.
 
 Dalits have been regrouping over the past one month and activists plan to hit Delhi with an impromptu rally planned for Sunday. Bhim Army leader Chandrashekhar, the new face of Dalit leadership in UP, is expected to be among those who will address the rally. People from various fora have responded to the call and JNU student leader Kanhaiya Kumar, Dalit activists Jignesh Mewani (Gujarat) and Ram Kumar (UP), Muslim community leaders are expected to attend the gathering.
 
 “Now that the government is trying to deprive the Dalits of their democratic right to hold a peaceful rallyand put forward their demands and grievances, people will reach the venue tomorrow (Sunday) at any cost and if stopped from assembling, we will hold a larger rally soon,” said Ashok Bharti, Dalit activist and one of the coordinators for the event.
 
 The call to hold a rally at a short notice was taken about 10 days back and hence instead of state-wise mobilization through Dalit organizations, it has been a direct call on the social media. “It will be a test for us to see if people react spontaneously and come out to show solidarity against the recent attacks,” said Bharti.
 
 At Sunday’s rally, the Dalit groups are expected to make specific demands. “They will insist first on institutional response like police arresting the culprits and not just giving assurances.
 
 Second, to ensure that local media is not fed distorted information about what really happened. And third, that the Election Commission take cognizance of the situation as Dalits are now suspecting that the UP government is allowing the violence to spread as it could help BJP consolidate upper caste voters in the states where assembly polls are coming up,” said Bharti.
 
 
