 At least 12 police personnel were injured and the   on   under the   police station area was ransacked and its equipment torched as the locals turned violent after a security guard of the motor vehicle inspector (MVI) shot at a truck driver after heated exchange on Friday morning. The truck driver,  , received gunshot injuries in his leg.
 
  Sources said the incident took place allegedly over demanding extortion from the truck driver. However, a police source said the confrontation took place after a toll plaza employee allegedly demanded higher amount than the fixed rate from Munna. The MVI guard fired twice at a truck during the confrontation between toll plaza employee and Munna. Later, the locals and truck drivers started pelting stones at toll booth and policemen.
  
  The truck driver was rushed to NMCH where his condition was stable. Eyewitnesses said the truck driver was badly thrashed by the policemen and toll plaza employees before he was shot at by the security guard. The NH-30 near Deedarganj remained blocked for hours. When the police tried to disperse the crowd, they were chased away.
  
  The matter was brought under control only after Patna SSP Manu Maharaj reached the spot. He said two FIRs had been lodged in this connection and the investigating was going on. “The situation is normal now. The reason behind the confrontation between the two sides is yet not known. The plaza employees are denying the allegations that they were demanding extra money from truck drivers. A few employees of the toll plaza and eyewitnesses were being questioned. Strict action will be taken against the culprits,” the SSP said.
  
  Additional forces have been deployed at the spot to maintain law and order. According to police, no one has so far been arrested for attacking policemen.
  
  Toll plaza supervisor   said angry truck drivers badly beat up his employees and torched the equipment and ransacked the booths. “They smashed the glasses and burned important equipment and   cameras,” he said.
