Cleared/Ali

 Coimbatore: DMK working president M K   on Wednesday promised to set up a memorial at Marina in Chennai to commemorate the success of jallikattu protest heralded by students if his party is voted to power in 2021. 
 
 Stalin said the week-long protest for jallikattu by students was as successful and important as the anti-Hindi agitations carried out by the DMK and Tamil Nadu students in 1965. He also questioned the police’s assault on the protesters, especially after chief minister O Panneerselvam had praised them hardly a day earlier.
 
 Stalin addressed his party cadre for the first time in the city after being made working president of the party. Stalin was here to mark the anniversary of anti-Hindi agitations. 
 
 “In 1965, thousands of students turned up on the streets to save our Tamil language, but for the last one week lakhs of students turned up to save our Tamil culture and jallikattu,” he said. 
 
 “I salute these youngsters as much as I salute the fighters for Tamil language, and express my heartfelt gratitude,” he added. “Like how the anti-Hindi protest ended in victory, the protest for culture and tradition also ended in victory,” he said.
 
 However, he questioned the police excesses. “The police and authorities helped and supported the protesters and even facilitated the protest in every way. In fact, even the chief minister after announcing the ordinance in New Delhi praised the way the protest was conducted peacefully and congratulated them for the same,” said Stalin. 
 
 “However, two days later, the government and police ended up using teargas and water sprays to get rid of the protesters,” he said. “As leader of the opposition, I condemn this. But I was not allowed to do the same in the assembly,” he added.
 
 He also accused the police of hitting pregnant women and women with children. “Now to justify their actions, the police are forced to say that anti-social elements mingled among the protesters. The police are also being made scapegoats by the government to cover its inefficiency,” said Stalin.
 
 He blamed the government for not being able to stop the Kerala government from building check-dam across Bhavani River or convince the central government to cancel the NEET entrance exam. “Hundreds of farmers are committing suicide due to lack of water, especially a few in Erode,” he said.
 
 The working president also took a dig at the current way the government functions saying that he pities Panneerselvam who can’t oppose his party chief N Sasikala or the central government on any issue. 
 
 
