NEW DELHI: An inquiry into the pathological lab fire at   on December 23 has found major gaps in safety parameters at the premier hospital. 

 It has been found that a technician was boiling xylene—chemical used to process tissues—in the lab that led to fire and short-circuit. The exit door on the first floor of the administrative block, was closed permanently, forcing students to leave it through windows.
 
 “Many paraffin boxes, highly combustible, were lying unused in the lab. If the fire wasn’t controlled in time, the whole teaching block could have caught fire,” V Srinivas, deputy director (administration) of AIIMS, told TOI. The pathology department has set up an internal committee to fix responsibility and take preventive measures, he said.
 
 On Monday, AIIMS launched a drive to clear all fire exits and corridors. “We have already removed nearly 120 tractor loads of condemned material and paraffin boxes from the first-floor corridor in the pathology department,” said a senior official. The heads of all departments have been asked to deposit duplicate keys to open their rooms in case of any fire during odd hours.
 
 In the past two years alone, AIIMS has witnessed at least four incidents of minor and major fire. In one such fire in February 2015, thousands of files related to departmental inquiries, legal documents and estate records were destroyed. Fire officials said that not only AIIMS, multiple incidents of minor-to-medium fire were reported from all government hospitals throughout the year. “We do   drills and even suggest structural changes to improve safety,” said an official.
 
 Under Delhi Fire Services Act 2010, 22 rules have to be fulfilled to get safety clearance. But the lack of fire safety measures at Delhi hospitals was highlighted in a CAG audit that found nearly 80% of the government-run hospitals not complying with basic measures.  , for instance, did not have compartmentation—specific doors that are used to prevent spread of fire or smoke to other parts of a building—in accordance with the set standards. At  , auditors found the public address system non-functional.
 
 
