BHOPAL: At a time when Ahmedabad city in neighbouring state of Gujarat has become India’s first UNESCO heritage city, 300-year-old rich history of Bhopal continues to suffer due to apathy of its official machinery.

 A week after it was announced that state archaeology, archives and museums would restore palaces facing the Golden Quadrant, Bhopal Municipal Corporation ( ) on Friday pulled down portions of Zeenat Manzil.
 
 The unannounced move by civic body came some two years before the civic body had pulled down the front façade of neighbouring Shaukat Mahal. 
 
 The 18th palace is a rare example of Indo-French architecture.
 
 Not only did the demolition render portions of palace in darkness for hours, the unrelenting damage to heritage has caused dimmed hopes for preservation of city’s heritage. 
 
 “It is difficult to understand the logic of the move to tear down city heritage. One the one side, BMC is restoring  , while nearby palaces are being razed. There has to be a comprehensive plan to save city’s heritage,” said Bhopal Citizen   (BCF) representative and heritage cell in-charge, Asit Chandra.
 
 Chandra said that within a month, BCF will present a comprehensive plan to the state government for saving Bhopal’s heritage structure. 
 
 “There needs better coordination within government agencies. Currently, most structures are unprotected and fall under different departments,” he added.
 
 “Restoration cannot be in isolation when other palaces are in tatters. Whole city or its parts have to be taken up for conservation and adaptive reuse,” he said.
 
 He acknowledged that on-going restoration work in Sadar Manzil palace by the BMC is an excellent example to bring about change.
 
 “Rs 15 crore is the estimated cost of restoring a single palace like Sadar Manzil. However, the government has only sanctioned Rs 17 lakh for uplift of the front portions of other palaces. All palaces should be taken up say under HRIDAY or Smart City scheme,” said Chandra. 
 
 BCF is coordinating with experts from Bhopal and Ahmedabad in its forthcoming proposal.
 
 For starters, BCF representative indicated that golden quadrant which includes about seven palaces needs to be conserved and taken up for restoration.
 
 “We now want to have a comprehensive plan for restoration. With the actions, like the one undertaken by BMC on Friday, we are losing faith,” he added. 
 
 The palaces are Bhopal’s history from the period from 1707 to 1949.
 
 
