MUMBAI: Marathon runner   will need to gather speed as he assumes the mantle of   Sons chairman next month. India’s largest conglomerate has a string of legacy businesses troubled by debt, underperformance and adverse economic cycles. And, if the legal woes are counted in, Chandra would be sprinting right away.

 Chandra is certainly the world-class insider, the country’s best known corporate brand can put forth. His appointment also establishes the meritocracy factor in a domestic conglomerate with probably the best professional managers. The hurray factors end here only to be followed by a long list of challenges.
 
 Consider this: the group with $24 billion debt needs to fix an under performing domestic business of Tata Motors; recast a wobbly Tata Steel; a debt laden Tata Teleservices and the sluggish Indian Hotels Company. Chandra needs to redraw the group management structure (called Group Executive Committee in the   regime) and even fill s key posts in several operating companies. One of the criticisms levelled against Mistry was the group’s failure to promote or induct the right talent to transition a legacy group.
 
 The workaholic Chandra’s robust sales and marketing record, which played no small role in accelerating TCS revenue and market value, would be a valuable asset in steering the group’s consumer fronting businesses. But what he needs to establish is his grip over a bunch of asset heavy, core infrastructure and energy related operations. “He needs to evolve as a multi-sectoral specialist with speed, in businesses that need support, unlike software services which thrived almost independently. Chandra is brilliant and energetic, he can pull it through,” JM Financial MD Vishal Kampani said.
 
 Interestingly, Mistry was credited with a strong business orientation towards the infrastructure led sectors. The group insiders believe the new chairman’s initial months, or even possibly the first few years, would be spent in consolidating the parent   ownership of the group companies, a vulnerability exposed in the recent battle with the ousted Mistry. A boardroom re-balancing in some of the operating companies could be another task at hand. There is a certain urgency to resolve an ongoing slugfest with Japan’s DoCoMo, which is impatient to receive the $1.17 billion arbitration order, a dispute roiling Tata name as a trusted Indian partner for global corporations.
 
 But one of Chandra’s bigger preoccupations may be with institutional shareholders, especially the more active foreign investors, who were worried about corporate governance issues in a group with $116 billion locked up in stock markets. This was on display in the voting patterns at some of the EGMs called to dislodge Mistry. “The shareholders of the operating companies will be watching how the new chairman is tackling reputation and governance concerns, besides balancing the interests of Tata Trusts and the public shareholders,” said Shriram Subramanian, MD, InGovern Research Services, a firm advising institutional investors.
 
 
