COIMBATORE: A   was used to fly a patient suffering from kidney and liver failure from the city to Chennai on Friday afternoon for an organ transplant. The   was admitted to city-based   but the family decided to move him to Chennai-based   for the transplant surgery after they heard that some organs might be available. 

 On Friday afternoon, an   helicopter, operated by Air Aviation Rescue, landed at Coimbatore International Airport. The helicopter had been chartered by the 69-year-old patient’s family to fly him from Coimbatore to Chennai. “The patient is critically ill and requires continuous oxygen and intravenous support, so his family decided to charter the helicopter,” said the CEO of the air ambulance service, Aviators Air Rescue, B N Sridhar. “This is the first time we are offering the service in Coimbatore,” he said. 
 
 The patient, a resident of Chennai, had been admitted in Ramakrishna Hospital since February 8. The patient, who was already suffering from kidney failure, had been admitted with low blood pressure and extremely high urea creatinine levels, said a hospital spokesperson. When his condition did not stabilize even after four dialysis sessions, the doctors advised that he go in for a transplant for his kidneys and liver, which had also been affected. 
 
 On Friday, the family heard that there might be an availability of organs in Chennai and decided to move him. 
 
 The patient reached the Coimbatore International Airport at around 1.10pm and the helicopter took off at 1.50pm. The copter landed in Chennai at 3.49pm after which the patient was rushed to Apollo Hospitals. The patient was taken straight to the liver intensive care unit of the Apollo Hospitals.
 
 There have been a few instances of hospitals like Ganga Hospital who have received and sent away patients in small chartered flights or helicopters, which were fitted with life-saving equipment. “We get patients who have been air-lifted around thrice a year, but a professional air ambulance where medical care is given on board the flight has not been used by us yet,” said chairman of the plastic, hand and microsurgery department of Ganga Hospital, Dr S Raja Sabapathy. 
 
 Aviators Air Rescue recently partnered with Apollo Hospitals to provide air ambulance services for transport of critical care patients, organ transport and medical crew transport. 
 
 “We have a full-fledged medical crew from Apollo and have critical pre-hospital care protocols. We can even do intubation and thrombolysis on the helicopter,” said Sridhar. 
 
