NOIDA: A day after receiving an order from the health department that doctors and other employees of government hospitals have to wear decent clothes, the district hospital has issued a circular to its employees warning them of “stringent action” if any of them was found wearing jeans and T-shirts on duty. Many women employees were seen in traditional wear at the premises but sheepishly admitted that the order was “illogical.”

 “We had received three orders on Thursday regarding maintaining cleanliness in the surroundings, ensuring punctuality and about decent dressing. We are implementing them all,” officiating chief medical superintendent (CMS) Vandana Sharma told TOI.
 
 The government hospitals in Noida, the district hospital and the Super Speciality Paediatric Hospital & Post Graduate Teaching Institute in Sector 30 have received the order which is meant for the entire health department.
 
 Following the order, the CMS has issued a directive to all the officials/employees of the hospital to come only in decent attire. “In compliance with the directions received from the headquarters, health department, all officials/employees are directed to wear only decent attire on every working day (pants-shirt for gents and suits for ladies),” reads the notice.
 
 It is completely prohibited for any official/employee to come to the hospital wearing jeans and T-shirts, it says, adding that any violation of the said order will be followed by stringent action.
 
 The effect of the order which was issued on Thursday was visible on Friday with many women staff turning up in traditional wear like salwar-kameez.
 
 However, few men could be seen in jeans and some could be overheard joking about the order.
 
 In SSPHPGTI, employees said that while they have heard about the said order, they are waiting for a notice to be put up by the administration. Director of the the Super Speciality Paediatric Hospital & Post Graduate Teaching Institute, Dr A K Bhatt said that while doctors have already been advised to wear formal dresses, attendants’ dress too will be specified soon and the tender has been floated for the same.
 
 According to sources, the order is intended for officials/employees of the hospitals, community centres and primary health centres (PHCs) of the districts.
 
 Chief medical officer Anurag Bhargav said that they are yet to receive the order in this regard. 
 
 “We will implement it in the CHCs and PHCs as soon as we get. However, doctors have been already advised to wear serious clothing and nurses have their dress too,” he said.
 
 
