Last month, Washington University announced a new course focusing on the world of rapper-songwriter,  . Titled Politics of Kanye West: Black Genius and Sonic Aesthetics, the idea behind it is to connect students with the artiste, through black culture, racial and gender issues. The curriculum includes topics like, ‘I Love Kanye And How Critique Slips Into Hate’ and a segment on his on-stage confrontation with Taylor Swift. However, he’s not the only musician who has made it to textbooks.

 
 
 A school in NYC started a course on ‘The Sociology of Miley Cyrus’. From her portrayal as Hannah Montana to her infamous rise as a TwerkStar, the course covered topics like ‘Gender stratification and the hyper-commodification of childhood’, and ‘Bisexuality, queerness, and the female body’ among other things.
 
 
 The American rapper’s compositions made it to Georgetown University. The course, titled ‘Sociology of Hip Hop: Jay-Z’ confronted topics like racial identity, capitalism and financial inequality. The professor chose the musician due to his diverse business interests like fashion and sports, his appeal across cultures and articulation of contemporary black culture through his lyrics. 
 
 
 To see ‘The King of Pop’ make it to this list shouldn’t surprise anyone. Besides his path-breaking career and contribution to the current music scenario, MJ’s also had an eventful life. In 2012, the Clark Atlanta University introduced a course titled ‘Michael Jackson: The Business of Music’, which studied his tours, merchandising, record deals, copyrights, among other things. There are several online  , too, on him that focus on debates around his extraordinary life and the controversies surrounding him.
 
 The woman with a mind of her own had a course on her at The University of South Carolina titled ‘Lady Gaga and the Sociology of the Fame’. With its focus mainly on marketing, it also traced the rise of the 'Bad Romance' star as a global pop music icon. Special attention was also given to the role of business and marketing, how the internet has contributed to her fame and Gaga as a product of New York City.
 
 
  
 
