SILIGURI: Khalid Jamil's preparation on the eve of Sunday's CFL Premier Division championship-decider at the Kanchenjungha Stadium was typically persuasive, purposeful and personal. A light training session at the ground and then going back to the drawing board --- summoning all   players in his room at the team hotel, dissecting the opponents through various video clippings in front of them and making each one aware of his role, both individual and team-wise, in the match.

 This was what the East Bengal coach had to say later on Saturday: "Tension? No. Pressure? Yes. This is one of the toughest matches in my coaching career. This is kind of a final and there's no question of taking the opponents lightly."
 
 For   coach  , the pre-match ritual was almost the same, though in a slightly reverse order. Discussion and strategizing at the team hotel followed by a closed-door training session at the match-venue, letting the players understand first-hand what is expected of them 24 hours later.
 
 Thereafter, this was what Shankarlal had to say: "After our (1-1) draw with Rainbow AC, I had told my players that nothing has been lost and, if we can win our next three matches, we will still clinch the championship. After our wins against Mohammedan Sporting and Peerless SC, we are now facing probably the hardest hurdle against East Bengal. There may be a little bit of jinx in that East Bengal have won the CFL seven times in a row. But we are here to break that jinx."
 
 And there you are --- a "final" for Jamil and a "jinx-breaking challenge" for Shankarlal. In short, a classic winner-takes-it-all occasion to welcome the season's opening Kolkata derby between the two traditional rivals.
 
 With both teams tied 22 points from eight games each, East Bengal need a draw to seal the deal for the eighth season running thanks to a better goal difference while Mohun Bagan are in a must-win situation. However, both Jamil and Shankarlal hollered in agreement that a stalemate would be the unlikeliest denouement.
 
 Shankarlal even reminded one of what happened the last time when the two teams had faced each other in a similar situation. Back on May 23 in 2013, Mohun Bagan also came calling needing to win at the Salt Lake Stadium, but East Bengal, requiring a draw, ended up sealing a thrilling 3-2 contest, giving then coach Trevor Morgan a perfect send-off in his final match of the first stint at the club.
 
 Only defenders Arnab Mondal and Gurwinder Singh of East Bengal and Mohun Bagan goalkeeper Shilton Paul are now the lone survivors of that match, which gave East Bengal their third of the seventh consecutive title.
 
 In fact, if one takes into consideration the likely starters for Sunday's match, only seven players --- Arnab, Luis Barreto, Willis Plaza and Mohammad Rafique of East Bengal, and Mohun Bagan's Shilton, captain Kingshuk Debnath and Azharuddin Mallick --- will have the prior experience of featuring in a derby.
 
 The latest derby, thus, will throw spotlight on a number of newcomers from both sides.
 
 In East Bengal, all eyes will be on Syrian playmaker Mahmoud Al Amna and two attacking midfielders Laldanmawia Ralte and Brandon Vanlalremdika --- the trio who followed coach Jamil to the Maidan after helping   script their odds-defying I-League triumph.
 
 Mohun Bagan, on the other hand, hope that the combination of Ansumana Kromah and Kamo Bayi will rise to the occasion again and help them regain the title.
 
 The Kanchenjungha Stadium is usually regarded as East Bengal's den with Jamil even urging the fans to support his team from the stands as the "12th man" on Sunday.
 
 However, five months ago, Mohun Bagan stunned East Bengal 2-1 in I-League's second-leg clash to notch up their maiden win against the rivals at the venue and revive their championship hopes. They eventually lost the title battle to Jamil's Aizawl FC.
 
 As stakes will be high again with the CFL title in sight, the match looks to be too close to call. As the legendary Swedish pop group Abba has so aptly described the situation: "Nothing more to say/No more ace to play/The winner takes it all."
 
