Prime Minister   who’s well known for his gift of the gab, once again showcased his wit and penchant for uniquely expanding acronyms on Monday, as he came up with a new expansion for   (Goods and Services Tax). As the monsoon session of Parliament kicked off on Monday,   said the spirit of GST was about “growing strong together”, in yet another smart expansion of the acronym for India’s most ambitious tax reform since independence in 1947. "The GST spirit is about growing stronger together. I hope the same GST spirit prevails in the session," Modi said.

 GST subsumes over a dozen central and state taxes that were levied on goods and services earlier and is expected to add 2 per cent to India’s GDP (goods and services tax).
 
 This is not the first time that PM Modi has played around with the GST acronym. While launching the new tax regime in a midnight function at Parliament's central hall, the prime minister while delivering his speech had expanded GST as “good and simple tax”, which was received by a thundering applause by attendees thumping the table, a common ritual at the Parliament for expressing joy or praise.
 
 Following is a look at some other instances when the prime minister was at his eloquent best, sometimes in expanding acronyms, and at times coining new abbreviations from the world of business and economics:
 
 
  
 
 At multiple conventions, the prime minister has time and again said that   which otherwise stands for Foreign Direct Investment, for him means “first develop India”. Modi first came up with his alternative “definition” for FDI at the government’s ‘Make in India’ campaign launch in September 2014 and has used it many times ever since.
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 In September 2015, PM Modi during his visit to the United States, introduced to a large gathering of the Indian diaspora in San Jose his "JAM" style of governance. Not to be confused with any fruit preserve or becoming stuck, JAM stands for Jan Dhan-Aadhaar-Mobile. "Our mission is JAM - ' ' bank accounts for all, Aadhaar unique identity card and Mobile Governance," Modi explained during his address at the SAP center in San Jose in the Silicon Valley.
 
 
  
 
 In December 2014, while promising to make government decision-making nimble and inclusive, to push the ‘Make in India’ initiative, and prop up the manufacturing sector, Modi came up with the acronyms ABCD and ROAD.
 
 "Government is generally trapped in 'ABCD' culture from top to bottom.... A means Avoid, B-Bypass, C-Confuse, D-Delay. Our effort is to move from this culture to 'ROAD' where R stands for Responsibility, O-Ownership, A-Accountability, D-Discipline. We are committed to moving towards this roadmap," the prime minister said. Modi sought to make the traditional policy formulation model in government more open by saying that the public-private partnership model can be applied to the decision-making process itself.
 
 
 
  
 
 While launching a digital database for the Supreme Court in May this year, PM Modi said the future of the country depends on “IT+IT= IT”. He went on to explain to a bewildered audience that the cryptic acronym rich formula meant that a combination of Indian technology and Indian talent would make India tomorrow. However this was not the first time he spoke about this equation. In March 2013, as the then Gujarat Chief Minister Modi had made a mention of this formula while stressing on the fact that the political class needs to stop seeing technology as a problem.
 
 
