NAGPUR: The regional   (RTO) has, in the last three years, failed to pin down an errant school van that was registered using bogus address. The   has alleged that then motor vehicle inspector (MVI) Abhas Desai and assistant MVI Roopkumar Belsare acted hand-in-glove with the vehicle owner, who continues to go scot free.

 The Maruti Omni (MH49 J-0141) is owned by Sagar Shelke. Amol Sakure, president of Sangarsh Nagarik Manch, had written to deputy regional transport officer Ravindra Bhuyar informing him that Desai had registered the van on the basis of Shelke’s   and bank passbook on November 21, 2014. 
 
 “The owner of this van doesn’t reside at the address mentioned on Form 20 (registration application). Desai has violated Motor Vehicles Act as both the proofs of address are not acceptable for registration. Desai acted in Shelke’s favour by demanding lots of money. Immediately cancel the registration and initiate action on the officer,” the letter read. 
 
 When Bhuyar failed to act, Sakure sought Form 20, 21 and other documents furnished by Shelke while registering the van under the right to information Act on December 9, 2014. The documents provided to Sakure proved his claim. Shelke’s addresses mentioned on both the voter ID and passbook were different.
 
 On May 14, 2015, Sakure wrote to the then transport commissioner Mahesh Zagade complaining about the inaction by RTO, Nagpur city. This time, Sakure mentioned that while Desai verified the address proof, Belsare gave the inspection report. Sakure drew the transport commissioner’s attention towards the department’s drive to make RTOs free of agents. “But, the officials are indulging in same malpractices just as the agents used to fleece citizens for doing their documentation,” he wrote.
 
 Deputy RTO Bhuyar claimed Sakure is acting to settle personal scores with then MVI Desai and Shelke. “The van was detained and hearing was held. It was found that Shelke used to stay at as a tenant at Sakure’s plot. Shelke left the home after some dispute with Sakure. He is an RTO agent and had a fight with Desai. We had also imposed fine on Shelke over non-renewal of permit. The change in address, too, has been incorporated,” he said.
 
 On the different address in attached documents, Bhuyar said, “Voter ID general have incomplete address.”
 
 Sakure countered Bhuyar’s claims saying there were no end to violations by Shelke. “The   accepted by RTO states it as Heavy Motor Vechile. Shelke was staying at my house but we had never executed any rent agreement. I came to know at RTO after which I filed RTI query. It was this very reason I asked Shelke to vacant my property. Voter ID card and passbook are not acceptable as proof of address for registering a vehicle.”
 
 
