Of the 160 tonnes of garbage produced in the city each day, around 90 tonnes is   waste, predominantly disposable sanitary napkins and diapers. In a large metropolis like Bengaluru, feminine hygiene still isn’t openly discussed, not even between women. Considering the looming garbage crisis and its severe environmental effects, it is now more important than ever to talk about ‘the monthly visitor’ and the mess it leaves behind — basically, finding alternatives to the toxic disposable sanitary napkin. But how does one do away with it, considering that a woman requires it month on month? The sustainable alternative —   and  , both of which are reusable — are good for the environment, good for you and light on your wallet.

 A group of women in the city have started an initiative called   — they visit offices, NGOs and apartment complexes to spread the word on sustainable methods of menstruation. Spread across age groups, these women, all of who do this on a voluntary basis, first decided to table the event in public at a marathon for women in the city early last year. 
 
  
  
 “We didn’t think that we would get a good response, but to our surprise, many women, and even men, stopped by — the men brought their wives to our stand. After that, we started organizing it in runs across India. Now, we also hold talks in apartment complexes, offices and NGOs. And we have found that people are willing to listen to what we have to say and learn,” says  , member, Green the Red.
 
 Sindhu found that those who were most receptive were mostly married women in the 25-plus age group. A menstrual cup is a feminine hygiene product that is usually made of medical-grade silicone, shaped like a bell and is flexible. It is worn inside the vagina during menstruation to catch menstrual fluid (blood). This is why the biggest worry that women have about these cups, she says, is hymen extension, which is a myth that they bust at their talks. 
 
 “Since it is inserted in the vagina, many women are hesitant to try it at first. But if there is someone in their group who has made the switch and speaks about how comfortable it is, we have seen that women are likely to make the switch. So, it’s just a matter of getting the word out there. Many women have said that after using the menstrual cup, they sometimes forget that they are on their period. Which woman wouldn’t want that?” she adds.
 
 A video that shows the mounds of waste generated by sanitary napkins is shown as part of their session, which makes a big impact on the women. The other is the economics behind it — once you invest in a menstrual cup or a set of cloth pads, you don’t have to think about purchasing new ones every month, making it a one-time investment.
 
  
  
 
 
 Modern-day disposable pads contain several toxic chemicals such as bleach that women come in close contact with every month. These cause rashes, irritation, fungal infections and, in the long term, can result in endocrine disruption or hormonal imbalance. Here’s why alternative methods are better:
 
 
 
 
 
