LUDHIANA: About four years after a 57-year-old wholesale cloth trader of   was murdered and his wife injured by their former employee, a local court has sentenced the latter to life imprisonment. The court of additional sessions Judge Atul Kasana also imposed a fine of Rs 30,000 on the convict failing which he would have to undergo further rigorous imprisonment for one and half year. 

 On November 29, 2013, Division Number 8 police had booked   alias Chotu alias   under sections 302 (murder), 307 (attempt to murder) and 392 (robbery) of the IPC for allegedly murdering Sudhir Girdhar, owner of a whole sale cloth unit at  , and for causing multiple head injuries to his wife Neena Girdhar (53). The accused was arrested by police on the intervening night of November 30 and December 1, 2013.
 
 The additional public prosecutor argued that the prosecution witness Neena had correctly identified Naveen, who was known to her, to be the culprit. He stated that Neena has been consistent in her testimony and there was no reason for her to falsely implicate the accused. 
 
 “It was submitted that in the present case, the prosecution has proved its case beyond shadow of reasonable doubt and that the prosecution witnesses including complainant have been able to convincingly establish on record the factum that the accused committed the murder and also caused grievous injuries to the wife of deceased, which were dangerous to life. It was further submitted that the accused has been identified by injured/eye witness Neena Girdhar. He further submitted that weapon has also been recovered from the accused,” said prosecution. On these assertions, additional Public Prosecutor for the   has prayed for holding the accused guilty under sections 302, 307, 460, 392 of Indian Penal Code with which he has been charged and for convicting him accordingly.
 
 The defence counsel however argued that Neena was the sole witness examined by the prosecution and the fact that Neena did not attempt to save her husband and and raise an alarm leaves the entire occurrence highly doubtful. He further submitted that the version of the prosecution witness Rahul is that he came to the house in morning but surprisingly he did not see Neena who was allegedly spotted near the small gate and she was seen only by  . 
 
 Defence Counsel stated that the version of the investigating officer and the witness are contradictory regarding the time and place of arrest of the accused and moreover the arrest memo also does not support their version. On these submissions, he has prayed for acquittal of the accused.
 
 The judgement read that the entire case of the prosecution rests on Neena’s testimony.
 
 “Coming first to the statement of injured Neena Girdhar, she has categorically deposed regarding the manner in which the occurrence took place and as regards the accused being the assailant. She has detailed in her statement the sequence of events and her version is consistent. This witness Neena Girdhar, has been exhaustively cross examined and there are no major contradictions and there is no reason to disbelieve her version. She herself received multiple injuries on vital parts and was injured in the incident and her oral testimony is material in adjudicating the points of determination,” the judgement read.
 
