CHENNAI: When the curtain falls, for the actors here it's always back to life within prison walls, and yet, says theatre artist  , who has been taking drama lessons for lifers at   for a few months now, this is his "happiest bunch of students". 

 "I can feel the energy, the life, the anticipation, every time I enter the class. It's like they've been waiting all week for the session. They tell me it's because play-acting takes them to a different world, a happier world, even if it is just for an hour once a week," says Abbas, who is teaching his second batch of inmates, getting them ready for a performance towards the end of the year.
 
 The lifers performed their first play - modelled on the concept of clown theatre - a couple of months ago, with   being called in to Puzhal as the chief guest. "It was a big boost for the prisoners' morale. Some of the people I met here have been living within prison walls for more than 20 years," says Abbas, who is an actor with Tamil drama troupe Koothupattarai, as well as a film director.
 
 "When I began doing theatre workshops at Puzhal, I had dreams of doing the play 'Spartacus' with them because I thought the story of the Greek slave/gladiator would be inspirational. But they told me they didn't want to do anything that was 'sad'. They wanted to do something that would make them and their audiences laugh," says Abbas, which is why the director wrote an entirely new script for them titled 'What is laughter?' "As the title suggests, from beginning to end it was just about laughter," he says.
 
 "When I first began volunteering here, I was given two instructions - to never ask them about the crime they committed, and to never make promises because they can get emotional if you break your word. Still, you can tell they want to talk, because some of them open up even when you don't ask questions," says Abbas.
 
 His new batch of acting trainees at Puzhal - classes for which began on March 27, World Theatre Day -- are getting ready to perform the satire 'Pallakku Thukikal' by Tamil writer Sundara Ramaswamy, which is structured and themed along the lines of Samuel Beckett's 'Waiting for Godot'. "This one's even funnier than our last play," says Abbas, who adds that the enthusiastic inmates even create their own costumes and sets.
 
 "In our workshops we do theatre exercises and discuss art films. They do not have a chance to watch European films, so I try to bring it to life through my narration. They love listening to the stories and ask questions," says Abbas.
 
 "When you know you are going to spend your life in prison, depression can set in. Yoga, exercise, work and arts keep them occupied, happy and help them sleep at night. It also helps prevent aggression. That's why we encourage these activities," says Vijay Kumar, additional director-general of police (prisons). "We try and make sure they get a healthy dose of activities that help them earn as well as relax their minds," he adds. 
 
 "Several NGOs have helped us get volunteers to run various arts programmes in the prison," says V Rukmani Priyadarshini, superintendent of Puzhal prison -I. For instance, it was the NGO   that introduced them to Abbas and also helped find teachers for Carnatic music. "We even managed to hold a concert, where inmates learned to play instruments and sing," she says, adding that the other recreational classes include painting and sculpture. 
 
 
