Mumbai: In an attempt to expand its reach in the   sector,   and   are evaluating options of either a buyout or a merger with companies in the financial sector. 

 Mumbai-headquartered IDFC and IDFC Bank are exploring the option of a merger with Chennai-based financial services company   Group. “A merger with Shriram Group is one of the proposals that IDFC is evaluating but nothing has been finalised yet which could be taken to the board level,” a source said. A merger of the two groups could form a major pan-India player in the financial services sector with total assets worth over $10 billion (about Rs 65,000 crore). 
 
 The partners in Shriram Group are set to meet on Saturday to consider a merger of all its assets with IDFC group, sources said. Billionaire investor and dealmaker Ajay Piramal owns a 20% stake in Shriram Capital, the unlisted holding company. Piramal also holds stakes in some of the group’s subsidiaries.
 
 There is speculation in the market that   and Shriram City Union, the two listed arms within the group, could be the possible targets for IDFC and IDFC Bank. On queries from the bourses, all the companies responded that as part of corporate strategy they continuously evaluate various opportunities that could add value to their businesses and stakeholders. The companies, however, said that there was no concrete proposal before their boards of directors. The current market capitalisation of the four listed arms from the two groups are over Rs 63,000 crore, BSE data showed.
 
 “Conversations are on with 2-3 companies with the focus on expanding our retail franchise. Over the next few days we will try and figure out which one is worth pursuing,” the source said. “Once we finalise the name, we would enter into exclusive talks and undertake due diligence, arrive at a valuation for the deal, and the regulatory approvals will follow. Nothing is finalised yet,” the source said.
 
 Sources from the Shriram group said that if the merger with IDFC is sealed, it would involve all the businesses of the group, including financing of commercial vehicles, homes, consumer goods, life and general insurance, stock broking, distribution of financial products and wealth management. 
 
 On a stand-alone basis, the two groups hardly compete with each other so a merger will be of businesses which are complementary in nature, and the same could be said about their geographical presence too, market players said. IDFC is into infrastructure and development financing entity, while IDFC Bank is a commercial lender which started its operations in October 2015.
 
 After market players started speculating on the chance of a possible merger or buyout for IDFC, the stock prices of IDFC and IDFC Bank have witnessed strong surge, accompanied by rising volumes. In the last three days, IDFC Bank on BSE has gained over 15% and IDFC is up nearly 12%. On the other hand, Shriram Transport Finance stock is up almost 8%. In IDFC and IDFC Bank counters, Thursday’s traded volumes were more than three times what it was just a week ago. 
 
 
