MUMBAI: A sessions court on Thursday convicted and sentenced a man, his brother and an accomplice to life imprisonment for the killing of 15-year-old Abhishek Yadav, who had eloped with the man's 19-year-old daughter in 2014. Gulab Yadav (42), his brother Subhash (35) and their accomplice Chandraprakash Yadav (25) were found guilty of murder and kidnapping to commit murder.

 Abhishek's father, Vijay Yadav (42), a government employee in Delhi, said he accepted the court's verdict. “I was hoping they would be awarded the death sentence. We have two little daughters... my wife and I are living only for their sake. I could have taken the law into my hands but I had faith in the judiciary.“ Nineteen witnesses deposed in the case, among whom were the victim Abhishek's father Vijay, a friend who accompanied the couple when they eloped to Mumbai from UP and saw them being taken by the accused at Kurla station, besides an auto driver, who was last to see the victim alive as he ferried the accused to the spot of the murder.
 
 It was the prosecution's case that  , an acquitted accused, instigated his brothers Gulab and Subhash to kill Abhishek “as he had lowered their status in society“ by kidnapping the girl. The cops said Gulab, Subhash and Chandraprakash abducted the couple from   on May 28, 2014, between 4 to 4.30 pm. The accused boarded an auto they hired earlier and headed towards Nalasopara. After alighting, while Chandraprakash waited with the girl at a restaurant, the other two took the victim to some distance and stabbed him to death. Later, cops were alerted about a body at the spot. As no one came forward to claim it, they registered a case and buried it and preserved his clothes.
 
 Vijay told the court he came to Mumbai as he heard his missing son had eloped there.He said on June 4, 2014, he met the girl's family at their village in Gunavali, Jaunpur district, UP, at their insistence. They said the couple was untraceable. He returned to Mumbai and filed a missing complaint on June10, 2014. On June 16, 2014, Vijay identified his son's clothes and shoes after police called him to Valiv police station, Vasai. Next day, in his presence, cops exhumed Abhishek's body.
 
 Auto driver,  , known to the accused, said Subhash and Gulab took the boy to a hill on the highway and returned with blood on their hands. The girl told police she was told the boy was sent to his relatives. She later allegedly committed suicide.
 
