It looks like actor   has a special penchant for police officer’s roles. After playing a cop in films like Unnaipol Oruvan and Thani Oruvan, the model-turned-actor is now all set to play a cybercrime officer in his upcoming film  . CT caught up with the actor, who was in the city recently for the audio launch of the film. Excerpts from the chat…

 Inayathalam is gearing up for release next month…
 Yes…As the title suggests, the film delves into the advantages and shortcomings of internet. Internet has become so imperative in our lives that the saying ‘Mata Pita Guru Deivam’ has now become ‘Mata Pita Google Deivam’. Today, a number of issues are addressed through social media. One could tweet to a minister and sort out an issue. The internet has also played a crucial role during crisis situations like that of Chennai floods. Information is knowledge and power. At the same time, the internet has its ugly side too- take for instance, social media obsession, trolling and cyber crime. That’s what we have explored in the film.
 
 The film seems to have a strong Coimbatore connection…
 The film’s directors Shankar and Suresh both hail from the city and a majority of the portions are shot here. At a time when content-driven cinema is receiving a lot of support from the audience, I believe the directors couldn’t find a better time for their film debut. Despite the fact that they are novices in the industry, their research and commitment toward the film is phenomenal. I would say that the industry has got two amazing talents. The writer of the film Coimbatore-based Marabin Maindhan Muthaiah, is an accomplished writer and it was a great opportunity to work him. He even released a book about the dos and don’ts of social media while working on the film. I also got the opportunity to work with the likes of Y Gee Mahendra, Delhi Ganesh, Suganya, Shwetha Menon and Erode Mahesh.
 
 You have shot a high-risk stunt scene at the Kari Motor Speedway, Chettipalayam
 The scene will be the highlight of the film. I have never shot for a race sequence as an actor and it was quite a challenge. There were four to five racing professionals who guided me throughout the scene and offered me some crucial tips. Coimbatore has been a huge inspiration for motor sports.
 
 You play a cybercrime officer in   as well…
 The similarity ends there. 7 Naatkal has nothing to do with cyber crime. The story revolves around an incident that happens in seven days. I play Prabhu Sir’s adopted son and have sported a salt and pepper look in the film. It’s a very intriguing character. The film is directed by Gautham VR and the star cast includes Shakthi and Nikesha Patel. Both films are slated for May release and I hope there’s a sufficient gap between both.
 
 What’s the status of  , the Hindi remake of Polladhavan?
 I have started dubbing for the film. I play the villains brother, originally played by Daniel Balaji in Vetri Maaran’s film. Certain changes have been made to the script to cater to the Hindi audience. The story is set in the underbelly of Banaras and deals with the cocaine mafia that used to smuggle drugs in their bikes. There is a lot of action and energy in the film. The audience, who are used to seeing me in a sophisticated and suave look, will see me in a rugged avatar with an Aghori baba tattoo on my arm and a long scar on my cheek. The action scenes are choreographed by Sham Kaushal of Gangs of Wasseypur fame and the film is directed by Shekhar Suri.
 
 Are you planning to continue doing action-oriented roles?
 I want to do all kinds of roles. It just happened that people saw in a particular role and made me similar offers. I want someone to break me from the mould and conceive me in a different avatar. Shekhar Suri has done that in Guns of Banaras and I am waiting for someone to do that in Tamil.
 
 It’s been 8 years you made your debut with Abhiyum Naanum. How would you rate your journey so far?
 I consider it phenomenal considering the fact that I have absolutely no film background and connections. I gave up my job as a software engineer to pursue modelling. I started my film career a tad late, but was lucky to be part of a cross-over film like Angrez. I am fortunate to have worked with actors like Kamal Haasan, Mohanlal and Nagarjuna. I think it’s the attitude towards life that shapes one’s personality. I consider myself god’s favorite child and do not let any negative thoughts or actions affect me.
 
 Your wife Nisha is part of the small screen. Are there any chances of you both coming together for a film or TV programme?
 I am an entertainer and as long as the work excites me, the platform is irrelevant. Nisha and I have hosted shows together and we are open to working together. But, just because we are real life couples, is not a justified reason for that. The project has to be interesting enough.
 
