AHMEDABAD:   Narendra Modi met all the senior   of Gujarat unit as well as the state ministers at the dinner hosted by chief minister   and his official residence on Tuesday night. 

 While the BJP leaders and party workers were expecting Modi to address them, he avoided any such speech and instead met them informally. He held nearly 90 minutes deliberations with Rupani, deputy chief minister Nitin Patel, state BJP president Jitu Vaghani and MLAs and MPs. Three union ministers from Gujarat - Purushottam Rupala, Mansukh Mandaviya and Jaswantsinh Bhabhor were also present.
 
  This was the first meeting of Modi with the BJP cadre after he took over as the PM in May 2014. The meeting assumes signifcance as it comes in the build up to the assembly elections scheduled later this year. 
 
  spokesperson Bharat Pandya said, “Prime Minister Narendra Modi's Gujarat visit has infused new energy in the party unit. Congress leaders are jealous of the prestige, personality and influence of Modi-Shah pair.”
 
 Earlier, Modi also addressed party workers on his arrival at the Ahmedabad airport. Dwelling on the Vibrant Gujarat summits, he said that majority of other states have started similiar summits to attract investment rather than depending upon a “subsidy culture”.
 
 “We set a tradition of Vibrant Gujarat in 2003. Initially, many people were mocking it. Today, over 70% of Indian states are organizing national and international summits for capital investment on the lines of the Vibrant Gujarat summit,” Modi said. 
 
 “The can do branding, they can have image makeovers of their governance and moreover it is an attempt to create a development-friendly environment by attracting investment rather than depending upon a subsidy culture,” added Modi.
 
 The PM said his government’s smart city concept made cities take a challenging route and Gujarat has succeeded on that route.
 
 “When the first phase was going on, Banaras did not get the chance. The people of Banaras would have been thinking that the PM is from our place and their work would be done, but it could not happen because the route is challenging. Fortunately, many cities of Gujarat have succeeded on this challenging route,” Modi added.
 
 PM also claimed that rating agencies and global financial institutes like the World Bank and International Monetary Fund (IMF) have said that India is the best place for investment on the entire globe.
 
