NEW DELHI: BJP   Deen Dayal Upadhyay, in his writings, had said that fight against   should not be a fight of ‘Hindiwallahs’ alone, but a common cause of all regional languages. His views on Indian languages gain prominence considering that ruling   at the Centre is facing criticism over its attempt to “impose Hindi” in Tamil Nadu and Karnataka.
 
  Upadhyay felt only “Sanskritised, and not Anglicised or Persianised, Hindi” was the need of the hour, which is what the Sangh is seeking to promote. “We should not have kept the English rule. The thirst for swarajya (self-rule) cannot be quenched by surajya (good rule). Today, the need for swabasha (own language) cannot be fulfilled by subhasha (good language).” “If English goes, its place will not be taken by   alone, but jointly by Hindi and other regional languages. Nobody conceives that legislative and administrative work in Kerala will be transacted in Hindi, but Malayalam cannot come unless English is dislodged.”
  
  In his writings in 1959, which have been compiled as his political diary, he had said it was for obvious reasons that Hindi was considered a lingua franca and that it occupied a place of prominence much before the Constitution was passed. He wrote that Hindi “has been a natural vehicle for intercommunication during the freedom struggle and that 1857 revolt too was hatched in Hindi”. He, however, acknowledged that the task of introduction to Hindi should be done without prejudice or confusion. “Even at the risk of losing access to modern scientific knowledge we should free ourselves from the clutches of the foreign tongue.”
  
  “The fight is not against regional languages but against English, against our mental slavery to English,” he said in an article on September 14, 1959. “It is true, of late, that some kind of fear has grown in some of the non-Hindi speaking people that if Hindi comes in their chances of recruitment to the all-India services, etc would be less… Knowledge of Hindi should at no time be considered necessary.
  
  After recruitment, arrangements should be made to impart to the employees a working knowledge of Hindi. Competitive exams should be held in regional languages.” Upadhyay was critical of PM Nehru’s belief that new words cannot be coined but needed to evolve from common man. “Will PM Nehru like the governor to be called ‘lat sahib’ or the president to be called ‘bara lat’ instead of the chaste Rajyapal or Rashtrapati. Words like Rajya Sabha and Lok Sabha…were not evolved but coined by the slot machine formula that the PM Nehru had ridiculed.”
  
  Mahesh C Sharma, ex-MP and chairman of Research and Development Foundation that has compiled the works of Upadhyay, said: “He believed one has to get out of mental slavery driven by the use of English. He would have preferred Sanskrit for official work as he believed i twas India’ssoul.” 
