PUNE: The state government cleared the development plan in January just before the announcement of the  , but   (DCR) will remain out of sight for some more times because of the  .

 They will not be published till the end of the election process till February end. The DC rules are important for the overall development of the city especially the real estate sector. 
 
 “The DP was announced on January 4 and the notification was issued on January 5. We were expecting that the rules will be published in the next few days. Now, they are stuck up in the election code of conduct and matters will not progress for at least one and half months,” a senior PMC official said.
 
 Though the reservations in the plan have been announced, they have limited impact on citizens as they deal mostly with the amenities related to civic works. 
 
 The DC rules affect the people directly as they will bring more clarity regarding floor space index, transfer of development rights (TDR) and other benefits which can generate good sentiments in the market.
 
 “People and developers are waiting for these DC rules. Many real estate projects are lagging behind due to the absence of new rules. They hope the new rules will have better policies for congested areas, dilapidated wadas and reconstructions. Until the picture is clear, the building plans have been kept on hold,” a civic official said.
 
 The state government has approved 850 of 937 reservations proposed in the draft plan. A committee, appointed under divisional commissioner S Chockalingam, had submitted a draft plan to the state government in September 2015. The committee was appointed after Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) general body had failed to approve the plan within the stipulated time.
 
 The civic election department said a quick decision about DC rules seems difficult as it may impact voters. “There are restrictions in taking decisions during the code of conduct period. The state government or the local self government bodies cannot take any such decisions which can influence the voters,” election officer Satish Kulkarni said.
 
 Municipal commissioner Kunal Kumar said they have not received the DC rules as yet. “We have learned that the work of drafting the DC rules is under way, but have not got them as yet,” he told TOI.
 
 As per building permissions department, an average of 4,500 building permissions are issued every year in the city from which the civic body generates around Rs 700 crore revenue.
 
