PUNE: The BJP hopes to build on its success in the Centre and Maharashtra by stamping its authority in the ten municipal corporations in the state which go the polls on Tuesday. A good showing by the party will establish its status as the dominant political force in the state, but its friend-turned-foe, the Shiv Sena, and the Congress-NCP combine are bent on interrupting this dream.

 The election results, particularly that of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), will have major political repercussions on politics in the state. The BJP has played second fiddle to the Sena all these years and is now giving its all to wrest the BMC, which is Asia’s richest civic body, from the latter. On the other hand, Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray has put the BJP-led state government on notice after deciding to part ways with its alliance partner of 25 years. As many as 13 political parties are in the fray in Mumbai but the main fight is between the BJP and the Sena.
 
 The BJP will take on the Sena in Mumbai, Thane, Ulhasnagar and Nashik and lock horns with the Congress and NCP in Pune, Pimpri Chinchwad, Solapur, Nagpur, Amravati and Akola. The stakes are especially high for chief minister  , who was projected as the party’s face during the high-octane campaign which concluded on Sunday. 
 
 In Thane, the Sena and BJP are going solo after having ruled the civic body as a combine for the last 15 years. The Congress and NCP, who were having a tough time keeping their flock together, are contesting the polls together. 
 
 In Ulhasnagar, the Sena has made an election issue out of the BJP tying up with local satrap Pappu Kalani’s son Omi. All parties are playing the Marathi and Sindhi card out here. The Sena has promised big sops to Mumbai, Thane and Ulhasnagar, which include a blanket exemption from paying property tax to houses admeasuring up to 500 sq ft.
 
 In the twin cities of Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad, former deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar of the NCP has seen several of his close heavyweights deserting the party and joining the BJP. The NCP is banking on a division of votes between the BJP and the Sena to retain power. The expected closeness of the contest in both cities can be gauged from the numerous rallies by the political top brass of all parties, and by NCP president   in particular, in the last phase of electioneering.
 
 Of the 10 municipal bodies going to the polls, Raj Thackeray’s MNS is in power only in the   but is struggling for survival as most of its 40 corporators have shifted loyalties to other parties. The BJP has been trying to divert the MNS vote base to its kitty but the Sena, which is seeking to make inroads in this north Maharashtra city, is doing its best to stymie that.
 
 In Solapur, former Union minister   is toiling to maintain his clout on the municipal corporation, with many of his loyalists now in the opposition camp. The Congress has ruled here for over 40 years and is presently saddled with a big anti-incumbency factor. The fight here is triangular between the Congress, the BJP and the Sena. 
 
 Interestingly, the problems on Fadnavis’ home turf Nagpur are of a different nature. Here, the BJP faces a threat from disgruntled RSS and BJP cadre and the intervention by Union minister   doesn’t seem to have smoothened ruffled feathers. In Akola and Amravati, the fight is between the Congress and the BJP with the former in a spot of bother after having failed to calm its warring factions. Political observers say that despite its strong network in Vidarbha, the BJP could well struggle to get a majority in the three corporations.
 
