PUNE: A special court here has ruled that consent for sex by a girl below 16 years of age is not tenable in the eyes of the law. The court has sentenced a youth to 10 years’ rigorous imprisonment for raping a 14-year-old girl in Chinchwad during the Navratri festival in September 2014.

 The, accused   (21) of   in  , had taken a defence that he was involved in an affair with the survivor (name withheld) and had “consensual sex” with her. The survivor admitted that her parents were opposed to their marriage but, denied having consented to the physical relations. 
 
 The girl had left her home on the evening of September 29, 2014, to participate in ‘Dandia’ at a nearby place where Shinde, who had been seeing her for more than a month, met her. He took her to a secluded spot near a temple on the banks of Pavana river in Chinchwad and forced her into sexual intercourse.
 
 Shinde’s lawyer had contested the survivor’s age as, according to her school records, her date of birth is October 4, 2001 while the opinion of a medical expert from the Sassoon hospital stated her age to be between 15 and 17 years, with a margin of error. He cited a document from a primary health centre where the girl’s mother had delivered her, and claimed the girl’s date of birth was November 28, 1999. Prosecutor   argued that the girl’s school-leaving certificate was enough to establish her age. 
 
 In his judgment, special judge (POCSO) N G Gimekar held that, even going by the defence’s argument, the girl was still 13 years and 10 months old as on September 29, 2014. As such, she was below 16 years of age. “The defence did not deny the fact that on the relevant date, time and place, the accused had physical relations with the girl,” the judge said.
 
 The court held that there was no material on record to disbelieve the girl’s testimony, which can be the sole basis for conviction, and that her testimony stood corroborated by medical evidence. The prosecution has proved its case so far as charges of rape and penetrative sexual assault were concerned, it ruled.
 
 The court sentenced Shinde to 10 years’ rigorous imprisonment for the offence under Section 376 (2) (i) of the Indian Penal Code, which deals with rape on minors, and seven years in jail for offence under Section 4 (penetrative sexual assault) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. The sentences are to run concurrently.
 
 
