CHANDIGARH: The Congress made poll promises worth “Rs 10,000 crore” in its 121-page manifesto released for the   on Monday. 

 The poll document, released by former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh in New Delhi and the party’s Punjab leaders in five cities of the state, includes promises to shut down 5 % of liquor vends in the state every year to discourage drinking, bring an end to VIP culture with restrictions on the use of red beacons, form a new ministry for defence personnel and war veterans, abolish “mafias” operating in the state, and put an end to the drug menace within four weeks of coming to power.
 
 The manifesto promises to freeze power tariff for industry at Rs 5/unit for the next five years.   draft committee co-chairman Manpreet Singh Badal admitted that funds to the tune of Rs 10,000 crore would be needed for fulfilling the promises. “This can be achieved by increasing revenue generation and reducing government expenditure,” he said. “Rooting out mafias operatinwould itself lead to a massive increase in revenue generation, thereby putting the state’s finances on the right track and bringing it out of its current fiscal mess,” he said.
 
 In Delhi,   president Captain  , who was present along with Manmohan Singh, pointed out that the next government in Punjab would be taking over a fiscal deficit of over Rs 5,000 crore, and the state could be brought back on track with out-of-the-box thinking.
 
 Amarinder said the Congress manifesto covered every section of society and was realistic. “It is unlike that of the AAP, which is making separate manifestos that cannot be implemented,” he said. 
 
 
 
 
 Drugs: In its latest election document, Punjab Congress has reiterated party vice-president Rahul Gandhi’s charge that 70% of Punjab’s youth was hooked to drugs, and blamed the SAD-BJP regime for the menace of “chitta” (synthetic drugs), “introduced and propagated” by the ruling alliance 
 
 ‘Mafias’: The manifesto also accuses SAD of being hand in glove with mafias in 13 sectors, including transport, cable, liquor and lottery.
 
 Farm suicides: The failure of the ruling alliance to check farmer suicides and incidents of sacrilege has also been included in the manifesto. 
 
 Police reforms: The party promises review territorial restructuring of police stations by the SAD-BJP government, and eliminate politician-police nexus by bringing in police reforms. 
 
 
 : The poll document promises that the Congress would abolish red beacons on all vehicles, except emergency vehicles. It has also promised a 90% cut in security of politicians and officials. Use of helicopter even by the CM will be forbidden, it has said. 
 
 New lokpal bill: Congress has promised to introduce a new Lokpal Bill, which will give the state ombudsman powers to take action even against the CM. A third-party audit of all government expenditure in past three years will also be conducted. 
 
 Halqa system: In the manifesto, the party has promised to do away with the “halqa in charge” system introduced by the SAD.
 
