If you’re a daily commuter in Mumbai, you’ve cursed and blamed the city’s terrible   snarls every time your car has come to a virtual standstill during peak hours. And it’s only getting worse. According to a recent news report, in the last five years alone, there has been a staggering rise of 50 per cent in the number of vehicles in the city.

 So, what’s the solution? Many would believe it’s carpooling. In fact, in a bid to combat congestion and rising   levels, many taxi services have already launched campaigns to encourage Mumbaikars to share their transport vehicles. But despite these measures, the number of private cars and SUVs have reached a nine-lakh landmark, which means Mumbaikars aren’t ready to share their vehicles just as yet. While Delhi is the leading metro in India when it comes to sharing rides (31 per cent), Mumbai is still behind at (less than 20 per cent). What’s stopping us?
 
 
 City-based driver Harun Yadav, who offers share rides on his taxi aggregator, explains why carpooling to work in the morning is not a feasible option for many. “Though the fare is cheaper by more than 30 per cent, office-goers are hesitant to try it because of the amount of time it takes to reach their destination, especially in a city like Mumbai. Even if two passengers live just a few minutes away from each other, because of the traffic and the condition of the roads, the detour increases the time significantly. Passengers are always cribbing about this and sometimes, I’ve been forced by customers to cancel a pick-up, which required me to take a detour.” Prateek Jain, who frequently travels in cabs, echoes the sentiment. “During peak hours, you can’t share a ride because it takes a long time to reach your destination, especially if you’re travelling from one end of the city to another. Plus, the driver has to keep making stops; it’s a nightmare to spend so many hours in a confined space. I’d rather pay a little more and take a private ride,” he says. 
 
 
 Even if you’re carpooling from the same location, timings can be an issue. Media professional Ishita Sen takes her office’s drop facility back home when she works late. But she shares the glitches she faces, “Even when I’m done with my work, I can’t leave office, as I have to wait for my other co-workers to get done. After a long day at work, you just want to get back home early; waiting even for those few extra minutes can be extremely exasperating. Due to this, many times, I’ve forgone the office carpooling ride and gone on my own.” 
 Many corporates provide their employees free carpooling services. But people prefer investing in their own car because Indians consider car ownership as a status symbol. Besides, it also means that they aren’t dependant on unreliable transport facilities. 
 
 
 Carpooling with random strangers throws up other issues like lack of privacy and the forced companionship of a complete stranger in the car! With incidents of women being assaulted and molested on the rise, this is just another area of concern for female passengers. Smita Vora, who works in an ad agency and often travels late at night, says, “While some cab services have tried to solve the ‘anonymity of fellow commuter’ issue by adding social media logins to their service, and added panic buttons on their apps, there is no guarantee of safety. Also, sometimes you want to work on your laptop or make personal calls, but with a stranger in your car, you can’t risk giving out any private information.” 
 
 
 metros are still trying to get used to the idea of carpooling, until there is more involvement of the government, it will take time to become popular with the masses. Abir Punju, who works with an app-based shuttling service, adds, “Apart from reducing congestion and pollution, carpooling has the potential to improve urban mobility in cities and so, Mumbaikars must keep their apprehensions aside and try it.”
 
 
 In 2016, Ronak Kotecha, a media professional who offered lifts to people from Dahisar to Bandra regularly, was fined by the police for sharing rides! He was booked under Sec 66 (1) of the Motor Vehicle Act and his license was also taken away. The rationale offered by the police was that many drivers are using carpooling as a mode of earning money. As per the traffic department, the idea could be misused for commercial purpose. This incident led to many car owners becoming hesitant to the idea of sharing rides.
 
 
 
 Last year, the residents of a housing society in Kandivali turned singers and recorded an anthem on carpooling, to spread an environment-friendly message. This anthem, which was uploaded online and on social media, was made by members of a WhatsApp carpooling group. In this group, members communicate when they want a lift or can accommodate an extra person in their car and details of where they are headed.
 
 
