India is a nation of cricket-obsessed people, where the game is the religion and its players, the revered Gods! But people’s fixation with the sport, which was always restricted to the men playing the game, now includes the women in blue, too! Earlier this month, India’s women cricket team beat their Pakistani counterparts in the on-going ICC Women’s World Cup, making everyone sit up and take notice of them. With this women’s World Cup perhaps being the most-viewed female cricket tournament ever, more and more Mumbaikars have been switching on their TVs to catch the action live, something that didn’t happen till recently. As India faces New Zealand in a crucial do-or-die match today, we speak to sports lovers in the city and ask them what has changed about women’s cricket that is getting them hooked on to the game.

 
 
 Women’s cricket piqued 31-year-old HR consultant Radhika Sethia’s interest when the internet went crazy over visuals of   (captain of women’s team) calmly reading a book on the sidelines just before her turn to bat. Says Radhika, “Captain Cool was a tag we only associated with MS Dhoni. But now, after watching Mithali so calm and composed on field, I think she deserves it, too. She has taken the team to victory in their opening match against England and she did it with swag!” Radhika believes social media has a big role in popularising cricketers.
 Another cricket fan, entrepreneur Parth Bhanushali says that he started watching these matches by chance. “I was switching channels, when I came across an after-match press conference with Mithali. A journalist asked her, ‘Who is your favourite male cricketer?’ She silenced the scribe by asking, ‘Do you ask such questions to the male cricketers too?’ I became a fan right away.” Parth is now looking forwards to today’s match. He says, “We will definitely see the women in blue reach the finals and win that too. My favourite player is  , one of the fastest bowlers in the world. Her performance in the World Cup has been brilliant so far. I’m also fond of Ekta Bisht, who took five wickets in the India-Pakistan match.”
 
 
 
 Umesh Dubey, who umpires women’s cricket matches, shares why more Mumbaikars are watching the matches. He says, “Till a few years ago, the women’s team wasn’t a part of BCCI’s portfolio and was managed separately. But after the team came under them, the players started getting better facilities, kits and training staff. They started playing more matches and went on tours abroad. Their skill level has gone up and all these factors have led to the betterment of their game. Also, stars like Mithali,  , Jhulan and   have emerged. The moment you start doing well and winning matches, you get noticed and that’s what’s happening with women’s cricket. Today, they have more exposure. Viewers have started believing in their game and are even going to stadiums to watch them. I am confident they will do even better in the future.”
 Restaurateur Sunil Mattoo, who also follows the game, says that it’s not just spectators, but even the support of the Indian men’s team has helped them gain more visibility. “They tweet about them and encourage their game on various social media platforms. In fact, even their matches trend online. We are also one of the strongest teams in the world. Our girls are playing really well and ever since they beat England, they have shown great promise, which has gained them a fan following,” he says.
 
 
 
 Farokh Baria, an avid cricket fan, watches every single match that the men’s team plays. This time, though, he decided to watch the women play. He says, “I'm watching them for the first time and I’m very impressed. Players like Punam Raut are great on the field. You can tell that they're giving it their all. I genuinely hope they win the World Cup. In fact, I don’t see why our women players are not included in the IPL as well. It will be interesting to watch them.”
 Korak Roy, a media professional, believes that Australia’s Women’s Big Bash League (domestic Twenty20 cricket competition in Australia), made women’s cricket popular in their country. And, though India has a women’s T20 team, they should also have an IPL tournament. “Our own talents like Harmanpreet and Smriti have played in the Big Bash and performed phenomenally well. BCCI needs to start a women’s cricket league to boost popularity amongst youngsters. This will also encourage more girls to join the game.”
 
