Panaji: Indian football great   is having second thoughts about joining  , despite a statement earlier in the day that he was ‘honoured’ to have joined the outlawed league.
 
  Futsal, a five-a-side variant of football played indoors, shot into prominence in India last year when Premier Futsal, a franchise-based league, was held for the first time. There were football greats like  , Paul Scholes, Ryan Giggs and Hernan Crespo as marquee players but most of India’s best-known footballers, and officials, stayed away.
  
  The signing of Bhutia would have been a great advertisement for Premier Futsal ahead of Brazilian legend Ronaldinho’s scheduled visit to Mumbai on Friday. Bhutia, too, appeared convinced about the project but the former India captain was being coerced to turn his back on the league and continue his association with the   ( ) where he is advisor to the president, Praful Patel.
  
  “I don’t know how statements (quoting me) emerged earlier but I have neither resigned from the AIFF nor signed up with Premier Futsal. It’s true there have been talks going on with Premier Futsal for some time now but nothing has been signed. As of now, I continue to be with the AIFF,” Bhutia told TOI late on Thursday.
  
  The AIFF has made it clear that they do not recognise Premier Futsal – a semi-professional, private league, conducted in collaboration with Futsal Association of India – and has warned those who associate themselves with the league that they would be left out of mainstream football activities.
  
  According to sources, Bhutia’s decision to quit AIFF on Thursday and join hands with Premier Futsal stunned the federation and soon enough there were attempts to placate Indian football’s most influential voice. Bhutia is understood to have seen reason; associating with Premier Futsal would mean he would miss out on associating himself with the AIFF,  , Indian Super League and, more importantly, Fifa U-17 World Cup later this year.
  
  “Bhutia has spoken to AIFF and assured that he will continue. He will not associate himself with Premier Futsal,” said a senior AIFF official.
  
  Earlier in the day, agency reports quoted Bhutia as saying that he was pleased with his association with the project as head of its talent hunt programme.
  
  
  
