HYDERABAD: With only one week left for the holy   to begin, doctors in the city are advising   to fast to undergo   checks with regard to blood glucose levels and   adjustments for existing ailments. Since   longs hours of abstinence from food and water, doctors suggest undergoing basic tests to rule out onset or complication of diabetes, hypertension and other borderline health issues.

 Caution while fasting is of special importance this year as Ramzan falls during summer and the mercury level is set to increase in the coming days. The arrival of the southwest monsoon will also bring in its wake certain infections. The monsoon is likely to set in during the first week of June, but Ramzan will conclude only on June 25 or 26.
 
 “Thousands of diabetics (type I and II) in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh prefer to fast. Worldwide, about six million people with diabetes fast during Ramzan. The risks associated with fasting for diabetic patients include low or high blood sugar, dehydration and blood clots. These conditions are often seen in patients whose drug doses and timings are not adjusted,” said Dr Aftab Ahmad, specialist in internal medicine, Apollo Hospitals, Secunderabad.
 
 He recommends that besides pre-Ramzan assessment and education, self-monitoring of blood sugar should be done to find out if blood sugar is under control.
 
 In his nutritional advice, Dr Ahmad recommends avoiding eating large quantities of food rich in carbohydrates and fats at Iftar as they delay digestion and absorption. At Sahar, one should take more complex carbohydrates to keep the stomach full. Complex carbohydrates are absorbed slowly. One should also avoid consuming spicy foods and increase fluid intake during non-fasting hours.
 
 Senior nephrologist Dr Mohammad A Rafey also stands by this rule. He recommends consuming lots of fluids between Iftar and sleep so that the body can adjust fluid levels in time for Sahar and withhold the pressures of the subsequent long hours of fasting. He also recommends avoiding all sorts of refined foods.
 
 As Ramzan involves a lot of physical activity in the form of regular prayers and late night Tarawih prayers, doctors say the repeated cycles of rising, kneeling and bending as part Namaz will help keep the body fit and healthy. But not following a strict diet regime can undo all the benefits of this.
 
