MUMBAI: To see India at a   remains the ultimate dream of every Indian football fan. But for a country once labeled a `sleeping giant' in world football by disgraced former Fifa boss  , it certainly helps to have a more realistic outlook.

 And `qualifying regularly' for the   would be a good place to start according to India's national team captain  .
 
 “We talk about playing World Cup, this is the real benchmark,“ the   forward said on the sidelines of the national team's ongoing training camp at the Andheri Sports Complex.
 
 Stephen Constantine's men are stepping up preparations for the third and final round of the   which, for India, begins with an away fixture at Myanmar on March 28 in Yangon. It's a game Chhetri is desperate to win as it would go some way towards healing the scars of an agonising 1-0 loss to the same nation nearly four years ago, a loss that extinguished India's hopes of qualifying for the 2015 Asian Cup. “We lost and it thrashed our dreams,“ Chhetri said, the memories clearly still fresh in his mind. “We missed so many chances against Myanmar. I was so sad, the whole team was so sad. We know we have ourselves to blame for that game.
 
 “Now we a great chance to qualify for the 2019 Asia Cup. If we have to better ourselves this is a big benchmark, that we are playing the Asia Cup regularly .“
 
 The 32-year-old has, of course, experienced the thrill of playing the continent's biggest tournament for national teams at Doha in 2011. India finished bottom then, in a group also including Australia, South Korea and Bahrain that year with Chhetri scoring against both Bahrain and South Korea. “I haven't played a game against Australia, Bahrain or South Korea after that,“ he rued. “You don't get chances to play with them. So it's very important you play these big tournaments.And once you qualify for the big tournaments, you can attract big teams to come and play friendlies also. So it's very important in all aspects.“
 
 Only two nights earlier, Chhetri had been engaged with club duties as Bengaluru tackled rivals Mohun Bagan in an AFC Cup group E opener. He would score the winner in that game. The players from both teams called up by Constantine only joined the camp on Wednesday night.
 
 Ahead of the Myanmar tie, India do have a friendly against Cambodia in Phnom Penh next Wednesday , a match, which Chhetri said, would help the squad `get into the groove'. “It's not ideal of course. You want to keep playing,“ said the skipper when asked if the limited training time available to the national team was a frustrating hurdle. “The guy I want to kick yesterday is a friend now, Jeje Lalpekhlua (Mohun Bagan). It doesn't help,“ he quipped.
 
 “But it's not there. We can't be cribbing about it. Now the important thing is to improve ourselves every day and we've got 14 days now (for Myanmar). So make sure that we understand what the gaffer wants.“
 
 
