HYDERABAD: While Hyderabad went into mourning on Monday evening as the special plane from US touched down in the city with the coffin of Srinivas Kuchibhotla, the poignancy could not be missed in faraway Kansas where his friend and colleague,  , who returned from the jaws of death, made a passionate plea for tolerance in diversity. Srinivas was a victim of hate crime in Austin's Bar and Grill in  .

 Speaking to a gathering after a rally at Kansas, Madasani, 32, climbed the podium with crutches for support. The packed audience applauded as he spoke his mind on the racial attack on his friend. “I am standing here for my best friend Srinivas, who would also have done the same thing. He would have been here for me, even if the pain was more.“
 
 John Lennon's touching lyric - Imagine there's no heaven. It's easy if you try ......Nothing to kill or die for.And no religion, too..Imagine all people living life in peace -set the tone for the evening in the packed community hall in Olathe amid tears and flickering candle flames held aloft by the crowd.
 
 Thousands of citizens, both Indians and Americans, participated in a rally organized by   City, carrying placards and shouting slogans -United we stand, divided we fall.
 
 When Srinivas' friend, Madasani spoke, the audience heard in rapt attention. “I want to take this opportunity to ask not for acceptance and celebration of diversity. Describing the incident on Feb 22 at Austin's, Alok sa id, “It was rage and malice in an individual's heart that killed my friend. It is an isolated incident that does not reflect the true spirit of Kansas and the United States." The crowd responded with applause.
 
 In all the pain he suffered both in body and heart, Madasani made a light-hearted remark that put the audience at ease. “The main reason why I wanted to stand was to hide my speech," he said, showing the audience his mobile and thanking them for the applause.“What happened that night was a senseless crime. It was something we all wish did not happen, but it happened. It's hard to believe that he's (Srinivas) is not with us anymore."
 
 For most of his nine-minu te speech, Madasani spoke about Srinivas' helpful nature and how they became friends. “First, I want to thank everyone who showed up here. We are overwhelmed by the support of the people of United States.Back home in India, friends and families from Australia and New Zealand had also sent support.
 
