HYDERABAD: Road safety will soon be part of the curriculum of primary and higher education in the state. Students will be taught road safety, traffic rules and the ill-effects of traffic violations.

 Transport minister P Mahender Reddy has said discussions are on with the   and Training (SCERT) on including road safety as part of the curriculum.The minister revealed the plans during the fourth meeting of the   on Monday , and said a workshop would be held with educationalists to create awareness on road safety among students.
 
 Mahender Reddy said there were over one crore vehicles in the state and thousands of people die and get injured in road accidents every year. Though police, health, roads and buildings (R&B) and education departments were striving hard to prevent road accidents by forming a lead agency, another new department would be set up with excise, R&B, transport and police on ensuring road safety. A road safety fund would also be created, he said.
 
 With many road accidents taking place on highways due to people driving under the influence of alcohol, the transport minister said all liquor shops on national and state highways would be removed following the directions of the  .He said trauma centres have been set up in Kamareddy , Nizamabad, Mahbubnagar and Hyderabad and another 10 such centres would be set up in other districts too.
 
 R&B principal secretary Sunil Sharma, director-general of road safety  , finance secretary Shiva Shankar and home department princiapal secretary Rajiv Trivedi were present.
 
 111 accident-prone areas identified, 22 rectified, says transport minister
 
 Transport minister   said the state government had identified 111 accident-prone areas and of them 22 were rectified. Since many accidents occurred on National Highways 44, 163 and 65, 108 vehicles would be made available for every 50km to shift those injured in road accidents.He also asked the officials to ensure that 20 intensive care units are set up in hospitals and trauma centres for emergency needs.
 
