COIMBATORE: Senior members of the national commission for scheduled castes on Tuesday visited Varappalayam, a hamlet near Pannimadai in rural Coimbatore, where a group of caste Hindus assaulted nine dalits, including two women last month.

 An official in the team said the dalits in the village have been suffering varied forms of discrimination at the hands of caste Hindus. “The dalit people in Varappalayam village told us that a water tank was constructed in a dalit residential area of the village in 2010-11 and the state government spent Rs 6.08 lakh for its construction. But, as the panchayat did not use water from tank for the last seven years, the dalit people did not get water for drinking and other purposes. It is a case of discrimination against the dalits,” said S Lister, senior investigator of the commission.
 
 A Iniyan, another official, told reporters that the dalit people from the village felt insecure as they received threats from caste Hindus. “We will prepare the report and will send it to our superiors within two days. Further actions would be taken soon,” he assured.
 
 More than 50 dalit people were gathered at the Panchayat Union School at Varappalayam on Tuesday morning to welcome the team. R Anandan, a farm worker, told the investigators that school students of the village have to travel by foot at least two kilometres to reach local schools. “There is no bus facility for the residens of the village. Also, dalit students in the school are discriminated by the school cook, who hails from a non-dalit community,” he said.
 
 As many as 399 women and 390 men are living in the 220 houses at the village. Over 15 families belonging to Valayar community are also residing there. On the night of February 28, Kamalakannan and his younger brother Ramesh from Valayar community, fought with each other. Their neighbour Murugesan, a dalit, intervened and allegedly pushed Ramesh down. Soon, a group of people from Valayar community started to assault dalit people and as many as nine dalits, including two women, suffered injuries in the assault. They were admitted at the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital and based on their complaint, Thudiyalur police registered cases against 10 people under the SC/ST (prevention of atrocities) act, 1989 and arrested them.
 
 The arrested have been lodged at the Coimbatore Central Prison. A court has denied them bail.
 
