SHAMBHU/KAPOORI (PATIALA): With   (INLD) of Haryana and some radical groups of Punjab giving a call to their supporters to assemble on either sides of the Patiala-Ambala border over the   (SYL) canal, police departments of the two states went into overdrive on Sunday to prevent any law and order trouble in the region.

 Punjab Police have called for 20 companies of paramilitary forces and will depute its own personnel in large numbers at all entry points of the state on February 23. Haryana Police have also sought additional forces from its academy in Madhuban, near Karnal.
 
 After INLD gave a call last week to its supporters to march to Patiala to re-dig the canal, radical Sikh groups   (AISSF) and Dal Khalsa asked their supporters to gather along the border to stop the INLD workers. 
 
 Ambala superintendent of police (SP) Abhishek Jorwal told TOI that he visited border areas of the district on Saturday to chalk out detailed plans to keep law and order under control. He said INLD leaders met him and assured him that the February 23 event would be peaceful. “However, we are not taking any chances. I have asked for additional forces just in case things get out of hand,” he said.
 
 Though Kapoori, which was the hotbed of the Akali ‘morcha’ against SYL canal in 1982, looked peaceful on Sunday, preparations put in place on the 2.1-km road connecting this village with Haryana’s Ismailpur village in Ambala, where INLD would be launching its ‘Dig SYL Campaign’, make it clear that security agencies are not leaving anything to chance.
 
 Punjab Police have already got a wall constructed on a non-operational old road near Shambhu border, fearing that INLD activists may gain entry to Punjab using it. The wall was constructed overnight and a team of senior police officials, including Patiala range inspector general of police (IGP) B Chander Shekhar, Patiala range deputy inspector general of police (DIG) Ashish Chaudhary and Patiala senior superintendent of police (SSP) S Bhoopati, visited the spot to take stock of the situation.
 
 A visit to Shambhu barrier revealed that police had already sent additional barricades along with sandbags to seal the Punjab-Haryana border. The number of cops posted at the nearby police post has also been increased. Besides, the services of intelligences agencies on both sides of the state border have also been pressed into service to get intel on anything that can go wrong on February 23.
 
 DIG Chaudhary said they were prepared to deal with any sort of eventuality. “The matter is being monitored at the highest level. We cannot allow anything to go wrong. A detailed plan to put up security arrangements has been worked out. We are also monitoring all kind of movements at the entry points to the district. We will not allow anyone from outside to enter Punjab and create any situation that can be detrimental to law and order,” he said.
 
 INLD had recently announced that its workers would assemble at Ambala’s grain market on February 23, and that its supporters will march from there to Ismailpur, about a kilometre away from the Punjab border, and start digging the SYL canal. In response to INLD’s call, AISSF and Dal Khalsa had also announced that they would reach Kapoori to counter any such move.
 
 
