Kanpur born   is one such singer of Bollywood who remains more in news for his controversial tweets rather than his songs. Be it the controversy related to abusing a lady journalist or calling actor   a "disloyal Indian" on Twitter,   is known to voice his opinion freely. During his recent visit to Lucknow and Kanpur, Abhijeet talked about UP politics and why people think that he is more into politics than singing.

 
 Although he’s deeply interested in politics, Abhijeet insists that netagiri is not his cup of tea. "This election, many political parties approached me to campaign for them in UP but I preferred to stay away from all of it. Waise toh UP waalon ke khoon main hi politics hoti hai aur main bhi politics kar sakta hoon, par main jo kar raha hoon, ussi mein khush hoon. Student politics used to be very strong when I used to study in   in Kanpur. College ke dino main mere khuch doston ne mujh se kaha ki Abhijeet ladkiyon ke beech main tumhari acchi image hai toh iss baar student union ka election lad jao, pukka jeet jaoge. Taking their advice seriously I decided to contest for the student union election," says the singer. 
 
  He adds, "Par jaise hi opposite side ke student leader ko mere election ladne ka pata chala woh sab mere pass aa gaye. One of the chhattra netas took out a tamancha (country made pistol) and threatened me to withdraw my nomination. I was all alone and could not fight with them at that moment but I took the threat very seriously and ussi din se politics se tauba karli. People say that I indulge in politics when I voice my opinion on national issues but it’s not so, I am only saying what my heart feels."
 
  
  (BCCL/  )
 
  
 An opinionated Abhijeet feels that people in the state are greatly influenced by caste and community, and if this mentality continues to remain, the day is not far when there will be more political parties to contend with. Giving advice to the junta of the state, Abhijeet says, "Yeh jaati aur caste waad hi UP ki sabse badi problem hai. Yahan ke leaders influence voters of their caste to win the election but this is very sad. The election is not of the netas, it is of the voters. Voters should unite against such leaders and tell them that 'we are in no mood to tolerate you. We don’t want to vote for leaders on the basis of caste and creed.' Voters should only elect the candidate who is a deshbhakt and works towards the development of the nation."
 
 
 
