PANAJI: Hours after police made the first arrest in connection to the desecration of religious structures in the state, Curchorem   MLA Nilesh Cabral and the   ( ) traded barbs over the accused Francis Pereira’s political affiliations.

 Speaking to the media after he was arrested, Cabral, whose constituency was among the worst hit with multiple crosses and graves being desecrated, said that the accused was an active AAP member.
 
 “Unfortunately, the person who has been arrested is from my own constituency and his history is now known to everyone. He was very much active with AAP during the state assembly elections and had actively campaigned for them. The same vehicle which he used during polls was being used for desecrations. I have asked the police to look into all angles into this case. Pereira told me that he was upset with Goa Forward supporting BJP and did these desecrations to put the BJP in a bad light,” Cabral said, adding that the accused had desecrated religious structures of Muslim, Christians and Hindus alike to flare communal tensions.
 
 Cabral also urged people to be wary of rumors that are currently being circulated on social media platforms.
 
 “There are all sorts of reactions that are going on in social media. I would like to clarify that I know the accused personally as he had shot a person with an air gun previously. He has temper issues,” he said.
 
 Reacting to Cabral’s statement, AAP reacted strongly and denied Pereira’s association with them.
 
 “The Aam Aadmi Party denies that the alleged culprit arrested by the police in connection with the recent incidents of desecration of religious symbols is our party volunteer. The accused,  , is neither an AAP volunteer nor was he associated in any way with our Curchorem team in any party activity. Nilesh Cabral's claim that the culprit is an ‘active supporter’ of AAP is absurd and perhaps stems from his anger at AAP’s recent agitation against the pathetic condition of roads built in Curchorem, less than a year ago,” the party said in its statement.
 
