They call themselves ‘musical wanderers venturing beyond the established traditions that shaped them’. And when we sat down to get a taste of their ‘essays’, borrowed from classical, jazz and soul idioms, we got a dicey throw of unaccustomed words and techniques, but they were highly engaging. We’re talking about none other than  , the musical ensemble of US-based Carnatic vocalist  . After regaling audiences in Chennai, New Delhi, Kolkata and Mumbai as a part of an ongoing festival, they treated Hyderabad to a delightful twist of the classical art form we are so familiar with. 

 The group, consisting of Roopa Mahadevan,   and  , integrated elements of many disparate genres and music traditions to regale the crowd in the city this Saturday. Anjana’s violin facility on violin with delightful pitch blends, Guy’s intricate yet powerful piano solos and Roopa’s vocal ability combined for an impressive concert. In contrast to Roopa’s free-flowing ragas, much of Guy’s vocal inputs, beats of drums and propelling melodies of piano were touched by the spirit of jazz and contemporary music. He wove together elements from Stride piano, Turkish Makams, Indian rhythms, Jewish melodies and Americal jazz and made the crowd go gaga over his signature style. While the ensemble’s percussionist,  , couldn’t make it (for reasons unknown), the concert was exactly what the audience had expected — a standing ovation in the end made that clear!
 
 “We probably got the best reception in Hyderabad,” said Roopa when we caught up with her after the concert. “I think people here enjoy classical music and are also open to improvisation. This may be because of the mix of cultures and religions in the city. This is the first time we performed in Hyderabad and given a chance, we would love to come back and perform again.”
 
 Speaking about Roopa in Flux, she said, “This is new for me, presenting it like a group. I’ve performed solo, made guest appearances in concerts, sang for dance performances in the back. But forming my own ensemble and performing is very new for me. Guy, Rohan, Anjana and I were friends, who bonded over a common love for music and came together for the festival. After all the love we received from people, I guess we’ll continue performing as an ensemble.”
 
 It is not often that you get to hear of someone growing up in America and developing a taste for Carnatic music. But a look into her background and everything fell in line. She spent her early years in Bay Area that has drawn thousands of Indians, thanks to Silicon Valley’s hi-tech giants and start-ups. The influx has led to an explosion of Indian arts into the area, especially South Indian music and dance — it’s the next big crossover hit after yoga and Bollywood. “I had a great teacher,  , who inculcated the love for Carnatic music in me when I was a child. After college, I decided to invest more time in building my musical skills, so I moved to Chennai in 2008. There I trained myself under  , the torch bearer of ‘Musri Baani’. I honed my skills and techniques under her, learnt concert presentation and improvisation aspects. She appreciated me in all my American-ness, not just as a friend but family. It’s thanks to both of them that I’m who I am today,” she said.
 
 Roopa has, no doubt, embraced Indian and Western music remarkably. While she heads a New York-based Indian Classical choir, Navatman Music Collective, she also follows rhythm and blues, hip hop and jazz like any other American music lover. “I grew up doing musical theatres, drama shows, singing in choirs and going to the club. Cross culture music was an anthem for so many of us in our childhood and youth, regardless of skin colour. It was through music that I developed an understanding of different cultures. It was already in my system. I’m glad that I could bring the two together,” she said.
 
 The singer-performer also believes that music has immense capacity to bring people together and foster cultural understanding. “Words can only do so much. Sometimes it can even get nasty because everyone thinks they are right. But art changes the way you think. You end up empathising instead of challenging each other. It gets you out of rationalising and more into feeling. The more we feel, the more we can relate to others’ problems instead of being self-centred. There’s so much universality to be proud of, to celebrate. It’s unfortunate that we only look at the differences and fight over them. There’s a lot of phobia, a lot of discrimination over gender and sexuality, a lot of taking away of rights we thought were inalienable, there’s a lot of policing. It’s time to turn to art to celebrate our differences and our shared 
 humanity,” she concludes.
 
