GURUGRAM: You can no longer take a picture of your vehicle’s number plate, send it to a pollution under control (PUC) certifying centre on  , and get a certificate issued on the app instantly.

 Five PUC centres which were issuing   on WhatsApp for the past year — without actually testing the vehicle for emissions — were caught by   last week. “We’ve sealed all five centres, and their testing machines, and sent them notices for irregularities. Three were located on NH-8, two more were on MG Road,” said Trilok, the RTA secretary. 
 
 Sources said there is a gang at a PUC centre behind the trend of issuing PUC certificates. “The trend probably started from a PUC centre on MG Road last year, with others following suit. They reportedly asked for photo of their customer’s vehicle number plate, digitally edit certificates on Photoshop and send them back on WhatsApp, thus saving the customers the hassle of travelling to pollution testing centres, standing in queue and getting their vehicles tested and certificates issued,” said a source.
 
 Interestingly, the centres used to fill similar data of gases emitted in all certificates, which they had stored in a digital soft copy, and generate printouts in an instant. The mandatory hologram on the hard copy of the certificate was attached later. 
 
 The centres used to charge anything between Rs 100 and Rs 200 for a fake certificate, for time periods ranging from three to six months.
 
 There are 130 authorised PUC centres in the city. All are mandated to issue physical certificates after mechanised testing of vehicles. According to The Environment Protection Rules, 1986 all petrol- and diesel-driven vehicles should comply with mass emission standards, which are measured for pollutants using a government-approved meter.
 
 “The exponential growth in number of vehicles is a major reason for increasing air and noise pollution in Gurgaon.
 
  The incident is shocking, as environmentally unfit vehicles are the biggest reason behind rise in level of particulate matter, carbon monoxide and oxides of nitrogen in Gurgaon,” said  , former member of Environment Pollution Control Authority.
 
 Even though RTA has been inspecting PUC centres regularly, the authority accelerated its drive after the   ordered inspection of all PUC centres in the city last month. 
 
 The Centre’s recent notification on enforcement of a graded response plan also directs authorities to tackle air pollution in Delhi and NCR.
 
 Early in February, the RTA seized equipment from six PUC centres on NH-8. The authorities also nabbed a cycle-rickshaw owner for running a PUC centre in his rickshaw. Before that, in September 2016, three PUC centres were caught by the Haryana State Pollution Control Board for issuing fake PUC certificates to vehicles.
 
