HYDERABAD: Management quota seats in engineering and pharmacy in Telangana may be filled through   as the Telangana State Council of Higher Education ( ) is contemplating to introduce the new system from academic year 2017-18.

 In a press note issued by the TSCHE, it instructed all private unaided engineering and pharmacy colleges to not undertake the admission process into management quota seats and to strictly adhere to relevant government orders which are expected to be released soon.
 
 The move to have online admission process comes after the Telangana government took a decision to introduce the new system for intermediate and degree courses admissions. Pharmacy college managements have welcomed the move. “We accept the decision taken by the TSCHE since we don’t indulge any kind of discrepancies such as charging excessive fee for management quota seats. However, we are awaiting to know further details on how the admissions will be conducted online,” said K Ramdass, president of Telangana Pharmacy Colleges Association.
 
 Engineering colleges have expressed their concerns over the decision. “We don’t understand why there is a need to conduct online admissions for management quota seats when they don’t fall under the fee reimbursement scheme,” said Goutham Rao, president of Telangana Private Engineering Colleges Association, adding that if the system is implemented, they will be forced to follow it.
 
 There are 120 pharmacy colleges and 202 engineering colleges in Telangana with an estimated intake of 8,000 and 1.25 lakh respectively.
 
 The notification for admissions into engineering and pharmacy colleges will be issued by the convenor of Telangana Eamcet 2017 (engineering, agriculture and medical common entrance test) on the receipt of the affiliations list from the universities. “The admission process has not yet started. Further, the managements of the colleges are required to necessarily start the process of admissions to the management seats as per government orders only after the issue of notification for admissions by the convenor,” stated the press note.
 
 The TSCHE has further advised parents and students desirous to secure management quota seats in engineering and pharmacy colleges to not resort to seeking admissions before the admission notification is declared.
 
