PUNE: For people living in and around Pimple Saudagar, February 5 brings a final chance to enjoy Happy Street this season. 

 For three hours, starting 6.30am, every member of the family can rejoice in the bouquet of exciting activities on offer at the event that will be held at its usual spot between   and   at Nashik Phata.
 
 The objective of the event is to bring a smile on participant’s faces, and what better way than to combine fun with fitness. 
 
 For the serious fitness freaks, there will be Zumba, Dance Fitness and Aerobics, while Street Soccer and badminton might interest those who have a more sporty bent of mind. Participants can also step out of their homes just to enjoy the fresh morning breeze and bring along their own skates, skateboards or even cycles to the venue. Rent-free cycles will also be provided for the duration of the programme. The cycles can be hired by furnishing a suitable identity proof.
 
 Buoyed by the popularity that the event has garnered, the boxing demonstration too will be back at the venue where participants can even enjoy a hands-on experience of the sport in the presence of experts.
 
 Apart from offering clear open spaces for children to run and cycle around without the fear of being run over by motor vehicles, there will also be structured activities organised to engage them in a bit of learning-based fun. Don’t miss the special Game Zone and an exclusive Kids Arena that will be set up for the children, besides a corner dedicated to Chalk Art.
 
 A Meditation Zone will allow participants to calm down, while the VJ Live Stage and Drum Circles will see participants exhibit their musical streak.
 
 To seal the memories of the event, a Selfie Corner will be set up for participants to click photographs with colourful and quirky accessories.
 
  is organised by The   in conjunction with Pune Police, Pune Traffic Police and Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation. The event, powered by Vilas Javdekar Developers, is aimed at popularising the concept of vehicle-free roads for fun and engaging community activities.
 
 Happy Streets will move to Baner from February 12. This will be the last location for the season.
 
