NAGPUR: After granting community forest rights (CFRs) in   (MTR), Amravati district collector Kiran Gitte has caused a flutter by asking Akot deputy conservator of forests (DyCF) to open a 10km road in core tiger-bearing area of the reserve for traffic.

 Recently, the Nagpur Bench of Bombay High Court had quashed the decision to give CFRs in tiger reserve. Now, the collector has locked himself in another controversy.
 
 According to papers in possession of TOI, four villages — Kanjoli, Ranigaon, Mothakheda, Sinman and Golai — on the fringes of tiger reserve want 10km excess through the reserve from Kanjoli to Barukheda from where the villagers want to reach places towns like Hiwarkhed and Akot.
 
 This 10km route was earlier a six-feet-wide PWD road but was closed 12 years ago as it has become part of the tiger reserve. As an alternative route was available, the road was not used.
 
 However, a demand was raised by Achalpur MLA Bacchu Kadu after the railway route between Akot-Wan-Dhulghat-Khandwa was closed from January 1. This, even though not many villagers use the train to commute.
 
 Kadu persuaded district collector Gitte at a meeting on December 31, and asked him to open the   road. Accordingly, Gitte issued a letter asking Akot DyCF to keep the road open between 6am and 10pm. 
 
 Conservationists have flayed the collector’s move. Honorary wildlife warden of   says, “The 10km route is a patrolling route and is one of the finest green patches of Melghat. It has completely become inviolate for tigers due to relocation of at least 6 villages — Ammona, Barukheda, Nagartas, Kelpani, Gullarghat and Somthana — from the core.”
 
 Bansod added that the move to open the 10km route will defeat the very purpose of relocation on which crores of rupees have been spent to create spaces for wildlife.
 
 “The villages were known for poaching wildlife and in the past poachers from here have been booked for tiger and leopard skin seizures. If the route is opened, it will be disastrous. There are water holes developed on this route which attracts tigers and other animals,” said Melghat officials on anonymity.
 
 MLA Kadu says after closure of railway route, villagers will have to travel additional 40km (to & fro), which will pinch them costwise. “There are several tourism routes in reserve so the new route will not be a problem.” 
 
 Interestingly, the area and villages concerned doesn’t fall in Kadu’s constituency.
 
 Opening of the route will not be easy as it will require mandatory permissions from   (NBWL) and   (NTCA).
 
 Earlier, in August, field director in a reply to Kadu had already expressed that opening of the said route will cause man-animal conflict and hence it would not be proper to do so.
 
