NEW DELHI: Around 100 houses were gutted and over 250 families rendered homeless after a major fire broke out in a JJ cluster outside Delhi University’s   in   on Sunday morning.

 Officials said that 30 fire tenders were rushed to the area, which consists of houses and a timber market, and it took five hours to douse the flames. An official said that the first call to inform the fire department about the incident came at 4am.   said that the extent of damage has not been ascertained yet, but residents claimed to have lost all their gold jewellery and cash, with losses running into crores.
 
 “I shifted to this colony a month ago after my house in   was gutted. Never did I imagine that history will repeat itself and we will go through this again. Last time, we had managed to escape with our savings, but this time we couldn’t save a single penny. This is like a nightmare and we have nowhere to go,” said Salim, a resident.
 
 There were many others like him. “All of us celebrate Holi together every year. And this year too, we were planning it. All the members of the locality had collected money and bought packets of colours. Who knew our Holi will turn out to be like this,” said another resident, Noorin.
 
 Fire officers said the blaze was spreading fast because of which it became difficult to control it. “Initially, we had sent six fire tenders as we were only informed of smoke coming out of the houses. However, more fire tenders had to be sent to the spot later as it turned out to be a big blaze,” said a senior fire officer.
 
 A woman saw the fire and raised an alarm because of which everyone was able to evacuate the area in time. The woman said that by the time the fire tenders came, parts of their houses had already started to collapse.
 
 “Around 3.40am, I started to choke because of smoke coming inside my house. For a moment I thought that someone has made a bonfire outside our house. When I went out to see what was happening, I noticed that our kitchen was on fire,” said Mumtaz. “I immediately started screaming and everyone woke up. As I ran out of the house with my seven-year-old son, I saw the ceiling fan of my room fall behind me,” she added.
 
 Police said that they have registered a case and are trying to find out how the fire was caused. The affected families have been shifted to temporary tents nearby.
 
