Bengaluru: French IT services major Capgemini’s India arm was faced with the unusual prospect of asking a top executive of a company it acquired,  , to pay back some of the   granted to him – because the quantum violated provisions of the   – or seek shareholder and government sanction to allow him to keep it. It decided to go with the second option, because it felt it was a contractual obligation.

  Technology Services India is seeking shareholder approval for the remuneration offered in 2015-16 to  , who was CFO of Igate and now COO of Capgemini’s North America application services. Capgemini acquired Igate in mid-2015, and given the differences in the way Capgemini and Igate remunerated its employees, Sircar’s compensation in 2015-16 turned out to be in excess of 5% of the net profit of what the Indian firm posted in that financial year. Under the Companies Act, an executive’s remuneration cannot exceed 5% of net profit.
 
 The company paid a remuneration of nearly $5 million (Rs 29.08 crore) to Sircar in 2015-16. The board has ratified the remuneration. Documents filed with the Registrar of Companies says the company has made an application before the central government seeking its approval too. The quantum of the potential refund, however, hasn’t been mentioned in the resolution.
 
 Capgemini Technology Services India hasn’t uploaded the financials for 2015-16. The company posted a profit of Rs 543 crore on revenue of Rs 3,335 crore in 2014-15.
 
 When contacted, Capgemini declined to comment on the matter.
 
 The special resolution requires approval by 75% of shareholders. In recent times, there have been instances of minority shareholders scuttling moves to pay more than 5%. In 2014, minority shareholders of Tata Motors rejected its former managing director Karl Slym’s remuneration proposal.
 
 “There is no option but to go to the central government for excess remuneration. The central government can reconsider it in the light of new facts that includes contractual or other factors. Often when they make the first application, they might not have gathered facts around the situation. Shareholder resolution cannot overwrite central government approval,” said Shailesh Haribhakti, founder and chief mentor of Baker Tilly Desai Haribhakti Consultants (DHC). Baker Tilly International is one of the world's largest accountancy and business advisory networks.
 
 Amit Khansaheb, partner in BMR Legal, said the proposal to seek shareholders consent seems to be an additional measure with the intent of ensuring good housekeeping, given that the law does not contemplate an approval of shareholders for waiver of refund. “In my view, only central government approval is required for the proposed waiver,” he said.
 
 KR Girish, founder of tax advisory firm KR Girish & Associates, said there has to be justification given to other stakeholders and proxy advisory firms advising shareholders on issues related to corporate governance at a time when there is intense scrutiny on company performance and relative pay to senior executives. 
 
 
