LUCKNOW: In a crucial point which was discovered by   working on the   death case on Saturday, it appears that   had passed   before he died. Involuntary passage of stool or urine in death is common in death following suffocation.

 The finding was detected with the help of Anurag’s photographs taken at the crime scene on early Wednesday morning. Karnataka cadre IAS officer of 2007 batch, Tewari’s body was found outside Meerabai Marg VIP guest house on Wednesday morning.
 
 While police had disturbed the original scene of crime by turning the officer’s body over, sub-inspector Vinay Sharma had clicked some photographs on his mobile phone. The police team along with experts from Mahanagar based forensic science laboratory tried to recreate sequence of events on Saturday evening. 
 
 Photographs clicked by Sharma and other professional photographers who were summoned to the spot later on, were examined thoroughly again. While zooming in, a police officer noticed some soiling on the lower. According to forensic experts, when a person is choked to death by strangulation, smothering or burking, it is normal for him to pass stool, urine and semen.
 
 As Tewari died due to asphyxia, police team were struggling to find out how supply of oxygen dropped all of a sudden in Tewari’s body in an open area. Former director of Uttar Pradesh medico-legal cell, doctor YK Pathak said that deaths due to asphyxia can only be homicidal (murder) or accidental.
 
 “A person cannot choke to death in an open space. He may have been attacked somewhere else and dumped on the road. Police needs to find out if Anurag was with somebody in moving car or SUV before he was found dead,” said Pathak.
 
 Meanwhile, SIT visited KGMU pathology department on Sunday to take samples of Tewari’s heart and submit it to Mahanagar forensic laboratory for examination. SSP Deepak Kumar said, “I will seek opinion of forensic doctors at AIMS if the need arises and family seems unconvinced. I will extend all support to them and will bring out only facts.”
 
 Conflicting points – Police says Tewari did not intend to travel on Wednesday and no airline confirmed that booking in his name was made. Tewari’s family however provided PNR of a flight which he was supposed to take on Wednesday. Police also said that Tewari used to order tea without sugar, while family maintained he used to have proper tea. 
 
 “He cancelled the flight ticket late on Tuesday. I have the message saved with me. That is why I am saying we want CBI to probe the case. Lucknow police wants to prove his death as natural at any cost and have ignored the postmortem report too. We have no trust on police and Mahanagar forensic laboratory,” said Anurag’s brother Mayank. 
 
 
