DUMKA: Making an appearance in a public meeting for the first time after the assembly passed the bill making amendments to the Chhotanagpur Tenancy (CNT) and   (SPT) Acts, Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) president   on Friday warned the tribals community that the community will head towards extinction if they do not act against the changes now. 

 Addressing a mammoth gathering of JMM supporters at a midnight rally at   on the intervening night on the occasion of the party's establishment day on Thursday, Soren told his supporters in no uncertain terms that these tenancy laws had over the decades protected the rights of the tribals and the community's survival hinged on them. JMM has been opposing the amendments across the state, from the assembly to the streets. 
 
 Rejecting Das's claim that the JMM chief had approved of the amendments, Soren said it was time for the members of the tribal and other aboriginal communities to unite and force the state government to reconsider the decision.
 
 "Both the tenancy laws came into being after the sacrifices of great tribal heroes like Tilka Manjhi, Bhagwan Birsa Munda, Sido-Kanhu and others. Their great sacrifice is being buried by BJP and its allies," Soren said, and emphasising on launching a fresh movement bigger than the one for a seperate state. Known among his followers as Guruji, Soren had struggled with other political parties for statehood to be granted to Jharkhand and served as chairman of the   before the state was carved out of Bihar in 2000. 
 
 Soren also made a reference to the victory of farmers of Singur (West Bengal) when Tata Motors was forced to wind up its Nano unit after a   order. "The move of the Raghubar Das government to introduce the amendments and change the nature of agricultural land was a bid to ensure that the Adani Group does not meet the same fate as the Tatas," he said, adding the state government procured the approval in the assembly by force.
 
 Former chief minister and JMM's working president Hemant Soren said, "Tribal land is like mother to us and under no circumstance will we allow anyone to grab it by means of amendments of tenancy laws," Hemant said, adding any attempt to grab tribal land would be firmly opposed.
 
