Madurai: The centuries-old Thenur  , constructed by King Thirumalai Naicker, will soon spot a new look, as the works taken up by the Hindu Religious Charitable Endowments department a year ago, is close to completion. Situated in the middle of the Vaigai River at Vandiyur, the structure will be ready for the famous Chithirai festival coming up in a couple of months. The 17th century building, which was once on the verge of demolition, will soon regain some of its past glory.

 Alagarkovil temple administration has taken up the renovation work. According to officials from the HR and CE department, a team of shtapati, who were involved in the renovation works of Meenakshi Amman Temple, have been roped in to revive the Thenur Mandapam. While the construction works have for the most part come to an end, the painting is yet to be carried out.
 
 The Thenur Mandapam had become dilapidated due to lack of maintenance over the years. With the deepening of the Vaigai river, the basement constructed using huge boulders of stone became exposed. The structure also became tilted due to the weak basement. With its revival, people can access the Mandapam to witness the famous event of Lord Kallalagar relieving Mandooga Maharishi of his curse, which takes place there during Chithirai festival. 
 
 The historical structure stands testimony to the architectural marvel accomplished by king Thirumalai Naicker. Although the region boasts of several architectural marvels including Pudumandapam, Meenakshi Amman Temple tower and Teppakulam, the construction in the middle of the river was a formidable task. Experts say that such constructions would not have been completed without facing challenges. The very selection of the spot for the construction at Vandiyur was meticulously chosen keeping in mind the administrative convenience and the ability to attract a huge labour force from nearby Anupanadi.
 
 According to P Arumugam, who has researched extensively about the Mandapam, it was constructed in the year 1653. The king constructed the Mandapam to devote it to the villagers of Thenur. The famous entry of Lord Kallalagar into River Vaigai, a grand event during the Chithirai festival, was conducted in Thenur. The king wanted Kallalagar’s entry to be celebrated in a grand manner and shifted it to the city. To appease the villagers, he constructed the Mandapam from where they could witness the festival with special privilege.
 
 
