NAVI MUMBAI: As many as 11 persons, including a woman police constable, were injured after a car thief who was decamping with a tourist cab deliberately rammed into a nakabandi barricade put up by cops near Roha on  . He then accelerated and went on to hit four bikers and five pedestrians while trying to escape bike-borne constables who gave him a chase near Ashtami village on the Damkhadi-Roha stretch off NH-66, 90km from Panvel, on Saturday.

 The accused,   (23), who hails from Rajasthan, was eventually nabbed after a 2km chase as he lost control of the vehicle which veered off the road and landed on the banks of a rivulet. A huge crowd gathered and thrashed him before handing him over to cops.
 
 Constable M M Mhatre of Roha police station said, “He stole a car from Panvel on Saturday afternoon. Panvel police informed Raigad police control room and Roha cops accordingly set up a nakabandi near Pride Hotel. When the car approached the spot, constable Ghadge signalled to the driver to stop. Instead, he accelerated and attempted to run him over. All cops, except woman constable P P Chavan, managed to jump to their safety. Chavan sustained minor injuries to her elbow. The accused then rammed into the barricade and crashed into several bikers, including one who was riding with two children aged five and two. In all, 11 persons were injured, including the car thief.” 
 
 Prajapati is being treated at the Alibaug civil hospital. On Tuesday, he will be handed over to Panvel police. Prajapati and his two aides who helped him steal the car have been booked under Indian Penal Code section 394 for voluntarily causing hurt during robbery and section 34 for common intention. 
 
 Panvel police assistant inspector   said, “Theyouth and his aides stole the car when it was parked near Bikaner Sweetmart in Panvel. The vehicle owned by Khaghar’s Sachet Jadhav was being used as an Uber cab. Jadhav had gone to a bank nearby. Since his minor cousin was seated inside, he left the ignition key behind. Soon, the accused and his aides entered the cab, assaulted the boy and drove off.” The two aides have not been traced as they got out near Nagothane.
 
 
