NOIDA: Nearly 1,69,000 people violated the speed limit on the   from June 1 to 21, but only 807 among them were issued challans.

 This was the data presented at a meeting held on June 21and attended by officials of traffic police, YEIDA and expressway concessionaire Jaypee Infratech to discuss issues related to e-way. YEIDA additional CEO AN Upadhyaya, DGM (projects) AK Arora, SP (traffic) Anil Jha, SP (rural) Suniti, toll incharge from Jaypee Infratech Manish Singh and officials from Agra were present at the meeting.
 
 Following the meeting, A K Arora wrote a letter to the circle officer (traffic police) on June 23, sharing the minutes of the meeting and seeking compliance on different points. “The concessionaire was directed to provide the data on the number of vehicles which had broken the speed limit and the number of challans issued against them. The concessionaire then revealed that from June 1 to 21, at least 1,69,000 people had broken the speed limit while the challans issued were issued to only 807. It was also said that the data was submitted to the RTO and the district magistrate,” said the letter. The letter indicates that only 0.5% speed violators were challaned in the month. 
 
 It was also found that vehicles were being parked illegally on the expressway and the traffic police had been directed to act against the same.
 
 When contacted, district magistrate BN Singh confirmed that it was indeed the case.“I was told that there there were not enough police personnel on the Yamuna expressway,” he said.
 
 Sources in the traffic police later said that only one head constable and three constables are manning the six-lane expressway. “We need more manpower to issue challans. Many times, people start fighting with the officers claiming that they did not violate the speed limit (100 kilometer per hour),” said an officer. However, the administration has now decided that the Gautam Buddha Nagar transport department will directly send the names and vehicle numbers of the violators to the licence issuing authority in the state concerned, where the violator's vehicle is registered.
 
 “It is correct that we have been asked by the DM to share the violators’ details directly with the concerned licence issuing authority. We will take this information from the concessionaire and start sending it to the concerned state transport departments,” ARTO (administration) Mahesh Sharma told TOI.
 
 Among the different lapses discussed in the meeting, the Yamuna authority officials also noted that while the Jewar and Mathura toll have a dedicated police staff, the Agra toll lacks any such deployment, following which the Agra police has been directed to ensure that separate staff is deployed at the toll.
 
