Ever wondered what might be the biggest challenge in being a college professor? If you thought ‘classroom chaos’, you’re off the mark. Now, speaking of mark… it’s the   that seems to be keeping them up all night. Mirror spoke with   to know what’s going on with the evaluation process. Many of them admitted that going through   was, too often, a task that required a certain  .

 Here’s an example quoted by a lecturer, who had to evaluate a student on his write-up on the Chipko Movement. Instead of an answer, this is what the lecturer got. “Sir, please pass me this one time. I honestly tell you that I know everything about Vandana Shiva. But at the moment I can’t recall anything about her.”
 
 This ‘Ghajini’ student didn’t just stop there. Instead of Chipko Movement, he wrote paras after paras trying to convince the evaluator why he should be passed and how, if done so, he will go on to become a Vandana Shiva himself one day and “re-start” a new Chipko movement.
 
 While some take the coax-plead-beg route, some are self-confessed hard-workers, calling for their “efforts” to be appreciated. For example, this was the note left in Kannada by a student in his English exam answer script: “Sir, I am a Kannada student and don’t know to write in English. I have tried my level best to answer your English exam in Kannada. You need to appreciate my efforts and pass me.”
 
 This may bring to mind the recent case of an SSLC student who “mistakenly” took his first language test in English instead of Kannada. He then went back home and got his parents to demand a pardon/re-exam from the board.
 
  say that the ‘emotional’ card is too frequently played. Take, for example, this one: “There are valid reasons for you to pass me as I don’t have parents and need to take care of my siblings. Know that you’re not holding in your hands a pen, but my future.”
 
 The lecturer said: “I recall one more incident where a student had written that his father was a soldier and had died fighting for the country and so he couldn’t study for exams.” And another one claimed that if he/she didn’t score above 80 per cent, their parents would discontinue their studies. The lecturer said that while they wouldn’t pay heed to such pleadings, these do sometimes take a toll on them, emotionally.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 * DO OR DIE
 
 “If the evaluator doesn’t pass me, I shall be forced to do black magic on him and his family so that all of them die. I am a good student and have written all other papers well. But Maths is tough. And it’s not my fault that it is tough. I dream of going to college like my brothers. If I fail, my family will abuse me and I will be forced to hang myself.”
 
 * ALL FOR LOVE
 
 One answer script narrated in detail why the student must be given marks and be passed. Apparently, he was deeply in love with a girl and planned to ask her hand in marriage (ahem… underage?) but the girl refuses to have a loser for a husband. So unless the examiner is gracious enough, he’ll lose in the exam, and also the girl.
 
 * AND THEN, THIS
 
 “On Sunday, I tried making chicken sambar at home. I want to share the recipe with you. First, I bought a kilo of chicken from the market. The chicken was of good quality. To start with, I had to chop it into pieces, then add masala and grind it with onion in a mixer-grinder. Then you can prepare sambar that will be really tasty.”
 
