MADURAI: The decision of the Indian authorities to block VK.com, linked to the   game, because of its suicidal content doesn't look a wise one, according to the Vice Consul of the Consulate General of  , Michael J Gobartov. He said in an email report submitted before the Madras high court Madurai bench that the move would be ineffective as users of other social media would have already posted the content too.

 “Blue Whale subculture exists apart from VK and this content is available in the other social media. All discovered suicidal groups of VK are blocked now but even when they existed they were moderated in Russian language, including 'suicidal game' tasks,” he said in the report submitted through the Indo-Russian Centre for   chairman,  , on Friday. 
 
 The alleged suicide committed by a student in Madurai on September 6 had led the bench to take up the Blue Whale issue as a suo motu PIL. It had given several directions and asked the Union government to take up the issue with the Russian government to block the site. 
 
 The report said VK.com was a Russian online social media and social networking service. It was available in several languages but was most popular among Russian-speaking users. As of January 2017, it had at least 410 million accounts. In India, there were about 17,000 users, mostly Russians living in Goa and Indian students who graduated from Russian universities. 
 
 Blue Whale first surfaced in VK.com in 2013 in groups dedicated to suicides. An investigative article sparked widespread interest four years ago leading to a heated debate on its genuineness and its links to as many as 130 suicides in Russia since 2013. It was also suggested that the phenomenon might be a borderline urban myth or meme spread by a hungry media, gullible teens and parents afraid of their children's internet habits, the report said. 
 
 The groups had thousands of users, but eight cases of suicides in Russia were proven to have been connected to Blue Whale groups. Many teenagers confessed that the game was a kind of self-challenge for them and in fact they had never planned to commit a real suicide, the report said. 
 
 In Russia, one of the Blue Whale curators, Philipp Budeykin (22), was found guilty of inciting teenagers to commit suicide and was sentenced to more than three years behind bars. Now, all known suicidal groups had been deleted from the website and even more, such kind of content was being blocked automatically without court direction, the report said.
 
