Chandigarh: The   administration on Friday kicked off the “Swachhata Hi Seva” campaign in the city from Sector 19.

 UT administrator V P   appealed to residents to clean their surroundings and post photographs. He said the campaign will end on October 2. Besides Gandhi Jayanti, October 2 will mark the third anniversary of “Swachh Bharat Mission”, a dream project of the central government towards sanitation. The administrator also flagged off a “Swachhata Rath” carrying all the information about the campaign and videos and pamphlets.
 
 He further requested the residents to ensure that the programme is effective and not just ‘symbolic’. “Awareness in terms of instructions, demonstration and drives needs to be provided to certify that these means become part of a nationwide movement in households and outside. Adequate individual and ecological cleanliness has a key impact on the goodwill of every city,”   said.
 
 City MP   said every citizen of Chandigarh is dedicated to influence a nationwide change and all internal stakeholders are firm to achieve the objective to make the Chandigarh and the country clean.
 
 Municipal corporation mayor Asha Jaswal said, “We will encourage the cause and make behavioural changes towards cleanliness.”
 
 During the programme, all took “Swachhata Shapath”. The administrator started drives from Maharshatra Bhawan, Sector 19, a government school in Sector 18, Sector 17 Plaza and Government Multi-specialty Hospital, Sector 16.
 
 All municipal councillors of 26 wards organised similar cleanliness drives in their wards along with area residents and residents welfare and market welfare associations. The drives were also organised in government offices, hotels, schools, bus stands, religious organisations and open areas.
 
 UT adviser Parimal Rai, home secretary Anurag Aggarwal and deputy commissioner Ajit Balaji Joshi and Chandigarh Swachh Bharat Mission brand ambassador Savita Bhatti, and representatives of resident and market welfare associations were also present.
 
 Meanwhile, a cleanliness drive was organized at Behlana village in Chandigarh. Radhika Singh, director, rural development and panchayats, laid stress on the importance of the mission and advised everyone to adhere to the guidelines issued by the government.
 
 
