DHARMSHALA: The cabinet decision to allow sale of tea gardens to promote “tea tourism” has courted controversy with Leader of Opposition   questioning the move. Dhumal said the decision to change land use pattern would wipe out the ailing tea industry of Himachal Pradesh, when the area under tea plantation has already shrunk massively.

 In 1947, there were around 500 tea growers in   district with an average land holding of 25 hectares. Today, 1,100 hectare of tea gardens lie abandoned in the state. At present, Himachal Pradesh has 1,500 planters but only 18 are big and have tea gardens with an area of 10 hectare land or above.
 
 While speaking to TOI, Dhumal said when elections are around the corner and model code of conduct could be enforced anytime, Congress government should have abstained from taking such a decision. “What was the hurry in allowing sale of tea gardens,” he asked. Terming the decision as in complete violation of land ceiling Act, he said the Virbhadra Singh-led government in the state was violating the law just to appease a select few people and that it would not be allowed.
 
 Dhumal said that before the 2012 assembly election, Congress leaders had promised to revive the ailing tea industry of Kangra district by launching complete rejuvenation scheme. In the last five years, the chief minister had completely failed to revive the tea industry and had now decided to complete wipe out the tea gardens as those owning them (tea gardens) can either sell or change its land use, he alleged.
 
 The BJP leader claimed that in the state, only tea garden owners were kept out of the ambit of land ceiling Act and they were allowed to own maximum land. He said that earlier, BJP government had vested a hotel in Barog with the government for violating the provisions of section 118 of the Act, but when Congress came to power, it returned the hotel to the previous owner. The BJP would review the cabinet decision after coming to power, he added.
 
 Neerav Vashisht, tea development officer at Tea Board of India set up in   in 1966 said, “Some gardens are lying abandoned, at others constructions have come up. We are trying to save it and have distributed around 2,000 tea plants in   of   district.”
 
