JAUPUR: Congress leader   accused   government for  . Speaking at the inauguration of a student union office at Law College, Rajasthan University on Monday, Tharoor said that initially government reasoned that the move will curb terrorism, black money and corruption and shifted the goalpost to cashless economy.

 “Soon after the currency ban, a terrorist in Kashmir caught with new currency notes defeated the said purpose. The next tall claim of curbing black money also was hit as most of the currency is back in banks which means that people have converted black money into white,” said Tharoor.
 
 Hitting out at the last goalpost of cashless economy set by the government, Tharoor said, “The time when currency ban was imposed, 98% of transactions were in cash while the rest 2% were through cards. The government has attempted to achieve 100% cash transactions through cards without preparations pushing people into difficulties.”
 
 Further sharpening his attack, the MP from Thiruvananthapuram said, “Rural areas don’t have electricity available all the time. How can one expect debit/credit and PoS machines to accept cards? Another problem is of broadband in the country which is very poor, making online or cashless economy a distinct dream.
 
 He said that the government had promised 1 crore jobs but has taken away lakhs of jobs due to demonetisation. “The labourers which come from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh and get work in Rajasthan are returning to their native places for lack of work. “Joblessness has hit the economy badly,” said Tharoor, who also took a dig at the government’s decision of issuing Rs 2,000 note without having a supply of sufficient currency for change. He said that on November 8 when Modi announced the ban on higher notes it took him by surprise.
 
 “I thought it was a big decision but soon realized that it was not planned at all. It is very surprising that they have banned 86% currency and have printed 4% currency in new notes which resulted in chaos,” said Tharoor.
 
 
