AHMEDABAD: The scars and the pain of his   wound kept reminding him the agony of the gory  . Although time heals all the wounds, it took 46 years for Lance Naik Ditaji Ninama to permanently get rid of his pain from war.

  The veteran from Bhiloda town in Arvalli district developed a massive swelling above his eye from pus accumulation in his bullet wound. This was finally operated on in Civil Hospital here on Wednesday, to relieve him of the pain.
 
 Ninama, now 70, was 24 then and serving in the 12th Grenadiers of the  , in the Baramulla sector of Jammu and Kashmir during the 1971 war between India and Pakistan. He took a bullet to the lower right side of his jaw which exited from his left upper eyebrow. As the bullet wound cost him the sight in his left eye, he was declared unfit and had to leave the Army.
 
 Twenty years after being shot, the wound began tormenting him again. He developed a left frontal pyocele (a collection of puss) for which he was treated by the neurosurgeon at Civil Hospital in 1995. This wound didn’t melt away and again began to swell up and cause pain over the left eye. 
 
 Ninama was again brought to the   on Monday, and he was operated on with advanced coablation technology and nasal endoscopes.
 
 Dr Rajesh Vishwakarma, professor and head of the ENT department at Civil Hospital, along with Dr Ketan Patel and his team conducted the surgery on January 25, one day before the 68th Republic Day. “He was brought to us on January 23, with a huge swelling over his left eye and he had vision only in his right eye.”
 
 “His CT scan and MRI reports revealed massive pus accumulation, in a swelling the size of a cricket ball. This swelling was pushing his right eye downwards and the frontal part of brain backwards, causing him a lot of discomfort. He was admitted on January 23 and was operated on on January 25. His swelling containing pus, or the frontal pyocele, was removed using advanced coablation technology and nasal endoscopes. No cut or incision was made on the face,” Vishwakarma said. 
 
 Ninama and his son Shailesh were preparing for his discharge from hospital on Saturday. Recalling how he was shot he said: “There was heavy firing from both sides when I reached the top of a hill in the Baramulla sector, after climbing for some 18 hours. After I had shot at enemy soldiers, a bullet hit me. I fought even after the wound, until I fell unconscious. I was then treated at the Army hospital in Srinagar and later in Delhi, but as I had lost my vision, I had to leave the  ,” he said.
 
 Ninama then took up farming in his native village, as his monthly pension of Rs 8,000 was not enough for a family of three. His now 17-year-old son, also wants to join the Army.
 
