GUWAHATI: For 16-year-old Tankeswar Pegu, one of the awardees of the   this year, haunting memories of the floods far outweigh the happiness of this proud moment, his father says. 

 The floods which sweep Assam every year wreak havoc in the state - displacing people, sweeping away homes and causing widespread damage. It was during these floods last year that Tankeswar saved a woman from drowning in the Dhansiri river.
 
 Tankeswar, who hails from Rongamati Doital Gaon in Golaghat district, is among the six brave hearts from the region who will be given the   (ICCW) National Bravery Award on January 23. 
 
 "It was June 20 last year. I was going to my tuition classes when I was startled by a voice from the river, screaming for help. I saw a woman being swept away by the river. I jumped in, managed to catch hold of her by the hair and pulled her to the bank. The only thought on my mind was that of saving her. There was no fear," the Class X student of   said.
 
 For his father, Biren Pegu, who has accompanied him to New Delhi for the formal award ceremony, the thought of flood woes back home refuses to go away. 
 
 "Today, I should have been happy. Instead, I am not being able to shake off the despair that we have to face every year during the floods. The road my son had taken is named after Kamala Miri, the freedom fighter. Every year, when the floods strike, we take shelter on this road with our animals. When the road also gets inundated, we take shelter in a nearby tea garden."
 
 The highest bravery award, the Bharat Award, has been conferred on nine-year-old Tarh Peeju from   posthumously. Tarh had jumped into the Pachin river at Naharlagun last May to save two friends from drowning. She was swept away but not before she managed to save her friends.
 
 The list of brave hearts from the region also includes Class VI student Thanghilmang Lunkim from Nagaland, who had saved the life of a fellow student who had fallen into a river while crossing the Mezoma Bridge on September 15, 2015.
 
 Two other girls from Mizoram who have been conferred the awards posthumously are Roluahpuii who sacrificed her life to save two girls from drowning, and Lalhriatpuii,who gave up her life while trying to save her cousin in a car accident. 
 
 Moirangtham Sadananda Singh, who has also been selected for the award, hails from Manipur. 
 
 
