Gurgaon: The All India Jat Aarakshan Sangharsh Samiti (AIJASS) has dissolved all its state and district-level units in Haryana as it plans to set up an RSS-like organisation of the community across the country.

 The committee, in its meeting at the start of the week, has also decided to hold token sit-ins at just nine of the 15 places they were earlier being organised at. The nine spots include — 
 
 Raswala Chowk in Jhajjar, Jasia in Rohtak, Lath Joli Chowk in Sonipat, Ikkas in Jind, Deban in Kaithal, Mayar in Hisar, Dhanana in Bhiwani, ugrakheri in Panipat and Dhani Gopal in Fatehabad.
 
 AIJASS chief Yashpal Malik said, “Since ‘the organization has no office in Haryana, the sit-in sites will double up as the committees offices and members would gather at these spots to meet, discuss and finish paper work.”
 
 The move comes following chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s assurances to the Jat community to fulfil its five demands, including initiating the quota process at the Centre after the chairman for the backward class is elected.
 
 The core committee of the body would meet every 15 days to take stock of the government’s action on its demands. 
 
 AIJASS is set to hold an important meeting in Sonipat on April 16, where the state-level office-bearers will be picked. Those who have shown maximum initiative are set to be rewarded with official positions, a senior member of the body said. 
 
 After this, the committee will hold a three-day national conference of the Jat body in June. The conference will be held in Haryana, but the venue is yet to be finalised. The plan is to set up an RSS like organization of Jats across the country. It would cover 175 districts in 13 different states that have Jat population. In addition, to run the movement effectively, a state-level fund would be set up, which would be run by a 15-member panel.
 
 The committee will also reward members of the body, who managed the sit-ins across Haryana for nearly two months, thereby succeeded in forcing Khattar to agree to their demands. Those who made maximum contribution will be given more posts and responsibilities in the organisation. The district chiefs of the Jat body will continue to work as coordinators till the restructuring is completed.
 
 
