MANGALURU: Two advocates from modest backgrounds who have since risen to pinnacle of their   – one as a Supreme Court judge and the other additional judge of Karnataka high court were cynosure of all eyes at a felicitation function on Sunday. Organised by their alma mater –   – the judges – Justices   of SC and John Michael D’Cunha of Karnataka HC – reminded students that even they can make it big in legal profession.

 Justice Nazeer, while acknowledging role played by his principals – N J Kadamba and A Rajendra Shetty – in shaping his career was forthright in stating he would not have become a lawyer but for this college. Recalling the three years he spent at the college with fondness – Justice Nazeer said students from this institution have carved a niche for themselves in the legal fraternity. He recalled an instance where he had felicitated 16 civil judges in 2008 who were products of this college.
 
 Answering the most pertinent question that law students face at this point in their lives – what next? – Justice Nazeer reminding them that lawyers are drawn into three categories – C, B and A – exhorted them to aspire to be in the ‘A’ category where only vacancies exist. ‘C’ is for entrants where there is no vacancy and ‘B’ is a category where there are some vacancies, he said advising students to focus on the ‘A’ category which comes to those willing to do hard work.
 
 Reminding the aspiring law graduates that humble backgrounds from which he and Michael D’Cunha came from did not come in them rising to the top, Justice Nazeer said, “Don’t be fazed if you cannot speak English. We have learnt to speak some English now in our careers.” He also advised the lawyers to focus on civil law and not focus on criminal or other specialized branches of law that are apparently more lucrative and one that brings them name and fame.
 
 Reminding the students that he took to study of law at a time when law colleges were few and far between in the state and there was no orientation for them to pursue a career in law, Justice D’Cunha said, “We were filled with academic knowledge than skills to face challenges that the profession threw at us.” He also advised the youths to shun the path of instant gratification and instant success and move away from the world of information that ‘Google’ provides.
 
 Ruing the fact that students have lost the art of assimilating knowledge, analyzing and then applying it in their day to day lives, Justice D’Cunha advised them to have imagination, build their intellect and analyse things – an art that is forgotten in an era of instant Internet based knowledge. The law colleges are now providing students with all the tools needed for one to shape their careers, he said exhorting the students to find the real world out there on their own.
 
 D Veerendra Heggade, president SDME Society that manages the college said judges such as Justice Nazeer and Michael D’Cunha are role models for aspiring generation of lawyers. They are men of caliber, integrity and honesty whose sole purpose is justice delivery system and their lives one where they have risen above written norms. Justices A N Venugopala Gowda, A S Bopanna, judges, Karnataka HC and K M Nataraj, additional solicitor general of India were present.
 
