NAGPUR: Times were different when seven-time corporator   entered the   (NMC) arena in 1985. A lot of water has flown under the bridge since then. Governments of various parties have come and gone but barring a five year absence from 2007 to 2012, Agrawal’s presence has remained constant. TOI talked to the senior most corporator in the   House to learn how things have changed over the years.

 Excerpts from an interview...
 
 
 A: In spite of all the talk about funds crunch, its financial condition has improved as compared to the past. Earlier, there was very little money for even small works, leave alone the mega projects NMC is executing now. Even the working has improved. The administration has become more strict of late. The quality of works has improved comparatively. 
 
 
 A: It depends on the individual corporator. Earlier, there were some corporators who served the people well and consequently earned the respect of voters. Then there were bad ones, who were voted out after one term. Both types of corporators exist today as well.
 
 
 A: The attitude of officials towards corporators has remained the same but their calibre has reduced. Overall, most of them do not have in-depth knowledge of their work. However, some of the current lot are very competent.
 
 
 A: Unfortunately, yes. A large number of corporators ask irrelevant questions in the House. This reduces the gravity of the discussion. They are more interested in creating a ruckus and then boycotting proceedings. Their aim is not to solve problems of the people. The ruling party as well as the city too suffers because they are deprived of constructive suggestions from the opposition.
 
 Earlier, many corporators used to study the subjects in depth and this reflected during the debates. They were respected by the officials because they felt that such corporators knew the ins and outs of NMC. Most of the current lot fail to realize this fact.
 
 
 A: Unfortunately, use of money has gone up. Earlier, corporators used to depend on their personal contact to get votes. Now, some of them want to influence voters by spending a lot of money. This strategy works only in the short term. In the long run, a corporator will get elected only if he or she serves his voters with dedication. I have never spent a single penny in the elections but got elected six times from different areas. This is because people know that I will serve them well.
 
 
 A: There should stricter vigilance on civic expenditure. The officials should be held accountable for their work. Thirdly, there are too many back-end staffers in NMC, especially at lower level. They should be replaced by staffers who can directly provide service to citizens.
 
 
