CHENNAI:   ( ), on Thursday, parted ways with   by mutual consent. The club and the Afghan national shared a tumultuous relationship over the last one month and there were constant allegations and counter-allegations levelled against both parties.

 The final nail in the coffin was struck on Wednesday when CCFC coach   alleged that Amiri refused to come as a substitute in the side’s match against   after he was dropped from the starting XI. In a stinging response on Twitter, Amiri dismissed all such allegations. He also went on to call Soundara Rajan ‘unprofessional’.
 
 The episode prompted the CCFC management to take action. CCFC general secretary Vikram   said they had a telephonic conference with both the parties before deciding to terminate Amiri’s contract. “In the past also, Amiri had issues with the coach. However, terming Soundara Rajan ‘unprofessional’ was uncalled for. The coach might have his own strategy of using him as a substitute. Even  , who is I-League’s top Indian scorer, didn’t start for Bengaluru. But, unlike Amiri, it didn’t prevent him from warming up before the match. CCFC management is completely behind the coach and we feel the player’s allegations are baseless. So we have decided to part ways with the player in the best interest of the team,” Murali said.
 
 Amiri, though, had a different version of the tale. “We did have a conference and I proved that Soundara Rajan is a liar. When we were coming on to the field for pre-match warm-ups, I met a few of my old friends in Bengaluru. So I just had a chat with them like everyone else. I never refused to warm up. I won’t deny that I wasn’t surprised when I didn’t see my name in starting line-up. But I was hoping I would be called on as a replacement but my chance never came. Soundara Rajan accepted this and the owners also know who’s telling the truth,” Amiri told TOI on Thursday.
 
 The 29-year-old player also took a dig at Soundara Rajan’s selection procedure. “He knows that CCFC are insulated from relegation and that’s why he wants to play the local players. It is a good thing to promote them but when you have all these local players from your other team then I have doubts over his selection,” Amiri said.
 
 CCFC unlikely to seek Amiri replacement:
 
 Murali revealed that CCFC are unlikely to get a replacement for Amiri. “The AIFF has clarified that only if we appoint fourth foreigner, it has to be a player of Asian origin. So we are likely to go in with three foreigners,” said Murali. The last date for transfer for Indian clubs is March 15.
 
 
