CHENNAI: Merging the   (MRTS) with Chennai Metro Rail will translate into better coaches and facilities at stations as well as a single ticketing system for seamless travel. However, Southern Railway and   are yet to decide on the fare for the popular cross-sectoral services which connect Arakkonam, Thiruvallur and Gummidipoondi with Velachery and other stations on  . This could cause further delays in the merger due to disagreements between the two agencies, a CMRL official said.

 Currently, Southern Railway operates 51 cross-sectoral services which enable travellers from western and northern suburbs to avoid getting down at Chennai Beach station to change trains to go on the MRTS stretch. Ticket prices are also uniform. Around 15,000 commuters use these comfortable services every day.
 
 However, once MRTS merges with Metro Rail, the state-government controlled CMRL will have the freedom to increase the prices for the MRTS section. But the fares for Beach-Arakkonam or Beach-Gummidipoondi will be controlled by Railways, and are likely to be cheaper than the Metro Rail fare. This makes the fate of the cross-sectoral services uncertain.
 
 Currently, the maximum fare on the MRTS stretch is Rs 10. After CMRL takes over, it would have to price it around Rs 75 to break even, a senior official said. 
 
 A senior railway official said that it was a tricky situation and would be discussed in coordination meetings with CMRL officials. “The ownership of the coaches, which will decide who is in charge of maintenance, can be taken by either agency. But the fare will have to be worked out,” he said.
 
 A senior Metro Rail official said that after the merger, trains will be terminated at Fort or Beach station and passengers would have to get down, indicating that there was no clarity on the cross-sectoral services.
 
 The merger proposal had been sent by Southern Railway to CMRL in August last year, but these contentious issues are yet to be discussed by both agencies, sources said. Railway officials are confident of resolving the fare issue as they have the option of forming a joint venture with the state government on the lines of the Mumbai suburban rail network.
 
 The   was the brainchild of the Chennai division of Southern Railway and was given a green signal by Railway Board last year. It aimed to benefit thousands of daily commuters who have to change trains at Chennai Beach or walk across the Poonamalee High Road from Park station to Chennai Central to catch a train towards the western and northern suburbs of Chennai.
 
 
