MUMBAI: The controversial online assessment process that delayed Mumbai University’s exam results for almost four months is here to stay. Acting pro-vice-chancellor of the university,  , said there is no point in reverting to the manual process. “Implementation of onscreen assessment was a mandate for all state universities since 2013. Mumbai   started it late,” Patel said. 

 “There have been some mistakes, which have been identified and will be addressed in the upcoming exams in November.” Adecision on whether MeritTrac will continue as the service provider for the online process is yet to be taken. Details of the process will soon be finalized by the university’s board of examinations. In a review meeting held on Sunday, governor Ch   Rao directed that necessary steps be taken to fix shortcomings in the business process and software, while chief minister   said the ‘mistakes’ in the result declaration should not be repeated and invigilators be trained. This year, assessment for all 477 exams conducted in April was done online for the first time. 
 
 The university rushed into the decision without even finalizing the agency or training the teachers despite opposition from the government and other stakeholders. Vice-chancellor  , who was primarily responsible for implementing the process in a hurry, was asked to go on a forced leave after the university failed to announce the results by July 31. His fate as V-C continues to hang in balance as the governor is yet to decide on his reinstatement. 
 
 Minister of state for higher and technical education Ravindra Waikar said henceforth all assessment and results will be processed online and a decision on Deshmukh will be taken soon. Rao also directed the higher and technical education department and MU to set up a task force to conduct an academic audit of all affiliated colleges. A senior official, who attended the meeting, said a major hindrance in completing the BCom assessment was the skewed student-teacher ratio. 
 
 “There were not enough qualified teachers to carry out the assessment work. Over 75,000 students take BCom test, but the number of teachers who could assess papers was low. Many colleges appoint accountants or teachers on a temporary basis. The audit will ensure that appointment of teachers is regularized,” the official said. 
 
 Rao asked the officials to declare the 11,981 ‘reserved’ results on top priority and directed MU to complete the revaluation of 46,806 papers at the earliest. While MU is confident about carrying out online assessment, teachers and principals are sceptical. “Though all mistakes could be avoided now, there are a few apprehensions about it being implemented for all exams. But even if there are delays, it would be mid-term exams and admissions would not be affected,” said a principal
 
