LUDHIANA: In a big relief to parents who had waged a war against a private school for charging excessive fee, the fee regulatory committee of Punjab & Haryana high court has ordered the school to refund Rs 6.93 crore to parents.
According to the committee,   (BBPS), Dugri, will have to refund the annual charges and tuition fee that was charged more than 10%. Besides, the committee has also found the school of making profit from CAL charges (smart class char ges) and medical charges.School has also been directed to refund profits too.
 
 On Monday , parents submitted the copy of the order of the committee to deputy commissioner   and gave a memorandum to implement the orders. A parent of BBPS, Inderpal Singh Chawla said, “Parents are overjoyed as the fee regulatory committee has directed the school to refund excessive fee and profit.“
 
 Parents had approached the fee regulatory committee of the HC in May 2014 against the school for hiking annual and tuition fee in an unjustified manner. Moreover, parents have alleged that school earned profits by collecting money in the name of giving different facilities.
 
 Another parent   said, “We approached the fee committee in 2014 and in February 11, 2016, the committee gave a decision in favour of parents by directing the school to refund excessive charges and profit earned from it. However, soon after that school filed a review petition with committee. Thereafter, we approached the high court through a writ petition as the committee was delaying the decision. HC ordered the fee committee to give a final decision by Decem ber 31, 2016 and disposed of our writ petition.“
 
 Finally , the fee committee has given decision in favour of parents. In its orders, the committee said, “There is no occasion for the committee to make any additionalternation in its order dated February 11, 2016.The review is dismissed with no order to cost.“
 
 Deputy commissioner (DC) Ravi Bhagat said, “Parents have submitted copy of orders with us. A team comprising additional DC (general) Rishipal Singh; legal advisor; district education officer (secondary)  , representative of parents and school has been formed for the purpose.“ Despite several attempts, principal of BBPS, Punam Dogra did not take up calls.
 
