For young voters exercising their franchise for the very first time, poll day wasn't just about the thrill of flaunting inked-finger selfies, but also the joy of feeling empowered.

 “We want good roads, a working drainage system, and street lights, besides employment opportunities for youngsters,“ echoed twins sisters Harshada and Harshita Bhati, from Bhandup (east), who were waiting in line with their friend, Rutuja Shinde, also a first-time voter. The three had made it their routine to follow campaign trails and party manifestos for two weeks.
 
 For ex-MP  's daughter Rajool, casting her first vote was a “stepping stone“ to politics. “I plan to contest polls in the near future,“ said the political aspirant from  .
 
 For Dhariyaa Motta, who accompanied her 84-year-old grandfather at the St Pius Colony polling booth in Mulund, the election process is a “serious decision“ which puts representatives in a position to redress civic grievances.
 
 Then there was first-time voter from Vikhroli, Pooja Margonde, who said, “It is not just about clicking a selfie and circulating it in social media.Every vote counts and mine will too.“
 
 Elated with his voting right, Mihir Rane, a student of archi tecture from Pillai College, cast his vote at Vivekanand School in Nehru Nagar, Kurla (east).“It's really thrilling. The competition looks tough; so, choosing between either of the parties is going to be tricky ,“ he said, before taking a call. “I'll go for a party that has portrayed younger leadership.“ A few steps ahead stood Azahar Khan, a software employee driven to the booth by conscience.“My hectic work life has prevented me from registering myself as a voter despite 10 years of being eligible.“ Azahar voted in favour of a “clean“ candidate.
 
 It was also about making an informed choice.   spent the last few days investigating her options. “I had no idea about the candidates, but I've been discussing it with my parents to pick the right person for the job,“ said the Mithibai College student.
 
 With their youngest joining them this time, it was a family day out for the Iyers from Bandra. Arjun Iyer (20), who walked into   with his parents and brother, said, “I feel excited and responsible at the same time.“
 
 But some first-timers had a disappointing start after failing to spot their names on the voters' list. Savita Patel from Lokhandwala found the names of her entire family missing from the rolls. “We all applied for registration two years ago, but neither did we receive an acknowledgement slip, nor did the I-card arrive. It is so disappointing. On the one hand the government, NGOs and the media exhort us to exercise our right and duty , and on the other our names are absent.“
 
