KOZHIKODE: The state government has sanctioned Rs 10 crore financial assistance to the CPM-controlled   ( ) in Wayanad to ramp up its meat production.

 The society, which owns the largest multi-species abattoir in the country, has been on a high growth trajectory with the turnover from sales of its Malabar Meat brand set to triple in three years.
 
 As per the order issued by animal husbandry and diary department secretary Anil X, the government fund will be used to meet the capital investment requirement of the society, including setting up waste management facilities at the plant as well as to distribute calves to farmers for growing under the society’s buy-back mechanism.
 
 Interestingly, to enable receipt of government funds the government has asked the company to restructure its administrative committee by including directors of animal husbandry, dairy development and agriculture departments along with special secretary of  .
 
 “We will be changing the bylaw of the society to reflect the government direction at the special general body meeting on February 25. With the inclusion of new members into the administrative committee, we will become a quasi-government entity. It would mark the transition of BDS from a party-backed society to a government supported entity,” former CPM MLA, P   who is chairman of the society said, adding that it would help to access government and central government projects.
 
 The meat foray by the society has been highly successful with its turnover expected to rise from Rs 3.5 crore in 2014- 15 to Rs 10 crore by the end of this fiscal. Also the society is on track to add 50 new outlets to its existing 71 outlets by March 31.
 
 Krishnaprasad said that the society is catering to the around 2,500 livestock farmers and has so far provided over 4,500 calves for rearing with assured buy back options on attaining 2.5 years of age.
 
 He said that the society is planning to set up similar abattoirs in Idukki, Palakkad and Kollam along with industrial scale livestock rearing farms in a bid to attain self-sufficiency in meat production in the state.
 
 “The project will entail a cost of Rs 700 crore and the government needs to invest just Rs 100 crore. The rest we are planning to raise from private entrepreneurs and from banks. We have started a research and project cell to finalize the project,” Krishnaprasad added.
 
 The society had also submitted a project to the state government expressing its readiness to rehabilitate the traditional butchers and meat vendors who are in the red following the high court order directing local bodies to close down illegal slaughterhouses.
 
 
