GURUGRAM: As many as 142   and restaurants in the city’s eastern region, which includes   and Sohna Road, have been marked ‘safe’ after the   measured motorable distance to determine if they were within 500 metres of the nearest highway.

 The exercise became necessary after the   ruled on March 31 bars cannot serve alcohol to customers from April 1 if they were within 500 metres of a state or national highway. Of the total 192 outlets whose distances were assessed, 50 pubs and bars face closure as they are within 500 metres. The other 142 outlets, which received a clean chit, can start selling liquor again. Most of them had suspended sales due to lack of clarity on the matter. Some of the 50 facing closure can, however, appeal for a re-assessment.
 
 Excise department officials said the measurement process in the eastern part kicked off on Monday and concluded on Tuesday. Huda and MCG officials were also present during the drive to assist excise department officials for strict implementation of the Supreme Court’s recent order. “The measurements for liquor outlets in the eastern region have been completed. Fifty outlets have been found to be within 500 metres from highways,” said Aruna Singh, excise commissioner, east Gurgaon.
 
 She confirmed the department measured motorable distance — the actual stretch covered by a vehicle from a highway — as was reported by TOI on Monday. “A few of the 50 pubs and bars fall in ‘questionable categories’, where the distances are a little short of 500 metres. The owners of those outlets have demanded a re-assessment. Their plea will be forwarded to the committees formed under the chairmanship of deputy commissioner Hardeep Singh for a decision,” Singh added.
 
 The district administration has formed two committees, comprising representatives from the excise department, NHAI, MCG and police, to ensure implementation of the apex court’s order and look into disputes that may arise.
 
 The measurement in the city’s western region, which includes  , is likely to start on Wednesday when the distances of around 100 restaurants and hotels, including the Leela Kempinski, Trident and Oberoi, will be assessed. 
 
 “The process will start tomorrow (Wednesday),” said HC Dahiya, excise commissioner, west Gurgaon.
 
 
