LUCKNOW:   chief   declared on Sunday her fourth list of candidates in which she named candidates for 101 constituencies mainly covering the east UP region. Upper castes dominated the list with 37 candidates — 19 brahmins and 16 thakurs.

 Among other communities, OBCs got 34 tickets, dalits 20 and Muslims 10. The party has now declared candidates for 401 seats and has given 87 tickets to Dalits, 97 to Muslims and 106 to OBCs, according to BSP supremo Mayawati.
 
 Of these 101 seats, BSP had won 11 in the 2012 elections. Mayawati replaced five MLAs, including Swami Prasad Maurya (Padrauna), Rajesh Tripathi (Chillupar) and Uday Lal Maurya (Shivpur), who had defected last year to the BJP. Vinay Tewari, son of mafia don-turned-politician Harishankar Tewari, has been given a ticket from Chillupar. His cousin, Ganesh Shankar Pandey, has replaced the BSP MLA from Paniara, Deo Narayan Singh, who has been shifted to Sahjanwa in Gorakhpur.
 
 In Padrauna, which was represented by Swami Prasad Maurya who rebelled against Mayawati last year, BSP has fielded Javed Iqbal. Virendra Singh has replaced Uday Lal Maurya. The MLAs who did not defect but have been denied a ticket include Vijay Kumar (Bansgaon) and Babban (Mughal Sarai). They have been replaced by Dharmendra Kumar and Tilakdhari Bind.
 
 Senior BSP leader Sukhdeo Rajbhar has been given a ticket from Didarganj Assembly constituency in Azamgarh; he was the Assembly Speaker in the previous Mayawati government.
 
 Similarly, senior BSP leaders Sushila Saroj and Rangnathb Mishra have been given tickets from Macchlishahr and Bhadohi Assembly constituencies, respectively. 
 
 Among the MLAs, Mayawati has repeated Umashankar Singh from Rasra (Ballia), Tribhuwan Ram from Ajgara (Varanasi),   Bind from Manjawan (Mirzapur), Umesh Pandey from Madhuban (Mau), Jai Prakash Nishad from Chauri Chaura (Gorakhpur), and Ram Prasad Chaudhary from Kaptanganj (Basti).
 
 Meanwhile, addressing a party meeting in Lucknow, Mayawati exhorted candidates and party workers to get ready for the elections and highlight the BSP’s previous achievements. She also accused the   and the BJP of being casteist and unworthy.
 
 BSP withheld declaration on Sunday of tickets for two Assembly seats — Duddhi and Obra — saying there was “confusion” over their categorisation as reserved.   said the party would declare the candidates soon.
 
