NEW DELHI: Union Defence Minister   on Monday said that the sacrifice of the two Indian soldiers whose 
  team will not go in vain.

 Calling it an extreme form of barbaric act, Jaitley said "such acts are unheard of even in a war." He blamed the neighouring country for the barbarism.
 
 "The government of India strongly condemns the incident," he said, adding, "the country has full faith in the ability of the   that will react appropriately to this inhuman act."
 
 Earlier today, two security personnel were killed and their bodies mutilated by a Pakistan army team which sneaked about 250 metres into Indian territory along the 
  of Jammu and Kashmir.
 
 The Indian Army said that such "despicable" acts of Pakistan's army would be "appropriately responded" to.
 
 "It was a pre-planed operation of Pakistan army. They had pushed in BATs over 250 metres deep inside Indian territory and set up ambushes for a long period to carry out the attack," a senior Army officer said.
 
 Pakistan's   (BATs) crossed into the Indian side as Pakistan army launched heavy rocket and mortar firing on two forward posts in the Krishna Ghati sector in Poonch.
 
 The simultaneous, unprovoked attacks took place on Monday morning, in which an Army JCO and a BSF head constable were killed and another soldier was injured, a defence spokesman said.
 
 Pakistan army carried out unprovoked rocket and mortar firing on two forward posts on the Line of Control in Krishna Ghati Sector (in Poonch district) this morning, a spokesman of the Indian Army's   said in statement here.
 
 Simultaneously, a BAT operation was launched on a patrol operating between the two posts, it said.
 
 "In an unsoldierly act by the   the bodies of two of our soldiers in the patrol were mutilated," the spokesman said.
 
 "They have been beheaded," the senior Army officer said.
 
 The deceased have been identified as Head Constable Prem Sagar of 200th Battalion of the BSF and Naib Subedar Paramjit Singh of 22 Sikh Regiment of the Army.
 
 Constable Rajinder Singh of the BSF battalion suffered injuries in the attack.
 
 A BSF officer said troops guarding the border line retaliated effectively, he said. 
 
 Meanwhile, Pakistan claimed that its Army did not commit any ceasefire violation on   or a BAT action in the Krishna Ghati sector as alleged by India.
 
 Allegation of mutilating Indian soldiers' bodies is false, Pak army shall never disrespect a soldier, said spokesperson of Pakistan's foreign affairs ministry Nafees Zakaria.
 
 
 (With inputs from agencies)
 
