 (GHAZIPUR): Popular as “Mini MLA”, gram pradhan of this village, Meera Chaurasia, represents over 30,000 voters. With modern amenities including schools, banks, ATMs and two police stations in place, the village has 18 puras (localities). Youth here invariably opts for career in armed forces prompting Indian army organise special recruitment camps in the village where mobile army canteens come every month for hundreds of retired personnel. 

 Welcome to Gahmar, known worldwide as one of the most populated villages in the world. Around 130km from Varanasi, Gahmar is part of the Zamania assembly constituency in Ghazipur district. State minister and sitting MLA, Om Prakash Singh, as SP nominee, is pitted against BJP’s Suntia Singh, a resident of Gahmar only. However, village pradhan, Meera Chaurasia’s husband, Durga Chaurasia, is the “de facto” functionary in her place—‘pradhan pati’ as they are called in  .
 
 Gahmar grabbed the limelight recently when Prime Minister   during his two rallies —at Ghazipur last year and Mau a few days back —recalled an incident of 1962 in the Lok Sabha when then sitting Ghazipur MP, Vishwanath Singh Gahmari— a native of Gahmar— made an emotional appeal in Parliament about extreme poverty in the region. His appeal had moved the then PM Pt JawaharLal   and he formed the Patel Committee to make suggestions about poverty eradication in Purvanchal. 
 
 As Modi recalled, Gahamri had cited as how people of the region picked cereals from the animal excreta (gobar) and eat, explaining extreme conditions people were forced to face. “While harvesting, bulls often used to eat wheat and gram and used to release undigested. And the labourers filtered the gobar to use it as their meal,” recalls Arun Kumar Singh, the only of the four sons of Gahmari, living in his native village. 
 
 Gahamri passed away in 1974 but the Patel Committee, at his initiative, made several suggestions including construction of railway bridge over Ganga connecting Tarighat near Gahmar with Ghazipur. In an emotional appeal to voters of the region, Modi had mentioned about how the suggestions of the committee were ignored by the Congress for decades and his government has now started constructing the Tarighat-Ghazipur over bridge. 
 
 “Our only wish is to dedicate the under-construction bridge to our father,” demands Gahmari’s son, Arun Singh, who lives on the five bigha ancestral land in the village. He says it will be a fitting tribute to his father as there is no memorial in his name in the entire district. 
 
 Billed as vistas of prosperity in the region, Tarighat-Gahmar bridge is one of the fulfilled promises that the BJP boasts of while wooing the voters in the ongoing polls as the region will witness polling in the last phase on March 8. “The Congress and other parties had dumped the suggestions for years and it was the BJP, which took the initiative of constructing the bridge after prime minister laid the foundation stone two months back,” says BJP nominee Sarita Singh, who seems strongly placed thanks to the non-Yadav OBC and upper caste voters rallying behind the saffron party.
 
 Bihar leader Dadan Pehalwan’s son Kartar Yadav is also in fray and his presence means split in the Yadav vote-bank damaging prospects of SP nominee Om Prakash Singh. BSP candidate Atul Rai, who was allegedly part of the Mukhar Ansari gang, pins his hopes on Dait-Muslim combination.
 
 As caste factor continues as key to polls, few talk about issues like handicaps in the farming sector despite being a fertile region across Ganga. “Opium factory was closed years ago and sugar mills are also defunct. We don’t grow cash crops despite being in the most fertile region,” laments a Gahmar elderly, Ramashray Prajapati.
 
 
