PANAJI: Having failed to hold on to an allaince in Goa, the Congress has decided to contest the February 4 election for the 40-member House on its own. Despite hectic closed-door discussions, the fledging “seat-adjustment” alliance between Goa Forward Party (GFP) and Congress failed to take off. While the party will contest 37 seats, including the contentious Fatorda that led to the break down of alliance with GFP, it has decided to support other candidates in three constituencies.

 “The Congress is going it alone. Out of 40 seats, the Congress is contesting 37 seats and on three seats we are supporting other candidates,” AICC general secretary and in charge of Goa Digvijaya Singh said in a terse statement.
 
 The party has now decided to formally back Jose Silva in Fatorda. Congress will support   (UGP) candidate and expelled Congress MLA Atanasio Monserrate in Panaji and independent candidate   in Porvorim. The Congress candidate for Siolim failed to file his nomination on time and the party will now decide which candidate will get its support in that constituency.
 
 Party insiders said Singh was in favour of the alliance with GFP despite a majority of the Congress block committees shooting down the idea. Singh was supported by Valpoi MLA Vishwajit Rane and Margao MLA Digambar Kamat.
 
 GPCC president Luizinho Faleiro consistently claimed that the party was not in favour of an alliance, especially not with GFP and party sources said Faleiro was highly disturbed with the seat-sharing arrangement. Incidentally, Faleiro was conspicuous by his absence on Saturday when the alliance failure was announced.
 
 Just hours after the contentious “electoral understanding” with GFP was announced, Fatorda block president Joseph Silva put a spanner in the works when he filed his nomination to contest in Fatorda. The complication over Fatorda was the bone of contention between the two parties as the GFP candidate and sitting Fatorda MLA, Vijai Sardesai, said that the seat was given to him and that the Congress had back-stabbed him.
 
 Senior leader Oscar Fernandes and Singh rushed to Goa to douse the fires but by then the rift between the two parties had gone beyond the point of return.
 
 Denying the existence of the rift, Singh maintained, “There is no rift or difference within the party.”
 
