SAIFAI (ETAWAH): Undercurrents of the Yadav family feud notwithstanding, SP patriarch  's extended family and the people of Saifai, his ancestral village where he cast his vote on Sunday, projected the "Pari-war" as over. The mood in Saifai was almost festive. 

 While members of the Yadav clan, especially the women, did their best to project a united family, Mulayam surprised many in Saifai who had kept guessing till the last moment who would accompany him when he came to vote - his son the UP chief minister Akhilesh Yadav or Mulayam's brother,  . Instead, Mulayam arrived at the village to vote with his wife, daughters-in-law and Shivpal's wife in tow.
 
 Apart from veterans, the youth of the village had started gathering near the newly constructed Abhinav Vidyalaya building, where polling started at 7 am amid tight security in anticipation of high-profile voters, including the CM, MPs and MLAs. How much the voters were looking forward to cast their ballots became clear as in just one and a half hours 11% of the 3,721 registered voters had voted.
 
 From the Yadav clan, senior SP leader Ram Gopal Yadav was the first to reach the polling station, at 7.30 am. By the time Akhilesh reached at 10am, a large number of youth had gathered near there. Akhilesh returned immediately after casting his vote. After an hour, more people gathered as news of the arrival of Netaji (Mulayam) spread. 
 
 The crowd raised a loud cheer as Mulayam, his wife Sadhna Yadav, daughter-in-law Aparna Yadav, and Shivpal's wife reached the polling booth at 12 noon. Mulayam did not forget to wave to the crowd before leaving for the Saifai airstrip. 
 
 Within a few minutes of his departure, the chief minister's wife, Dimple Yadav, who was accompanied by Shivpal's wife, reached the polling station. Most members of Mulayam's family had voted by 1.45 pm and the crowd then dispersed. 
 
 After Shivpal cast his vote at around 3 pm, the remaining villagers also left the polling station. Only those who had accompanied Shivpal's polling agent, Akshay Yadav, stayed to complete the formalities. Akshay said the village maintained the trend of over 85% voting as 87.3% of the electorate there had voted.
 
 The roads of Saifai, a village that has emerged as a symbol of development in the past two decades, were filled with luxury cars and SUVs till Shivpal left the polling station.
 
 
