INDORE: The trial against 11 Student   ( ) men, accused of sedition, plotting  , possession of illegal arms, explosives and ammunitions and for being a member of a banned outfit, will conclude on Monday with the delivery of the final verdict by special   judge BK Paloda.

 Among the 11 SIMI operatives who are being tried before the special CBI court here are Safdar Nagori, the ex-general secretary of SIMI, his brother Kamruddin Nagori and other leaders of the banned outfit from Karnataka, Kerala, Jharkhand and Madhya Pradesh.
 
 The judgment will be delivered on Monday through video conferencing as was requested for specifically by three accused Safdar, Ahmad Baig and   through an application moved by them after they recorded their statements on February 23. All of the accused will hear the judgment in Ahmedabad’s Sabarmati jail where they have been lodged and are being tried for the Ahmedabad bomb blasts.
 
 The final arguments in the case were made on Saturday, in which public prosecutor Vimal Mishra made arguments that the SIMI activists were plotting terrorist activities and should be awarded life terms for their acts of sedition. Mishra argued that the accused persons spread their ideology of separating Kashmir from India.
 
 Meanwhile, the defense advocate Chandan Airen countered these arguments by saying that no such material was seized from the accused and that the police was trying to unnecessarily frame them. Airen also said that the accused were not actually arrested from Shyam Nagar but were arrested by police from different places and brought together in Indore in March 2008.
 
 The police and prosecution has claimed that Safdar Nagori was arrested in Indore with 12 other SIMI operatives from different states from a flat above Gafur Khan’s bakery in Sanyogitaganj area of the city during the intervening night of March 27 and 28.
 
 Later, the police had seized explosives, ammunition, weapons and objectionable literature from a farmhouse in Choral, allegedly run by SIMI to train other activists in horse riding, shooting, swimming, combat and SIMI theory.
 
