Gurgaon: DLF’s sprawling 27-hole   here looks lush and green, but you cannot help wondering if this doesn’t require a lot of water to maintain. Can a water-scarce city afford such a luxury?

 But that’s the whole beauty of it. Not a single drop of groundwater is used for the course. The water used to maintain   – be it construction, irrigation, watering and filling of lakes -- is recycled water provided by a massive STP (sewage treatment plant).
 
 Executive director of DLF, Aakash Ohri, says, “The usage is at an average of 3.85 MLD of STP water for the entire golf course, linear park, loop road and academy. However, during peak summers, the consumption goes up to around 6-7 MLD, and the lowest is during monsoon when the consumption comes down to 2 MLD.”
 
 “We have five lakes here which are interconnected. For the first time in India, Mini Verde grass is being used for greens as it uses less water,” he added.
 
 Avid golfer and one of the earliest members, Rajiv Bal, said, “The state-of-the-art facilities at   Golf Course makes it one of the best golf courses I have played in across the world. The lush green, huge water bodies and the latest water management systems at the golf course makes it a delight to spend your day here playing golf.” 
 
 Another golfer, Manish Rajput, recalls, “Once during the course of play, it started to rain heavily. Seeing the downpour, we thought the day’s game was over. However, as soon as the rain stopped the greens were dry in a matter of one hour! We then learnt about the latest drainage system which drains up the rain water quickly and our play resumed.”
 
 Not just the golfers, the residents of DLF phase V, too, benefited from the massive STP which caters to the condominiums . Anu Agrawal, a resident of Pinnacle, DLF5, says, “Gurgaon is a city that is battling severe  , especially in the summer months when water consumption increases manifold. In this scenario, the initiative to use recycled water for non-consumption purposes and construction activities is a welcome step.”
 
