CHANDIGARH:  , which have recorded the highest incidence of   and seizures are now also recording the highest deaths among infants aged between 28 days and one year. The cause of the death in many cases is unexplained.

 This startling detail, that points to long-term effects of drug abuse in the region, has been revealed in the record maintained by Punjab's health department. It indicates that although these children survive birth, they die early mostly because of ill health.
 
 All India Institute of Media Sciences and Delhi's National Drug Dependence Treatment Centre had studied Punjab's drug problem last year and estimate that in a population of 2.77 crore, around 2.3 lakh people were opioid-dependent. As many as 8.6 lakh people were estimated to be opioid users. Heroin-dependents were the highest at 1,23,414.
 
 The latest figures show that as many as 973 infants died in Amritsar alone last year while 356 and 331 lost their lives in the neighbouring Gurdaspur and Tarn Taran districts. All three have a border with Pakistan from where heroin is smuggled into India.
 
 Overall, 3,978 kids died between April and December last year in the state. Of these, 2,330 were boys and 1,648 were girls. 
 
 The total number of registered births last year was 40,459. This means one out of every 10 newborn kids has died in the past year.
 
 These deaths were reported from both government and private hospitals. Autopsy was completed in most cases and 'other diseases' was cited as reason in large number of cases. Birth asphyxia, trauma and neonatal cases were among common reasons but were roughly 320 cases.
 
 "The deaths in some of the districts are alarming and require investigation. We have told the hospitals, doctors and other staff to ascertain the cause of deaths in these cases," said Dr Dharampal, Punjab director of health and family welfare.
 
 According to health experts, opioids lead to premature birth and miscarriages. "A newborn will certainly have withdrawal symptoms as tremors, high-pitched scream and diarrhea. An infant whose mother is dependent on any opioid is extremely susceptible to stop breathing temporarily and will fail to gain weight," says Dr Ranbir Singh Rana, in-charge, government drug de-addiction centre at Tarn Taran.
 
 The report also mentions that 619 mothers died in the last one year after giving birth to newborns. It adds that though Punjab health department kept a yearly target of 4.6 lakh deliveries, it could only manage 3.4 lakh cases where women were admitted to hospitals. This included both successful deliveries as well as miscarriages.
 
