THANE: With the   nearing, citizen activists seem to be actively participating in creating awareness among the upper class enclaves about the importance of votes and electing the right candidate to power. 

 Few groups have formed a network wherein they will not only encourage residents to vote after scrutinizing their profiles, but will also work as watchdogs akin to those like Praja foundation that is working in Mumbai. The common thread among these groups comprising of majorly the educated class is the seething anger towards the political fraternity that has over the years conveniently ignored solving their issues.
 
 A group of alert residents from the Gladys Alwares belt in Thane have also decided to mobilize residents of the nearly 200 upscale residential enclaves to ensure the residents vote the right candidate. “We are actively working with the office bearers of several societies who will encourage their members to vote. We want a corporator who will voice our grievances in the house and work towards development of our area,” said T N Raghunatha, a member of a plush residential society in the Thane.
 
 Another activist Shashi Kumar Nair who stays at a plush complex in Manpada says they have decided to form a panel of alert residents who will analyze profiles of the candidates contesting the polls and actively encourage their members to vote for the right candidate.
 
 Meanwhile, few   from the city have also decided to participate in the   after the corporation had reportedly taken few decisions that have directly impacted their survival. Though, there is a split within the community whether to contest or not, a rebel group is likely to announce its list of candidates and file their nominations before February 3. 
 
 Harish Sharma, a chemical engineer from the UDCT, Matunga has also decided to contest the polls this time following his personal experience of facing poor infrastructure in the city despite residents paying taxes. 
 
 While though, hopeful for a victory, few of these citizen groups have said they plan to double up as watchdogs before and after the elections to keep the pressure on the newly elected netas. “We know our limitations and even if our candidates aren't elected, we will continue working as a watchdog for the next five years here observing and suggesting corrections to the functioning of the administration like that operates in Mumbai,” said Unmesh Bagwe, who is coordinating for Thane Matadar Sangha. 
 
 The group includes activists from TISS, professionals including lawyers, businessmen and experts who have pledged support to keep a hawk eye on functioning of the administration like the ones operating in Mumbai.
 
 A corporator should be available for the residents of his area. There are problems galore houding the common man, but there's no one to solve it. I have decided to contest the polls with the sole intention to win and ensure the voice of the common man is heard
 
 
