By 
 

 If a society is judged by how it treats its criminals, what does showing leniency to convicted women say about us?
 
 A string of   in cases where gender of the convicts became a deciding factor in awarding the   has set the tone to discuss whether gender should be an influencer in the juridical process if the end is fair penalty.
 
 
 
 
 On April 18, a magistrate held a 26-year-old speech therapist,  , responsible for causing the death of a bike rider through her negligence, but he cited her gender and profession to let her off with a fine of Rs 75,500.
 
 Days before this, on April 12, a   bench gave a two-year jail term to a woman convicted of attempted murder and robbery, restoring a trial court order and setting aside a high court judgment that let her off only with a higher amount of fine. The high court had shown the extraordinary leniency on the grounds of the convict’s gender and her three minor children.
 
 A counterpoint to these cases came on April 24, when a magistrate refused any type of lenience while convicting a woman, Pooja Sheth, of mowing down a 67-year-old. The magistrate observed that the punishment prescribed for rash driving is inadequate as it is, so further clemency could not be shown.
 
 At the bottom of these disparate cases lies a contentious question: Can gender be a discriminating factor while awarding punishment for a crime?
 
 The argument against such discrimination is rooted in Article 14 of the Constitution which prohibits any discrimination — the equality principle. But others believe the intrinsic differences between the roles of man and woman in a socio-cultural context allow for certain considerations to be made. And while the facts of each case are unique and a broadbrush study may be deleterious, a softer reformative approach towards women isn’t far afield.
 
 But in the end, academicians argue, the cognitive biases of the judge, who has his own subjective social reality, dominate the matter.
 
 How should we, then, relate the equality principle to gender while dealing with crime and punishment? Is there room for interpretation or should we simply go by the yardstick of “equal treatment of all”.
 
 In the second case cited above, the apex court observed that the woman’s circumstances deserved some leniency but the law, which prescribes imprisonment for “heinous offences” such as attempted murder, could not be surpassed to grant relief beyond an extent. In contrast, in the first case, imprisonment is optional as per the law.
 
 Justice AK Sikri, who was part of the two-judge SC bench, stressed that any consideration would depend on the facts of the case.
 
 
 
 
 Under the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC), a set of rules to be followed at every stage of a trial, the judge may be lenient to a woman as they may be towards an infirm person while granting bail, but not while deciding quantum of punishment for the guilty.
 
 Regardless, advocates routinely ask for leniency for a convicted woman and in a lot of cases, it is granted.
 
 This paper decided to open up the subject through conversations with jurists and legal experts, in order to understand the implications of discrimination on the grounds of compassion. The jury is, as they say, divided.
 
 Referring to CrPC provisions for preferential treatment during bail, constitutional expert Shrikant Bhatt says that the Code was drafted in 1873, in the pre-constitutional era. “Today, discriminating simply on the basis of gender would violate Article 14 of the Constitution, which guarantees equality to all citizens. And if there are extraneous factors, the courts would consider them anyway.”
 
 Taking the argument forward, criminal lawyer Amin Solkar says the perception of women as always being the victims needs to change, and mercy shown on the grounds of gender can be taken for granted, or abused.
 
 “Nurturing the notion that women are good can lead to a great deal of bias against men. In a bid to do justice to women, men often end up being victimised,” Solkar says, adding that the number of men who commit suicide each year is far greater than women.
 
 But it isn’t a man versus woman debate. The convicts are, after all, at the receiving end of a juridical process presided over by judges. And judges, like everyone else in society, have biases.
 
 Vijay Raghavan, the dean of the   at Tata Institute of Social Sciences, says it boils down to the biases in judiciary, which in turn reflect society at large: “Whatever biases operate for or against a section of society have narratives in society. These biases percolate in systems like the judiciary. On the one hand the judiciary is imparting sensitisation training, but we cannot forget that judges are individuals who come with their own baggage based on their socialisation and experiences. So sometimes you find judgments that are not very rational.”
 
 Raghavan argues that such bias works both ways. “If there is bias in the judge’s mind against women in general, it gets reflected in his judgments,” he says.
 
 A lot of female criminologists have observed that on the face of it, women seem to be patronised and appear like they are being let off easily, but they also get marginalised. For instance, since women form a minority of the population in prisons, the types of vocational training available for them are fewer than those for men. And the vocations are stereotypical — candlemaking, tailoring, and so on.
 
 “It is far more difficult for women to access legal aid. In most cases, men behind bars have a strong family backing, while women get abandoned,” Raghavan says.
 
 It’s also about the pull an individual exerts in society. Raghavan says that probation, that is release on the basis of good conduct for certain offences, is mostly extended to people from higher social strata.
 
 Senior counsel Gayatri Singh says leniency cannot be a matter of rule. The offence must be seen in context with the convict’s position in society and circumstances around the crime. “Only if the net result of all this merits lesser punishment should leniency be shown.”
 
 Coming back to the Supreme Court case, justice Sikri relied on the research of English criminologist Professor Eugene McLaughlin, who finds that ‘paper justice’ would demand giving similar penalty for similar offences to both men and women. But when it comes to ‘real justice’, consequences of a penalty cannot be ignored. “Real justice would consider the likelihood that a child might suffer more from a mother’s imprisonment than that of his father’s,” the judge observed.
 
 French thinker Michel Foucault pointed out a progressive way of looking at penal judgement. The question to be asked isn’t what law punishes a certain offence, he wrote in his 1975 book ‘Discipline and Punish: The Birth of the Prison’, but how do we see the future development of the offender and what would be the best way of rehabilitating them.
 
 The questions can inform the way punishment is awarded to women.
 
