New Delhi: Rivalry among mobile wallet players has given rise to a war of words, with companies accusing each other of inflating volumes and value of transactions.

 Upasana Taku, co-founder of  , has alleged that   has been reporting high numbers. Data released by the   pegged the total number of prepaid payment instruments, including mobile wallet transactions in India at around 88 million in December 2016, which is in sharp contrast to the higher numbers claimed by industry leader Paytm, said Taku. “Paytm is definitely ahead of us but I don’t think they have crossed 100 million users,” she said.
 
 Paytm, in its official blog, said it had 177 million wallet users in December 2016 compared to 122 million in January the same year. The Alibaba-backed company claimed it witnessed one billion transactions on its platform in 2016 and had 80 million active users in December, which means at least 80 million transactions through Paytm in the month. However, the total number of mobile wallet transactions in 2016 was less than 950 million, according to the RBI. In December, total mobile wallet transactions through eight players was around 88 million. 
 
 When asked about the discrepancy between its claimed numbers and the data released by the RBI, a Paytm spokesperson declined to comment.
 
 Contrasting views have been voiced by a section mobile wallet players on the data provided RBI which has suggested a decline in digital transactions after demonetisation. Many industry experts attributed the decline to hesitation of users to spend, as there is a liquidity crunch in the market after November 8.
 
 “All wallets put together, we have not even reached 10% of the country,’ she said. “At present, less than 14% of transactions happen digitally, rest in cash. Financial services in India is now going to open up, and government policies are going to help.”
 
 “Before demonetisation, Paytm had started their sticker strategy,” she said. “All stores may not accept it but they have the sticker. In visibility Paytm has done a lot of work. RBI should start publishing real numbers, then people won’t question me that your competitor is four times bigger than you.” Mobikwik claims it has around 45 million users.
 
 
