JALANDHAR: Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA Sukhpal Singh   said on Thursday that under the prevailing conditions the party may lose the Gurdaspur   byelection and the municipal corporation and panchayat polls in Punjab.

 “There is an element of disappointment among volunteers and the graph of the party after it reportedly drifted away from its principles has been going down. Despite the possible losses in the MC elections and the bypoll, AAP can bounce back in the 2019 parliamentary elections if it returns to original principles and ideas,” he said while addressing a press conference here.
 
 “People still hate SAD a lot and the Congress graph will also come down as it will fail to keep promises it made before polls. We can fill in that space but the foremost condition is that our party will have to return to its original principles of transparency, accountability and inner party democracy,” the Bholath MLA said. “People of the state were 100% ready to form the AAP government in Punjab but we lost as we started drifting away from our principles. We need to do a lot of introspection,” he maintained. 
 
 He said sacking of Sucha Singh Chhotepur from the post of Punjab AAP convener damaged the party. “Now, Gupreet Singh Waraich has left the party, which was an unfortunate development. He had a clean image and had worked for the party but felt humiliated the way he was removed,” said Khaira. He added that party’s NRI supporters should not be ignored. “They gave us a lot of inspiration, campaigned for us and gave funds and their opinion must not be ignored,” he said. On Upkar Singh Sandhu’s expulsion, he said discipline was required but at least a notice should be issued and the person be given a chance to be heard. 
 
 ‘Was offered cabinet berth by Cong’
 
 Trashing the claims of the   that 11 AAP MLAs were in touch with it, party MLA Sukhpal Singh Khaira on Thursday stated that he had even rejected the offer from Congress poll strategist Prashant Kishor ahead of the Punjab assembly polls, who had come up with the promise of a berth in the cabinet if Congress formed the government.
 
 Khaira revealed that during the run up to the assembly polls, he was approached by Kishor who held a meeting with him also. “At the outset of the meeting Kishor said he was authorized by the Congress high command to offer me a berth in the cabinet when the party would come to power. But even then I told him clearly that I would remain in AAP. Later, his camp leaked this to AAP central leadership also,” he said.
 
