HYDERABAD: The power tariff hike meant to take effect on April 1, the first day of the new fiscal, is unlikely to happen on that day. 

 This is because the two discoms could not submit the hike proposals to the   (ERC) on Tuesday, the last date for doing so. Sources said the discoms could not do so because chief minister   did not approve the proposals.
 
 The ERC takes 45 days to complete the tariff review process that includes organizing public hearings in at least three locations in the state, seeking technical advice on the proposals and establishing the rationality behind the hike proposals.
 
 “If the final proposals are submitted on Tuesday, the process would have been completed by April 1. This would allow the discoms to implement the new tariff from the first day of the new financial year. But as we did not get the audience of the chief minister, we have not finalised the proposals,” said a senior official working in the state energy department.
 
 It is statutory to give 45 days to the ERC to finalise the new tariff from the date of submission of tariff proposals. 
 
 Tuesday’s development would finally lead to delay in the implementation of the new tariff. As per official sources, the new tariff may be delayed by one month and may become effective only on May 1. But again, this would lead to another confusion as the overall hike was meant for 12 months and does not answer the issue as to who would bear the loss of revenue for the month of April. Otherwise, the 12-month tariff should be trimmed to 11 months, for which the ERC has to give a separate approval.
 
 “We will request the ERC for condoning the 45-day statutory time limit for the tariff review. If they agree to this, the new tariff can be implemented from April 1 even if we submit the proposals at a later date. But all this requires the permission of the government,” said a senior official of  .
 
 If the chief minister once again refuses to approve the hike and directs the discoms to continue with the old tariff, they will have to face a Rs 6,857 crore revenue deficit. In case the government does not agree to increase its financial support to the discoms and sanction the same amount as it had reimbursed last year, the discoms would end up with another Rs 2,347 crore deficit. 
 
 Last year, the   sanctioned a whopping Rs 4,500 crore as subsidy to the two power utilities.
 
