MUMBAI: The   has received a confidential letter from the   requesting the transfer of alleged serial killer  . Sources said the letter cites security reasons due to overcrowding in prison as one of the reasons. Palande was booked in five murder cases, of which he has been convicted in one, acquitted in another and awaiting trial in the rest.

 Thane prison has a capacity of 1,100 inmates but is housing 3,200, a mix of undertrials and convicts. Among these are contemporary artist Chintan Upadhyay, driver, Shyamvar Rai who is a key witness in the Sheena Bora murder case, triple blast accused Saquib Nachan and more recently, six jail staffers accused of the murder of Byculla jail inmate, Manjula Shetye.
 
 In Thane prison, Palande has been keeping himself busy filing RTI applications and giving tips to other inmates on how to file them. He has to be escorted for court hearings to Mumbai, which is a considerable distance. He also has to be taken to St George Hospital at CST for dental treatment, as per a court order. The shortage of escorts for court hearings as well as for medical examinations has been cited in the letter from the prison. None of the cases where Palande has been charged is from Thane region.
 
 Nitin Vayachal, superintendent of prisons, Thane, refused to comment. Sources said there is a shortage of more than 50% in escorts for court hearings. 
 
 Palande was arrested in April 2012 for the murder of businessman Arun Tikku and aspiring film producer Karan Kakkad. He had been earlier convicted for the murder of DN Nagar resident, Swaraj Ranjan Das, but had jumped parole in 2003. He was also accused of another murder of an unidentified person after police retrieved a skull and bones while looking for Kakkad’s body. 
 
 Earlier this year, Palande gave an application to court asking for his case to be expedited and that he had already spent five years in prison. 
 
 A recent Supreme Court direction has told all session courts to finish trials pending for five years by the end of 2017. Palande, in his application, blamed the prosecution for causing unnecessary delays.
 
