 At least 15 people died as thunderstorm with lightning and gusty winds at 70-80kmph hit almost the entire state between 5:20am and 8:30am on Tuesday. The local Met observatory recorded 10.9mm rainfall in  . Purnia witnessed 58mm rainfall, the highest in Bihar.
 
  Disaster management department special secretary Anirudh Kumar said seven persons were killed by lightening and four each by felling of trees and collapse of rooftops and house walls. While two persons died in each of Patna, Aurangabad, Lakhisarai, Madhubani and Begusarai districts, one death each was reported from Nalanda, Purnia, Supaul, Araria and Munger.
  
  Weathermen at   said thundershower is likely to continue for the next three days as well. “We are expecting the weather system to prevail for another two to three days, wherein northern and eastern parts of the state are likely to witness thunder squall. Besides, hailstorm is expected at a few places like Purnia and Samastipur in northeast Bihar,” a Met official said.
  
  He said the wind speed over Patna was 50-60kmph against the normal 6-8kmph around this time of the year. Soon, there were loud claps of thunder followed by rain. The clouds were cumulonimbus, characterized by thunder and lightning. The larger the cloud mass, the more intense is the thunder under such conditions. A completely localized weather phenomenon, the entire show of cumulonimbus clouds, from beginning to end, lasts for two-three hours. Such clouds are common during Nor’wester activities — sudden thunderstorm activities during summer season.
  
  Weathermen attributed the thunderstorm to a cyclonic circulation over Uttarakhand with a low-pressure area over Bihar. “The excess heating of the land surface at most places in Bihar for the past few days led to formation of a localized atmospheric vacuum or a low-pressure area. This low-pressure under high temperature pushes the wind speed. Besides, the moisture incursion from the cyclonic circulation over Uttarakhand augmented the system to develop into thunderstorm with squall,” said a senior Patna meteorological centre official.
  
  The clouding and showers also led to sharp plunge in the mercury column as the maximum temperature in Patna plunged by almost eight notches over the last 24 hours. From 36 degrees C on Monday, the maximum temperature came down to 28.6 degrees Celsius on Tuesday. The minimum temperature also came down from 24.8 degrees C on Monday to 19.5 degrees C on Tuesday.
  
  Meanwhile, a   (PESU) official said power cables were snapped and electric poles uprooted at a few places in the city, including Vidyapati Marg, Boring Road and Khagaul, but power supply was restored by 10am.
