GURUGRAM: More than 500 students from across 20 schools in   and neighbouring states, including Mayo College, Ajmer, GD Goenka Public School, Delhi, Shallom Hills International School, Gurgaon, and Delhi Public School Gurgaon, participated in a two-day international academic tournament that ended on Tuesday. The competition was hosted by city-based Suncity World School.

 Titled ‘World Scholar’s Cup’, the competition assesses proficiency over core subjects like science, social studies, arts and music, literature, history and special area. The top finalists will further compete at   in the US.
 
  “The objective of organising the competition is to help students discover their interests and aptitude. The competition also hones students’ public speaking skills, logical thinking skills and instils creativity among them,” said Vishal Sharma, program director (India) for World Scholar’s Cup. 
 
 Sharma told TOI the competition comprised three rounds. “There is a regional round followed by a global round and then the final round that will happen at Yale University,” he said. “The global round will happen in three different countries. Participants can choose to go to any of these three countries where shortlisted students will go to the final round at Yale University.”
 
 Held for the junior (10-14) and senior (15 and above) division, every World Scholar’s Cup round has four main events — The Scholar’s Challenge, Collaborative Writing, The Team Debate and the Scholar’s Bowl. Each team comprises of three members drawn from either different or same schools. The Scholar’s Challenge tests students’ command over various subjects. 
 
 The top 10 performing teams compete at the Global Round. The final round called the Tournament of Champions will be held at Yale University. “The finalists will also attend a special panel on college admissions and on how to leverage their World Scholar’s Cup experience as part of their admissions portfolio,” organisers said.
 
 “The competition entails participation from brightest minds across the world, and is a test of all-round development of students,” said Rupa Chakravarty, principal of Suncity World School.
 
 
