Chennai: In a significant ruling, the Madras high court said the voluntary retirement scheme (VRS) package, equal to salary for 72 months, paid to willing employees of Hindustan Photo Film (HPF) Manufacturing Company Limited in Ooty is in the nature of compensation and no   should be deducted. On their part, employees who accept the package shall vacate and hand over possession of the quarters within one month from the date on which they receive the monetary benefits, the court said. 

 Justice T S Sivagnanam, concurring with the submissions of senior counsel R Vaigai, said: "The benefit, which will accrue to the employees, is in the nature of compensation, which is pursuant to a decision taken by the government of India specifically for the employees of HPF. Therefore, the amount would be exempted from income tax in terms of the first proviso under Section 10(10B) of the IT Act. Therefore, the provisions of the Section 10(10B) of the Income Tax Act, 1961 are attracted and accordingly, the same shall not fall within the definition of income, while computing the total income of concerned employee and income tax cannot be deducted from the severance package paid to the employees of HPF." 
 
 Quick to realise that the ruling could set the trend for several other public sector undertakings preparing similar severance packages for their own employees, counsel representing the Centre said the government of India would appeal against it in the Supreme Court.
 
 Once a public sector giant enjoying a monopoly in X-ray films market, HPF became a white elephant since 1987 when salary stagnated and staff had either no or little work in the factory. A VRS was readied by the   which approved a proposal for providing non-plan budgetary support of Rs 181.54 crore for voluntary retirement at the 2007 notional pay scale.
 
 The Hindustan Photo Film Workers' Welfare Centre termed VRS as unfair and illegal. It sought payment of 72 months' salary on 2007 payscale to each employee, non-deduction of income tax on the severance package, special performance allowance, adjustable advance paid to employees and permission for the employees to occupy the staff quarters till May 1, 2016 at the same rate of rent. 
 
 Contentious issues boiled down to 72 months' salary as severance package instead of 60 months, exemption from income tax and no eviction from the quarters.
 
 
