KOLKATA: A section of Kolkata’s   have slammed filmmaker   for refusing to say the “three words” regarding his  , saying it could have a negative effect on the community. 

 In his forthcoming biography ‘The Unsuitable Boy’, Johar has said: “Everybody knows what my sexual orientation is. I don’t need to scream it out. If I need to spell it out, I won’t only because I live in a country where I could possibly be jailed for saying this. Which is why I, Karan Johar, will not say the three words that possibly everybody knows about me in any case”.
 
 Several of the city’s   activists believe the filmmaker’s logic, instead of hitting out at the archaic laws, would allow homosexuals to be browbeaten and extorted. In some cases, they felt, it might even derail plans to come out of the closet.
 
 “He has diluted the basic rights of the queer movement by wrongly highlighting the imprisonment clause with his irresponsible comment,” said choreographer Sudarshan Chakraborty, adding a person could never be arrested in India for just coming out as gay or lesbian. “By dragging the legal issue involving Section 377 IPC, KJo has jeopardised the queer movement. Coming out as gay or lesbian doesn’t mean a person can be arrested. He/she can be ostracised. This section criminalises sexual activities ‘against the order of nature’,” Chakraborty felt. “But after such statements, people like me who have come out can become easy targets of abuse,” he rued.
 
 Activist Sujoy Prasad Chatterjee feels Johar’s statement was “regressive”. “It is a big jolt to the community when KJo says he won’t say those three words for fear of imprisonment.... To this say this is a way of giving in to sexual fundamentalism,” Chatterjee said.
 
 Malobika, co-founder of Sappho for Equality, believes such statements might give a false sense of “empowerment” to people who want to harass people who want to come out. “This is a big disservice to the movement,” she said. “He has put forth an incorrect view on a legal position. If we were to believe him, those who have said it, including myself, would have all been in jail now.... Because of his socio-economic and locational position, he has been too detached from the man on the street and his struggles.” 
 
 Gender and sexuality activist Pawan Dhal expressed disinterest. “I don’t like coffee with either sugar, milk or Karan. I don’t think it is important to discuss what he said. The movement is not going to gain or lose anything because of his words,” Dhal said.
 
 KJo also has some support — notably from fashion designer Nil. “No one owes a responsibility to come out. I’m happy with what he said,” he said.
 
 
