CHENNAI: When external affairs minister   tweeted about   Canada's abuse of the Indian national flag, it raised the issue of the legal liability of third-party service providers on internet marketplaces. On January 11, the Union minister warned Amazon Canada against allowing sale of Indian tricolour doormats, and said,"Amazon must withdraw all products insulting our national flag immediately."

 This resulted in her Twitter handle being flooded with requests that shoes, sneakers, chappals, keychains, phone cases - hosted on Amazon and Zazzle -be taken down. The issue surfaced again after economic affairs secretary   directed salvos at Amazon on Sunday night.
 
 While Amazon has taken down some products, it is legally not obliged to do so, say lawyers. "We are talking about a third-party seller on Amazon Canada offering doormats. And you must remember they were offering doormats with flags of nearly 20 countries, including Canada's national flag - so it is obvious the intention was not to disrespect the Indian flag. Then again, foreigners do not view the feet/doormats with our association of disrespect and uncleanliness," said N Aravind, a lawyer. "Legally it is not enforceable to stop Amazon Canada's slippers with Mahatma Gandhi's photo." Anand Bhushan, partner at Shardul Amarchand Mangaldas law firm, believes that "cultural issues need to be addressed first". "We need to examine if an offence or insult was intended or it was just a case of cultural misunderstanding. Even if enforceable under the Information Technology Act, 2000, marketplaces are categorised as intermediaries. As such intermediaries may not be liable and may seek protection under section 79. Softer approach is warranted. And we shouldn't be unduly aggressive."
 
 Amazon did not respond to emails requesting comment.
 
 These are sentiments that Shaktikanta Das might not concur with. On Sunday, the secretary had tweeted that, "Amazon, better behave. Desist from being flippant about Indian symbols & icons. Indifference will be at your own peril." A tweet that opened another can of worms, as tweeters including serial investor Mahesh Murthy questioned sale of goods with the US flag in India by  . With many tweeters pointing out that this could be in violation of the US flag code, third-party usage of images on both sides of the Atlantic comes into question.
 
 Bhushan cites the landmark case of Union of India vs Naveen Jindal in 2004, which challenged restrictions and liberalised use of the national flag. The court observed, "In various international sports or cultural events, people identify themselves with their country by displaying the national flag. It is an expression of pride. The restrictions imposed on the use of the national flag should be commensurate with the international practices being adopted by various democratic countries and the government should not impose any restriction, which distances people from the national flag."
 
