LUCKNOW: The   and body were yet to be erased, when   Sunita (name changed), a   (Rae Bareli), was attacked again on Thursday. This time she was   by unidentified persons, on train, while returning to Lucknow from her village. Sunita has previously been a victim of multiple crimes against her including alleged gang-rape and attempt to murder.

 The 45-year-old mother of two who works at at Lucknow's Sheroes Hangout Cafe, that was set up by activists to empower   survivors across the state, was admitted to the ICU at King George's Medical University (KGMU) Trauma centre soon after where her condition was said to be stable. "There is evidence of a corrosive liquid in her throat. Investigations are on and her condition is stable," said Prof Haider Abbas, faculty in-charge, Trauma centre. 
 
 Sunita had gone to her village on March 10 and was returning on the Ganga-Gomti express when the incident took place. She was later found on the station in an unconscious state by a woman GRP constable who brought her to the emergency. Unable to talk because of the acid's effect on the lining of her throat and in complete shock, Sunita's case has been a sensitive one. As recent as January, a letter of threat in her name had reached the cafe, after which the activists had approached senior police officials for providing Sunita adequate police protection. While she was given assurances, there was no action taken on ground and she continued to live a life of insecurity.
 
 "This is a case of extreme ignorance where both the police and the state have failed to protect a woman. Sunita has been facing continuous threat from her perpetrators all these years but none of them have been convicted and continue to harass her," said Ashish Shukla, campaigner Stop Acid Attacks under which Sheroes cafe was started.
 
 Fighting a legal battle since 2008 when she was allegedly gang-raped, Sunita was first acid attacked in 2011 followed by other serious attacks again in 2011, twice in 2012 and another in 2013. The matter is said to be related to an alleged property dispute in her village.
 
 "The attacks generally took place around the time when Sunita was to go to court to record her statement. The SC/ST commission had also directed Rae Bareli administration for security that time, but nothing has ever been provided to the homeless woman. The incident has saddened us all again," said Ashish. 
 
 
