PUNE: Residents of Amit Colori, a society in Undri, have approached the sarpanch Shweta Ghule requesting action against extraction of groundwater for construction in the vicinity of their residential complex. 

 The letter urges intervention of the gram panchayat to ensure that   from the open well and borewell in their residential complex is made available to them to reduce their monthly expenditure of lakhs of rupees for purchasing tanker water. The sarpanch has written to the tehsildar to acquire the borewell.
 
 Amit Colori, a complex of six residential buildings, is home to over 170 families living here since 2012. According to the residents, more than 10 water tankers are being called every day, leading to monthly water bills of almost Rs 3 lakh.
 
 Tarun Lohiya, a resident, said, “We run out of water supply almost every other day, causing inconvenience to the residents. We feel it is unfair and illegal that we are not able to use the borewell and well in our complex.”
 
 The   had assured us of ample water, Snehal Shinde, another resident, said. “I bought a flat hereassuming water will not be a problem because there is an open well and a borewell on the premises. However, the original land owner is freely extracting water from the open well and the builder is drawing water from the borewell and using it for construction of other projects, while flat owners are forced to buy water,” he said.
 
 Another resident, Banshi Katkar said, “We feel helpless about putting in so much efforts for rainwater harvesting as the groundwater table in our area is going down. We have taken up the issue with the builder, but there is no satisfactory response.”
 
 Ghule said she had written to the tehsildar to acquire the borewell. “Our next step will be decided by them. The legality of construction is the Pune Metropolitan Regional Development Authority’s jurisdiction,” she said.
 
 A representative of   said, “We have all the permissions from   about construction and use of water. We are completely transparent about our operations and the residents are welcome to clear their doubts with us.”
 
 Only the state irrigation department has the authority to allow use of groundwater, city-based activist Vijay Kumbhar said. He has worked extensively on the issue of misuse of water. 
 
 “An area sarpanch cannot permit or deny its extraction. It can certainly not be allowed in areas where there is a water scarcity, that too for construction purposes. It’s sad that permissions and approvals are taken easily by paying money and that is what is causing the groundwater table to deplete so fast,” he said. 
 
 
