That art traverses boundaries and connects people is no secret. But what happens when an initiative of illustrations turns into a street movement? It replaces fear with trust, creativity and collective imagination. The brainchild of Bengaluru-based contemporary artist  ,   is all set to transform   into a bustling hub of music and murals over the weekend. The newest chapter of   brings with it people-led narratives, live music, poetry and baskets of fresh jasmine.

 
 Just back from a whirlwind trip around globe – covering places like Indonesia, South Africa, Brazil and Lebanon – Shilo says, “The KR Flower Market is an incredible oasis in the city which has this surreal vibe to it. Although it’s a market area, there is this subtle side to it. It’s full of life and colours, thanks to the flower sellers. And because our collective primarily engages itself with women empowerment initiatives and aims to create safer public spaces, the flower market seems apt to showcase our artworks.”
 Founded in 2012, the collective has been constantly working with people from different cultures, activists, visual artists, photographers and filmmakers across nations to voice concerns against sexual violence and gender bias. Their art campaigns engage people from the transgender community as well as migrants and refugees.
 
 
 Stirred by magical realism and art activism, Shilo’s recent installation at Burning Man illustrates biofeedback technology, a craft that blends art for social change with technology. Called Grove, it is an interactive art installation that is described as a “magical metal forest that uses breath sensors to create a forest of trees that breathe”. “Grove uses senses that interact with different parts of our body. It is about the importance of communication in a world torn by conflict, trauma and suffering,” explains the artist, who is well-known for her gypsyesque lifestyle and illustrious travelogues.
 
 
 Following an afternoon soaked in flowers, murals and musical notes at KR Market, the Migratory Sessions will head to another venue in the city for more conversations, workshops, film screenings and a DJ evening with Monica Sharma Dogra.
 
 
