KOLHAPUR: The India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) recent prediction about timely arrival of the monsoon has provided relief to the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) which is facing a tough task in managing water supply to the citizens. 

 The IMD has predicted that the monsoon will be on time and sufficient this year. Usually the monsoon reaches Kerala in the first week of June and advances to the south Maharashtra region in the middle of June. 
 
 The water stock in the dams is sufficient to provide water to the cities and towns in the district. However, the demand for water for irrigation is increasing. The civic authorities said that the available water can be used for the next two months. However, concerns may arise if the monsoon is delayed till July, which happened twice during 2013-15. 
 
 Suresh  , chief hydraulic engineer of the KMC, said, “The water level in the dams is above the critical level. The live storage in the dams such as Radhanagari,   and Tulshi, which can be used for drinking purpose, is more than that last year this time. Last year, we had a critical situation in April and we had to resort to alternate day water cuts.”
 
 The KMC is going to initiate measures to stop water loss during distribution and in theft. The amount of water lifted from the river at   and other pumping stations is around 120 million litres a day. However, only around 75 MLD reaches the citizens, while the rest is lost in distribution and water theft. Recently the civic has decided to monitor the use of electric pumps to draw large quantity of water from the taps. However, due to the lack of adequate staff the decision could not be implemented properly.
 
 “We have planned to plug all the leakages to the pipelines. Also, the weak pipes will be replaced so that the water supply is effective during heavy rains as well. After our appeal, the use of water for unnecessary purposes has been reduced and we want it to continue as we are unsure about timely rains,” said Kulkarni. 
 
