PATNA: The fourth day of silver jubilee celebrations and international conference on ‘Bihar and Jharkhand: Shared History to Shared Vision’, organised by  , saw Barh Mukti Abhiyaan convener Dinesh K Mishra presenting his lecture on ‘River, Land and People: The Kosi Trail’.
 
  Mishra said floods, which were a rural phenomenon, have become an urban phenomenon in Bihar and are more prolonged. “Earlier, the floods were of maximum two-and-half days’ duration and considered good for agriculture. However, floodwaters stay for as long as more than two months these days, causing massive destruction of human lives, livestock and agriculture produces,” he said.
  
  “At least 73% of the land of Bihar is flood-prone. If we take those areas which were flooded due to Kosi bund breach in 2008 into account, it goes to over 80%,” he said.
  
  Mishra added of the four major stakeholders of any flood-tackling scheme – politicians, engineers, contractors and people living in the flood-prone plains – the fourth and the most vital stakeholders have hardly a voice in the decision-making process. He said unless the practical experiences of the so-called “laymen” and “so-called experts” are brought together on one platform, the possibility of finding a solution to the flood menace will elude us. As an insight towards finding a solution, he said there were two aspects to be looked into – water flow and sedimentation. “One knows fairly well how to manage water flow, but tackling sedimentation issue is a problem,” Mishra said, adding Farakka barrage was not the sole reason for destruction due to floods in Bihar.
  
  Presenting his lecture on ‘Bihar floods – challenges ahead’, Stephen Biggs, research associate from   and African Studies, University of London, focussed on how the floods and their aftermaths have led to an increased use of capital goods and equipment and how they have improved rural economy.
  
  Stephanie Leder of  , Nepal, and Panchali Saikia of International Water Management Institute, Delhi, together presented a paper which dwelt on “feminization of agriculture” because of the rural to urban out-migration of men.
  
  Five more technical sessions were held during the day on ‘Inequalities, social justice and protest’; ‘Migration matters’; ‘Bihar and Nepal: Hydraulic and other connections’; ‘Caste, class and religious groups during colonial rule’ and ‘Visual cultures and identities’.
