BENGALURU: Dharmesh was only two months old when his mother Ratna noticed a spot of light on his eyeball. On an optometrist’s suggestion, the Davanagere woman visited a specialist in Bengaluru. The child was diagnosed with  , a rare kind of cancer, in both eyes.

 After two years of treatment at Narayana Nethralaya and check-ups every six months, Dharmesh, now 4, can see clearly in one eye. As the cancer was at an advance stage, the other eye couldn’t be saved. However, a prosthetic eye in its place has minimized the damage.
 
 Retinoblastoma is one of the rarer kinds of cancers prevalent today, affecting 1 in 15,000 children worldwide every year, with the abnormality in the gene being congenital (present at birth) in a third of the cases. In genetic cases, both eyes tend to get affected.
 
 In India, there are 1,500 new cases of   every year. Some of the most visible symptoms include a white dot on the retina and a squint. In many cases, these are ignored as parents think they’ll disappear with age.
 
 “Early detection could offer prompt management and a reduction in visual morbidity. If diagnosed in the early stages, the probability of a disease-free survival is 80-90%. A century ago, the chance of survival was 5%, but this trend has reversed over time,” says Dr Roshmi Gupta, head, ocular oncology, orbital disease and oculoplasty at Narayana. 
 
 “Despite this, the number of cancer-related deaths is high, not because the disease is untreatable, but because of lack of awareness, specialized   institutions and financial restraints,” she adds.
 
 
 
 In many cases, the cost factor affects treatment, especially when the patient comes from a poor family. For such children, Iksha Foundation offers a ray of hope. Founded by IT professional Thanmaya Bekkalale and his wife, when their son was misdiagnosed with retinoblastoma in 2010, the foundation offers financial support to patients suffering from this rare disease.
 
 “When doctors said that our son was suffering from retinoblastoma, we realized it was a rare form of cancer and, therefore, not covered under many government schemes,” says Thanmaya. Luckily in their case, the diagnosis wasn’t right. The couple however decided to help other children suffering from the same aliment. About 80% of the funds raised by the foundation come from individual donors.
 
 “We’ve also started awareness campaigns, with a slogan, ‘If it’s white, it’s not alright’, since in most cases, parents are unaware of the symptoms,” says Thanmaya. Most of the patients are referred to the foundation by doctors and hospitals. One of the trustees visit the family to assess the situation. Since 2010, the foundation has financially supported 53 children suffering from retinoblastoma. 
 
 
