KOLKATA: After his release from   last September,   had started penning his autobiography. He had shared his manuscript with his psychiatrist, who found the writing 'extremely refined, coherent and racy'. Even though it's not clear if he had completed it, De was apparently very excited about being able put down his viewpoints and experiences and felt it would help to clear the misconceptions about him. The autobiography, De believed, would make people stop vilifying him. 

 Even though the psychiatrist refused to elaborate on the autobiography, sources close to an NGO said it reflected the fact that De had been recovering satisfactorily. The 44-year-old had been attending a rehabilitation programme at a city NGO that he would visit regularly. A clinical psychologist at the NGO was supervising his rehabilitation and screening his progress. 
 
 "The rehab was going on very well and De was making good progress. While there had been nothing to suggest that he could lapse into depression, the psychologist felt he was on the right path," said a psychiatrist following his treatment. De had attended an event at the NGO in January and spent an entire day at its office. "He looked quite normal, relaxed and on the recovery path," disclosed a source. 
 
 But the autobiography had left his doctors pleasantly surprised. De has always loved to write, though. Soon after the skeletons had been discovered at his   residence, pages of jottings had been found by the police. Most of it was penned by De, but police had claimed that the writing was often inconsistent and contradictory. While those were more in the form of a diary, De was now penning a proper memoir. And this time, he was apparently doing a much better job. 
 
 "While I can't comment on the autobiography, it certainly indicates that he was recovering. The fact that he could write suggests that he was being able to gather his thoughts and reflect upon his actions. If he was indeed penning his thoughts, it would be interesting to go through the pages," said psychiatrist J Ram.
 
 Paradoxically, the fact that he could finally analyze his actions might have led to a "post-psychotic depression", Ram added. "De was schizophrenic and such patients usually lapse into depression when they realize what they have lost. In De's case, the sense of loss was very acute for he had lost his family in a macabre way. The realization must have pushed him towards despair. Such patients need constant care and support. Unfortunately, we don't have a community support system for people like De. So, while his rehabilitation was on the right track, the lack of support at home probably killed him," said Ram.
 
 Psychiatrist   agreed. All schizophrenic patients tend to  , Ray pointed out. "With treatment, the depression ebbs and the patient recovers. De must have recovered sufficiently to be able to pen his thoughts. It signals that he could think logically, recollect his past and reflect. He could now possibly realize the implications of all that had happened. This would have triggered a depression again and this is the most crucial phase of treatment. While the patient looks in control and apparenly normal, he or she could actually be going through an inner turmoil. So, it would be quite interesting to read what he had written," said Ray.
 
