CHENNAI: The Central Board of Secondary Education ( ) may be trying to promote   at its schools, but the quality of the study material supplied have come under the scanner.

 A section of parents has complained that the books are made available very late, and their print quality and presentation are bad. “Some books are in such condition that they cannot be termed new. The printing is such that the lines overlap. Quality of some of the social sciences books given to Class VI this year is terrible. If   wants schools to use its books, then it better spend money to ensure good print quality,” said Jaya Narayanan, a parent.
 
 Some schools said the quality of books has been a concern for some years now. A teacher of a CBSE school said the print bore a faded look and the binding was weak. Students have to get the book laminated immediately after purchase. “We find the content to be of very good quality but without extra binding, the books won’t last through the year,” she said. Cost cutting done to print huge volumes of books could be a reason for the poor quality of material, she said.
 
 Vishnucharan, correspondent of Shree Niketan group of schools, Tiruvallur said with growing number of CBSE schools, the demand for NCERT books has grown and the bulk has taken a toll on the printing.
 
 The growing demand has also led to a delay in the availability of books. NCERT books are delivered in June while private publishers start supplying books from March or April. “How can Class X students prepare for exams when the supply of books is delayed,” a parent asked.
 
 A reason for the delay could be the absence of a book depot in the state. Schools in   are dependent on sellers who source books from the depot in Bangalore. “When there are more than 500 CBSE schools in the state, the issue (depot) has to be addressed,” said principal, Bhavans Rajaji Vidyashram, Ajeeth Prasath Jain.
 
 While e-books are available, students require books during classroom sessions. As per a CBSE circular, NCERT books have been recommended by the board for the middle classes “as far as practicable”. However, for Classes IX to XII, all major subjects must have NCERT publications. Most schools in the state follow this rule.
 
