NEW DELHI: Syed Asif Ali Nizami, one of the two Sufi clerics who went missing in   last week, rejected media reports that he and his nephew had been 
  on spying charges. 

 Without explaining what led to their disappearance, the cleric narrated a curious tale of being blindfolded and taken to an unknown location, where he was greeted with a degree of hospitality.
 
 "I was sitting at the   Airport, carrying my boarding pass when suddenly some people came and told me there were some details lacking in my passport. When the flight was about to depart, I was asked to accompany them. I felt helpless. Soon 8-10 people surrounded me and I was taken out through another gate," Asif Ali said.
 
 "I was taken to a place quite far from Karachi, with my face covered. I was offered food, they prepared tea and biscuits for me," he said. 
 
 He also denied being mistreated by the Pakistani authorities, insisting that "no force or coercion was used" against them.
 
 "We were not troubled, and were kept in VIP rooms. My details were asked, Dargah's details too," Asif Ali said.
 
 When asked as to why they were "interrogated", Asif Ali's nephew Nazim Ali Nizami said they were asked about their visa and other immigration details.
 
 Some Pakistani media reports had said the two had been in "interior Sindh where there was no communication network" and that was why they could not inform their relatives about their whereabouts. Nazim Ali Nizami strongly rejected the claim.
 
 "We did not have visa for Sindh interior region, so how could we have gone there? The reports that we could not be contacted because of network issues is totally false," Nazim told reporters.
 
 The two clerics thanked the governments of India and Pakistan for their safe return home and met with foreign minister   in Delhi today.
 
 "We thank union home minister   and 
  and well-wishers from all religions who prayed for our return," they told reporters.
 
 Seeming undeterred by their strange experience in Pakistan, where Sufi followers have been targeted by extremists, the clerics expressed their desire to visit the country again.
 
 "I will definitely go to Pakistan again, bearing a message for peace and love," Nazim Ali said effusively.
 
 Syed Asif Ali Nizami and his nephew Nazim Ali Nizami, both clerics of Delhi's  , had gone to Pakistan on March 8 to visit relatives. The duo went missing from Lahore airport on March 14, sparking reports that they had been detained by Pakistani intelligence agencies.
 
 The two clerics were traced to Karachi on March 18 and landed at the airport today morning and went home.
 
 
 
 
