 can never fall short of  . With every passing season, the ingredients change and so does the cooking method. Depending on the time of the year, the average Goan household is known to pick, preserve and utilize these tart fruits. One such versatile berry is the  .
 
  Commonly known as cucumber tree or tree sorrel, Averrhoa bilimbi is a fruit-bearing tree found in almost everyone’s backyard. These beautiful bimbli trees with almost florescent coloured leaves are lush and green, bearing fruits throughout the year. With one of these trees to your name, you almost never have to shell out on tamarind or any souring agent for your cooking.
  
  Speaking of backyards, the tree was usually planted near a well. Long before indoor bathrooms were a part and parcel of life, Goans would make their way to the well at the end of a long day for their refreshing baths. Whether by fate or design, the bimbli tree would take root close to this source of water, so that every day it could guzzle its fill and bear plump fruits.
  
  Because of its high water content, bimbli is usually hard to store and requires a long, not necessarily tedious process of preservation. The fruit is quartered lengthwise and heavily salted to draw out the moisture. It is then let to bask in the sunshine for further drying out. Sealed in airtight jars, the sour fruit will keep for months; perfect for rainy days when the berry is unavailable but the craving for curry still persists. The process is usually a family affair, with all the women getting together to slice, salt and sun.
  
  It is usually added to lentils, vegetable gravies, but most famously to prawn curry. Of course, many households are known to pickle them, transform into chutneys, and prolong their shelf life. In addition to the sourness, the bimbli has a very unique flavour which lends curries a special taste much different from tamarind. It also makes an appearance in the popular Goan curry, caldinha. Those who want to give their curry a hint of tang, but not the earthy colour of tamarind, reach for slices of bimbli to do the deed.
  
  Goans use a lot of other souring agents in their food. Similar preservation methods are inflicted on mango seeds (padde), raw mango slices, kokum, and of course tamarind. Salted and laid out in the sun, these natural wonders go a long way in preserving taste and tradition.
