NEW DELHI: The Army is extremely upset at the apparent failure of the   (OFB) and the directorate general of quality assurance (DGQA) to fix responsibility and take stringent action against erring officials responsible for the devastating blaze at the central ammunition depot (COD) at Pulgaon in   last year.

 Sources on Wednesday said Army vice chief Lt-General   has written an official letter to defence secretary Sanjay Mitra to point out that no accountability had yet been fixed for the Pulgaon blaze, which left 19 personnel dead and injured 17 others as well as destroyed tonnes of ammunition on May 31 last year.
 
 "Life comes very cheap in India. The sheer lack of accountability for such a major accident, in which two Army officers, four Defence Security Corps guards and 13 fire-fighters lost their lives, erodes faith in the entire system," said a highly-placed source.
 
 "There is an urgent need to pinpoint responsibility on both the production agency (OFB) and DGQA to restore confidence in the system. The Army completed its court of inquiry (CoI) into the incident long ago. But similar inquiries by the OFB and DGQA have not been made available," he added.
 
 The Army CoI attributed the blaze to "excessive exudation of highly-explosive   and resultant explosion" of 19,325 defective anti-tank `ND-1A' mines stored in the Pulgaon CoD, the "mother depot" which feeds the entire 1.3-million forces through 14 field ammunition depots around the country, as reported earlier by TOI.
 
 Shockingly, the Army had repeatedly pointed out to the secretary (defence production), OFB and the controller of quality assurance (ammunition) under the DGQA, through a series of letters since February 2010, that the storage of the defective mines at the Pulgaon COD posed a major security hazard.
 
 But to no avail. The buck was passed from one agency to another for over six years, with the ordnance factory at   resorting to merely repairing the segregated mines with "better sealing" instead of their immediate disposal as was required.
 
 "Even DRDO's High Energy Materials Research Lab (HEMRL) in 2012 had clearly dubbed the defective mines, which had started leaking TNT within four months against the stipulated 10-year shelf-life, as a safety hazard. But Chanda ordnance factory brushed it aside," said another source.
 
 The then defence minister Manohar Parrikar had directed formulation of three standard-operating procedures (SOP). The first was defective ammunition's disposal in a fixed time-frame. The Army has destroyed almost the entire lot of around 3.5 lakh defective anti-tank mines since then.
 
 The second SOP was "hand-holding" of the production agency (OFB) by the designing agency (DRDO) in terms of transfer of technology. This, too, has been somewhat achieved. But the third SOP, dealing with "fixing responsibility for defect and regularization of loss" and timelines for management and disposal of defective ammunition, is yet to be finalized, say sources.
 
 It has been seen over the years that ammunition and ordnance depots in the country continue to pose a security hazard due to lack of proper storagefacilities, defective ammunition, poor "demilitarization" methods, inadequate fire-fighting and security infrastructure, among other things.
 
