BENGALURU: It was on May 23, 2003 and a group of four men was enjoying their evening coffee at a roadside stall. Suddenly, a man came rushing towards them seeking help to arrange blood for his relative. Without any second thought, they rushed to the nearby hospital, but it was too late. 

 The death of an unknown patient first led to anger and then disappointment. Eventually, the incident prompted them to do something to bring in a positive change. They visited the blood banks in the city and volunteered to help the needy. “None should die due to lack of blood. Don’t say no to any patient. Give them our numbers,” they told them. The group became stronger in 2007 when Sankalp India Foundation was formed with a helpline number. Routine blood donation camps are its backbone. The four men till today remain anonymous. 
 
 “The patient’s relatives need not enquire with all blood banks and instead, dial one number and know the availability of blood units required in their vicinity,” says Rakesh Dhanya, one of the founders of Sankalp. The Foundation today answers 40 calls a day and coordinates for blood donation. In 2016-17, it received 6,348 calls; 27 per cent of the requests were from outside Bengaluru.
 
 “ Most of the callers sought blood for patents at   Institute of Child Health (IGICH). The callers were parents of children who were suffering from thalassemia and in need of blood transfusion. We realized the need for providing day care centre for blood transfusions and we plunged into it,” adds Rakesh.
 
 Thalassemia is a genetic blood disorder in which a patient cannot make enough red blood cells (RBC) and needs to be supplemented with transfusions every 2-3 weeks to stay healthy.It runs two day care centres for thalassemia patients to facilitate free blood transfusions. In association with the government-run Indira Gandhi Institute of Child Health, it has also started Samraksha daycare centre jointly with Rastrottana blood bank. The third centre is in KLE Belagavi. As many as 800 patients are assisted by Sankalp.
 
 Patients in the age group of six months to 47 years are given free blood transfusions in the facility at Samraksha. “We also get 5-10 per cent of patients from   and  . We manage transfusions for 300 patients on rotation,” said Dr Reshma Srinivas, medical officer at Samraksha.
 
 As it is known that the only permanent cure for thalassemia is through bone marrow transplant, Sankalp has also been working on this field for the past two years, through its collaborations with one each hospital in Bengaluru ( ), Mumbai (Kokilaben Hospital) and Ahmedabad (CIMS). So far, 50 bone marrow transplants have been conducted by Sankalp .
 
 Sankalp uses custom-built technology platforms in all projects; all project related data is captured digitally on a day-to-day basis. This gives the teams an opportunity to not just view retrospective data from time to time, but also analyze it and improve the work. Contribution to the field of transfusion medicine, thalassemia and bone marrow transplants is an added advantage of using technology.
 
 Now, Sankalp has progressed from a voluntary organization to something that today employs a dozen people in change-making roles. “With the purpose of ‘Giving Life A Better Chance’, we wanted to fight the limitations in the healthcare delivery mechanisms in the field of blood donation and thalassemia by building systems to address problems associated with these domains,” says  , project incharge at Sankalp.
 
 Bombay blood group patients from abroad get help
 
 Sankalp has also assisted international patients with rare Bombay blood group through its wide network of donors. In February 2013, a 70-year-old man with Bombay blood group from Istanbul, who was suffering from lung cancer, contacted Sankalp. The rare blood group units were sent from Bengaluru.
 
 In January, a nun from Sri Lanka with Bombay blood group, suffering from leukemia, sought blood units from Sankalp as she underwent chemotherapy in Colombo. “The nun’s friend came to Bengaluru to pick up blood units and we were able to airlift them from National Institute of Immuno-Hematology in Mumbai,” said Rajat Agarwal.
 
 Bombay blood group is present in 0.0004% of global human population, belonging to O+ve category. In India, one among 10,000-17,000 persons has this group. Individuals with this blood group can only be transfused with similar blood. The Foundation’s service is available 24X7 on 9480044444.
 
 
