BHOPAL: Noted scriptwriter, lyricist and poet Javed Akhtar on Friday said language has no religion and government of India must accept that Urdu is Indian language without any religion. He was speaking at the state-level award ceremony of Madhya Pradesh Urdu academy at Ravindra Bhawan here on Friday.

 “Pakistan stakes claim both on Kashmir as well as Urdu language, but the truth is both do not belong to that country.”
 
 Akhtar hit out at those who aim to cry foul on the purity of the language and try to divide it on religious as well as regional lines. The 70-year-old artist said parents should impart Urdu education to their children as much as they do with other subjects. He said Urdu is the only secular language in the whole world. “I say this with authority that Urdu is the only language in world which started poetry on secular lines. Poetry in other languages was first started on religious lines,” he added.
 
 Speaking about the future of native languages in a globalised world, he stated people have created own narrow notions about learning Indian languages. “This world has become a language of twitter,” he said.
 
 Akhtar also pointed out the short-comings of the Indian education system that does not allow children to “explore their mother tongue”. “Though learning a universal language is important, but a child has the right to use his mother tongue on a public platform. People have divided education too in the name of language. If a student is speaking Urdu or Hindi, he is a poor government school kid and if a child is speaking English, he is a convent kid,” he further said.
 
 The artist also shared his current pursuit with the audience and recited few lines of it as ‘Zara mousam to badla hai magar paidu ki shakhu par’.
 
 Madhya Pradesh Urdu Academy award is given by the state each year to the Urdu litterateurs and poets. This year (2015-16) and (2016-17), awards were conferred to Javed Akthar along with 29 other poets from state and all over India by the academy.
 
 The total number of awards was 18, among which five were all-India level and 13 state-level. The 18 awards were given to 30 poets, writers and journalists. On the occasion Akthar received ‘Mir-taki-Mir award, Nusrat Zaheer (Delhi), received Johar Qureshi award, Hamid Saeed award was given to Malka Naseem , Hakim Qamarul Hasan award to Shahid Lateef, Shadan Indori award to Javed Arshi.
 
 Similarly under the State awards, Iqbal Bedar (Bhopal) with Siraj Meer Khan Sahar Award, Parveen Saba (Bhopal) with Basit Bhopali award, Dr. Arjumand Bano (Bhopal) with Mohammad Ali Taj award, Zia Farooqui (Bhopal) with Nawab Siddique Hasan Award, Afsar Sehbai (Bhopal) with Sheri Bhopali award, Farman Ziyai (Sironj) with Kaif Bhopali award, Anita vastava Tamanna (Jabalpur) with Shambhu Dayal Sukhan award and sajid Premi (Bhopal) with Sifa Gwaliori award were honoured.
 
 The Urdu Academy gave away selected 5 under the All India awards to   (Bhopal) who received Hakim Qamarul Hasan award, Asad Raza (Delhi) for Johar Qureshi award, Gopichand Narang (Delhi) for Mir Taqi Mir award, Naresh (Chandigarh) for Hamid   award,   (Indore) for Shadan Indori award and Akhtar Vamik (Bhopal) for Siraj Meer Khan Sahar award. Similarly under the state awards, Basit Bhopali award to Javed Yazdani (Bhopal), Mohammad Ali Taj award to   (Ujjain), Nawab Siddique Hasan award to Prof. Abdul Majeed Khan (Bhopal), Sheri Bhopal award to Dr. Marziya Arif (Bhopal), Kaif Bhopali award to Sikander Jahan Sikander (Jabalpur), Shambhu Dayal Sukhan award to Usha Bhadoria (Bhopal), Shifa Gwaliori award to Mushahid Saeed Khan (Bhopal), Nawab Shahjehan Begum Tajwar award to Rabab Fatima Zaidi (Bhopal), Pannalal Noor award to Babu Anwar Nizami (Jabalpur), Suraj Kala Sahay Sarwar award to Iqbal Masood (Bhopal), Nisar Akhtar award to Dr. Mohammad Azam (Bhopal) and Nida Fazli award to Idris Munis ( Bhopal).
 
