Nagpur: Why is the ‘Blue Whale Challenge’ being so hyped and who is benefiting from it, questioned lawyer Mahendra Limaye in a counselling session for parents and teachers, on Tuesday. The programme was held at his residence in Sitabuldi with a view to spread awareness about the infamous online game.

 Limaye, who is specialized in cyber law, runs an NGO called Cyber Awareness Organization. 
 
 He said, “There is still a lot of mystery because even though the game is largely held responsible for driving youngsters to commit suicide, the police have not found any conclusive link. No one has even come forward with the online link or page.”
 
 The lawyer said he has been studying the recent cases which are allegedly linked to suicides of three to four youths across the country. Limaye questioned the government’s initiative to ban Internet searches about the game. 
 
 Casting aspersions on this move, he said, “Why is the government suddenly taking keen interest in the matter? Its not that there is some link to a webpage or a phone application for Blue Whale. And even if searches for the keywords are banned, how come many people across the world still have access to it?”
 
 Limaye admitted that even he hasn’t found any answers to his own questions yet, but is following the subject closely.
 
 Another point the lawyer raised during the session was that the suicide attempts that were averted in recent days were immediately claimed to have been linked to Blue Whale.
 
 Limaye said, “The way the game has been hyped makes it easy for the public to arrive at such conclusions quickly. Even if we look at suicides that have taken place, post mortem of the bodies were done, but the victims’ Internet history was not looked into.”
 
 The Blue Whale Challenge, which originated in Russia, is being targeted at youths suffering from depression. The administrator calls these youth ‘human waste’ and says they need to be eradicated.
 
 Limaye said that abnormal social behaviour and staying aloof are telltale signs a teenager could be depressed. Parents should pick up on such behavioural patterns and act.
 
  They should also keep track of their wards Internet activity every day, said Limaye. Parents should initiate a conversation with their kids the lack of which is the reason why kids fall prey to such schemes in the first place. A two hour chat in a day will be healthy, he added.
 
 (Reporting by Mohnish Nelarwar)
 
 
