GURUGRAM: The residents of villages surrounding   staged a protest near the waste treatment plant on Tuesday against the MCG’s plan to set up a waste-to-energy plant with the help of a Chinese company in Bandhwari.

 Demanding relocation of the waste treatment plant, the protesters threatened to go on an indefinite hunger strike if the government went ahead with its plan and engaged a Chinese company for this Rs 400 crore project. 
 
 “We urge the government to dis-engage the Chinese firm and stop dumping waste in eco-sensitive Aravali,” said social worker Acharya Santosananda Avadhuta, who led the protest on Tuesday under the banner of Kura Kachra Nistaran Samiti. 
 
 Avadhuta claimed that around 1,500 tonnes of garbage is daily dumped in the forest area leading to the contamination of the ground water. “This garbage hill has turned into a health hazard for the villagers living near the area. Locals should stop dumping waste and work on the de-centralised model of processing of waste,” said Avadhuta adding that dumping waste in forest areas is against the SC order. 
 
 The residents had earlier written to chief minister   informing him that garbage was being dumped in the forest area. “The Supreme Court had explicitly prohibited pollution of the forest areas as it disturbs the ecological balance and poisons the water and food of animals and birds as well,” Avadhuta said.
 
 The letter had pointed that groundwater in around 30 villages in the vicinity of Bandhwari in Gurgaon district, including Mangar, Baliawas and Gwalpahari, is polluted. “The   (CPCB) and the Central Ground Water Authority (CGWA) examined the ground water and their report confirms these facts,” claimed Avadhuta.
 
 CGWA has declared the Aravali forest range as a Critical Water Recharge Zone with Bandhwari being its nucleus. “The water recharged here provides drinking water to Faridabad, Gurgaon and Delhi. Therefore its contamination jeopardises the lives and welfare of the people and wildlife of all three areas,” said Saurav Singh, a resident of Bandhwari village.
 
 “We will appraise the urban local bodies department about the concerns raised by the protesters and action will be taken accordingly,” said a senior MCG official. 
 
 
