The recent death of a 24-year-old Bengaluru boy, who jumped off a high-rise in Mumbai after video-streaming his intentions live on social media, as well as Kannada actor-director Pratham’s attempt to kill himself, has once again put the spotlight on suicide. Public discussions about depresssion and other life-threatening mental issues and the need to seek professional help, instead of taking extreme steps are at an all-time high.
 And, given the close connection between reel and real life, it is not surprising that several movies and   shows have explored the issue. Here’s a look at some of the recent ones.
 
 
 
 
 Based on Jay Asher's book of the same name, this TV show is centered around the suicide of the protagonist (Hannah Baker) and the events that led her to it. Narrated through recordings addressed to her classmates and friends who drove her to take her own life, the show cautions viewers to be conscious of their words and deeds, apart from raising awareness about depression.
 
 
 
 
 With a protagonist who has been diagnosed with clinical depression, this film presents an honest take on the illness and shows how having a strong support system can go a long way in helping those with the disorder. The film also deals with issues like suicide, drug use, sexual abuse and homosexuality, among others.
 
 
 
 
 Anushka Sharma's most recent release dealt with the issue of suicide - albeit fleetingly. The actress's character   commits suicide and her soul lingers on in the real world. While the subject is dealt with primarily as a comedy, there are undercurrents of socially-relevant issues like
 marriages and superstitions and deals with suicide and its ramifications.
 
 
 
 
 In the original series of the early 1990s, the show pioneered the portrayal of depression, eating disorders and other mental illnesses. The recent version of this series revisits this subject and had, in fact, one of its lead characters, Cam, committing suicide, indicating that anybody can fall victim to mental illnesses.
 
 
 
 
 The crux of this Tamil movie is protagonist Ram’s (Dhanush) suicide, which is gradually revealed to have been fuelled by his degrading mental health, which spiralled into bipolar disorder. As one of the first movies to base a majority of its premise on a mental illness and its sad realities, 3 was a groundbreaking film.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Deals with the concept of online bullying and the effects that it has on the lead character, ultimately pushing her to commit suicide - although the attempt is thwarted.
 
 
 
 Even though this Hindi film starring   in the lead focused on the downfall of her character's career, as opposed to its cause (bipolar disorder), this movie helped in making mental illness an issue of public importance.
 
 
 The subject of Sarat Chandra Chattopadhyay's novel has been used for reel multiple times and depicts of the title character's depressive disorder and subsequent degeneration to substance abuse.
 
 
 
 
 
 
