THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The transfer of three   of department of survey and vigilance and  , who have been working on total   as part of the probe into the illegal   at Mookkunnimala, has come as a shocker. 

 The officials have been transferred from the duties at a time when they were about to complete the most crucial aspect of the probe report – ascertaining the quantum of financial loss to the state government due to the unauthorised quarrying.
 
 While vigilance DSP R D Ajith, who has been investigating the case and has filed FIRs implicating panchayat officials, revenue officials and quarry owners were transferred two weeks ago, vigilance CI A Rabiyath and Neyyatinkara taluk surveyor R V Suresh were transferred from their respective duties on Saturday.
 
 According to officials, the transfer has come at the most inopportune time and a cloud of suspicion has emerged over the transfer orders. The team, which that completed the total station survey in December following the high court order, has already filed a detailed report before the high court pointing out the encroachments on government land. The probe team also noted the lapse on the part of two former district collectors and former land revenue commissioner in taking proper steps to recover the government land.
 
 The team also found out that between 1992 and 2002, around sixty government plots were given pseudo numbers and assigned to new owners. The village officers had reportedly assigned the numbers without the consent of the then collectors. Later, this land was given on lease and even licence was issued for quarrying in these areas. It was found that at least eight major mining companies had encroached the government property.
 
 The team has been working for the past four months on calculating the quantum of loss by putting together a series of conclusions like depth of pits resulted due to mining, the volume of rock being excavated and average duration of mining per day. Sources said the first report pegged the loss at Rs 55 crore.
 
 However, the team sought a re-verification of the report after considering various other factors that indicated a much higher loss. The officials were in the process of finalising the amount when the transfer orders came.
 
 Sources said the transfer orders did not follow procedures. It is learnt that the survey official would file an appeal against the transfer order. The other officials, however, said they ought to respect the order.
 
 The quarry owners had earlier filed repeated petitions seeking transfer of Rabiyath from the post after FIRs were filed against some quarry owners.
 
