HYDERABAD: If efforts of the   fructify, patients visiting 11   in the city need not go to private   located around the hospitals. To lessen  , authorities are finalising plans to strengthen   in government hospitals.

 Authorities said they are preparing rate cards and then they would soon float tenders for buying equipment. “An expert committee has been floated to draw the plan, and we are also making a list of equipment that is required in the hospitals,“ Dr Ramani, director of medical education told TOI.
 
 A high-level meeting was conducted on Friday on this issue and the government wants to implement it in about a month's time.
 
 Authorities say that each of the main government hospitals, which offers free medical test services, the others are surrounded by at least a dozen private diagnostic centres.
 
 “They have strong broker network, who always try to get patients from government hospitals, and mint money ,“ said a top official in the health department.“There is a strong network among these labs also, and we cannot prevent them from doing their business and certainly make our services better,“ officials said.
 
 In order to strengthen diagnostic services in hospitals where emergency cases land, the first step is to ensure that 24 hour services are offered to patients.
 
 While the morning lab and in-patient lab continues to provide services, the private lab operators catch mostly patients who are in need for emergency labs offering 24 hour services.
 
 Officials said they are planning to replace the MRI machines in Osmania, Gandhi, MNJ hospitals and also ensure that they have replacement machines in case the first machines fail.Similarly , CT scans will be replaced and second machines will be put to operation in these hospitals.
 
 Officials say that private labs trying to cash in on patients is more in Gandhi, Osmania and Niloufer hospitals, where most of the emergency cases are headed. The plan also envisages strengthening ICU services in the hospitals. “We are identifying the gaps in ICU services to provide better care so that poor people need not be at the mercy of private hospitals charging them high,“ an official said.
 
