AHMEDABAD: Gujarat's first car manufacturing plant set up by General Motors (GM) India at Halol near Vadodara is set to shut down next month.With the March 2017 deadline for discontinuing production at the facility nearing the end, the company is readying itself to close the plant sometime in April.

 The Indian subsidiary of US automobile giant General Motors had in July 2015 announced closure of the facility by mid-2016. Later, the company decided to continue production till March 2017 to ensure an orderly transition for employees, suppliers and other stakeholders.
 
 “The plant will cease to function after the March 2017 deadline. The exact data for closure has not been decided yet but it is unlikely to remain operational for more than two weeks or so after the deadline,“ said sources privy to the development.
 
 Top officials from the company recently held a meeting with senior government officials to discuss the exit modality after majority of 650-odd workers at the plant not accepting Voluntary Separation Scheme (VSS) offered in December, which promised 100 days of wages to the workers.
 
 “GM has decided to close their plant as per their business decision. The state government has allowed the company to wind up its operation on the assurance that they would resolve all issues related to workers,“ said JN Singh, chief secretary, Gujarat government.
 
 “A month ago, we were offered voluntary separation scheme, which we (the workers) have opposed. As against Rs 35-40 lakh offered to supervisors, the workers have been promised just Rs 8-10 lakh,“ said a worker at the Halol plant.
 
 The company, however, continues its negotiations to sell certain assets of the facility to Chinese automobile giant SAIC Motor Corp. When contacted, the company stated that the discussions with SAIC on the sale of Halol are progressing well. The company continues to work with its employees on the implications of a sale and with the government to secure necessary approvals. The   (CCI) has also approved the acquisition of certain assets of GM's Halol plant by SAIC Motor HK, a part SAIC Motor Corp. “SAIC wants the asset to be encumbrance free with no-objection certificates from state authorities before it goes ahead with the acquisition,“ sources said. Meanwhile, SAIC is also said to be in talks with state governments of Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh and Gujarat for a greenfield car plant.
 
 GM's exit has come at a time when Gujarat has emerged as an auto hub with the likes of Tata Motors,   and Honda Motorcycle & Scooter India Pvt Ltd (HMSI) already commissioning their manufacturing plants in Gujarat.   Corporation (SMC) is soon going to operationalize its plant, while  's two-wheeler facility is under advance stage of development.
 
