YAVATMAL: Preparations for the farmers’ ‘Aasood Yatra’ are in full swing in Yavatmal and rally will be flagged off from the Nagpur based residence of Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis on Tuesday, the birth anniversary of Mahatma Jyotiba Phuley under the banner of Prahar, a political outfit floated by the sitting MLA from   in Amravati district Bachu Kadu which will reach the native village of Prime Minister   Wadnagar in Gujarat on April 22.

 The rally aims to stress for their demands for competitive MSP for agri produces and total loan waiver for the farmers.
 
 The rally will visit Bhoodan leader Vonoba Bhave’s Pavanar Ashram and Bapu Kuti in Sewagram before reaching Yavatmal on the same day. On April 12, there will be a ‘Janata Darbar’ at local Bachat Bhavan wherein Bachu Kadu will hear the hardships of farmers and issues related to farming. This information was given to the media by Bachu Kadu in a press conference held recently here in Yavatmal.
 
 Aasood is the book written by   to highlight the issues faced by the farmers and he also suggested suitable solution for them.
 
 The rally will proceed to Nanded via Arni and Mahagaon and enter the Western Maharashtra before crossing Maharashtra via Nashik to Surat in Gujarat. 
 
 The rally will culminated in to a public meeting at the native village Wadnagar in Gujarat of Prime Minister Narendra Modi after completing its itinerary of 2430 Kilometers and 1000 volunteers will participate in a blood donation camp arranged there, Kadu further said, adding that 75 orgnaisations of Maharashtra and Gujarat have extended their support for the rally so far.
 
 When asked as to what has promoted him to take out such a long distance rally, Kadu said that the BJP leaders Narendra Modi and Devendra Fadnavis have come to power on their promise of ensuring MSP for agriculture products at the rate of input cost plus 50 per cent net profit. They have also promised to substantiate the debt ridden farmers across the country by giving them the relief through loan waiver. None of these promises has been fulfilled and now they are trying to turn a blind eye towards the genuine demands of the farmers, he added.
 
 “The Modi Govt has allotted Rs. one lakh for bullet train running between Ahmedbad (Gujarat) and Mumbai (Maharashtra) stretching a mere 500 kms, aiming to help a handful of business magnets and their executives. The Modi Govt sanctioned 7th Pay commission benefits to its employees by enhancing Rs. 20,000 crore burden on Govt exchequer and to announce Rs. 100 crore LPG subsidy to common man, the Modi Govt is incurring Rs. 250 crore for its advertisement alone. 
 
 The poor farmers when protest in the Mantralaya, they are beaten up mercilessly. How can it be tolerated?,” Kadu asked. “Why not Swaminathan Commission report be implemented while the 7th pay commission report is accepted?,” he further asked.
 
 The Mughal Ruler Afzal Khan might have killed a few Indians while the Modi Govt has killed 3.5 lakh farmers. It is the result of Urban and Rural distinction nurtured by the BJP Govts in the State and Centre, Kadu further said and asked how it can be justified if the Govt grants Rs. 90,000 for a Gharkul for a real beneficiary as against Rs. 3.5 lakh for an urban beneficiary? he asked.
 
 When asked if he is satisfied with the Fadnavis Govt in Maharashtra, Kadu said in negative and said that the CM is under constant pressure from his high command and alliance partner.When asked about the opposition role in Maharashtra, Kadu said they (Cong and NCP) are the main culprits who created such a miserable condition for the farmers due to their wrong and faulty agriculture policy.
 
 The struggle for genuine rights and demands is dead in this country and the political parties are fighting election on caste and religion cards which is dangerous for democracy in the country, he said. Prominent among others attended the press meet include Organiser and District Chief of Prahar Pramod Kudade, Vasu Maharaj, Nitin Mahalle, Ashish Tupatkar and others. (EOM) 
 
