NAGPUR: The mental health care fraternity has a mixed reaction to the Mental Health Act that the Parliament recently enacted. While, on the one hand, it is being seen as a revolutionary, proactive piece of legislation, on the other hand, a lot of questions are being raised on its real effectiveness and implementation. Experts claim that in the absence of psychiatrists in many advisory committees and boards, it may do more harm to patients than good. It is being see as too idealistic and not enough realistic.

 “By and large, it is a good Act, but I feel that it has many overlapping or grey areas,” said Dr Sudhir Bhave, senior psychiatrist in city and professor and head of psychiatry at the NKP Salve Institute of Medical Sciences. “Infrastructure-wise as well as a community, we are still not equipped to follow it in its fineness. The government did not take psychiatrists into confidence while framing the guidelines which is one reason for many flaws in the Act,” he said. Dr Bhave sees the decriminalization of suicide as the biggest positive point in the Act and says that it will help people in distress rather than punish him for trying to commit a suicide. 
 
 Dr Sagar Mundada, a psychiatrist and former state president of   (MARD), says that the same move will help patients come out with facts with the doctor rather than twisting things due fear of legal action. 
 
 Dr  , medical officer and treating psychiatrist at the  , says that patients develop suicidal tendencies due to various reasons, including internal conflicts but when they will not be seen as culprits in making a suicidal attempt they will be able to integrate back with family and society. But he says that patients who have para-suicidal tendencies — those who do not want to kill themselves but hurt themselves physically — cannot be covered under this.
 
 However, the concept of advanced directives is being seen as the biggest flaw in the Act. The concept says that a person with mental illness (PMI) who is not a minor shall have the right to make an advance directive in writing, specifying the way he or she wishes — and doesn’t wish — to be cared for and treated for a mental illness. “When the person is fine, they may declare that they would not be subjected to Electro Convulsive Therapy (ECT). But it is the doctor who knows best when the person needs an ECT or not. In certain conditions, ECT is the only solution. But this directive could prevent doctor from doing their job, which also means that the patient will be deprived of right treatment,” said Dr Bhave. Dr Mundada as well as Dr Kuthe concurred, saying that patients with no insight about their condition will be affected badly.
 
 In a positive step, mentally-ill patients have also been brought under the ambit of insurance. “PMIs will no longer have to conceal their illnesses and seek to unjust certification, ” said Dr Bhave. Dr Mundada says that this will prohibit families from abandoning their relatives due to financial constraints. “In case of repeated relapse too, patients will now prefer to be hospitalized,” said Dr Kuthe.
 
 Though Dr Bhave sees no fault with the philosophy and intention of the Act, he is not happy by bringing everyone dealing with PMIs under the group of Mental Health Professionals. “There should be a delineation between psychologists, counsellors and social health workers,” he says. Dr Mundada, however is very happy with the terminologies being used in the new Act like PMIs, Mental Health Establishments,   as they destigmatize patients in the society.
 
 Since the act is gives PMIs the right to know what treatment they are being subjected to and has been given legal aid right, all experts welcome the Act but Dr Kuthe says,” It is pro-patient and based on human rights but still we are far from the infrastructure and the attitude required for such changes.”
 
 The three experts also opposed the concept of divisional and review boards in their present concept. They said that the boards don’t have enough psychiatric experts on them to handle cases coming to them in the right manner. The new Act also has too much paper work attached to the treatment which will prohibit doctors from giving their full attention to the patient.
 
 Experts have welcomed the overall concept of involving mental health into general hospitals but this may also prevent the patients from getting specialized care.
 
 ACT IN A NUTSHELL
 
 POSITIVES
 
 Ensures availability of good quality mental health services
 
 Ensures that rights of patients are honoured
 
 Government system involved in planning and developing of programmes for prevention of mental health illnesses
 
 Decriminalization of suicide
 
 Provision of emergency admissions on any bed in the country for a period of at least 72 hours if there is danger to patient’s life
 
 Imposing ban on unmodified ECT and restrictions on ECT to minors
 
 NEGATIVES
 
 Mental health care decisions in the hands of non-experts
 
 Marginalisation of families of persons with mental illnesses
 
