The   of the   (FTII) has taken charge of a   for   among children from the   —community radios.

 The programme, christened “Radio Mathematics” or “Gammat Ganitachi”, is fully funded by the department of science and technology of the Union government’s National Council for Science and Technology Communication. FTII aims to produce around 180 episodes — each will be 20- minute-long in Marathi — on Maths awareness in the form of audio magazines, songs and drama.
 
 A survey was conducted in slums like Kelewadi, Dandekar Pool, Bhavani Peth and Main Sabji Mandi by the institute in collaboration with NGO Kagad Kaach Patra Kashtakari Panchayat. This survey identified the need for basic maths education. Speaking to Pune Mirror, Sanjay Chandekar, head of FTII’s radio division, said, “We realised that most people from these areas are duped in their day-to-day activities. They needed to know the basic daily maths, which perhaps would reduce their hassles. We thought of collaborating with 12 community radios, which will largely cover up to 3,000 people from economically weaker sections of society. Our target groups include petty vendors, traders, wastepickers, homemakers from the grassroots and marginalised communities.”
 
 An eight-day radio training programme was constructed by the institute for 16 young members. The programme began from May 8 and ended on Tuesday. Most participants belonged to families of waste-pickers and petty vendors. Members of the NGO also participated in the training which was headed by Naheda Shaikh, a radio consultant for the department of science and technology and FTII radio division head Chandekar. Naheda explained, “We have recorded 10 episodes till now and it primarily amalgamates entertainment and Maths. The students themselves have written songs and dramas. They have also written rap songs. This will definitely hook the young members as the lyrics are extremely catchy. None of the participants thought that they were capable of writing songs and plays. These are demo episodes that we will send to the DST. Then, they will give us an approval for the 180-episode programme, which will be a year-long process free of cost.”
 
 Added Chandekar, “If this is successful, then FTII will almost adopt these youths for a year paying for all their expenses for the programme.”
 
 Prateeksha, one of the participants, said, “I never expected this programme to come my way. This helped me become a more expressive person. It was a fun experience knowing more about radio.” Another participant, Amol, eagerly recollected his experience in writing a rap song on Maths, saying, “The concept of writing on Maths was new. We all have been terrified of Maths, but its importance reflects in our day-to-day life.”
 
