Nagpur: Even as political parties and gorakshaks vociferously oppose cattle smuggling and slaughter, dozens of bovines rescued by city police from cattle smugglers are dying a slow death at a shelter in Bhandewadi. The surviving cows are seen grazing on garbage heaps in the adjacent dumping yard. After an outpouring of emotions while rescuing the cows, few turn up to tend to the animals later. April 21 saw one of the biggest raids of the region, with Pachpaoli police rescuing 346 bovines from Mahendra Nagar. The accused had been preparing to ferry the bovines to an illegal slaughterhouse at Farooque Nagar. The rescued animals were shifted to the gaushala at Bhandewadi run by Gaushala Pashupalan Bahuudeshya Sanstha. When TOI went to check on the animals on Friday, many of them were loitering in the Bhandewadi garbage dumping yard right opposite the gaushala. Lakhs of tonnes of garbage is lying in the dumping yard, including everything from plastic waste, glass and toxic metals to even e-waste. People living in nearby slums said that every day hundreds of cattle from the gaushalas are let loose to feed on the garbage. “We know they are from the gaushala as they have tags around their necks. Even in such high temperatures, the cows and oxen are often out in the afternoon,” residents said. While the two-three workers at the gaushala shepherd them inside once it’s dark, sometimes the animals don’t go back. “They keep roaming around in nearby areas, in search of food and water. It is difficult to keep count of the hundreds of animals,” said a resident. The gaushala spread over 1.45 acre was already home to over 200 bovines. The 346 rescued cattle have added to the perennial shortage of fodder, water and medical care. “Since the day these rescued animals were sent here, no authority or political party has come to offer any help. With the little funds we have, we are building an extra water tank and tin sheds,” says Munna Shukla, caretaker of the cow shelter. Members of Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP), who are engaged in rescuing bovines, say that there are no separate party funds to take care of cows. City-based NGO Sukrut Nirman Charitable Trust is providing fodder for the bovines. “Every alternate day, the NGO sends 300 beds of fodder. Daily, two tonnes of fodder is needed and around Rs20-22,000 is spent on the animals,” says Shukla. Last month, the state government announced it would give Rs1 crore in each district for cow shelters. However, not all the gaushalas fit into the eligibility criteria like having 15 acre land. “We recently met state forest minister Sudhir Mungantiwar and animal husbandry minister Mahadev Janka,” says Sukrut founder Kanakrai Savadia. In a letter written to the ministers, the trust pointed out that 8-10 gaushalas are functioning in every district of Vidarbha. “Not all of them meet the criteria for getting funds, but are sheltering animals. It would be unfair to deprive them of funds,” says Savadia. Post beef ban, overcrowded gaushalas are struggling to make ends meet. “Getting registered with the Animal Welfare Board of India (AWBI) will help them get funds. Gaushalas have to maintain annual audit reports and other necessary documents,” says animal activist Ankita Shah.  However, the board itself is facing a cash crunch due to a curtailed budget. “Gaushalas get no special grants. They should try to become self-sustainable by using dung to produce biogas, organic manure, and cow urine as natural pesticide,” said AWBI officer Ashish Goswami.