n April 2016 in Kochi, a 29-year-old law student Jisha was allegedly raped and murdered by her stalker. Last September in Delhi, a 21-year-old woman was stabbed to death in broad daylight by a man who had been   her for months. In October the same year, a 34-year-old beautician was brutally assaulted and stabbed to death by her stalker. Chennai reported three such incidents last year and in Bengaluru, this year, apart from the incident of mass molestation on NYE, another woman was molested the same night near her home. CCTV clippings of a couple of these incidents have gone viral, proving once again the brazen and unabashed nature of crimes committed against women. It has been established by the police that the Bengaluru woman was being stalked before it escalated to molestation. Do we see a pattern here?

 Kochi Times finds out what our law keepers and victims have to say about the pressing reality of stalkers turning into molesters...
 
 Advocate Mrunalini Deshmukh, who deals with women’s issues, refers to the amendment that was made by the Varma Committee after the Nirbhaya case, which has defined sections for stalking, be it physical or cyber.
 “Stalking is the initial stage where the ultimate intention could be molestation or rape. Women need to issue stern warnings to their stalkers, who usually use random mobiles or public phones. In fact, most of them don’t even know the age of the women they’re stalking. One should complain against stalking and after that, it is the duty of the police officers or the counselling cell to track them down, summon them, give them a dressing down if needed along with a stern warning to ensure they don't repeat it,” says Mrunalini.
 Sharmila Kher, an activist who works for women’s rights, affirms that according to National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) statistics, a stalker is almost always known to you — they know your daily routine. She says, “Women should not expose their vulnerability, and should always be alert. The way to deal with a stalker is to face him. If it’s a call or message, make sure you inform the stalker that his calls are being recorded and the messages will make it to the police diary. Similarly, if it’s a physical stalker, make it a public concern. Shame the crowd for not helping you if needed, and involve them in dealing with the stalker. Women must trust their intuition. If you notice a common face around you too often, go and confront him. Click a picture, post it on social networking sites, so that people are in the know.”
 
 
 
 
 Many times, our legal system is not quite supportive or even serious about cases involving stalkers in the favour of the victim, because of which girls refrain from approaching the police, goes an observation. Activist Dr J Devika says, “Often such instances are trivialized when you try to deal with it legally. At times, the one complaining about it would even be accused of turning paranoid.”
 
 
 
 While it is highlighted that the girl who was molested in Bengaluru was new to the city, Kochi-based IT professional Tess George says, “I don’t think how familiar you are with the city has got anything to do with the vulnerability. 
 
 When you work in a particular office or study in a college, there would be limitation in the number of routes you can take to reach there. I remember a time when a stalker used to station outside my office regularly around the time I would leave, and chase me till the railway station. I couldn’t change the time I would leave too, as there were only a limited number of trains to get back home. Finally, I shared the issue with a few of my male colleagues who started escorting me to the station regularly, post which the stalker backed off.”
 
 Deepthi Devdas, a third year student at Model Engineering College, Thrikkakara, says, “I have had an experience of someone, who knew a lot of students in our campus and hostel, turned stalker to every girl in my hostel. I added this person on FB when I was in the first year of college after getting a friend request, as there were umpteen mutual friends from college. However, I soon started getting vulgar messages from the profile and it’s later that I knew almost everyone in the hostel was getting such messages from the same profile and they have been ignoring them. I tried responding in strong language to shut the person up, but it turned futile. Then, I began sharing screenshots from the person’s message on my wall, post which the stalking stopped.”
 
  Interestingly, while her friends were supportive of her brave move, not everyone could ‘digest’ that she went ahead and ‘publicised’ it. “Some of the girls I knew were scared a lot more as the person shifted the attention to them. My parents said that while it’s okay that I reacted, I shouldn’t have used such strong language,” she recalls.
 
 
 
 Often, women don’t get support from those around them. Vrinda Kaul, a 28-year-old advertising professional, says, “I was living alone in a rented flat in Santacruz and used to frequent a grocery store in the area. After a few days, the vendor started calling me and frequenting my house. He would ring the doorbell at odd hours. My building secretary helped me lodge a complaint at the local police station. After the cops threatened the man with dire consequences, he started entering the building and defecating in the garden while the watchman was away. The people in my society started pressurising me to leave the complex, stating that this was happening because I was a single girl.”
 
 
 
 
 Dr Devika says that girls are also at fault for stalkers turning bold, as they try to brush off the advances as mere romantic pursuits, at first. “There is even a casual usage in our language avan avalude pirake nadakkukayaanu. A lot of people don’t even know that pursuing someone in this fashion is illegal. I remember an instance in Trivandrum in which the son of a liquor baron started chasing a girl I knew. Though he was crossing limits at many instances, the girl and her family was just not ready to file a complaint for the fear of losing their name in the society. The thoughts like ‘will such a move mar her marriage prospects?’ ruled their minds. What they don’t realise is that such silence only encourages more of stalkers to be on the prowl,” she says.
 
 
 
 
 A top lady cop, who did not wish to be named, says, “FIR can be lodged in such cases under Section 354 and Section 354 D of the Indian Penal Code. This is in lieu of a woman being stalked physically or via SMS, instant messaging, social media and calls.However, there are many women who just ask us to identify the stalker and threaten him. Many girls do not come forward to register a formal complaint because of the fear of their families, who might misunderstand them. The possibility of the miscreant causing harm to them or their families in the near future is also a concern
 
 
 
 
 
 
