Physical, psychological or external factors — the reasons for a full stop in your   life could be anything. Unfortunately, sexual problems can not only result in lack of intimacy between couples, but also lead to serious issues in their  . If you want to but still can’t do it, you’ve reached a block. 

 
 
 The most important part is to understand that lovemaking should put you at ease and not worry you. Relax and don’t get hassled. If there’s something constantly bothering you, think about it. Try to figure out the cause of your worry. You are supposed to have fun and get closer to your partner. Discovering the root of your stress will lighten the mood and help you perform better. 
 
 
 
 Relationship therapist and psychologist Veena Chakravarthy says, "When in a sexual rut, try and communicate with your partner. Sit down with him and discuss the problem. Your partner may understand you better and both of you can then figure out a way to deal with it. One of the things that makes sex interesting is having deep connecting conversations with your loved one." 
 
 
 
 Performing the same position every time could be one of the many reasons that could become an obstacle in your sex life. Thus, try something new once in a while. Maybe a new position or a new place. Not only will it keep your spirits high but will also not let boredom creep in. 
 
 
  
 Says relationship counsellor, Seema Hingorrany, "Another reason could be that the romance has fizzled out of your relationship. So why not bring the romance back in? You can go out for a long drive or a candlelight dinner to some quiet place." 
 
 
 
 Role play works wonders in getting back the spark in your sex life. Both of you can pretend to be characters from a movie or strangers who’ve just met in a bar. Get as imaginative as you want. Best bet would be to not play safe at all. Leave your inhibitions behind and tread on something new. 
 
 
 
 If you are the shy, try sexting your partner. This is a great way to cross boundaries and do something new without having to face your partner physically. Send him a rather naughty something while he’s away at work so that there’s much in store for you when he gets back home in the evening.
 
 
 
 If the problem between the two of you cannot be dissolved with discussion —get a professional to help you out. A therapist will guide you to discover a lot of issues that could be one of the reasons for obstacles in your sex life. This way you can sort out your feelings, discover the origin and also know ways to work
 over them.
 
