Five weeks after the Income-Tax Department raided companies associated with   for alleged benami land deals, it was the turn of the Central Bureau of Investigation ( ) to get into the act. On Friday morning, the Rashtriya Janata Dal ( ) chief, his wife   and son Tejaswi found themselves in the CBI’s crosshairs over alleged irregularities in awarding tenders for hotel maintenance when Lalu was railways minister.
 
  The partner in a   that visibly had the upper hand with 80 seats in the 243-seat Bihar Assembly — Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal (United), or JD(U), has 71 and Congress 27 — is now on the back foot. Lalu was quick to accuse the   of “a political conspiracy” but the reality may not be that black-and-white. Not when conspiracy theorists suggest that documents of the alleged land deals were supplied by the CM’s Office. JD(U) members rubbish such charges.
  
  Anyone who has followed Nitish knows he is deft at keeping friends and foes guessing. Poking his partner while sending feelers to an apparent opponent is not new to this master politician. At the same time, the probability of Nitish seeing the futility of the opposition alliance can’t be ruled out. Bihar BJP president Nityanand Rai says that although he does not know what goes on in the mind of Nitish, it appears that he is not happy with the alliance. “Vikas baadhit hai, law and order chaupat hai (there is no development in Bihar under the grand alliance, and law and order too is in the doldrums). We need a government that can match the Central government schemes with those of the state for the overall development of Bihar.”
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  The option? “The JD(U)-BJP government — with Nitish as CM and BJP’s Sushil Modi as deputy between 2005 and 2013 — was a democratic and development-oriented government,” says Rai. Sushil Modi, who preceded Rai as state BJP head, also feels that Nitish would be most comfortable with the BJP. Modi says: “We are now waiting for Nitish to take action. When he was with us, he did not take long to take action against the tainted or the corrupt.” Clearly, Nitish has options. If he has to let go of the RJD in the wake of the latest crackdown and raids, the BJP will hold its hand in an assembly in which 122 is the magic number, of which BJP-led NDA has 58.
  
  
 
  The bigger question, of course, is whether Nitish wants to return to the BJP fold at all. After all, if he left the saffron party in 2013 to pursue national ambitions, will he rely on that same force to keep the grand alliance going? DU professor for political science Sangit Ragi feels there is nothing unusual in the raids on the Lalu clan. “And Nitish too will not react, and will let events take their own course, lest the blame for wrecking the coalition falls on him. But eventually Nitish will have to be out of the coalition to save his image.”
  
  The alliance seemed to be headed that way a month ago, when almost all non-BJP parties flew to Chennai. The occasion was DMK patriarch Karunanidhi¡¦s 94th birthday and the promise was a united opposition. Presidential elections were to be the semifinals before the 2019 Lok Sabha finals. All was going as per plan till the NDA played the Ram Nath Kovind googly on June 19. Even before the opposition could name Meira Kumar as its candidate in this Dalit versus Dalit tango, Nitish chose Bihar Governor Kovind for ideological reasons.
  
  JD(U) officials play down the support for Kovind. "It is an exception, a one-time affair. Be it any other matter of opposition unity, we are all together," asserts JD(U)¡¦s general secretary KC Tyagi. If that is indeed how it¡¦s going to be, the BJP may well fancy its chances of going it alone in Bihar. In the second week of June, Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya threw down the gauntlet, challenging Nitish to hold fresh polls if he believed his development mantra was working. JD(U) officials say they are ready.
  
  "We will easily get a majority. Thanks to prohibition, many women will vote for us," says a party honcho, who did not want to be named. "As long as Nitish is alive, he will be the CM of Bihar." A 16.8% vote share, though, may not be enough to ensure that. To maintain the 30% mark in a multi-party polity, Nitish has to keep his current partner guessing while at the same time supporting the opponent on "ideological grounds".
  
  
 
  
  Excerpts from an interview with 
 , who insists that all the dirt being flung at his party and family is aimed at breaking the grand alliance
  
  
  
  
 
  It is not about creating an alternative to Narendra Modi but about stopping the country from moving towards destruction. The country is not moving towards vikas but vinash. There is no talk of giving jobs to the youth, of farmer distress, but about bharti and deshbhakti. The narrative that has filled public lives revolves around what one ought to eat, what one ought not to eat. We are against this restraint. Hence, we feel that all like-minded socialist and secular parties need to come together.
  
  
 
  Maximum differences are within the BJP — be it in Bihar BJP or at the Centre. There are some who even want to expose that but are not allowed to. It will be good for the country if they work for the betterment of all sections of the society rather than resorting to creating fissures within society.
  
  
 
  Before the mahagatbandhan was formed, there was talk that it would never come into being. That if it is formed, then there will be no consensus on seat-sharing, and if consensus is reached then Laluji will not agree to Nitishji as CM. When the RJD got more seats, they spread rumours that the CM will be from the RJD. They (the BJP) excel in creating such perceptions that are aimed at breaking the grand alliance, but they will not be successful. Mahagatbandhan is in place for the development of Bihar.
  
  
