GUWAHATI: The   may have been planned to showcase the state as a   and the river as a  , but   also see the festival as an opportunity to strengthen India's user right on the river to counter China's. 

 "The message that should go out to the world is how the   is revered in India and how it unites all ethnic people living on both banks of the river. When the world knows more about us and the Brahmaputra, we are sure China will take note of it as well," a top government official involved with the festival told TOI. The river is being projected as a highway to tap the southeast Asian markets under the Centre's Act East Policy. 
 
 Both China and India have been competing with each other for first user rights by announcing dams on the Brahmaputra. The river originates in the Kailash ranges of Himalayas, south of Konggyu Tsho lake in southwestern Tibet, and flows for about a total length of 2,900 km before draining into the Bay of Bengal.
 
 "After China announced the Zangmu hydroelectric project on the upper reaches of Brahmaputra was being operationalized in 2015 and unveiled plans three more projects in Tibet, as a lower riparian state with considerable established user rights to the waters of the river, India conveyed the views and concerns to the Chinese authorities, including the highest levels of the government of the People's Republic of China," the source said.
 
 India and China established an India China Expert Level Mechanism (ELM) on Trans-border Rivers in 2006. In 2013, the two governments signed a Memorandum of Understanding on strengthening cooperation on trans-border rivers to provide flood-season hydrological data and emergency management and exchange views on other issues of mutual interest.
 
 The Brahmaputra, which flows across Tibet from west to east as Yarlung Tsangpo, enters India in Arunachal Pradesh as the Siang river and joins the Lohit river to become Brahmaputra at Sadiya in Assam. The river flows for 916 km to Dhubri before joining the Ganges and then Meghna in Bangladesh to drain into the Bay of Bengal.
 
 While China has planned at least 29 dams in the Yarlung Tsangpo basin, the Brahmaputra Board in 1997 proposed 168 dams in the Brahmaputra basin.
 
 "Norms say both China and India have equal rights on the river. While the proportion of catchment area in China is more than that of India, its water contribution is less than India and moreover India has more population dependent on the river," the official said. 
 
