MUMBAI: An urge to go for a   in   cost a Japanese man his personal belongings worth Rs 80,000, including his travel documents and passport.   (58), who poses as a foreign tourist or guide and frequents tourist spots in South Mumbai, looking for foreigners to dupe, was arrested by   on Friday. 

 Police recovered almost the entire booty, including a digital camera, and Japanese and Indian currency from the accused. Hariom, who is from Delhi, converses in Japanese fluently and claims his son is employed in UK, police said.
 
 The  , who had come for a week’s tour, was at Gateway of India when the accused approached him on March 6.
 
 “The accused moved around tourist spots wearing a cap and sunglasses, with a camera, resembling a foreign tourist. He approached the victim claiming he was a tourist from Sri Lanka and was staying in a South Mumbai hotel,” said an officer. He claimed that as they both were new to the city, they could move around together. After visiting some places, he said he was tired and asked the Japanese if he was interested in a body massage at Marine Drive. They then took a cab from Gateway to Marine Lines station.
 
 “Hariom said he would first check the parlour and left the victim in the taxi. After few minutes, he returned saying that he liked it, and requested the victim to have a look,” added the officer. But when the victim entered the parlour, leaving behind his personal belongings, the accused fled in the taxi. 
 
 The tourist realised he was duped when he came out of the parlour. He immediately approached the Japanese consulate and lodged a complaint. With the help of the consulate, he lodged an FIR with the Colaba police. “Hariom had similarly duped two to three other Japanese nationals under the pretext of taking them to Siddhivinayak temple. He told the victim that bags, cameras and mobiles were not allowed inside for security reasons. When the victims entered the temple, he used to flee,” added officer. Colaba police, with the help of CCTV cameras, identified the accused. 
 
 Police have now printed an advisory in Japanese for tourists about such conmen.
 
