The director-actor duo,   and  , spent a month in Agra recently while shooting for their upcoming film,  , starring   and Aditi Rao Hydari. When we caught up with Omung and Shkehar, both had lots to share about Agra. While Shekhar revealed his “family connection” with the city, a wistful Omung admitted that he misses the old charm of the Taj when it used to be less crowded.

 
 
  Shekhar was nine or ten years old when he first visited the city with his uncle who used to work in a bank here. He shares, "I remember my uncle, who is now settled in the US, used to go to his office at 9 am sharp. After he would leave, I would take a rickshaw and go to some theatre to watch films. In Patna, where I lived, we were not allowed to watch movies and therefore whenever I came to Agra, I used the opportunity to live my passion – cinema." Then, Shekhar’s sister got married in Agra, and so the second time he came to the city was when he visited his sister’s sasural. Shekhar adds, "Agra is like home. My sister’s sasural is here and I had come to visit her many times."
 
  
  Shekhar Suman (Hemant Kumar/ BCCL)
 
  Omung Kumar reminisces the days when he visited Taj with his wife,  , long back. He says, "It was magical. It was raining the day I came and there was less crowd. We have also seen the Taj in the moonlight. It was so romantic. This is the real beauty of the city which I will also be showing in my film."
 
  
  Omung Kumar (Hemant Kumar/ BCCL)
 
 
 
 
  When asked why he chose Agra for the film’s backdrop, Omung tells us, "We wanted a city in UP as our film’s backdrop and Agra was our first choice. We have written the script keeping Agra in mind and all the characters that you will see in the film are a reflection of the city. Sanjay plays an owner of a shoe factory and Shekhar, a tourist guide."
  
  Shekhar is quite excited to play a tourist guide from Agra. He shares, "I am playing the character of Taj Kumar, a typical Agrawallah-tourist guide. For the role, I interacted with the city guides and tried to incorporate their mannerisms in my character. It is fun to play characters that are so colourful."
 
  
  
 
 
 
  The entire crew of the film went gaga over Agra’s food. While writer Raaj Shandilya went to Sadar Bazar to try aloo chaat, Omung found bedai worth dying for. He shares, "The food here is amazing and, of course, bedai is my favourite. Agra is always known for its pethas but it has lots of other dishes that people should explore. I spent more than two months in Agra for Bhoomi. The food and the city have embraced us and we loved it.” Shekhar was delighted with the new flavour of   he tried. He says, “One of my cousins brought me a box of petha that has a taste of kewda. It is less sweet than other pethas that I have tried. I loved this new flavour."
 
  
  
  
 
 
  Though the actor and director were mesmerized with the beauty of the Taj and the food the city offers, they were a little disheartened with the lack of priority given to the cleanliness of the city. Omung says, "I feel sad when I see the city, which has the monument of love, so unclean. There is kachra everywhere. I know the administration is trying its bit and with so much of footfall everyday, it is difficult to manage. But more efforts should be made to keep the city clean. I love this city and don’t want to show it in a bad light in my film. So before beginning the shoot, we cleaned the place on our own."
 
  Shekhar adds, "Though the state is developing, what with the expressway and other development projects, but the issue of cleanliness continues to plague Agra."
 
 -- 
 
 
 
