NEW DELHI: In the afternoon of September 11, 1803, an Anglo-Indian force commanded by General Lord Gerard Lake, the commander-in-chief of East India Company’s armies, engaged a Maratha host in what is today the trans-Yamuna region. At stake was the control of Delhi and Emperor  
 
  As the sun went down that day, it also set on the fortunes of the Marathas. It was the writ of Company Bahadur that would now run from the Mughal citadel to Mysore. At  , one can read about what had happened that afternoon at Patparganj.
  
  “We have a very detailed record of the Battle of Delhi and other records of Lord Lake. In fact, 1803 is the starting date of the records we have here,” said Sanjay Garg, the chief archivist at Delhi Archives.
  
  The victorious forces of   entered Delhi on September 14, 1803. The blind Emperor Shah Alam II was now at the mercy of the English, who, however, kept up the pretence of bowing to him in order to draw legitimacy from the House of Timur. They allowed him to issue firmans, sanads and parwanas. Some of these survive in the Delhi Archives. Pointing at one firman of Shah Alam II, Garg said, “You can see the royal seal here and the emperor’s signature there.”
  
  Also at the archives is the Urdu copy of the chargesheet against the last  , for sedition and waging war against the state. There also are the entire proceedings of his trial, all recorded by hand, along with the names and other details of the Salateen (members of the emperor’s family) who were tried, and who either died during trial or were executed after it.
  
 
  
  Back in 1989,   had front-paged an article that expressed concerns about the state of archives in various parts of India. It specifically mentioned the trial papers that had suffered some damage due to rainwater.
  
  “We have repaired all damage and the documents have been conserved very well. And now, these will be among the first papers to be digitised,” Garg said, showing the trial papers page by page.
  
  This hand-written copy of the trial is the only one of two surviving today, the other being in the UK. But historian Dr K C Yadav believes this is the original copy that was in the custody of  , who had organised the trial and who later became the chief commissioner of Delhi.
  
  As power was transferred to the Crown in 1858, the British brought Delhi Division under Punjab with a commissionerate of its own. The infrastructure for this new administrative setup had to be created and a new township called Civil Lines came up with major government buildings.
  
  Years later, the foundation of a new capital was laid and Delhi Archives has material showing how New Delhi became the city we know it today. “We have preserved photographs showing construction of these buildings and separate living quarters for Indian employees too, which were quite modest for their time,” Garg said.
  
  Garg said that thumbnails of all these images will be available online with information about them. For higher resolution images and for other papers, he said, users would have to pay a fee. The records of land acquisitions made and compensation paid for the new capital project have also survived. As we were going through them, two people came in, asking to be shown a property record.
  
  “Most of our visitors come for property records to settle legal disputes. We have them from 1870 onwards. But once these are digitised, people could consult these from the comfort of their homes,” Garg said.
  
  A striking aspect of the records of periods as late as the 1960s is the heavy use of Persian and Urdu. The official stamp of the Delhi Division also had Urdu in it, not Hindi. The past shows indeed a different country.
