NEW DELHI: Ending an eight-year-long manhunt, the special cell on Thursday managed to arrest Delhi's most wanted gangster   alias Satyapan from an undisclosed location. 

 DCP (special cell) Sanjeev Yadav confirmed the arrest to TOI. Dariyapur was wanted in a series of extortion cases apart from around half a dozen murders. Five of the killings including a triple murder committed five months ago is linked to his friend-turned-foes  .
 
 On April 29, Monu Dariyapur, his businessman friend and his personal security officer, an assistant sub-inspector, were shot dead in   in west Delhi, the cops had little to go on in their investigation except the enmity between the dead gangster and the man whose cousin he had married. 
 
 The special cell had earlier arrested the sharpshooters involved in the triple murder.
 
 Rajesh Rajje, one of Haryana's most wanted gangsters, and his aide Sonu Kejriwal were the key men involved in the gangland slaying. They were hired by Sonu Dariyapur, the prime suspect, to eliminate Monu Dariyapur. 
 
 Four others indicted for their role in last month's shooting were identified as Sumit Paluthra, Parneet Dabas, Sandeep and  .
 
 The Special Cell had been conducting raids in Uttarakhand, Rajasthan, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Goa apart from Delhi, Haryana, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh to man Dariyapur who has a reward of Rs 5 lakh on him.
 
 Sonu Dariyapur, has been absconding for the past 10 years. He was last arrested in 2007 and jumped parole subsequently.
 
 Informers had spotted him in Pune, Bahadurgarh and even in Delhi in the recent past but he has managed to evade arrest, a source said.
 
 "In 2007, Sonu carried a reward of Rs 25,000. He was wanted in a murder case of Punjabi Bagh. An attempt was made to eliminate Monu Dariyapur. Instead, his driver got killed. Sonu passed Class XII in 2000 from the school in his village. He then formed a gang after coming in touch with local musclemen. After the death of Sandeep alias   in an encounter, he became one of the top gangsters of his area," an officer recalled.
 
 In 2006, Monu had married Sonu's cousin. Following this, their relationship worsened and Sonu vowed to eliminate Monu. He had attacked Monu twice in the past. He killed Monu's driver and his brother in the second attempt.
 
