SHIMLA: Ahead of the   polls, Prime Minister   would lay the foundation stone of All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) at Kothipura in Bilaspur on October 3. In a statement released on Sunday, Union health minister J P Nadda confirmed PM Modi's presence on October 3. Thanking the PM for agreeing to lay the foundation stone of the premier national medical institute, Nadda said that   at Bilaspur would be another milestone achieved by the NDA government in the healthcare sector. 

 "AIIMS at Bilaspur, with its multiple disciplines, will herald the hilly state towards comprehensive development and growth," he added.
 
 Union finance minister Arun Jaitley in his budget speech of 2015-16 announced a medical institution just like AIIMS for the state. However, since then this has become a political issue as both the   and the   leaders are seen accusing each other for the delays in identifying the required land and in laying the foundation stone.
 
 BJP's Hamirpur MP Anurag Thakur wrote to chief minister Virbhadra Singh and Union health minister regarding AIIMS on August 23.
 
 In his letter, Thakur asked Virbhadra Singh about the status of the land for the project. He also requested Nadda, in a different letter, to use his office for inspection and finalization of land at Kothipura before August 31.
 
 As the project is coming up in his Hamirpur parliamentary constituency, Thakur said that the institute will prove to be a boon for the residents as they will be able to get world-class medical facilities and that too without having to travel outside the state. The BJP MP thanked Nadda for getting his office to act upon his request of inspection and finalization of land at Kothipura before August 31.
 
 While addressing a public meeting at Patlandhar in Hamirpur on September 3, Virbhadra Singh said that fate of AIIMS is undecided and he had requested the Nadda to pursue the matter as the state government has already provided enough land as per the requirement of Union ministry of health.
 
 State government identified and got transferred over 681 bighas of land in the name of health department on April 6 last year and informed the Union health ministry on April 24 about the same.
 
 It was on the request of Nadda that the state government could traced the land in Kothipura.
 
 State cabinet in its meeting held on December 26, 2014 had given its nod for establishing the premier health institution. 
 
