JAIPUR: Eager to improve its tally in the chief minister’s home district, state BJP on Wednesday welcomed the wife of former  , who stands convicted for murder, into the party.

 Shobharani, the wife of Kushwah, along with several of her supporters formally joined the ruling party at a public meeting in Dholpur, in the presence of state party president  . The public meeting had an impressive turnout; much to the delight of the BJP.
 
 Inducting her into the party is a move to win the Dholpur seat during the bypoll which has been forced following Kushwah’s conviction in a murder case. The date for the bypoll is yet to be announced.
 
 The former MLA was convicted and sentenced to life imprisonment in December 2016 for criminal conspiracy leading to the murder of one Naresh Kushwaha in 2012. Kushwah is one of the most popular leaders in the area and the BJP stood little chance to win the seat of Dholpur from where CM   hails.
 
 The ruling party has a poor presence in her home district, where of the four seats, BJP had won only one in the 2013 assembly polls. While Kushwah, as a candidate of BSP, had won from Dholpur, two seats – Bari and Rajakhera had gone to Congress. The BJP won only from Baseri in the district. 
 
 With Kushwah continuing to be a popular leader in the constituency, particularly among the  , the BJP now eyes a win here by inducting his wife. Though, there has not been any formal announcement yet, she is expected to be the ruling party’s candidate from Dholpur for the bypoll, likely to be held in April. With the induction of Shobharani, BJP has started its campaigning. 
 
 Though she has not been involved in politics actively prior to this, Shobharani has been associated with Khuswah’s businesses. She and Khuswah, are accused in a chit-fund fraud case filed against their company. When asked about the charges against her, Parnami said that they were mere accusations and nothing had been proved as yet.
 
 Welcoming her into the party, he said, “The BJP has always shared a good relationship with the Kushwah community and with Shobharani joining us today, we have further strengthened it.’’
 
