JAIPUR: Responding to the RSS-affiliate Muslim body   (MRM) petition that claims to have signatures of 1 million   against the practice of triple talaq, the   (AIMPLB) counter claimed that Muslims have lower rate of divorce than other religious communities including Hindus.

 The counterclaim was made during the inaugural day of the two-day workshop on challenges before Muslim women by the Women’s Wing of AIMPLB in Jaipur on Saturday. President of the women’s wing of AIMPLB, Dr   unveiled a report based on RTI, family courts, Darul Qaza (Shariat courts) and independent studies from 30 districts in the country to make the claim of Muslims having low divorce rate in the country.
 
 The Central government has challenged the validity of triple talaq in the   stating the practice to be against gender justice and spirit of the Constitution AIMPLB, contesting the case in favour of triple talaq, will submit the report in the court to counter the argument that Muslims have highest number of talaqs in the country due to the practice of triple talaq.
 
 Zohra elaborated the divorce data collected from a period between 2011 and 2016 of eight districts in the press conference held during the workshop. She said, “Kozhikode has 56.21% Hindus, Muslims, 39.24 per cent and Christians 4.26 per cent as per the Census of India 2011 report revealed in 2015. While the family court in Kozhikode says that number of dowry and divorce cases during 2011-2016 Hindu Marriage Act was 3,700, Christian Divorce Act was 398 and Muslim Marriage Act was 487.”
 
 Similarly, in Palakkad (Kerala) Muslims constitute about 28.91 percent while Hindus 66.76 percent. The RTI report says that divorce cases filed during same period says that cases under Hindu Marriage Act was 3,400 and Muslim Marriage Act was 129, says Zohra who appealed that divorce is a big social evil and all communities should come together to fight it.
 
 Convener and member of All India Muslim Personal Law Board, Yasmin Farooqui accused the central government of sponsoring a narrative that every second Muslim practices divorce, aiming to alienate them. “Our report demolished the central government's basic premise that Muslims have high rate of divorce. I demand the central government to collect the data on divorce nationally before attacking the most convenient way of talaq,” said Farooqui, who has served as a legal counsellor for 12 years in a family court.
 
 Why Muslim women are on the forefront of opposing triple talaq? To which she replied, “I would like to ask women who were divorced through triple talaq and challenged the practice that would they like to live again with the person again who divorced them?
 
 Quoting some examples, she said that divorce through legal process is time consuming and in some cases takes a decade. “If you spent years dissolving a marriage then chances of rehabilitating become almost difficult. Triple talaq is more protective and secure for women seeking divorce as it involves several rounds of negotiations. It is in the eye of the storm because it is related to Islam,” said Farooqui, who claimed that Muslims also have least number of separated couples which is worst form of any relationship.
 
