SHIMLA: During the last  , 8,500 cases of   were detected in  , and a compounding fee of Rs 4.50 crore imposed on them. Similarly, during 2015-16 financial year, 9,303 cases of illegal mining were detected, and a compounding fee to the tune of Rs 4.01 crore imposed on them. Senior officials from the Industries department said the government was committed to check illegal mining, and it has been made incumbent upon the departments concerned to file FIRs in case of damage to properties of Public Works Department, Irrigation and Public Health, and  , etc.

 They said a new Minor Mineral Rules had been notified to streamline the process of exploiting minor minerals, apart from providing deterrent penalties of prosecution and fine up to Rs50,000 for various violations. Officials said minor mineral sites were being auctioned in a transparent manner to meet the burgeoning demand of material like sand, stones, bajri etc, which is fetching handsome revenue to the state exchequer and also curbing illegal mining, as vulnerable sites will no more remain open or freehold, and susceptible to illegal mining. They said that to decentralize powers under the mining acts to take cognizance of illegal mining activities, the government had delegated powers to 39 officers of different categories of various departments like Revenue, HPPWD, Irrigation and Public Health, Industries, BDOs, RTOs etc.
 
 It is also incumbent upon these departments to lodge FIR against offenders, causing damage to their properties. A sub-divisional level flying squad has also been constituted under the chairmanship of the SDM concerned, having a DSP and and ACF as its members to conduct raids against illegal mining, they added. To bring accountability, and to exercise greater control on illegal mining, the department of Industries has evolved an inspection and reporting system in a hierarchical order, wherein every officer of the department will have to undertake inspections of crusher and leases on mandated frequency, and report to his immediate superior about the action taken by him in the field against illegal mining.
 
 All the deputy commissioners have also been asked to convene monthly meetings of all the duty holders to review the action taken by them against illegal mining. They have also been asked to constitute the committees of HPPWD, Revenue, and  , since most of the routes leading to the river beds have been carved out illegally on forest land of the government, and the minerals so extracted are being stacked on the acquired width of the PWD roads. The deputy commissioner will also ensure through surprise inspections that no diesel generated sets are used illegally by crusher owners.
 
