LUCKNOW: Three out of five mothers in the state could be starving their babies because 60% mothers in UP do not   them exclusively for the recommended six months. The startling fact, which relates to over 33 lakh newborns every year, came to the fore ahead of the world breastfeeding week that begins on Tuesday.

 The fact has been noted in the recently released fourth edition of the National Family Health Survey ( ) which shows that only 41% babies in the state were breastfed exclusively for six weeks. Practice of babies feeding on mother’s milk has declined by 10% since NFHS-3.
 
 The trend of not feeding babies mother’s milk was found to be more common in urban areas than rural. Only 35% of urban moms breastfeed their babies for the stipulated time, against 43% mothers in villages. Moreover, the mandatory first-hour initiation to mother’s milk was not followed by 75% mothers.
 
 Health activist, gynaecologist Dr Neelam Singh said cry of a baby is the first sign of hunger. “Children cry when they feel hungry but that is often ignored by mothers in urban and rural areas alike,” said Singh.
 
 
  
 
 The early life starvation is an outcome of a number of myths, said health officials. “Mindset barriers of different types deprive babies of their fill,” admitted Alok Kumar, mission director,  , which has planned a number of activities to spread awareness about the cause over the week under Union health ministry’s special programme MAA (Mother’s Absolute Affection).
 
 The United Nation’s Children Fund (UNICEF) listed some of the myths prevailing in UP. One of them is that the baby must be breastfed in an auspicious period. In many places, a pundit is consulted to announce a ‘mahurat’ (an auspicious time) to initiate the baby mother’s milk. Sometimes, it also involves feeding the baby on cow or goat milk, honey or plain water till the auspicious time arrives. In some places, the baby’s bua (paternal aunt) initiates the baby to mother’s milk. The starvation takes its toll on the baby’s health and shows up on mental and physical growth.
 
 “A baby breastfed during the first hour of birth is 14 times more likely to survive than those who aren’t,” said Dr Sanjay Niranjan, a member of the  , UP.
 
 “Mother’s milk lays the foundation of good health as it contains life-saving antibodies and growth promoters, which nothing else can substitute,” said Dr Vishwajit Kumar, founder of social organisation Community Empowerment Lab that works in neonatal and maternal health challenges. 
 
 Recent research by   shows stunted growth and remaining underweight were syndromes related to exclusive breastfeeding.
 
 “It protects against diarrhoea and common childhood illnesses such as pneumonia and may also yield long-term health benefits for mother and child, such as reducing risk of overweight and obesity in childhood and adolescence. Breastfeeding has also been associated with higher intelligence quotient (IQ) in children,” said WHO document on breastfeeding.
 
 
