Karwar: The eviction of Kannadigas from Baina beach in Goa is a more complicated problem as it is the result of the unholy nexus of politicians, builders, police, the apathy of major political parties and successive governments in Karnataka towards the issue.

 “Our media and politicians are more concerned about the Rohingya problem than that of Kannadigas becoming refugees in their own country,” said Mohammad Shafi, 24, a Kannadiga. “My father migrated here from rural Bengaluru about 35 years ago in search of employment. I studied here and found a petty job. Even after that we are treated as second grade citizens. Locals always taunt as ‘Ghati’ (roughly means uncivilized person in Konkani). We speak better Konkani but are still unwanted here. This is not the case with people who have migrated here from Maharashtra or North India,” he fumed.
 
 Mahantesh from Ranebennur said that on September 28, the authorities had issued notice to 52 house owners to vacate the place. “We were staying on church property and a builder, who is the son-in-law of a former Congress minister, bought it from the church a year ago. We approached court and the matter is still sub-judice. But government machinery is used to help the builder and our houses were vacated. Police entered the temples of Basaveshwara and Mahalakshmi with shoes on, and nobody is allowed in the sanctum sanctorum. Idols were thrown away when Navaratri was in progress. How can a BJP government help a Congress builder in this illegal manner,” he asked.
 
 Venus Habib, vice-president of the Republican Party of India’s (RIP) Goa unit, alleged that while the demolition was carried out, neither the collector nor deputy collector or any magistrate was at the spot. The entire operation was carried out by the city corporation and police. “Who gave them the right to evict people from private land by using force, without giving notice to house owners?” she asked, and alleged that during talks between representatives of the Karnataka and Goa governments two years ago, it was agreed that those displaced would be rehabilitated.
 
 PM Modi says everybody will get a roof by 2022 and here, his own party government is turning people into refugees, Habib said. “The Karnataka government is ready to buy land in Goa and build houses for these families. We were told that paper work was in progress, but now I heard that the files are missing from the department concerned. Some of the government departments in Goa are very corrupt and always support the rich,” she alleged.
 
 Ratna Kshatri alleged that whenever Manohar Parikkar assumes power, he carries out an anti-Kannadiga drive. “During the last assembly elections, BJP and Congress leaders from Karnataka had visited the area and assured us of pucca houses. Where are they now? We have stayed here for three generations. We cannot go back to Karnataka,” she added.
 
 The media in Goa has totally neglected our problem. So we request the media in Karnataka to highlight the problem. Let the national media discuss the issue and give justice to 500 families, said Hanumant Hulageri, a youth who lost his house.
 
 (Displaced people at Baina beach.
 
 The houses being demolished on September 28
 
 People displaying their ID proofs) 
 
 
