Nagpur: RST Regional Cancer Hospital, and Shri Ayurveda Mahavidyalaya (SAM) are exploring the possibility of treating chemotherapy’s side effects using ayurveda. The two have entered into a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) to perform research on herbs to treat toxicity caused by conventional chemotherapy. The move is bringing hope to many, who have been turning to ayurveda as an alternative treatment. In the first move, RST on Saturday sensitized ayurveda students regarding cancer diagnosis and treatment, and their potential to play a big role in this regard. A CME was held in collaboration with National Integrated Medical Association (NIMA), and SAM, on Friday at RCH premises for over 250 students from Ayurveda College. During the inaugural ceremony, Cancer Relief Society (CRS) joint secretary Dr Ramkrishna Chhangani, RST joint secretary Dr BK Sharma, NIMA president Dr Nitin Warghane, NIMA secretary Dr Shailesh Manekar, SAM dean Dr Mohan Yeole, and NIMA project director Dr Jay Chhangani were present on the dais. Talking to TOI, Dr Ramkrisha Chhangani said, “Due to the inadequacy of most radio-protectors and chemo-protectors in controlling side effects of conventional cancer therapy, alternative medicines have attracted the attention of researchers and medical practitioners recently.” Chhangani said the research will be focused on four corners — radio-sensitizers, drugs acting on side effects of radiotherapy and chemotherapy, ayurvedic drugs having cytotoxic effect, and improving the general condition of a cancer patient. Sharma told TOI, “Chemotherapy drugs and radiotherapy are highly toxic and both damage adjacent healthy cells. Usually, post-chemo side effects include chemotherapy nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea, alopecia, constipation.” He said, “These arrays of side effects have a devastating effect on the quality of life of cancer survivors. Such side effects also put a hold on the therapy due to adjacent infections.” Gynaecology oncologist Dr Sarita Kothari spoke on importance of vaccination for prevention cervical cancer, the most common cancer in females. Consultant onco-surgeon Dr Prasanna Joshi described various methods of early detection along with self-breast examination techniques, latest diagnostic modalities, and treatment available for breast cancer, which is the most common cancer in females. Radiation oncologist Dr Prashant Dhoke spoke of new methods of treating various types of cancer by radiation using latest machines such as Linear Accelerator, Bhabhatron and Cobalt. RST medical superintendent Dr DP Sengupta, who conducted the program, spoke about the treatment facilities at RST and various government schemes to help poor patients.