KOLKATA: From recruiting volunteers to   to setting up termporary sheds, several organizations — and even local clubs — walk the extra mile to ensure anxious teens face no trouble during their  . But when it comes to political parties, it seems, examinees are nowhere in their scheme of things. With back-to-back rallies lined up over the next couple of days, hundreds of students will learn this the hard way. 

 “The political parties should be more sensitive before organizing rallies during the exam season. This is a very crucial time for an examinee,” said Meena Kak, principal of Laxmipath Singhania Academy. Baranagar Modern School principal Nabarun De echoed: “It is a difficult for examinees if they are caught in traffic chaos caused due to political rallies. We, therefore, urge them to keep tabs on such disruptions.”
 
 As always, it has been a staple refrain from the political parties in defence of rallies. They justified that the processions were planned since HS exams concluded on Tuesday. But students taking commercial law exam and preliminaries in auditing, philosophy and sociology papers in the HS were scheduled on Wednesday. Similarly, CBSE Class XII examinations will conclude on March 31 and ICSE examinations will continue till mid-April.
 
 On Wednesday, the Left Front   started at 6pm, long after the exams and the schools got over. More than the students, the office-goers felt the heat. The protestors led by Left chairman Biman Basu and CPM state secretary Surya Kanta Mishra demanded the arrest – and resignation – of Trinamool leaders indicted in the Narada tape. 
 
 Left Front legislative party leader  , who took part in a 9000-strong rally, argued, “If you see closely we have not disturbed the students. The HS exam ended on Tuesday. The rally dates were arranged accordingly. The first rally was on March 21, the day Supreme Court gave the verdict. That was a natural outburst but after that we have tried to arrange dates so that students don’t face any trouble.”
 
 Examinees, however, may not be as lucky over the next couple of days. Take for example, Thursday. There will be Trinamool rally that will start off from College Square and pass through Nirmal Chandra Street, Rafi Ahmed Kidwai Road and SN Banerjee Road to terminate at Esplanade. The rally starts at 12 noon. Calcutta Girls School is an ICSE examination centre. The exam will starts at 11am and end at 1pm. Though the school authority refused to comment, a teacher, requesting anonymity, only expressed their helplessness.
 
 Former law minister Chandrima Bhattacharya, who will lead the Trinamool rally on Thursday, said, “We oppose political movements during examinations. The HS exams have ended on Tuesday and the rallies have been planned accordingly. The rallies are important because people should have the democratic right to express themselves. There are some exams but we have chosen a time when the students will reach their schools. The rally will end before the exam gets over and the students will not suffer. Trinamool Congress is a party that has always tried to be accommodative.”
 
 BJP state president Dilip Ghosh argued, “Rallies should be avoided during the exam season. Moreover, what purpose do they serve? Before embarking on the rallies, Trinamool can look back at what they did in the aftermath of the CBI arrests in the Rose Valley case. They held road-chocking rallies. But did it stop the law from taking its own course.”
 
 Bhattacharya countered, “Our primary demand is against the step-motherly economic policy of the BJP government. On the Narada tape leaks, we want investigation and arrest of all the political leaders of Congress, BJP and CPM who had conspired it.”
 
 
