PUNE: After winning people’s hearts with their performance in the  , its lead pair Akash Thosar and Rinku Rajguru are set to join forces again. This time to encourage youths to vote in the upcoming elections.

 Akash and Rinku, who played Archi and Parshya in the film, have been appointed brand ambassadors by the   (ECI). Their pictures would be seen on banners across the state, spreading the message to vote in the upcoming elections.
 
 The state has fallen behind in youth voter enrolment and voting with only 1.1% of the total 3% youth population participating in the process in the state. This prompted the ECI to instruct the state to focus on “empowerment of youth and future youth voters”. 
 
 Thereafter, the ECI approached director Nagraj Manjule’s team who agreed to make the duo the brand ambassadors, Shirish Mohod, deputy chief electoral officer, Maharashtra, told TOI. Akash will be the brand ambassador as a voter, while Rinku will represent the future voters, election officials said. 
 
 However, as much as the ECI wanted the duo to shoot for this assignment, they were too busy with their respective shoots and other assignments. So, the ECI had to make do with the photos of the actors for the banners ahead of January 25 that is celebrated as the National Voters’ Day.
 
 The state presently has 8.34 crore voters, of which 12.16 lakh are registered under youth category. While the election officials said the number has bettered over the years, there is still a long way to go. The target for this year is future voters in the age group of 15-17 years who the ECI wants to make aware of the election process. The second age group of 18-20 years are the actual voters. 
 
 “With 10 municipal corporations and 25 zilla parishads going for elections, the banners, posters and hand outs will be used for these elections as well,” the officials said.
 
 “Both the celebrities will treat it as an honour and will not be paid for this,” an official from the chief electoral office of the state said.
 
