PUNE: A special court for Protection of Children from Sexual Offences ( ) Act has convicted and sentenced a 21-year-old youth to three years of rigorous imprisonment for outraging the modesty and sexually harassing a five-year-old girl in Chikhali, under the Nigdi police station on September 21, 2015. 

 In a judgment on Tuesday, special judge Dilip G Murumkar found the accused, Prakash alias Bhavadya Mama Govardhan Jogdand, guilty of the offence punishable under Section 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 7 of the POCSO Act, which deals with the offence of sexual harassment.
 
 The court sentenced Jogdand to three years in jail for the POCSO offence and one year for the IPC offence. Both these sentences are to run concurrently. Soon after the sentencing, the convict moved a plea for suspension of the order to enable him move in an appeal in the Bombay high court. The judge allowed the plea by suspending the sentence on the convict furnishing a Rs 15,000 personal release bond and one surety in the like amount. 
 
 According to the case put up by additional public prosecutor P S Agarwal, the girl residing in the neighbourhood of the accused and was familiar to him as she would call him mama (uncle) and would frequent his house along with her brother for playing. Around 2pm on September 21, 2015, the girl went to Jogdand’s house after informing her mother but, returned around 2.40pm crying and told her mother that the accused stripped her and tried to molest her. 
 
 The mother soon called her husband, who was at work, and the family then approached the Nigdi police for lodging an FIR. The accused was arrested and police sub-inspector Pranita D Pawar investigated the case and filed a chargesheet. Prosecutor Agarwal examined the girl’s mother, the girl herself and the investigating officer during the case trial while the accused had taken a defence that he was falsely implicated in the case on mere inference. 
 
 The court relied on the steady evidence provided by the girl besides the evidence by her mother that corroborated the charge and observed that the evidence by the   girl was not shaken in the cross examination. The prosecution has proved the case against the accused, the court ruled. 
 
 
