A   in Mumbra has barred its residents from selling or   to  , taking the extraordinary step of installing a message board that seeks to affirm the  

 Shiv Darshan Apartment’s decision has reignited the debate on housing restrictions that target only non-vegetarians, and it comes amid worrying reports about cow vigilantes in the country. 
 
 While apartment buildings in many areas in Mumbai have secretly or openly imposed such bans, the message board displayed at Shiv Darshan has created a stir because Mumbra has a large Muslim population.
 
 The eight-storey building was constructed 35 years ago and has modest flats. The vegetarians-only policy, introduced a few years ago, has become a major irritant for 40-year-old Geeta Muley, who wants to sell her one-roomkitchen home on the second floor.
 
 “My son is enrolled in a Vashi college and to make commuting easier for him, we decided to shift to Kalyanphata. The moment my husband and I started looking for a buyer, we were told that only vegetarians will be allowed to stay here.”
 
 The instruction baffled the family because the previous owner of the house ate meat. “Many people who consume non-vegetarian food reside in the society. They have never been asked to change their preferences or move out,” she claimed without giving specific names.
 
 Muley works as a computer operator, while her husband runs a garment store. The message board put up on a wall near the entrance of Shiv Darshan has put off many potential buyers. “Mumbra has a large Muslim population and most of the people interested in our house are Muslims. How do we sell the house with that board near the entrance?” Muley asked. “It has been two months, but we have been unable to strike a deal.”
 
 She alleged that two keen buyers were prevented from entering the premises and were asked to never visit the society again.
 
 Shiv Darshan doesn’t have a formal society committee. Its developer, Thane-based political leader Bhola Patil, said the board was installed a couple of years ago. “This was a decision by society members. Putting up such a board or imposing a blanket ban (on non-vegetarians) is not right and I have asked the members to take it down,” he said.
 
 The Muley family, Patil added, knew about the vegetarians-only policy, when they bought the house five years ago. “This [the rule] is not new. Why are they making an issue now?” he said.
 
 Muley claimed she was not aware of the rule. “Legally, I am allowed to sell the house to whoever I wish. That’s the only rule I know and agree with,” she said.
 
 A resident who supports the restrictions said the society had the right to frame rules. “Shiv Darshan is a Hindu community and we follow a certain way of living. We don’t want people to cook or consume meat here. These are our rules,” he said.
 
 In September last year, a housing society in Vasai allegedly prevented a Muslim family from buying a flat there. The row was resolved following the police’s intervention.
 
