MUMBAI: The finances of the   appear to be in dire straits. In 17 months since November 2015, it has been forced to prematurely withdraw fixed deposits worth Rs 111 crore to pay its staff. 

  Its general fund is now a paltry Rs 20 lakh, the lowest in recent memory, shows data received through  . The surplus budget presented recently seems a farce since it has been based on anticipatory figures. 
 
  The squeeze has tightened as the state government, which owes the university Rs 240 crore, has not been paying the salary grant. MU's monthly salary expense for over 2,500 employees is Rs 6-7 crore. There is also pension to be accounted for. 
 
 Information sought on the university's fixed deposits and their withdrawal showed that almost Rs 110.9 crore was encashed prematurely between November 2015 and April 2017. The amount generated an interest of Rs 3.6 crore, which could have been four times had the FDs been allowed to mature on their due dates.
 
 In all, 100 FDs were prematurely broken in 22 months from July 2015 to May 2017.
 
 "The university, as part of its financial planning, keeps its reserve funds in FDs only and breaks them whenever required. We receive only 75% advance payment for 1,000 employees. That too we have not received from the government since April 1," said registrar M A Khan.
 
 University insiders are not surprised by the financial mess. The practice of encashing deposits has been the only option for vice chancellors since 1998 as the state government has refused to pay the salary for thousands of non-teaching staff members. Each new pay commission has only added to the university's burden.
 
 Moreover, seven major construction works being handled by the university are nearing completion and hence need extra funds, said Khan. The projects are the new library building, the international hostel, and the new examination building, all at Kalina, the Kalyan sub-centre, Ambadve Model College building, Tarale Model College building, and a girl's college hostel at Nariman Point.
 
 Khan added that computerization of several administrative processes is on to bring transparency. "These issues are demanding more money, hence expenses are being made time to time following due process," he said.
 
 The highest amount encashed by prematurely withdrawing an FD was Rs 6.6 crore with the Bank of Baroda, which earned an interest of Rs 14.7 lakh. All the 100 deposits prematurely withdrawn were for a term of one year each, the university said.
 
 "On September 29, 2016, 17 FDs were prematurely encashed, on September 14, 26 FDs, on September 7, 21 FDs and September 30, 6 FDs were encashed before their due date. In September 2016 alone, 71 FDs were prematurely encashed," said RTI activist Anil Galgali who sought this information.
 
 
