NEW DELHI: We all know by now about PM  's work habits. That is, he reportedly works 18-plus hours a day, 
  rather than hotels during long-haul flights abroad so he can "save time" and keeps his ministers from their full quota of beauty sleep too. 

 That speaks for his stamina. But what explains his drive? The man himself tweeted the answer to that earlier this week, when a citizen tagged him on her tweet about "work stress".
 
  
  
 
 The citizen listed all his engagements from the day he was scheduled to meet with Australian PM   earlier this week. The PM's day began with an early meeting with   chief minister  . His day was chock-full with public engagements that ended a little after midnight, after a dinner meeting with his party's NDA partners.
 
  It's no wonder the citizen commented: "While we are busy cribbing about our work stress, just have a look our PM @narendramodi 's schedule which is just another day for him!"
 
  
  
 
 In a video interview in 2012, before he became Prime Minister, Modi as much as admitted he's become a "workaholic" over the years.
 
 "Doctors tell me I need to sleep for 5 hours but I sleep for maximum 3-4 hours. Yet, I get a very sound sleep," Modi said at the time.
 
 
 
 
 "I am equally energetic from morning till night. I guess the secret behind it is Yoga and Pranayama, which I do daily. Whenever I feel tired, I just practice deep breathing and that refreshes me again," he said in 2012.
 
 If anything, the PM's daily schedule would only have gotten busier since then, after he became Prime Minister in 2014.
 
 Union minister   talked about the PM's CEO-like work habits in 2014.
 
 "I was saying in the morning our Prime Minister does not sleep and does not allow others to sleep," Naidu said at an event in Hyderabad, reported PTI.
 
 Naidu, too, gets his drive from the same thing that the PM does, he said at the time.
 
 "But (till) we are enjoying. Because working for the people...working for the betterment of life of the common man is the most enjoyable thing in life," said Naidu.
 
 
 
 
