AGRA: Even as UP minister and   admitted   in the  , Vikas Agarwal and his associate, Megh Agarwal on Monday night during a robbery, four more murders were reported from the district in the last 24 hours. 

 As Sharma faced the wrath of the family members of the murdered jeweller during his visit to their house, traders and residents complained about the deteriorating   situation in the district.
 
 Though Sharma admitted that negligence was evident on the part of the police in Vikas's murder, four more murders, two under the highway police station area and one each in Govardhan and Raya, in the past 24 hours added to the problems of the police.
 
 During his interaction with the family, Sharma had a tough time trying to pacify them, as all the people gathered there blamed the government for its failure to protect the people. "You have been in power for two months, tell us what have you done for the people who voted for you", said an angry relative of the deceased.
 
 Blaming the BJP government for the poor law and order situation, mourners said such incidents never used to happen in Mathura. "Why only the common people die while politicians live a safe life", they said.
 
 Saying that people had enough of lip sympathy from leaders, relatives of the deceased termed Sharma's visit a "photo op", which he, like other politicians would forget soon. 
 
 They also castigated the police for being "clueless" of the people behind the brutal crime even after three days of the incident.
 
 DGP, Sulkhan Singh, who was also present assured the family that strict action would be taken against those cops who were found to be negligent. He also said that the culprits behind the crime would be arrested soon.
 
 He said the police would go all out to restore the confidence of the people, which admitted had been shaken by this incident. He assured the people that there was nothing to be scared of.
 After suspension of three police officials on Tuesday, Kotwali SHO Surendra Pal Singh was suspended on Wednesday while the SSP sent a letter to the DGP recommending disciplinary action against Holi Gate circle officer Jagdish Singh. 
 
 Later while speaking to media, Sharma said that he came to Mathura as a representative of the CM and his main concern was to make the Braj region crime-free. He said more CCTV cameras would be installed and security increased, wherever required.
 
 Meanwhile, Dinesh Kumar, a worker in Saree factory was found dead at industrial area and a country made gun was found near his body. Another youth, Puran Singh was killed in arooki village in firing between two parties.
 
 In Govardhan area, 21 year old Vishnu Singh's body was found near chattikara road. Police said that prima facie it seems that some heavy object was hit on his head. In Mant area, Saurav Kumar was killed due to some rivalry over Village Pradhan elections. 
 
 Talking to TOI, former mathura MLA, Pradeep Mathur said that chief minister Yogi Aditynath should stop preaching like a saint and should become a good administrator to control crime.
 
 Samajwadi party agra incharge, Vipul Purohit said that these incidents are an evidence of the deteriorating law and order situation in the state. He claimed that the state's crime graph had spiralled ever since the BJP government took over.
 
