CHENNAI: In the absence of qualified behaviour analysts, the Greater Chennai Corporation has asked teachers in its schools to perform the task of profiling and counselling academically weak students alongside their teaching routines. Though teachers say this process would be handled better by professionals, many have embraced the added responsibility. 

 A couple of years ago, the corporation had appointed   to interact with students in its schools. These counsellors would study the behaviour patterns of students and submit reports to the deputy commissioner (education). This information was used to counsel and help the student to "focus his/her energy", as one corporation source put it, towards scoring marks and building a career.
 
 The candidates were mostly those who had been considered   According to officials, such candidates had an unstable family atmosphere which was the reason for behavioural conflicts.
 
 However, the project lost steam due to an administrative shuffle in the education department which meant that there was no follow-up. "The counsellors were irregular. The number of people appointed for the work too was not proportional to the number of students they wanted profiled," said a school headmaster, requesting anonymity. "On many occasions, they could not respond to our calls. The sessions were few and far between and it really did not make a difference to how the student behaved in class," he added.
 
 The 'Challengers' initiative launched recently by corporation schools has aided teachers in their counselling duties. As reported by TOI, the concept involved providing more one-to-one coaching time with teachers for academically weak students. As this facilitated closer interactions with teachers, students have "opened up" about their issues, said teachers.
 
 Take the case of P Dhanasekar, a Class X student who suffers from seizures that has affected his learning capabilities.  , his teacher at the Sharma Nagar corporation high school in Vyasarpadi, told TOI that erasing the teacher-student boundary helped her get through to him.
 
 "I share my lunch with him. I talk to him as a person invested in his problems. This made it easier for him to interact with me," she said, adding that such proximity would help teachers understand and adapt to handling children with learning disabilities better.
 
 Then there are boys like R Pradeep Raj, an effervescent class X student at the TH Road higher secondary school, whose first reaction when angry is to write a letter to his headmaster informing of his intent to "quit education", though he always returns to class after spending a few minutes outside the school premises.
 
 "We don't see these as tantrums. We are patient because there is a child's future at stake," said his teacher Devaselvi.
 
 
