 Hi, I am a 24-year-old male. I was in a relationship with my colleague for almost 4 years, but we recently got separated around 1 month back since we had trust issues between us. The breakup was completely mutual. Now, I am in a relationship with another girl and it is going well for both of us, the only problem being the fact that my ex- girlfriend wants me to be good friends with her, but I am not able to do that. I want her to be happy and feel that if I talk to her then she will be stuck with me for lifetime and that will affect her life. Also, my present girlfriend is very possessive about me. Please suggest me what should i do now? - 
 

 
  It’s fairly common for people to be confused about maintaining contact with former romantic partners. Whether it is bad for the new relationship, will your   partner be able to move on and will it confuse your current partner are some of the most common questions that people struggle with.
 
 Friendship and common interest usually precede a romantic relationship. Over a period if that romance doesn’t last, some people are able to remain friends. It seems natural to communicate with an ex partner because there is still some friendship and connection that grew with a lot of investment in the relationship over the 4 year you were together.
 
 As with all things in love, each situation is individual, It’s never cut-and-dry in today’s social media-centric world where staying in touch with an ex partner is a lot easier and messier, especially since you work together. The answer isn’t a simple yes or no. If you are able to value and preserve the friendship - as you work in the same company, over 4 years you may have mutual friends, and if you were friends before your romantic relationship, research proves it is possible to go back to being friends again. 
 
 The caveat is you may have trouble keeping things platonic if there are still some residual emotions. If you feel any emotion when you think of your ex partner, then you have some baggage you need to unpack before you think about being friends. 
 
 If you feel your former partner is not yet over the relationship, any emotional connect or support can send a confusing message, giving false hope or preventing her from moving on. She needs to take her space and time to feel independent from you, not dependent on you. Knowing that you are still in touch with an ex partner can certainly create jealousy for your current partner. Given your current partner is possessive, if you may need to hide this friendship, it definitely is a bad sign. On the other hand if you are able to balance your friendship with your current relationship without making them feel insecure, it could make your current partner more accepting and understanding of this friendship. 
 
 It is most important to understand your own motive behind why you would keep in touch. You may want to stay friends because it is an easier option than cutting ties abruptly or if the breakup was more amicable and positively handled such as your case. The only motive for interacting with an ex that can create problems in the current relationship is thinking of the ex as a backup partner. Keeping your options open and a handy back-up plan makes you less committed to your current relationship and, decreases satisfaction with your current partner over time. 
 
 Thus it depends on how open, honest and accepting are all the three individuals involved – you, ex partner and current partner. So long as all your intent is clear and you are all able to maintain healthy boundaries and can openly discuss it, friendship with the former partner is possible and it could perhaps indicate good social adjustment among all parties. Relationships require respect, boundaries, as well as communication. As long as you maintain each of those, there won't be an issue.
 
 
 
 Want expert advice for your relationship? Send us an email at expertadvice.toi@gmail.com
  
 
