Baahubali: The Conclusion, the second and final part to SS Rajamouli’s magnum opus, released on Friday. The film might have created records at the box office, but it also is a game changer as it is in many ways the first ‘Indian’ hit film, with people across the nation talking about the film and its characters alike. Here’s capturing the frenzy.
17 shows in a day in  
 South Indian centres are known to have maximum shows of big ticket films on the first day. This time around, a cinema hall in Kerala had as many as 17 shows in a single day. Since multiplexes had no shows till evening, the hoity toity crowd of Kerala went to the single screens to watch the film, unable to keep their patience in check.
 One kilometre-long queues in AP, Telangana
 Videos of queues that extend in kilometres just to get one ticket to watch the film on the first day in   and Telangana went viral. 
 IT’s a holiday!
 IT offices in  , especially Bengaluru, Chennai and Hyderabad, had minimal staff on Friday, with everyone wanting to watch the film ‘first day first show’. 
 Ticket price memes
 Many metroplitan cities had extremely high priced tickets, which even crossed ` 1,000. This had people creating memes that compared different things they could buy for the same amount.
 Popular in 
 Northeast too
 Not too often do South Indian films get takers in theatres in Northeast India. But places in Assam had people thronging to watch why   killed   on the first day, a record of sorts. 
 Breaking the law, early morning
 Cities like Bengaluru have laws against early morning shows. But single screen theatre owners ensured they had early morning shows starting as early as 4 am to accommodate fans.
 #SayNoToBaahubali
 Directors in the Kannada film industry went on social media with videos asking local fans to support their films that were losing screens to the big players. These led to fans creating hashtags like #SayNoToBaahubali, despite the screens going full in Karnataka.
 Mumbai police gets inspired
 The Mumbai police Twitter handle had an interesting tweet asking the people to follow traffic rules with a Baahubali-related tweet. They even created a hashtag saying #BahubaliOfTrafficDiscipline. 
 A fashion statement
 Forwards of a private sari   creating saris with the pallus sporting pictures of Baahubali, Devasena, Bhallaladeva and Kattappa became popular, piquing the curiosity of film buffs.
 
 
 
 
