MUMBAI: Till a month ago whenever   resident Hemant Lokhande's parents returned from Pune by train, he had to go pick them up despite they being accompanied by a help. Reason: The chaos outside the station that made engaging a taxi a herculean task.

 However, now, Lokhande, a businessman, can breathe easy as the traffic police, with help from locals, have ended the traffic chaos on  . “Earlier, there was always a snarl in front of the station near Swami Narayan temple; add to it cabbies refusing fares, no space to park cars or keep luggage. But now, the traffic police has put the place in order and it is much easier to hire a taxi,“ said Lokhande.
 
 Sandeep Bangera, a passenger who arrived from Lucknow in   on Saturday evening, said, “It was an uphill task to get a taxi from outside   station. They would refuse short-distance fares but today I stood in a queue and without asking me my destination, the driver picked up my lugga ge and started the meter,“ said Bangera.
 
 The decongestion was done after traffic police and locals who brought the issue to the notice of police commissioner Dattatray Padsalgikar. The poli ce chief then assigned deputy commissioner of police Saurabh Tripathi to resolve the problem. After getting orders, officers from the Matunga traffic police, led by senior inspector Subhash Nikam, immediately chalked out a plan. “Several vehicles, particularly taxis, were illegally parked and passengers had to jostle for space. There was no place where vehicles could drop or pick up passengers. A circular buffer has been created by putting up plastic dividers to streamline traffic,“ said Nikam.
 
 Also, the lane towards Parel Market has been made one-way. Inspector Bhagwant Gunjal, incharge of the project, said volunteers are at the spot round the clock and keep vigil. “ A meeting was held with porters and cabbies and they were sensitized. Now, cabbies who refuse fares are fined,“ said Gunjal. A local said, “The police should now maintain the discipline at the junction.“
 
