A foreign degree today is not a far-fetched dream for city youngsters. With aspirational levels of students getting high, moving overseas for pursuing higher education has become a dream of many.

 Whereas at one time students would only go abroad for job prospects or post-graduate degree, these days even Std X and and Std XII pass-outs are attracted towards moving out of the country. This and the increasing youth population in the city have led to mushrooming of many consultation agencies for overseas education in the recent years.
 
 With metros having reached a point of saturation, many agencies are now focusing on expanding in two-tier cities. Old game-players in the market however feel that most of them are boomeranging. 
 
 Said Pankaj Agrawal, co-founder of Krishna Consultants which is in the city since about last 19 years, “As Nagpur is centrally located and has now developed a cosmopolitan culture, many consultancies of metros are opening up their franchises here. But the new players are struggling as cost of running the operations is quite high and the market here is not like Punjab or Gujarat where every other student is crazy after going overseas.”
 
 So when did the city start seeing this shift in academic culture? According to past masters, the trend took pace post 1995. “In the early phase, a lot of travel agents thought they could facilitate overseas education. But hey failed as this is a different cup of tea all together,” said Vijay Naidu, higher education consultant and director of Exnet International.
 
 “The internet boom also increased communication channels drastically and foreign universities no longer remained out of reach. It wasn’t an overnight change but now every year there is 8 – 12% rise in the number of students going abroad,” said Agrawal. 
 
 Though consultancies claim witnessing 30-40 % increase in the number of students heading abroad, the response in Nagpur is still low when compared to bigger cities. Ashish Motwani, branch head of Valmiki Foreign Education Services, said the city has a progressive young crowd but awareness is still missing. 
 
 “Our head branch is in Hyderabad and we started here about ten months back. Whereas in Hyderabad every fifth student wants to go abroad, the trend is not the same in Nagpur. Students still don’t know much about benefits and scope of studying in international universities. But the change is slowly coming and we are hopeful that the numbers will increase,” he added.
 
 With growing competition, consultancies are not just focusing on getting students admitted in the university but also preparing them for the cultural change they will face. “For instance if a student is going to Europe, we present a package costing around a lakh in which we begin with passport and visa formalities and then proceed towards providing coaching entrances like IELTS, TOEFL and GRE. In case of students’ loan, we help them with the documentation. But the most important part is pre-departure counseling adjusting in an alien country,” said Ajay Verma, founder of AUPP education. He added that counselling of parents too is a part of the deal.
 
 Significant change in perception not just touched youngsters but kin too. There was a time when only financial well-off families would think about sending their kids overseas, now it is the middle class families that make up the biggest clientele of consultancies. “There has been an immense change in the mindset of parents. Earlier, conservative families would even hesitate sending their daughters out of the city for higher education. But now they themselves are pushing their daughters to keep aside marriage plans and get a foreign degree first,” said Naidu.
 
 Another reason behind the brain drain is tough competition within the country. “Hardly 1-2% of students manage to get in the top institutions of the country. What do the rest 99% do? It is comparatively much easier to get into top 50 universities overseas,” said Agrawal. 
 
 
