PATNA: The real estate sector in Bihar has high hopes from the general budget to be presented by Union finance minister   on Wednesday. The real estate sector in the state has already been struggling for the past four years owing to policy paralysis. Realtors were also the worst hit after demonetisation.

 Sources in Patna district registration office claimed that registration for land and apartment flats has dropped by around 25-30% after demonetisation of old Rs1,000 and Rs500 notes.
 
  (BAI) has demanded reduction in interest rate on housing loan and no further increase in service tax. “Service tax was already increased in the last Union budget. Hence, we do not want any further increase in it this time. Besides, interest rate on housing loan should be reduced so that buyers could have the incentive to buy property following demonetisation,” said Manikant, former national vice-president of BAI.
 
 Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Associations of India (CREDAI) representatives have demanded income tax sops for home buyers. “I-T sops for property buyers, especially first-time buyers, will boost the realty sector. Besides, the ceiling on I-T rebate against payment of interest on housing loan should also be increased. Also, the real estate sector should also be given the status of an industry, so that capital cost would come down,” said Sachin Chandra, honorary secretary, CREDAI.
 
 Patna occupies the centre stage in the real estate industry in Bihar and its market size is approximately 10% of the state GDP. Till three years ago, Patna’s real estate market was largely considered to be one of the most booming markets in the region.
 
 However, the realty market witnessed a slump after 2012 due to policy paralysis due to delay in final approval of building bylaws, master plan, and the corresponding delay in approval of building construction maps. The building bylaws were, however, approved in 2014 and the Patna master plan got cabinet nod on October 25 last year.
 
