BHOPAL:   from New Market gathered around the cable stay bridge and created ruckus on Thursday, demanding that demolition of their shops by the civic body be stopped. Around 50 affected shopkeepers protested relocation to nearby Rangmahal area. 

 Bhopal Municipal Corporation (BMC) issued notices to the vendors to vacate a footpath behind which there is new   for the commercial area. The civic body sold the commercial space in the new building. 
 
 Street vendors claimed they were assured they would be accommodated in the new building on many occasions. Primarily, the entire land is of vendors, who sold shoes and related items. 
 
 Over the last decade, they were shifted on two occasions. They were first relocated from   area and later their shops were removed from the main road opposite Apex Bank building. The number of these vendors has increased over the years.
 
 “We have been misled by the BMC and government. Twice we were relocated in the name of development. We should have been accommodated in the new building,” said Anil Madwane, a representative of the street vendors association.
 
 All affected vendors had approached BMC mayor Alok   during his weekly ‘choupal’, an open forum to address public grievances. Sharma assured the vendors that their demand for permanent shops would be catered under the smart city project.
 
 “The new location of the vendors is barely 500 metres away. It would be better organised and the BMC would facilitate their resettlement,” said Sharma.
 
 BMC demolition began early on Thursday. As soon as the demolition began, street vendors staged protest and the group reached the cable stay bridge to highlight their demand. Police prevented protesters and, later the entrance of the bridge was cordoned off.
 
 Around 20 shops allegedly linked to influential local politicians survived the BMC demolition drive at New Market on Thursday. “These shops encroach a large space of land near the community hall and BSNL office. The shops were untouched by the BMC,” said a street vendor facing the problem. He claimed these shops were linked to influential politicians. When contacted, a BMC official said other shops have also been served notices.
 
