PATNA: Ever thought where from do schools get those fancy dresses in bulk which your school-going children wear in annual day or cultural fest functions? Well, there are boutiques which specialise in stitching these dresses and make supplies -- on payment of rent or price -- to the schools.

 Meet Chanda Gupta, whose boutique at Mithapur supplies clothes to  , Mt Carmel High School, St Karen’s High School, Radiant International School and Bishop Scott Girls School, among others. “We are into designing theme dresses, party wear, traditional costumes and fancy dresses resembling fruits, flowers and animals. We are also into supplying jewellery and accessories for the purpose,” she said on Monday.
 
 Her peak business season is from December to February. For, this is the time when schools and colleges organise their farewell parties, annual functions and sports meets.
 
 According to Chanda, who recently made supplies to even colleges, including A N College, J D Women’s College and Patna Women’s College, she sells a traditional clothe for anything between Rs 300 and Rs 700 while its rent is Rs 250 for one function. 
 
 “Western and fancy dresses cost more than Rs 700 per dress while their rent is Rs 300 per dress,” she said.
 
 Leela Singh, who has her boutique in Anisabad, thanks modern-day schools for proving a big help to   entrepreneurs. “I was good at stitching and designing clothes. Four years back, I started my shop and started getting orders from schools around the city,” she said.
 
 Leela’s major clients include Notre Dame Academy, St John’s High School and Kangaroo Kids School. “We are looking forward to expand our business,” she said.
 
 Sukeshi’s eight-year-old boutique on   supplies clothes to Delhi Public School and  . “We charge Rs 600 to stitch one dress, and that includes the cost of the cloth,” she said and added, in reply to a question, she stitches “thousands of dresses” every year.
 
 According to another boutique owner  , her earnings shoot up by 20% in months when she gets orders from schools.
 
 
