The soft sand was their bed, the sky their roof and strangers their brood. As they huddled around bonfires on the   under the night sky, it wasn't just the flames or conversations of jallikattu that united them - they shared memories of their childhood, dreams in a city that was alien and home, and the failed promises of the state.

 For four nights, students huddled to talk politics, complain about the food in their mess, the hostel facilities they didn't have, and the jobs they wished for. They slipped their legs under the sand which became their makeshift bed. They slept close to one another, borrowing each other's warmth.
 
 “They've had a long day,“ said Priya, a student of Central Polytechnic, Taramani, blinking back her own drowsiness as she kept vigil with her classmates at 2am on Friday .
 
 Very few in the group wanted to be identified by their full names. “This movement has no one name, no one face. We all have one emotion though, which is anger against a government that should have ideally stood up for us,“ said Hari, a former criminology student of   , as his friends clapped.
 
 They were discussing how vice-chancellors in uni versities paid to keep their seats war m.Another group nearby, most of them students from Tamil Nadu Dr  , were engrossed in a debate on demonetisation.
 
 Some gingerly shuffled in the dark to pick the garbage trail left by the evening crowd of protesters.Groups that were loud were hushed, passing vehicles were asked to dim their lights, and couples were spared. Men in khaki stood in groups, watching them warily. The whiff of alcohol, usually linked to such mass gatherings, was absent, but the smell of disillusionment was strong.
 
 As TOI hopped from one bonfire to another, it was evident that although jallikattu brought them together --bridging the state-private, urbanrural, engineering-arts cleave -the movement was the beginning of the students' effort to ask for what they think is rightfully theirs.
 
 “Frequent water supply in the hostel, a room that has a decent roof, food that doesn't smell, a government we believe in,“ said Manikandan, who used to stay in M C Raja hostel in Saidapet, the oldest Adi Dravidar hostel in the city .
 
 Many of the students TOI spoke to were first-generation learners, many of them in the city for the first time.
 
 “The state and central governments need to know we have a voice. We've had enough of the higher-ups talking for us, deciding for us without really asking us,“ said 20-year-old Mohan, who studies in an arts and science college in Koyambedu.“We have to thank   for that,“ he said wryly .
 
 (With inputs from A Selvaraj)
 
