MUMBAI: In a first, the drop in   following a bumper crop has forced the   government to purchase 25 lakh quintals of the   worth Rs 1,500 crore from farmers. This is its highest-ever procurement by the state. 

 In a bid to absorb excess   from the market and stabilize falling prices, the state government began to procure the pulse on behalf of the Centre under the National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation of India ( ) since January. It opened more than 286 procurement centres across the state and, so far, it has purchased 2.30 lakh tonne of the total 11.7 lakh tonne produced in Maharashtra this season. The state machinery has been procuring tur at the minimum support price ( ) of Rs 5,050 a quintal. The market price, though, has dropped to Rs 3,800-Rs 4,000.
 
 Maharashtra is the largest producer of tur in the country. The area under cultivation in the state has increased to 15.3 lakh hectare compared with 12.4 lakh hectare in 2015. Production, too, has risen to 11.7 lakh metric tonne against 4.4 lakh metric tonne last year.
 
 The amount spent on purchasing tur will be entirely borne by the Central government. The state, on its part, has budgeted Rs 100 crore for buying gunny bags, storage, transportation and other expenditure, said officials.
 
 Maharashtra and Karnataka together grow just under half of the country’s tur produce. Meanwhile, India is both the primary producer as well as consumer of tur in the world, generating around 2.6 million tonne per year—nearly three-quarters (68.9%) of the annual global produce, and consuming approximately 7,000 tonne every day.
 
 Senior officials from the marketing department said the state will continue to purchase till the month-end; this will take the total procurement to 3.5 lakh tonne, for close to one lakh tonne of tur is still at the procurement centres.
 
 “There is also a shortage of gunny bags to store the purch ased tur. We receive five truckloads of gunny bags from Kolkata every day and these are being sent to different centres,” said a senior official from the marketing department.
 
 The production is so high that all godowns within a 50-kilometre radius of purchase centres are full and the state has asked the Centre to allow it to ferry the pulse to godowns that are within a 120-kilometre radius, which the Central government has agreed to.
 
 “We hope that by April, the inflow of tur will ease and then we will shut the centres. The entire stock will be stored in government warehouses and introduced in the market from May when stocks reduce,” said another official.
 
