SURAT: A civil court in Navsari recently declared dead three fishermen, the first victims of Pakistani terrorists who unleashed 12 coordinated gun and bomb attacks across Mumbai in 2008. The court accepted applications of the kin of the deceased fishermen and ordered the state government to issue death certificates for the three presumably killed by the Pakistani terrorists. 

 Five fishermen were on board ‘Kuber’ when their fishing boat was hijacked off the coast of Saurashtra by   and other Pakistani terrorists. Only the body of Amarsinh Solanki, the captain of the boat from Valsad, was found.   of Junagadh, Natwar alias Natu Nanu Rathod, Mukesh Rathod and Balvant Tandel from Vansi-Borse and Dandi villages in south Gujarat remain missing till date. 
 
 Family members of deceased Balvant, Natu Rathod and Mukesh Rathod had waited for them for many years from 2008 onwards before coming to terms with the fact that they too had died. However, the state government was not ready to accept their supposition as the bodies of the fishermen were yet to be found. This deprived the families of the fishermen Rs3 lakh compensation and other benefits given to the victims of Mumbai terror attack. Section 108 of Indian Evidence Act 1872 says a person is presumed to be dead, who is unheard of for more than seven years by those who would naturally have heard of him/her if he/she had been alive.
 
 Damyanti Tandel, wife of Balvant; Natu’s wife   and Mukesh’s grandmother Lakshmi alias Lakhiben Rathod had approached the civil court in January 2016. Additional civil judge R G Yadav declared the fishermen dead and ordered the authorities to issue death certificates to their families under Special Relief Act. The families had approached Navsari district collector in 2015 seeking help before approaching the court. 
 
 “Family members of the deceased approached the civil court in January 2016 as the fishermen had been missing since 2008. The families submitted in their applications that the fishermen be declared dead,” district government pleader Tushar Sule said.
 
 “Police and state government submitted copies of the judgement of Mumbai terror attack case conducted in Maharashtra in Navsari civil court during the hearing. The court was informed that during police investigation it was claimed that the fishermen had been killed by the terrorists soon after they had hijacked the fishing boat,” Sule added.
 
 
