NAINITAL: Days after an eight-year-old   which was tranquilized and captured using a heavy duty earthmover died in the Nainital zoo, the state forest department has formed a four-member team to probe the incident. A team from the   (NTCA) will reach   on Monday to look into the incident. 

 Parag Madhukar Dhakate, conservator of forests, Terai-West Circle told TOI, “A four-member team has been formed to probe if there were any violations during the rescue operation. The team includes a forest officer, a vet and two independent wildlife experts.”
 
 The tiger had killed two people in Bailpadav range of Ramnagar forest near Corbett Tiger Reserve on Thursday. It was captured within a few hours and died the same night. 
 
 While the post-mortem report listed septicaemia, injuries and asphyxiation as the cause of death of the big cat, a few wildlife activists alleged that the tiger could have died because of the injuries sustained during the rescue operation that used an earthmover and indiscriminate firing of tranquilizer darts.
 
 The video of the rescue operation which went viral on the internet shows the animal crouching as the steel bucket of the earthmover is directed towards it. The big cat then tries to move away, but, falters, possibly as the anaesthesia takes effect. The video shows the machine pinning down the tiger and forequarters of the animal being crushed under it. 
 
 Dhakate had earlier told TOI that the post-mortem had found no “heavy injury” on the animal which could have been inflicted by the earthmover. He said that it was likely that the animal died of injuries it received due to territorial infighting with other big cats as the tiger mating season was on. In the past two months, decomposed bodies of two male tigers have been found in Bailpadav range and the forest department has attributed both deaths to territorial infighting.
 
 Other forest officers also said that earthmovers have been used in rescue operations that involved a maneater. Kehkashan Naseem, divisional forest officer, Ramnagar division said, “The earthmover was used to ensure success of the operation without any fatalities. The tiger was eight-feet-long and fierce. The operation could not have been carried out with just the use of elephants.”
 
 A wildlife expert on condition of anonymity said, “Even if the forest department felt it necessary to use an earthmover to scare the tiger, what was the need to crush the animal under it? It had already been tranquilized.”
 
 Meanwhile, the NTCA team will also determine whether the standard procedure was followed during the rescue operation. The NTCA has laid various guidelines to be followed during such operations. These include involvement of independent experts, establishing the identity of the tiger by comparing camera trap photographs with National Repository of Camera Trap Photographs of Tigers (NRCTPT) and setting traps etc.
 
 
