NAGPUR: Close on the heels of   bagging a double crown in Ivory Coast, there is another good news for the city badminton fans.

  has been selected in the Indian team which will participate in the   scheduled to be held at Chinese Taipei from August 19 to 30.
 
 The 21-year-old is the only Vidarbha player in the Indian squad. Incidentally, Vaishnavi became the first Nagpur University shuttler to represent Indian University for third year in succession, completing a unique hat-trick.
 
 The LAD College student first represented Indian University in 2015 at Korea. Last year Vaishnavi's two fellow LAD College students   and   were also part of squad which competed in Russia.
 
 This year too, the trio underwent selection trials at the  , Rohtak, on June 12. Vaishnavi with her brilliant performance in the trials impressed the selection committee members and got the nod for third year on the trot.
 
 Reigning Maharashtra Senior State women's singles champion, Vaishnavi was absolutely sure about her selection but she was waiting for the official letter. The Nagpur University received the confirmation letter from Rohtak on Thursday.
 
 "After the selection process, I knew I will be in the team. The panel picked me for singles but if the situation arises I will have to play doubles too. I am very happy that I am competing in the World University Games for third time in-a-row. I will give my best and try and bring glory to the region," Vaishnavi told TOI on Thursday.
 
 The shy and simple girl will attend the two-week long camp prior to the departure for Chinese Taipei. The Indian University camp will be held at Rohtak from August 3 to 18.
 
 Right now, Vaishnavi is focusing on doing well in the Maharashtra Senior State Badminton selection tournament which will be held at Nanded from July 14 to 17. She is among the favourites to win women's singles and doubles titles.
 
 Vaishnavi's coach and mentor Kiran Makode was proud of his ward's achievement. "The competition was very tough this year compared to last two years. I'm happy she made the. I am sure she will do well there," said Makode.
 
 Vaishnavi, who won the All India Senior Ranking title at Bareilly in 2015, thanked Nagpur University vice chancellor  , registrar Puranchandra Meshram, physical education director   and LAD College principal   for their support.
 
 
