JAIPUR: For dealing with stress, the   ( ) and colleges under it have multilayered mechanisms manned by counsellors, peer groups and teachers.

 Considering the two suicides that occurred over last 15 days in colleges under RU, these systems have proved to be ineffective against exam pressure faced by students.
 
 Komal Prajapath, a first year BA student of Maharani’s College, allegedly committed suicide on Thursday while Shamsheer Singh, a BBA student from  , took the extreme step last week. Reports have prime facie revealed stress to be the main reason for these suicides.
 
 The final report on the matter has not been submitted by the police.
 
 Incidentally, both students were living in hostels which are under constant scrutiny of counsellors and teachers, claim university officials.
 
 “We have a multilayered system to counter stress and detect students who are facing it,” said  , vice-principal of Maharani’s College.
 
 But the tragic incidents show that initiatives taken by these institutions have fallen short.
 
 Noted psychologist S S Nathawat says that existing systems to counter stress require a complete overhaul. “Girls find it difficult to express themselves, especially those who stay away from parents in hostels or rented accommodation. In fact, girls are often judged by her academic performance in our conservative society. This has intensified competition among them, leading to stress,” said Nathawat.
 
 So, such initiatives much be redesigned keeping the practical aspect in mind.
 
 RU’s public relations office took note of reforms required in existing anti-stress efforts and has proposed a joint study by the department of sociology and psychology to identify the root cause of suicides.
 
 Bhupendra Singh Shekawat, PRO, said, “Suicides are just the tip of the iceberg. The mental and emotional problems faced by students are below it. The study has been suggested to find out possible reasons,” said Shekawat.
 
 A team of 15 scholars from both departments will carry out the research.
 
