NEW  : A father-son duo has been arrested in Mangolpuri with 54 stolen mobile phones and laptops when they were returning after collecting the booty from a member of their   ‘company’. 

 The police said the duo, known for running the largest snatching syndicate in Delhi, had employed more than 50 youths for stealing valuable items from cars and auto-rickshaws in crowded markets. 
 
 The syndicate was referred to as the ‘company’ and the snatchers were paid a monthly salary along with perks, the police said. The accused used to organise snatching classes for newcomers before sending them on internship with experienced members. 
 
  (47) and his   Subhash (22) mosty operated in west, outer and northwest Delhi. While on weekdays, just five-six snatchers used to be out on duty, at least 20 men were generally sent to crowded markets on the weekends.
 
 A team led by inspector (Special Staff) Sukhbir Malik received a tip-off on Saturday that Kishore and Subhash would come to Mangolpuri’s L block in a car. A trap was laid and both were arrested as soon as they sat in the car after collecting the stolen items from one of the snatchers working for them, said deputy commissioner of police (outer) M N Tiwari. The police also found Rs 2 lakh on them.
 
 The accused initially tried to mislead the police but later said young people were hired as they were more active and could devote more time to the “job”. After collecting the stolen items, the duo used to sell these items at a much higher price. They managed to buy four houses across the city and two cars — a Santro and a Swift — with the money they had earned. They had put all houses on rent for extra income.
 
 Kishore was a karate player in his young days but had to leave it due to injury in his left knee. Out of his love for the game, he used Karate as his alias. Kishore, sources said, used to work at a factory before joining the crime world to back his dreams in 1992. But his wife divorced him two years ago after he refused to leave the world of crime. 
 
 “Over 42 cases of robbery, theft, pickpocketing, house theft and illegal arms have been registered against him in the past. This was, however, the first time that Subhash has been arrested,” said a senior officer. The police are trying to recover more stolen items and trace other members of the syndicate.
 
 
