SHIMLA:   is set to bring 2,000 hectare of additional land under organic farming besides developing 200  . Nearly 22,000 hectare of land has already been brought under organic farming in the state and 40,000 farmers have got themselves registered under the scheme.

 A senior official from agriculture department said, to encourage farmers towards organic farming, state government has announced attractive prizes for the farmers with excellent work in organic production. He said that first, second and third prizes of Rs 3 lakh, Rs 2 lakh and Rs 1 lakh respectively would be given to progressive farmers adopting organic farming.
 
 He said, ambitious Rs 321 crore project is being implemented in the state for diversification of agricultural activities under which the agrarian community is being motivated to adopt organic farming and produce cash crops. He said, the scheme is being implemented in Kangra, Una, Bilaspur, Hamirpur and   districts in collaboration with Japan International Co-operation Agency (JAICA).
 
 According to him, the scheme is giving prolific results as large number of farmers have come forward to adopt organic farming and the off-seasonal vegetable producing state has now become the leader of organic farming. As of now, Rs 212 crore has been spent under the scheme and provision of spending Rs 80 crore has been made for the current fiscal. Agriculture development society is a key player in implementing the scheme with the main objective to develop irrigation facilities, motivating farmers to adopt organic farming and producing cash crops, he added.
 
 He added that the farmers of Shimla, Solan and   districts have already taken a lead in getting themselves registered for organic farming and taking keen interest in producing vegetables, thereby supplementing the efforts of the state government in popularizing organic farming.
 
 “Chemicals are least used in Himachal Pradesh in comparison to other states and there is immense potential of organic agriculture in the state,” he said. According to an agriculture survey, there is scanty use of chemicals in the state that is 158g as against 381g per hectare on an average in the country.
 
 ‘Vermiculture’ is the key component in promoting organic farming and farmers are being providing 50% subsidy for installing vermicompost unit and 1.5 lakh such units have been established in the state so far. A target of installing 20,000 more such units have been fixed for this fiscal so as to ensure adequate availability of vermicompost to the farmers.
 
 
