NAGPUR: A team of seven bachelor of engineering (BE) students from SB Jain Institute of Technology, Management and Research have developed a modified cycle mechanism to produce renewable energy.

 The model, that appears like an exercycle, can generate power enough to run a small flour mill, domestic mixer grinder or metal cutters when attached with specific mechanism. The model can also power a generator to run two fans and a tubelight.
 
 The team of final-year mechanical engineering students include Mohammad Wasique Ashraf, Mohammad   Ansari, Harshit Lokhande, Harshad Borade, Lalit Thakkar, Rahul Patle and Mayur Tule. The team took around eight months to design the mechanism called ‘Dual quick return pedal operated multipurpose machine’. They were guided by assistant professor Faisal Hussain.
 
 Hussain said, “We need to discover and invent more such sources of clean energy. We need to minimize our dependence on fossil fuels.” 
 
 Head of the department VM Suple, principal SL Badjate and CEO   supported the team during the project.
 
 “We started research and analysis at the start of our seventh semester in August 2016. By November 2016, the model drawing was ready. From December 2015, the fabrication work started at the workshop of Naqeeb’s father in Gandhibagh,” said Wasique.
 
 The team worked on the model every day after the college hours till 9pm. “Sometimes, we took leave from classes to go for shopping material and parts,” said Harshad. Rahul added that they had to work on Saturdays and Sundays too.
 
 Talking about their inspiration, Harshad said, “India ranks 3rd after China and United Kingdom in energy comsumpiton. We feel renewable energy utilization must increase in day-to-day life. At the same time, health issues are affilicitng human beings. Thus, if we use this model in our routine life, then certainly both the purposes — good health and clean energy — would be served.”
 
 Wasique said, “We discovered the ‘whit-worth quick return mechanism’ and modelled the project on this method. A pedal operated dual quick return machine is used to get various output at their end. The main focus is on the upgrading the existing chain drive mechanism by means of the said mechanism,” he said. 
 
