AURANGABAD: State director general of police   reviewed, through video conferencing late on Monday, the preparedness of his forces to tackle the   in view of the  . 

 Seniors police officers who attended the review meeting via video conference unanimously maintained that there were clear instructions to continuously have dialogue with the organisers of the  , so that any issue is addressed before it gets out of hand.
 
 "The DGP asked all the unit commanders in the state to ensure that logistics are in place and men posted for bandobast are well-protected with helmets, shields and knee guards," an officer who attended the session told TOI. 
 
 The DGP's directives were implemented on Tuesday, when the entire police machinery was on the roads across the state, he said.
 
 To keep a check on any untoward incident, the police units were not only provided with additional forces in the form of   companies, but the units were also allowed to hire private and state transport vehicles to ensure mobility, said the officer.
 
 "The DGP said that our men should be well-guarded and if not, they may get injured, which may provoke the police force to deal with the situation with an iron hand and ending up attracting criticism from all quarters of society," the officer said.
 
 A special inspector general of police said, "There were fears of the agitation taking a violent turn, if not handled properly. Hence, all the police officers were asked to bridge the communication gap, if any, with the organisers of the agitation in their respective units."
 
 The state police chief is also said to have asked the personnel to not only ensure peaceful bandobast across the state, but also do professional policing in any given scenario.
 
 Another top police official said, "The DGP wanted us to adopt a proper approach while dealing with the situation. He clearly stated that our approach and manner of dealing with the situation should not be the reason for people to go against the police." 
 
 
