CHANDIGARH: After being at the receiving end of general public for inordinate delay in approving   for years, initiatives taken by the   for streamlining the process of approval of building plans, which was earlier marred by red tapism, have started showing results.

 The building branch, which used to take around four to five months in giving approvals, has given nod to around 110 plans in last 20 days. The branch is expected to clear the pendency of around 150 in a month. On an average, the building branch of the estate office receives around 50 building plans for approval every month. As per the citizen charter of the estate office, fresh building plans are to be approved in 24 days, while revised building plans in 32 days.
 
 With a view to clear the pendency, the estate office delinked approval of building plans from pending court proceedings for allowing residents to regularise violations both in commercial and residential buildings. Earlier, the estate office were not according approval to building plans\revised plan of building of which violation notices were pending at different levels, leading to backlog of plans.
 
 For making the process of building plan approval hassle-free for city residents, the estate office also removed the rider imposed by the UT architect department making third party verification of structural stability of buildings from SDO (building) mandatory.
 
 Besides introducing changes in the process, the officials have also adopted pro-active approach by calling the applicants and assisting them. “In cases where there are objections, the applicants are being called and the officials concerned are guiding them about how to regularise\remove the objections," said an official.
 
 City-based architect  , who is also chairman of building by-law committee of   (CBM), stated that the estate office has adopted a pro-active approach by bringing in much required changes in the process of building plan approval. “Building branch approving over 100 plans in last 20 days make evident that the changes introduced have started showing results," said Joshi.
 
 To further cut down the time taken in approving building plans and to save residents from harassment, there is plan to do away with plan advisory committee (PAC) that sanctions plans. However, this will be done only after the launch of UT’s ambitious project of starting an online service for building plan approval.
 
 While lauding the authorities for taking corrective steps, Federation of Sector Welfare Associations of Chandigarh chairman  , said, "Residents will be saved from harassment."
 
