KOCHI: Following the success of the Uber’s latest pilot project  , which was tested in Kochi, the company launched the new feature, which allows passenger to hire a taxi’s service for up to 12 hours in eight cities across India on Monday. 

 The idea for the new service was conceptualised by the   Kochi team as per market demands. 
 
 Over 1,000 top-rated drivers in the city (as per Uber’s customer rating system) were chosen and specially trained for the pilot project.
 
 “We have been conducting market analysis session with our drivers every week, during which we realised that there is a demand for such services in the city. We received a very good response for the UberHIRE pilot project. So far the service has been in good demand and our customers have also responded positively," said Nithin Nair, general manager of Uber Kerala. 
 
 He said that Uber India was willing to pilot this project within Kochi as the city is currently one of the top performing units in India. 
 
 Uber has added a unique feature for Kochi, which allows passengers to travel 20 - 30 km outside the designated area within which Uber services are made available. Passengers can use UberHIRE services to get to places such as Cherthala, Muvattupuzha, Chalakudy and Kodungallur, though customers will not be able to hire Uber service from these locations.
 
 For Kochi, the minimum fare for UberHIRE has been fixed at Rs 500 for the first 12 km and 2 hours, following which the passengers will be charged at Rs 2 per minute and Rs 12 per kilometre, with no surge pricing. 
 
 On Monday, eight more cities: New Delhi, Bengaluru, Chennai, Mumbai, Pune, Ahmedabad, Vizag and Nagpur, had launched UberHIRE services. “Rates vary in different cities depending on the demography and geography,” said Nitin Nair.
 
 He said that the drivers have also responded positively to the service as it is similar to their ‘traditional service’ model. 
 
 “For the drivers, the profitability of the new service depends on if we are able to find a ride back once we have travelled for more the 30kms. If we don't get a ride back then it will not turnout so well for us,” said  , joint secretary of the All Kerala Online Drivers’ Union.
 
 “"Cash payment for Uber was initiated in India, later introduced in other parts of the world. UberHIRE might also be replicated to suit to needs of other foreign cities,” said Nitin.
 
 
