BHOPAL: A day after the government banned mechanised sand mining in all rivers of the state, heavy earth moving machines were seen   from   in   on Tuesday. The machines rubbed salt on wounds of Hinota villagers who have been sitting on a dharna for the past one week to stop illegal sand mining in Ken river. The villagers have now threatened to hold a jal satyagrah from May 25.

 On Tuesday morning, heavy earthmoving machines were seen digging out sand both in Hinota and Baghari sand mines of the district bordering Uttar Pradesh. Two earth moving machines were seen along with half a dozen trucks at the river bank around 8.30 am, an eyewitness said.
 
 “Armed sand mafia men terrorise villagers, if they object. Rows of trucks loaded with sand can be seen ready to move out of the interstate border with pit passes issued after they are overloaded with sand and parked 12 kms from the mines. The pass should be issued before the trucks are loaded. Rules are violated but no body is bothered”, alleged Jhallu Singh, sarpanch of Baghari. He along with Sunita Singh, sarpanch of Hinota village, had met the district collector Ramesh Bhandari on Tuesday and submitted a memorandum to check illegal mining. 
 
 Sunita Singh said the entire area is covered with dust because of   and transportation of sand by trucks and dumpers. “They are creating air pollution leading to breathing problems among villagers”, she said.
 
 The sand mines in the area are spread both in Panna and Chattarpur districts. Though the contract for mining belongs to a Jabalpur-based miner, people from UP also operate and trucks loaded with the sand are despatched to cities like Lucknow, Kanpur, Raibareli and Faizaba, the villagers alleged.
 
 Ramcharan Singh, a villager, said: “For the past one month, mafia men have been digging sand round the clock. We have already informed the local police, but in vain. After the complaint, the administration had intervened and asked the contractor to not indulge in illegal mining, but in vain. Villagers have been regularly getting “ threats” from the mafia but they are committed to go ahead with their agitation”.
 
 However, the collector denied any mechanised mining. “I have directed district mining officer and other staff to ensure that no mechanised mining takes place”, he told TOI over phone.
 
