NEW DELHI:   scavenging was banned in India in 1993. And yet, since 1994, over 78 people have lost their lives in Delhi alone while cleaning sewers and septic tanks. New laws have come up, and even the Supreme Court has intervened on occasion. Yet Indians continue to   undignified deaths every year. 

 The manual removal of excreta and other wastes from latrines, sewers, septic tanks and drains is not allowed by law, except in emergencies. Even then, the law requires provision of proper safety measures, medical treatment for workers and health insurance. Yet even as late as last week, four people descended into what was once a rainwater harvesting tank in   without safety gear and succumbed to noxious gases. 
 
 The practice was banned in 2013 under the Prohibition of Employment as Manual Scavengers and Their Rehabilitation Act. But three years later a report prepared by the   for the Delhi high court identified 233 manual scavengers in the capital, of whom 104 were government employees. This figure, say experts, is misleading since there is no way of determining the exact number of people working "privately" in manual scavenging.
 
 The three municipal corporations have 2,382 nala beldars, or drain cleaners, on their rolls. Officially, these employees are meant to keep small drains free of silt, but there is nothing that says they cannot be made to clear deeper sewers. Delhi Jal Board too has full-time sewer cleaners. Besides, civic agencies often outsource the dehumanising work to contractors, who find itinerant labour for such assignments. This allows the agencies to escape culpability in the event of accidents. 
 
 A UN report, ‘Breaking free: rehabilitating former manual scavengers’, points out that in the 2011 census of India, "There are 13,14,652 toilets where human excreta is flushed into open drains, 7,94,390 dry latrines where the human excreta is cleaned manually. 73% of these are in rural areas and 27% in urban areas." 
 
 Bezwada Wilson, awarded the 2016 Magsaysay Award for his striving to get justice for manual scavengers, said that though the practice was first banned in India in 1993, another law had to be enacted 2013. "Even this has made little difference to the situation on the ground," said Wilson. "The Act says that no human should be allowed into drains or septic tanks unless it is an emergency. Even then, they are to be provided with certain items for their safety, including gloves and gumboots. However, these rules are not followed." 
 
 Instead, contractors often make the workers imbibe cheap alcohol.  , former chairperson of Delhi Safai Karamchari Aayog, said that alcohol might inure the workers, but "this is their undoing more often than not because workers are too inebriated to think quickly if they find themselves in a dangerous situation". Singh added that workers don’t have access to medical insurance though they are susceptible to infections and diseases due to the nature of their job. 
 
 Wilson’s NGO, Safai Karamchari Andolan, has been documenting cases of manual scavenging for several years. Wilson rues that the outrage over sewer deaths lasts just a few days. In the 74 deaths documented by the NGO till June 2017, families of victims received the Supreme Court-mandated compensation of Rs 10 lakh in only one instance. 
 
 "A large number of sewer deaths occur in bunches — three or four victims collapse while cleaning the drains," pointed out Wilson. "On a few occasions, some of those who died had entered the sewage pit to save a colleague." Wilson also pointed out the social aspect of the deaths: "All the deceased belonged to the Valmiki community. Unless we take the issue of inequality seriously, these ‘murders’ will not stop." 
 
