AURANGABAD: After huge outcry over city's 299th rank in the Swachh Bharat Mission survey, the   in the   (AMC) has appeared to have found an opportunity to once again privatise city's solid waste management system. 

 For effective and speedy disposal of the system, city mayor Bapu   on Friday directed municipal administration to give collection and transportation of garbage in private hands. "The municipal administration should start the process of inviting bids from interested agencies for door-to-door collection of dry and wet garbage and its transportation," Ghadamode passed the ruling in the special general body meeting.
 
 Besides, the mayor also asked the municipal authorities to decentralise garbage handling and create garbage processing units at various locations.
 
 Further, expressing doubts over AMC's annual expenditure over solid waste management, Ghadamode asked the authorities to conduct an audit of last three years' spending and submit the report. On an average, the AMC is spending Rs 60 crore on the system.
 
 Currently, the municipal corporation has deployed nearly 60 vehicles including tippers, tractors, skip loaders and hook loaders to lift garbage and dump it at a dumping ground. Some of these vehicles are deployed through private agencies on which the municipal body is spending significant amount.
 
 "The AMC is over utilising its garbage dumping yard located on the outskirts of the city at  . It is also failing to acquire land for new dumping yard. However, instead of going for a new yard, the authorities should now treat the garbage," said Ghadamode.
 
 The civic body had roped in a private agency, Ramky Enviro Engineers Ltd, to manage solid waste in 2009 for 10 years. But the private agency suspended the project in December 2011, alleging the civic body was delaying in clearing the bills.
 
 It should be noted that nearly 350 workers attached to 14 self-help groups are currently engaged in solid waste management in  . For rest of the city, there is a team of about 1,500 sanitary workers. 
 
