HYDERABAD: After finally posting a win on the road this season, defending champions   return to their citadel to an even greater challenge in the form of table toppers  . The Sunday night clash between the two top sides at the RGIC Stadium promises to be a blockbuster bigger than Baahubali 2, which has swept the nation off its feet.

 The Sunrisers got a much-needed boost ahead of their return clash against the Knight Riders with a 26-run win over Kings XI Punjab on Friday night. But they will need to replicate their Mohali show to stop the Kolkata juggernaut. The statistics are definitely against the hosts as they have lost seven out of their 10 matches against their rivals. Worse, the Sunrisers had lost two of the three matches played at the RGIC Stadium.
 
 But this year, the Sunrisers have turned their home ground into an impregnable fortress ­ winning all the four games played thus far. The home conditions suit the gameplan of skipper   with his strength being their bowling attack. The Sunrisers have made it a habit of defending their citadel well with swing bowler Bhuvneshwar Kumar and leggie Rashid Khan being in top form.
 
 Warner and   strung a century partnership against Kings XI as their ploy to attack from both ends paid rich dividends. However, against a more balanced attack of the Knight Riders, it remains to be seen if the Sunrisers' openers can get their side off to a searing start.
 
 The inclusion of   has lent solidity to the batting with the New Zealand skipper making it count in every game.   too has been quite beefy with the willow. The only concern will be the indifferent form of Yuvraj Singh, who, barring the first game against Royal Challengers Bangalore, has not done much.
 
 The visitors too have been on a roll this season winning seven of their nine games. The pair of   and   have recorded four century partnerships when chasing in   history - the most by any pair going past Warner-Dhawan's three. The duo has been in awesome form this season with Uthappa posting four 50s in his last six innings with Gambhir too not far behind. The southpaw has recorded four half-century knocks in IPL 10.
 
 Kolkata have a balanced bowling attack which has been testing the best in the business. Spin twins   and Kuldeep Yadav have been quite a handful for their rivals. The pacemen too have lending admirable support.
 
