KOLKATA: Hotels and large corporates are on a collision course with   officials over the latter’s decision to curtail the commercial   entry pass. The pass that allowed access to airline offices, check-in desk and baggage carousel-enabled hotels and corporate houses to meet and assist guests and clients at the airport. 

 Sources in the hospitality industry said Kolkata airport had not renewed the passes since last month-end, citing security concerns expressed by the   (BCAS). They have, in turn, questioned the move as the facility continues in Delhi and Mumbai airports. 
 
 In Kolkata, passes are issued against a fee of Rs 31,740 per annum. They allow the holder access to the terminal basement where airlines offices are located, check-in desk where registered baggage of departing passengers is handed to the airlines and baggage carousel from where registered luggage of arriving passengers can be collected. 
 
 Hotels and corporates offer the facility to enable smooth transit for passengers. Employees deputed by them meet guests and collect their luggage from the carousel. For departing passengers, they carry the luggage from the car to the check-in desk where registered baggage is handed over. 
 
 Among the hotels that offered the facility in Kolkata are Taj Bengal, ITC Sonar, Oberoi Grand, Park, HHI, Swissotel, JW Marriott and Novotel. Also, corporate houses with annual turnover in excess of Rs 100 crore like ITC, RP-Sanjeev Goenka Group and Exide availed of the facility. 
 
 Officials at hotels and important corporates in the city are puzzled over why a facility that was promoted by the Union tourism ministry and is in place at other metros is being curtailed in Kolkata. “If we cannot go till the check-in counter and baggage arrival belt, then of what assistance can we be to guests and clients? And if our access is just till the public area where anyone can go by purchasing a ticket for Rs 60, why pay a hefty fee?” wondered one official.
 
 Airport director Atul Dikshit said the issue of commercial passes was being reviewed but added that entry to the airlines offices at the basement was unlikely to be allowed. “We are in dialogue. When fresh passes are issued, they will confirm to BCAS guidelines and our commercial circular,” he said.
 
 
