GURUGRAM: A 44-year-old assistant sub-inspector with Haryana Police was found dead with a bullet wound in his house in DLF 2 in the early hours of Tuesday. 

 Naresh Kumar Yadav’s only son Mohit has been missing since the crime, police sources said. Naresh was posted in Faridabad.
 
 Police said Naresh was found lying in a pool of blood in his bedroom on the first floor of his three-storeyed house at Nathupur village in DLF 2 area around 5am by his wife Sunita. The cop used to sleep alone in his bedroom.
 
 Sunita told cops her husband returned home from Faridabad’s Pali police chowki around 7.30 pm on Monday and as usual went to bed after having his dinner around 9.30 pm. “But around 5 am, when I opened the door of his room, I was shocked to see him lying on a blood-soaked bed,” she said in her police complaint.
 
 A police team reached the spot minutes after the family informed the DLF 2 police station. “When we reached the spot, we found Naresh was already dead. He had a bullet wound to the back of his head,” Deepak Saharan, DCP (east), said.
 
 Sunita told police that she, their son and her mother-in-law were also in the house at the time of the crime, but she did not hear any gunshot. All the family members lived in separate rooms in the house.
 
 Police said the family members have not raised any suspicion on anyone. “But we don’t know about the whereabouts of his only son. Mohit had a criminal past and we will soon try to question him. As of now, who killed the ASI is a mystery. We have formed a special team to probe the case,” the DCP said.
 
 However, sources said that Mohit is under the scanner as he had strained relations with his father as the slain cop had an extra-marital affair with another woman. 
 
 “Mohit is absconding since the crime and his mobile phone is also switched off,” sources said.
 
 “Mohit was earlier arrested for an alleged robbery and murder of a woman near Cyber Hub, but was let off by a court after a witness turned hostile. He was also booked for robbing a guard of his bike and mobile, but managed to get bail in that case too as the victim turned hostile,” a source said.
 
 Based on Sunita’s complaint, an FIR has been registered against unidentified persons under sections 302 (murder) of IPC and 25-54-59 of Arms Act at DLF-II police station. Police have handed over the body to his family members after an autopsy.
 
 “Mohit is our key suspect as he is not traceable since the murder. A .32 bore weapon was probably used in the crime which took place around 3 am,” said an investigating officer.
 
