HYDERABAD: The carcass of a   was found at the   (UoH) south campus on Thursday . This is the fourth such incident involving the death of a spotted deer reported from the varsity campus over the past few months.

 The incident came to light after a group of students saw the fawn lying dead with multiple injuries. Students suspect that the spotted deer was either mauled by stray dogs or fell prey to poachers.
 
 Concerned over the rise in such unfortunate incidents, many people have pointed a finger at the rampant deforestation at the UoH campus. “University authorities are chopping down the core part of the jungle for laying roads. Due to this several wild animals including spotted deer and wild boar are coming out and falling prey to poachers and stray dogs,“ said Ravi Jillapalli, founder of Wild Lens, a   protection group at UoH. Jillapalli said that the jungle near the south campus was a buffer zone for spotted deer and other animals and alleged that deforestation was damaging the eco-system be yond redemption.
 
 Last week, a carcass of a wild boar with injuries was found by members of Wild Lens in the same area. Last summer, 44 spotted deer were killed in dog attacks, poaching and some even died of dehydration.
 
 While a series of meetings were held between forest department officials and the university officials over the past few months, an amicable solution is yet to be reached on the issue. “In the executive council meeting we had taken up the issue of deteriorating wildlife on campus. Members of the EC suggested that a consolidated plan be made and a specific area identified that can be earmarked as a biodiversity park, inaccessible to common people,“ said Vipin Srivastava, adding that the work to chalk out the plan is yet to begin.
 
 Forest department officials claim that the university lacks funds because of which they are unable to resolve the issue. “The university has perforated walls. We had advised them to fix them or put up a mesh or fencing in surrounding areas. But in the past meetings, the university officials informed us that they do not have enough funds because of which they are unable to fix the problem,“ said S Kukrety , chief conservator of forest for Rangareddy district. 
 
