AHMEDABAD: The Gujarati language has acquired such an “attitude“ that purists might get a “heart attack“. Over 10,000 words have been added by the   to the Gujarati dictionary ' '. And more than 50% of the new entries are English words.

 'Sarth Gujarati Jodani Kosh' is considered to be the most authoritative Gujarati dictionary approved by the government and literary institutions. This project was initiated by Mahatma Gandhi in 1929. The dictionary is being revised after 50 years and the 1,200-page volume contains more than 75,000 words.
 
 All supplements prepared over the past two decades will be incorporated in the volume to be published by the end of this month, said lexicographer Niranjana Vora, who looks after the task. A team of four -advised by a seven-member panel -has been working on revisions.
 
 The revised dictionary features English words such as 'ivory tower', 'attitude', and 'heart attack'. Difficult words like `extrapolation' too figure in the dictionary. The dictionary also offers definitions in English. For example, 'punarvasan kendra' has been defined as `rehabilitation centre'. Vora said, “We have chosen English words to explain meanings of Gujarati words because English words are commonly used nowadays.“
 
 Apart from English words, terms from Portuguese, French, Arabic, Persian, Urdu and many Indian languages have entered the dictionary. Some words from previous edition have been excluded.“Words for castes and communities which are not socially and legally acceptable have been removed or their meanings changed,“ Vora said. Members of the Chaaran community, for instance, had objected to being described as a community that composes songs to please kings. Now, notes say that the word is associated with a community that can compose and sing songs.
 
 When the first edition was released in 1929, Gandhiji prohibited changes in the dictionary. Then, it had 43,743 words and did not list definitions. The second edition (1931) provided meanings of the words. The third edition (1937) added 10,169 words. In 1967, the fourth edition of 9,046 pages contained 68,467 words.
 
