HYDERABAD: The state government’s decision to shunt out two   of Niloufer Hospital drew flak from both activists and doctors as there was no effort to fix responsibility on the guilty, but a mere exercise to target the administrative brass of the state-run  . The officials were just fall guys, said a senior doctor.

 “The 500-bedded Niloufer Hospital is mainly a referral centre for paediatric cases as 440 beds are allocated for children while only 60 beds are meant for maternity cases. Why target a paediatrician-superintendent and spare the administrative head of gynaecology and obstetrics department?” asked a senior doctor.
 
 The gynaecology wing staff, including resident doctors, come under the direct administrative control of Government Maternity Hospital (GMH), Petlaburj, which allocates duties. What has further infuriated paediatricians at Niloufer is the government’s move to make a gynaecologist, GMH superintendent Dr Shailaja, as new superintendent of Niloufer Hospital.
 
 “The ‘surrender’ order is an eyewash. Punishment must be fixed on all those responsible for human rights violations,” said Mujtaba Hasan Askari, president, NGO, Helping Hand Foundation.
 
 Independent investigation by TOI revealed that of the five deaths, resident doctors performed hysterectomy on two patients, Farah Fatima and Nusrath Begum, when they failed to control post-partum haemorrhage (loss of more than 500 ml blood from genital tract within 24 hours of delivery).
 
 Both patients were brought dead at  , with doctors attributing it to excessive bleeding. Two others, Anusha and Bushra Begum, died at OGH within hours of being shifted from Niloufer. In their records, OGH doctors blamed disseminated intravascular coagulation — failure of blood clotting mechanism with sepsis shock — as cause of death. 
 
 More sparks are likely to fly with Helping Hand Foundation planning to move the  , which has taken up the case suo motu and issued a notice to the government. We believe there are serious lapses in the C-section deliveries,” said president of the NGO.
 
 Experts say the State Medical Council should intervene. “Doctors in operation theatres are supposed to be competent, but it was found lacking in this case,” said a retired doctor.
 
