PUNE: The airlines are reviewing their standard operating procedures (SOPs) for dealing with unruly passengers at airports and on aircraft after Osmanabad MP   assaulted an Air India staffer. 

 Officials of different airlines at the Pune airport have been asked to remain cautious and not to hesitate to inform the   (CISF) personnel if such incidents take place, a source told TOI. 
 
 The CISF is in charge of the airport security.
 
 A   spokesperson said, "All staffers dealing directly with customers are being specifically briefed about how to handle unruly travellers. In the light of recent instances across the services sector, we are reviewing how this can be further fine-tuned to protect our staffers from unruly and disruptive travellers. Handling such situations on ground or in the air is in line with what is stipulated by   (IATA) and the Director-General of Civil Aviation ( )."
 
 Another airline official said, "We are alert and cautious. We do try in every possible way to ensure our passengers are not hassled and don't face issues. There is a system in place, wherein if a passenger is found creating a scene and continuously misbehaving with the staff or others, the CISF is informed and they take care of the matter. We continuously ask and request an unruly passenger to behave nicely and only when things get out of hand, the CISF is informed. The staffers have been asked to report matters of rude behaviour on the part of passengers immediately so that appropriate action can be initiated."
 
 In January, Air India decided to keep restrainers like plastic handcuffs in their domestic flights to take care of unruly passengers after their crew members faced two incidents of alleged molestation at the hands of passengers. Last year, the DGCA allowed the airlines to carry restrainers on board, similar to the practice followed by the western airlines.
 
 A CISF source said, "We are always ready to help. If an airline reports an unruly passenger, we check out the matter immediately and action is initiated after investigation. The same applies to the airline staffers if they misbehave with passengers."
 
 
