CHENNAI: With the   in Chennai degenerating into extensive violence on its seventh day and the state appearing to have lost the plot, several actors on Monday appealed for peace and calm and urged protesters to halt the demonstrations.

 Superstar   posted a statement via his Twitter handle in which he urged protesters not to allow anti-social elements to capitalise on their struggle.
 
 Asking them to call off the agitation, he said the victory of peaceful and disciplined protests against the ban on Jallikattu by students, youth, women and all sections of Tamil people, which earned widespread attention and appreciation.
 
 Actor Kamal Haasan, who has been vocal in his support for Jallikattu and the protests, tweeted: “This is a mistake. Aggressive police action on students’ passive resistance will not bear good results.”
 
 He also expressed concern about violence in Alanganallur, one of the key venues for Jallikattu.
 
 The actors’ appeal came on a day that the Tamil Nadu assembly passed a bill to amend the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960, permitting the bull-taming sport and effectively replacing its January 21 ordinance to legalise it in the state.
 
 Radio jockey and actor R J Balaji requested the protesters to go home, saying the ordinance that the state government promulgated was a sign that the protests over the past week were a success.
 
 “Instead of celebrating the first success [the ordinance], why are you taking part in violent protests?” he said in a video widely circulated on social media. He later told television reporters on Marina that lack of leadership among the protesters led to confusion among the protesters.
 
 Actor Raghava Lawrence, one of the main proponents of the pro-Jallikattu protests on Marina Beach, thanked Tamil Nadu chief minister O Panneerselvam and his government and said it was time for students to give up the agitation.
 
 After the state assembly passed the Bill revoking the ban, filmmaker P Bharathiraja composed a poem questioning the violence during the agitation and urged Tamils to identify the culprits.
 
 Actor Sivakumar, drawing a comparison between the pro-Jallikattu agitation and the 1960s anti-Hindi agitation, applauded the protesters for their “historic victory”.
 
