NEW DELHI:   has announced the latest auction of its flats, but D-6   is bad advertisement for the land-owning agency’s capacity to provide quality housing. For five years now, apartments in the four housing complexes there — Narmada, Saraswati, Yamuna and Ganga, constructed for use during the 2010 New Delhi Commonwealth Games — have suffered for lack of basic amenities.

 TOI had described the pathetic condition of the showpiece flats in a report in August 2015. In response,   had assured that the gaps would be filled. But two years later, the problems continue to bother the owners, all of whom had expected proper amenities for their Rs 40-80 lakh investments.
 
 Parking is a daily hassle. When the flats were auctioned in 2010, the basement parking was not put up for sale due to waterlogging and technical problems. Even today, says Vikram Singh Gehlot, president, Narmada RWA, most of the parking space remains off limit to residents, while “defect design” prevents SUVs from driving into the basement.
 
 Ayush Chandra, a Narmada resident, said that he has to reach home by 7pm if he is to find parking space. “Every day is a struggle to find a place for my car,” said Chandra. DDA officials claimed that the basement parking would be ready in another 20 days or so. The process got delayed because of the electricity department having to install high-capacity exhausts, they said.
 
 Water is another drawback. On Tuesday, the flats in Narmada and Saraswati did not get water supply. AT best, the DJB supply is inadequate. Then there are the common eyesores of open electric cables, broken marble cladding, uncovered and broken drainage, choked rainwater harvesting pits and eroding grit wash. “DDA took crores in advance for maintenance work but has done little,” grumbled NS Mor, president of Ganga RWA.
 
 DDA officials, in turn, blamed the residents for the poor condition of the buildings and roads. “People have carried out massive alterations in the flats and damaged the façade. The   is responsible for preventing such alteration. As for roads, RWAs illegally installed speed-breakers, which had to be removed, damaging the lanes,” said an official.
 
 In Narmada, one of the lift has not worked for year, claimed Gehlot. Sanjeev Chaudhary, president of Yamuna RWA, similarly complained of a non-functioning lift that hasn’t been repaired despite numerous complaints. Peculiarly, a construction defect means the MIG flats on the first, second and third floors at Narmada and Saraswati don’t have access to elevators. “We have to go up to the fourth floor and then walk down though our flats cost the same as the ones on the fourth floor,” said a resident at Saraswati.
 
 Shopping for daily needs too is a big inconvenience, with the shops at Narmada closed till date. JP Aggarwal, principal commissioner, land disposal and housing, DDA, lamely promised, “The policy to fix the reserve price for shops/parking lots/flats is being renewed. In 3-4 months, we will initiate the process for auctioning the shop spaces.”
 
 
