Nagpur: Endorsing the survey conducted by   advocacy group SaveLIFE Foundation across 10 cities, which indicates that poor condition and faulty design of roads is leading to accidents, traffic experts have blamed the lack of collective responsibility of enforcement agencies and vehicle users.

 Ravindra Kaskhedikar, secretary of city NGO Jana Akrosh which is working for traffic awareness, said the introduction of computerized driving test in the regional transport office has actually failed to produce good drivers/riders and blamed corruption in the department for the dismal state.
 
 Kaskhedikar said underage riding/driving has also increased manifold. “During our awareness programmes in junior colleges, we learnt that hardly 40% teenagers possess driving licence,” he said, adding that parents must act strictly to curb underage driving.
 
 “All Nagpurians should be ashamed. It’s a collective responsibility of citizens and government agencies to make city roads safe,” he said.
 
 Tejinder Singh Renu, social activist and secretary of Vidarbha Taxpayers’ Association, agreed to almost all the findings of the SaveLIFE Foundation survey. According to him, a strong road safety law and responsible driving would help reduce accidents. However, before that, it is imperative for the authorities to ensure that only a deserving applicant, one who has knowledge about traffic rules, is issued a licence, he said.
 
 “I would like another factor to be incorporated in future survey — population growth rate impact on traffic and road users. With rising population and vehicular number, our road infrastructure and public transport gets choked every day,” he said.
 
 “I too fear driving or riding nowadays in city since most roads are narrow due to ongoing work. This fear is not due to any doubts on my driving skills, but of other road users, who mostly drive recklessly and carelessly,” he added.
 
 Anjan Chatterjee, former additional director general of GSI and lawyer (who has also filed a writ petition in the court over traffic issues), the feedback received from 10 cities is an eye opener into the loopholes of the prevalent traffic system. It is clear that the respondents have reflected the existing ground situation with their frank opinions, he said. 
 
 Many of these facts like feeling unsafe on roads, defective road engineering and culpability, issuing of driving licences, accidents and post-trauma response and vehicle safety norms are too glaring. The officials concerned cannot ignore the feedback,” Chatterjee said.
 
 “The Motor Vehicles Act, 1988, is proposed for amendments to 68 of the 223 sections and to have 28 new sections inserted, mostly to accelerate road safety measures. It is a good step to check accidents. But with complexities in managing our chaotic traffic, many unfilled gaps will remain,” he said.
 
 “Repeat offences within three years need to be dealt with strictly. City roads have become unsafe as it was ignored,” he added.
 
 Traffic expert Vinay Kunte blamed corrupt practices in the transport department for unsafe roads. He said only 1 out of 4 persons gives driving test honestly and without paying bribe. “The other three go through driving schools and the instructor sits on the front passenger seat while the driving test is being conducted,” he said. 
 
 Regional transport officer Sharad Jichkar rubbished the finding of the survey that only 56% drivers appeared for driving tests. He said the department issues driving licences only if an applicant clears the mandatory tests.
 
 Deputy commissioner of police (traffic) Ravindrasinh Pardeshi admitted a few flaws in road engineering, but they are being rectified now with the help of various government agencies.
 
 He claimed that with the help of Nagpur Municipal Corporation, the traffic police are ensuring footpaths free for pedestrians. “We are transforming into a Smart City. Our behavior should also like that,” he said, appealing to motorists to abide by traffic rules and regulations.
 
 
