THANE: Priya Khandare, 25, had spent the last 10 years in self-imposed seclusion in her Kalyan home to avoid sympathy and unsolicited suggestions on a clutch of health problems: a bulging abdomen despite her lean figure, an absence of menstruation, swollen feet and increasing breathlessness.

 Her middle-class family, however, persisted and met several doctors before the root cause was diagnosed: cardiac or, more specifically, pericardial tuberculosis that is a rare manifestation seen only in 1% of TB patients.
 
 It is believed that the TB bacilli cannot infect the heart easily, but isolated cases keep popping up across the country. A year ago, Hyderabad doctors published a report in the   about 13 cases of myocardial TB cases (TB infection of the heart muscle). Priya's TB infection had affected her pericardium, a translucent sack covering the heart that protects against infections.
 
 “As the woman was suffering from pericardial TB, the pericardium had become thick like an egg shell and prevented the heart from pumping properly . The patient used to feel breathless as a result and had symptoms of heart failure,“ said Dr  , consultant cardiologist at Fortis Hospital, Kalyan, who treated her.
 
 After the diagnosis, which is usually delayed as the symptoms are difficult to relate to TB, doctors were reluctant to perform the delicate operation on Priya, said her family. Finally, the young graduate got a new lease of life after a successful surgery about nine months ago. She has just completed her TB treatment and now weighs around 50 kg.
 
 When Priya visited the hospital last year, she was 30 kg and her abdomen and feet were swollen. “Due to the illness, she underwent hormonal changes that prevented her from attaining menarche until 25. Six months after the surgery, she got her first periods,“ said Khan.
 
 A CT scan and an angiography were conducted on Priya before she was recommended removal of the pericardium.The surgery couldn't be conducted right away as the patient was in an unstable condition. It took 15 days for her to be stabilized. “Surgery is usually the preferred treatment for pe ricardial constriction. There was tremendous risk in conducting surgery and the patient and her family were advised accordingly. The pericardium, which had almost become like an egg shell, was peeled off.Also, nothing was put as a substitute as the heart can function properly without the pericardium,“ added Khan.
 
 “Pericardial tuberculosis occurs only in 1% of TB patients. In these cases, the infection affects the heart, due to which they suffer from breathlessness,“ said Dr  , secretary of the Maharashtra State Anti-Tuberculosis Association.
 
 Dr Vikas Oswal, a pulmonologist who practises in Govandi, said pericardial TB is rare.“In the last five years, I must have treated as many cases. One of the young patients who had perdicardial TB needed surgery for treatment," he said.
 
 (Name changed to protect identity)
 
