KOTA: Hours after the body of a 16-year-old girl was found in Kota on Thursday morning, police solved the case and detained two minor boys in this connection. One of the accused allegedly murdered the girl along with his cousin as she had rejected his love proposal a few days ago.

 The two minor accused were produced before the were produced before the   on Thursday evening that ordered to send them to children's home.
 
 “On Thursday morning, half-naked body of a 16-year-old girl, identified as Neha Udiya, a student of Class VIII was found in Udiya basti,“ said  , circle incharge (CI),   police station.
 
 The deceased girl had gone to play dandiya in a nearby Pandal on Wednesday night and did not return home.
 
 The family members carried out a thorough search in the area, he said.
 
 On Thursday morning, some passers-by spotted half-naked body of a minor girl with fatal injuries on head and informed the police and family members, the CI said.
 
 “Following an investigation into the matter and inquiry with the family members of the deceased minor, police detained two minor boys, both around 17 years old late last evening,“ C I Joshi said.
 
 “Both the accused are cousins and one of them had proposed to the deceased girl a few days ago but she rejected his proposal, following which he came to the victim's home, threatened her family members and also broke the window panels,“ the police official said.
 
 Thereafter, the boy left the city. He returned to Kota only a day before the incident, the CI added.
 
 “On Wednesday night, the boy saw Neha playing dandiya with some other boy. He was enraged and went to his cousin's house where both conspired to murder the girl,“ the CI said. “The accused called the girl outside the dandiya pandal in an isolated ground on some pretext. Both raped her and crushed her head with a heavy stone. In order to curb her cries, they tied her mouth with her pyjama. Pieces of dandiya sticks and broken ankle chains scattered on the ground at the spot indicated that the victim had struggled with the accused,“ the CI said.
 
 Both the accused have been booked under sections 376, 302 of IPC and sections of POCSO Act, the CI said.
 
 Further investigation into the matter is underway, the CI added.
 
