PUNE: Over 21,000 seats allotted for in-house, management and minority quotas were left vacant at the end of the   round for   (FYJC, Std XI) on Thursday.

 A total of 10,231 seats have been filled up in the quota round. The vacant seats will now be surrendered by respective colleges for the   (CAP). 
 
 Before starting the common admission process, the committee directed all the colleges to fill up their quota seats in the zero round, before the start of the regular  . The zero round ended on Thursday and over 21,741 seats remained vacant.
 
 Secretary of the CAP committee Meenakshi Raut said, “Now all the vacant seats will be transferred to regular   for the benefit of the students.”
 
 The students who have taken admission under any of the quotas will not be allowed to participate in the regular rounds. Meanwhile, the students who had registered for the FYJC regular rounds were given the opportunity to make changes, report mistakes in their applications on Wednesday and Thursday. The CAP committee received 50 such applications to effect changes.
 
 Raut said, “A majority of the applications received were for change in marks. Besides, some students wanted to include their caste certificates since they were not available with them at the time of registrations. In many cases, students wrongly wrote their seat numbers where zero was written as ‘O’ and later had to apply for the change.”
 
 The CAP committee published the list of applicants who applied for changes in their forms on Friday evening. The data received will be sent for processing to an agency between Friday and Sunday. On July 9, the audit of the admission process will be conducted and the first merit list will be announced on July 10.
 
 There are a total of 94,580 FYJC seats in colleges located in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad.
 
 For students’ convenience, guidance centres were set up in nine zones across Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad. The centres also helped facilitate students applying from different boards or from other than Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal limits. “The students were allowed to fill in the online forms until 5 pm on June 29, after which the link was removed. All unfinished forms will be discarded. The students had been given time to fill both part 1 and 2 forms and if they failed to do so, they are out of the Centralised Admission Process,” Meenakshi Raut, assistant deputy director of education of the Pune division.
 
 Students who wish to take Bifocal course as an optional subject for Science and Commerce must seek admission via CAP. 
 
