LUCKNOW/DELHI: In a major breach of security , a deadly plastic explosive,   (PETN), was smuggled inside the Uttar Pradesh assembly , making a mockery of the precinct's three-tier security system. Police sources said PETN in crystalline form, weighing around 150gm, was possibly sneaked into the House on the night of July 11 to trigger an explosion later.

 The explosive was detected on the morning of July 12 when the bomb detection and disposal squad (BDDS) was sanitising the House premises as part of the mandatory daily drill whenever the assembly is in session. The squad found a blue carry bag under the seat cushion in the third row.
 
 Inside the bag, the squad found another plastic packet containing between 100 and 150gm of colourless and odourless crystals. The team placed the packet before a sniffer dog. Senior police officers said since there was no odour, the dog did not react.
 
 However, despite the absence of other suspicious components like wire, fuse, electronic circuit or batteries , the squad handed over the packet to marshals, who informed the chief minister's security personnel and cops. The packet found in the   was sent for forensic examination on Wednesday . On Friday morning, the findings confirmed the substance was PETN. Speaking in the House, chief minister   said it was “like a terror plot“.
 
 
 
 
 The explosive, belonging to the nitroglycerin and nitrocellulose chemical family, is believed to have been used in the blast outside the Delhi high court in 2011, and is a favourite with al-Qaida and Pakistan-based terror groups like Lashkar-e-Taiba, which is known to have used it in Jammu & Kashmir.
 
 The explosive was found underneath a seat allotted to the Samajwadi Party . If it had been triggered, it would have inflicted maximum damage on SP MLAs and could have posed a threat to the lives of the Speaker, the CM, senior ministers and MLAs attending the budget session.
 
 The revelation sent the security paraphernalia into a tizzy; security around Vidhan Bhawan was bolstered on Thursday night itself.
 
 Yogi cleared a probe by the   and also chaired a meeting with principal secretary, home, Arvind Kumar and DGP Sulkhan Singh, directing officials to review security of the assembly with more stringent access control. Besides, the security protocol of the assembly was changed, introducing several curbs.
 
 VIP culture puts security at risk
 
 Two sets of people can enter the majestic Vidhan Bhavan, the power centre of Uttar Pradesh. The first one is an authorized entry pass-holding commoner but the other is the VIP. On a working day, a commoner can enter only after showing the pass at any of the 10 gates but the VIP can vroom right in, if his SUV bears a car pass, up to the old block which houses the Council Hall. The home guards or constables on duty salute in military precision and dare not ask if the supporters packed in the VIP's car have the pass or not. On July 12, when the budget session began and the Pentaerythritol Tetranitrate (PETN) was quietly smuggled through the four layered security, one could see the VIP supporters clicking selfies amid the presence of mute spectators in khakhi (police) and white uniforms (marshals). 
 
 
