NEW DELHI: After BJP’s big victory in Uttar Pradesh with 300-plus seats in the 403-member assembly, the party’s veteran leaders are wondering how much say they will retain in ticket distribution with the leadership defining strict parameters for evaluating “winnability” in the process of candidate selection.

 The apprehension could increase as BJP has taken a bold step in announcing that it will change all sitting councillors in Delhi’s municipal elections due in April, a move intended to drastically reduce the burden of incumbency and a patchy record of the BJP-run municipal corporations.
 
 While the party leadership has not hesitated to ignore MPs and regional leaders in the matter of ticket distribution, this has not been a uniform or unvarying process.
 
 The views of MPs and leaders seen to be backing viable candidates have been heard and the nominees of organisational bosses, while pared down, have not been eliminated.
 
 But the UP victory has set alarm bells ringing across states where BJP has established leaders. 
 
 Whether it is Gujarat that goes to polls later this year or Karnataka, Rajasthan and MP, which are slated for assembly polls in 2018, BJP leaders are wary that they may be ignored when it comes to distributing tickets.
 
 Within days of the experiment having worked in UP, leaders in Delhi preparing for the MCD polls have been tasked with selecting new contestants as the party faces a triangular contest with ruling   and Congress. 
 
 Even Delhi BJP chief   is a new entrant to Delhi where BJP has had a long standing support base and leaders.
 
 Welcoming the move, Tiwary said, “With the new faces, we shall contest the civic elections with the motto of better and beautiful Delhi.”
 
 The mainstay for political leaders traditionally has been the following they command on the ground, and this domain of the old guard is getting affected by the leadership style of PM   and party chief  .
 
 While the duo tried it in other states, including Maharashtra and Haryana where it succeeded and   and Delhi where it failed, the success in UP will encourage the leadership to take this format of choosing cadres and leaders.
 
 One of the first and only complaints that could be heard in whispers across the BJP’s UP unit before the assembly polls was that “there has been some goof up with ticket distribution”. 
 
 With the sidelining of veterans and their followers working in UP, the system in the party is turning into a much more centralised one. A party insider said that by 2019, the country should directly vote for Modi and his politics and policies, rather than go through local leaders.
 
