Panaji: Legendary   Vamona Navelcar may be known for his breathtaking artworks, but his personal life was rife with trials and tribulations. Unheard stories such as these, are presently being documented by young filmmakers, Ronak Kamat and Ashley Fernandes, for a three-hour-long film.

 “He is an artist of three continents. He was born in Asia (India), received a scholarship to study in Europe (Portugal) and taught art in Africa (Mozambique). His experiences in these places pour out into his paintings. He’s not only had an illustrious career as an artist but has a story that needs to be told,” Kamat said.
 
 With no background in art, both, Fernandes and Kamat, initially found it difficult to absorb the vastness of information Navelcar had to share. 
 
 Frequent consultations with established artists and art enthusiasts, and correspondence with Navelcar’s students have helped bridge that gap.
 
 “Every time we meet him, we get ten more leads to the story. There have been so many people he has met during his lifetime and with each story, he transports us to a different dimension. There is so much content,” Fernandes said.
 
 “There are Facebook groups wherein people from Africa still talk about Navelcar’s works and the influence he has had on them as a teacher. This is very unusual, considering that he left that part of the world over 30 years ago. It goes to show that the greatness of this man has transcended time and geographical borders,” he said.
 
 The duo has currently shot about eight hours of footage, which constitutes 25 minutes of their film. The octogenarian, however, has a lot more to share. 
 
 Not many know that Navelcar served in prison for over 80 days while he was teaching in Mozambique. The pain and loneliness was an experience that influenced his paintings back then. Years later, he was travelling in a train in India with about 40-50 portraits, all of which were stolen when he took a brief bathroom break.
 
 “He has braved such painful situations and continues to paint like there’s no tomorrow. Many know the artist, few know the man. It is that man who we want the world to see through our film,” Kamat said.
 
 The duo intend to release the film at festivals across the globe once it’s ready. The first cut was featured at the Great Goan Art Festival, in Panaji, on Monday.
 
 
