It’s sad, so sad, Why can’t we talk it over?, Oh it seems to me... That   seems to be the hardest word

 In the mid-1970s, when Elton John sang this song, “sorry” didn’t come easy to most of us. That was the Golden Age of Rock’n’Roll and a bad attitude was considered ‘cool’. Times have changed. In the age of social media goof-ups, and trolls, sorry comes at the drop of a hat, especially from public figures. One would’ve thought it was a good thing… except that when you keep saying sorry for the smallest to the most unforgiving things, the word loses its weight. 
 
 
 
 
 “Saying sorry without meaning it is actually worse than not saying sorry,” says Dr Nimisha Kumar, an expert of Cognitive Behaviour Therapy. Says image consultant Dilip Cherian, “A world where communication is instantaneous and widespread, it is easy to offend someone who thinks or believes differently. A misstatement can gain a momentum of its own, eclipsing all good intentions. But given the spate of public   one comes across, the apology may be losing its value or meaning.” 
 It’s only in the rare instances of sincere regret that an apology is effective. Often, we see a public apology being offered when there is no alternative. Like director Karan Johar and actors, Saif Ali Khan and Varun Dhawan did, after facing a furious backlash for taking potshots at Kangana Ranaut at an awards ceremony recently. Johar tweeted: “What we said was meant to be a joke, which I think has been misplaced, misunderstood and I think it went wrong. I regret it.”
 
 
 
 Apologies, these days, are more about retractions and less about any real remorse. Social media platforms are an echo chamber in which every offence, real or perceived, large or small, is amplified and played out until the apology becomes meaningless and ineffective. 
 How can we ensure we are saying sorry, and meaning it, and then taking stock of our mistakes? Dr Beth Polin, co-author of The Art of the Apology defines an apology as a statement which includes one or more of six components: An expression of regret – usually the actual “I’m sorry”; an explanation (but not a justification); an acknowledgment of responsibility; a declaration of repentance; an offer of repair; request for forgiveness.
 Amy Ebesu Hubbard, professor of communicology at the University of Hawaii says, “Apology also serves as a launching pad for more elaborate conversations and easing tensions.”
 
 
 
 Psychology Today wrote about a research that examined how apology works on the human mind. American psychologist Michael E. McCullough, who led the study, concluded that an act of seeking forgiveness rises from a place of empathy. They said that people find it easy to forgive an apologetic wrongdoer because “apology and confession increase empathy, which heightens the ability to forgive”. 
  This festive season don’t just celebrate, but contemplate. Use this time to take stock of your behaviour, and make amends (if needed), or try to learn how to make amends – the right way.
 
 
 
 1 The best apologies are short and sweet. Give explanation, but not a justification. 
 2 Most-valued phrases in relationships: ‘Do you forgive me?’ or ‘Please forgive me’. 
 3 Half-hearted apology is offensive and does more harm. Be sincere.
 4 Make the first move. A simple and genuine ‘I’m sorry’ is only a good first step but follow up with a concrete plan of action.
 
 Oxford Dictionaries’ recently added the word ‘non-apology’, a sort of apology without acknowledgement of responsibility or regret
 
 
 
