MEERUT: In a major crackdown ahead of the  , police claimed to have seized a huge cache of   — 203 rifles and pistols— and raw material for manufacturing nearly 500 more arms from three firearm manufacturing units in   on Friday morning.
 
  In addition, a weapon manufacturing unit was raided in Kandhla on Thursday, and four pistols and several half-made pistols were seized.
  
  Earlier, both Kairana and Kandhla had hit headlines in June last when BJP MP Hukum Singh alleged that 346 Hindu families were forced to migrate from Kairana following atrocities from “one particular community”.
  
  Police sources said raids in Kairana were conducted following a tip-off about the presence of arms dealers in the area. When police tried to apprehend the dealers a gun battle ensued, but police managed to arrest one, while six others fled. However, no injury was reported in the encounter.
  
  Divulging details, Shamli superintendent of police Ajay Pal Sharma said, “We seized   from containers and boxes kept in two cars and have arrested one person, while police are looking out for others.”
  
  “These people were supplying these weapons to some gangs in the region. Additionally, there were three factories, where they were manufacturing weapons. We seized raw material for the manufacture of more than 500 arms from those factories,” said the SP.
  
  The weapons seizure a major step towards maintaining law and order in this sensitive region in the poll-bound state. “It can be said that we have directly saved the lives of at least 200 people. The weapons could have been used by anti-social elements to disturb peace in the region. We are targeting manufacturing units so that weapons could not be delivered to gangsters and fringe elements,” the SP added.
  
  Security in Kairana and Kandhla in Shamli district, which are close to Muzaffarnagar, has been a major concern for the police department ahead of the elections and several units of paramilitary forces have also been deployed to strengthen the security net.
  
  Shamli district magistrate Sujeet Kumar said, “These regions of western Uttar Pradesh are communally sensitive, so we remain extra watchful. With polls round the corner, we have increased patrolling. Even paramilitary units are patrolling the area regularly. The weapons seizure itself shows that we are extremely vigilant and strict, and will ensure that law and order situation is not vitiated.”
