NOIDA: A businessman, who runs a manufacturing unit of cleaning chemicals in Noida, recently received an   letter through  , apparently sent by a notorious gangster, demanding Rs 50 lakh.

 The “well-drafted” letter, written in rather decent language and showing proper courtesies to the businessman, carried the name of gangster Ajeet Singh, alias Happu, who carries a reward of Rs 50,000 on his head, as the undersigned.
 
 However, police are not ruling out possible involvement of business rivals and relatives of the businessman in this case.
 
 The businessman (whose name is withheld due to security reasons), who runs a factory of chemicals used for housekeeping, kitchen care, toilets etc. in Noida’s Sector 63 with a trading office in Gurgaon too, received a sped post on September 14. The envelope contained a two-and-a-half-page handwritten letter in Hindi. To start with, the undersigned, Happu, greeted him as “Ji” and asked about his well-being before asking him to shift his business out of Noida and leave his Raj Nagar Extension home in Ghaziabad.
 
 The gangster then demanded Rs 50 lakh and asked him to hand over the money near Masoori area in Ghaziabad on September 24. Also, he claimed that he was aware of the businessman and his family members’ movements and threatened to harm them if his demands were not met.
 
 Scared, the businessman and his family spent a few days mulling over what to do, before approaching police on Sunday for help.
 
 A case of extortion under Section 384 of the   has been registered at Phase-3 police station. SHO Akhilesh Pradhan said police were investigating the case.
 
 Talking about the gangster, a senior police officer said Happu, originally from Babli village of Baghpat, was a member of   gang and was wanted in several cases of abduction, extortion and murder, among others, by Bagpath, Meerut, Noida and Ghaziabad police.
 
 Happu and two other accomplices were named as accused for the killing of Krishna Pal, a constable with Ghaziabad police, in 2013. He is apparently in possession of a stolen AK-47, which he found after killing his gang leader a few years ago.
 
 Police and other agencies have been trying to hunt him down for several months now. Recently, Baghpat police believed to have used drones to trace him in the jungles of Bamnauli, where he was hiding. However, he managed to escape before a police team reached the spot.
 
 Another police officer, investigating the case, said the letter was decently drafted, using words which were unlike of those generally used by criminals and gangsters. “It is not clear if this letter was sent by Happu or someone else used his name to scare the businessman. Happu is absconding for several months to escape arrest,” said the officer.
 
 Further, during the preliminary investigation, it has been found that the businessman, who is originally from Hapur, had been fighting a legal battle against his relatives over ancestral property. Thus, police are also investigating the role of his relatives, apart from business rivals, if any, in this case.
 
 
