AHMEDABAD: The   has given legal sanction to the marriage of a minor   who had eloped with her 21-year-old lover, citing an earlier judgment enabling a Muslim girl to marry when she reaches puberty. But the couple's union has been jeopardized by their desperate attempt to fortify their case.

 Apart from solemnizing their nikah, the couple had also signed a livein relationship “contract“.This bid to secure double protection has put in trouble all who helped the couple.
 
 So while the youth got the high court's protection when the girl's father alleged abduction, the court now has directed the police to investigate charges against the youth after the girl's father moved the HC, demanding action against those involved in the preparation and notarizing of the contract. The girl's father has contended that a minor cannot legally enter into any agreement.
 
  and the girl from Jamnagar eloped on November 9. The girl's father lodged a complaint against Ganji for abducting the girl. Ganji moved the HC to have the charges quashed on the grounds that an HC order permits a Muslim girl to marry , if she so chooses, when she reaches puberty. He provided the nikahnama to substantiate his case.Justice J B Pardiwala, who had passed the judgment in question, was hearing the quashing plea. On November 22, he directed cops not to arrest the youth, but allowed the investigation to proceed.He ordered cops to file a chargesheet if an offence was made out.
 
 To become doubly sure that the family members do not separate them, the couple had sent a copy of their live-in relationship agreement to the girl's family. This was accompanied with a notarized affidavit of the girl stating that she had willingly joined the youth. On basis of this agreement, the girl's father approached cops once again and demanded action against those who helped her prepare the documents. Cops gave him the cold shoulder.This brought him before the HC. This case too came up for hearing before Justice Pardiwala, who pulled up the police for lethargy and directed them to start an investigation against those involved in helping the minor girl prepare the affidavit and the contract.
 
