CHANDIGARH: There's a sickness in the air in the emergency ward of the prestigious Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh.And the afflicted -and those most in danger of affliction -are the doctors studying and working there for an MD. There's a sickness in the air in the emergency ward of the prestigious Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research here. And the afflicted -and those most in danger of affliction -are the doctors studying and working there for an MD.
Dr Harish  's big battle was not only about saving the lives of others but also battling tuberculosis of the bone, contracted while training in the emergency ward. It has affected his studies and his attendance. Dr Kumar, one of the many victims of an overcrowded and badly designed emergency ward at the PGIMER, is now finding it dif ficult to re gain his health.
 
 Grabbing a sandwich hurriedly bought from the PGIMER doctors' canteen, by no means a healthy food corner, Dr Yashwinder runs to the emergency. He works there for over 18 hours at a stretch. Daily .
 
 “We often come in contact with patients suffering from various infections. But TB becomes active when there is no proper diet and the air quality is poor. I contracted pulmonary TB after a year while working in the emergency . I had no time for proper meals,“ Dr Yashwinder, a senior resident in the department of medicine, said.
 
 According to the information provided by the  , around 15 doctors from different departments in a threeyear academic session have TB, and around 25 are in counselling for depression. The figures are almost the same for subsequent batches after every three years. Due to the attached stigma, it is believed that the actual figures are greater than what have been revealed by the Association of Resident Doctors. Absence of proper food and drinking water fa cilities are among the many reasons tuberculosis (TB) takes hold in doctors at PGIMER. A study published in the prestigious journal PLOS ONE last year found 43 per cent of India's TB healthcare workers suffer from latent tuberculosis infection, an inactive and non-communicable infection that carries a lifetime risk of progressing.
 
 The Association of Resident Doctors had told higher administrative authorities at PGIMER that tremendous stress, overcrowding and an improperly ventilated emergency were the reasons why doctors contracted these infections. “In the absence of good food in the canteen, adequate time to even grab a bite and proper ventilation in the emergency , our resident doctors have contracted TB. The officials have been informed,“ said Dr Seran Reddy , president of the Association of Resident Doctors at PGIMER. PGIMER, the only reput ed tertiary hospital catering to Chandigarh and the states of Punjab, Haryana and  , sees over 7,000 OPD patients a day . Out of approximately 1,700 doctors, 1,200 are junior and senior residents. The majority suffer from TB, while the rest are often diagnosed with depression and stomach ulcers.
 
 The emergency ward is heavily overcrowded -a bed strength of 100 has, at any given point, an occupancy of 200%: the risk of TB is high. To make matters worse, there are patients with various infections in close contact with doctors. This is an occupational hazard, but poor ventilation and low immunity compound the dangers.
 
 “There is a canteen for doctors in Nehru Hospital which serves stale snacks. We find it tough to get time to eat healthy food or even drink clean water as there are no proper filters,“ said Dr Reddy .
 
 Various forms of extrapulmonary TB, like Pott's disease (TB of the spine) and TB lymphadenitis (TB of the lymph nodes), have been seen among residents. TB is airborne and can be an occupational hazard for health workers in poorly ventilated conditions.
 
 “Those who are under a lot of stress and have low immunity can easily catch the infection. But there is a lot of overcrowding in the emergency and the OPDs. In the absence of adequate ventilation, such airborne infections are easily transmitted,“ said  , former head of the department of pulmonary medicine at PGIMER.
 
 Since 2012, around 40 resident doctors have contracted TB. Most of them had been posted to the PGI emergency at some point. “We are aware of the problem. Also, it is not necessary that those who have TB have got it from the hospital surroundings. However, we are working on improving the facilities,“ said Dr Subash Varma, officiating director, PGIMER.
 
