NEW DELHI:   on Tuesday initiated a probe against health minister   for alleged money   through his shell companies. 

 CBI sources said a preliminary enquiry has been registered against Jain to probe allegations of corruption and money laundering in 2010-12 and 2015-16 of over Rs 16 crore. 
 
 The minister is already under CBI’s scanner in two cases -- one related to appointment of his daughter Soumya Jain as advisor in Delhi government’s health department and another related to appointment of his officer-on-special duty (OSD) – Dr Nikunj Aggarwal.
 
 Responding to the development, Jain said he was “absolutely clean” and the inquiries being initiated against him were “politically motivated”. He these actions were resorted to by “political opponents” every time an election was near. “Similar developments took place before the Punjab elections and now with civic polls round the corner, this has happened. So, this is nothing but all politics,” Jain said. 
 
 Jain added that he was not scared of being arrested. Jain said the inquiries had been initiated against him because he was doing good work in health sector, especially facilities for the poor. 
 
 Ahead of MCD polls, the CBI probe is expected to give more ammunition to the opposition, which has accused the ruling AAP of failing to deliver on its main plank of fighting corruption after the Shunglu committee pointed out “gross abuse of power” by the   government in its report. Jain had dismissed the allegations after ED action last month, attaching properties linked to him. 
 
 CBI sources said the PE registered on Tuesday pertains to Jain being allegedly involved in laundering Rs 4.63 crore while being a public servant during 2015-16 through three companies – Prayas Info Solutions Private Limited, Akichand Developers Private Limited and Managalyatan Projects Private Limited.
 
 He allegedly laundered money worth Rs 11.78 crore during 2010-12 through these three companies and another company -   pvt limited. During this period, he was a private person and he had just joined AAP. 
 
 All four companies were alleged to be controlled by Jain, sources said. 
 
 CBI sources said money was given in cash by Jain through his employees and associates to Kolkata-based data entry operators of shell companies for providing accommodation entries in his favour. Entry operators are agents who launder and route black money using normal banking channels without coming under the scanner of banking regulators.
 
 It alleged that money was routed by the entry operators in the form of investment in shares of Prayas, Akinchand and Managalyatan.
 
 It is alleged that Jain had “technically” resigned from the directorship of these companies just before the 2013 assembly elections in Delhi. 
 
 The information received by CBI suggests that shares worth Rs 10 were shown to be purchased for Rs 590 by the entry operators.
 
 “The money so recovered back in the form of investment in shares was used by Jain for buying agricultural land worth Rs 27.69 crore in Delhi in the name of his companies,” said CBI. Officials said Jain allegedly used his influence and was trying to get the areas where he purchased land declared as residential areas by the revenue department to make financial gains. CBI sources said the case was referred to the agency by the I-T department under the new Benami Transactions Prohibitions Act.
 
 
