PUNE: The much-awaited   is all set to see the light of day with the   (PMC) allocating Rs 1 crore towards swift execution of the project.

 Former deputy chief minister  , who presided over its official inauguration near Kumar Prithvi on Monday, pledged to give Rs 3 crore for the project. The funds would come from the assembly and parliament funds of his party men, he said.
 
 Mayor Prashant Jagtap in his speech said they had to face hidden opposition from vested parties who wanted to stall the programme.
 
 Pawar said the project would go ahead not withstanding any pressure from any quarters. He said Nationalist   (NCP), under the guidance of senior leader  , was committed to the cause of muslims, dalits, minorities and tribals. The communities will progress if they are given reservation in education and jobs, and allowed to enter mainstream competition, he said.
 
 PMC would ensure the project is completed in time and the benefit passes on to pilgrims, he added. 
 
 Pawar greeted the muslims who were present at the inauguration in a traditional manner. They, in turn, offered him a sherwani cap, shawl, memento and bouquet of flowers.
 
 PMC corporator Raees Sundke said the construction was initially set to take place in Koregaon Park in 2007, but he managed to convince the corporation and got the project shifted to Kondhwa as it is thickly populated by muslims.
 
 “The state-of-the-art building would be constructed on 10,000sqft of land. The project would house 1,500 pilgrims and will include accommodation and facilities on par with international standards,” Sundke said, adding that work order was issued and construction would start in the next few days. 
 
 The project is expected to be completed in two years. 
 
 MP Vandana Chavan said the project could not commence in Koregaon Park because the place was small and a decision to construct Haj House at a bigger space in Kondhwa was taken. She suggested that direct flights should be begun from Pune airport to Saudi Arabia for the benefit of pilgrims in days to come.
 
 Social activist and lawyer Salim Shaikh, working for the cause of pilgrims, said,“The initiative of constructing Haj House is good, but it should be constructed in shortest possible time and should not get entangled in court battles. The proposal to start direct flights for the convenience of ‘hajis’ from Pune airport is pending before the central government and it should be given green signal. After the project is completed, PMC should take measures to maintain the premises, provide security and ensure the premises are not misused.”
 
 Businessman Ikram Khan said, “Muslims from lower middle class residing in Western Maharashtra faced difficulties in getting accommodation at Haj House in Mumbai. If the project is completed, the pilgrims can stay here and leave for Mumbai. We also have plans to give training on how to perform Umrah and Haj.”
 
 Haji Gafur Pathan said politicians have neglected Kondhwa for many years. “Now since the Haj House is coming, we want the PMC to improve infrastructure like roads, drainage system and provide water supply to local residents and improve street lights in the area,” Pathan said.
 
