Chandigarh: The cash-strapped public sector aviation giant, Air India, is all set to launch a direct flight from Chandigarh to Bangkok in the winter.

 According to information provided by the airlines before the Punjab and Haryana high court during the resumed hearing of a petition regarding the delay in launching of international flights from the Chandigarh airport, Air India would launch the flight in November. It would operate for four days in a week.
 
 The Chandigarh-Bangkok flight was first announced on September 15, 2016, by Air India chairman and managing director Ashwani Lohani during the launching of the first flight by Air India Express, a subsidiary of Air India, from Chandigarh to Sharjah.
 
 Earlier, the flight was to start in April but was deferred for May because of delay in procuring new aircraft.
 
 On Monday, a division bench headed by Justice S S Saron also asked Air India to submit the status report on restarting the Amritsar-Birmingham flight by July 18.
 
 Assistant solicitor general Chetan Mittal informed the court that work for re-carpeting/resurfacing of the airport has been allotted to a private company and the company has started installing its plant to begin the work.
 
 Mittal also apprised the court that a meeting all stakeholders, including the ministry of defence, the ministry of civil aviation and others would be held in the first week of August to deliberate upon the issues related to airport and status report in this regard would be filed before the high court by August 16.
 
 The issues, which would be discussed in the meeting includes the acquisition of land for parallel taxi track, resurfacing of the runway, hub-spoke flight policy and any other issue.
 
 The matter is pending before the high court in the wake of a petition filed by Mohali Industries Association against non-availability of facilities at the airport and delay in launching of international flights.
 
 Box:
 
 Underpass survey
 
 The Haryana government told the high court that an amount of Rs 22 lakh has been paid to the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) for a survey regarding construction of an underpass from national highway 21 to international airport area. The underpass would provide direct access to passengers coming from Haryana side to the airport. However, the machinery for conducting the survey would be allowed to enter the airport only after getting clearance from the IAF headquarters.
 
 
