INDORE: In the late 1990s and 2000s, it was the pair of   and   that troubled the Australians. In 2010s, R Ashwin and   spun the web around them. Now, the wrist spin duo of Kuldeep Yadav and   is all over the Australians in the ongoing ODI series.

 Australian vice-captain   accepts that the visitors are still figuring out ways to counter the Indian spinners. “I find that the players can read them but there’s the odd one or two that you probably can’t see the seam and the players then react off the wicket. That’s probably the odd one here or there,” Warner said at a press conference on Saturday.
 
 “At the end of the day, you’ve got to have a game plan against spin - whether or not to hit down the ground or sweep the ball. When you’re losing wickets in clumps you become tentative, so you have to apply that pressure. If you get off to a good start and the spinners come on it’s a different game then. It’s about the tempo of the game. I feel if we’re in a different position, you’re going to see a different mode against the spinners or a different tempo,” he added.
 
 Warner admitted that it was tough for Aussies to counter the spin, as they have grown up on fast and bouncy wickets. “It’s very hard to adapt. But when you keep coming back (in India) there’s no excuse, you should know the conditions very well. Having said that, when you are out there, it’s totally different. You become tentative.
 
 “The game situation dictates. If you lose a couple of wickets, what do you do? Do you use your feet? Do you play with one stride? They’re the things that you have to work out and adapt when you’re here. As a senior player coming back to these situations, you should know your game well enough - in one-day format - to get off strike, to hit the guys on the boundaries,” the southpaw said.
 
 Australia are not the same team they used to be in 90s and 2000s. Their performance, after the greats retired, has been up and down, though they are the world champions. “I think what you have to realize is, we’re world champions with a different team. The team that we had when we won the cup is totally different. It’s a totally different dynamic. The team has been probably chopped and changed a little bit since then. We’re trying to work towards the next World Cup. We’ve got to find a stable team and one to work out what’s going to be the best to defend the World Cup. At the moment it’s a work in progress,” he said.
 
