Pune: Housing societies and old houses in   areas could soon avail of amenities such as roads, drainage and water as elected members in the civic body want to utilize their funds towards for such facilities.

 Congress’s Arvind Shinde, along with fellow corporator Avinash Bagwe, has submitted a proposal to the civic body’s standing committee, seeking permission to use their funds in societies and gaothan areas.
 
 “There are hundreds of housing societies, especially old ones, with thousands of dwellers. But the civic rules do not allow the corporators to use their funds for providing such amenities,” Shinde told TOI.
 
 “Many of these societies are unregistered, while there are disputes in several of these units. The housing societies are not capable of generating funds to create amenities such as internal roads and drains,” he said.
 
 Shinde said many old societies do not have a big base of members and, as a result, the monthly maintenance charges are insufficient. “People living in these housing societies are tax payers and have every right to enjoy the basic amenities. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is compelling these societies to follow all development control rules. Similarly, the civic body must provide basic amenities on the society premises and in the gaothan areas where many old constructions stand in a dilapidated condition” he added.
 
 Standing committee chairman Murali Mohal said the proposal has been forwarded to the civic administration for remarks.
 
 “There are a lot of issues, such as insufficient illumination, leaks in drains and need for roads. But the corporators don’t take care of these, saying the civic body doesn’t sanction funds for such works. The housing societies have to seek favours from the corporators during elections to get such projects done” said Asha Kumbhar, member of a housing society in Katraj. 
 
 Suhas Patwardhan, chairman of the   said, “ The PMC must not impose any charges on housing societies for any development project.”
 
 
