JAIPUR: An in-depth and prolonged reply by labour minister Jaswant Yadav to a question related to child labourers did not go down well with the Opposition, who staged a walkout in the question hour. The   accused the state government of deliberately avoiding discussion of gaushalas and cow conservation.

 State minister Jaswant Yadav, who was replying to a query raised by Tarun Rai Kaga, went on to read his reply for over 20 minutes, amidst chaos and demand that the answer be tabled and considered read. “I have been asked a question and I am giving a proper, detailed reply. There are five departments involved in rescue and rehabilitation of child labourers and I had to compile information from all the related departments,” insisted Yadav, adding that it was his responsibility to give a detailed reply.
 
 The opposition benches raised a protest alleging that the state government was avoiding a discussion of gaushalas and cow conservation, a question which was listed next.   MLA Banwari Lal Singhal, who was to raise the issue, demanded that this question along with the one on cow conservation be deferred. As chaos continued, Singhal left the house.
 
 The opposition members and senior   urged Speaker Kailash Meghwal to intervene but Meghwal ruled that the minister had a right to reply. National People’s Party MLA Kirorilal Meena, who just a day ahead had displayed his anger over ‘unnecessary discussion’ during the question hour, requested the Speaker to fix a time limit for each question and answer.
 
 “In the Lok Sabha, an answer, if too lengthy, is tabled and considered read. The same procedure is followed here,” he argued. Upset with the opposition, Meghwal asked the legislators to fix the time. As no suggestions came, the labour minister continued to read his reply.
 
 This led to an uproar among the opposition benches. “The minister is deliberately stretching the answer to avoid question which is to be raised by Singhal. You (state government) killed cows and are now turning this into a joke,’’ said  . When the Speaker did not intervene, the entire Opposition walked out of the house just four minutes before the question hour was about to end.
 
 The question hour on Friday had also begun on a chaotic note as health minister   was not present in the house and a question related to his department had been called. The Opposition demanded that the Speaker should take action even as the minister rushed into the House. The Speaker paid no heed to the Opposition’s demand.
 
 
