NAGPUR: Dissolution of   (NIT) will help the ruling   in the February civic elections. The decision was good and will bring a respite for the citizens, was the general opinion of Nagpurians.

 As Nagpur mayor in late 1990s, Maharashtra chief minster Devendra Fadnavis had demanded abolition of NIT. Though the then chief minister Manohar Joshi agreed in principle, the decision was never implemented. But Fadnavis fulfilled his dream and this decision will give an edge to the ruling party in this election, said activist T H Naidu.
 
 He pointed out that as a civic agency and a planning authority, NIT was supposed to help create a modern, vibrant city. “Instead, only has become a facilitator for the chaos and lawlessness in the city and that allowed flouting of rules with impunity,” alleged Pravin Sakhare, a resident of Ganpati Nagar.
 
 From poor roads to water supply problems to sanitary woes, layouts under NIT were and continued to be plagued by numerous problems.
 
 Social activists too feel that the move will help the ruling party. It may help to some extent to the ruling party, said   activist Jammu Anand. “By and large people were unhappy with the NIT’s functioning and its dissolution was a long pending demand. But the government’s in principle decision to dissolve it was to play with the emotions of the citizens,” he pointed out. To substantiate his claim, Anand cited Fadnavis’s comment that the NIT will remain functional by taking care of NMRDA ( ). In a way, NIT is not being dissolved but its jurisdiction will change, he said.
 
 “Before taking the decision the government has already changed the land use of many public utility lands in east Nagpur to residential purposes to help the builder lobby. This shows the intention of the government not to bring relief to the citizens,” he said adding that the major question that the NMC is already reeling under financial crisis as it has a liability of more than Rs900 crore.
 
 Biswajeet Karmakar, a resident of Dixit Nagar too blamed NIT for the mess of haphazard development. “Our locality, which comes under NIT, lacks many basic civic amenities including public utility land,” he pointed out. But, now our corporator Savita Sangole claimed that she would develop the PU land. According to him, the move by the state government would definitely give the ruling party an edge as citizens hope NMC is doing a much better development than NIT.
 
 Even corporators, who represent NIT areas too experienced various limitations while carrying out developmental works. “We were barred from spending our funds in NIT areas as there was some rules. It resulted into very slow development in these areas. It forced elected representatives to face public wrath,” said independent corporator Savita Sangole. She claimed that NIT had done nothing to upgrade the civic amenities. Even residents of NIT layouts said no efforts were made to develop their areas. Since decades, open drains have been running through mud roads. Water shortage is the most pressing problem faced by some layouts.
 
 Civic activist Naidu cited examples where the NIT had turned a blind eye towards illegal construction by developers. “The latest examples are of N Kumar Mall that was allowed to violate several rules and illegal construction at Telangkhedi Lake,” he alleged. 
 
 “Can we trust the NIT to now ‘develop’ entire Nagpur metro region, he asks. Going by the past experience, NIT would make a mess of it too, Naidu claimed and supported the decision of the government to scrap NIT which, according to him, was neither improving Nagpur nor could be trusted with development,” Siddarth Purandare a resident of Pardi. When Congress was in power in the state, it had failed to dissolve the NIT and now the move by the   will certainly benefit the citizens, he added. 
 
 According to residents, NIT had no more remained an improvement trust. It is functioning like any corporate house working for builders and is a hub of corruption, they said, adding the agency was being used as a rehabilitation centres for disgruntled political leaders.
 
 
