TAWANG:   the Dalai Lama today wrapped up his four-day visit to   by giving a talk on " ".

 With Arunachal Pradesh Chief Minister Pema Khandu sitting by his side, the Dalai Lama told his audience at Kalawangpo Hall that secular ethics was the only way to bring lasting peace and happiness in the world.
 
 "Peace in the post World War II world is built on fear, but genuine peace can only come through inner peace," he said and stressed that inner peace could come through training of the mind.
 
 The exiled Tibetan leader also emphasised that secular ethics must be achieved through education and not just prayers or faith.
 
 Asked by a member of the audience what would be the state of secular ethics when the world was going through a clash of beliefs, the Dalai Lama said, "Nothing can destroy each other's beliefs. So the best way is to make peace and live together. A terrorist killing in the name of religion can never be true to his faith."
 
 However, efforts must be made to reach out to them as they are not born terrorists but circumstances had made them so," the Nobel laureate observed.
 
 He emphasised on education as the key to bring in human understanding and values.
 
 The Dalai Lama lamented that the western nations were not helping understand the true values of education, due to which everyone is after material pursuit bringing untold human suffering.
 
 To a question on rituals becoming more important than wisdom or philosophy, his Holiness declared that rituals were not important and emphasised on the use of intelligence to transform emotions.
 
 Earlier, the Dalai Lama released a book titled "Ocean and Blue Mountains" published by the department of Karmik and Adhyatmik Affairs in the presence of the chief minister and other dignitaries.
 
 The book title refers 'Ocean' as His Holiness and 'Blue Mountains' as the people of Arunachal Pradesh and is a collection of memoirs of the special bond shared between the two.
 
 He also released a book titled - "Crossing of the Frontiers" describing his exile route from   to India, published by Losel Nyinje Charitable Society and Monyul Social Welfare Association.
 
 Earlier in the day, the Dalai Lama gave his last sermon to the devotees at the Yid GaChosin monastery ground.
 
 He distributed one lakh saplings to be planted in and around Tawang. On his way to the Kalawangpo Hall, His Holiness consecrated the statue of Lord Buddha at the heart of Tawang township. 
 
