NAGPUR: Even though there is no  , Nagpurians had to go without power for hours many times this summer. While in some cases the reason for the breakdown was a technical one, in most cases some or the other agency damaged the cables while digging up the road leading to power failure.

 According to   and SNDL there have been at least 50 such major incidents this summer. Contractors of many agencies have damaged power cables. They include Mahametro, OCW, Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), telecom companies, etc.
 
 Cable damage led to breakdown in Ram Nagar on May 2, in Hill Top on May 5, in Raj Nagar and   on May 10. The list is endless. Many times the cables have been damaged at night leading to a sleepless night for thousands of citizens.
 
 The city police are equally callous towards these breakdowns. In spite of requests from senior MSEDCL officials, they have refused to register cognizable offences against the guilty contractors. “Due to this, the concerned agencies and their contractors do not take damaging of cables seriously. They only pay the restoration charges and get away with it,” an MSEDCL official told TOI.
 
 Chandrashekhar Bawankule, guardian and energy minister, had instructed agencies that dig up the roads to submit their plans to MSEDCL. This would have reduced incidents of cable damage. However, none of the agencies complied with the minister’s directive. In April Bawankule asked MSEDCL to share its cable layout plans with these agencies. In spite of having these plans, the agencies go on damaging the cables.
 
 “There should be a coordination committee of all agencies wherein future road digging plans of all agencies are known to us. This committee should meet regularly,” the MSEDCL official said.
 
 These agencies are damaging only power cables. Recently, about 15,000 landline connections of BSNL went dead when Mahametro damaged its cable. The concerned agencies, however, refused to accept responsibility for cable damage leading to power breakdowns.
 
 Shirish Apte, deputy general manager (public relations) of Mahametro, said that his agency only starts work after getting the cable layout plan from power companies. “We regularly hold talks with them to prevent such incidents,” he told TOI. Sachin Dravekar, spokesperson of OCW, claimed that while his company had damaged power cables in 2012, no such incident had taken place in last six months.
 
 NMC executive engineer Narendra Borkar said cement road work was never started before submitting a letter to power companies. “Very few cable damages have taken place due to NMC,” he said. On refusal of police to register cognizable offences for cable damage, commissioner of police K Venkatesh said, “It is not appropriate for the police to register cognizable offences in such cases. MSEDCL and SNDL have other means of grievance redressal.”
 
