BENGALURU: “The cockpit is my home. As soon as I enter the cockpit, I feel a sense of calm. It’s therapeutic,” says Jez Hopkinson, lead pilot of the Yakovlevs, UK’s premier aerobatic display team that flies Russian-made Yaks.

 Explaining that it’s briefing, debriefing, organizing air traffic and getting the aircraft ready for the flight that causes stress, and not flying, the 56-year-old former Royal Air Force pilot says, “I have flown more than I have driven.” Hopkinson has flown for over 14,000 hours.
 
 Yakovlevs, known for their breathtaking manoeuvers, have been enthralling people across the world for the past 18 years. On their second visit to the aero show in Bengaluru, this time they are flying three Yaks (a twin-seater YAK 52 and two single-seater YAK 50).
 
 Bengaluru heat, however, is not something they are used to. “The cockpit gets really hot so we have shorter duration shows of 5, 10, 15 and 18 minutes. There is not much air blowing over the wings so the lift is less. This makes us change formations by expanding the patterns of the ships, manoeuvers are also changed,” says Hopkinson.
 
 The team, with five pilots including a stand-by and three engineers, has four members from the Royal Air Force and one from the Royal Navy, a French military pilot, an Irish, a Lithuanian and a Russian. Two of the pilots are civilians. “We receive hundreds of applications from pilots wanting to fly with our crew but we have a rigorous induction process,” Hopkinson adds.
 
 “Flying around  , we see thousands of people outside the air base looking up in the sky. We do a full video of them and I’m sure people living in highrises and on hilltops are enjoying the best view,” he laughs.
 
 “We are going to China in April to participate in the Formation Aerobatic Championship 2017 where we will showcase sky typing and perform with six planes — a mix of Yak 50s and Super Yak 52 aircraft,” says Hopkinson.
 
 Expressing the team’s love for India and its people, Hopkinson says, “When we landed at Bengaluru airport at 5am on February 3, the car from the hotel had not still arrived. I took out my wallet that had Rs 10,000 in old notes. I asked a cabbie to take us to the hotel but he said he cannot take the old notes. Then someone from JW Marriot helped us exchange the cash and even took us in a car and gave me Rs 120 for the toll. I don’t know if that would happen in any other country. The reason Indians are so successful is because they are so generous,” Hopkinson signed off.
 
