INDORE: Madhya Pradesh Anti-Terrorism Squad ( ) detained five suspects in connection to the twin blasts in Bhopal-Ujjain passenger train that left nine persons injured, at Jabri station in Shajapur district on Tuesday.

 One of those detained is believed to be a courier boy, transporting explosives in two bags. Investigators were trying to ascertain how the blasts were triggered.
 
 “Some suspects have been detained for questioning in the train blasts. There are some radical elements who are involved in the entire incident, but we cannot say who was behind it," director-general of police   told TOI.
 
 Police got a breakthrough when one of the victims of the blasts was interrogated about the luggage he was carrying. What started as a casual interrogation turned serious when it was found that the two bags he was carrying were the blast source.
 
 The accused coughed up names of four others who had provided support to him in transporting the goods, Intelligence sources said. While interrogation was on, police teams sifted through CCTV grabs of people boarding the train and zoomed in on some suspects.
 
 Armed with this information, a web was laid at various exit points. Four of the suspects were spotted crossing Pipariya toll collection booth, and soon after they were nabbed. ATS officials took them to a safe house for interrogation, sources said.
 
 “While questioning those detained from Pipariya, we received some inputs that have been shared with the concerned Intelligence agencies in Uttar Pradesh," DGP Shukla said.
 
 Sources said the investigators got Information about Pakistan-sponsored terror suspects based out of Uttar Pradesh. On the basis of that information, UP police cornered a suspect on Hardoi Road in Lucknow, leading to a fierce gun-battle.
 
 The ATS has taken the five suspects to an undisclosed location in Bhopal for further interrogation. Sources said it was also ascertained whether they had any links with the banned   (SIMI) and whether the explosives were being transported as part of a revenge attack following life sentences issued to 11 SIMI leaders, including its chief  , by a special CBI court on February 27.
 
