MUMBAI:   (MSSA) officials are fortunate that there were no major injuries when a slab of concrete caved in on Tuesday, the opening day of the U-16 Division I football tournament at their grounds in CST.

 Campion (Colaba) were headed for their pre-game warm-up while the match between Don Bosco (Borivli) and Don Bosco (Matunga) was on when 15-year-old Aarzish Mugaseth suddenly found himself lying on the ground under the stands.
 
 "I was just walking when it (stands) caved in. I didn't know what happened. A couple of people helped up. I injured my knee and back. I'm just happy I was alone at the time," he told TOI after his match against St Joseph's (Wadala).
 
 O'Neill Pereira, a parent who was present at the time of the incident, said five boys had just walked past that area.
 
 "I was watching the team enter the ground when I suddenly heard a loud thud. Before I knew it, the boy (Mugaseth), a bit bewildered, was lying under the hollow stand. It could have been a lot worse had it happened ten seconds before when the rest of the team walked past that spot," he said.
 
 Though Mugaseth was limping as a result of the injury, he didn't let it hamper his performance. While his coach   suggested that he sit out the game, the 6ft 2in striker was adamant he wanted to play. His coach finally relented and it proved fruitful as he scored the opener in his side's 3-0 victory. MSSA is not new to controversies, with the dilapidated stands and poor quality of pitch often drawing flak. MSSA president Fr Jude Rodrigues said they have plans to install a proper stand, like the one at Cooperage.
 
 "I travelled to China a fortnight ago and met with people who fix the stands. I have quotations and we're in the process of finalising a deal. In two months time we should set up the stands. Apart from the stands, we're also trying to get a company to set up a huge artificial tent so we can conduct indoor games."
 
 Fr Rodrigues said he would fence off the area to where the stands caved in. "We'll get an engineer to check the structure and will cordon off the dangerous areas. There's nothing else we can do at the moment," he told TOI.
 
 In the day's big clash, Don Bosco (Matunga) blanked their namesake from Borivli by six goals. Nihal Dudwadkar and Krishna Karkera scored a brace apiece while Sherwyn D'Souza and Mannan Dang completed the rout. In the opening match of the tournament, St Mary's ICSE (Mazgaon) beat Navy Children 3-1.
 
 Results: St Mary's ICSE (Mazgaon) 3 (Makani Zaid, Amav Aswani, Rahil Chopra) bt Navy Children 1 (Darius Singh); Don Bosco (Matunga) 6 (Nihal Dudwadkar 2, Krishna Karkera 2, Mannan Dang, Sherwyn D'Souza) bt Don Bosco (Borivli) 0; Campion 3 (Aarzish Mugaseth, Pranav Bongirwar, Aryaan Majumdar) bt St. Joseph's (Wadala) 0
 
 
