HYDERABAD: Nearly 50 students staged a protest at the  , Hyderabad (JNTU-H) on Monday demanding that the Telangana State Engineering Common Entrance Test (TS-ECET) be re-conducted. 

 While the JNTU-H officials were declaring the Telangana engineering, medical and common entrance test ( ) results inside the UGC-HRDC auditorium on Monday afternoon, the TS-ECET qualified students staged a dharna outside raising slogans against the university.
 
 As many as 22,450 candidates out of the 24,458 that appeared for the TS-ECET qualified to secure a lateral entry into various courses such as BE/BTech/BPharm. Although 91.79% students qualified in the examination, many are not convinced about the results declared on May 20.
 
 The students alleged that the result was incorrect. "I attempted all the questions in the examination. But when I checked the OMR sheet, it showed that almost 60 questions were not attempted by me," said an agitated Mohammed Abiq.
 
 It may be recalled that the TS-ECET exam, conducted in the online mode on May 6, was delayed due to a technical glitch. While the exam was scheduled to begin at 2pm, it started only at 5pm at several centres.
 
 Students alleged that at certain test centres such as St Peters and Vardhaman College, among others, the examination went on till 9pm. "How can the government justify holding examinations five hours after the scheduled time while those even a minute late were not allowed to enter the exam centre?" questioned  , an TS-ECET aspirant.
 
 Many also raised concerns over the partial release of the preliminary key. "Out of the total 200 marks, answers for questions totalling only 80 marks have been released by the university. We are not sure about the answers of the other questions," said another student.
 
 Refuting the allegations, Venugopal Reddy, vice-chancellor of JNTU-H, which conducted TS-ECET on behalf of the  , told mediapersons: "There is absolutely no problems with the OMR sheet. The results are final and there will be no re-test."
 
