CHENNAI: Travel, wander and explore, the urge to live like a nomad — that’s what made this 23-year-old youngster from Chennai,  , go on a solo bike ride across the country. A ride for a couple of weeks? A month or a few? Not really. A ride that lasted one year and two months, covering every Indian state and exploring cities, towns, and villages in each of them. Nadit got back to Chennai last Thursday and is evidently delighted at what he has achieved. "I left my job and career as an engineer to follow my dream — to travel the world across the seven seas. But one step at a time. So, I decided to first complete riding across my own country. And that’s how this expedition happened," starts Nadit.

 "The ride and the bike are the tools that help me do what I love the most — travel. Meanwhile, with this ride, I hope to inspire more people to do what they truly believe in," says Nadit and thanks his dad, who first instilled an interest in him for riding. "It all started with his Bullet. Every now and then, I would ride it all the way to Vellore, where I did college, and back home to Chennai." 
 
 Nadit gives us more details about this expedition, "I had a tentative plan. I left home on July 29, 2016. I first went to Shillong from Chennai . And from there to Delhi. It was in Delhi that I decided to ride to all the states and cover every city and village in each of them. Each day, it was like get up, brush, get ready, eat, ride, explore, sleep and repeat." The distance that he covered was 44,480km. He is back home, with a bag full of good memories. "I travelled all across the country, eating local food from each place, embracing and getting enthralled by the beauty of what India had to give me, exploring and enjoying the culture, which changes not just from state to state, but for every 50 kilometres. These memories are what I have carried back home with me."
 
 On the other hand, the challenges he faced, too, are aplenty. "Unpredictable weather was the toughest thing all through the expedition. Landslides, fires, stone pelting in Jammu and Kashmir, riots and strikes in the North East, flat tires in completely isolated places, running out of petrol and supplies, leopards roaming at close quarters to my camping site... There is so much to share. I think I must write a book," he smiles. 
 
 Did he ever felt like giving up? "Never. This was the most relaxing time ever. I agree that sometimes the ride became hectic, and riding through different terrain and weather posed some difficulty. But I enjoyed every second of it, including when I met with minor accidents. Once, I saved a dog only to end up with a fracture. During the expedition, I helped many people whom I came across and vice versa. I realised that there’s insaaniyat in every single human being," signs off Nadit.
 
