MEERUT: “We will get   constructed even if we have to sacrifice our lives. If Ram Mandir is not made, we don’t have the right to live in this country,” pledged hundreds of Ram Mandir supporters as they raised their hands at the very first Ramotsava Sankalp Sabha organized by the   at   in Meerut on Sunday afternoon. The meeting which saw saffron clad ascetics,   and   supporters in attendance was addressed by VHP international general secretary Champat Rai.
 
 “All the appeals of both the parties have been submitted to Supreme Court and since Muslims have already refused an out-of-court settlement, a fair decision should be made soon. The Ram Mandir is a matter of our self-respect and we have already had out-of-court settlement talks but did not reach any conclusion.
 
 This is the reason that a case was filed. Also, because Zafaryab Jilani, convenor of the Babri Masjid Action Committee has clearly said that the matter cannot be solved outside, and when the other side is not ready for a settlement, it is pointless talking on those lines,” said Champat Rai, VHP international general secretary, who recounted about the Babri Masjid demolition and events after it for the masses.
  
 The meetings, called ‘Ramotsava Sankalp Sabhas’, are meant to kindle awareness and unite Hindus for the cause of Ram temple in Ayodhya. VHP said it will organise rallies and ‘aartis’ between March 23 and April 11 as part of the movement across the country. The Hindu outfit’s members said that with BJP in power at the Centre and in the state, work on pursuing the agenda of construction of the Ram temple will begin this year itself.
  
 “What is any Indian’s relation with Babur? He was a foreign invader who looted India. His own grave in Afghanistan is in a sorry state, so why do we care to establish a Babri Masjid? The Hindus in India should take care not to fall into the trap of ‘conversations’ in the name of Ram Mandir and mellow down their spirit. Our main motive should be to get Ram Mandir constructed,” said Rai.
 
