NEW DELHI: Ex-Meghalaya high court Chief Justice   has defended his retirement eve order directing the state to provide him ‘Z’ category security post-retirement by saying he perceived threat to his life from orders he had passed six years ago as ajudge of Allahabad HC. 

 When the matter was taken up a couple of times by a bench headed by then CJI T S Thakur, the Supreme Court had questioned the locus standi of private citizens who had moved court against Justice   and said judges worked under difficult circumstances.
 
 However, the   had sought the Meghalaya government’s response. Suo motu responding to the proceedings, Justice Singh had on September 28 last year written to the SC registry explaining his position. This letter was kept in sealed cover.
 
 The new CJI, J S Khehar, ordered a copy of the letter to be given to the counsel for petitioner and the Meghalaya government. In his letter, Justice Singh defended his decision in January last year to direct the Meghalaya government to continue providing him ‘Z’ category security post-retirement. 
 
 He said as a judge of the Lucknow bench of Allahabad HC in 2010, he had taken a “tough stand” against advocates who brandished weapons while assaulting investigating officers in land grabbing and criminal cases. He narrated how he ordered setting up of an SIT comprising officers from CBI, Enforcement Directorate and  . 
 
 Against this order, “miscreants had mobilised a huge crowd in October 2010 with a pre-plan to attack me and vandalise my court”, he said, and narrated how the state had provided him extra security. He also referred to his order directing eviction of violent Jat protesters from railway tracks despite the police being reluctant to do so fearing large scale violence. 
 
 He said politicians and caste protagonists too had an axe to grind against him for his 2013 order banning caste rallies in UP, “which caused lots of resentment and aggression in the minds of political parties that largely depend upon caste combinations in the elections”. 
 
 Justice Singh cited another order passed by him as Meghalaya CJ banning bandh calls by proscribed outfits. 
 
 He said, “The security of judges in view of the facts mentioned herein being a serious one... it was my foremost duty to protect the institution and judges and secure them against any fear of threat to their lives.” Though he had ordered ‘Z’ category security for himself after retirement, Justice Singh clarified that “after my retirement, I have never had ‘Z’ category security, nor have I ever demanded that kind of security from any government”. “I have been provided with only two PSOs and three armed police personnel of UP police,” he wrote.
 
