BHOPAL: Toilets are the new caste divide in this part of rural Madhya Pradesh despite the glare of the Swachh Bharat campaign. The privileged members of a dusty hamlet in   are accused of breaking toilets built by Scheduled Caste villagers, apparently incensed that the Swachh loos came as a great leveller.

 The tussle is between the downtrodden Prajapatis and influential   in Barakhera village, about 50km from the district headquarters of Chhattarpur. Women of the SC community have alleged that some Patels smashed the toilets because their doors opened in front of their houses and narrowed down the road. “We are now forced to go out to relieve ourselves,” they rued.
 
 For some Prajapatis, it’s even worse. “To add to our woes, the Patel community has threatened to beat us if we go out to defecate. Neither are we allowed to go to our toilets, nor are we allowed to go in the open. What can we do now,” asked Champa.
 
 The conflict is intense enough to worry the administration. On Saturday, a team of officials visited the village to ensure that the toilets are constructed again.
 
 The Prajapati community in Barakhera village numbers half a dozen families. The Patels belong to the   community, but are affluent and politically influential in the region. When the bickering started, construction of two toilets had finished and they were to be opened on Saturday, and four more were near completion — all that was left was to put a tin sheet as the roof. The government had provided Rs 13,000 for their construction. 
 
 “But all our efforts are likely to go to waste. Now, we will have to go out for defecation,” said Mithila Prajapati, a local. The SC families are now using earthen pots in their backyard, said Mukesh Prajapati. “We are suffering because the village sarpanch also belongs to the Patel community. The only reason why our toilets were broken is that they were built in front of the houses of Patels.”
 
 Bhagwan Das Patel, one of those bothered by the toilets in front of his house, said: “The whole day we are forced to see people moving in and out of the toilets. Moreover, the toilets have narrowed the road. We have lodged a complaint with the panchayat.”
 
 CEO of the district panchayat Harsh Dixit said: “I have sent a team of officials to find out why the toilets were demolished. I will comment only after the team submits its report.” Needless to say, Chhattarpur district lags way behind in achieving open-defecation-free (ODF) tag.
 
 
