NEW DELHI:   completed Budget-related legislative business in time for the new financial year after   on Thursday rejected all five amendments to the   passed by Rajya Sabha. As it is a money bill, the Finance Bill will now be sent directly to the President for approval. The financial year will begin on April 1 and the notification by Rashtrapati Bhavan is expected soon.

 The Centre had advanced the   presentation date from the traditional last day of February to February 1 to ensure that the annual financial exercise was completed before the new financial year began. This will help government departments spread out the spending and direct tax changes will also kick in on time.
 
 RS, where the government lacks majority, had on Wednesday voted in favour of five amendments seeking deletion of clauses relating to amendments in the   Act and provision of electoral bonds. A point in contention was the doing away of a provision that allowed a person who has been searched to access the identity of the informant in the case.
 
 The proposed bonds seek to clean up political funding but at the same time offer anonymity to donors reluctant to be identified with a particular political party. While three amendments were moved by Congress MP Digvijaya Singh, CPM’s Sitaram Yechury brought in the other two.
 
 RSP MP N K Premchandran, aligned with Congress, said LS was able to discuss the bill only in some detail as RS had passed five amendments that were unacceptable to the government. He said the “money bill” route has allowed the Centre to ignore views of the upper House and criticised the removal of ceiling on corporate donations to parties.
 
 On Thursday, the Centre used its big majority in LS to undo all the five amendments by voice vote. Interestingly, NDA partner Shiv Sena’s Anandrao Adsul, while participating in the debate, chose to back the RS amendment on political funding and sought a more transparent system.
 
 Replying to the debate, finance minister Arun Jaitley countered the argument that electoral bonds will promote non-transparency in political funding. “I invite both members of the political class and the media to suggest a better system to clean up poll funding.
 
 The government has tried amending the law twice; first in 2001 when a donor was allowed tax relief on contribution and then by the UPA government which proposed funding through electoral trusts.
 
 However, these tried and tested systems had limited success.
 
 “We have brought in four ways to tackle unclean funding and bring in part transparency. Those who want full transparency, I invite you to suggest a better system,” he told the House.
 
 He added that parties not happy with the option of poll bonds could always continue to take donations by cheque. Jaitley allayed fears regarding I-T Act amendments seeking to restrict sharing of satisfactory note on raids and searches to the courts, stating that this was to protect the source of information that led to the raid. The satisfaction note will, however, be completed and revealed to the court. Also, he explained that cutting the number of tribunals was merely aimed at reducing administrative expenses and logistical requirements.
 
 On proposed amendments to FCRA, Jaitley said exemption (of corporates from definition of foreign source) would only apply to companies based in India, but with majority foreign shareholding.
 
 The issue of FCRA amendment was raised by BJD MP Bhartruhari Mahtab who complained that it went against the Delhi high court’s verdict that foreign donations to parties were not acceptable.
 
 Earlier, Congress MP Deepender Hooda objected to the Centre introducing amendments to 40 laws through the Finance Bill. “This is a subversion of powers of RS,” he alleged. Jaitley in his reply clarified that there were precedents of amendments being moved to other laws through the Finance Bill.
 
 TMC’s Saugata Roy aired his apprehensions on linking Aadhaar details with the PAN card, saying this might lead to leakage of data. He also demanded a separate law to ensure transparency in poll funding.
 
 
