HYDERABAD: Hopes of  , a Pakistani spy jailed in   for the past seven years, to go back to his country have been dwindling with   not being forthcoming to execute his deportation. 

 As diplomatic ties between India and Pakistan hit a new low over the sentencing of retired naval officer   to death by a military court, Mahamood’s hopes may sink deeper into uncertainty.
 
 Mahmood, arrested from a cyber cafe in Hyderabad on April 30, 2009, for taking photographs of defence installations, was sentenced to 14 years in jail. He was released on August 16 last year after being granted remission. 
 
 However, the government directed the prison authorities to keep him in jail until proper arrangements were made to send him back to Pakistan. 
 
 Top government sources said his deportation is now at a serious risk of derailment with the two neighbouring countries at loggerheads over Jadhav’s death sentence.
 
 The ministry of external affairs has been very guarded about the issue ever since foreign minister   cautioned Pakistan that the execution will have a serious impact on bilateral relations.
 
 “Our external affairs minister Sushma Swaraj’s speech in   today ‘(Tuesday) and yesterday’s MEA statement makes it clear about the prevailing issue with Pakistan.
 
 With the specific issue of Mahmood in Hyderabad, and similar such cases, it will be unfair to comment by speculating at this point of time and linking it with Jadhav’s case,” a senior officer from external publicity & public Diplomacy Division told TOI.
 
 The Telangana government has been in touch with the MEA to provide consular access to Mahmood and establish his identity.
 
 Ever since his release, Mahamood has been writing passionate letters to the Supreme Court, high court and the government, seeking help to return home. 
 
 “Initially, when the issue was referred to the central government about the need to deport Mahamood, in their records it was recorded that he was from Bangladesh.
 
 But a clarification was issued later saying that Mahamood has a Pakistani passport,”   jail superintendent Sampath told TOI. 
 
 “Long time ago, Pakistan embassy authorities themselves came to the jail to see Mahamood. This information was also passed on to the Union government,” Sampath added.
 
 Last week, state intelligence authorities also visited Warangal jail and verified details pertaining to Mahamood’s deportation.
 
