Hyderabad: At a time, when Khubani Ka Meetha and Sheer Khurma were perhaps the main options available to Hyderabadis to satiate their sweet cravings, Mohammed Haleem came up with a refreshingly cool and different idea, one that has made his enterprise famous, literally.

 “My grandfather (Mohammed Haleem) set up   at Moazzam Jahi market at 1951 with six staff members. This was probably the first ice cream parlour in the Twin Cities then… before him, his father too used to sell handmade ice cream in the Old City but it was on a much smaller scale and was known as -- Gafoor Ice Cream,” Md Hussamuddin recounts.
 
 Today, the third generation runs the show at Famous. They claim, with dollops of pride, that the market share of their ice cream business has not melted away in the last 66 years mainly due to the quality of the ice cream and goodwill earned over the past six decades.
 
 “When it comes to quality… there is no compromise. That is the reason people who taste our ice cream always come back for more. Since childhood, I have been involved with Famous Ice Cream. While the environment around Moazzam Jahi market has changed, the taste of our handmade ice creams is still the same” says Md Hussamuddin.
 
 Today, Moazzam Jahi market has around four to five ice cream shops but have not been able to eat into their loyal clientele base.
 
 The reasons are obvious. The brand has tried to keep pace with the changing times. Today, along with its legendary handmade, fresh fruit fresh ice creams such as pineapple, mango, chikoo and custard apple, among others, Famous also began selling frozen desserts along the way.
 
 While the handmade ice creams, which consist of seasonal fruits, cream and sugar, are prepared at the shop under the supervision of the owners, the frozen desserts are prepared at the factory that is located near Nehru Zoo Park.
 
 And it is not just quality that Famous Ice Cream has managed to maintain, it has also kept the prices pocket-friendly for the ‘Aam Aadmi’ despite soaring prices of raw materials such as milk, fruit, sugar and cream.
 
 “Believe it or not… one scoop of handmade ice cream used to cost anywhere between 25-50 paise when our grandfather used to run the show. Even today, if you see, our ice cream is priced very reasonably at Rs 30-40 per scoop. Margins are not very high and we rely mainly on volumes,” he explains, pointing out that Famous has abstained from hiking prices in the past three years.
 
 So how can they afford to dish out these delicious cool scoops? “We have been managing somehow… on an average, we serve 900-1,000 customers per week,” he says.
 
 Of course, business peaks during summers as well as the month of Ramzaan, when the outlet, which generally downs shutters by 12.30 am, stays open till 2 am to 2.30 am to cater to the festive demand.
 
 But as competition hots up, with an increasing number of outlets of players like Scoops, Cream Stone and Natural mushrooming across the city, Famous feels the time is now ripe to make some changes in the mix.
 
 In keeping with the changing times, it is now planning to introduce a new range of sugar free ice creams to cater to health conscious ice cream connoisseurs. It is also mulling a presence in the upmarket Hi-Tech City area with an ice cream parlour in the next one year. But will Hyderabadis in the happening IT district too get to savour Famous ice creams at Rs 30 per scoop? “Of course not!” pat comes the reply.
 
 One of the main reasons that Famous has been able to keep its prices low is because of the lower rent of around Rs 1 lakh per annum it pays for the space at the Moazzam Jahi market to the Telangana government. For a similar kind of space in the Hi-Tech city area, it may have to shell out a similar amount by way of rentals for just one or two months.
 
 
