How many times have you transcended into a world which is full of words and imagination?   makes you forget about the pressures and worries of life and takes you into a world which is nothing like yours. Here are some reasons why this monsoon you must pick up as many books as you can. Trust us, curling up with a classic, and a cuppa steaming tea, while it pours outside, is an experience like no other.

 
 
 Reading is really about taking a trip to different worlds. And there are so many other worlds to visit that once you are done with one book, you will feel the need to pick up another! 
 
 
 
 Librarian Shweta Verma says, “The more books you read, the more adventures you have in your kitty. From heroes to villains, you’ve lived a million lives. It not only allows you to live the life of the character, but also understand the mind and the situation of the character better.”
 
 
 
 According to English teacher Prabha Narayain, several studies have revealed that reading is great for your brain’s health and makes you an imaginative person. She says, “It helps you brainstorm better. You’ll never have a dearth of ideas if you’re a voracious reader. That apart, it also improves your language and makes you more creative.”
 
 
 
 It lets your mind wander and delve into the spaces that you would normally not go into if you weren’t reading. You start living and understanding the life of the characters that you read about.
 
 
 
 Psychologist Seema Hingorrany says, “It is often said that people who read understand the world better than those who do not. This is because when you read about different characters, in a way, you live different lives, realising pain and sorrows of so many, and seeing the world from many point of views.” 
 
 
 
 Travel enthusiast and an avid book lover, Mayank Joshi, feels that if you don’t have someone to talk to in the house or would just like some quiet time alone, books are your best bet. He says, “Also, it’s a great company when you are travelling and need to occupy yourself with something to not get bored.”
 
