PUNE: The fear of extra civic tax lurks in villages’ merger prospect.

 Thousands of   and Phursungi and nine other villages to be merged with the   ( ) fear they would have to pay   according per   after the merger. As of now, they are enjoying a   because of being in the gram panchayat limits. Many are not even paying any taxes to the local administration.
 
 Ajun Mehta of the Dhayari area, still not in the PMC limits, said though the flat he stayed in was a registered property with the state IGR, he was not paying any annual taxes. “I feel the civic body will impose all types of taxes it collects from the city residents on us also after the official merger,” Mehta said.
 
 The state government last week cleared its intention of merging two villages (Phursungi and Uruli Devachi) and the remaining areas of nine villages left out of the city limits with the PMC. All these villages are on the fringes of the city.
 
 A source in the real estate sector said the merger of villages would lead to inclusion of huge chunk of residential and commercial properties in the city limits because real estate activities were going on in full swing in the peripheral areas. Though the areas were not in the city limits, the developers sold properties to buyers claiming that these areas would be a part of the corporation shortly.
 
 Officials in the PMC stressed they would enforce a tax structure identical to the city in the newly merged areas. The tax would most likely be imposed in phases to ensure residents did not have to pay a huge sum at one go.
 
 When the corporation had merged few villages in 1997, it had adopted a phase-wise increase in tax structure. The taxes were increased for five years, starting with 20% hike in the first year. The officials were of the view that the civic body would decide on the tax structure after the state government issued the final notification of merger.
 
 “We will seek a list of taxpayers from the respective gram panchayats and a separate list of those properties not paying taxes. We will have to decide on a separate tax collection policy for both types of properties,” a source in the PMC said.
 
 Thousands of residents of Uruli Devachi and Phursungi and nine other villages to be merged with the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) fear they would have to pay higher taxes according per civic body’s tax structure after the merger. As of now, they are enjoying a lesser tax slab because of being in the gram panchayat limits. Many are not even paying any taxes to the local administration.
 
 
