Nagpur: Vice-chancellor SP Kane on Monday wrote to the higher and technical education department to expedite the process to increase intake capacity for UG courses in affiliated colleges even as two protests on the same issue rocked the Nagpur University.

 Kane ruled out the letter was result of pressure mounted due to the protests staged by National Students Union of India (NSUI) and Nationalist Students Council (NSC), students wings of political parties.
 
 “July 20 was the last date for colleges to apply for enhancing their intake capacity. The data was put up before me on July 21. Only 17 colleges have applied. July 22 and 23 being Saturday and Sunday were holidays but I had ordered that the letter must be kept ready by Monday. Though there is huge demand, many colleges have not opted for more seats.”
 
 Several colleges are unwilling to have more seats as per the government resolution as it will require them to fulfil several norms such as infrastructure and faculty.
 
 In his letter, Kane stated, that different student organizations, colleges, parents and students have submitted their requests. “To ensure that no students is deprived of admission even after the common admission schedule, the government must take immediate action to allow the university to increase the intake,” the letter states.
 
 NSC president Shailendra Tiwari said, “We have demanded the resignation of education minister Vinod Tawde because he is responsible for the injustice being meted out to students.”
 
 Tiwari added that they have asked the university to increase the intake by 30% so that all students are accommodated and not just 20%.
 
 NSUI president Ajith Singh said they are of the view that all students who have applied to the college of their choice must be given admission. “The NU has uploaded data regarding admissions which shows there were plenty of seats on June 30. Yet, many colleges had turned away students saying their admissions were full. It’s not clear who is saying the truth,” Singh said.
 
 Earlier in the day, the NSUI led by Singh had insisted that VC Kane hold talks with them. They were later rounded up by Sitabuldi cops but after being let off five members held talks with Kane. NSC members led by Tiwari too reached the university forcing NU security to close both the main gates.
 
 For over half an hour regular visitors and students had to wait as the agitations continued.
 
 
