AHMEDABAD: Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s ‘Vijay Rath’ (victory chariot) will roll out again in November, this time in Gujarat, said the party’s national president Amit Shah on Wednesday. Shah was speaking in Ahmedabad at ‘Vijay Vishwas Karyakarta Sammelan’, a large gathering of BJP’s booth-level workers.

 This was Shah’s first rally after the BJP’s victories in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand assembly polls. The party had also managed to form government in Goa and Manipur.
 
 Shah’s statement has come as a surprise to many as speculation was rife that the ruling party might go for early assembly elections in Gujarat. Polls in the state are due only in December 2017. Shah exhorted party workers with a new slogan: ‘300+ in UP and 150+ in Gujarat’. He asked   workers work to aggressively to win 150 plus seats in the upcoming assembly elections.
 
  It may be mentioned here that the maximum number of seats won by a party in Gujarat assembly elections was in 1985. Led by former chief minister Madhavsinh Solanki, the Congress had then won a record 149 out of the 182 seats.
 
  “PM Narendra Modi’s   is winning everywhere across the country….His Vijay Rath will arrive in Gujarat in November,’’ Shah said. He then asked party leaders whether   is ready for it. “Shall I tell Modiji that you are ready?” Shah asked. To this BJP leaders replied with a loud “Yes”. Setting the target of 150 plus seats for party workers, Shah said: “When Narendrabhai was CM, we won 128 seats. Now that he is PM, we must win more than 150 seats.’’ Shah also gave credit for the party’s string of victories to Gujarat. “BJP’s success lies in the Gujarat model,” he said. “The PM has replaced caste, family and politics of appeasement with the ‘politics of performance’
 
 ‘Modi govt will give more than UPA’
 
 Shah claimed that Modi government at the Centre will give Gujarat Rs.1.22 lakh crore in five years. “During the UPA regime, Gujarat had received only Rs 43,000 crore,” he said.
 
  Shah scoffs at Cong ‘dreams’
 
 Amit Shah ridiculed not only All India Congress president Sonia Gandhi and vice-president Rahul Gandhi but also attacked Gujarat Congress, Jawaharlal Nehru and Rajiv Gandhi. “Whenever elections are due, the Congress starts having Shekhchilli dreams. The party is campaigning that it is ‘ave chhe’ while the country says Congress ‘jaay chhe (fading away),” Shah said
 
 Modi-Shah like Gandhi-Patel: Rupani
 
 Speaking at the party gathering, chief minister   and state BJP president Jitu Vaghani compared Modi and Shah with Mahatma Gandhi and Sardar Patel. Rupani said Mahatma Gandhi and Sardar Patel had given leadership in the freedom struggle while Modi and Shah are giving new leadership to the country.
 
 Shah afraid of us: Gujarat AAP
 
 Reacting sharply to Amit Shah's crticism of Aam Adami Party (AAP), its leaders said Shah is afraid of AAP's growing support in Gujarat. Party spokesperson Harshil Nayak said AAP was the party which had defeated BJP in the state where the PM lives. “It was again due to AP that the BJP was reduced from 12 seats to 3 in Punjab ,” Nayak said. “Similarly BJP was reduced to 13 from 21 in Goa.” Nayak also claimed that people had started trusting AAP and Shah has “sensed defeat” in Gujarat. “That is why Shah is ridiculing AAP as he knows that people will show BJP the door,” Nayak said.
 
 BJP deploys ACs to keep rally cool 
 
 Gujarat BJP used to provide party workers ‘gathiya’ and ‘bundi’ at political functions. However, at the Vijay Viswas Sammelan on Wednesday, the party's main concern was the intense summer heat. Nearly 20 ACs, 900 fans and 60 air-coolers were installed at the venue while cold drinks, buttermilk, peanuts and chocolates were provided in large quantities.
 
 BJP chief likely to meet Vaghela, attend assembly
 
 Amit Shah, BJP national president and MLA from Naranpura, will attend proceedings at the assembly on Thursday. Shah is likely to attend the assembly for an hour. Shah will meet the state BJP MLAs separately and then leader of opposition Shankersinh Vaghela in his chamber. BJP and Congress sources confirmed the likely meeting. Both called this a courtesy visit, which Shah does every time he attends the assembly.In afternoon Shah, will meet all district and state BJP leaders at the state BJP headquarters “Kamalam” near Koba.
 
 Solanki slams ‘poor knowledge of history’
 
 Sharply reacting to the BJP president Amit Shah’s tirade against the Congress, Gujarat Congress president Bharatsinh Solanki said, “Shah has exposed his own poor knowledge of history and tendency to lie loudly. Shah has not uttered a single word about rising prices, the issues of Gujarat’s unemployed youth, women’s safety and other core issues and makes false claims that the BJP is providing electricity to all. Ask any farmer in Gujarat if anyone gets adequate electricity. UPA provided the most funds, Rs 50,000 crore, to Gujarat under the Rajiv Gandhi rural electrification scheme. Shah’s rhetoric about the Congress vice president exposes his mentality. BJP does not have any young leader like him.” “The CM comparison of Mahatma Gandhi and Sardar Patel with Modi and Shah are an insult to Gandhiji and Sardar Patel,” he added.
 
