GURUGRAM: Nestled between tony gated societies, exclusive schools and premium facilities, the narrow stretch that is  , has, for quite some time, enjoyed the hush hush disrepute as Gurugram’s go-to place for a wide array of hard drugs. 

 Early morning on Thursday, the rumour got an official stamp, after a 26-year-old man was found dead in an abandoned plot behind the village. He appeared to have overdosed.
 
 Village shopkeepers found the man lying on the abandoned plot around 6am. Initially, they suspected the man was sleeping off his intoxication, but called in the cops once they realised he was dead. The man has been identified as Dinesh, a resident of Gadoli Khurd village in Gurugram, 12 km away from where his body was found.
 
 According to locals, although police were informed soon after the body was found, the body was left lying on the plot for a further three hours before it was taken to the morgue, because of issues concerning jurisdiction. A huge crowd had gathered around the body by then.
 
 According to a local shop-owner, who wished to remain anonymous, the village has become a den of drug users for a while. 
 
 “At night, around 20-30 auto-rickshaw drivers park their vehicles nearby and make their way to this very plot to smoke or inject drugs,” he said.
 
 “They are not here today because they know there will be a lot of attention on this place. Otherwise, they are here day and night, because drugs are easily available here,” said a ironing lady, whose kiosk is set up nearby.
 
 The TOI team visiting the site found heaps of abandoned syringes, vials and bottles lying all over the plot, which overlooks upscale The Close North residential society in Sector 50. The drug vials appeared to have been bought over the counter, as they were labelled and packaged. Some locals claimed the regulars are into smack, while others said they are into anaesthetic drugs, whose vials strewn all around were bought from pharmacies without prescription. If true, this was proof of the rumour that pharmaceutical drugs are rampantly sold and consumed illegally in the city.
 
 According to a small boy loitering in the area, addicts who shoot up at night and pass out there is a common sight. The SHO of Sector 56 police station, Arvind Kumar, said the dead man was unemployed, friendly with auto-drivers who were regulars at the site, and is suspected to have overdosed on drugs, though the exact cause of death will only be confirmed after the post-mortem results arrive. Cops said so far, all that is known is that a tumour was found in Dinesh’s heart during post-mortem.
 
 They said the body was handed over to the family after post-mortem. 
 
 “The delay in transferring the body to the morgue in the morning was because we wanted the family to identify the man first to avoid future confusion,” said Kumar. The investigation was carried out under Section 174 of CrPC. No FIR was registered. 
 
 SHO Kumar said a thorough combing operation was carried out in the area to identify drug peddlers. “Since the village falls under the jurisdiction of another police station, we’re coordinating efforts to target drug users and peddlers,” he said.
 
 
