NEW DELHI:   who had been banking on the neighbourhood criteria to gain admission for their toddlers are   with the   of the High Court verdict more than the decision itself, saying whatever be the criteria, they should have been given more time to plan accordingly.

 However, there are also some parents who are happy with the stay on the guidelines, because their kids’ chances of gaining admission in schools on the basis of neighbourhood criteria were low, and the stay makes them more optimistic of acceptance.
 
 Parents are also confused about how the schools will grade their child, now that they have the discretion of decision. Vipin Jain, a parent living in northwest Delhi, said the schools had taken all information, like the distance, girl child criteria, etc at the outset, without specifying which ones will be used to measure the points.
 
 “Now I am not sure if they will use all the criteria mentioned in the form or some of them in making the final decision. They never specified anything clearly. I have no idea where I stand right now,” Jain said.
 
 For most of the parents, however, it was not the verdict but the timing that was upsetting. “I filled up all the forms thinking admission will be done on neighbourhood criteria. I knew the case is in court, but never believed it will go back to where it was last year,” said Pooja Kumar, a parent living in Yojna Vihar. 
 
 “Had the decision come out earlier, I would have had the time to go beyond my current set of choices for better chances. The timing is very bad,” she added.
 
 Another parent, Neha Jindal, too thought the decision should have been made earlier, calling it unjust on parents. “Had I known my choices are not restricted to neighbourhood schools, I would have applied to many more. But now I will have to just sit and watch, hoping that my child gets in somewhere at least. I should have been given time to weigh my options,” she said.
 
 However, Rakesh Pandey, a parent living in R K Puram, was satisfied with the outcome of the verdict, happy with the increased chances of getting his child into a “good” school. “I don’t have any good schools in my area, nor do I get any points for siblings, because this is my first child. I have applied in around 12 schools, and now my chances of getting him admitted on the basis of merit is more,” said Pandey.
 
 Parents, instead, think that government should move the admission process earlier into the year to keep the admission process on track.
 
 
