UDAIPUR: Thousands of tourists who come to visit the historical battle site at   in Rajsamand, find their trip incomplete without visiting  , the memorial of the famous loyal horse of   who breathed his last here after getting severely wounded. 

 However, only a few know that the memorial raised at the Samadhi with a cenotaph (Chhatri) is not the original tomb of the mighty horse, but a ‘Sati Stambh’ that was installed years later perhaps after the original tomb was dislocated and damaged. 
 
 Chetak Samadhi is a national monument protected by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) and there is a stone inscription laid by the tourism department which cites the memorial to be built in the memory of the supreme sacrifice that the loyal   made while saving the life of his master. 
 
 On June 18, 1576 when the fierce battle between Maharana Pratap and the Mughal army was at its peak, enemies had surrounded the Mewar army. Pratap was mounted on Chetak’s top who was known for galloping with a wind speed. Chetak sustained a deep cut on his feet when Rana Pratap attacked the elephant of ManSingh. 
 
 To save Pratap’s life, the injured Chetak galloped away from the battle field and covered a safe distance. But he finally collapsed after jumping over a22 feet stream and died. “The original Samadhi was a kachha one made with stone and sand. Renowned historian Gaurishankar Heerachand Ojha is his book ‘Udaipur Rajya ka Itihas’ written in 1924 had claimed the present tomb to be that of a Sati and not Chetak,” author Shri Krishna Jugnu told TOI. 
 
 There is an old temple at the Samadhi premises which is believed to have been built in 1351. It was Pratap’s son   who was the first to take efforts to preserve the memories of the historic Haldighati battle by raising up memorials at Rakt-Talai during 1616 to 1628. The Chetak Samadhi is a well maintained site with narrations put up elaborating Chetak’s valor to people coming from far and wide.
 
 
 
 
 UDAIPUR: In a tribute to Maharana Pratap’s beloved horse Chetak, the district administration has planned to organize a horse fair on Thursday. The fair had been a celebrated event in the past, however, for a decade it had been discontinued. This time the efforts are being made to revive the glory of the place through the fair. More than 100 horses of superior species are expected to participate in the fair and enthrall the audience with their adventures. The horse fair was first organized here some 25 years back at the behest of Chetak Horse Society. Marwari, Arabian and Kathiawari horses were brought in here for the three day fair.
 
 
