HYDERABAD: Soon you could either end up in jail or face hefty fine or suffer both punishments if you cause air or  . The Telangana government is contemplating such provisions for implementation by the proposed   in the state. The authority is being set up on the lines of Clean Air Authority of Tokyo for strict enforcement of laws against those who cause pollution in the state and especially in Greater Hyderabad.

 Though there are provisions in the laws for   (PCB) and transport department to take action against people or firms that cause pollution, there is no single platform to regulate pollution. Similarly , the government is planning to give more teeth to the existing laws. The   (TSPCB) has already prepared a draft for setting up Clean Air Autho rity for Telangana. This would become the first such authority in the country.
 
 Information technology and municipal administration minister K T Rama Rao reportedly directed the officials of various departments such as TSPCB, municipal administration, police and transport departments to visit Tokyo and study the functioning and implementation of regulations of the authority.
 
 “Clean Air Authority of Tokyo covers Tokyo city and 22 surrounding local authorities. This authority has been yielding good results. The state government wants to replicate the system in Greater Hyderabad also,“ TSPCB member secretary P Satyanarayana Reddy told TOI.
 
 Official sources said though pollution levels are not alarming, certain issues have been identified by the government to be regulated. “The city has issues like garbage burning, releasing sewage into lakes, illegal dumping of chemical and hospital waste into nalas, solid waste management and other issues,“ a senior state government official said.
 
 The regulatory body not only helps in coordinating all departments but also takes action against the polluters. Rama Rao held a meeting with various departments including municipal, TSPCB, police, TSIIC and transport on illegal dumping of waste into nalas and lakes. Soon after the meeting, a task force comprising officials of all the departments concerned, which was constituted, got into action and initiated measures against those dumping chemical waste into nalas.
 
 Sources said once the draft was cleared it would be sent to the law department for vetting before being sent for cabinet approval.
 
