NEW DELHI: Just being the richest cricket association by virtue of having fixed deposits worth Rs 250 crore doesn't mean that the   (SCA) is thinking of foregoing its share of the Rs 1,800 crore BCCI coffer. The SCA, which has appealed to the   (COA) for release of funds, is not amused by the BCCI's stance. According to former SCA boss   it's the players who are suffering because of  's reluctance to release the legitimate share of funds. 

 The   in its October 18 order said that the state units would be eligible for BCCI funds only after implementing the   committee's reforms but Shah doesn't agree with it. "We are fighting the case in the Supreme Court. The money we are asking is for cricket and cricketers. It's BCCI responsibility to make players its priority and not the working staff. In any case, 26 per cent of the BCCI's income belongs to the cricketers out of which 13 per cent belongs to domestic players," Shah said. He was reacting to the COA not taking the SCA's series of letters seriously.
 
 "Today Vinod Rai, chairman of COA, is in a position of strength because of his services as the head of CAG. Similarly, even we have done good work for our association and made cricket the best sport in the country. The BCCI is the best run sports body in India because of the work done by the board," Shah said.
 
 "Just because someone is above 70 years of age, it does mean that you throw him out of the organisation. Do you throw the elder members of the family after crossing 70 years? This is age discrimination, which doesn't happen anywhere in the world. Even our Prime Minister would have the rights to stay on in power as long as the voters are behind him," Shah added.
 
 When told that the COA may not be happy with his presence at the SCA despite the SC order, Shah said: "We are a society here and there is nothing wrong if I am helping the next generation to run the game. Just because I am 70 plus, I can't be told not to enter the field tomorrow. We ran the association with a great degree of honesty and integrity, this isn't the way to treat the state units."
 
 When brought to his notice that the COA won't release any   funds till the tournament gets over, as the rule permits release of funds 14 days after the tournament gets over, Shah demanded it in writing. "Let them give it to SCA in writing that they would release the funds after the IPL. We don't have money to pay the players and even need funds to stage IPL matches. The board certainly needs to address this," Shah, who is one of the longest serving officials amongst the state units, added.
 
 
