NAVI MUMBAI: The stretch of   in the periphery of Nerul lake was crowded with enthusiasts out to enjoy the  .

 Many who have to rely on the public transport to get around during their daily routine were seen crowding around the rent-free cycle corner. “Though I don’t own a cycle, I make it a point to hit Happy Streets for my Sunday morning quota of fitness,” said CBD resident Manan Lavange.
 
 Participants were seen skating, cycling, running, walking, swirling hula hoop, playing badminton and executing yoga postures. Many were also engaged in meditation, dance, music, pickleball, football, gyming and fitness workouts.
 
 “I come here for my weekly dose of entertainment. I love playing outdoor games and this is a perfect way to engage in various outdoor activities,” said 14-year-old Manish Jaiswal, a Sanpada resident.
 
 Many budding talents were gathered around Prajapati Developers’ stage to get themselves registered to explore the opportunity of displaying their artistic talents. A talent hunt was being organized to allow participants to showcase their skills, entertain the onlookers and win prizes.
 
 “We will have competitions for acting, mimicry, dancing and playing musical instruments in the next three weeks. We want to encourage the participants and provide them a platform to perform their best,” said  , head of  .
 
 Ankesh Choudhary (14) was thrilled with the musical dance performance by VVAF at TOI main stage. “We had fun learning some of the moves and playing playing various instruments. Mentors were helping newbies in voice modulation tricks,” he said.
 
 Participants also got to enjoy a special ‘aerobics with a flavour of yoga’ session at the social awareness and mentoring corner. This was followed by a poster exhibition and competition. A selfie corner for kids was another highlight.
 
 An initiative of NMMC and city traffic police, powered by   and supported by TOI, the event, in its fifth season, is being held from 6.30 to 9.30am at Palm Beach Road.
 
 
