MUMBAI: Shiv Sena leader and minister of state for dairy development   on Monday found himself locked in an unexpected controversy over the sale of a massive quantity of tur at the Jalna centre of the National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation (NAFED). Reports stated that it had been found that Khotkar and his family members had sold nearly 377 quintals of tur at the NAFED centre in Jalna district for Rs 19 lakh, that too in a single day.

 “Our information is that out of the 377 quintals, 187 quintals belonged to Khotkar, while the remaining tur belonged to his family members,'' a bureaucrat said.
 
 A Jalna district official confirmed that following orders of water supply and sanitation minister Babanrao Lonikar, the   have been told to probe the   involving some local farmers and traders. “Following complaints by farmers, Lonikar has told the local crime branch and district collector to conduct a probe into all the tur transactions,“ the bureaucrat said.
 
 Khotkar told TOI, “ All the charges are false and baseless. There is nothing illegal in the sale. I am not a trader but a farmer. My family owns nearly 400 acres of land, and we grow all types of crops. It's a fact we sold a huge quantity , there's nothing illegal about it. This is an attempt by political rivals to defame me.“ Asked about the issue, CM   texted to TOI, “I will check. Don't know what is the case.“
 
 Alarmed by a series of complaints lodged by farmers and senior Sena leaders, Fadnavis had ordered a high-level probe into the tur purchased at NAFED centres. It was then alleged that leading traders were purchasing tur at cheaper prices from farmers and selling it at NAFED centres at a much higher price.“We have specific information. Se veral traders in Jalna district did purchase tur from farmers and sold it at exorbitant prices at NAFED centres,“ he had then said.
 
 According to a Jalna-based Sena activist, there was no irregularity as Khotkar owns huge tracks of land.“Khotkar and his family members own nearly 400 acres of land in and around Jalna. Tur was their own crop, so it will be wrong to say he was involved in a scam,“ he said. Former CM Prithviraj Chavan demanded a CBI inquiry into the tur dal issue.Chavan alleged there were discrepancies in figures announced by the government about the produce of tur and purchase.
 
