RANCHI: The Jharkhand   (Jhalsa) has set an example before other states in resolving   with the help of former government officials, educationists, doctors and professionals of multi-national companies. The organisation has formed a team of experts who is playing a significant role in disposing off cases through mediation. 

 While there are over 3 lakh   and 40,000 civil cases pending in   across the state, sources in Jhalsa said around 90,000 of the total pending cases are fit to be transferred to the team concerned.
 
 The team has adopted two approaches to handle the cases. The first mode is mediation by a team of   and the other by the experts’ team. The team of experts, the only one of its kind in the country, has achieved a high success rate in the resolution of cases in the past months.
 
 “The mediation success rate is satisfactory in Jharkhand and one of the reasons behind it is the high number of resolution of cases by the experts committee. Other states are now considering to follow our system in view of its accomplishments,” Arun Kumar Rai, secretary of Jhalsa and principal district and session judge, said. 
 
 Jhalsa’s records show that the experts’ committee has resolved 58% of the cases in comparison to the 50 percent success rate of the total mediations taking place across the state.
 
 This expert committee includes former chief secretary AK Singh, former police officer PN Singh, DPS principal and former chairperson of state commission for women Dr Hemlata S Mohan and chartered accountant AK Sahoo. According to figures available till August 2016, some of the expert mediators have individually achieved a high success rate of 83%.
 
 A case in the point is the dispute between two industrial houses. A case which involved a huge sum of money was referred by justice DN Patel, judge of High Court of Jharkhand, video order dated April 4, 2016, to the Jharkhand high court mediation centre. The mediation was conducted by Sahoo. After three months of negotiations, both parties agreed to settle their disputes on certain terms and conditions.
 
 
