Thane: In today’s hi-tech and fast moving world, one has to keep up with the rat race. While kids today are doing everything possible to keep up with this pace, teachers, too, have to keep improvising and come up innovative ways of teaching. 

 Early childhood professional,   from the lake city has been instrumental in using creative dramatics to develop the educational curriculum of kids since 27 years. She believes that any subject— be it mathematics, science or history—can be taught through dramatics.
 
  Deshpande said, “Explaining the history or mythology through dramatics is quite easy. But I think, all subjects can be taught through plays and dramas. Simple concepts such as addition can be made to understand with the help of a scene setting. For example, there is a birthday party scene, all children are allotted different roles. One child is given the responsibility of distributing return gifts. While distributing, the child is made to count how many children are present and how many gifts are there. This way, the entire class learns the basics of addition.”
 
 Educational experts claim that a very important aspect in early childhood curriculum is not just the child’s ability to read and write, as it is the primary focus in our educational system. It is equally important to inculcate and then hone other developing skills in a child.
 
 “Every child is born with potential. It is the duty of the teacher to act as a facilitator to bring out the hidden skills and to give loads of opportunities and platforms for their exposure. Dramatics is important in fostering the child’s multiple intelligence, which includes developing six skills— linguistic, kinetic (body movements), spatial (visual), musical, interpersonal and intra-personal. Apart from this, drama and audio-visual mode of communication also helps boost the self esteem and imagination power of the child, while proving to be fun and entertaining way of learning. Moreover, teachers can make even an introvert kid take part in plays by giving them roles without dialogues. This way, everyone participates in the class activity’’ said Deshpande.
 
 Being an eminent amateur theatre artist herself and having conducted a series of research on the development of a child’s brain, Deshpande has reasons to believe that this method of teaching is a 360 degree approach to develop the personality of the child from an early stage.
 
 A city-based educational activist Surendra Dighe of Jidnyasa trust at Naupada said, “Deshpande has trained 3,500 teachers across six states in the country. She had also presented a study in an international forum held in Auckland which exclusively deals with early childhood care and education. Her presentation on why dramatics should be included in pre-school curriculum has gained tremendous popularity. She has been the ambassador of India for the International forum since 2005.”
 
 Currently, the head of the pre-primary section of Saraswati Mandir Trust at Naupada, Deshpande aims to continue teaching and curating dramas for kids. Her dream is for students to get an opportunity to perform king Oedipus play at the National Center for Performing Arts ( ).
 
 
