The sculpture ‘Love HYD’, that was installed at Tank Bund, was supposed to be an ode to the city we love so much. But the love birds of Hyderabad seem to have taken the message of the typographical structure a tad too literally. The red and white sculpture installed four months ago is now filled with public declarations of love. The countless heart shaped boxes with names and initials and names of Sripadhs and Ramyas, Nanis and Laxmis, Pinkys and Prasads of Hyderabad have turned the sculpture into an eye-sore. 
Both the city police and   are at loggerheads with each other as they blame each other for being unable to stop the wanton defacement.  , SI Gandhinagar, says, “It is the GHMC’s responsibility to maintain that installation and we have no direct authority to have dedicated personnel just to police that spot. The GHMC, for its part, has deployed some watchmen but they are irregular and when they are present the public do not listen to them. So now we’ve asked them to note down the vehicle numbers of those people who do mischief at that place and pass it on to us. So far we haven’t received any. But if caught, we will not hesitate to take action against them as per the law.” 
 The  , 1984, states, “Whoever commits mischief by doing any act with respect to any public property shall be punished with imprisonment for a term which may extend to five years and with fine.” But that doesn’t seem to deter the city’s love birds one bit, laments  , who conducts guided tours in and around the city. “These random scribblings hurt Hyderabad’s image. It just reflects the lack civic sense among the public at large. While policing can be a stop-gap measure, what’s really needed is for people themselves to take ownership of public property. Citizens who care should be more vocal, and act when they see such acts of transgression, instead of being mute spectators. The solution for this lies in awareness, inculcating civic sense and with a certain sense of pride in the city,” he says.
 
