CHENNAI: Three years ago, when P S   visited California, he realised how people there productively use their retirement life by getting involved in various farming activities. 

 Back home, he wanted to do something for his own people on that line. It was while reading the works of Nammalvar that Venkat got interested in organic farming. To begin with, he started planting insulin keerai (spiral ginger) with a motto 'a leaf a day keeps diabetes away.' The leaf of insulin keerai can help to control insulin level by lowering blood glucose level in the body, he says. 
 
 As Venkat was nearing 60, he wanted to start something special on his birthday. He brought 200 insulin keerai plants from  , a hill station in Kerala's   district. He then leased out four acres of land in   and started planting them. Today, Venkat supplies the leaves of insulin keerai from his farm in Arcot to the wholesale market in Koyambedu. His goal: To reduce the monthly medical expenses of a diabetic.
 
  Venkat thinks big, not in terms of money but in terms of health. His target is to supply the leaves to at least 2,000 people in the city. Even though Venkat started selling insulin leaf tea and insulin power churn, he now focuses only on the leaves. 
 
 "My idea is to reach out to most people because I have seen many suffer from diabetes. It's a silent killer and many don't take it seriously. I am happy that the insulin keerai leaves are now available through some online websites too," he said.
 
  
  
 
  Climate, according to Venkat, was a big problem as this particular variety needed a cool climate to grow. "The temperature in and around Arcot is not ideal for this plant but I reduced the heat by fixing a green net over the plants. It helped," he said.
 
  There is no difficulty in handling the leaves, he said. "You need to put two leaves into water and add a bit of cinnamon power. Boil it for two minutes and consume the water. I have done all kinds of clinical tests and they show very positive results," said Venkat who is an ex-service man.
 
  It was with the 12 lakh cash he got from his insurance that Venkat started cultivating the insulin keerai at Arcot. "Since the idea was new, I didn't get any support other than my family. But I didn't look back, and today I am happy that the number of people who buy the leaf has increased. I am happy and will continue the service," he said. 
 
 
