NEW DELHI: As Egyptian  , said to be the world's heaviest woman, leaves India today, the doctor who agreed to treat her for obesity free of cost, tweeted that she will be missed. 

  In the meanwhile,her nurses said that while 
  - weighing half of what she did - she is now weighed down by her sister's allegations against the doctor and the hospital that treated her. 
 
 "May God Bless her to a super life ahead," tweeted Dr  , whose   in Mumbai volunteered to not just transport 36-year-old Eman to India in a special plane, but also agreed to perform weight-reduction bariatric surgery on her, all free of cost. 
 
 
  
  
  
  Eman's treatment - including the Rs 83 lakh flight from Alexandria to Mumbai - is said to have cost Rs 2 crore. The whole endeavour which started with great hope and goodwill ended controversially, with Eman's sister alleging - after Dr Lakdawala operated on her - that her sister's health worsened in the three months she's been under the doctor's care. 
 
  Lakdawala has called Eman's sister's comments unfortunate.
  
  "It is unfortunate that the allegations by a non-medical person are being listened to instead of a 13-member medical team's assessment. Eman is in better health than she has ever been," said the doctor to TOI.
  
  He added that Eman is in much better health now than she was before when she reportedly weighted close to 500 kilos.
  
  Dr Lakdawala described Eman's vitals from Friday.
  
  "Her Friday morning's blood report is as normal as any healthy person's report. It is difficult to imagine that until three months back her oxygen concentration was poor and her creatinine and potassium counts were dangerously off the mark," Dr Lakdawala told TOI.
  
  Saifee Hospital's staff has mixed feelings. They are immensely glad Eman is better but very sad about her sister's allegations, more so because they've upset Eman.
  
  Eman has several nicknames at Saifee. Among them are 'Emo' and 'Mona'. She was always friendly to the staff, but now, staff believe her sister has told her to not respond to friendly gestures anymore.
  
 "I have stitched Eman's clothes, pieced together diapers for her, and now she won't even smile at us, forget blowing her trademark kisses," said Sherly Koshy, a nurse at Saifee, to TOI.
 
 Eman is scheduled to leave today for a hospital in Abu Dhabi where her treatment is expected to continue.
 
 
 
