SHIMLA: Recent rains and hailstorms have caused extensive damage to crops, including apple, in Shimla and Kullu. While the Shimla district administration has pegged the loss to be roughly around Rs 36 crore, officials in Kullu are still assessing the loss.

 On Monay, Shimla deputy commissioner   said information collected by the horticulture department showed that apple, plum and apricot crops had suffered maximum damage. Besides, rains had also ruined orchards in the district. He said the loss to apple crop in two days of rain and hailstorm has been calculated to be Rs 33.42 crore while the agriculture department has pegged the loss to rabi and kharif crop at around Rs 1.6 crore.
 
  chairman Dr Subhash Chand Manglate, who hails from Chopal, said around 80% apple crop has been destroyed in his area. Barring Marhog area, where anti-hail gun have been installed, the remaining area suffered heavy losses due to hailstorm, he added.
 
 The inclement weather has dashed hopes of bumper crop in Kullu. “The storm has uprooted trees at various apple orchards. People in Nirmand region have suffered extensive damage. Growers have written to the administration to assess the losses and announce compensation,” said  , an apple grower from Anni.
 
 Another orchardist from Manali, Jagmohan Bisht said, “We expect a clear weather and rise in temperature in the coming days. Our expectations are now from mid and late flowering.”
 
 Blaming the state government for massive losses, former horticulture minister and senior BJP leader   said that the government failed to take effective steps. He said the previous BJP regime installed anti-hail guns in apple belts, but Virbhadra Singh-led government abandoned these guns.
 
 He said some farmers in the Baghi area in Shimla have installed three anti-hail guns from their own pocket, showing that these guns were helpful in preventing the crops. “Instead of trashing anti-hail guns, Congress government should have added more equipment to help the farmers,” he added.
 
