BENGALURU: The Centre’s decision to reduce stent   by 85% was greeted with cheers by citizens across the country. Now, in a bid to reduce the burden on pockets of Bengalureans who spend huge sums on tests, 45 diagnostic   have joined hands – a collaboration that will result in prices of many medical procedures being reduced by 40%, on average.

 For instance, while the average price for a MRI (single region) scan is Rs 9,000, these labs will charge Rs 5,500, a 38.8% reduction. Similarly, a MRI+additional screen, priced at Rs 10,000 will cost Rs 6,000, a 40% decrease. A CT (coronary angio) procedure, which’ll cost Rs 12,000 will be made available at Rs 7,500 at these labs – a 40% rebate.
 
 The organisation is called Association of Diagnostic Centres-Bengaluru. As on March 8, the association has 45 members, and it hopes to obtain more support. The association has shared a list of 26 tests, containing the existing and reduced prices, with TOI. The association also has plans of introducing uniform prices for more procedures in the future.
 
 “Most of the institutes are NABL (National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories) accredited, and are major laboratories,” said a statement from the association, which added that only 50 of the 1,000-odd laboratories in the city possessed high-end equipment.
 
 “With no regulatory mechanism to check prices that laboratories charge, patients are being fleeced. While there have always been a few institutes that have wanted to charge less, they were prevented from doing so because of the prevalent practices. Now, as a collective, we have been able to lower the prices,” said Rajesh Shenoy, an office bearer with the association.
 
 He added that the association would also make efforts to bring healthcare service providers indulging in corrupt and unethical practices to book. “We will bring such practices to the notice of organisations such as Karnataka Medical Council that can initiate disciplinary action against medical professionals, who fleece patients,” Shenoy added.
 
 
 
 
 The doctor-laboratory nexus in India, and Bengaluru is no exception, has been the subject of intense debates on multiple for a, but no concrete action has been taken. An article published by the British Medical Journal, ‘Corruption ruins doctor-patient relationship in India’, had described the nexus between doctors, laboratories and pharmaceutical companies.
 
 Union minister for science and technology Harsh Vardhan, who was minister for health in 2014, too had expressed similar concerns in the Lok Sabha. While the Institute for Human Development in 2015, discussed irrelevant and excessive diagnostic tests in an article in 2015, a study conducted by the National Medical Journal of India last year found that most tests were avoidable.
 
 This is a practice that the association wishes to put an end to. “If a sufficient number of laboratories offer uniform prices, we can prevent such corrupt practices,” Shenoy said.
 
 
