MUMBAI: An exclusive TOI report on BMC’s humungous bank deposits of Rs 61,510 crore was the focus of an uproar in the civic general body meeting on Friday, with   demanding an explanation from the administration. The newly elected corporators wanted to know why the administration failed to spend the money on upgrading the city’s infrastructure and civic amenities.

 They demanded that the   burden on citizens be reduced in the wake of so much money lying in banks, pointing out that the   was into providing public services and not into profit-making. 
 
 The report said the BMC, known more for its poor service delivery and largely responsible for the city’s decrepit condition, has Rs 61,510 crore in fixed deposits in 31 banks (including four private ones). 
 
 Public representatives stated that the civic body must not boost its bank balance when civic services have deteriorated and civic infrastructure is crumbling due to corruption and inefficiency.
 
 Under the law, BMC should keep a fixed amount aside (in fixed deposits) every year for contingency plans. Corporators demanded to know the break-up of the fixed deposit fund, as they believed a large part of it was what the civic authorities were unable to utilise for public work in the last few years.
 
 Former mayor and Shiv Sena corporator Snehal Ambekar said, “We are not a business organization involved in profit-making. We are into public service and the administration’s failure to spend budgetary provisions meant for public work, which is adding up to bank deposits, is not a good sign. We requested the administration to give us details of the works where they failed to use the allotted money.”
 
 BMC has consistently failed to spend even half of its budgetary provisions for five years even as citizens of the country’s financial capital suffered due to poor infrastructure, mediocre healthcare and ineffective planning. In 2016-17, the BMC was unable to spend half of its budget of Rs 12,957 crore meant for public work till February. Money the administration is unable to use lapses at the end of each financial year and most of it goes into fixed deposits. In 2011-12, the civic authorities spent 49% ( Rs 2,154 crore ) of the allocated budget, 37.6% (Rs 2,257 crore) in 2012-13, 38.2% (Rs 2,344 crore) in 2013-14, a slightly better 49.7% (Rs 4,035 crore) in 2014-15 and 38.2% (Rs 3,561 crore) in 2015-16.
 
 Congress corporator Asif Zakaria said, “The civic body has a Rs 61,510-crore fund in fixed deposits, so there is no need to keep increasing water taxes every year along with other taxes. There is no need to put an additional tax   on citizens when we have sufficient contingency funds. The civic authorities work for public welfare and not for profit-making.”
 
 Samajwadi Party group leader Rais Shaikh said, “The fund accumulated during the tenure of the ruling party and now suddenly it is concerned about it. The Shiv Sena should instruct the administration not to raise taxes. The administration is getting Rs 4,500 crore as interest from the fixed deposits, which is the total expenditure every year. So there is no need to tax citizens.”
 
 
