BHOPAL: Heavy rains have taken a toll on animal health as more and more pet parents are visiting the   hospital with their furry friends. According to the hospital records, over 2,200 animals have come to the hospital in the last week as compared to around 1,400 on a normal day.

 Veterinary surgeon, Dr Vishakha Ahirwar, said, “Usually, we receive about 200 cases a day, but these days the number has gone up. On some days we even see 450 cases. Dogs have been the worst affected by the weather.” “Since the rains have begun incidences of vomiting, diarrhoea, fever and fungal skin infection. Animals are more vulnerable to infectious diseases during this season,” Ahirwar said.
 
 The increased footfall has left the under-staffed hospital overburdened. On most days, there are just two doctors and two supporting staff to look after the patients. “There have been days when there is only one doctor handling the floor,” said a staff member. “There are only seven people posted at the hospital at present — one deputy director, one pathologist, and five doctors who work in shifts. Since there are three shifts, we have to manage the hospital among ourselves, often letting go of our weekly offs,” said Ahirwar.
 
 Due to lack of medical staff in the hospital, patients have to wait in long queues, even for small procedures and routine check-ups. “We have been waiting for two and a half hours just to see the doctor. My dog is ill. They should hire more people if they cannot keep up with the number of patients,” said G S Visen, who brought his 8-year-old pet dog, Tuk-Tuk to the hospital on Sunday. Tuk-Tuk was suffering from diarrhoea and itchiness. In addition to long waiting hours, the patients also complain that they have to buy medicines themselves, despite the hospital being a government-run facility.   was at the hospital with his pet turtle   who has an eye-infection. “Even after coming to a government hospital. I have to go out and buy medicines, why?” said Hussain.
 
 Veterinary surgeon, Brajesh Gupta, said, “Our medicine stock is low. We only have anti-rabies vaccine. We also fall short of medicines and injections many times.” According to Gupta, they have alerted the authorities many times but there has been no response from them.
 
