PATNA/RANCHI:   chief   termed the   raids at his residence following an FIR on him, his wife   and their younger son and Bihar deputy CM Tejashwi Prasad Yadav as misuse of the central government machinery at the behest of BJP national President Amit Shah and PM  . He said the move is to demoralize him and break the Grand Alliance in Bihar.

 “Suno Modi, Amit Shah, faansi ke fande par latak jaayenge lekin tumhara ahankaar, buniyaad choor choor kar denge (Lisetn Shah and Modi, I am ready to be hanged but would crush your foundation and arrogance),” Lalu said at his 10, Circular Road residence after coming back from Ranchi where he appeared before a special CBI court in connection with a fodder scam case.
 
 “The CBI is not at much fault as are Amit Shah and Narendra Modi for lodging a false complaint against me. I was told that many officers, in fact, told my family during the search that they were under pressure from the central government. It is nothing but political vendetta. The Centre is targeting me and my family because I have resolved to remove the Narendra Modi government and BJP from the country.”
 
 Lalu also attacked the central government for involving his younger son Tejashwi and wife Rabri in the case for baseless reasons. “Tejashwi was a minor at the time of allotment of the said hotels. Rabri was also not a public figure at that time,” Lalu said.
 
 The RJD chief said he has asked for an inventory list from the CBI for the raid conducted at his residence. “I had talked to the CBI officers before the raids and they had told me it was only a search exercise. Accordingly, I asked my family to cooperate,” Lalu said.
 
 Addressing media persons at Ranchi earlier in the morning, Lalu said, “It was under my tenure that the railways incurred profit, but I never resorted to corrupt practices.”
 
 Lalu defended his family by saying that due procedures were followed in the allotment of the two hotels of  , in connection with which the raids were conducted at 12 locations by the CBI.
 
 “For Ranchi and Puri-based railway hotels, the same party had qualified, whereas in Delhi, the Tatas were given the responsibility,” he said and added that under the same scheme, a Delhi-based hotel is generating Rs1 crore as licence fee to the railways.
 
