A 39-year-old doctor living at the posh   in   committed suicide, leaving behind an eight-page note blaming her husband and   for harassing her. Dr Maunavi Shah alleged in the suicide note that in her 10-year marriage, her husband Niraj Shah denied her conjugal rights and constantly tortured her for dowry. Based on her suicide note, the Vastrapur police have filed an abetment of suicide case against the in-laws and husband. According to Maunavi’s lawyer, she was under severe depression since her husband filed for divorce in February 2017.

 Maunavi, who worked at a private hospital in Thaltej, got married to Niraj, a resident of   in Vasna, on June 26, 2006. She has alleged in the note that the problems began right after the wedding. “She has claimed that during the couple’s honeymoon to Shimla, Niraj refused to have physical relationship with her. Her note further alleges that despite several attempts from her part to normalize their marriage, Niraj remained a non-participant,” the police said. Maunavi wrote that Niraj’s behaviour became a reason for severe strain between the couple. The note also alleged that Niraj demanded Rs 10 lakh from her to apply for a visa to Canada and when she refused, he abused her.
 
 “She claimed that her refusal to give him the money enraged him and he asked her to go home to her mother. She lived with her mother for some time. Intervention from community elders and family members led to a truce but that did not last long. Maunavi has also alleged that her in-laws stood by her husband and blamed her for the problems in the marriage,” sources said. Maunavi’s advocate Alka Jain told Mirror, “Despite all the troubles, Maunavi wanted to reconcile with Niraj and save her marriage.
 
 She constantly tried to talk to him but he did not want to listen to her. When he filed for divorce, it broke her and she went into a depression. She would tell me that she had no will to live anymore as she had failed to save her marriage. I think she hanged herself in a state of depression.” Maunavi’s family refused to speak to Mirror. Vastrapur PSI R K Vaniya said “We have filed a complaint against Niraj and his family members and started investigation based on the suicide note.” Meanwhile, Mirror visited Niraj’s residence in Vasna but he, his mother Aruna and sister-in-law Nipa had left home. Neighbours said they had not been home since Maunavi’s death on April 29.
 
