MUMBAI: Parliament passed the   on Tuesday, which stipulates that the heirs of Indians who migrated to   no longer have any claim upon their properties in India. These structures now belong to the  .

 There are 13   properties in  , mostly in South Mumbai, whose tenants are keen to see if the new Act will help them repair and sell flats, and more importantly, redevelop these old properties, which were all built before 1968. Most are owned by Muslims, a few by Parsis and one by Sindhi migrants.
 
 The list opens with a bungalow near the Worli end of the Sealink named Kishori Court, once owned by a courtesan named Kishori Alladitta who migrated to Pakistan. Then there are the Lakhwanis’ spacious flats in Naples Building, Colaba, which are reportedly under litigation. Also classified as enemy   are “three tin sheds” among the dingy hardware workshops in Kharwa Galli, Kumbharwada. Irrespective of financial status, each tenant wants to see the infamous tag of enemy property removed from the front door.
 
 Large properties have multiple tenants but there is always one individual or family who is spokesperson or charge d’affairs and manages the upkeep of the building and liaises with the Custodian of Enemy Property. The custodian, whose office is located at Ballard Estate, collects a petty sum as rent and is responsible for maintenance.
 
 TOI had visited Kishori Court in 2010 when the revised   was tabled in Parliament. At the time, tenant Kirti Shah had said that several builders were interested in redeveloping the site given its proximity to the Sealink. But they did not know whom to deal with. On Wednesday, Shah said, “I hope the path will be smoother now. Redevelopment would be a boon.”
 
 Another well-maintained structure is Sorab House, Colaba. A Parsi family on the first floor has spruced up the bungalow. “I am happy for us, but I sympathize with the (litigant) Raja of Mahmudabad who has lost vast properties in Uttar Pradesh owing to this new law,” said the matriarch who has been living here since 1960.
 
 Each enemy property has a plaque embedded in the compound wall proclaiming its status in order to warn prospective tenants, buyers and redevelopers about the legal tangle should they wish to invest. However, the tenants of Sorab House have removed the plaque.
 
 Meanwhile, the always freshly painted Moti Cinema in Grant Road (East) is another landmark. “We hope the Act is a big positive that will rid us of the negative connotations of enemy property. A freehold title will be welcome,” said the owner of the theatre. Saeed Kadu, lawyer at Bombay high court, lives in Rose Chamber, an enemy property located near Umerkhadi Children’s Home in Dongri. 
 
 He says, “For several decades, such buildings have languished for want of attention. At least we now have a landlord.”
 
