NEW DELHI:   were the hallmarks of  , they say. One gets a feel of it at 1, Motilal Nehru Marg, the bungalow where India’s second PM spent the last 14 years of his life, from 1952 to 1966.

 Now called the  , every nook and cranny of this modest Lutyens’ Delhi bungalow tells the story of this freedom fighter from Mughalsarai who liked to maintain a low profile even in public life. And despite being the most powerful man in the country, he was a family man who, as a caretaker put it, “put out his bathing soap to dry in the sun after use to ensure that it lasted longer”.
 
 Shastri is often understood as someone fated to be overshadowed by two contemporary greats of history—Jawaharlal Nehru in his lifetime, and Mahatma Gandhi after death as he shared his birthday. It’s Gandhi whose birthday was remembered. And even though the Modi and Yogi governments paid generous tributes to Shastri through newspaper ads on Monday, Gandhi’s spectacles still stared at him from the Swachh Bharat logo.
 
 The memorial, however, tells a different tale. TOI visited it on Monday. One only has to look at the first exhibit there—a tiny room—to understand that. It was where Shastri had held his first cabinet meeting in 1964 after being told that he was India’s new Prime Minister. He had large shoes to fill, after all Nehru was larger than life. But the diminutive Shastri was no small man, although India’s adversaries thought him to be.
 
 Back then, Indian leaders were pejoratively referred to as “dhoti prasads” by the Pakistan military. As the legendary Lieutenant General Harbaksh Singh later remarked, “The (Indian) Army could never forget the tallest order from the shortest man.” That order was to cross the International Border and take the 1965 War to Pakistan’s doorstep. And that he could take such a step despite India suffering from a food crisis at the time was indeed remarkable.
 
 In fact, Shastri had himself shown the way to get out of the food crisis—by asking Indians to skip one meal a day for a while, and by himself growing wheat at his front yard. The harvest of that effort is visible today, even literally (the crop is on display at the museum).
 
 That Shastri could feel the pulse of the farmers and soldiers made him such an effective leader. And that’s why his slogan ‘Jai Jawan Jai Kisan’ resonated among all classes of people. The spirit of the message was embodied in a sculpture that makes one remember the great ‘Worker and Kolkhoz Woman’ sculpture that embodied the Soviet Union’s spirit. And it was in the   (Tashkent) that Shastri breathed his last, in his hour of success. 
 
 The museum has on display nuggets of Shastri’s public and private life. The footfall, however, doesn’t seem to be quite enough even though the custodians of the memorial claim that up to 2,000 people visit it on Mondays and nearly 700 on other days. We saw only a handful of people.
 
 One reason could be the ban on photography and cellphones inside. A thin selfie crowd was visible only outside where the biggest artefact of Shastri’s life is on display—a   car he had purchased with a bank loan. The loan was repaid by his widow,  , from her husband’s pension. She outlived him by 27 years. When she passed away in 1993, the house was converted into a museum.
 
 
