PUNE: Even as the city recorded 3.5% rise in voter turnout as against  , voting pattern remained largely the same.
Keeping the parties on edge, voters from slum areas, who are the prime target of political parties, stepped out only in the last hour before the close of polls.The   in the last minute also led the process to continue till late night.
 
 On the other hand, pre-noon session saw a steady growth in voting, which was dominated by voters from housing societies, salaried class, families and youngsters who had already made their mind about their choice of candidates. Sources said that voting in the last two hours could play a vital role in the results.
 
 According to the data, of the 55.5% voter turnout, over 25% was registered in the last four hours, after1.30pm. The trend clearly indicates that voting gained momentum late in the day .
 
 Despite scorching weather, voters preferred to wait till afternoon to cast their votes. The lowest voting of 10% was recorded in the city in the first two hours, after which it jumped by almost 9.5% and reached 19.5% in the next two hours.
 
 Abooth worker from   area said he noticed a steady increase in turnout. “Initially there was rush when candidates and their supporters exercised their franchise. But then it petered out. People from slums waited till afternoon,“ he said.
 
 Another booth agent said individual voters turned up in significant numbers till afternoon.However, the post-lunch session saw voters residing in the same neighbourhood trooping together. “ It may be because political party leaders approached them and took them to cast their votes,“ an agent said.
 
 Aparty leader said, “Last minute rush for voting is a common phenomenon in civic polls. This is because civic elections see many candidatures in every panel, which makes it difficult for voters to choose. Also, the candidates are locals and voters wait till candidates approach them with assurances. It becomes a prestige issue for voters who seek assurances from candidates.“
 
