JAIPUR: Already in  , the state   focused on preparations for the  , in Monday's meeting of the  

 Assembly polls in the state are scheduled for 2018 but the state BJP is already gearing up for it. Addressing the state working committee members during the committee’s maiden meeting, chief minister   said, “We have redefined the parameters of development in the state. Now is the time for all party members to work with dedication. We will win the next assembly elections, anyhow. It is the BJP which will again come to power.’’
 
 Advising the members of the committee to lead by example, she said that all should work for strengthening the party. “There is not much time left for the elections and all work should now work with vigor and zeal to ensure that the party comes back to power, which would be for the betterment of the state,” she said. The chief minister said that district party presidents along with other office bearers will work on selection on identifying winnable candidates for the elections.
 
 “We are one big family, unlike other political parties. We believe in cooperation and coordination. There is no internal conflict among us and in such a situation nobody can snatch power from us,’’ she added, also directing the members to propagate the flagship programmes of the government and to ensure that maximum people in the state can avail the benefits of these.
 
 Addressing the media after the meeting, state party president Ashok Parnami shared the details of the development in the meeting. He said that during the meeting party passed a political resolution supporting the GST bill.
 
 Talking about the state party’s ‘Vistarak’ (expansionist) programme, he said that the state unit will appoint 50,000 ‘Vistaraks’ on the lines of RSS ‘Pracharaks’, with an aim to strengthen the party in the state. “The ‘Vistaraks’ will not be allowed to contest elections and would have to work outside their home districts to strengthen the party,” he said.
 
 'Vistaraks' will work for a period of fortnight, one month, two months, three months, six months, one year and two years. During this, they will work to propagate the party and the government policies at the grass-root level, he said. Selection process for the ‘Vistaraks’ has already begun.
 
 
