Mumbai: Omidyar-backed startup  , which has pioneered technology that enables central banks issue fiat currency in digital form, has made a strong pitch for using software as a form factor for currency. The Dublin-headquartered company has set up an arm in India, and has made presentations to both the government and the  .

  is distinct from digital payments, which are more in the nature of messaging aimed at moving money between bank accounts. In e-currency, the lines of code are the currency itself and this code can be transferred and stored in simple objects like a metro ticket with a magnetic stripe or in mobile devices. The code can also be sent using smart phones or even through feature phones using text messages.  , a former investment banker and son of former prime minister  , has joined   Mint as chairman India.
 
 “eCurrency is a package that includes hardware, software, and cryptographic security protocols to enable a country’s central bank to issue digital fiat currency and manage its operation,” said Jonathan Dharmapalan, founder and CEO, eCurrency Mint. He added that besides being cheaper than paper currency, it was possible to set rules so that the government can determine the level of anonymity, prevent hoarding, demonetise and remonetise remotely in a frictionless manner. He adds that the existing digital payment mechanism can be used to make transactions. “I will not say that the transactions will be free, but it will be close to free. It will be like sending an email, there is a cost but the cost is negligible,” said Dharmapalan.
 
 Prior to launching eCurrency, Dharmapalan was head of global telecommunication centre at Ernst & Young LLP. According to Dharmapalan, there is no equivalent of eCurrency. Although there are cryptocurrencies like Bitcoins, they are positioned as alternatives to currency, and do not have any legal sanction. eCurrency on the other hand can be issued only with legal sanction and merely provides a different form factor to paper currency.
 
 In India, the committee headed by Ratan P Watal, former finance secretary, had acknowledged the presentation of a case for digitally issued Indian currency, as a means to substitute physical currency. The committee noted that such currency retains the characteristics of paper money, would have to be issued by the RBI, and used by way of hardware modules. “The security of the currency is ensured by cryptographic technology, inspired by existent security features on physical currency. The most significant benefit however, is that the technology makes it extremely difficult to counterfeit, and more importantly enables the central bank to detect the existence of counterfeit currency on a real-time basis,” the report said.
 
 
