Nagpur: Junior lawyers practising at the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court were upset after their demand to conduct election debate of candidates contesting for president, secretary and executive committee seats, was rejected.

 With a view to know the views of contestants, the young lawyers made a representation to the existing body of High Court Bar Association (HCBA) for conducting debate in US-style presidential elections. However, the executive committee rejected the proposal after its meeting.
 
 The lawyers claimed that it was done without assigning any specific reason.
 
 “We were told that it would set a wrong precedent in the elections and compromise with the dignity of lawyers associated with the higher judiciary. We don’t see this as a concrete reason to suppress our genuine demand,” the lawyers told TOI.
 
 HCBA President Arun Patil confirmed that the request was turned down by the executive panel after much deliberation. “A dignity is associated with the HCBA polls which have been held over the years without any controversy. These are not college elections. Usually, in such debates, the candidates and topics get deviated towards unnecessary issues,” Patil said.
 
 He said the HCBA suggested the lawyers to sit at lounge located on the premises of Nagpur bench and had one-to-one interaction with the prospective candidates over various issues. “The candidates are not going to have a specific agenda or manifesto to contest these polls, unlike politicians. Therefore, we’ve taken the decision in larger interest,” he told TOI.
 
 The young lawyers explained that they wanted to provide a chance to the candidates to speak their mind on why they were contesting the polls and what plans they were having for the voters.
 
 “They could have disclosed their manifesto or their proposed agenda, intentions, views and newer ideas to develop the bar association or to bring out changes. The election debate not only grants opportunity to the contestants to speak their mind, but also helps the voters to be in a better position to exercise their franchise,” they said.
 
 The elections would be held on February 10 for 16 posts of executive panel that includes one president, two vice-presidents, one secretary, joint secretary, library in-charge, and treasurer, along with nine members.
 
 The young lawyers questioned HCBA’s claims on dignity reminding them of the 2010 polls fiasco when some overenthusiastic lawyers coupled with some court officials, including clerks, allegedly burst crackers, danced to the tunes of band, and even opened champagne bottles right inside the prohibited premises of historic high court complex declared as silence zone. Surprisingly, no one was punished.
 
 
