NASHIK: The stage is set for a   between various   in the forthcoming   elections slated on May 24. 

 Of the total 84 seats in 21 prabhags, polls will take place for 83 seats as a Congress nominee, Kishwari Ashraf Kureshi, has won the seat from prabhag 1 (C) unopposed. 
 
 Two interesting aspects of the elections this time at Malegaon, traditionally a Congress bastion, is that for the first time the BJP has fielded a record number of 56 candidates. And over 50% of them hail from the minority community.
 
 In fact, the party had filed nominations for 82 seats but the nominations of 26 candidates were rejected by the authorities following anomalies in their nomination papers. 
 
 In the last civic polls in Malegaon BJP failed to put up even a single candidate.
 
 This time, however, the stupendous performance of BJP in other civic body polls across the state have apparently generated much enthusiasm among a section of the local leaders, who were keen to contest the polls on party ticket. Sources said over 200 aspirants turned out during the interviews to select the candidates. 
 
 The other highlight is that Asaduddin Owaisi led Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (MIM) is contesting the polls here for the first time and has fielded 35 candidates. Owaisi has already addressed two rallies at Malegaon and is likely to address a few more before the polls. 
 
 The Congress party, which has fielded 73 candidates, has a strong base in the eastern zone of Malegaon, consisting of 60 seats in 16 prabhags. 
 
 And given the fact that  , which is contesting from 26 seats, and BJP are fighting the polls separately, Congress would have found it rather easy to continue its winning streak like 2012 polls as it expects division of votes from the majority community between BJP and Sena.
 
 In the 2012 polls Congress had emerged as the single-largest party winning 25 seats. 
 
 But the problem with Congress this time is that the MIM, which is a serious player in this electoral battle, could mar Congress’s chances by splitting the minority votes. 
 
 Moreover, other parties like the NCP-Janata Dal combine which is contesting 62 seats are also eying votes from the minority community. 
 
 The electorate from the minority community plays a crucial role in shaping the destiny of candidates in over 60 seats. Hence, majority of the political parties go all out to woo voters from that community. 
 
 This civic polls will be an acid test for some of the local political stalwarts, including minister of state and the local Shiv Sena MLA Dada Bhuse, Congress legislator Asif Shaikh and the BJP leaders Advay Hire, Sunil Gaikwad and Dada Jadhav, who is the district (rural) BJP chief. 
 
 Under Bhuse, the Shiv Sena did not fare well in the zilla parishad and panchayat polls and he is now going all out to ensure that the party puts up a good show in the civic polls. Similarly, Shaikh has to ensure that Malegaon continues to remain a Congress bastion despite BJP’s surge in popularity across the state. The BJP trio is leaving no stone unturned to prove to the high command that like in other civic body polls the party would taste success in Malegaon, too.
 
