MUMBAI: A recent move of Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) to award a Rs 72-crore contract to fix safety   barriers and overhead signboards along   Expressway is being opposed by motorists and NGOs. Watchdog Foundation, an NGO, has written to Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) and Lokayukta, questioning the state infrastructure arm’s alleged benevolence to IRB Infra Developers Ltd, a private toll collector of the  , at the cost of public money. Motorists attached to the foundation said IRB has to install those facilities for free, as per the toll collection and maintenance contract.

 An IRB spokesperson clarified that since the company was a concessionaire, it had to only maintain the infrastructure, and addition of assets and capital expenditure on them was not part of the contract. An MSRDC official said the work was not part of the maintenance contract, but as suggested by the road safety committee. He admitted that the contract signed in 2004 did not include conditions such as “buy-backing” it, profit-sharing between government and contractor, accountability for certain maintenance measures, and stringent action on scrapping of contract in case of breach of agreement.
 
 “Floating a separate contract for such work, which is part of the contract, is an injustice to public money. As per the terms of the 864-page agreement, IRB is duty-bound to maintain the entire   at its cost, which includes fixing safety crash barriers,” said foundation trustees Nicholas Almeida and Godfrey Pimenta. “The toll contract was awarded to IRB Ltd in 2004 against an upfront payment of Rs 918 crore to MSRDC, and according to MSRDC’s projections, by the end of the concession period (March 2019), IRB was to earn a revenue of Rs 2,809 crore. But as per figures published by MSRDC, IRB has till June 2016 collected Rs 2,703 crore, and crossed the said figure by December 2016, going by toll collection figures, and may recover more than the required profits by 2019,” the letter said.
 
 The IRB spokesperson said, “Since handing over of the contract in 2004, IRB is scrupulously complying with all requirements and provisions of the agreement. The agreement’s scope restricts IRB to operations and maintenance of the project and its allied assets. The agreement does not provide for addition of assets and capital expenditure required to be incurred; hence, it is beyond our scope as a concessionaire.” 
 
 
