Curtorim: Curtorim’s primary   (PHC) is in urgent need of attention. The health centre, which tends to 60-90 patients daily from Curtorim and surrounding villages of Macasana, Chandor, St Jose de Areal, Guirdolim and Davorlim, lacks adequate number of doctors and upgraded medical equipment to conduct tests. Patients suffering from cough are also affected as the   is unavailable since the last six months and no alternative medicine is available.

 “The 12-bedded Curtorim PHC with provision of six beds each, for males and females, provides succour to people suffering from various ailments, including fever, malaria, asthma, diabetes, blood pressure etc. Apart from housing facilities for eye and dental care, it also provides care on obstetrics. It also has an ambulance to transfer critical patients and accident victims to Hospicio,” said medical officer Dr Angelo Mascarenhas.
 
 “Skeletal number of doctors and withdrawal of the Tercoff syrup since the past six months without making any other   has severely affected the patients suffering from cough,” he added.
 
 The PHC lacks upgraded modern infrastructure to   and imaging tests like X-ray, ultrasound, sonography etc. The centre only offers basic blood tests to check haemoglobin, blood count and malaria detection. Dearth of important testing facilities and specialist doctors forces patients towards Hospicio, the already overworked district hospital in Margao.
 
 “Curtorim PHC should have facilities of specialists and surgeons to attend to various types of sickness and body conditions like limb or arm fractures, fevers and headaches including typhoid, dengue, leptospirosis etc. It is foolishness to refer a patient from a PHC to a district hospital for non-life threatening ailments like typhoid, which can be diagnosed and treated at the primary level. The present health centre of Curtorim should be upgraded to a community hospital on the lines that exists in Chicalim and it, in turn, will cater to advanced medical tests and better treatment. It should cater to patients referred by four to five surrounding PHCs. District hospital should be left to attend to extremely serious medical cases like heart attack or serious head or burn injury,” said physician and educationist Ernesto Rodrigues of Curtorim’s Anvattem vaddo.
 
 Curtorim MLA Aleixo Reginaldo Lourenco said that the government must upgrade Curtorim PHC with modern medical facilities. “There should be no compromise on the regular availability of all medicines and quality treatment by specialists, be it fever or cold or diabetes or blood pressure or treatment for rabies,” he said. Deputy chief minister and health minister Francis D’Souza said that Tercoff syrup has been banned by the central government and hence no alternative can be provided by Goa government until it is cleared by the Centre.
 
 “Reluctance on the part of government doctors to freely accept transfers in PHCs in various parts of the state has hampered our efforts. Most government doctors want urban postings,” D’Souza said.
 
 Curtorim panchayat member Santan Rodrigues, as well as resident and ex-headmaster Gromiko Fernandes, both pitch for the revival of a watchdog body that was set up by villagers to monitor the PHC almost a decade ago, but is now defunct.
 
 
