JAIPUR: Pavements are meant to provide people a safe walking passage along the city roads. In Jaipur, however, the pavements are serving every other purpose but allowing pedestrians to walk. The worst part is, here it is the government that has shown others how to misuse the footpaths. And this is how it has done that:

 Almost every Saras dairy booth in the city has been allowed to come up right in the middle of footpaths. Roadways ticket kiosks have been set up on pavements meant for pedestrians. Even water-huts and urinals have been constructed on the footpaths. Interestingly, parking vehicles on the footpaths has been informally accepted as a legal thing to do here. All this indicates how various arms of the government are leading in ‘encroaching’ upon the walking space of the citizens.
 
 The pavement near the iconic Statue Circle, in the heart of the city, is a testimony to all kinds of ‘misuses’ to which a footpath can be put to. The pavements from the Statute Circle to the   have a Saras dairy booth, water-hut, tea-coffee kiosks, urinals and parking spaces.
 
 While the pavements here have been rendered useless, thanks to several encroachments, the condition of other footpaths in the city is no better. At the  , another of the city’s busy roundabouts, the pavement houses RSRTC’s ticket kiosk as well as several small eateries.
 
 “The   condition here is awful. Due to lack of walking space, pedestrians are forced to risk their lives by walking on the roads,” said a traffic constable, who did not wish to be named.
 
 The government’s indifference towards the pavements speaks volumes about why so many pedestrians in the city get knocked off by speeding vehicles. Jaipur once took pride in having broad pavements with trees and plants at regular intervals for shade. As the city’s vehicular traffic increased in the past two decades, the authorities went after easy options and started reducing the walking space for pedestrians.
 
 Abhimanyu Soni, a pedestrian, said footpaths have been either turned into parking spaces or have been made unusable due to encroachments. “On several roads near   and near  , we find roadways buses being parked illegally on the pavements. The government authorities should make some provisions to keep these footpaths free of encroachments,” he said.
 
 The situation is worse near parks and schools where students and their grandparents are forced to walk along the speeding traffic on busy roads. One can find temporary encroachments too on the pavements. Two giant steel structures have been blocking the pavements areas near the Central Park for many weeks now. Similarly, sometimes an entire stretch of the pavement is dug up to lay underground cables.
 
