MUMBAI: When a tourist lands in Los Angeles, and heads for  , the anticipation of a larger-than-life tryst grows by the moment, thanks to the signboards set up along the way. If everything goes as per plan, visitors to Mumbai may also have similar experience while going to visit the  .

  Ajoy Mehta has directed   to devise a plan to develop the road leading to the Film City in a way that visitors get the feel of Bollywood even before getting a glimpse of the studios and natural locations inside the 500-odd acre campus— or even while being a few kilometres away. In fact, officials have been asked to design the area on the lines of Hollywood.
 
 Mehta told TOI: “Yes, we are keen on improving the stretch leading to the Film City. The Film City road needs to be developed especially considering that every day numerous people flock the Film City, including tourists. I have already instructed my officials to work on a plan. We want to place signboards so that it stands out to be a much attractive tourist destination.” 
 
 Sources said there are also plans to create dedicated areas or enclosures where visitors can meet film personalities and take photographs with them. In fact it is learnt that BMC is also in talks with the Maharashtra Film Stage And Cultural Development Corporation Ltd , a state government undertaking, to understand how could they improve the area around Film City.
 
 Sources said the idea was born when Mehta went to inspect the community toilets restored by actor Salman Khan for tribals and slum dwellers within the Aarey Colony near Film City. Salman is the brand ambassador for BMC’s campaign for the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan (Clean India Mission). During the visit to the area with the actor, Mehta noticed the poor condition of the Film City road, which is under the BMC jurisdiction, and the ambience of the area and came up with the revamp plan, sources said.
 
 Filmmaker Ashoke Pandit said that while it was a great idea to develop the road, the civic body could look at taking the help of art directors. “Right from the Goregoan Flyover up to the Film City, the entire road is in a bad shape, with footpaths at some stretches taken over by hawkers. Therefore it's a good idea if the BMC is considering to develop it. The road needs to be designed to look like one is entering the Film City and this could be done well if people from the industry and the BMC do it jointly,” said Pandit.
 
 
