NEW DELHI: “I do not go to toilet after 5pm because it is not safe,” said Muskan, a Class VII student in Lal Kuan in south Delhi. Her house does not have a toilet at home and her mother is aware of the risk of sexual assaults women face when relieving themselves in the open. So she has forbidden her growing daughter from venturing out after dark.

 Many women in Lal Kuan hold out like Muskan does after dusk. Lal Kuan falls in the Pul Pehladpur municipal ward, where 150 households have been without  . It is one of the 12 South   wards, where work is on to make open defecation a thing of the past. 
 
 SDMC declared 92 of its 104 wards free of this social embarrassment in May, and hopes to include all the wards by October 2.
 
 Of the 434 cities assessed by the Swachh Survekshan 2017, SDMC ranked a low 196th, its prestige marred by the existence of open defecation despite having more funds for sanitation than many of the cities surveyed. Large swathes of BPL families don’t have toilets at home, a major obstacle being the cumbersome process of getting the Rs 4,000 given as subsidy to install latrines.
 
 “They tell us to file an online application with details of our bank accounts when we don’t have smartphones or internet access,” grumbled Dular Chand of Pul Pehladpur. “In any case, the money is too little. A toilet costs Rs 10,000 to construct.” Since manually submitted applications are not accepted at the SDMC zonal office, Nand Kishore, father of six children, like many others, has not applied for the financial assistance.
 
 With the date for freeing south Delhi of open defecation just three months away, mayor Kamaljeet Sehrawat has decided the online application system can be bypassed. “If a BPL family sends me a letter requesting toilet subsidy, I will accept it as an application. After officials verify the applicant’s details, we will release the subsidy,” declared Sehrawat.
 
 But the same level of commitment is missing in SDMC’s offices. One executive engineer, for instance, could not even name the two wards under his jurisdiction where work on providing toilets was going on. His boss did not know names of the deficient 12 wards.
 
 On Thursday, SDMC organised an awareness campaign in some wards, an official informed. Such steps are important considering that many families, like those in Kusumpur Pahari, continue to defecate in the open despite adding toilet facilities to their houses with SDMC assistance.
 
 The social problem is most visible in areas lying close to railway tracks and big drains. In such places, the   is mandated to provide community toilets, but the rail authorities have not given permission for the use of their land for the purpose. 
 
 “This is a hurdle in our effort to free the 12 wards of open defecation,” said SDMC spokesperson Mukesh Yadav.
 
 
