CHENNAI: When a few Class X students step into the chambers of   at the Chennai High School in Sharma Nagar, Vyasarpadi, she introduces them as ' .'

 A term coined by the corporation's deputy commissioner (education) M Govinda Rao to describe slow learners and   in Classes X and XII, teachers have been asked to channel more energy into coaching such candidates so that the civic body's schools can achieve a greater pass percentage in the upcoming board examinations.
 
 While regular hours are between 9am and 3pm, for the challengers school begins as early as 7am and extends late into the evening. At her school, Rajivi ensures the students stick around until 8.30 pm. "All under-performers have a difficult family background. They don't have the atmosphere at home to study and that is why we keep them at school for as long as possible," Rajivi said. The focused coaching sessions mean that the schools can offer challengers more one-on-one time with teachers. 
 
 At the Chennai Higher Secondary School on TH Road, headmistress P Juliet Ganathepam has to ensure the sessions run like clockwork, though her school has students who come from far-off places like Minjur and Athipet. "We wind up before 6pm. But no child can avoid the training by giving excuses. If they are missing, we ring their parents to know their whereabouts," she said.
 
 Together, these two schools have over 100 challengers. Across the city, in all high and higher secondary schools, question banks have been supplied to help challengers score better in one mark questions. Students undergoing the training were positive that it would help them clear the subjects they were lagging in.
 
 "Communicating with them (students) and trying to inculcate them with confidence will help bring the best out of them," said Govinda Rao.
 
  The schools ensure that students are well-nourished in between their long hours of study. "The students are fed three meals and provided snacks during the evening," said Rajivi, adding that breakfast and dinner are procured from the nearby Amma canteen. The lunch is covered under the state government's noon meal scheme.
 
