CHENNAI: The impact of drought in   has started to be felt. Rice now costs Rs 56 a kg, the highest ever, while prices of products like cashew, sugar, pepper have also increased sharply.

 Raw rice, which could be had at Rs 47 a kg in the wholesale market in January 2015, cost Rs 56 on Tuesday, a jump of nearly 19%. The price of sugar rose from Rs 31 a kg to Rs 43 a kg, a rise of nearly 39%, while that of cashew soared by a massive 84% over the two-year period. Retail prices were nearly 5% more. Ghee prices too have climbed steeply by nearly 25% in the past week -from Rs 5,300 for a 15 kg tin to Rs 6,500 a tin. “This is an unprecedented rise in one week,“ said a trader.
 
 “I have never seen such a pathetic condition in the delta (Cauvery delta) in the last 65 years,“ S Ranganathan, general secretary,  , told TOI. This is the first time in many years that the southwest monsoon and northeast monsoon have failed and there have been many farm sui cides. On an average, 83 lakh tonnes of paddy are cultivated in the delta. “This time, I will be happy if it's 35 lakh-40 lakh tonnes,“ Ranganathan said, adding that the yield could be poor even in areas ready for harvest. The erratic rainfall in   has further fuelled prices that can only be tamed, say traders, by releasing rice from the strategic reserves and increasing supply through the   (PDS). “There is limited scope for a further increase in rice prices,“ one trader said, but added that if speculative buying set in, the price of the staple food could touch Rs 60 a kg this summer.
 
 Last year was the driest monsoon in Tamil Nadu since 1901, with a deficit of nearly 65%, forcing the government to declare, early last month, all the 32 districts “drought hit“.
 
 Sugar prices are firm too. “This year has been a good one for sugar mills. Prices are firm. But next fiscal could be a problem as the area under cultivation is falling due to drought in Tamil Nadu,“ said N  , finance director of the Murugappa group. Several mills expect a shortfall in domestic production next fiscal, paving the way for imports.
 
