NAGPUR: Baroda in   has finally been selected as the venue for the 91st Akhil Bharatiya Marathi Sahitya Sammelan after a lot of wrangling over the past week. This will be the first sammelan Baroda will be hosting the prestigious literary meet after India got independence, the last being held in 1934.

 Voices of dissent started gaining ground after Akhil Bharatiya Marathi Sahitya Mahamandal decided to hold the literary meet at Vivekanand Ashram at   in   district. The venue got embroiled in controversy as members of Akhil Bharatiya Andhashraddha Nirmulan Samiti started levelling allegations that “Shukdas Maharaj, who headed the ashram, used to prescribe allopathic medicines to his followers despite being a fourth class pass out”. TOI had earlier reported that the anti-superstitious body had even threatened to launch protests if the mahamandal went ahead with the plan. Samiti founder Shyam Manav had also claimed that “Shukdas Maharaj had sexual relations with women who used to visit the ashram”.
 
 Fed up with the politics over the venue,   decided on September 14 to withdraw its plans to host the literary meet, citing ‘unavoidable circumstances’ as the reason. Earlier, the mahamandal had shortlisted Delhi, Hiwri and Baroda for holding the meet. After Delhi unit expressed its inability to hold it, Hiwri was selected, but the decision faced flak from various quarters. Baroda was the only option left with the mahamandal which agreed to hold the meet. Marathi Vangmay Parishad, which will be hosting the meet, has sent its letter of consent, said mahamandal president Shripad Joshi. The facilities at the venue have also been reviewed by the members.
 
 After Hiwra Ashram backed out, members of Akhil Bharatiya Marathi Sahitya Mahamandal had authorized its president Shripad Bhalchandra Joshi to take a decision. He later chose Baroda as the venue. 
 
 Joshi said that a special committee will be formed for successful conduct of the literary meet. This committee will take all the decisions pertaining to the meet, Joshi said. He also assured that the mahamandal will have a transparent approach. In the committee, four office-bearers of the mahamandal, three representatives of Maharashtra, from Mumbai, Pune and  , and three from Marathi Vangmay Parishad, will be present. 
 
 
