LUCKNOW: District police on Wednesday found lapses in its own investigations which led to arrest of a doctor from Tamil Nadu, at present lodged in  . It also said that senior officials were not informed about the arrest and the case.

 Dr Sudheer (57), a resident of TTK Salai, Alwarpet Chennai, who is a professor of Orthopaedics at the   , was arrested on February 24 on the basis of an FIR lodged against him at Aliganj police station by one Sarfaraz, a real-estate agent in Aliganj.
 
 He accused Dr Sudheer of not paying back Rs 1 crore taken for opening a medical college in UP .
 
 The lapses in investigation came to the fore after a delegation of Tamil Nadu doctors met deputy inspector general of Lucknow range, Praveen Kumar Tripathi, on Wednesday morning. On Tripathi's dirction, Se nior Superintendent of Police, Lucknow, Manzil Saini, started a probe, initial findings of which revealed that Aliganj police bypassed several investigating procedures like checking call details and verifying authenticity of evidence produced by the complainant before arresting the doctor.
 
 Government doctors in Tamil Nadu are on strike after Dr Sudheer's arrest. Gayatri, wife of Dr Sudheer, met DGP of Tamil Nadu earlier this month following which on March 7, Chennai police arrested a money-lender M Kamraj who during police interrogation reportedly confessed of having falsely implicated Dr Sudheer.
 
 Kamraj told Chennai police that he gave blank cheques to his aides in UP -Sarfaraz and Piyush Mishra -for extorting money . Aliganj police arrested Sudheer on Sarfaraz's complaint without verifying facts.
 
 Additional deputy commis sioner (crime branch) Chennai, Ashok Kumar, when contacted on phone, told TOI “After the arrest of Kamraj, many cases of extortion have come to light. We have also got a confession of Kamraj in which he had stated of using his accomplices against Dr Sudheer.“
 
 On March 8, a cross-FIR was lodged by Dr Sudheer's wife Gayatri at Teynapmet police station in Chennai against Kamraj. As per the FIR, in 2011 Dr Sudheer had borrowed Rs 20 lakh from a Kamraj for building a house. The money was borrowed at 5 % interest. At the time of the deal, as a measure of security , Kamraj got some blank cheques signed by the doctor and kept it with him even after successful payment of loan in 2016.
 
 Gayatri stated in her FIR that after full payment of Rs 20 lakh loan, Kamraj started claiming that Dr Sudheer had borrowed Rs 40 Lakh. At this, Dr Sudheer lodged an FIR against Kamraj at Tenyamet police station on May 12, 2016.However, Kamraj remained unfazed and continued to demand more cash. He then transferred the blank cheques to Sarfaraz, Piyush Mishra and Sachin Tandon in UP .
 
 Gayatri while talking to TOI on phone also claimed that the three aides of Kamraj lodged an FIR against Dr Sudheer at Aliganj police station in Lucknow falsely accusing him of taking Rs1crore for building a medical college. They produced the blank cheques before police, claiming that they had taken them as a security .
 
 Elaborating on lapses, police chief Saini said call detail records of Sarfaraz, Kamraj and Dr Sudheer were not examined to establish their contact.The blank cheques were not given to forensic lab for authentication of signatures and their veracity . The two investigating offices sub-inspectors Rajdev Mishra and Haridas Chaurasia committed grave lapses while investigating the case which needs a proper re-investigation. Saini said probe would be completed in three day's time.
 
