VADODARA: Some of the most senior and known faces in   (BCA) will have to forego their posts in the coming days.

 The Supreme Court on Monday issued an order stating that all office-bearers of BCCI and its affiliated state units who are in conflict with recommendations of the   should demit office. The committee has also recommended that no office-bearer can hold on to any seat for more than nine years in all. “SC has made it clear that all recommendations of the Lodha committee have to be accepted. So senior BCA office-bearers like Samarjitsinh Gaekwad, Chirayu Amin, Rakesh Parikh and Dr   won’t be able to contest BCA polls ever again as they have been office-bearers for more than nine years,” said  , BCA secretary (in-charge). 
 
 When contacted, Gaekwad said he will accept the SC verdict. “Like any law-abiding citizen, I will accept the verdict and not contest in BCA polls. Once SC accepted Lodha Committee’s suggestions in July last year, it was imminent that they will be implemented,” Gaekwad told TOI. “In fact, I feel it was silly on the part of the BCA to support the BCCI motion and approach the SC,” he added. 
 
 Anshuman Gaekwad, former India cricketer, said, “As an affiliated body, the BCA will have to fall in line with the SC verdict. It cannot be challenged. The transition of administration in BCA may take some time as the new faces will have to learn about association management.”
 
 “The verdict is fine and I accept it. We have been in the administration for many years. Also administrative posts in BCCI are open for us,” said former BCA vice-president Rakesh Parikh.
 
 Meanwhile, on Tuesday, the BCA is likely to seek a 15-day stay from Gujarat high ourt on charity commissioner’s order that recently reinstated Samarjitsinh as president. Gaekwad was removed as BCA president during a BCA AGM last year and he had challenged it in charity commissioner’s office. The commissioner allowed Gaekwad to continue as BCA president on December 21 following which BCA managing committee approached the HC.
 
