PUNE: A young educated voter,   is dismayed with politics and political parties. But she is aware that her disenchantment will not help her and the city in any way.

 Aditi had initially thought of going for the None Of The Above (NOTA) option during the Assembly polls. But finally she made up her mind to vote for the candidate she felt was better compared to others.
 
 “My parents have been voting for an honest Independent candidate in last few   elections, but the contender was defeated every time. Good and honest people find it hard to survive in electoral politics. I am not interested in politics and I don’t want to be active in politics. But speaking out, making our views heard if we don’t find the right candidate and becoming vocal can make parties to take note of people’s voice. We can at least do this for the city,” said Aditi, who would have preferred to vote for a people’s forum nominee or an apolitical candidate.
 
 Vivek Velankar, a part of the Pune Nagrik Sanghatana (PNS) — the umbrella of 13 civic organizations that contested the 2012   in Pune, said no civic organization had plans to contest the polls this time.
 
 “That was an experiment to give voters a good option. But we failed in our effort. We realized that people vote for parties. Also, we had no money and other resources to reach voters,” said Velankar, adding that though civic organizations would not contest this time, they would be active in convincing people to elect good candidates across party lines.
 
 “Considering the way the parties are contesting, we have very little options. But this does not mean that we must not be a part of the election process. This election is directly concerned with our lives and we have to choose better candidates to represent us,” said Velankar.
 
 Pune has a history of citizens actively participating in electoral politics. In 1960s, city activists and leaders joined hands to form Nagari Sanghatana. It was very much active till 1983, when a major chunk of elected members joined the Congress deserting the party. Since then, civic organizations trying hands in politics have not gained much success.
 
 Col Jayantrao Chitale (Retd), who has galvanized the support of retired servicemen under the banner of   to contest elections, is still hopeful. “We are facing elections under the tag of Mission Pune. We will nominate ex-servicemen and honest citizens as candidates and appeal to people to vote for them,” he said.
 
 Maj Gen (Retd.) S C N Jatar of Nagrik Chetana Manch said political parties had money advantage over other non-political options and civic organizations sprung political forums only during the election time. “I don’t think any organization will be able to make a dent in mainstream political parties and they will rule the roost,” he said adding that people vote according the wave.
 
 Both formal and informal engagement can be understood as political participation, and both are beneficial for a vivid and resilient democracy and should be supported, states the   document of participatory democracies and citizens participating in civic elections is vital because the civic body’s functioning directly affects lives of every individual.
 
