Mumbai:   proxy firms do not feel there are any serious governance issues at  , but a “clash of culture”, which could have been handled in a mature, balanced way. The onus is on Infosys’ founders to “let go and move on”, while the company’s board needs to “improve its disclosure norms’’, they said, going forward. 

 The promoters should have been upfront and sought clarity from the board, which they raised through the media, while the board should have clarified the concerns, and not let them fester, advisory firms feel. 
 
 Advisory firm   feels the issue boils down to deployment of cash available with Infosys, around $5.25 billion. “The more substantial issue is what Infosys proposes to do with the cash on its balance sheet. It is dampening returns and investors are restless that the board has not articulated what it proposes to do with this cash,” Amit Tandon, founder and MD, IiAS told TOI.
 
 Globally, investors and shareholders increasingly want to have a say on where the company’s surplus cash is being deployed. Recently, IT services provider   Technology agreed to return $3.4 billion to shareholders, reportedly bowing to demands from activist investor Elliott Management. 
 
 Former Infosys’ board member TV   raised the issue in a TV interview saying Infosys is giving a return as low as 5-6% even after sitting on surplus cash, and “corroding shareholder value”, suggesting the time is right for a buyback. 
 
 The promoters together, own 12.75% in Infosys, with   and his family owning the largest block. 
 
 “The founders need to decide how they are going to view their relationship with the board, company and the shareholders in the company. The minor transgressions (severance package paid to former employees Rajiv Bansal and David Kennedy) are immaterial and non-issues for large shareholders,” said Shriram Subramanian — founder and MD of shareholder proxy firm InGovern Research. 
 
 The founders need to be transparent and write an open letter to the board of their concerns, suggesting remedial action, rather than giving scope to rumours, he added. Though differences between the promoters and professionally-run board have been simmering for a while, they came into public domain when Infosys’ founder N R Narayana Murthy told the media recently that there were governance concerns. 
 
  (SES) co-founder and MD JN Gupta said there are no serious issues in governance, which should attract attention and cause unnecessary damage to reputation, adding, it appears to be “a case of smoke without fire”. Majority of shareholders are aware of these issues and have not raised any concern, so the voice of founders at best is a minority voice, and must be given same treatment as any other shareholder would deserve. Regarding speculation about “wresting control” by promoters, he said it is an unconfirmed view, however SES is not in favour of any back seat driving. “If the founders do have any intent to come back in the saddle, ... they must approach shareholders for re-electing them in a transparent manner”.
 
 
