Hollywood actress   was in Delhi to speak at a pre-session of the   and   on Sunday. She recounted instances of having been sexually abused as a teenager, and gender violence on social media. But the event wasn’t all about serious discussions – Ashley showed that she is a good bhangra dancer too, as she broke into a jig to the dhol that was played at the venue. She quite nailed the Indian look as well, wearing a pink sari and henna on her hands.

 After spending a couple of days in Kolkata, attending discussions and visiting NGOs, the actress arrived in Delhi Saturday night and spoke at a pre-session of the World Congress Against Exploitation of Girls and Women on Sunday. The event was organised by Apne Aap and CAP international (Coalition for Abolition of Prostitution). Ashley, the goodwill ambassador of the   Population Fund, invited people to sign a global pledge to end sex trafficking of the ‘last girl’, referring to underprivileged teenager girls who can belong to any marginalized group. The event was titled The Last Girl First Congress.
 
  
  Some of the attendees joined Ashley as she danced to the dhol (BCCL)
 
 
 Before she started to talk about issues, her childhood and how she was raped as a 14-year-old, Ashley began her speech on a lighter note by greeting the gathering in Hindi. "Namaste", she said, and as everyone replied to her Namaste, she commented, "Oh good, you all sound like you are from the south of the  , when we say good afternoon or good evening, everyone says it in return."
 
 She continued, "I am as delighted as I could possibly be to be present in the most powerful rooms. I have spoken at the general assembly of the United Nations, I think this is indeed the most powerful room in which I ever stood because folks in here know that we should put the last girl first. In my family I was the last girl, but I was the very loved girl. My parents loved me, adored me then and they are so proud of me now, but I also remember being vulnerable. Just because I was abused and neglected, abandoned and lived in different states without a grown-up at least three different times, that doesn’t mean that I wasn’t loved."
 
 She further added, "There were doped men who took sexual advantage of me and that vulnerability and exploited it. I was molested the first time I can remember (I probably have traumatic amnesia and therefore don’t remember other instances) when I was seven, I was also incested by a relative’s long-time husband and I was also raped twice as a 14-year-old. I am going to give you an example of traumatic amnesia because one of the most important things that I had to do was to learn to believe in myself, even for something that I couldn’t remember. I had to learn to trust my body and to trust the power or my emotional responsiveness to situations and to people. Once I began to trust myself I could then with more confidence say to another girl or woman ‘I believe you.’ My mother recently mentioned to me how I was sexually assaulted at a store which we used to visit when I was between 11 and 14 and I froze with the mention. A man tried to grab me and kidnap me, I was skinny but I fought and slipped under his arms. My mother pressed charges and that man is a registered sex offender, but I have no conscious memory of that event."
 
 
 She also spoke about how life in a patriarchy with poor laws is. "Things that are said to me on social media are very much gender based and they are distinctly misogynistic. I did a talk on this subject and on the issue of online gender violence. The moment that was a turning point for me was when someone sent me my image on social media, said something sexually abusive and explicit and dominating that they wanted to do to... that has happened to me when I was 14. So what’s happening in real time on my Twitter page brought to me the memory of what happened to me when I was 14. The difference is that now I am an empowered adult," she said.
 
  
  The serious discussions at the event got a desi musical break (BCCL)
 
 
 Ashley’s anti-Trump speech at the Women’s March in   made headlines worldwide. The actress had recited a poem written by Nina Donovan, Nasty Woman, at the Women’s March. The actress also voiced her opinion on Trump at the literature festival in Kolkata, saying, "It seems that we are confused. It is confusing how a misogynist like Trump can be president." While talking about Trump here, she clarified, "I want to emphasise that if I have to answer questions on American politics I do so as an American citizen and represent my opinion, I don’t speak on behalf of any organization or entity I work with. I think what I will be seeing is reintegration of resistance. In my area there are lot of folks who voted for Mr Trump, including some of my own family members. I have had a painful yet important opportunity of listening with a lot of empathy towards the folks who voted for him, what they had on their minds. I may not like it, it may be outright racist or misogynistic, it may just be sheer capitalistic, imperialistic, it may be confusing."
 
 
