PUNE: A   here has convicted and sentenced a truck driver from   to eight years’ rigorous imprisonment for an accident that killed four persons, injured four others and damaging seven vehicles in Lonikand on the Pune-Ahmednagar highway on March 25, 2012.

 The driver was found guilty of culpable homicide not amounting to murder. In a judgment on Monday, additional sessions judge S M Menjoge also held the accused   (47) guilty of an offence under Section 308 (attempt for culpable homicide) in relation to the injured victims. “The   ruled that these sentences are to run concurrently,” additional public prosecutor Rajesh Kavediya told TOI. 
 
 Kavediya said, “Muluk has been in jail ever since the day of the accident when he was apprehended by people and handed over to the police. The court had earlier rejected Muluk’s bail plea. Truck owner Balasaheb Vitthal Pokharkar too was arrested in the case. The court has directed the prosecution to file a separate charge sheet against Pokharkar considering that he has been absconding ever since he secured a bail after the police filed a charge sheet.”
 
 Judge Menjoge referred to “consistent and corroborative evidence by the prosecution witnesses” while ruling that the prosecution had proved beyond reasonable doubt that Muluk was driving the truck at a very high speed and caused death and injury besides damage to vehicles and property. “The accused was not holding a valid driving license to drive a 10-wheeler heavy goods vehicle. He was driving the truck in the speed of 70kmph to 80kmph even on the speed breaker. It is not just a case of rash and negligent driving but, the act of accused is squarely covered under Section 304-II (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) of the Indian Penal Code,” the judge ruled. 
 
 The judge further observed, “He (the accused) was having knowledge of his act that by such driving of heavy truck without license and in high speed could be harmful to other persons and property. Four persons died. It amounts to culpable homicide not amounting to murder.” 
 
 In fact, one of the injured victims lost his wife and one-year-old daughter, the court pointed out. The girl, Priya Chavan, was killed on the spot while her mother, Pratibha, died at a hospital in Pune. Her husband Sundar, a carpenter by profession, was badly injured. Sundar had shifted to Lonikand from his native place in Uttar Pradesh in search of employment.
 
 Muluk’s lawyer S Kolhatkar had prayed for a lenient view as against Kavediya’s plea for maximum punishment as per the law. 
 
 However, judge Menjoge held, “Considering the death of four persons and injuries to four person and damage to seven vehicles because of the accused, he is not entitled for lenient view.”
 
