Like any doting father, it was 55-year-old Raju O’s dream to see his daughter Rasila reaching the acme in her career, and indeed his joy knew no bounds when she made it to a prestigious company like Infosys. But an ordinary wish was to come to a premature end, when his 24-year-old daughter was murdered in cold blood in the   office on Sunday evening.

 The ex-serviceman, who is now a part of Kerala home guard, came to Pune to collect his daughter’s body, laying the blame squarely on the Infosys management, emphasising that a legal battle with the company was awaited.
 
 “The police are saying that the security guard was harassing her. But she had complained to me earlier that her superior was harassing her and that the company was not allowing her a transfer to her desired place, Bangalore. Overall, after her death I feel that there is a problem with the management of the company. I hold the company responsible for the death of my daughter,” Raju told Pune Mirror.
 
 The emotional father recalled how three days ago his daughter complained of harassment at the hands of her senior, who allegedly was instrumental in stalling transfer to Bengaluru from Pune. “If she would have moved to Bengaluru my daughter would have been alive today,” said Raju.
 
 Rasila lost her mother when she was still an engineering student. Raju brought her up single-handedly along with his older son. “After my son shifted to Abu Dhabi, my entire focus was on Rasila. I was happy when she was selected by Infosys. I thought her career would now shape up. But she was not very comfortable in Pune,” he said.
 
 He stressed that it is the responsibility of the company to ensure that a new employee of the company is made comfortable at the workplace, which was not the case with Rasila. “When she asked for the transfer, she was told that she would get it only on medical grounds. However, since she did not have any medical issues, she did not want to give a fake certificate for the transfer,” Raju said.
 
 He recalled her last visit to her hometown when she was happy to spend time with the family, inviting her father to visit her in Pune. “Now I cannot come to terms with the fact that the last conversation with my daughter was about how unhappy she was here. At the time, I reassured her that everything would be alright eventually,” said he.
 
 Raju also questioned how a security guard could have access to the section where IT professionals work. “Were other people involved? I cannot help thinking that way. But I am going to fight a legal battle against the company to bring justice to my daughter.”
 
 The post-mortem on Rasila was carried out only after her father reached Pune on Monday afternoon. The father now wishes to visit her house where she lived and the spot inside the Infosys campus where she was brutally killed.
 
