Pune: Resham Randive would often find it difficult to teach her daughter English and Hindi. She did everything, from reading out stories to her daughter to making worksheets, but they bore little fruit. 

 After reading an advertisement, Randive ordered a pre-loaded educational tablet. When they began using it, her daughter’s interest grew and she could relate to the characters in the tablet.
 
 The story is no different in schools. Almost every school, private and government, has set up multimedia classrooms with touch screens. Startups have also come to the aid with mapping of lessons from textbooks into graphics and animated games.
 
 A   format brings alive concepts. For instance, a chapter on sedimentary rocks, becomes dull and boring due to the absence of coloured pictures in the black-and-white textbook. In the gaming format, the learner clicks to understand a sedimentary rock and the changes in the rock formation by applying various principles. 
 
 The gamification of educational tasks and homework encourages students to learn through the structure of games which helps build their learning abilities. Growth in the number of smartphone and tablet-users will boost the gamified segment, experts in the field said.
 
 Educationist and co-founder of KA EduAssociates Fatima Agarkar said, “All schools have to embrace technology for the 21st century learner. 
 
 The reduced rate of the conventions and technologies has gained massive popularity among schools and parents. It is believed that around 60% to 70% of our current systems will adapt to this positive change in the next five or six years.”
 
 Maths and science can be stimulating by adding a gaming touch to them. Board games have been converted into online format, the atlas is a great way of picking up subjects like geography and companies and startups are also exploring English and social studies for the gaming lesson. 
 
 Over 300 schools in Pune are using ConveGenius tablet for children between three and 12 years of age. It is a house to over 500 illustrated children books.
 
 Jairaj Bhattacharya, founder and managing director, ConveGenius, said they worked towards making learning fun and engaging by mapping videos, games, and exercises to the competencies covered in NCERT books. 
 
 Each book is accompanied by interactive games like a word-search/jigsaw/etc to help children engage with the stories in a more meaningful manner.
 
 NextEducation, another education solutions provider, annually sets up 12,000-14,000 digital classrooms across the country with multi-touch screens.
 
 "Earlier, the screens were single touch so only the teacher could use them, but now we are providing multi-touch to the extent of four and eight users. This makes chapters and lessons interactive. Teachers can form groups and make use of the digital platform," Beas Dev Ralhan, chief executive officer and co-founder, NextEducation India, said.
 
 
