Pune: Five cops, including a sub-inspector, of the Kothrud police station were dismissed late on Friday for   the value of demonetised currency notes seized from a businessman on February 2 afternoon.

 The policemen of the detection branch of the police station had seized demonetised currency of Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 denomination, valued at Rs 66 lakh, in Kothrud. But they showed only Rs 20 lakh on the record.
 
 The deceit came to light after a local newspaper published a report on the suspicious seizure by the police team. Subsequently, senior police officers ordered an inquiry. Deputy commissioner of police (Zone I) Sudhir Hiremath probed into in the matter.
 
 After investigations, two separate orders were issued on Friday to dismiss the cops. City police commissioner Rashmi Shukla issued the dismissal order of sub-inspector Vikram Pratapsingh Rajput of the Kothrud police station.
 
 Additional commissioner of police (south region) Pradeep Deshpande issued another order dismissing police naik Ajinath Sahebrao Kshirsat, constables Ashwajit Balasaheb Sonawane and Sandeep Jhumbar Rithe, and havaldar Hemanth Madhukar Hendre.
 
 On February 2, the dismissed policemen had claimed that they had intercepted a car near Shivaji statue in Kothrud in the afternoon in which demonetised notes were being transported. They took the seized cash to the police chowkey on the premises of the Kothrud police station.
 
 The total value of the seized currency notes was Rs 66 lakh, but they did not apprise any senior police officers about it initially. They informed their higher-ups about the action late in the night and made an entry in the police station dairy, showing only Rs 20 lakh was seized.
 
 Shukla relied on the provisions of Article 311 (dismissal, removal or reduction in rank of persons employed in civil capacities under the Union or a state) of Indian Constitution to dismiss sub-inspector Rajput. The same provisions were invoked against the other cops by Deshpande.
 
 The orders stated that several requests were made to the “witnesses” in the case to submit their statements but they did not turn up. Also, the conduct of the policemen was against the laid down principles.
 
 Rajput was not available at the police station. Repeated attempts were made to reach him on his cellphone, but he did not answer the calls.
 
 
