HYDERABAD: Under immense pressure from various authorities to reduce its carbon footprint, the   (TSRTC) has now decided to retrofit 30 buses from its existing fleet with   kits.

 These buses are part of the 300 CNG vehicles that were bought by the corporation in 2010 when it drew up massive plans to `go green'.
 
 Later, many of them were converted into diesel buses after the plan failed to take off. Primary reason for the failure: Acute shortage of compressed natural gas (CNG) in the handful of outlets around the city .
 
 “About 250 were kept unused for a year and then many were rounded off to   where the supply was better. Among them, 30 buses were converted into diesel vehicles at a huge cost. These buses will now be retrofitted back with CNG kits,“ said Jeevan Prasad, chief traffic manager (Greater Hyderabad zone), TSRTC.
 
 The cost this time, for retrofitting these buses, will be about Rs 5-6 lakh per bus. According to sources, the move follows repeated instructions to TSRTC by the   ( ) and traffic police to check pollution.
 
 Incidentally, stuck with an ageing fleet of 3,819 buses, the corporation has suffered cumulative losses of Rs 3,000 crore over the years.
 
 But while some hail the move, some other department insiders allege that the idea to shift back to CNG has been thrust upon the corporation by the  , which had made this suggestion to the PCB, to arrest vehicular pollution. They point out, how the move is both highly expensive and of no significance to the end user.
 
 “The engines of these bu ses are different and can be modified to perform at par with diesel vehicles but not only are the buses costlier, CNG is costlier than diesel.While diesel-run buses cost between Rs 22 and Rs 27 lakh each, CNG buses range between Rs 31 and Rs 32 lakh. We cannot have CNG buses just because someone is thrusting the idea on the corporation. It has to have some benefits for users and some incentives for the corporation too.We will retrofit or buy new CNG buses if PCB extends some grant,“ explained a senior official.
 
 Experts also add how a small-scale change is unlikely to help improve the ambient air quality of the city.
 
 At present, there are only 120 CNG buses operating in depots such as Shamirpet, Dundigal and Medak.
 
 Adding 30 more will have no impact, unless the plan is executed at a larger scale, experts add.
 
 “The larger question is about who is committed to reducing pollution and what they are going to do about it.We cannot expect RTC, which is already suffering huge losses, to bring about a reduction in pollution. It's public commitment. While RTC is thinking about spending money and the cost effectiveness of the move, what they are not thinking about is pollution ­ which is the primary subject.If pressurised, they will at best make it its least priority,“ said Anant Maringanti, executive director, Hyderabad Urban Lab.
 
