NEW DELHI: The government found itself isolated in the   on Monday when the opposition, led by Congress, accused it of trying to turn “Hindustan” into “Lynchistan”.

 Congress neta   said atrocities against Muslims and Dalits had increased in the name of cow protection, and the aggressors were backed by  , VHP and BJP legislators. 
 
 He said there was an atmosphere of fear in the country, and questioned the sincerity of the PM’s comments against mob violence. “It is being done so that your ideology and philosophy can be established in the country,” Kharge said.
 
 In response, BJP, through MP Hukumdeo Narayan Yadav, questioned the claims about lynchings, stating they had been happening for many years and pointed fingers at Congress. 
 
 The party said the “terrorist acts” were being perpetrated to defame the Modi government. Yadav quoted socialist mascot   to say “Muslims are former Hindus”.
 
 He said Muslims should respect Hindus’ sentiments and since their ancestors were Hindu, they should own the Hindu gods and the Indian civilisation. “If they turned Muslims for some reasons, they should have respect for them,” he said, adding that Hindus too should respect the sentiments of Muslims.
 
 Yadav said that under the earlier RJD government in Bihar, separate roads had to be constructed for Hindu processions because of a community’s objections. “To stop someone’s cultural procession, is it less than mob lynching?” The MP spoke about objections among minorities to singing of Vande Mataram, calling it a bigger crime than mob lynching. He also referred to the apology forced from a JD(U) Muslim minister in Bihar for saying “Jai ShriRam”.
 
 Interestingly, the senior BJP neta, who said he was an RSS worker since 1950, questioned the dubbing of Junaid’s killing in Haryana as a communal incident, saying it was a result of a petty dispute over a train berth.
 
 Kharge said BJP-ruled Jharkhand and   had become “centres of mob lynching”. 
 
 Referring to the murder of a BJP worker in Kerala, Kharge said the state’s governor had summoned the DGP on the issue but no such action had taken place in other states where lynching incidents took place.
 
  MP Saugata Roy sought a separate “human protection law” to deal with incidents of lynching. “The government keeps saying it wants Congress-free India, I want to ask, do you want to make a Muslim-free India as well,” Roy said, provoking protests from BJP members.
 
 LJP neta and food minister   said while the PM had condemned the lynching incidents, the then PM (Rajiv Gandhi) had during the 1984 anti-Sikh riots, remarked “when a big tree falls, the earth does shake”.
 
 BJD’s   said lynching incidents affected the rural economy. “By lynching movement... you will eventually kill Hindu farmers,” Satpathy said.
 
 MIM’s   asked if the PM could go to Israel to meet Moshe Holtzberg, who was orphaned in Mumbai attacks, why could he not embrace victims of lynchings.
 
