CUTTACK: Police have started probe into the alleged harassment and ragging case at   and Hospital, even though the college authorities have claimed that the matter has been amicably resolved. 

 Police have recorded the statement of the girl, a fourth year MBBS student, while they have issued notices to eye-witnesses to appear before them and get their statements recorded. "The four accused named in the FIR will also be served notices and questioned," said IIC of   police station, Arun Swain. Police have also asked college authorities to submit a report on the incident.
 
 On January 26, the girl had lodged a complaint with police alleging that four fifth year students had abused and harassed her. She had also brought ragging allegations against her seniors. The case was lodged under section 341(wrongful restraint), 294(obscene acts), 354(outrage modesty), 509(gesture to insult the modesty of a woman) and 34 of the IPC. 
 
 But surprisingly when the colleges internal disciplinary committee conducted probe into the matter on Friday the girl agreed to settle the issue amicably and withdraw her complaint. The girl had claimed that she decided to resolve the matter mutually after her seniors apologized to her.
 
 However, police have made it clear that despite the mutual settlement they will move ahead with the probe. "We will act as per the law. Once lodged, a FIR cannot be withdrawn. So we will investigate the case thoroughly," said DCP(Cuttack) Sanjeev Arora. 
 
 SCB college authorities on Saturday convened a general body meeting to discuss the issue. Faculty members of the college, administrative officials, students and the girl attended the meeting. Sources said discussions were held to avoid such untoward incidents in the future. The students were directed to refrain from harassing their juniors, said a staff of SCB. "I am satisfied with the steps taken by college authorities to avoid reoccurrence of such incidents. I will not take the matter further," said the victim girl. 
 
 However, at a time when the students have settled the matter amicably will they cooperate with police investigation? "We will summon the four students named in FIR and if they did not turn up, legal action will be initiated against them," said Swain. 
 
 
