BENGALURU: From small beginnings, Bengaluru is finally segregating much more waste at source. Over 50% of waste generated in the city is being segregated, says the latest daily report of the BBMP's  .

 Of the total waste of 4039.76 tonnes generated on April 4, 2057.03 tonnes were segregated at source. In all, 1677.65 tonnes of wet waste and 362.65 tonnes of dry waste were segregated at source.
 
 “We have come a long way. Bengaluru is the first city in India to segregate as much as 50% of its waste. Bengaluru is also the first city in India where sanitary waste is collected separately from households,“ said  , BBMP joint commissioner for health and solid waste management. The city has collected over 20 tonnes of sanitary waste separately in the first week of April.
 
 The Startup City's lack of waste management facilities had even got international media attention. While   the list with 63.1 % of segregation, 1 west zone is at the bottom of the list with 46.8%, as per the data on April 4.
 
 However, the rest of the mixed waste is going to quarries and landfills. “In some places, there are complaints that pourakarmikas mix up waste even though it had been segregated by households. We're looking into these problems.   and mixed waste are still going to quarries. Collection and disposal have been big challenges,“ said Sarfaraz Khan.
 
 Reaching this milestone has not been easy. BBMP made a microplan for each ward and through them, the city has been able to lessen the burden on landfills every day by 1,600-1,800 tonnes. It has been possible thanks to resident welfare associations and BBMP's awareness programmes, say officials.
 
 
 
 
 “However, a lot remains to be done. Some educated people still throw garbage on the road. Recently, I stopped a gentleman and his son in a car from throwing waste on the road. I spoke to them and made sure they took back the waste they had already flung on the road. In public places, we will install public bins.You can't expect someone on Commercial Street to buy an ice-cream and walk back to the shop to throw the wrapper. The concept of a binless city does not serve any purpose,“ Khan told STOI.
 
