PUNE: The daylong   (road blockade) agitation called by the transporters on Tuesday left   high and dry.

 Autorickshaw commuters were the worst-hit because hardly any three-wheelers hit the streets. Outstation commuters at the railway station and bus stands had a tough time as autorickshaw stands were empty. The few drivers at the stands refused to ply.
 
 Most school transport vehicles also remained off the road, compelling parents to make alternative arrangements to drop and pick up children. Bharati Rahirikar, a resident of Khadki, said she had to drop her grandson to school and bring back home because of the school transporters’ strike.
 
 Raju Pawar, who had planned a trip to Kothrud from Shivajinagar with his family to attend a function, said he had no choice but to cancel the visit after he failed to get an autorickshaw. He said the drivers refused to ply their vehicles, claiming it was a daylong strike.
 
 Commuters claimed that the strike by autorickshaw drivers prompted a significant surge in fares of cab services and non-availability of cars.
 
 The tempo and goods transporters also joined the protest against a recent revision introduced by the Union government in transport-related fees. Transporters staged a demonstration at the district collector’s office demanding an urgent rollback. They threatened to intensify agitation if demands were not met with.
 
 The demonstration headed by Baba Adhav witnessed a huge participation of transporters. Addressing the gathering, Adhav said the hike in fees was unjustifiable and should be rolled back immediately. He also threatened to stop Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari’s vehicle during his next visit to the city.
 
 Shailendra Kumar, a resident of Kondhwa, was among many stranded on road with anger and frustration. He had to go to his workplace along the Airport Road, but could not find an autorickshaw. “I am already late for work and have informed by senior about it. This is utterly frustrating.”
 
 Adarsh Ghole, a resident of Koregaon Park, had a similar story to narrate. “My office is at the Vimannagar area and I was forced to book an Ola cab, but its driver told me that he would be charging Rs80 extra for the trip. I am sure ‘charging extra’ was the cabbie’s idea and I shall complain against him.,” Adarsh said.
 
 PMPML plies more buses
 
 The Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited officials claimed that they plied a total of 1,507 buses in the morning hours. “We ran more buses in the morning and the number was even higher in the afternoon. During the morning time, we usually run around 1,450 buses on an average,” an official said.
 
 
