GURUGRAM:   are in a fix over the lack of clarity on admissions to nursery classes, with the new academic session about to start. Parents have claimed that like every year, this year too, schools have decided to start the nursery admission procedure on different dates. According to parents, unlike Delhi, the absence of a regulatory body for Gurgaon schools has allowed them to continue with this practice. 

 “This is a big issue for parents,” said Sector 5 resident  . “I’m a working woman. It’s quite difficult for me to keep track of admission-related information, since schools don’t announce admission at any fixed time. We request our friends, relatives and acquaintances to keep track and get back to us when they have any information.”
 
 Timing is not the parents’ only peeve. Nursery admission criteria are also different for different schools. “Schools have different admission criteria. Also, cost of their admission forms vary. There should be an agency that regulates these things, to end the miseries of parents.” 
 
 According to sources,   in Sector 28 will start admission procedure for nursery students on July 23, whereas   is expected to do the same in September. DPS Sector 45 is also likely to announce admissions by the end of this month.
 
 Supriya Pathak, another parent, said she couldn’t get her child enrolled in a school last year because of this confusion. “I had no idea which school would start admission at what time,” she said. “The time gap of admission between schools in Gurgaon can be as long as four months in some cases.” Pathak said even information posted on websites of schools is not helpful.
 
   , principal, Ryan International School, Gurgaon, defended the way schools carry out the nursery admission process. “Some schools in Gurgaon have branches in other regions as well. So they have to ensure that admissions in all schools correspond with each other,” said Singh. She also said if a common regulatory body for the private schools benefit students and their parents, the schools won’t have a problem with it.
 
 
