KOLKATA: By all accounts 2016 was the hottest ever with temperatures rising worldwide because of global warming. It was no different in India, which is also experiencing a mild winter. True, certain places in the upper Himalayas have experienced occasional snowfall, but given the fact that most part of north India continues to be pleasantly cool, the snowy spells can be dismissed as minor aberrations much like Team India's five-run loss in the third and final ODI against England at the Eden Gardens on Sunday .

 India's performance on the cricket field under the dynamic   has been so hot that drawing rooms across the country have hardly had to use room heaters. Seven wins and a draw in eight in Test matches and five wins out of eight in ODIs reflects the Indian team's steely mental resolve that has had a direct bearing on the rate of success on the field. It's not for nothing that India are the No 1 team in Test matches, No 2 in T20 and No 3 in ODIs.
 
 Ironically, Indian cricket appears to have hit a crest at a time when its administration is in a shambles. It just goes to show that the abundance of talent in the country just needs the opportunity to express itself. The manner in which Kedar Jadhav, Hardik Pandya, Jasprit Bumrah, Jayant Yadav and Axar Patel have made most of the limited chances that have come their way speaks volumes about their focus and temperament that enables them to deliver under pressure.
 
 As the leader of the pack, Kohli continues to lead by example. Unlike many of his predecessors, who were too scared to lose, Kohli is not afraid to win. His confidence is rubbing on to his juniors and Kohli is loving it. No wonder, he was counting the positives after presiding over India's fourth series win (2 each against New Zealand and England) since September last year.
 
 It may be argued that England and New Zealand have never really set the Ganges on fire when they have toured India, but you can hardly take away anything from dominance exerted by India on their opponents. The 4-0 verdict in Tests was ample revenge for India's 1-3 surrender in England in 2014, but it is time now for Kohli's bravehearts to paint the upcoming English summer in Indian colours by successfully defending their Champions Trophy crown.
 
 Looking back on the past five months, one can safely say that Kohli has all the ingredients to whip up a hearty meal. A detailed analysis of the data available over this period suggests that India have most bases covered but a few grey areas remain. The success of Pandya and Jadhav down the order lends the team nice balance and a much-desired depth in batting, but it would be a folly to overlook the fact that their bravado with the bat came on featherbeds which drew the venom from bowlers and rendered them clueless, hapless and useless.
 
 Take the case of Ravichandran Ash win. The world's top-ranked Test bowler, who accounted for 28 English and 20 Kiwi scalps in the five and three-Test series, respectively, had figures of 063 (Pune), 365 (Cuttack) and 060 (Kolkata) in the three ODIs. It hardly does justice to Ashwin's talent, but at the same time the Indian off-spinner is unlikely to find grass-laced English wickets to his liking.
 
 Jadhav and Pandya are self-taught, street-smart cricketers who are exciting to watch, but both are completely untested in overseas conditions, especially in wet English summer. Jadhav, who owed the Man-of-the-Series award to his awesome backfoot-play, has to prove himself in seaming conditions where traditionally front-footed players have made hay . Pandya, the bowler, on the other hand, should be a handful if he pitches it up on English tracks, while Bumrah's pin-point yorkers will come in handy anywhere in the world.
 
 The return of Rohit Sharma from injury should solve India's opening woes in ODIs even though there is a big question mark over Shikhar Dhawan's future in the team. The return of Yuvraj Singh certainly adds glitter to the middle-order.In spite of his match-winning 150 in Cuttack, it remains to be seen whether Yuvi is able lace his flamboyance with consistency in the final stage of his career.
 
 The Champions Trophy will be Kohli's first major test as full-time captain.It will also be a test of Kohli's technique against the moving ball. The last time he was in England, Kohli was like a cat on a hot tin roof against the likes of James Anderson and Stuart Broad, though he has been a transformed player since the disastrous 2014 tour and will no doubt lead India's challenge. The abdication of captaincy by   is perhaps the best thing for Indian cricket because it can squeeze out a couple of years of service from his ageing frame. It is a given that at 35, Dhoni will not be the powerful finisher of yore, but having been granted the freedom to bat higher up the order, he can still be a lethal force.
 
 With the dependable Ashwin and Ravindra Jadeja in the ranks, the spin department is well manned, but there is real concern over the pace options as injuries continue to play havoc with the entire lot. The selectors have played musical chairs with Mohammad Shami, Ishant Sharma, Bhuvneshwar Kumar, Umesh Yadav, Dhawal Kulkarni, Bumrah and Pandya in the last four series, but with another five Test matches (one against Bangladesh and four versus Australia) coming up, followed by two months of gruelling IPL, it could well be a case of fittest feet making the trip.
 
 
