BENGALURU: The first status report filed before the Karnataka High Court on   states the obvious -- that it is highly polluted. The report further lists several short and long-term measures to rejuvenate and restore the waterbody.

 According to the report submitted by Mahendra Jain, additional chief secretary, urban development department and TM Vijaya Bhaskar, additional chief secretary to forest, ecology and environment department, sewage flow into the lake from surrounding areas has left the waterbody highly polluted. Incidentally, the report comes a day after a fire near the same lake gave residents and commuters the jitters. 
 
 “Agricultural activity is still observed on the lake’s eastern downstream. It’s partially covered with weeds due to entry of waste water from all inlets. There is abnormal levels of pollution in terms of septicity, obnoxious odour aerosols with toxic volatile compounds, due to eutrophication condition. Due to disappearance of native fish species, there’s a lot of algal bloom. There is also growth of invasive exotic aquatic macrophytes, endangering local planktons, and leading to loss of aquatic animals. It’s also leading to profuse mosquito breeding,” the report explained.
 
 Water quality monitoring soon
 
 With regard to the remedial measures, the report says the BWSSB has been told to install online water quality monitoring systems to the outlets of STPs leading to the lake and this is expected to be completed in nine months.
 
 The water board has issued notices to apartments that haven’t installed STPs on their premises as per the January 19, 2016 notification issued by the government. The BWSSB expects to commission a 90MLD-capacity STP at Bellandur Amanikere Lake. With regard to construction of 150MLD-capacity STP at K&C valley (which will treat water from Koramnagala valley and Ejipura drain) the BWSSB hopes to commission work in April, with a completion deadline of March 31, 2020. 
 
 It also expects to complete by 2018-19 the construction of four treatment plants at Hulimavu, Chikka Begur, Sarakki and Agara lakes upstream Bellandur Lake, and have sewers in all parts of the catchment area and core area by March 2020.
 
 The board is also considering the proposal to develop Bellandur and Varthur lakes as secondary water supply source for Bengaluru. The report further says the BDA has invited tenders through e-procurement process for de-weeding and installation of aerators at Bellandur Lake; work to harvest macrophytes will commence in three months. It also states that the BBMP has taken action to evict all waste-processing units in the lake’s vicinity and on the lakebed.
 
 The KSPCB on its part will monitor functional ETPs to ensure zero effluent discharge by industries. It will also evolve surprise audit mechanisms to ensure untreated effluent discharges are not let into storm water drains.
 
 Meanwhile, a division bench headed by Chief Justice Subhro Kamal Mukherjee has adjourned by two weeks, the hearing of a PIL filed by Rajya Sabha member D Kupendra Reddy. The petitioner has sought the court’s intervention in restoring Bellandur Lake, claiming the authorities have failed to act on their own reports, including the one submitted by the KSPCB, wherein several remedial measures were suggested.
 
