NEW DELHI: The   has indicted 
  , Bhondsi (Gurgaon), where a Class II student was murdered on September 8, for failing to “observe the basic security measures as stipulated by the board", which could've prevented the tragedy. The board issued a 
  on Saturday asking “why [its] provisional affiliation for secondary and senior secondary level may not be withdrawn".

 The board held the school responsible on seven counts in the notice, including wilful violation of the provisions of the affiliation bylaws. Based on the report of a two member fact-finding committee, which was set up on September 9, a day after the murder of seven-year-old Pradhyumn Thakur inside the school premises, CBSE stated that “the school has failed to discharge its responsibility to file the FIR and inform the district education officer and CBSE..." and that "the FIR was subsequently filed by the parent".
 
 Holding the
  , the board said that from the entire sequence of events, it appeared that the school was guilty of gross negligence and that it failed to ensure the safety and security of students.
 
 Pradhyumn was murdered in the school's washroom on September 8, allegedly by school bus conductor Ashok Kumar who, according to police, tried to sexually assault the boy. The probe has now been transferred to the CBI.
 
 The fact-finding committee comprised Y Arun Kumar, deputy commissioner,  , and Kailash Chand, principal, government co-ed senior secondary school, Preet Vihar, who visited the school campus earlier week.
 
 In its report, the committee said that the “unfortunate incident... could have been averted had (the) school authorities discharged their duty and responsibility with care and sincerity“.
 
 The report said that the windows of the toilet where the boy was killed had no grilles and people could easily access it from outside. It also pointed out that there was no separate provision for toilets washroom for drivers and conductors/cleaners... despite the school engaging around 35 buses for transportation of students and staff.
 
 Elaborating on the gross negligence of security measures, the report said: “No attendant/aaya was present at the toilet of the small children. Had the school management deployed attendant/aaya, this mishap would have been avoided.“
 
 The committee found that the boundary wall wasn't high enough and as there were no barbed wires, anybody could jump and enter the school premises. The required number of CCTV cameras, as per CBSE guidelines, had not been installed and most of them installed in the school building were not functioning.
 
 It also found other lapses, like unused classrooms and the building terraceroof kept unlocked and thus easily accessible to students, apart from the electricity panel room being kept open.
 
 The school management has been asked to reply within 15 days.
 
