NAGPUR: The reaction during the dying minutes were contrasting from both camps. While Ansar Sports Club were excited,   ( ) looked nervous.

 Ansar Sports Club’s  , charging in the injury time, dodged three defenders and then managed to fox the goalkeeper. All he needed was composure. Yaseen, however, couldn’t held his nerves. He not only missed the target but also a golden opportunity to stun NAFC in the season opener - which ended in a goalless draw - of the NDFA Elite Division   League at Police Line Takli ground on Thursday.
 
 It was the only chance that came Ansar Club’s way in the second half. Ansar boys defended exceptionally as they held the favourites. The victory would have given them an ideal start.
 
 NAFC were disciplined and played a like a seasoned team, while their rivals were relatively rash and did everything to stall the attacks. Ansar’s Waseem Akhtar was cautioned for his rash move, which saw NAFC’s Shafique Ahmed going out of the ground with a severe-looking eye injury in 43rd minute.
 
 NAFC, who are coached by former Indian player Abdul Khalique, kept the possession and created more than a dozen chances in the match. Their midfield comprising Rauf Khan, Shafique Ahmed and Sohail Haque controlled the game well and fashioned exciting moves but couldn’t earn desired results.
 
 NAFC’s Rohit Kanojiya came close to scoring on three occassions, while Blesson Saji missed two opportunities. A conversion on any of those chances would have have given NAFC a definite win. However, their efforts were stalled by Ansar’s Mohammad Faiyyaz, skipper Nazim Ahmed, Musaddique Umair and Waseem Akhter, who showed great composure under pressure throughout match.
 
 Every time NAFC’s midfielders made the move for their forwards Rohit and Blesson, the Ansar’s quartet cleared the ball with ease. The Ansar boys could create just four chances in the match including the crucial miss by Yaseen, which brought them close to the win at fag end of the game.
 
 Earlier, the tournament was inaugurated by Shivaji Rao, joint commissioner, Nagpur police and Mukul Verma, Head-Works, JSW. Harish Vora, president, NDFA; Iqbal Kashmiri, Eugne Norbart, Kocher, Kamil Ansari, Atmaram Pandey, Stanley Gregory and Abid Khan were present.
 
 
 
 
 Nagpur District Football Association (NDFA) has high ambitions to promote the game in the district but they failed to provide basic medical facilities, which might have proved costly, on Thursday.
 
 NAFC’s Shafique Ahmed received a severe injury after he collided with Ansar’s Waseem Akhtar in the 43rd minute. He struggled to get up. His left eye was swollen and the eye lid did not open.
 
 The players and referees literally shouted more than five times for ambulance, while Shafique was getting attended. However, there was no response from NDFA due to the unavailability of doctor and ambulance.
 
 “The association should ensure that the medical bench and ambulance is available at the ground. There are many incidents that are reported in newspapers where the players have died on the field,” a cop, who was present at the ground, said while talking to TOI.
 
