PUNE: A 38-year-old professional biker from   to his death from the   in the   of Monday after his new high performance motorcycle crashed into the  

 The impact of the crash was such that the biker, Ashutosh Dattatreya Phadke of Vijayashree Society in Kothrud, was tossed into the air. He fell about 40 feet below onto Karve Road in front of two policemen deployed at Paud Phata. On hearing a loud thud around 12.50am on Monday , the cops rushed to the spot.
 
 Ashutosh's friend Alok Bhagat, riding on another motorcycle, took him to a nearby private hospital. “He succumbed to injuries during treatment around 2am,“ said Kothrud police's senior inspector Raghunath Phuge.
 
 The police suspect Ashutosh was going at a high speed.
 
 Alok told the police that they left Kothrud around 8pm on Sunday to meet one of their friends in Sangvi. “ Alok told Ashutosh they would take a car instead of riding all the way to Sangvi. But Ashutosh insisted on going by motorcycle,“ said a Kothrud police officer. The biker who fell to his death from the Paud Road flyover in the early hours of Monday always used safety gears while venturing out on a two-wheeler.
 
 The victim, Ashutosh Dattatreya Phadke, had all the safety gears on when he fell off the flyover. Alok Bhagat, the friend of the victim trailing him on another bike, told the police that being a professional motorcycle rider, Ashutosh always sported safety gear. “On Sunday night also both of them had worn all the necessary gear while going to Sangvi,“ the officer said.
 
 On their way back home, Ashutosh was riding ahead of Alok. When Alok climbed on the flyover at Paud Phata, he found Ashutosh's motorcycle lying on it. “Alok stopped and saw Ashutosh lying under the bridge. He rushed down and took Ashutosh to hospital,“ the officer said.
 
 The officer said Ashutosh had suffered severe injuries on his ribs and stomach. “His helmet was intact,“ the officer said.
 
 “Ashutosh's motorcycle may have grazed against the railings on the curve of the flyover. It skidded about 200 metres and stopped after dashing against the railing on the other side of the flyover. Ashutosh was flung in the air in its impact and fell about 40 feet below on the Karve Road.“
 
 Alok told the police that Ashutosh hardly took the flyover at Paud Phata for going home. He always travelled by the Karve Road to reach his home near Ashish Garden in Kothrud. But after leaving their friend's home in Sangvi, Ashutosh and Alok decided to have a cup of tea near MIT College off Paud Road. To reach MIT, they took the flyover at Paud Phata, where the accident occurred.
 
 Ashutosh's neighbour Bharat Rathi told TOI that Ashutosh was an avid biker. He had visited Leh La dakh, Khardungla Pass on motorcycle.
 
 Ashutosh recently purchased a high performance motorcycle and was enjoying riding it. “Ashutosh's father Dattatreya Phadke is a re tired police inspector. He is survived by his wife and two daughters,“ Rathi said.
 
 One of his friends, who did not wish to be named, said, “Ashutosh was a very lively person and a man of his own. He was running an automobile repairing garage and was also dealing in high performance motorcycles. Recently, Ashutosh had started his own   .“
 
