HYDERABAD: Coaching institutes without necessary certifications continue to flourish in Hyderabad. Only 39 of the 450 coaching institutions have registered with the government, but they continue to attract students thanks to the success of city candidates in various entrance examinations over the years.

 As per GO Ms No 200 issued in 1997, all tutorial and coaching institutes in the state were asked to register themselves at   centres. In 2015, the school education department once again decided to enforce this rule and issued notices to various institutes for registration. But only a few applications were submitted.
 
 “The government has been issuing public notices every year to all the coaching institutions, asking them to get registered. But in the last 15 days, only 39 online applications were filed,“ said Ramesh, district education officer of Hyderabad.
 
 This means that a majority of institutes continue to run their business using shoddy means. These institutes find takers too, following the success of students in various entrance examinations, the results of which were declared in the last two months.
 
 Approximately 5 lakh students are enrolled in institutions for various exams such as IIT-JEE, NEET, UPSC and TSPSC, among others. Even though the 1997 GO specifies various norms for coaching institutions with regard to infrastructure, teaching facility and sanitation, majority of them seem to have conveniently flouted norms.
 
 “There are various coaching institutions in   and   that function out of small dingy rooms without ventilation and sanitation. Since there is no regulation to control them, many institutions don't even have qualified teachers,“ said Madhusudan Reddy, president of Telangana Government Junior College Lecturers Association.
 
 Telangana is among the few states in the country that has a government order regulating coaching institutions. In February this year, a petition was filed in the   by the Students' Federation of India (SFI) on the mushrooming “unrecognised“ private coaching institutions, allegedly in violation of Right to Education guidelines. Private coaching centres in the country need to be “regulated“ as these cannot be “wiped out“, the apex court had said as it asked the Centre to ponder over framing guidelines. The stu dent organisation claimed that poor implementation by the state government has led to expansion of the coaching industry.
 
 “The government has clearly failed to implement its own rules. It is unfortunate that despite having regulations in place, the coaching industry in the city runs without regulations,“ said Ramesh Kota, president of SFI, Telangana.
 
