AGARTALA: After the arrest of the prime accused in the alleged murder of   student Anwara Choudhury (19) - her maternal uncle, CPM cadre   (42) - agitating students took to the streets demanding the   who had issued her   and   who maintained that Anwara had died due to a cardiac arrest. The forensic report made public on Friday night shows Anwara had been poisoned. 

 Noor was sent to judicial custody for two days, while the court asked police to submit the case diary on Monday for deciding the police remand plea of the accused. 
 
 There was heavy deployment of police forces across the city. In an unusual scene, the entry gate of Agartala Women's Police station has remained closed since Saturday.
 
 According to a report, Anwara was shifted to Agartala Government Medical College (AGMC) with severe abdomen pain on April 9, where she died for lack of treatment on April 10. The doctor on duty mentioned that Anwara had died because of a cardiac arrest, and Noor and his family immediately buried her.
 
 "The neighbours and her friends saw fresh blood stains on her nose but when they asked about these to Noor, he was furious and stopped the discussion. Hurriedly, the body was buried by Islamic rituals. Immediately, we went to police station and requested to ensure post-mortem of the body and forensic test but we were thrown out by the police," alleged Manisha Roy, a college student who joined the movement following a social media campaign.
 
 She accused police and doctors of joining hands with Noor to cover the crime committed by him and his family. After the post-mortem report indicated signs of poisoning and the student agitation snowballed, the buried body was exhumed for a forensic test.
 
 Trinamool Chhatra Parisad (TMCP) alleged that the Left Front government had tried to manipulate the forensic test too, but scientists held out because of the momentum the popular protest againt Anwara's alleged murder.
 
 "We were monitoring each and every step of the investigation of the case when SFI state President Nilanjana Roy on April 14 warned agitating students to be prepared for action. She requested police to take action against the agitators if their claims are not established. It indicated their attitude towards the criminal," alleged TMCP President Viky Prasad.
 
 He demanded the police to register suo motu case against Nilanjana Roy for making an attempt to influence the entire process of investigation through her statement apart from action against the doctor and the police officers.
 
 
