With the stage clearED and the first two dubbed films in   released, the industry debates 

 
 
 
 I am definitely not for  . The problem is that our industry is already battling very hard to release films with limited screens with at least 3-4 films releasing every week. Most of these dubbed films have bigger releases of their original versions as well in the bigger centres in the state, like Bengaluru, Mysuru and Hubballi. Now, releasing Kannada dubbed films in the remaining screens will eat into our limited market. Imagine if a big film like   were to be released with a Kannada-dubbed version, we will lose out on even more screens and the industry will suffer. 
 
 
 
 There are always two sides to any issue, we need to look at both the for and against arguments. We do have a theatre crunch and our industry and market is not as big as our neighbouring states. So, releasing dubbed films in Kannada can hit newcomers’ films, which will, in turn, affect the livelihood of many workers and technicians. At the same time, we cannot ban art. Dubbed shows like Satyameva Jayate have educated many and will be good if they release in Kannada as well. People cannot go about inciting others with threats to burn theatres; this is unacceptable. The government should allow dubbing, yet protect the interest of Kannada cinema with the right measures.
 
 
 
 J Krishnamurthi has released films in Kannada, like  , a dubbed version of a small-budget Hindi film, My Husband’s Wife, which was released across Karnataka last week in areas except Bengaluru. Today, he is releasing a dubbed version of Ajith’s Yennai Arindhaal in centres like Mysuru, Hubballi and other places in Karnataka. “We have received threats, including that they will pelt stones and set theatres on fire, as well as death threats. We have films ready and will release them including in Bengaluru soon,” says Krishnamurthi. Talking about big-budget films, he says, "Makers of films like Baahubali have been ready to release a Kannada dubbed version of their film. But they are still weighing the pros and cons, considering the agitation here."
 
