CHENNAI:   or   (CWP) might no longer be a condition restricted to workers given that tonnes of   are being indiscriminately dumped in the open by the state’s thermal stations. The CAG report points to as much as 69.58 million tonnes of ash lying undisposed by the PSUs against the government guidelines.

 Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) was found to have spent less than 10% (`61.91 crore) of its revenue of `625.93 crore allocated for disposal of fly ash. This is despite the MoEFCC guidelines that it should earmark the entire sum. Another cause of concern is the power plants’ emissions of carbon dioxide, sulphur dioxide and nitrogen oxides. "According to the ministry of environment norms suspended particulate matter (SPM) should not exceed 150 milligrams per cubic metre (mg/Nm3). But SPM levels at all five units in Tuticorin and in similar units in Mettur and north Chennai thermal power plants were above the permissible levels," said the CAG report. 
 
 Doctors warn that continuous exposure to these gases and fly ash could lead to a range of ailments from chronic lung disease to asthma and cancer. "These gases and fly cash can irritate the mucus membrane. It can irritate the lining of the wind pipe and nose causing sinusitis, bronchitis, asthma, wheezing and chest tightness. Prolonged exposure would lead to chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, inflammation of nasal passage, blockage and excessive secretion of mucus. In extreme cases it may also lead to lung cancer and pleural cancer," said Dr Sridhar R, a city-based pulmonologist.
 
 The CAG report notes that "dust particles emitted while processing coal contains metals such as lead, mercury, nickel, tin, and others that could cause health problems with prolonged exposure. 
 
 In the past five years, the three thermal plants have consumed 82.71 million tonnes of coal and generated 25.81 million tonnes of ash. The plants also emitted 112.07 million tonnes of carbon dioxide, 1.12 million tonnes of sulphur dioxide and 3.3 million tonnes of nitrogen oxides.
 
 
