NEW DELHI: With the   planning to procure 1,000 smaller buses to augment the public transport fleet, Delhiites would soon find   and midi buses plying on capital roads.

 “We are planning to bring 1,000 midi and   in Delhi,” transport minister Kailash Gahlot told TOI. Gahlot said that these smaller-sized buses would ply on routes where standard size or low-floor buses had difficulty in operating.
 
 “The focus is on deploying these buses on roads where bigger buses can’t manoeuvre. These midi and mini buses would be able to reach areas that are at present almost inaccessible — like the narrow roads in unauthorised colonies or those with encroachments,” Gahlot said.
 
 A transport department official said that the proposal is being finalised at the moment and tenders for 1,000 midi and mini buses could be floated soon. The official also said that the process to procure midi and mini buses would be quicker compared to obtaining low floor and standard size buses.
 
 The induction of these buses would also increase the frequency of bus services. According to the government’s estimate, the city needs at least 11,000 public transport buses, but the actual number of buses on roads is only half of that. 
 
 While the Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) has 3,994 buses plying, the number of buses operated by the Delhi Integrated Multi-Modal Transit System (DIMTS) is 1,612.
 
 The official said that the idea is to run standard size buses on trunk routes, while midi buses could operate on both normal routes and narrow roads. 
 
 The mini buses would act as feeder bus services for arterial bus routes and would operate on narrow roads inside congested residential areas.
 
 A route rationalisation report prepared in 2012 by DIMTS also suggested that both standard size and midi and mini buses should be operated in the city to augment the public transport system.
 
 Apart from midi and mini buses, the government is also thinking over the idea of introducing electric buses in the city. 
 
 The Delhi transport minister said that a cost-benefit analysis for procuring electric buses is being carried out at present as the cost of these buses is four times that of standard buses.
 
