NASHIK: Newly detected   will now have to undergo a daily regimen of medication in a departure from three alternate day thrice-a-week drug regimen.

 The programme of administering medication to three new TB patients began at the   with a symbolic ceremony. 
 
 Senior officers such as district collector Radhakrishnan B, zilla parishad chief executive officer  , civil surgeon Ashok Jagdale, district health officer   and additional civil surgeon G M Holey and officials of the district   department were present at the programme. 
 
 District tuberculosis officer Yuvraj Deore said, “Around 500 new patients are detected across the district every month. The daily drug regimen will be started for all patients newly detected.” 
 
 Earlier, medicines were given to the patients with the help of the Daily Observation Therapy (DOT) providers. The patients now have the option of taking the medicines from DOT providers or DOT supporters, who can also be the family members. 
 
 In the past, there used to be a fix dose combination for TB patients. Four types of medicine are used for intensive phase and two are given for the continuation phase, which are provided in separate tablet form on alternate days and thrice a week. Now, the four to six varieties of medicines are included in a single tablet and the number of pills would vary as per the weight of the patient. 
 
 Taking into account that the daily regimen of medication would be new for everyone, the district health machinery has provided training to medical officers, district health supervisors, auxiliary nurse midwifery, multi-purpose and Asha workers, Anganwadi activists and pharmacists as well. Besides, private practitioners have also been acquainted with the new medication to be made available soon. 
 
 Currently, there are around 3,000 TB patients in the district. The health machinery has decided not to disturb the alternate-day regimen of patients who are already under treatment. The daily regime would be started only for the new patients. 
 
 The health machinery would be continuously monitoring if the patients were taking their medication on a daily basis. If they came across patients defaulting on the regimen, retrieval action will be taken against them to know the cause of why they have failed to take the medicines and how they should be brought on track.
 
