MUMBAI: Dressed in her Friday best on a Wednesday, Shubha Sharma from   or who she'd rather call her opponents on that evening. She may have been a   but she figured that this match was going to be tougher. “Because I was playing with one hand and drinking with the other,“ squealed Shubha who was a teetotaller until that night.

 Finding the time to sit down for a game that may require hours per session and can't be paused in the traditional sense, is “mission impossible“ for a mother of two children under ten. But that night out with friends was different for Shubha. “It was like turning the clock back to my student days --an indulgence that just hasn't been on the cards since I became a mom.“
 
 Like Shubha, young adults are ditching their playstation and   on weekdays to indulge in games and trivia matches for some face time fun with their buddies.
 
 After the Karaoke wave that hit the country and won over anyone with a vocal cord, on a game night, the group is divided into teams of four to six and made to compete over minuteto-win-it games such as Taboo, Dumb Charades, Beer Pong and Limbo. The playground is usually a bar with music and people are ready to put their pride on the line, toss ping-pong balls into a glass or arch their back under a limbo pole to chase free drinks and an evening of fun.
 
 Conscious of the feel-good quotient in bar games that allows one to challenge their friends, impress a potential fling or simply act like a kid, game operators are making hay while pub owners see in it a good way of bringing people in on a slow night.
 
 “Ever walked into a bar with friends and talked about nothing the entire night? The music was too loud and your phone was more interesting?
 
 Ever gone for a corporate event where all you've done is twiddle your thumbs and politely nod along?“ asks Dhruv Raj Gupta of SeekSherpa, an experiential group that has pioneered the new gaming trend. “The answer is usually a yawny yes,“ he says.
 
 Shubha agrees. One would think that sitting at a bar drinking a cocktail is good enough entertainment for mankind, but not always. “After a point, wom en and men break up into separate groups and end up in dull conversations about work, maids and kids. Left to ourselves we'd never think of playing these games but signing up for a game night is the best thing that happened to us. It recharged us, rid us of our inhibitions and made us realise that you're never too old to have some silly fun.“
 
 Games can actually help push sales. “Footfall and sales have seen a surge of 8-10% compared to weekdays in general,“ adds Sanju Arora, general manager of The Irish House, one of the many pubs in the city pulling in crowds every Tuesday and Thursday with themed game nights. December was about lining Christmas cards in arow on a table's edge and blowing on them to move them without letting it fall. “People love playing these quick, competitive games. Having a host helps create a playful environment with constant interaction, engagement and humour,“ says Arora.
 
 Social, which has been hosting board gaming days in collaboration with the  , hosted a mela recently where guests were made to throw darts and rings and hit a pyramid of cans with a ball as a community-building exercise.
 
 Popularity of these bar games lies in their simplicity and variety . While guests at Hoppipola are allowed to turn bartender and create their own drink every Wednesday , trivia nights rev up weekdays. The Barking Deer Brewpub had Game of Thrones fans from all over Mumbai streaming in for a quiz night on the show while Doolally Tap room in Bandra and Andheri hosts trivia nights every Wednesday ripe with craft beer and questions that swing from detecting anagrams to Beatles songs to fearsome reptiles.
 
 Companies, too, are seeing the merit of sending their employees to a game night as a team-building exercise. For, when they try to beat the clock with weird acts like stacking cups in the shape of a pyramid, miming a movie with head and hand movements, or unwinding aroll of toilet paper over a series of 360-degree spins, they are actually honing professional skills like collaboration, strategizing and presence of mind.
 
 And it doesn't matter whether you win or lose, they say. “With all that alcohol inside everyone, it's a win-win for all,“ gushes Shubha who has found purpose in a happy high.
 
