CHENNAI: The   is upon us, and it could take a turn for the worse. The storage in 15 major   in the state, which are sources of drinking water supply, is only 13% of their capacity. Water managers say these sources can last between 10 and 100 days, depending on where that area is.

 The worst hit are three reservoirs, Vaigai, Papanasam and Manimuthur catering to the southern districts. Vaigai which quenches the thirst of Theni, Dindigul, Madurai, Sivaganga, and Ramanathapuram can maintain its present supply only for ten days, with its current storage dwindling to 4% on Thursday.
 
 The other two reservoirs, which rely on Tamiraparani river, can manage supply for 40 days. Acute water crisis is imminent in Tirunelveli and Tuticorin districts, after the northeast monsoon left a large deficiency of rainfall (63%) until December. Siruvani, the major supplier of Coimbatore, can last only for a month, while Sathanur that caters to Tiruvannamalai and Villupuram, a fortnight. 
 
 TN Water Supply and   that maintains combined water supply schemes to cater to corporations, municipalities, town panchayats and rural habitations of 46,438 in the state, has reduced its supply to 83% now and is likely to reduce it further in the coming weeks. The severity of the crisis is much higher in the delta region, where Mettur dam has been the major source of water supply. 
 
 The dam storage as on Thursday stood at 11% of its total capacity, which does not bode well for districts like Salem, Erode, Namakkal, Karur, Trichy, Ariyalur, Thanjavur, Nagapattinam, Tiruvarur and Cuddalore. Some 127 water supply schemes depend on Mettur water to supply 1,050 million litres a day.
 
 Government sources said the drought mitigation plans have already been evolved by TWAD at Rs 172 crore. “We are taking a number of steps to mitigate the situation, which include creation of new borewells, besides infiltration wells and deepening of borewells to sustain the supply. Conservation of water should be taken seriously by water users,” said a senior government official.
 
 The officials do not foresee any problem in 528 town panchayats until February. However, due to decrease in groundwater level, a shortfall is expected in 350 town panchayats in all districts, barring Kanyakumari, for which a contingency plan has been prepared at Rs 47.46 crore to meet out the crisis from March, sources said.
 
 Private wells are being identified, generators, and trucks being identified for hiring, and committees are being formed at the panchayat level, including workers to sort out the crisis on a daily basis. Five town panchayats in Madurai, Theni and Virudhunagar have begun receiving water supply once in two and three days now. 
 
