BHOPAL: Even ISI handlers of their Indian spies know how to beat the demonetisation effect.

 When one of the 11 accused of espionage ring – Balram Singh bemoaned difficulty in money supply due to invalidation of high currency notes post demonetisation, his Pakistan handler was heard advising – "Tu chhoti chhoti dukan kolna shuru kar de or wahan se income show kar dena" (start opening small shops and show income from there).
 
 In the last two months multiple security agencies had intercepted calls between Balram Singh and his Pakistani handler, and in one of the conversation the latter was heard advising methods to manage funds and dodge income tax enquiries, said sources.
 
 “Aree yehan notebandi kay baad se halat kharab hain ….(scene after demonetisation is not good here)” Balram was heard telling to person on the other phone in Pakistan while discussing transaction of money in bank accounts. It was then that he was advised at length about fund management which including investing in small shops. 
 
 A police officer who was part of the investigation told this to TOI. Same was confirmed by sources in the MPATS.
 
 Balram Singh, 26 – resident of Suhash Village in Satna district of Madhya Pradesh became part of the cross-border lottery fraud two years ago and was apparently used by Pakistan handlers to transfer money to their ‘moles’ in India, said sources.
 
 His named had cropped up during investigations into monitory transactions of two alleged ISI ‘spies’ caught by security agencies from Jammu last November. Satvinder Singh alias Bittu and Dadu alias Lucky were arrested from Suchetgarh near Shamshan Ghat while found moving around in suspicious circumstances. Investigations revealed they were providing vital security related information to Pakistan through Whatsapp groups. 
 
 During investigation, police came to know that they were collecting the secret information regarding the “locations of army, Police and other security forces” and then supplying the same to Pakistan through Whatsapp groups and the money they got in return was deposited in their bank accounts.
 
 When the bank transactions were investigated, it was found that cash was deposited in Satvinder’s bank account from Satna district in Madhya Pradesh. 
 
 “And when the deposit slip in Satna was collected, handwriting matched with that of Balram Singh. He was kept under constant monitoring by central intelligence and MPATS since then,” – said an investigating officer. Balram had deposited payments ranging from Rs 20000 to Rs 40000 in three or four instalments after being asked by someone in Pakistan. 
 
 After being arrested by the MPATS in coordination with central agencies, Balram confessed to have deposited the money. He said he had never met Satvinder. “He was given a bank account and asked to deposit in cash. The money he deposited reached Balram from Pakistan through a well knitted   racket,” said the officer.
 
 He was a school dropout and was living in a rented house in Satna town for the last three years. His father owns 18 acres of land and was unaware of Balram’s conduct and source of income behind his lavish lifestyle.
 
 Police said Balram had also travelled to Dubai in search of job a few years ago. He had quit studies after failing in class 10th but had a good command over English. Charged with offences like waging war against the country, Balram is presently on remand with MPATS for next seven days and is being grilled for more details.
 
