CHENNAI: The ducks with glistening blue black feathers and a striking dark comb are back in the city. This time they are here in a larger flock and on an extended stay. More than 50 migratory   (Sarkidiornis melanotos), with their distinctive appearance, were sighted by bird watchers in   marshland, a part of   wetland.
 
 Such an unusual stay, beyond February, and in big numbers is surprising, observes The Nature Trust founder K V R K Thiruna-
 
 ranan, who monitors migratory birds in Pallikaranai. "Birders who visited the Perumbakkam area were surprised to spot more than 50 birds. The ducks which are known to stay during the winter, seem to have extended their stay and continue to be seen in the marshland," he said. Thirunaranan attributes their extended stay to the Vardah cyclone in December last, which had helped drain water from the marsh and fill it with freshwater. "Also the young birds always prefer to explore new areas. So the junveniles have come in a group to the marshland near the city," he said, adding that generally one or two comb ducks visit this part of the Pallikaranai marshland and stay for a week and return to their home in  .
 
 In the 1980s sighting a comb ducks was rare, agrees V Santharam, director of Rishi Valley School of Bird Studies. "There was one record of this bird being spotted in Karikili bird sanctuary near  . After that no sighting was reported. About a decade ago, comb ducks were again seen in Koonthankulam bird sanctuary in   district. Subsequently, a birder saw nest in the surrounding area. The bird is becoming common these days," Santharam said.
 
 Thirunaranan said, overall, this migratory season was better in the city and its suburbs, compared to other districts in  . More than 25,000 birds were recorded in Pallikaranai and the adjoining marshlands. "This many number of birds were reported in the area a few years ago and now again this season is very good," he observed.
 
 At a time when reports of many bird species are declining due to habitat loss and poaching, it is heartening to note that some rare winter visitors are being sighted regularly and in good numbers, said Santharam.
 
