NAGPUR: Though the peak summer travel season is near, dark clouds are hanging over the budgeted superfast air-conditioned train between   and Nagpur-Pune. There has been no move to extend the trains, even as their planned run has come to an end.

 Central Railway officials are themselves groping in the dark about future, even though they admit that it is peak summer season and passengers have been making frantic calls to book berths on these trains. The only hope now is the statement of   PD Patil, who said, “The train has been further extended for four trips to Amritsar and Pune from March 11.”
 
 The weekly Nagpur-Amritsar and Nagpur-Pune AC trains were announced on July 8, 2014, by then railway minister Sadananda Gowda on popular demand from passengers. However, over two years later, the single rake for Nagpur-Pune (22123-22124) and Nagpur-Amritsar (22125-22126) is being operated as a special train, with extensions from time to time. Interestingly, the trains already figure in the timetable but operate as special trains with numbers 02123/02124 and 02125/126.
 
 “We fear that the trains might wind up owing to railway apathy in regularizing them first. With the official last run over, extension is being granted at the last moment,” said regular traveller Harjinder Singh Juneja.
 
 A senior   official said, “We see no justification to extend the run of these special trains since there is 35-40% occupancy for both Pune and Amritsar.”
 
 Juneja counters the railway claims by pointing out their apathy. He says the train to Amritsar runs on Saturday, when there are at least five trains towards Delhi direction within a span of four hours. “Then, who would travel by Nagpur-Amritsar train?” asks Juneja.
 
 On Saturday, Telangana Express leaves from Nagpur at 4pm, followed by   at 5.15pm, Chennai-Nizamuddin Garib Rath at 8.45pm and Kerala Express at 8.30pm. The Nagpur-Amritsar also leaves at 5.45pm.
 
 Shockingly, Rail Yatri Sangh (RYS) chief Brijbhushan Shukla says while other trains reach Delhi in 15-16 hours, the Nagpur-Amritsar special takes over 20 hours, despite having fewer stoppages. The Garib Rath reaches Delhi in just 13 hours. “Who would prefer Amritsar train to travel to Delhi. This is perhaps the main reason why the AC train is not being preferred. It must be getting only the traffic for Amritsar,” says Shukla.
 
 “Another factor for low occupancy is that the train is being operated as a special, and hence neglected. In case of Pune, I’m not ready to believe that there is no occupancy. Daily 100 buses operate between Pune from Nagpur and all are packed. Why can’t railways get passengers,” asks Bharatiya Yatri Kendra secretary Basant Shukla.
 
 Shukla says the same AC train leaves for Pune on Tuesday, the day when Nagpur-Pune Garib Rath operates. “Passengers will n prefer Garib Rath. Besides, these special trains have never been punctual. The Railway Board needs to first regularize them,” he said.
 
 In a nutshell
 
 The special trains were announced on July 8, 2014
 
 Only single rake operated for Nagpur-Pune & Nagpur-Amritsar 
 
 The special trains get only 35-40% occupancy 
 
 Regular travellers fear the train may wind-up 
 
 Nagpur-Amritsar special takes over 20 hours despite fewer halts
 
