Hyderabad: In line with its ambitions to emerge as a coastal cargo hub on the east coast of the country,   Container Terminal (KPCT) has decided to set up a dedicated coastal cargo berth by May end to handle the growing coastal cargo traffic.

 The container terminal, which handled 2,55,000 TEUs (Twenty-foot Equivalent Units) of cargo in 2016-17 and is eyeing around 3,50,000-400,000 TEUs this fiscal, has also set its sights on pharma cargo coming to and originating from Hyderabad as well as scrap imports, among others, to propel the next phase of growth. “We already have two berths. We will now be setting up a dedicated smaller berth for coastal cargo, which should be ready by May end. We already have a 650 metre berth length and just have to move the agri cargo that we were handling at one end and put up some equipment instead to start off,” KPCT director Vinita Venkatesh told TOI, adding that the terminal is looking at around 5000 TEUs per month of coastal cargo exports and 2000 TEUs per month of imports.
 
 Talking about KPCT’s plans to tap the pharma sector, she said the terminal has become one of the few ports to have got permission from the government to handle pharma API imports (mainly from China) and finished drugs exports to US and Europe (via Jebel Ali in Dubai) and is actively wooing the sector in the Hyderabad region.
 
 She said that despite an oversupply of container handling capacity in the country and more competition brewing down south with the Adani group all set to throw open its container terminal at Ennore, she said Krishnapatnam still remains the best bet for importers and exporters from Hyderabad because of the distance advantage and the fact that the port already has freight rail connectivity to the city. “As for scrap imports, which the government has recently opened up, our scanner will be in place by May. There are these pockets of steel industry like Srikalahasti and Naidupeta that are clearly closer to Krishnapatnam than any other port and we are looking at around 5000 TEUs per month of this for our hinterland,” she said.
 
 She said KPCT, which currently has a draft of 13.5-14 metres, is now deepening it to nearly 15-15.5 so that it can handle larger sized vessels. “We have our own dredgers and have started the work,” she said.
 
 The container terminal, which has a 1.7 million TEUs capacity that was set up at an investment of Rs 1,500 crore, currently handles import cargo like newsprint, waste paper, machinery, organic liquid fertilizer, building fittings, polyethylene, coffee timber, tiles as well as export cargo such as cement, granite, minerals, coffee, barium powder, potassium powder, glass bottles as well as cotton and cotton yarn, worth around $1 billion.
 
 
