MUMBAI:   Enterprises (PEL) Chairman   may consolidate his control in  , the holding company of the financial services entities of Chennai-based   group, by increasing his stake to one third from one fifth and naming a key executive as the firm’s chief executive officer.

 A hike in Piramal shareholding could pave way for the merger of Shriram Capital with the financial services business of PEL, creating India's largest nonbanking financial company. This will give the merged entity access to cheaper capital while bringing down the leverage ratio. “It is an option we have…and it is clear they (Shriram group) want it,’’ Piramal, 61, said. “We will see what is to be done at the right time.’’
 
 Rajesh Laddha, the chief financial officer of Piramal group, looks set to take charge as Shriram Capital CEO soon. The appointment has the blessings of both partners, including Shriram group founder R Thyagarajan.
  
 “We will be happy if Piramal increases his shareholding to one third as it will strengthen our partnership,’’ Thyagarajan told ET.
 
 He added that for the past 18 months he has been suggesting to Piramal to have a much stronger role for Laddha in Shriram Capital. “Management and enterprise will do better if the better managed person is shifted to a different role,” Thyagarajan added. Laddha will replace Ramky Subramanian, who will retire from the group over time.
 
 “If you look at the whole play, R Thyagarajan is fairly senior in age. His successors are not interested in taking over. I am not surprised that Piramal wants to consolidate his hold,” said Ashvin Parekh, managing partner at Ashvin Parekh Advisory.
 
 “His investments will make a big statement on his confidence in the financial sector,” Parekh said. PEL owns 20% of Shriram Capital, employee-focused Shriram Ownership Trust holds 45% while South African Insurer Sanlam has 26%. The rest 9% is with US private equity fund TPG Capital, which Piramal has the option of buying. Piramal has shown interest in charting out a different future for Shriram Capital after PEL purchased 20% in Shriram Capital for `2,014 crore in 2014. Last year, he appointed McKinsey with a mandate to accelerate growth. “We all know the strategy, but how to implement it and train people is key to a successful firm,” Piramal said.
 
 Piramal is also restructuring his two businesses by demerging the financial services and pharma units in order to bring in more transparency and accountability besides offering a choice to shareholders to own   in any of the businesses. “There was a lot of demand from investors who said as your financial services become bigger we won’t be able understand it,’’ Piramal said. “We are moving some way towards that… We have put our loan book in a subsidiary.’’
 
 “We are in the wholesale business and Shriram is in the retail business. In the long term, we will see what makes sense for Shriram shareholders and Piramal shareholders. We will examine it at the right time,” Piramal had said in an interview to ETin May 2016. He had also ruled out consolidation of businesses.
 
 “All these three businesses whether it is City Union, Transport or PEL are all doing well and they have enough runway. Today if we try looking at consolidation we will probably destroy the value and run rate,’’ Piramal said. “You have to remember Shriram has 500,000 employees. To integrate them two years will be lost. When we find that the growth rates are not going to be as aggressive as today we will look at it.”
 
