Nagpur: In an interesting turn to the PIL challenging Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) decision to construct compound wall and internal roads at Dr Hedgewar Smarak Samiti’s premises in Reshimbag, the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) dropped a bombshell by stating that it has “no role to play in Samiti’s working”. The startling revelation came through an affidavit filed in the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court on Tuesday by RSS general secretary Suresh Bhaiyaji Joshi, in response to the notice issued in last hearing. The entire premises of Samiti was often referred as RSS headquarters and the disclosure comes as big surprise. Terming the PIL as “political interest litigation”, the Sangh also asked for directives to the petitioner to delete its name from the respondents while accusing him of acting with ulterior motives. The newly constituted division bench comprising justices Bhushan Dharmadhikari and Swapna Joshi adjourned the hearing after Diwali vacations while asking the civic body and its Standing Committee to submit reply before that. Even the petitioner sought time to reply on saffron organization’s demand withdraw all adverse allegations made against the latter. The court was hearing PIL filed by social activist Janardhan Moon through his NGO Nagari Hakk Saurakshan Manch objecting to the civic body’s decision to splurge Rs1.37 crore on Dr Hedgewar Smruti Mandir premises, contending that it wasn’t even registered as an organization with charity commissioner’s office, here.  The affidavit by Joshi, referred as Sarkaryawah in Sangh Parivar’s parlance, described the RSS as a “voluntary organization”, established on Vijayadashmi (Dussehera) in 1925, and carrying out its aims and objects since inception and known nationally and internationally. He clarified that Dr Hedgewar Samiti is separate and independent society, registered under the Societies Act, 1960, having its own memorandum of association and independent managing committee. The premises where the compound wall and internal roads are proposed belonged to Samiti. While praying for PIL’s dismissal as it was filed with political intention, the Sangh accused petitioner for deliberately making the misleading statements against it. The affidavit stated that the petitioner had earlier filed applications with the charity commissioner and Maharashtra chief minister with same contentions. Both were rejected on the ground that RSS wasn’t registered with charity office. Afterwards, Moon filed an application without any bona fide for registration of society in name of RSS, with a view to create confusion and cause prejudice. “It clearly shows that Moon is filing frivolous litigations against the RSS for ulterior motive and falsely impleaded it in the PIL,” Joshi mentioned, while demanding imposition of heavy and exemplary costs on petitioner. Citing media reports, the petitioner contended that though RSS is an unregistered organization, the civic body is still extending undue favours to them at taxpayers expense. In a series of reports, TOI exposed that though the rules make an exception for notified tourist sites or pilgrim places like Deekshabhoomi, the RSS headquarter is neither of these. The petitioner argued that the BJP-ruled corporation always cite reason of financial crunch when it comes to mandatory works like road, potholes and gutter line repairs. The rains have badly exposed its tall claims of good roads with majority of them riddled with potholes. Even schools run by the civic body are in pathetic conditions, but its officials didn’t have funds to improve their condition. It doesn’t have the funds to build storm water network on roads which often led to rainwater gushing down nearby homes.