PANAJI:   are hoping to see a change in the functioning of the tourism ministry — the   (GTDC) and tourism department — now that a new government is there in place. Stakeholders are unhappy about the functioning of the tourism ministry which they said has failed to deliver on many counts.

 Many of GTDC’s big ticket projects such as amphibious bus services, sea planes and helicopter services are on hold for various reasons. Also, the multi-level car park facility has not become functional yet.
 
 Savio Messias, president of   (TTAG), said many infrastructure projects of the GTDC have been slow in taking off and it doesn’t bore well for an international tourist destination like Goa. Beach shack operators, especially those who have been in the business for over two decades are also upset with the government for not giving in to their demand of formulating a special policy for traditional beach shacks.
 
 Goa Shack Owners’ Welfare Society (SOWS) president   said the request for a special policy for beach shacks have fallen on deaf ears. None of the beaches in South Goa have basic facilities like washrooms and parking lots. Some don’t even have proper access roads.
 
 Many complained of loss of business during the first two months after the tourism season kicked off in November 2016. Due to delays in issuing licences, beach shack operators were unable to set up shacks until the end of November. “I hope, at least for the next season, licences will be issued in September,” said Cardozo.
 
 Stakeholders are also unhappy with the government for not setting up the tourism promotion board. “The proposed tourism promotion board is in stark contrast to what we had suggested. It comprises government officials from the tourism department, GTDC and tourism secretary with one or two professionals. We will end up creating another government body,” said a trader, who did not wish to be named.
 
 The tourism association had suggested that the board, like the ones that are operational in other international tourist destinations, should comprise professionals with little or no scope of interference form the government.
 
 “What has been proposed in draft tourism policy is creation of another body which would overlap with the functioning of GTDC and tourism department. If that is the case, it’s better not to have a similar body,” the trader said.
 
 Some stakeholders feel that not much attention has been paid towards spending by GTDC on travel marts and road shows. “An audit needs to be conducted to ascertain percentage increase in tourist arrivals,” he said.
 
