NEW DELHI: The   has turned the tide. It has bounced back from the long slowdown since 2007. In the last financial year (201617), hotels across all segments recorded occupancy of over 65% for the first time in eight years, according to hospitality consultancy firm HVS. Indian hotels had seen their rooms this full last time in 2007-08.

 Achin Khanna, MD of consulting and valuation at HVS  , said, "While data for FY 2016-17 is still being collected, initial indicators showed over 65% occupancy after eight years. This has happened due to the overall economic growth that has led to travel picking up which requires accommodation. Domestic leisure travel has picked up in a big way."
 
 Chinmai Sharma, chief revenue officer for the  , said the domestic Indian leisure traveller is one of the fastest growing customer segments, which has also reduced dependence of luxury chains on international travellers. "We are witnessing an increase in international arrivals in India for number of reasons like improvement in ease-of-doing business and e-visas to nationals of more countries. Given the current global scenario, India is also being seen as a safe destination with a lot of unexplored potential at a reasonable cost," said Sharma.
 
 Hotel room supply in India grew at 7-8% last year and is expected to be at the same range for the next three years.On the other hand, demand is growing at 11-14%. "With demand outweighing supply and outlook for travel remains positive, the upward trend is expected to continue," said JeanMichel Cassé, COO of AccorHotels (India and South Asia).
 
 However, average room tariff (of all segments ranging from five start deluxe to two stars) are nowhere close to the level of Rs 7,989 in 2007-08. While guests are returning to hotels, average tariff is still around 30% lower at Rs 5,500, according to HVS, which monitors branded or organised sector hotels across segments.
 
 Jean-Michel Cassé, said: "Steady flow of foreign tourists, pick-up in leisure activities and growing business travel fuelled the growth for hospitality players in India over the past couple of years. After a few dips along the way, the sector witnessed an upcycle recently as the nationwide weighted occupancy swelled by 6%, reaching a five-year high of over 60% in FY16.... The trend has continued well into this year, with some of the leading branded players reaching up to 65% and higher occupancy so far in 2017, highest the sector has recorded in almost a decade."
 
 Kapil Chopra, president of the  , said: "We are seeing a more robust demand pipeline this year as compared to last year. The sentiment is positive and we see good business for the summer and winter season. We believe if the momentum that has just started to build continues, then we could see close to a 10% growth in average room rates led by our resort hotels."
 
