MANGALURU: What does it take for a former railway minister to get a train announced by him in a railway budget operational? Boycott a function organized by the current railway minister to get across this point unequivocally. This is what D V   did to get his successor Suresh Prabhu flag off the train 16575/16576 Yeshwanthpur-Mangaluru Junction-Yeshwanthpur tri-weekly express operational from Sunday. 

 The occasion was the dedication of new railway line from Bengaluru-Hassan by Suresh Prabhu. Peeved that train 16575/76 announced by him in the only railway budget that he presented and fondly christened it   was yet to be operational, Sadananda Gowda boycotted the function. This and subsequent exchange that he had with Suresh Prabhu had a salutary effect in that the railway minister agreed to flag off the train via video-conferencing.
 
 Pouring out his anguish at the delay, Gowda told STOI that 18 out of 19 new trains announced by him in the railway budget are operational. “Kudla Express, a day train service was not made operational for various flimsy reasons. Lack of interest shown by DK MP Nalin Kumar Kateel in following up this budget proposal too aided this delay,” Sadananda Gowda said adding the “Number 1 MP” must also focus on development and not just emotive issues.
 
 Not reading too much in to decision of   to operate this train up to Mangaluru junction and not Mangaluru Central as announced in the budget, Sadananda Gowda said, “Let the train start first. I will assure you that the train will come to Mangaluru Central. I am in touch with authorities of Southern Railway including DRM at Palakkad. They have assured to make necessary adjustments to ensure this trains starts and ends at Mangaluru Central,” he said.
 
 About reasons for pushing for this train and for being passionate about it, Sadananda Gowda said, “This train will help young and old alike enjoy scenic beauty of Western Ghats. It is safe for women and children to travel in a day train. ” The train traverses through the ghat between Subrahmanya Road and Sakleshpur and is popular among trekkers who use it to alight at station enroute, he said reiterating his resolve to ensure it touches base with Mangaluru Central. 
 
