DHARAMSHALA: The US Congressional delegation’s meeting with the Dalai Lama on Wednesday turned out to be a   and their support to the   The delegation, led by Democratic Party leader  , is on a two-day visit to Dharamshala.

 Recollecting the US Congressional visits to Tibet in November 2015, Pelosi said, “We went to Potala Palace and saw the room where His Holiness lived. We promised each other then and there that we would do everything in our power to make sure he would return to that place.”
 
 Member of the US Congress for the past 38 years and the sole Republican in the bipartisan delegation, Jim Sensenbrenner said there was no disagreement between political parties in the US over love and respect for the Dalai Lama. “We stand in solidarity with the Tibetan people, to free them of the oppression that has been put since a very long time from Beijing,” he said.
 
 “China needs to understand that years of repression have not dulled the excitement in the Tibetans. We call upon Chinese government to respect human rights,” said Congressman Jim McGovern. He also reiterated their pledge to work for the day when the Dalai Lama and Tibetans can go back to Tibet and practice their religion freely. 
 
 Describing the US as the global leader for world peace, the Dalai Lama said, “My sincere hope is that the future of Tibet and China will move beyond mistrust to a relationship based on mutual respect, trust and recognition of common interests.” 
 
 The eight-member delegation was felicitated by Tibetans on the last day of their visit on Wednesday. Pointing to the pictures of the Dalai Lama’s meetings with US presidents -- Bill Clinton, Georege Bush and Barack Obama -- Tibetan Prime Minister Lobsang Sangay said, “The US Presidents have met His Holiness, as you can see from these pictures. I hope the new administration under Donald Trump will continue this tradition and meet the Dalai Lama soon.” He added that Washington should encourage dialogue between China and envoys of the Dalai Lama.
 
 Meanwhile, Chinese foreign ministry spokesman Geng Shuang has launched a diplomatic protest with US. “The meeting has sent very wrong signal to world about supporting Tibetan independence. It has violated the U.S. government’s commitment to not support Tibet’s independence,” he reportedly said in a statement.
 
