NAGPUR: More than 50 pro-Vidarbha activists of the ‘Freedom Vidarbha Movement’ staged a protest at Samvidhan Square on Friday, targeting   and the current  , which had promised a separate state while campaigning in the 2014 elections. The activists comprised students and members of various organization with the goal of a creating a separate Vidarbha state. They had gathered to protest the attack on the car of  , a strident Vidarbha supporter and former advocate general of Maharashtra, at Aurangabad by Shiv Sena workers.

 Raising slogans such as ‘Shiv Sena Murdabad’ and ‘Jai Vidarbha’, the protesters slammed the Shiv Sena and its motto of united Maharashtra. The protesters slammed the Sena for being biased against Vidarbha, and lashed out at them for the disruption and embarrassment they are bringing to the state. They also slammed the government for allowing the Shiv Sainiks to, time and again, take the law in their hands, even manhandling Aney on various occasion.
 
 Aney was in Aurangabad to inaugurate a programme organized by Marathwada Mukti Morcha, related to the demand for separate Marathwada state, when his car was attacked on Thursday.
 
 Dr Neha Palandurkar, a protester, said, “Our inspiration, Aney has been an advocate for separate Vidarbha and Marathwada for a long time and we are just on carrying forward his thoughts. We condemn his attack and demand immediate action against the culprits.” Gunwant Somukar, president, Jamwant Foundation, said, “The BJP should not go back on its election promises, and support the people of Vidarbha.”
 
 When asked about low turnout of protesters, he said, “We have more than 1,000 volunteers across Nagpur. I request the youth to stand up and protest if they actually want change for this region.” He said the initiative of youth had led to formation of Telangana.
 
 Freedom Vidarbha president Narendra Palandurkar and other protesters also demanded that the government look into the matter.
 
 (Reporting by Praveen Tewari)
 
 
