Hyderabad: It is the big Asia story that Bengaluru-based Capillary Technologies, which primarily helps enterprises grow their businesses by engaging with customers via omni-channel solutions, is betting big on. 

 And riding the Asian tigers, the company is gunning for a run rate of $50 million revenues next fiscal, said Capillary Technologies co-founder and CEO Aneesh Reddy
 
 “In the short-term, we are aiming at a run rate of $50 million by the end of March 2018. We will have to grow about 2X to get there. We also have a long-term plan of building five products in the next three years. We have three now. It will be good to have at least seven to eight products that can get us $100 million revenues each year over the next eight years,” Reddy said, adding that the growth in FY18 will be mainly accelerated by its sales force, that it plans to double from 15 to 30 soon.
 
 The company will also be foraying into Saudi Arabia, Indonesia and Thailand this year. Reddy pointed out that the company had forayed into China last year and the business there is scaling up rapidly. “Asia is a big market. The 11-12 countries where we are focussing on is an around $2.5 billion play. There are 6,000 large retail players with whom we can engage and we are probably at 1-2% of that now,” he added.
 
 Capillary Technologies had snapped up Hyderabad-based SaaS (Software as a Service) digital commerce solutions provider MartJack Enterprise in a cash plus equity deal in August 2015. The merger helped both companies expand their businesses as Capillary Technologies used to offers retailers offline solutions to boost sales, while MartJack offered online solutions, making them a formidable team offering omni-channel solutions to clients.
 
 Capillary Technologies has 510 employees on it rolls, of which 200 are in Hyderabad at MartJack’s office. The company expects to add another 60-70 in Hyderabad this year. 
 
 After MartJack, the company acquired a machine learning startup Ruaha Labs in September 2015 and Sellerworx, an e-commerce technology services firm, in September 2016.
 
 Capillary Technologies was co-founded by IIT-Kharagpur graduates Aneesh Reddy, Krishna Mehra and Ajay Modani in 2008. It has raised around $79 million till date from players such as Warburg Pincus, Qualcomm Ventures, Norwest Venture Partners, Sequoia Capital and American Express Ventures. In December 2016, Google's Rajan Anandan was an early investor in Capillary Technologies and joined its board as an advisor in December 2016. 
 
 The company currently enables over 25,000 stores and 2,000 enterprise e-commerce implementations across 30 countries.
 
 
