Nagpur: Finally, it was business as usual at   in the city on Saturday, as the staffers anxiously awaited what came next from Prime Minister Narendra Modi.

 Sources said, “It is so far so good. The RBI seems to have geared up for the coming days when limits may be increased.”
 
 Last week, a meeting of local bankers was held at the RBI office to assess   requirements. A number of banks gave indents to the full capacity of their currency chests, ranging up to over Rs300 crore.
 
 A meeting to assess the number of scrapped notes collected by commercial banks was also held on Saturday.
 
 No queue was seen at bank counters, as the rush had gradually receded. Moreover, some ATMs which were so far closed too had cash. Preparations were underway to dispense cash in line with the new daily limit of Rs4,500.
 
 Much has improved in the last two months. “The deposit of scrapped currency was negligible in the last one week. Now, the deposit of new currency has overtaken that of the banned notes,” said a source in a major PSU bank having its presence in the region.
 
 “The situation is much better in cities, but it’s not so good in the rural areas. Though the cash flow has increased in villages, there are times when the branches have to go without cash,” said another source in a PSU bank.
 
 Practical difficulties on account of  , however, have not ended entirely. Down with cash, the people are now making payments through  . This has clogged the   at banks.
 
 These days, cheques are scanned and sent to other bank’s end instead of physical exchange at the clearing house. The number of cheques being received at banks has more than doubled. In some banks, the number has gone up by 8 to 10 times, sources said. Cheques are being drawn for amounts less than a thousand as well.
 
 This has clogged the systems even delaying online transfer of cheque data. As against three days, it is taking at least 5 days to clear the same city cheques. It is worse in rural areas and for outstation cheques, sources said.
 
 “We are working to bring back the time lag to one or two days for same centre cheques. It is expected to happen by next week. The pendency up to last 4 days has been cleared now,” said a PSU bank source.
 
 The general public, on the other hand, is waiting for some relaxation in withdrawal limits. “I am hoping that the cap on ATM withdrawal is entirely removed finally, and cash is available freely,” said Mohan Batra, a businessman.
 
 “The hike in limit to Rs4,500 may finally help those who need cash on a day-to-day basis,” said Rakesh Patel, another businessman. 
 
 “Sometimes, ATMs only have Rs2,000 notes and it is difficult to get its change,” said Gaurav Batra, a student.
 
 
