MANALI: Residents of tribal Spiti valley threatened to collect funds themselves and hire machinery to clear snow from roads if the   ( ) failed to open roads for vehicular traffic in a week. Village residents said blocked roads cost the lives of two persons in the valley this season.

 Sources said the issue has reached the defence ministry in Delhi and BRO has been asked to start   work in   district on war footing. Losar and Hal panchayats have passed a resolution that if BRO fails to clear snow, they will collect money from villagers and hire snow cutters and dozers for the work. The resolution has been forwarded to Lahaul-Spiti MLA Ravi Thakur and snow clearance has now become a poll issue. Former minister Dr Ram Lal Markanda, with help of MP from Mandi constituency   raised the issue before the defence ministry.
 
 “The MLA is in deep slumber and BRO machinery is stuck in snow. The plight of poor people, who have no road connectivity, is being ignored. Most roads in both Lahaul and Spiti are blocked. Spiti doesn’t even have an emergency helicopter service like Lahaul. Now that we have raised the issue in Delhi, I have reports that BRO has started clearing snow in some places,” Markanda said.
 
 Losar panchayat pradhan Takpa Dorje, Hal panchayat pradhan Chhering and BDC chairman from Spiti Gaju have supported the resolution to clear snow from roads with help of local residents. Gaju accused BRO of not listening to directions of the administration or MLA. He said the   road is maintained by BRO but the organization is not showing interest in keeping it clear.
 
 Very heavy snowfall in parts of Himachal has crippled life in tribal areas. Lahaul-Spiti is still covered with a thick layer of snow and many avalanches and landslides have blocked the roads in Lahaul. Kunzum Pass, which divides Lahaul from Spiti valley is under more than 20 feet snow. the valleys are expected to connect with each other only after mid June. Rohtang and Baralacha passes are covered with 20 to 30 feet of snow. Local resident, hoteliers and travel agents are worried that the snow clearing operation on Manali-Leh highway has not started and it may take more time to open the highway to the tourism industry.
 
 BRO commander at 38 Border Road Task Force (BRTF) said snow clearance in Lahaul-Spiti is on in both Lahaul and Spiti. “We are clearing snow from major roads first. We will officially start clearing snow from Manali-Leh highway. The road will be opened in time,” he said.
 
 
