NAGPUR:  , 26, is recuperating at a private hospital in north Nagpur after sustaining serious injuries on his hand and face during a clash with his neighbours at Nazul layout last week.   have arrested four persons, including two women, from   for their involvement in assaulting Nagdeve and his kin Sulochana Khobragade who too is injured. On Sunday, the four have been sent to police custody remand for a day.

 The arrested persons have been identified as Rajesh Francis and his brother Raju Francis. Raju’s wife Khusboo too has been arrested. Another younger brother of Rajesh, Suresh has been spared from being booked but his wife Manisha has been taken into custody for attacking Rohit with sticks, bricks and other materials apart from raining blows on him. The fight had started following an argument between Khusboo and Rohit. When TOI visited the residence of Francis family, it was observed that the place was locked but left ransacked. An altar, inside the premises of Francis family, was also left damaged. 
 
 Jaripatka police said that even a case of assault has been registered against Rohit, Sulochana alias Pinki and others for assaulting members of Francis family. The case was immediately registered against Rohit, Sulochana and others after the fight last week. The case against Francis family was registered on Saturday as one of the cops from Jaripatka police station said that Rohit and Sulochana opted to get admitted at a hospital rather than approaching cops. 
 
 The Khobragade family and their neighbour Rajesh Francis, his brothers, their wives and children had been at loggerheads for several years. It has come to fore that the families had been targeting each other on various issues ranging from nuisance created during constructions to assisting rivals of one another. After Francis family erected a double-storeyed house, the Khobragades too began construction at their place which escalated the dispute. The ongoing tussle had increased manifold last year when Khobragade family helped one Vaibhav Chavan to get bail in a case of raped filed by a minor member of Francis family at Gittikhadan police station. Vaibhav too has been now booked along with Sulochana and Rohit for joining in the fight against Francis.
 
 Investigation officer API Keshav Wagh of Jaripatka police station said the families had a fight on May 6 and also later on May 11. “We had seen the CCTV footage of the incident in which it is evident that both the parties were acting aggressively,” he said. 
 
