LUCKNOW: The joint exercise by STF and oil companies to check tampering at fuel stations continued for the third day on Sunday. Two more fuel stations were sealed as evidence of tampering by installing electronic devices was found in the dispensing units. 

 One of these, at Chatamil on Sitapur highway, is owned by B N Shukla, president of UP Petrol Pump Dealers’ Association. On Saturday, another of Shukla’s   in Madiaon was sealed. 
 
 Additional superintendent of police Arvind Chaturvedi said Indian Oil and   pumps located at Chatamil and Thakurganj, respectively were seized on Sunday. A third pump near KKC on Station Road was checked but nothing was detected.
 
 STF, employees from weight and measurement department and staffers of oil companies conducted the raid. Acting on specific tip-off, sleuths from special task force started checking fuel stations across the city since Friday night.
 
 The scale of fraud is huge as out of 13 petrol pumps which have been examined till now, 11 were found tampered with. 
 
 “We discovered that dispensing units of Chatamil pump had been tampered with. The chip had been forcibly removed and traces of soldering were evident on machines,” said Chaturvedi. At the other pump, the team found three electronic chips and three remote units.
 
 In both the places, area rationing officer (ARO) lodged FIRs at the local police station against the staff deployed at the pump. Chaturvedi said that in the coming days, action on people owning the pumps will be also taken. A seven-member police team of inspector- and sub-inspector rank-officers had been constituted to probe the entire racket which will be directly monitored by SSP.
 
 The team had been taking the help of Rajinder, the supplier of the chip who was arrested on Friday and is in police custody.
 
 The road ahead
 
 Lucknow: The team working on the case had yet to find out since when Rajinder and other players like him started supplying the remote-operated electronic devices to petrol pump dealers. The device was used to pilfer up to 5% fuel. Though customers paid entire amount, they got less quantity while taking up. So far, STF has arrested more than two dozen people (majority being petrol pump staffers) but were yet to get to the bottom of things.
 
 Chaturvedi said that the manufacturer of the device or its main supplier was untraceable. “Rajinder had given us some names who sold him the chips. He sold it to dealers by adding his commission. He does not know anything beyond that,” said Chaturvedi.
 
 The team is taking help of oil companies and has also approached Gilbarco and Midco, the companies which manufacture fuel dispensing units to find out how the hack worked. Chaturvedi said that tampered machines will be sent to Gilbarco and Midco or other manufacturers. “The companies will help us investigate the case and collection of evidence,” said Chaturvedi.
 
 
