NEW DELHI: Prime Minister   reiterated his firm stand against corruption at the   that concluded in the capital on Monday. 

 Highlighting that he himself has "no relatives" to benefit, the PM promised strict action against the corrupt.
 
 
 
 "My battle against corruption is uncompromising. Anyone caught indulging in corruption will not be spared. I have no relatives (to benefit)," the PM said.
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 Union finance minister   shared the key points of the PM's speech at the meet, where the party also adopted a six-point agenda to rid the country of poverty, terrorism, casteism, communalism and corruption.
 
 
 
 The finance minister "paraphrased" the main points of the PM's address to his party's elected representatives, citing the number of attendees to highlight "the country's faith in the BJP." The meet was attended by 13 chief ministers, six deputy chief ministers, and more than 60 union ministers, besides the party's MPs and MLAs, among others.
 
 "Democracy must be seen beyond elections," the PM said. He stressed that "conventional politics like winning elections is ongoing, but the faith reposited in us by the people is a means to take democracy forward."
 
 PM Modi emphasised the idea of mass participation "to improve people's quality of life."
 
 "The main point of PM Modi's speech was that we should make the BJP an instrument of mass participation to improve people's quality of life," Jaitley said.
 
  
  
 
 The PM went on to outline the idea of a 'New India' where "all schemes will be taken to the public," and "party workers would act as a bridge between the BJP and the people."
 
 Jaitley said the PM charged the Opposition with the use of "harsh language" in the absence of any concrete charges against the government.
 
 "Harsh language can't be a subsitute for any substantive charge against the government," PM Modi said.
 
 Jaitley addressed the   stand-off and its resolution in the press briefing.
 
 "The Doklam crisis was a serious concern to country. The government's handling of the issue de-escalated the crisis," he said.
 
 In his speech, PM Modi also touched upon terrorism and his party's fight against it, the minister said.
 
 The PM is also expected to launch the   for the poor on Monday, which is the birth anniversary of Deendayal Upadhyaya.
 
  
  
 
 
