JAIPUR: The clash between BJP workers, led by its MLA from Ramganj Mandi,  , and the police in Kota continued to stir passions in the state.

 Police in Bikaner on Thursday boycotted the mess as a mark of protest for taking action against six policemen even as some retired police officers reached Kota to support their fellowmen.
 
 A medical report of the MLA also clarified that she had no injuries on her body which is contrary to her claims that she was thrashed by the cops. Congress workers also staged a protest and demanded the immediate arrest of the husband of MLA for slapping the circle inspector.
 
 After Kota, some parts of Jaipur, Jodhpur and Jalore also boycotted mess in protest. It may be recalled that BJP workers clashed with the police against a challan given by the police for public smoking which triggered violence and unrest in Kota.
 
 Yogendra Joshi, a retired police officer, reached Kota and was joined by other retired policemen who demanded permission for “silent protest” against action against policemen in Kota. However, he was not granted permission by the superintendent of police, Sawai Singh Godara. “They should give bangles to policemen. People are coming to police stations and slapping our men and we have been asked to be mute spectators,” he told newsmen in Kota.
 
 According to sources, the high-level committee also received the medical report of MLA Chandrakanta Meghwal which stated that she had not sustained any grave injuries.
 
 Amidst the imbroglio, Sreeram Badesara, the in-charge of   police station, who was allegedly slapped by Narendra Meghwal, the husband of Ramganj Mandi MLA, was sent to Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh on election duty. “After the clash, he was sent to the lines along with five other policemen. On Thursday, he was asked to report to Gorakhpur (UP) for election duty,” said a senior police officer.
 
 Angry with police action, allegedly under pressure from local politicians, the minority wing of the   in Kota also staged a protest outside the district collectorate. They demanded the arrest of Narendra Meghwal, who had allegedly slapped the in-charge of Mahaveer Nagar police station.
 
