GURGAON: Homebuyers are up in arms against the developer of   in   for not having completed the project in the last eight years, ever since it was launched in 2008.

 The aggrieved buyers gathered at the project site on Saturday to protest against   and demanded that the government take strict action against the developer for having taken them for a ride.
 
 In January, teams from the   (DTCP) and Huda, after the Allottee Grievance Redress Forum’s (AGRF) December 2016 directive, had visited Antriksh Heights to inspect the project, following which, Reliable Realtech submitted a timeline, promising to complete the remaining work by June 2017. Three months have passed since then but not a single stone has been moved on the site. It is highly unlikely that the developer would be able to complete the project in the next three months.
 
 The project was launched in 2008 and was expected to be completed in 2011.
 
 The plight of homebuyers of Antariksh Heights was first highlighted in TOI in July 2016. The issue was later taken up by AGRF in its December 2016 meeting.
 
 “DTCP had promised to review the progress of work at the site in March. Despite repeated reminders to the department, no such inspection has been carried out,” said homebuyer Sunil Revoo.
 
 The homebuyers, who have been waiting to get possession of their homes for several years now, are losing their patience. “Government should take strong action against the developer and ensure that it follows the department’s direction,” said Alok Mishra, another homebuyer, who, like many others, had booked a flat in Antriksh Heights in 2008 with the hope of moving into his new house in a few years. But even after eight years and making over 90% of the payment, he continues to wait to get possession.
 
 “Buyers are suffering from dual financial stress of having to pay EMIs and house rent owing to non-completion of the project. The developer has been repeatedly giving false promises for the last four and a half years and has even collected more than 90% of the funds from us,” said homebuyer N K Sharma.
 
 About 1,000 homebuyers had booked flats in 13 proposed towers of Antriksh Heights launched by Reliable Realtech in 2008 for developing the group housing society over 23.10 acres of land. A DTCP official said that a licence was given to one company for developing the housing society but its two partners, Jai Baghwan Garg and Rajbir Singh Goyat, divided the project and started developing the towers separately. “This is in violation of the licence norms. A notice has been issued to the developer,” said a DTCP official.
 
 “We will soon review the work done by the developer at the site,” said a senior DTCP official. A representative of Reliable Realtech, without elaborating on the work done by them at the site in last three months, said, “We are trying to complete the project.”
 
