HYDERABAD: Following two back-to-back incidents at the   in the last 10 days , authorities at the   are now seriously   on the number of attendants visiting the hospital. They are also planning to increase the security on the premises. 

 The state-run hospital has been in the limelight for all wrong reasons over the past few days. Authorities now want to improve crowd management inside the hospital. 
 
 The plans come even as director of medical education   alleged some 'malicious intent' behind the current case. Speaking about a previous incident when six-year-old Sai Pravalika died after the hospital administered a 'contaminated' bottle of saline, she said, " In the previous case as well, we were targeted. People think that we are sitting ducks in the office, but we will be sure to bring this case to a logical conclusion." 
 
 "For a bed capacity of 1,020 patients, we receive nearly 4,000 people every day, including patients and their attendants. For every patient, nearly four people visit the hospital as attendants. We will soon allow one attendant per patient to reduce the crowd inside the hospital," said M Ramani while speaking to reporters on Sunday. 
 
 Apart from this, the hospital is also planning to put in place visiting hours for patients' families. "Few years back, there were visiting hours for those wanting to meet patients admitted in the hospital. With lack of staff to keep a vigil on visitors, the crowd visiting the hospital increased drastically. We will soon impose visiting hours again so that there is lesser crowd inside the hospital," said Ramani. 
 
 According to officials, the state government is also planning to recruit hospital management staff. Managers will act as bridge between patients and the staff. The responsibility of recruiting such managers has been assigned to  . "The initiative will be started at the Gandhi and will be extended to other government-run hospital. A notification to fill up the hospital manager posts will be issued soon," said an official in the health department. 
 
