PUNE: Over 730 people died in   passing through the region this year till April with the month alone witnessing 200 casualties.

 Drunk driving, speeding and poor adherence to traffic rules triggered the surge in the number of fatal road accidents in   on national and state highways, as well as expressway and other roads, in April, which saw the highest number of fatal accidents (179) this year (see box).
 
 Statistics available with the state highway police reveal that between January and April, 736 people were killed in highway accidents and 75% of these were reportedly caused by human error.
 
 The data related to 11 districts -Pune, Satara, Sangli, Kolhapur, Solapur, Ahmednagar, Aurangabad, Jalna, Beed, Osmanabad and Latur -revealed that in 2017, more than 100 accidents occurred in each month on various state and national highways. As many as 840 people were injured in these accidents.
 
 State highway police officials attributed factors such as road condition, vehicular density and traffic load to the accidents. “However, 75% of the accidents occurred due to human errors such as not following rules, flouting speed regulations and careless and drunk driving,“ an official said.
 
 Ranjit Gadgil, programme director at Parisar, said “overspeeding“ was one of the biggest factors leading to the highway accidents. “Besides, many vehicles in India are not built as per international standards and, thus, are not quite safe. Vehicles abroad have safety featu res such as air bags. Also, the structural integrity of a car should be such that when an accident occurs, there is minimal impact on the driver and passengers,“ he added.
 
 An analysis of 155 MumbaiPune Expressway accidents from January to December 2016 analysed by J P Research India Private Limited revealed that cars constitute 54% of vehicles with at least one fatal occupant. Besides, 71% of vehicles had at least one seriously injured occupant, it added.
 
 “Trucks have the second highest share of fatal or serious injuries,“ said Vernon Chinnadurai, project lead (Pune Branch) at JP Research India Private Ltd.
 
 The research has been conducted under the   Sampling System-India project, an initiative financially and technically supported by a consortium of automobile original equipment  
 
