Dumka: Former   MLA from Littipara   is keen to return to the JMM and contest the by-election from the seat of former sitting MLA Anil Murmu.

 “I am seriously looking forward to my return to the JMM and contest the Littipara by-election,” said Marandi who had betrayed the party in the last assembly election and contested from his conventional seat Littipara on   ticket. He was, however, defeated by JMM rival Murmu.
 
 “Na hi guruji mere bina rah sakte hain na hi main unke bina (Neither can Guruji live without me nor can I without him),” Marandi said adding that there were no formal talks with the JMM leadership on his return.
 
 Sources say Marandi is keen to mend equations with the JMM after his relationship with the BJP turned sour. Simon has gone on record saying that he is nowhere in the BJP and has never been invited to the party meetings in his constituency and elsewhere.
 
 JMM insiders, however, say that Simon’s comeback to the party won’t be a cakewalk for various reasons. This time, Guruji’s youngest and third son   is planning to make his electoral debut as the party candidate for the seat.
 
 “Since Littipara is one of the most secured seats of the JMM, it is highly likely that Basant will be fielded from here in the by-election than Marandi who has the ‘dubious credential’ of shifting his political loyalty frequently,” said a senior JMM leader.
 
 The leader added that Marandi is also not likely to be preferred by the party’s working president Hemant Soren, as Marandi had opposed his the scion’s rise within the party. 
 
 “I will contest the by-election from Littipara assembly seat either as a JMM candidate or independently,” Marandi reiterated.
 
 JMM also has the option of choosing either of Anil Murmu’s wives as a contestant. 
 
 “We are yet to recover from the shock of his untimely death. However, our family is grateful for the huge turnout at his memorial service which marked his popularity among them,” Uniki Tudu, Murmu’s first wife, who is an employee in S P College Dumka, said.
 
