When I passed out of architecture college, during one of the many exploration visits to heritage temple sites, a senior architect, pointing out to the exquisite domes, beautiful arches and sturdy walls, rued that ancient Indian architecture has almost died, that the artisans and craftsmen have vanished. That tugged at my heartstrings. I thought, then why are we here? We have all the know-how and the resources. We have talented men and the advanced technologies…what stops us from recreating heritage architecture?”   reminisces about the very thought that turned out to be the seed that germinated to make him a temple architect of renown.

 Keen to showcase to the world that the Goan-style of architecture is an original typology and not derived from a fusion of Goan and Portuguese, as is commonly believed, Sadhale set about researching the pure Goan style of architecture. “When I landed my first project in temple conservation, that of Shree Shantadurga Kunkallikarin at Fatorpa, in 1983, I began exploring the true Goan style of temple architecture. I researched extensively on the subject, met renowned archaeologists, visited old temples and ruins at ancient temple sites, conducted joint explorations with the state government’s archaeology department, et al. I was ultimately convinced that Goan architecture is not a copy of other typologies, but was a typology on its own. I decided that I should contribute to Goan architecture and enrich it,” Sadhale says. 
 
 That steely resolve led to the construction of the grandiose temple of Shree Shantadurga Kunkallikarin, Fatorpa, built in true Goan style of temple architecture. “It was so liked by Goans all over, that this one single building made me a temple architect,” Sadhale says. 
 
 He says that the Indo-Portuguese architecture visible in many rural areas is purely Indian typology. “Here, Indian architecture and European architecture are fused together to create a new typology, which is exclusively Goan — more beautiful than both Indian and European architecture…Our Loutolim house has got more architectural merits than Portuguese houses in Portugal,” he says. 
 
 Sadhale began experimenting with various ancient typologies of architecture, incorporating different elements into his many conservation projects across the state, including in the Ram temple at Khadki in Sattari, and the Mallikarjun temple at Sristhal, Canacona. Sadhale’s latest conservation project has been the recently completed Shree Ballikarin temple at Fatorpa.
 
 “The temple has been built without the use of cement, using only lime as the bonding material. Built entirely in exposed laterite masonry, with a gajaprashta (a circular form in the posterior), the temple is one of its kind in Goa,” he says. 
 
 Looking back, Sadhale says, “It was one comment about loss of ancient Indian architecture that set me on my journey towards becoming a temple architect. Now, if you want me to construct any type of temple architecture, I can get the temple built, in whatever medium and in that intricate old style.” 
 
 Sadhale sourced artisans of Goan origin, who had migrated to neighbouring towns of Karnataka, for sculpting images in stone and wood for the Shree Mallikarjun temple at Sristhal. “Significantly, the temple conservation works resulted in conservation of ancient craftsmanship and artisanry. I rebuilt Goan heritage from scratch,” Sadhale says, with that unmissable glint in his eyes.
 
 His love for nature, concern for environment, passion for conservation, and his profession of creating building spaces, led him to invent creative solutions for urban planning. 
 
 While he has formulated his own “urban farming” concept that has got the approval of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), Sadhale says he implemented the “green building technology” in his Khadpaband home in Ponda, 25 years ago, when the technique was yet to appear on Indian landscape. 
 
 With a view to proving that conservation and development can go together, Sadhale has identified technologies that can do away with sand and cement as construction material. He, however, laments that neither the government nor corporate bodies are interested in cost-effective methods of conservation. 
 
 “We have got the science and the know how in rebuilding heritage. But do we have the takers?” Sadhale asks. The question hangs in the air. 
 
 
