PUNE: At 22,   may still be counted among the 'boys', but his game in the middle makes him 'man' enough to shoulder big responsibilities.

 On Tuesday, when the Kerala batsman hit his maiden T20 century against Rising Pune Supergiant at the   in Gahunje, he showed how mature thinking is crucial even when everything is going right and why it is important to slow down no matter how well you are hitting the ball.
 
 Samson scored a 63-ball 102 in Delhi's first win over Pune. He showed immense patience to reach his 50 when his team were two-wicket down. He took 41 balls to reach half-century, but once the team looked stable, he switched gears to get the next 52 only in 22 balls.
 
 "We need to change our batting style according to the match situation. I have been playing   for some time and I have learnt from my experiences in the past. Sometimes you need to slow down and make partnerships. It was very important to drag on to the innings and keep scoring runs at that point of time," Samson said about his innings after the match.
 
 His first 50 didn't have even a single six, while the later half was jaded with five big hits over the fence. "I was playing with   and he is a very good hitter of the ball. The leg-spinners were bowling and he was hitting it hard from the middle of the bat. I thought I can't do everything myself, and since Rishabh was helping me by scoring runs, I thought of just rotating the strike," he added.
 
 He looked pleased with his performance, especially after scoring only 13 runs in his first game.
 
 "Today is one of the best days of my life. It is every cricketer's dream to play for the country. The Indian team is the best in the world, so if you have to get into it, you have to be something special, you have to do something special. I am happy that I played this one innings, but there is a long way to go," the 22-year-old said.
 
 Though chasing a 200-plus score was not going to be easy, Samson said, his team relaxed only after   got out in the 12th over.
 
 "You never know anything in cricket, as it is a funny game. Moreover, it was a good track to bat on. Once they were four down, we thought we were in command, but Dhoni bhai was still there and you never know what he can do. So only after he got out, we thought were in good control," he said.
 
 Off late, Samson has been through tough times. He was injured and later had issues with the  , who alleged him of being 'unprofessional'. But the wicket-keeper batsman doesn't get deterred by obstacles.
 
 "You need to have bad times to learn things about life. You won't learn if you keep on getting success. Mistakes only help you become better than before. My past has helped me become a better cricketer and a human being and because of that my present is good."
 
 He credited Delhi coach   in shaping his career. "Rahul sir has been supporting me since past two-three years. He says encouraging words before the practice and the match which are inspiring. I thank him and Delhi Daredevils for having faith in me."
 
 
