NEW DELHI: At month end, with   requiring an infusion of funds, the announcement permitting withdrawal of enhanced amounts from ATMs should have the cheered people. But there was a sense of déjà vu at the money dispensing machines on Tuesday. In a scene reminiscent of mid-November,Balbir Singh stood at SBI’s two ATMs near the reception at AIIMS, exasperated to find both without cash. “What is the point of raising limits when the machines can’t even dispense the currently allowed amounts?” said the 46-year-old relative of a patient at AIIMS. 

 A little distance away at Ber Sarai, near the old JNU campus, only two of four ATMs were functioning. Jitender Chauhan, a student, wasn’t too fazed though, saying that the cash situation had more or less normalised, and the depletion was because it was “the time to pay rents and dues”. It was a similar story near the Uphaar Cinema complex with HDFC, ICICI, SBI, Syndicate and Corporation Bank ATMs running out of cash around 1 pm. The normal banking activities in these branches, though, were being carried out as usual.
 
 “The cash van can come any time after 2pm. Maybe it is because it’s salary day that there is   anywhere around,” conjectured Manoj Kumar, the security guard at HDFC’s Green Park Extension branch. Rakesh Kumar, his counterpart at the HDFC Bank at Uphaar Cinema, conceded that cash had run out by 10 am, but said that the banks had no shortage of money. “If only the distribution agencies could be more efficient!” he shrugged. 
 
 Misery levels, however, were not as high as in the initial months of demonetisation despite the non-functioning ATMs. SBI ATMs at metro stations particularly disappointed consumers. Shivjee, a Farrukhabad resident visiting Delhi, said, “I tried withdrawing money at two SBI ATMs at Central Secretariat station but both didn’t have cash.” 
 
 The situation was no better elsewhere on Tuesday. More than 60% of the ATMs that TOI visited in east Delhi were running dry. “I frequently use this  , but getting money depends on pure luck,” said Deepak Kumar, 20, at Shakarpur. 
 
 Of the three SBI ATMs on Vikas Marg in Laxmi Nagar, only one was spewing out money. Outlets of IndusInd, Axis, Kotak Mahindra and IDBI banks had no cash or were ‘out of service’ there. “It is not only the private banks that don’t have money. Even government banks are giving us similar service,” said an annoyed Sharad Kumar, 53, outside an SBI ATM near the   metro station.
 
 Some money machines, such as those of Oriental, Axis and Bandhan banks in Preet Vihar, reported glitches. “I am unable to withdraw money here due to a technical problem, while the nearby ATMs don’t have cash,” grumbled Vikas Vimal, 25, who was trying his luck at   near Defence Enclave.
 
 
