Chandrapur: A tiger killed a third human in Shivni range in buffer zone of Tadoba Andhari Tiger Reserve on Wednesday. Victim Mandabai Dandekar (60) was attacked in the fields on the outskirts of village Mohadi early in the morning while she was answering nature’s call. All three human kills have occured within 12-15 sq km in the last 20 days.

 RFO, Shivni range, SR Langde said the tiger killed the woman and dragged her body around 100 meters away into the thicket. When the victim did not return home till late in the morning, her kin started searching and discovered her body. Deputy Director, TATR (buffer) Gajendra Narvane and ACF RN Patil visited the spot. Langde said they have given ex gratia aid of Rs20,000 to kin of the victim woman.
 
 A tiger had killed earlier two victims in fields of Chak Bamni and compartment no. 233. Locals claimed it is an old tiger, which is incapable of hunting, and hence killing humans. Another incident of tiger mauling one Kavita Kokode in adjacent village Wakal, only 4km from Mohadi, in neighbouring Shidewahi range on Tuesday have fuelled rumours of man-eater tiger in the area.
 
 Narvane claimed the incidents at Chak Bamni and compartment no. 233 are not connected. “We have photographs of the tiger at Chak Bamni. Cameras traps are being installed at Mohadi to identify the tiger. If the two tigers are same, we will take measures to capture the problem tiger,” he said. He maintained that PCCF is being informed about the situation so permission can be sought to tranquillize the problem tiger. 
 
 Admn to offer protection
 
 Anticipating more attacks from tiger in coming days on people going out to answer natures call in open, TATR administration has decided to offer protection to the those going for open defection in problem area. Deputy director, Narwane explained that thick Lakhodi and Tur crops are standing in fields and tigers trail behind the herbivores intruding these farms. Thus, those going for defection in open in the fields and those working in farms are prone to tiger attacks. Incidents of human kill at Chak Bamni and Mohadi, and mauling of woman at Wakal, substantiates the theory. Hence we have decided to offer protection to villagers going to fields for defection and also for the work, he said. 
 
 Nawane held a meeting with villagers in 10 villages in problem area on Wednesday. We are going to fence around 4-5 hectares of area with solar fence in the fields for open defection. Villagers without individual toilets can use this protected (fenced) area for defection, until their toilets are built under Jan-Van scheme," he informed. Narwane claimed to have formed vigilance teams comprising villagers and forest department staffers in each of 10 villages. These teams will petrol around the respective villages and fields for four hours in morning and evening making din and bursting crackers to scare away any prowling predator in the area, he told. 
 
 PhotoTiger killed Mandabai Dandekar while she was out answering natures call in open
 
 FileHuman Kill-1/2 
 
 
