INDORE: Officials of district administration   on Friday rescued as many as 39 child labourers from eight unauthorised bag manufacturing units in Moti Tabela area.

 “On a specific tip off, we carried out a recce at 12 places for a couple of weeks before lodging a complaint with district administration officials concerned about minors working in bag manufacturing units here” said Pankaj Sanwale, city coordinator, Childline.
 
 Following this, officials of the woman and child development department (WCDD) and local police launched a raid.
 
 “Out of 12 places, we rescued as many as 39 child labourers and 55 labourers above the age of 14 years,” said SDM Shalini   who led the drive. She added that the units were operating out of residential buildings without any requisite permission.
 
 “The labourers were kept in small rooms while the working areas were also unhygienic and dangerous to work in. They also had a few warm clothes to keep the winter chill away” Shrivastava added.
 
 The rescued labourers were brought to the administration’s campus for a health checkup and counseling. The department also took down their statements for further action.
 
 “The owner of the bag manufacturing units used to pay Rs 150 a week for 15 hours of work in a day. He used to give us vegetables and chapati in the morning and rice and pulses in the evenings. We ot no weekly offs,” said one of the rescued children.
 
 The officials added that 33 child labourers are from Motihari and Champaran, Bihar. The rescued children have been given a temporary stay at the WCDD’s shelter homes ‘Shraddhanand Ashram’ and ‘Sagar Samajik Sanstha’.
 
 “District collector P   is very sensitive about such cases and has asked us to take prompt action on receiving any such info on  . The administration will continue its drive,” Shrivastava said.
 
 A case under Child Labour (Prohibition and Regulation) Act, 1986 and Minimum Wages Act, 1948 was registered in the matter. The department was preparing a list of the units’ owners to further summon them in the case.
 
