HYDERABAD: With stars in his eyes,   is all set to take on the best in the   world at the   to be held at the Royal Varuna   near Pattaya, Thailand. The 15-year-old Telangana sailor will compete against 280 sailors from 62 countries in a bid to sail away with the top honours.
 
 The World Championship is the highest order of sailing in which a young sailor can aspire to participate in and Durga Prasad, who hails from a very poor family, is all charged up to measure his skills against the best in the world.
  
 "This is a record-breaker in terms of the number of sailors competing here and the number of countries represented. This year is notable also for the number of Asian countries taking place after several years of absence. They include China, Macau, Taiwan (officially called Chinese Taipei), Myanmar, Indonesia, India and the UAE. Several teams will also travel from the South American continent, including Argentina, Brazil, Peru, Ecuador, Uruguay and Chile," Thomas Whitcraft, President of the Optimist World Championship 2017, had said earlier.
  
 Prasad has been honing his skills at the Yacht Club of Hyderabad, which has over the years produced many National champions in the Laser and Optimist Class. After a gap of more than 24 years, a sailor from Hyderabad is attending a World Championship and it is a proud moment for the entire state.
  
 "It is fantastic to be representing India at the World Championships and I will put foot forward for my country. My coach (Suheim Sheikh) and the Tricolour at the   are my inspiration," said an excited Prasad.
  
 Prasad is being assisted by a professional Swiss Coach who has been in the city to coach the state sailors for a few days for the forthcoming  .
  
 "Durga has been through a tough regimen of strength and endurance training for many hours on the water and is surely a stronger and more agile sailor since his last international. I wish him all the best", said Suheim, who is not only a coach but also President of the Yacht Club of Hyderabad where Prasad trains.
  
 Prasad will return on July 22 just in time for the Telangana State Regatta which will be followed by the coveted Monsoon Regatta Trophy. 
 
