KOZHIKODE:   budget for the financial year 2017-2018 focuses on women security, infrastructure development and social welfare. The Rs 12.12 crore surplus budget—presented by deputy   Meera Darshak at   on Thursday— shows an estimated revenue of Rs 398 crore and expenditure of Rs 385.87 crore. It announces new schemes in various sectors.

 Presenting the budget, the deputy mayor said that the revised property tax is expected to generate more income. It proposes to generate Rs 32.05 crore revenue form the property tax ; Rs 16 crore from professional tax; Rs 10 crore from building and land rent; Rs 1 crore from advertisements tax; Rs 2 crore from D&O license and Rs 9 crore from entertainment tax.
 
 Darshak said that the corporation-level consultative committee’s opinion would be sought to tie-up all the loose ends over the collection of taxes. She added that a ‘file adalat’ would be conducted on April 17 to dispose of the pending files in the corporation. The   also proposes to install digital boards, displaying the services provided by each department.
 
 In the women security and social welfare sectors, the budget plans to set up ‘She’ lodges for women. The deputy mayor said considering the growing number of women thronging to the city for various purposes, the civic body aims at executing more projects for women. “We have decided to set up ‘She’ lodges run by women. The first one will be set up on corporation land near the Kozhikode railway station and a sum of Rs 50 lakh has been earmarked in the budget for this purpose,” she said.
 
 The budget also plans to set up breastfeeding centres at all the bus stands and corporation office. Micro-emerging fund will be disbursed to set up mobile food courts and to impart skill development courses to women. To execute projects for the destitute, Rs 42 lakh has been set aside.
 
 Infrastructural development also got an extra push in the budget, with the highest allocation of Rs 64.65 crore. The fund has been set aside to take up road repair and renovation works, JBIC works and maintenance of grant projects, construction of roads in the merged wards, and ward funds for the 75 wards for the road works.
 
 The budget also proposed to set up burial ground for dead animals. Mini-commercial centre and bachelors quarters will be set up at Vellayil. A new athletic stadium will be set up at Puthiyangadi acquiring port land. Existing Elathur A C Shanmuga Das ground and Beypore maiden will be developed as mini -stadiums.
 
 A sum of Rs 60 lakh has been set aside to set up a permanent exhibition ground at Varakkal. It also proposed to set up new community halls at Pooladikunnu, Chevarambalam and Puthiyandi. Mudalakulam ground will be developed for organizing cultural programmes. The budget proposes to submit a proposal to the government to execute comprehensive tourism project at Elathur jetty.
 
 In the health sector, budget has earmarked a sum of Rs 1 crore for a health complex at West hill. The centre will be provide ayurveda, allopathy and homeopathy treatments, converting it as senior citizen-friendly centre. A library and garden will be set up at the centre.
 
 
