NEW DELHI: If you are still left with scrapped Rs 1,000 and Rs 500 notes, having failed to deposit them in banks by the December 30 deadline, you could hold on to them till July-end.

 The   said on Tuesday it would decide in July whether the government should be asked to 
  for those who could not deposit the scrapped notes in time due to genuine reasons or because of PM Narendra Modi’s promise in his November 8 speech for a window beyond December 30.
 
 The Centre, through attorney general  , struck a defiant chord and said there was no obligation under the ordinance to give any further chance to citizens to deposit scrapped currency notes.
 
 The ordinance makes it a crime to possess scrapped notes.
 
 With over a dozen petitioners narrating different reasons for their inability to deposit scrapped currency notes before December 30, their counsel complained to the court that the Centre had filed a general affidavit without responding to the peculiar facts of individual cases. 
 
 Rohatgi said the government’s stand was that there would be no further opportunity to deposit scrapped currency notes.
 
 The Centre’s affidavit had referred to an individual’s case in which the petitioner had sought permission to deposit Rs 66.80 lakh in scrapped notes and said the petitioner failed to deposit the money as his bank account was not KYC-compliant.
 
 Refusing to be drawn into individual attempts to get relief from the agony of watching wads of currency notes turning into waste paper, a bench of Chief Justice   and Justices D Y   and   said, “Our decision will be whether there will be another window or not. If yes, then all of them will get the benefit.”
 
 Rohatgi said, “Even if the Supreme Court decides to open a limited window for remonetisation of scrapped currency notes, it has to be left to the government to ascertain the genuineness of the reason for failure to adhere to the December 30 deadline.”
 
 The SC, while entertaining petitions seeking a window, had weeded out many petitions on its own, terming their claims about difficulty in meeting the December 30 deadline as “pure cock and bull story”.
 
 In its affidavit filed through advocate R Balasubramanian, the Centre said “Operation Clean Money”, initiated by the I-T department to verify cash deposits made between November 11 and December 30, had led to the “identification of approximately 18 lakh people for online scrutiny as they appeared to be not in line with taxpayers’ profile. 
 
 At present, more than 12 lakh responses from 8.38 lakh distinct PANs/persons have been received”. It informed the SC that “more than 3.78 lakh, out of approximately 18 lakh, highrisk cases have been detected and have been taken up for assessment and investigation”.
 
 “More than Rs 610 crore in cash (Rs 513 crore in scrapped currency and Rs 110 crore in new currency) was seized by the I-T department and other government agencies,” it said.
 
 
 
 
 
 
