Trichy: Colourful cultural programmes of school students and presentation of awards for distinguished services to government officials in district administration, Trichy corporation, railways, airport, BHEL and several other places marked the 68th Republic Day celebrations in Trichy on Thursday. 

 District collector Dr KS Palanisamy hoisted the national flag setting off the celebrations in the Armed Reserve Police ground in the city in the morning amidst a drizzle. Prior to that, he paid tributes at the World War I memorial opposite Gandhi Market in the city. The collector accepted the guard of honour from the police force. Central zone inspector general of police V Varadharaju, city commissioner of police A Arun, superintendent of police T Senthilkumar and other top officials were present. 
 
 The district administration honoured 63 policemen with medals and certificates for their meritorious service and rewarded 121 employees in all the departments for their regular duty and best service during the 2016 assembly elections. The venue turned colourful when 700 students from various schools staged a cultural programme there. The collector appreciated the students and gave away certificates and mementos to them. 
 
 Trichy corporation commissioner N Ravichandran hoisted the national flag on the corporation office campus as the elected term of the mayor was over in October 2016. He presented certificates and Rs 2,000 each as mementos to 24 employees who had completed 25 years of service in the corporation. 
 
 Airport director K Gunasekaran unfurled the national flag at the Trichy international airport campus. He said that Trichy had become the top profit-making airport in Tamil Nadu after Chennai. Divisional Railway Manager, Trichy division, AK Agarwal, unfurled the national flag and accepted the guard of honour by Railway Protection Force at Kallukuzhi railway ground in the city. Additional divisional railway manager HM Sharma, divisional security commissioner C Soma Shekar other senior railway officers and staff of Trichy division, their families and members of the public attended the function. The parade was followed by a brief cultural programme.
 
 DRM Agarwal read out the message of Southern Railway general manager on the achievements made. “On the operation front, a record number of 42 M/E trains have been speeded up this year and 8 M/E trains upgraded into superfast express trains. We introduced three weekly trains (Kochuveli-Indore, Hatia-Ernakulam and Kamakya-Bangalore). Inspite of several constraints, we were able to maintain overall punctuality of 88 %.” he said. 
 
 BHEL Trichy also celebrated R-day with the executive director of Power Plant Piping Centre Thirumayam and Piping Centre Chennai R Rajamanohar hoisting the national flag and taking the salute at the parade held at Jawaharlal Nehru stadium in BHEL’s Kailasapuram Township. He said that BHEL was also gearing up to supply specialised equipment needed for existing coal-based power plants to meet the more stringent revised emission norms and had begun diversification into nuclear and defence. 
 
 Pageantry by students of BHEL Tamil medium middle school and the Boiler plant nursery and primary school besides a light music concert at the community centre in the evening were other highlights of the Republic Day celebrations.
 
 
