PANAJI: The floating dry dock at Western India Shipyard Limited ( ), Mormugao, has begun to tilt precariously and take in water, prompting the authorities to place oil booms around the structure. 

 Though the impact of an oil spill would be largely limited, Mormugao Port Trust (MPT) is concerned that the situation could deteriorate under heavy rainfall and rough seas.
 
 “As a precautionary measure oil booms have been placed around the floating dry dock. The oil dispersant unit is also here. The   has been alerted,” MPT chairman I Jeyakumar told TOI.
 
 The dry dock, used to lift ships from the water to the yard for repairs, is located inside WISL. A generator with around 100-150 litres of diesel is said to be on board the 60,000 dead weight tonne (DWT) floating dry dock. DWT is a measure of how much mass a ship is carrying or can safely carry. It does not include the vessel’s weight.
 
 Last monsoon, passenger vessel MV Qing took in water and grounded itself on the floorbed at the WISL repair berth. Taken over by   Shipyard Limited, WISL has been defunct and has failed to prevent the catastrophe.
 
 MPT has expressed its inability to compel WISL to refloat MV Qing as the shipyard’s promoters have turned unresponsive. MPT has filed an FIR at the Vasco police station and also appealed to the   and high court of Bombay at Goa for relief.
 
 “I have written to the collector two weeks ago. The high court is hearing the case and the judge has even tried to auction the vessel twice but it has failed. We cannot forcibly enter the shipyard,” Jeyakumar said.
 
 Last year, 350-odd WISL workers launched an agitation and prevented MPT and state government officials from undertaking salvage operations.
 
 Jeyakumar said that more than the floating dry dock, the grounded MV Qing posed a bigger danger. “There is a huge quantity of oil mixed with water on MV Qing. It has to be removed. We are struggling to convince the ABG Group. This is a complex issue,” Jeyakumar said.
 
 “The WISL is in a crisis due to which it has not been maintaining the dry dock. We have been writing to it, asking that the dry dock be maintained to save it from sinking,” he said.
 
 
