NEW DELHI: India’s economy is estimated to grow by 7.1% in 2016-17, slower than the previous year’s 7.6%. The estimates released by   ( ) on Friday do not take into account the impact of  , which is likely to pare GDP growth further.

 The CSO has released the GDP growth projection nearly a month ahead of its usual schedule because of the advancement in the date of budget presentation to February 1. “We don’t need to speculate. It (the growth estimate) is on actual outcome-based data. We have not taken bank deposits and credit data for the month of November due to volatility because of major policy change,” chief statistician T C A Anant said when asked why the note ban had not been factored into the growth projection.
 
 Economists said growth estimates could be lowered once the impact of demonetisation is clear. “Once the data is available post-November it could wield downward pressure on the GDP growth rates,” says Madan Sabnavis, chief economist at  , which has projected the GDP growth for 2016-17 to be 6.7%-6.8%.
 
 Experts said that sectors such as construction, along with real estate and cement, and consumer goods are likely to witness double-digit decline in sales in the third quarter (October-December 2016), hurting overall economic growth.
 
 The sector-wise breakdown of CSO’s GDP estimates, however, showed a rebound in agriculture.
 
 The farm sector is estimated to grow by 4.1%, faster than the previous year’s 1.2% expansion. Robust monsoon rains have boosted crop prospects and are expected to have a positive impact on rural incomes.
 
 
 
 Our assessment of 6.7% GDP growth, with a downward bias, is based on the premise that the liquidity shock has led to a drastic consumer spending shock. This typically means, even as RBI has replaced around 44% of the demonetised currency, the money is not coming back decisively into the system as people are averse to spending,”  , group chief economic adviser at   said in a note.
 
  too had, last month, lowered its GDP growth estimates for the current fiscal year to 7.1% from 7.6%. The government had scrapped Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 notes on November 8. Policymakers expect the impact of the note ban to be temporary and have said that growth will rebound in the quarters ahead.
 
 The manufacturing sector is estimated to grow by 7.4% in 2016-17, slower than the previous year’s 9.3%. Growth in the services sector, which accounts for about 60% of the economy, is expected to moderate to 8.5% compared to 8.9% growth in 2015-16.
 
 Policymakers said they would like to wait for more data and not go by anecdotal evidence of the impact of demonetisation. “Being a statistical organisation, CSO has to go on real statistics and we cannot expect them to go on the basis of impressions and anecdotal evidence,” economic affairs secretary   told reporters on Friday.
 
 “The economic survey and the budget will spell out what approach the government will take, so I would not like to pre-judge and I cannot comment on that,” he said, adding that tax revenues are expected to exceed budget estimates in the current fiscal year.
 
