KOLKATA: Three of the   that voted for new municipalities on Sunday witnessed  , with the Left Front, Congress and BJP demanding cancellation of elections in these three municipalities, even withdrawing their candidates in Raiganj and Domkal.

 Trinamool chief and   will call on Congress president Sonia Gandhi in Delhi on Tuesday, reportedly to find common ground on a united non-BJP candidate for the presidential polls, but the Delhi entente has evidently failed to end the bitter rivalry at the ground level.
 
 Violence was reported from all the three plains towns that went to vote -Pujali in the south (South 24-Parganas), Domkal in the middle (Murshidabad) and Raiganj in the north (North Dinajpur) -though the four Hills towns that voted for new civic agencies (Darjeeling, Kalimpong, Kurseong and Mirik) were peaceful.
 
  petitioned PM Na rendra Modi against alleged rigging of local polls. He wrote to Modi and home minister Rajnath Singh. The state election commission refused to either confirm or deny reports of large-scale violence. The elections were fair and peaceful, maintained TMC. Marauding bike-borne miscreants, bombs, broken EVMs and panicked voters remained the recurring sights throughout the day in Pujali, Domkal and Raiganj. Election officials cowered in fear and fled polling booths at some places. Police, responding to violence reports, themselves became targets as bombs and stones were hurled to intimidate opposition workers. The CongressCPM together tried to match the Trinamool firepower in Domkal but, at both Raiganj and Pujali, it was an unequal battle.
 
 Congress set off the candidate-withdrawal process in Raiganj, followed by the Left Front and BJP. Same was the case in Domkal. State Congress president Adhir Chowdhury even shot off a letter to his party chairperson on Sunday evening, saying, "It is important to rope in support of all political parties to oppose a BJP-RSS nominee at the national level (for the Presidential polls). At the same time it is necessary to emphasize on our abiding commitment to transparency and democracy. Under your leadership and guidance, state Congress workers will continue to fight for democracy and secularism and oppose both Trinamool and state BJP."
 
 In Kolkata, the LF and Congress supporters resorted to a road-block and sit-in-demonstration in front of the election commission's office, claiming it had failed to conduct free and fair elections. State election commissioner AK Singh's refusal to accept their deputation also prompted Congress to lodge an FIR against him.Congress also indicated they were exploring legal options against the state commission.
 
 "We want the elections to be countermanded as the rul ing party has unleashed terror at all the places where elections are being held,“ CPM state secretary Surjya Kanta Mishra said. Chowdhury demanded countermanding of the elections alleging boothcapturing by Trinamool supporters. BJP national secretary and former state chief Rahul Sinha also demanded that fresh polls be declared. “The commission should cancel today's elections and fresh polls should be held with central forces in charge of security," Sinha said.
 
 
 
 
 In a dramatic escalation of hostility between state Congress chief Adhir Chowdhury and Trinamool Congress chief Mamata Banerjee, the former has petitioned Prime Minister Narendra Modi against alleged rigging of local elections.
 
 On a day the Bengal opposition blamed Trinamool for violence and irregularities in  , Chowdhury wrote to Modi and home minister Rajnath Singh seeking their protection. He also shot off a letter to Congress chief Sonia Gandhi and cautioned her that party workers were facing state repression in the form of false criminal cases and police violence. Chowdhury has detailed alleged irregularities while suggesting that the poll process had been reduced to mockery. It suggests that the state unit is at the end of its tether and is willing to resort to dramatic measures for self preservation.
 
 The protest from Bengal Congress comes just a day ahead of Banerjee's Delhi visit for talks with Sonia on Presidential elections.
 
 Banerjee has become a key protagonist in the opposition initiative to find a joint candidate to challenge the BJP nominee who is likely to win.
 
