SHIMLA/DHARAMSHALA: It's April and large parts of   on Thursday saw cold conditions with the   staying close to   owing to widespread snowfall in higher reaches, weather officials said. Rains, accompanied by thunder and strong winds, continued to lash the state for second day, disrupting normal life. 

 A government spokesperson said traffic on the national highway (NH-5) has been disrupted at several points in Kinnaur district owing to landslides triggered by the rain and snow. Hailstorm lashed Shimla and Kangra valley around noon, damaging fruit and standing crop in the fields of Palampur, Dharamshala, Khaniyara and other places located at the foothills of the Dhauladars. With the sky overcast with dark clouds, darkness descended early in the hilly areas. In Dharamshala, it turned dark around 4pm, almost like 7 in the evening on any given day at this time of the year.
 
 According to a Met department official here, hills overlooking Manali and Shimla experienced moderate spells of snowfall -- significant for the season. The condition will continue till Friday. "High-altitude areas of Lahaul and Spiti, Chamba, Mandi, Kullu, Kinnaur and Shimla districts have experienced moderate to heavy snow," the official said.
 
 Shimla meteorological centre director Manmohan Sharma said that actual rainfall in the state on Thursday was 12.3 mm, against normal rainfall of 2.6 mm on Wednesday. He said Kalpa recorded 63.4 mm precipitation on Thursday, breaking the record of year 2002. 
 
 As farmers worried about their standing crops, tourists enjoyed the weather. "We often hear of bad weather, but in reality no weather is bad. It is all delightful, though in different ways. Some weather may be bad for farmers or crops, but for humans all kinds (of weather) are good," claimed Leena Bragwith, a visitor from Russia.
 
 Meanwhile, one person died of fall in Sundernagar subdivision of Mandi district while another person and 15 cattle were killed after lightning struck Dharjot village in Kangra district. 
 
 HP chief secretary V C Pharka said 18 kutcha houses and five cowsheds were also damaged in the incident. In Banjar subdivision of Kullu district, 15 kutcha houses were partially damaged due to storm. According to preliminary estimates, horticulture sector suffered a loss of Rs 1.84 lakh in  , he added.
 
 Roofs of two schools -- Government Primary School at Thati-Dhar in Kullu and Government High School at Sari in Banjar area -- were damaged due to high wind, suffering a loss of about of Rs 4 lakh. Two kutcha houses were damaged in Chamba and one concrete house in Jogindernagar in Mandi district.
 
 Keylong in Lahaul-Spiti district was the coldest in the state with a low of 1.6 degree centigrade. It saw eight centimetres of snow. The state capital Shimla, with the night temperature at 6.3 degrees Celsius, saw 52.7 mm rain. Popular destination Manali, which saw 50.4 mm rain, recorded a low of 3.6 degrees Celsius. Other picturesque tourist centre Kalpa in Kinnaur district, some 250 km from here, experienced 16 cm snow and 47.4 mm rainfall. It recorded minimum temperature at zero degree Celsius. The met office has forecast more snow and rain across the state due to active western disturbance till Friday.
 
 
 
 
 With heavy rains and hailstorm lashing several parts of Himachal Pradesh for two consecutive days, 
 
 Himachal Pradesh chief secretary V C Pharka on Thursday   and horticulture departments to assess the damage caused in all districts at the earliest. 
 
 While chairing the state level disaster management meeting here, Pharka directed these departments to ensure that their field staff personally monitors the situation.Additional chief secretary (revenue and disaster manager) Tarun Sridhar said funds have already been provided to deputy commissioners and other line departments for immediate use.
 
