CHENNAI: The much-awaited   for admissions to   in Tamil Nadu will commence at   on July 17. The state government has also begun preparations to ensure that the counselling process takes place online from next year, higher education minister   said on Thursday.

 At a press briefing at the Secretariat, the minister said counselling for vocational groups would take place on July 17 and 18. Counselling for seats in the differently abled category would be held on July 19.　
 
 Verification of sports quota certificates will take place on July 19 and 20, while counselling for sports quota seats will be held on July 21.
 
 Counselling for engineering seats in the general category will be held from July 23 to August 11.
 
 Registration for supplementary counselling for seats that have not been allotted will be held on August 16, while supplementary counselling will begin on August 17. Supplementary counselling for SCA to SC category will be on August 18.
 
 Anbalagan said that classes would most probably begin on September 1. The B Arch rank order will be published on August 10 and counselling will commence on August 19.
 
 “The state government has decided to make the engineering admission counselling process online from the 2018-19 academic year to avoid having vacant seats in good colleges and to increase the enrollment of students. The government has started making all technical preparations on this front,” he said. “Students can register for counselling and select their colleges online without having to come to Chennai,” he said, adding that the new system “will be transparent”.
 
 If students vacated engineering seats to go for medical or other courses, the seat would be allotted to the next student on the merit list automatically, he added.
 
 He said the dates for engineering counselling this year were postponed because of the delay in announcing NEET results, as there would be a large number of vacant seats after counselling, if students leave to join medical courses. “We received 1,41,077 applications,” he said.　
 
 The minister recalled that there was single-window counselling for engineering admissions in Tamil Nadu from 1997 to 2015 and there were 60 centres to distribute applications. “Since 2016, the application process has been taken online,” he said.　
 
