RAIPUR: Maoists on Thursday set ablaze a tractor and mixture machine engaged in road construction activities at Maoist hotbed in Narayanpur district. 

 Police said that nearly 50 armed Maoists barged in the area and torched the vehicles at construction site after threatening the contractors to stop the development work. The rebels then escaped into the forest. 
 
 Maoist on several occasions have opposed road construction and development work in the region and often torch vehicles. 
 
 Police said that the vehicles were engaged in road construction on   route nearby an under construction culvert over rivulet.
 
 The police was informed following which teams of police rushed to the spot and a search operation was launched in the region to nab the culprits. 
 
 Incidents of security personnel coming under Maoists' attack is also common with many such incidents recorded in the past and recently in Burkapal too, where 25 CRPF personnel deployed for security as Road Opening Party at an underconstruction road between   and Jagargunda, were killed.
 
  Maoist hideout busted: The   (BSF) on Thursday busted a Maoist hideout and recovered a huge cache of arms and banners from Kanker district. 
 
 Based on specific inputs, a team of the BSF's 35th battalion had launched an operation from its   camp in the interiors of an area under Siksod police station limits, police said.
 
 While cordoning off the targeted location near   village, around 11 kms from Sulangi, they spotted the Maoist hideout and recovered 10 SBML (single barrel muzzle loading) guns hidden inside the cavity of two separate trees.
 
 Some old paint containers, a brush, Maoist banners, writing material and a pamphlet were also recovered from the spot, the IG said.
 
 Prima facie, it seems that the weapons were dumped in the area 2-3 months back by Maoists, an official said.
 
 The seizure has been made at a time when the Naxals are opposing various developmental works, including construction of roads at various places, in the state. 
 
 
