NEW DELHI: The south and east Delhi corporations will declare their areas free of open defecation on Monday .But not many residents agree with the authorities. They claim the practice continues in their areas and is not confined to just railway tracks and JJ clusters; even pavements are used for open defecation.

 To meet the goal under the Swachh Bharat Mission, the civic bodies rushed to construct toilets but did not focus on the other side of the programme -sensitising the target group -said sources.
 
 "We have constructed enough toilets across all 104 wards of the corporation. From any spot in south Delhi, you will find at least one toilet within a 500-square-metre radius," said   mayor Kamaljeet Sehrawat. An official said Swachh Bharat guidelines re quire at least one community toilet in every 500-square-metre area. A toilet should also be available within 1km of an approved marketplace.
 
 Chetan Sharma of GK-II RWA said open defecation under flyovers and on roadsides had reduced but was yet to be eliminated. "The toilet complex at New Friends Colony has no water and has become unusable. The corporations are busy constructing toilets while failing to maintain the existing ones," said B M Bakshi of New Friends Colony RWA.
 
 East Delhi Corporation has deployed civil defence personnel to patrol specific areas from dawn to dusk to check open defecation.   has also construct ed a number of toilets and deployed mobile toilet vans to fulfil the Swachh guidelines. "Our officials have been pursuing the goal very sincerely. Besides building toilets, we have also focused on enforcing discipline among people to use toilets," said mayor  .
 
 Open defecation is most rampant in areas under the east corporation, which is home to a large number of migrant labourers and numerous JJ clusters. Several violators have been caught and challaned by officials in the past few months.
 
 "Now we will shift our focus to awareness and motivation," said Bhagat.
 
 South corporation mayor Sehrawat said, besides awareness,   will also focus on fines. "We will fine those found going out into the open," she said. The north corporation will declare its areas defecation-free on December 15.
 
 A senior SDMC official said schools, various RWAs and councillors have submitted certificates declaring their areas free of open defecation. These self-declarations will be verified by a team of Union urban development ministry next year.
 
