MANALI: Himachal Pradesh   to check the number of   seem to not have worked out. Even as dozens of   are fully occupied, many stray cattle are roaming freely on roads.   requires many reforms to work smoothly.

 Government had planned to insert microchips under the skin of cattle to keep record of them to prevent owners to abandon them on streets and roads. This was done on an experimental basis in Old Manali village two years back, but it could not be performed on regular basis. Sources said the experiment is a success as each micro-chip is still readable but high cost of chip, around Rs 150 to Rs 200, was the main hurdle.
 
 Stray cattle menace is more in Shimla, Kangra, Kullu and Mandi. The government had first introduced tagging cows’ years by button systems having unique identification number but shortly after that the buttons went missing. The cows were then tattooed with identification numbers but cut marks and injuries on ears made it difficult to identify. According to officials, almost all panchayats who coordinated with animal husbandry department have completed tagging process and the record was kept with the concerned panchayats.
 
 It was surprising that thousands of stray cattle, most of whom are taking shelter in gau sadans, had not been tagged ever. Few cows have holes in their ears but tag buttons are missing, while many cattle have lost their ears. There are few cases where people are abandoning cattle even after tagging. Recently, many such cows were discovered at gau sadan in Manali. The owners of the cattle were identified with help of tag numbers. They took the cows back after making excuse that the cattle had gone missing from meadows.
 
 According to 19th livestock census, their total population in Himachal is 48,44,431 of which 21,49,259 are cows and 7,16,016 are buffaloes. Himachal high court had directed state government to build gau-sadans everywhere to accommodate all the stray cattle. The government had then constituted a “Gauvansh Samvardhan Board”. Despite all these efforts, conventional methods of tagging are not working for government and straying of cattle is still continued.
 
 Animal husbandry department deputy director Dr R L Sandal said people were easily removing the button tags, so tattooing of ears was introduced. “Some heartless people cut the ear with tattoo off before abandoning the cow after it becomes unproductive. However, the experiment of micro-chips is successful. These chips are almost impossible to locate and remove. The project is under pipeline and is expected to come out very soon,” he said.
 
 
