Nagpur: In a setback to civic body’s Nag River plans, the state government has split the entire project into two parts. It has okayed the pollution abatement plan while keeping on hold the beautification or riverfront development plan. Union minister Nitin Gadkari will meet chief minister Devendra Fadnavis at Mumbai on July 25 along with mayor Nanda Jichkar, NMC ruling party leader Sandip Joshi, former mayor Pravin Datke and other office bearers and officials and discuss various developmental projects and also issues related to city. Nag River rejuvenation project and GST compensation are among the issues to be discussed in the meeting. An NMC official told TOI that proposals to approve Nag riverfront development plan and Pora river rejuvenation plan will also be tabled in the meeting. “State has approved pollution abatement project and also issued debt sustainability certificate. Detailed project report of riverfront development plan is yet to be prepared and hence has been kept on hold. First plan will ensure no raw sewage flows into the river while second to develop and beautify both banks of the river and adjacent areas, open spaces, gardens etc. Both plans must proceed simultaneously,” he said. The civic body had first prepared pollution abatement project of Rs 1,252.33 crore. Gadkari secured Central government approval for the plan in June 2016. It was also decided that loan will be taken from Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) for it. Gadkari then asked the NMC to also prepare riverfront development plan. Accordingly, the second plan was prepared at an estimated cost of Rs 1,373.60 crore. The two plans together were worth Rs 2,625.93 crore. The civic body was hoping entire project will be approved by JICA. NMC sources told TOI that some part of Nag river’s riverfront comes under Smart City Project. “River’s stretch in Pardi, Punapur, Bharatwada and Bhandewadi will be covered under the project. No decision has been taken about remaining stretch,” sources said. Datke told TOI that riverfront development project would be also taken up using JICA funds. “We will ensure approval from the Centre and state. Pollution abatement plan will be taken up as Phase-I and riverfront development as Phase-II,” he said. Datke added it would be a big achievement if Pora river rejuvenation project gets okay under the Centre’s Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT). “State wishes to give Rs 400 crore for Nag River pollution abatement project. The project will be further split. Therefore, we requested the state to approve Pora project too. Pili river is covered under Nag River project. Thus, pollution issue of all three rivers could be addressed,” he said.