Members of   (PAAS)   at the   Amit Shah to show their displeasure with the government’s inability to provide   in government jobs and educational institutions. The incident took place around 11.30 pm at Keshod town of Rajkot district when the convoy was on its way to Somnath temple. The group of 15 Patidar agitators was led by Keshod convenor of PAAS Bharat Ladani, who said such protests will continue across Saurashtra till the demands made by Patidars are met by the government.
 
 As many as 20 eggs were hurled at Shah’s convoy. “We consider Shah to be a bad egg and what better way to protest than throw eggs at him,” said Ladani, a farmer from Rajkot. Ladani and other members also shouted slogans, addressing Shah as General Dyre, the British Army officer who was held responsible for the Jallianwala Bagh massacre. The comparison was made first after several Patidars were lathi-charged during a massive rally held in Ahmedabad in 2015. As many as 14 Patidars were killed in the violence that erupted across Gujarat after the rally.
 
 Talking to Mirror, Patidar leader Hardik Patel said that his community was unhappy with   as he has ignored the problems faced by Patidars. “Shah has ignored the problems of the Patidars and martyrs from our communities,” Ladani said. “As we are never allowed to even get close to Shah’s meeting place, we decided to adopt this method of agitation so that the government listens to our demands,” Ladani added. Soon after the campaign for UP polls got over, Shah and his wife reached Somnath on Monday midnight. The couple offered the jalabhishek and participated in the Dhwaja puja and Mahapuja at the temple on Tuesday. This is not the first time that Shah has faced ire of the Patidar community.
 
 In September last year, Shah along with Gujarat CM Vijay Rupani and other party leaders were booed off stage in Surat as PAAS members created ruckus and vandalised furniture at a programme to felicitate Patel leaders. The community members from the locality also hurled stones at the police. The function, which was meant to be a show of strength of BJP in the Patidar stronghold, was wound up soon after it started as Shah could speak for hardly four minutes amid sloganeering. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to visit Somnath temple today morning. Veteran BJP leader LK Advani and former Gujarat CM Keshubhai Patel are also expected to visit the temple today.
 
 
