BHOPAL: After following suit on the meat ban by Uttar Pradesh chief minister  , the   government has again taken a leaf out of Yogi’s reforms and slashed the number of school holidays to just 35 per academic year — this includes summer vacations.

 How the chopping of summer vacations will go down with parents at a time when it’s getting hotter every year remains to be seen. This year, in fact, the administration had to order early summer vacations because of soaring temperatures.
 
 Minister of state for school education Deepak Joshi told TOI on Friday that the state government is contemplating scrapping school holidays on birth and death anniversaries of leaders. This comes three weeks after   Adityanath announced it in UP. Joshi said the MP government is working out a similar plan to nullify over 35 holidays in the MP academic calendar. Sources said that the school education department is preparing a plan to operationalise the idea on the orders of chief minister  .
 
 “We are in the talks stage and the school education department will soon announce the end of over 35 holidays. We are actually trying to bring it down to 25 days (for the entire year) but for a beginning, it would be limited to 35,” Joshi told TOI. He admitted that the decision is inspired by the UP chief minister. Instead of granting holidays, students can be taught in schools about the special occasions, Joshi said.
 
 “What UP has done is laudable and our decision is something which has been driven out of inspiration. We have come to a conclusion where everyone has supported that there is no need for such holidays any more,” the minister announced.
 
 Emphasising the need to keep schools open for “maximum days of the year”, Joshi pointed out that working days in MP schools now add up to 150 and need to be bumped up to 185. The education department is mulling increasing the number of classes.
 
 According to norms under Right to education Act 2009, schools must remain open for at least 220 days a year. The target is rarely achieved because of too many holidays in the state.
 
 The idea behind reducing holidays is to give students as well as teachers an opportunity to be inspired by the country’s great leaders, says Joshi, taking from Yogi. Instead of remaining closed on these days, schools will stay open to teach students all about the leaders to commemorate the specific day. “The government is likely to announce cancellation of 35 public holidays, marking birth or death anniversaries of eminent personalities after an upcoming cabinet meeting,” sources told TOI.
 
