BENGALURU: Tension gripped second pre-university (PU) exams on Monday when pictures of   appeared on WhatsApp. At 12.30pm, exactly two hours after the paper, the deputy commissioner of Raichur,   received information that the incident occurred in one of the centres of the district.

 Disguising himself as a flying-squad member,  , a part-time faculty member of   and   in Raichur, tried to leak the accountancy paper on Monday. 
 
 The department of pre-university education was alerted that a miscreant had clicked photos of only a part of the question paper before circulating it on WhatsApp. Goud, disguised as a member of the flying squad, entered the SRSVS PU College at 10.45am. Goud clicked a picture of a student’ s question paper during invigilation and sent the image via WhatsApp to Mahesh, principal of Kalinga PU College. At 11.30am, Mahesh sent the image to Sharana Basappa, the director of the same college. 
 
 Addressing the press on Monday evening, primary and secondary education minister   said, “The question paper had 18 pages, of which only one page was photographed. We have a confirmation that none of the students had received the message.”
 
 While Kalinga PU College has lost its recognition by the PU Department, the students currently pursuing their first PU there will be relocated to other PU Colleges, said Sait.
 
 Vijay Rao, chief superintendent of the examination center has been suspended and called for inquiry after allowing an imposter to enter the campus. "We have filed a case under sec 26 of the Karnataka Education Act, and sections 120 b, 170 and 72 of the IPC," added Sait.
 
 He further said that while the intention and motive behind the leak was still unclear, further investigation will look into the contacts they made and established over the last 4 days.
 
 Last year, the Chemistry question paper for the PU board exams was leaked twice, forcing the department to put in place a strict surveillance for this year’s exams.
 
 
 
 
 Speaking to TOI, C Shikha, director, PU department added, “All students enter the examination hall by 10.15 am and are not allowed to leave after that. Mobile phones are also not allowed inside the hall at any of the exam centers. Superintendent of police, R Chetan is also investigating the matter.”
 
 “Students need not pay heed to any rumours. This is an act of mischief and out of all pages on the question paper only one has been sent on the media platform.,” she added.
 
 The department has implemented Rs 1.48 crore project - Karnataka Secure Examination System (KSES) to ensure smooth and safe conduct of the PU Exam. Part of the system is a network of surveillance and emergency call-to-action in order to ensure that none of the question papers are leaked. Students on Monday also appeared for the Sociology examination which reportedly went on smoothly.
 
 
 
 
 In a circular sent out by the department of PU education shortly after panic struck with the accountancy paper, the department has said that if any incident further occurs in any exam center, the officials there will be held responsible.
 
 The circular reiterated that use of mobile phones has been banned across all centers and has also been communicated to all stakeholders before the commencement of the boards too.
 
 However, it further stated that hereon, students entering the exam center need to be checked thoroughly before allowing them inside. While the chief superintendent of the exam center will be carrying his/her mobile, all other exam officials have been barred from doing so.
 
 
 
 
 A student was caught impersonating his friend during Monday’s exam in a Davanagere center. Praveen Kumar MA, who was originally supposed to take the Accountancy exam was replaced by another student Shanmukha who was taking the exam on the former’s behalf. As invigilation authorities noted the malpractice, Praveen was debarred from writing any of the exams further.
 
 Five students from across the state writing the Sociology exam were debarred for malpractice on Monday. The students were from Belagavi, Vijayapura, Kalburgi and Davanagere.
 
