NEW DELHI/ GURGAON: Coming under criticism for allowing the felling of   and   without seeking permission, the   took a U-turn on Saturday. A top forest department official told TOI that the notification to exempt these two species happened “by mistake” and they have withdrawn the order. 

 “Now it’s a closed chapter,” said the official. The withdrawal came less than 24 hours after a formal notification was issued. 
 
 Currently, felling of seven types of trees including eucalyptus, poplar, bamboo, tut, amrood (guava) and mahanimb (ailanthus) don’t require any permission from the forest department. The names were listed in January 2013 to promote agro-forestry. An order issued by the principal conservator of forest on Friday said, “Now as per decision taken by Government of Haryana the trees of kikar and mesquite are also added to the list of exempted trees.” These two trees fall under forestry species and cutting them is an offence.
 
 Sources said soon after the office order was issued by forest department, it went viral among officials and environmental activists who felt the decision would cause severe damage to the Aravalis as it could be used denude the ecologically sensitive zone and the pave the road for real estate development.
 
 Former conservator of forest R P Balwan said, “None will believe that such a notification was issued by mistake and that too by officials who are very much aware of its impact. More than 90% of the   could be be felled without any permission from the forest department. The notification was simply aimed at serving the real estate lobby.”
 
 A forest official said Aravali hills in Haryana are largely covered by prosopis juliflora (mesquite) and it has helped in increasing the green cover in this dry region, though a section of experts have raised the issue of how the growth of “vilayati kikar” in this region is a menace. 
 
 “What we need to understand that mesquite is the natural and indigenous species of this region. Only these trees can survive in dry and no-moisture condition. Removing them will simply help the land owners to start construction activities. We must also remember that more than 90% of the land falling under Aravalis in Haryana has been privatised,” Balwan said.
 
