Actor  , who is facing a culpable homicide charge for the car crash in which model and TV anchor   Chauhan was killed, has been arrested, police said today. 

 Chatterjee, claimed police sources, had been "absconding" and trying to hide facts leading to his arrest. This was after police added the stringent culpable homicide not amounting to murder case against the actor for allegedly driving in a reckless manner leading to the death of model Sonika Singh Chauhan in the last week of April.
 
 Various forensic reports along with the mechanical report had suggested   was driving at a very high speed seconds before the accident.
 
 "Today at about 0015 hours on receipt of information about movement of Vikram Chatterjee, officers and force held raid and intercepted the accused in a cab just before Acropolis Mall on Rashbehari Avenue Connector. After following necessary procedure, he will be produced before court," said joint CP (crime) Vishal Garg. He however refused to ascertain why the arrest was carried out stating it was "part of investigation". This has led Vikram's friends to wonder if cops were trying to "divert attention from real issues" by carrying out this surprise arrest.
 
 The television and film actor was arrested after Kolkata Police personnel intercepted a cab outside Acropolis Mall on Rashbehari Avenue connector in south Kolkata midnight last night, a senior Kolkata Police officer said. 
 
 Chatterjee had earlier been charged with causing death due to rash and negligent driving. Sonika's family and friends, who were running asustained campaign to seek justice for the model, welcomed the police move. According to public prosecutor Sourin Ghosal, the court was presented with two reasons for seeking the stringent charge. First, the event data recorder recovered from Vikram's car showed that even 4.3 seconds before the crash he was driving at 105 km hr-2.5 times the maximum speed limit on Rashbehari Avenue. Secondly, there are eyewitness accounts that the actor had consumed alcohol.
 
 The actor was driving Sonika home after a party on April 29 when the accident took place. 
 
 
