NEW DELHI: Air India’s incharge of pilots, executive director (operations), has been grounded for allegedly skipping the mandatory pre-flight breath analyser (BA) test this January. 

 This test is conducted to ensure that only perfectly sober pilots get into cockpits. The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) directed AI late on Wednesday night to immediately ground (not put on flying duty) its ED (operations) who is also one of the airline's seniormost pilots, Captain A Kathpalia.
 
 Based on the DGCA order, AI issued instructions to comply with the same. While top AI officials confirmed the grounding, the airline did not give a comment. It also did not tell the period of grounding. The regulatory action came on the basis of a probe by the airline.
 
 AI had last Monday set up a panel to examine the complaint from a section of its pilots that the ED (operations) – who is overall incharge of pilots - flew by allegedly evading the mandatory pre-flight (BA) tests more than once. The complaint was made by the Indian Commercial Pilots’ Association (ICPA, union of erstwhile Indian Airlines pilots).
 
 “It has been brought to our notice that one of the executive director who’s a pilot has been evading pre-flight medical (PFM) …. Kindly investigate this gross violation by procuring the PFM record and all CCTV footage in despatch and PFM room at Delhi for the fortnight and take necessary action as deemed fit,” ICPA had written in a letter to DGCA chief B S Bhullar.
 
 Based on this, AI’s flight safety department formed a probe panel. “We have received intimation that a senior executive pilot has evaded pre-flight medical test in last 15 days at Delhi Airport. This information has already been submitted to DGCA and therefore it is required that this is investigated at the earliest… a committee of flight safety department officials is hereby constituted at Delhi to carry out investigation into the subject and submit report as soon as possible,” an order issued by Harpreet A De Singh, AI chief of flight safety department, said last Monday.
 
 The panel submitted its report based on which the senior pilot has now been grounded.
 
