Nagpur: “Politicians should have a retiring age. Just like any other government employee, an age should be set for netas to retire”, said Dr   at a function on National Voters’ Day at Vasantrao Deshpande Hall organized by the district administration. 

 Amte said there can’t be dichotomy between the working class and politicians. “Even a peon has to pass through strict selection process and retire at a certain age. Teachers retire at 60 but many politicians begin at 60.”
 
 He added that the government should bring in a rule for politicians to retire.
 
 With sportstars in attendance, Amte said, “In any sport, a player is not allowed after he is out. But in this game of politics, politicians get a chance to come back after getting out. An when they can’t fight for some reason, they bring their wives and relatives to retain power through them.”
 
 Speaking about voting rights to lepers, the head of Maharogi Sewa Samiti said, “Lepers too have the right to vote but they can’t exercise it because they don’t have fingers.”
 
 He said a big population of tribals doesn’t know about voting and government must offer some incentives like NSS and NCC. “These marks should be later counted in job selection for tribals.”
 
 The function also marked the conclusion of voters’ awareness drive being jointly conducted by Nagpur University and the district election office. Besides top government officials, cricketer Prashant Vaidya, plastic surgeon Sameer Jaghirdar, IAS topper Aman Mittal, entrepreneur Hassan Shafique, ace paddler Mallika Bhandarkar and face of the drive Arundhati Pantawne were present on the occasion.
 
 Principal secretary Ashwani Kumar, divisional commissioner Anoop Kumar and district collector Sachin Kurve too were present.
 
 The city’s youth icons stole the show with quirky one liners. Shafique said choosing a good leadership is our responsiblitiy. Kumar said if you don’t vote then your are harming democracy. “There are eight reasons why youths don’t go to vote,” he said.
 
 He said youths cite reasons like they will have to wait in long queue, they don’t have time, they don’t like any candidate, don’t believe in the system, or voting day is holiday.
 
 
