PUNE: Speaking of his friend of over four decades, an emotional Naseeruddin Shah shared, “If Om could have an epitaph for his grave, it could be his own dialogue from Jaane Bhi Do Yaaron, “Main itna kyun pi letaa hoon yaar (Why do I end up drinking so much)!” 

 Clearly, as memories of days spent together came flashing back, a sombre mood took hold of the Dadasaheb Phalke Pavilion at City Pride, Kothrud, one of the venues for the Pune International Film Festival 2017. 
 
 On Monday, the stage at the aptly named   Rangmanch hosted a mini retrospective on the late theatre and screen veteran Om Puri. Shah held the stage with Film and Television Institute of India (FTII) professor Anil Zankar, who was Puri’s junior in the   days.
 
 The conversation was peppered with anecdotes about Puri’s days as a struggling actor at the National School of Drama (NSD), Delhi, his innate ability as an actor, and discussions about some of his most memorable roles.
 
 Shah recounted the interview process Puri underwent before stepping into FTII. “I was in the second year at FTII when Om applied for the acting course. In those days, heroes in the film industry had to be the good-looking, like Dharmendra. Of course, Om would change that image later but, during the admission process, a person in the selection panel said that Om did not have the face for cinema. Fortunately, Girish Karnad was also there and he scolded the man for his views on what a conventional actor’s face should look like,” Shah recalled, to peals of laughter.
 
 An influx of trained actors in the 1970s helped shape Indian cinema in new ways, Zankar told the crowd. “All the actors at the time, including Om Puri, Naseeruddin Shah, Shabana Azmi, or Smita Patil, were trained in the art form. They learnt their trade either from NSD, FTII, or in theatre. This is why they brought in a new kind of cinema in the era,” Zankar said during the discussion.
 
 As for their personal equation, Shah fondly recalled their “often uneven, but lengthy” friendship that stretched for nearly 46 years. “Om envied me because I spoke better English than him whereas I envied him because he worked with Satyajit Ray and because of his voice. At times, there was a lot of friction in our relationship but there was no denying my love for him,” he said.
 
 At the tail end of the discussion, Shah’s emotions became quite evident as he remembered Puri’s last years. “I learnt hard work and steel from him but in the last few years of his life, he was in an unhappy emotional state. At one level, he has moved on.”
 
 
