Congress star campaigner   Gandhi Vadra will not campaign for the remaining two phases of   assembly polls. The Gandhi scion has decided to restrict her role to one of a backroom strategist, senior Congress leader and the party’s state in charge Ghulam Nabi Azad said on Tuesday.

 In a television interview in Varanasi, where he was campaigning for Congress nominees on Tuesday, Azad said Priyanka has her hands full with election management and will not have any time to campaign.
 
 Priyanka, credited with cobbling together the SP-Congress alliance in UP, has only made one fleeting appearance at a Rae Bareli rally this poll season. In her maiden appearance to campaign along with brother and Congress vice-president  , she had retorted to PM Narendra Modi’s ‘adopted son’ barb, saying UP’s own sons -- Raul and Akhilesh -- were enough to care for the state, and that an adopted son was not necessary.
 
 Traditionally, a star campaigner for mother Sonia Gandhi and brother Rahul and in their constituencies Amethi and Rae Bareli, this is the first time Priyanka’s campaign has been this limited. In 2014, Priyanka set up a Congress war room in Rae Bareli’s Buvemau guest house from where she monitored both Sonia’s and Rahul’s campaigns. She also led more than 10 high-voltage campaign rallies in the two districts, responding to former HRD minister Smriti Irani’s every barb rally after rally. That battle of barbs had ended in Priyanka famously dismissing Irani with a “Smriti, who?”, suggesting she was unwilling, any longer, to engage with her.
 
 In 2012, too, Priyanka had camped in Rae Bareli for many days, meeting with women members of the Rajiv Gandhi Mahila Vikas Pariyojana and appealing to them to vote for the Congress. This time though, the twin VIP constituencies are missing the action.
 
 Rahul, meanwhile, has held back-to-back rallies in UP since the formal announcement of an alliance between the Samajwadi Party and Congress, addressing as many as three rallies a day. Rahul has addressed a total of 43 rallies so far, six of which have been joint rallies with CM Akhilesh Yadav.
 
 Priyanka’s name on Congress’s staggered list of star campaigners had given rise to speculation that she would campaign beyond the Gandhi pocket boroughs of Amethi and Rae Bareli in the UP polls. Congress communications department chairman Randeep Surjewala, however, had later clarified Priyanka would restrict her campaign to the Gandhi bastions. Now,   over in both Amethi and Rae Bareli, Azad says Priyanka won’t campaign now. 
 
 
