HYDERABAD: Several industries are making a mockery of the environment and forest norms that make it mandatory to conduct environment impact assessments (EIA) by resorting to mere “cut and paste” jobs in their reports.

 Environment rights activists have lodged a complaint, with documentary evidence, with the central government on how several industries are simply using the available data and passing it off as their own EIA study to obtain pollution and environment clearances. In separate letters to the   (industry projects-2) of the Union ministry of environment, forests and climate change, former IAS officer and environment activist Dr EAS Sarma and senior scientist Dr   have alleged irregularities in the conduct of mandatory public hearings besides plagiarism in the EIA reports.
 
 “It is unfortunate that more than 20 years after the central government framed the guidelines, officials of pollution control boards have not been following the norms and are arbitrarily denying participation of genuine stakeholders in the public hearings while encouraging so-called environmental NGOs from outside the states to speak in favour of the firms,” said Babu Rao.
 
 They cited the example of new industrial units coming up in   district of Andhra Pradesh and said that a careful examination of the public hearing proceedings for projects in both AP and Telangana will reveal a few recurring names from   and Hyderabad districts in several EIA reports.
 
 “Plagiarism is universal in EIA reports. It is proof of failure of the appraisal system. I can show plagiarism in all the EIA reports that have been approved. I have read more than 100 EIA reports and do not find even one that is worth being considered as an EIA report,” he said.
 
 EAS Sarma, in his complaint, said it was “inappropriate” on the part of the environment ministry to permit such copy-and-paste fraud in respect of EIA reports. “It is all the more inappropriate for you to proceed further on the basis of the EAC recommendations based on such plagiarised EIA reports,” he said.
 
 Activists have lodged a complaint, on how several industries are simply using the available data and passing it off as their own EIA study to obtain pollution and environment clearances
 
