LUCKNOW: An alleged Lashkar-e-Taiba  , wanted by   in connection with spying and   was arrested in Mumbai late on Sunday night. Identified as Salim Mohammad Khan from Hathgaon block of Fatehpur district in Uttar Pradesh, he used to wire money to sleeper agents in the country from United Arab Emirates.

 Salim was netted following arrest of another terror operative Aftab Ali in May. A native of Faizabad district, Aftab was spying on military installations in northern parts of the country. Following a lookout notice, intelligence agencies deputed at Mumbai’s international airport apprehended him after Sunday midnight.
 
 During questioning, he told police that he received money from some people in Mumbai and was the key hawala operator who financially supported members of the sleeper cells through conduits. Salim also gave assignments to Aftab and told him where to meet other sleeper agents to pass on the sensitive information.
 
 While doing Salim’s background check, the anti-terror squad (ATS) of UP police found out that Salim had been involved in anti-national activities for more than a decade. IG (ATS) Asim Arun told TOI that Kausar Faroqui and Mohammad Sharif, the two terrorists facing trial for Rampur CRPF camp attack, had got arms training along with Salim at Muzaffarabad in Pakistan occupied Kashmir (PoK). Seven jawans and a civilian were killed in the attack on December 31, 2007.
 
 “He is a prized catch and we expect to extract a lot from him. Associated with the  , Salim has been laundering money through some businessmen in Maharashtra to fund terror operations,” said Arun. Having obtained a Pakistani passport, Salim settled down in UAE to avoid prying eyes of Indian security agencies. UP ATS will check if Salim was involved in any capacity with the Rampur attack besides adding his name as an accused in the FIR registered in May following Aftab’s arrest.
 
 A team of sleuths from UP were camping in Mumbai and along with Maharashtra police were trying to gather details of members of sleeper cells involved in unlawful activities who receive funds from Pakistan. 
 
 
