BELAGAVI: The arrest of   Anand Appugol, chairman of   Credit Society which has branches in   and neighbouring districts, is a big blow to the cooperative movement in the region.

 The district has nearly 5,000 cooperative credit societies, including branches, and caters to the financial needs of poor and middle class people. The sector completely banks on public faith and the Rayanna Society incident has hit the movement badly.
 
 After demonetization in November 2016, most cooperative credit societies in the district are facing a threat to their survival. The central government’s move badly affected loan recovery. Since the government restricted cash transactions, a large chunk of cooperative customers shifted to nationalized banks. Amid this, the arrest of Anand Appugol for cheating depositors for Rs 232 crore is a big blow.
 
 “Such incidents will have an adverse effect on transactions of cooperative credit societies by creating panic among customers. The Ashray Cooperative Credit Society, Belagavi had put hundreds of depositors to hardship in 2008 by investing money in real estate. However, people are smart and they realised which ones are reliable,” said Shyam Jadhav, chairman, Shri Riddhi Siddhi Multi-purpose  .
 
 According to Manohar Desai, chairman, Shri Mata Cooperative Credit Society, Belagavi, the fall of Rayanna Society is the result of crossing the Laxman rekha, violating norms like giving excess loan, collecting deposits assuring high and impractical interest rates, spending more money on advertisements, etc. Such financial institutions don’t live long. Every cooperative society must publish its balance-sheet in newspapers but not many follow this rule.
 
 Desai said the debacle of cooperative societies hurts the poor and middle class. There is a need to open fast-track courts to resolve such cases to provide speedy justice to depositors.
 
 Inquiry continued
 
 The interrogation of  , who has been in police custody for four days, continued at the head office of the Sangolli Rayanna Cooperative Credit Society for the second day on Thursday.
 
 RC Yakkundi, assistant director of cooperative audit, BS Mantur, assistant registrar of cooperative societies, conducted the probe in the presence of CCB police inspector BR Gaddekar. According to sources, officials found massive misuse of public deposits by the chairman and board of directors.
 
