AURANGABAD: The Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University (Bamu) has decided to take steps to ensure that the answersheets from all examination centres, spread over  , are collected on the day of the examination itself. 

 The two-day gap in collecting the answersheets from places outside the city limits was cited as one of the reasons for the post-exam paper writing scam. Aurangabad police on Wednesday raided a local   corporator's residence where the blank answersheets of a civil engineering exam paper held a day earlier were being written with answers taken from textbooks and other material. 
 
 A total of 33 people, including 27 students from second-year civil engineering of the Sai Institute of Engineering and Technology and teachers, were arrested. 
 
 Bamu vice-chancellor  , who was outstation even on Thursday, could not attend a crucial meeting of university authorities to discuss the scam and means to check such practices in future. 
 
 Briefing about key proceedings of the meeting, Bamu public relations officer Sanjay Shinde said it has been decided to collect answersheets from the examination centre on same day of the examination. TOI had reported on Wednesday that Bamu has only two vehicles to collect answersheets from four districts, resulting into time lag of more than two days. 
 
 “To begin with, answersheets from the examination centres located in city limits of Aurangabad are being collected on the same day. Gradually, all examination centres would be covered in the same manner once the logistics are in place,” he said.
 
 In the meantime, Bamu has ordered a high-level inquiry into the scam. The university has also announced that affiliation of Sai Institute of Engineering and Technology would be cancelled once its involvement in any wrongdoing is established. Chopde could not be reached for his comments. 
 
 In the meantime, different student unions have strongly reacted to the scam and demanded resignation of top university officials. 
 
 Sushil Rathod of Students Federation of India, said the scam has exposed alleged nexus between college authorities, politicians, students and university authorities. “While police are doing their job, BAMU should initiate stern action against the college concerned without wasting time. A probe should be done to investigate role of university insiders, if any,” he said. 
 
 Rahul Tayde of   said the whole incident had brought huge disrepute to the Bamu. Either the office of Maharashtra governor or the state government should initiate probe in the scam, he said.
 
