A team of scientists from coastal and ocean monitoring agencies have start ed work to predict the trajectory of oil spill and its impact on the coastal water and marine eco-system.

 The teams will monitor a radius of 30km from the location of the spill for the next few months as the slick can spread in all directions. The strong northeasterly winds and southerly longshore currents made the heavyfurnace oil that spilled from  , which collided with B W Maple near Ennore port, to spread to more than 22kms near Pattinapakkam within 56hours.There are chances the oil slick to further move along the coast towards Elliots Beach in Besant Nagar.
 
 A team from Integrated Coastal and Marine Area Management (ICMAM), under the ministry of Earth Sciences had collected samples along the coast, from Ennore to Pattinapakkam, in the past two days to assess the nature of the spill. Another team from Indian National Centre for   (INCOIS), Hyderabad is running models to predict the trajectory of the oil on the sea surface in the coming days using parameters like ocean weather and details of the oil. INCOIS had predicted accurately the oil will be beached within seven hours after it spilled. “The oil has drifted on the sea surface at the rate of eight to 10cm per second since it leaked on early Saturday morning,“ said Pravakar Mishra,   scientist.
 
 Water samples will test various parameters including levels of oxygen, pH, nitrate and nitrite and silicate in water as well as the levels of hydrocarbons in the oil. It will then be compared with the data collected from the same location prior to the oil spill.The analysis of the data will give scientists a clear picture of the impact on the water quality and the  . “Phytoplanktons (mi croscopic plants) and zooplanktons (microscopic organisms) which are at the bottom of the acquatic food chain may be affected due to the oil. Fish may also die if the oil chokes its gills. We will, however, start to see the full impact of the spill in the next couple of days,“ Mishra said.
 
 “As the leak happened close to the coast, it has drifted more towards the shore as the currents run parallel to the shoreline. While the oil has spread to a larger area in Ennore, one could see traces of a thin film of oil on the beach. There are chances that it may now move further south.“ His team has also captured images of the spill along the coast for further analysis.
 
 
