HARIDWAR:  , the Congress party nominee from the Haridwar city seat, heads a trust that has numerous properties in and around Haridwar reportedly worth hundreds of crores of rupees.
 
  He is the successor of  , a well-regarded sadhu of the area and former chairman of Rishikesh nagar palika parishad. He also runs a prominent school at Bhaniawala near Rishikesh whose grounds were recently used to host Rahul Gandhi's rally. Brahmachari is considered close to the Gandhi family and had also hosted Indira Gandhi and   at his ashram.
  
  Interestingly, while taking over the reins from his guru and uncle Devendra Swaroop, Brahmaswaroop had vowed never to take part in politics, but the pledge was quickly forgotten soon after the death of his guru. Those who have known him closely say that it’s not a surprise since he had a passion for politics right from his student days at the Rishikesh government college in the late 1970s. He has been a Congress supporter throughout.
  
  In fact, during the Ayodhya Ram temple agitation of the 1990s, almost the entire sadhu community in Haridwar had come out in support of the VHP. However, Brahmachari was one of the few exceptions. A veteran sadhu who has known him for a few decades said that the 60-year-old is an “elitist seer who likes to lead a lavish lifestyle.” “He is quite unlike a sadhu since he needs a valet for his routine personal work and often uses silver utensils while dining,” he claimed. Recently, he raised quite a few eyebrows when he submitted a whopping Rs 33 lakh as arrears in house tax before filing his nomination papers.
  
  Incidentally, Brahmachari was appointed the first vice-chancellor of Uttarakhand Sanskrit University as well as vice-chairman of the   in Haridwar during the tenure of the ND Tiwari government. He was regarded by many as having done a relatively good job while at the helm although he can lay little claim to doing any major work for the people in Haridwar unlike BJP's Madan Kaushik, who is a three-time MLA. However, Brahmachari is working hard to improve his chances. The question though is: will he get the support of his community?
