BATHINDA: Gangster-turned-activist Lakhbir Singh alias   has countered the claim of former Punjab minister and Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader   that no false case was registered on the latter’s recommendation in the   assembly constituency during two terms of his party rule’s in the state from 2007 to 2017.

 On Thursday, Lakha gathered over a dozen persons, including women at Bathinda, who claimed that false cases were registered against them at the behest of Maluka on political considerations. Lakha (37) had unsuccessfully contested the 2012 assembly elections from   Phool constituency, as the candidate of Manpreet Singh Badal-led People’s Party of Punjab (PPP).
 
 Speaking to the newspersons, he alleged that a large number of false cases were registered in Rampura Phool in the past 10 years at the behest of Maluka. He asked Maluka to have an open debate with him on issue of vendetta politics. On May 16, Maluka had accused the Congress government of registering false cases against Akali workers. He had also claimed that he never indulged in vendetta, and if anyone proved it, he would retire from politics.
 
 Taking along Congress workers and residents from Mehraj, Bhai Rupa and   villages in Rampura Phool constituency, Lakha said: “The largest number of false cases, more than any other constituency across Punjab, were registered in the Rampura assembly in the past 10 years at the behest of Maluka. He even maltreated employees and ensured officials who did not toe his line to be transferred. Maluka made the police harass women from other parties, and now he claims that he did nothing in 10 years. If he is true, he should swear upon God and have an open debate with me. I will put details of dozens of false cases.”
 
 When contacted, Maluka refuted the charges. He said: “I have the status of a former minister, and Lakha Sidhana is a gangster. I do not deem fit to respond to his false propaganda, which he is indulging in on the insistence of a Congress leader. I again claim that no false case was registered against anyone during the SAD-BJP government.” On the other hand, Bathinda SSP Naveen Singla said: “No false cases are registered by the police.”
 
 
