AURANGABAD: Pratidnya Kamble of Dighol village in Latur district is the talk of the town for her grit and determination. A venomous   failed to deter the 16-year-old from appearing for her   English exam from hospital on Saturday, thanks to the cooperation extended by the  .

 Well-prepared for the  , Pratidnya left home in her village for the exam centre around 8.30. As she was walking towards a pick-up van, her leg slipped into a fissure on the mud road and she felt some burning sensation. 
 
 The girl thought the irritation in her leg could be due to some abrasions as the mud was dry and hard. Oblivious of the fact that it was a venomous snake bite, she continued her journey to the exam centre at Kabansawangi in Chakur taluka, around 4km from her village.
 
 It was only after reaching the exam centre around 10.30 am did Pratidnya start feeling giddy. “I did not know what had happened to me, but the staff at the examination centre soon noticed signs of a snake bite on my leg and rushed me to hospital,” said Pratidnya.
 
 Premkumar Birajdar, who was in-charge of examination centre, said the girl was first taken to a taluka-level hospital and later to the district hospital as her health started deteriorating.
 
 “In the meantime, the girl’s parents and the state board authorities in Latur were informed about the incident,” he said. 
 
 After administering first-aid, Pratidnya gradually regained consciousness and the first thought that came to her mind was about the English paper.
 
 The Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHE) swung into action by treating the incident as a special case. “Since the girl had prepared hard for the examination, she was in no mood to give it a miss. To avoid imminent academic loss to her, we decided to allow her to appear for the exam from the state-run hospital,” said Ganpat More, officiating secretary of Latur division of MSBSHE.
 
 More and his team soon arranged the question paper and answer-sheets and the isolated room of the hospital turned into an examination hall for Pratidnya.
 
 “We appointed two senior members from the clerical staff for supervision and the exam was conducted between 1 pm and 4 pm,” said More.
 
 Vijayshri Kamble, her mother, profusely thanked the MSBSHE authorities as well as the staff at the examination hall. “I work as Anganwadi teacher and was shocked to get a call that my daughter was taken to hospital. Going by the symptoms, it was a bite from a venomous snake for sure that my daughter has survived,” she said.
 
 Pratidnya is likely to get discharged from hospital after spending 48 hours under observation. She is confident of clearing Saturday’s paper. “It was a freak day for me. Good I did not see the snake as I would have panicked,” said the brave girl with a smile on her face.
 
