HYDERABAD: A probe by the   (V&E) department into the functioning of two   in the state has thrown   on the part of the   (TSBIE).

 V&E officials had inspected 31 colleges run by   and Narayana Educational Institutions in various areas of Ranga Reddy district in 2015. While the colleges were slapped with a penalty of `2.09 crore for various discrepancies, the V&E report found several lapses on the part of regional inspecting officers (RIOs) among other TSBIE officials.
 
 In the recommendation section, V&E officials instructed the TSBIE to initiate stringent disciplinary action against the Ranga Reddy district RIO for permitting the educational groups to establish dozens of colleges in a mandalmunicipality . The report clearly stated that the RIOs permitting more colleges was a violation of GO Ms No 35 issued in 2007, which prevents monopoly of col leges. According to the GO, an educational group can't run more than 10% of colleges in a mandal or municipal area.
 
 While V&E officials also found violations regarding `collection of excess fees', the RIO of Hyderabad in his statement said that action against managements could be initiated if a specific complaint was made by a parent or student.
 
 “It is well known that corporate colleges give integrated coaching for IIT, AIEEE and Eamcet, in addition to teaching regular intermediate syllabus prescribed by BIE. It is also well known that they charge extra fees for coaching. Parents admit their wards into these colleges with full knowledge and understanding. Action can be initiated against management if a specific complaint is made by the parent or student,“ the report stated.
 
 The RIO had furnished a rebuttal to lapses stated. However, on verification, it was found that the information furnished was incomplete and insufficient.
 
 “In spite of all the above lapses, the RIO is inspecting the colleges in a casual manner by signing admission registers without taking any steps for rectification of the lapses. Thus, the RIO failed in discharging his legitimate duties as inspecting and supervising authority,“ the report said.
 
