Aurangabad:   activists on Monday resorted to beating drums outside banks in order to make the bank officials follow chief minister Devendra Fadnavis’s farm loan waiver announcement.

 “The chief minister has claimed that 40 lakh farmers across the state would have their 7/12 documents cleared of any loan entries. Thus, our chief, Uddhav Thackeray, has directed party workers to obtain the list of beneficiaries or beat drums outside the banks to make officials speed up the process,” said a Sena worker.
 
 Hundreds of Sena workers staged demonstrations amid beating of drums in front of the district central cooperative bank in the city — demanding a list of loan waiver beneficiaries from the bank.
 
 Sena district unit president Ambadas Danve said, “Banks adopt the same technique against loan defaulters so that he comes under social and moral pressure and pay the dues immediately. They also paste notices outside their house to recover the dues. Taking a cue from this method, the party has decided to beat drums outside the banks across the state so that bank officials make the list of beneficiaries public.”
 
 He added, “To the best of our knowledge no such list was provided to the banks, and the announcement has been made by the government. Sena chief has directed us to obtain a list of those who got loan waiver benefits in respective districts.”
 
 Danve said the chief minister must have a list of farmers at his disposal to make such an announcement. “Thus, Sena chief has asked to seek a list of beneficiaries from banks and confirm it whether farmers have actually received the benefit for which the party had joined hands with the farmers in the recent agitation,” he said.
 
 “The agitation would continue till farmers receive loan waiver. On Monday, we staged demonstrations outside banks across the state. On Tuesday, party workers would stage demonstrations outside bank establishments at taluka level, while on Wednesday such demonstrations would take place in villages,” Danve added. 
 
 
