NAGPUR: While on one hand, Nagpur education department continues to break records in implementation of Right to Education ( ), schools are unhappy saying the government is not keeping their end of the bargain.

 RTE payments, made to schools against free admissions given, have been a contentious issue right from the start.  , founder member of   ( ), said, “Approximately Rs 800 crores are yet to be repaid to us. We are going to stage a one-day protest and will continue to protest till our demands funds are repaid.”
 
 Avantika Lekurwale, a school trustee said, “The government is only paying a partial amount to us and our hands are also tied as any action taken by us will affect the education of the students. The government is actullay using us as they understand that these institution cannot take any strict actions. Our humanity and sympathy towards these children is seen as our weakness by the government.” 
 
 Another school owner, who did not wish to be named, said, “It is a clear cut case of fraud by the state government. They are most probably diverting the funds elsewhere and depriving us of it. They should have started giving payments right from 2012-13 and continued till the recent one. What the government is doing is giving us partial amount, approximately 66% of every bill submitted, and taking a legally safe stand.” The school owner’s wife, who too is a trustee said, “Now the government can say that they have started payments, which on paper checks out, even though they have cheated us out and out.” 
 
 Dayma said, “According to RTE law, it is state government’s duty to provide money to the schools. English medium schools are suffering because of the multiplication effect. So, say in a school, the entry point is Std I and upon admission the government paid 66%. But now those kids are in Std IV and every year we need to get reimbursed for their fee. This way the compounding effect on balance payment is hitting us very hard.” 
 
 As per practice, schools submit their bills twice a year (for the relevant period) to the district education office. After scrutiny, the bills are cleared and sent to Pune headquarters, following which the process of payment starts.
 
