In the past year,   University has been tangled in controversy over the subject of 'nationalism' and its place on its campus. From the sedition row to alleged 'anti-national slogans', nationalism has been at the centre of a raging debate in and about JNU. But last week, to show that their "students are not anti-national",   became the first university in the country to create a  , as part of the HRD Ministry's Vidya Veerta Abhiyan. The wall, which displays photos of 21 Param Vir Chakra recipients, has been set up at the convention hall. At its recent inauguration, Indian Army veterans shared stories of their heroic deeds and experiences with students. 

  JNU VC   said that "this is the kind of nationalism that is welcome at the university". Professors attending the event also said that the Wall Of Heroes was an important way for the university "to show that its students are not anti-national – they too have patriotic feelings for the country".
 
  
  Maj Gen PK Sehgal (retired), Col   (Retd) and Col JP Singh (Retd)
 
 
  
 Talking about the wall,   M Jagadesh Kumar said, "JNU's association with our soldiers is an honour for us. This is the real nationalist JNU and we would like to have more such programmes at the university. Today, if we are able to sit in our laboratories and study, if students can discuss and debate peacefully, it is only because of their sacrifices. If we are simply peaceful and tolerant, that is not enough, because there are forces both from outside the country and inside that are trying to destabilize the country. It is in this context that our soldiers play a key role in ensuring the safety of the country."
  
  
  Kumar also thanked former BJP MP   for making the photographs available to the university and asked students to click pictures with the wall and share them on social media. 
 
  
  Karamveer, ex-soldier who is now singer, Col VN Thapar (Retd) and Tarun Vijay, former BJP MP
 
 
  
 After many of the Army veterans told students that soldiers believe that India is an idea worth dying for, Tarun Vijay said, "India is an idea worth living for, so let enemies die now." He added, "JNU has chosen the best location to set up the Wall of Heroes. Thousands of people from across the world come to this university and they will see this wall which will remind them of great sacrifices."
 
  After the national anthem was played, students and teachers raised slogans of "vande mataram" and "Bharat mata ki jai". The Army veterans too appreciated the step by JNU. "You never get over it (your war experiences)," said Col (Retd) AK Tara, as he shared stories from the 1971 war and the significance of the Indian Army during any crisis. They also called upon the students to join the Indian Army. 
  
  
 
 
