Ahmedabad: As interviews are under way to recruit policemen to the State Monitoring Cell (SMC) — which is responsible for stopping the   — the agency plans to turn to human intelligence in police department itself. The SMC has decided to rope in ‘vahivatdaars’ — the widely networked personnel in the police force who manage the illegal collections for some cops — hoping to turn those who manage the proceeds of corruption into loyal informers of the administration.

 After the new stringent prohibition law came into force, the state government decided to strengthen the SMC by handing command of it to IGP Hasmukh Patel, currently additional director of the   (ACB). Patel is thought to be uncompromising in his approach towards the liquor mafia in the state.
 
  IGP Patel said that to deal with the liquor menace in the state they invited applications from all quarters for personnel looking to join SMC. “We finished the interviews of applicants from Saurashtra. Interviews of about 35 personnel were held on Wednesday at the ACB HQ at  ,” added Patel.
 
 Police circles were abuzz that some of the 35 who applied for a posting in the SMC and were interviewed were those who had been transferred out of district following the 2009 Ahmedabad hooch tragedy, which resulted in 145 deaths.
 
 IGP Patel said that even though background verification of those interviewed is yet to be done, this time they will be deploy some policemen with chequered backgrounds, because of their vast networks especially among the liquor mafia.
 
 “These policemen with shady backgrounds, known as   are loyal to those they work for. We can make them loyal to the SMC and use their vast human intelligence networks to track down bootleggers, who nowadays avoid mobile phones for fear of being tracked. Of course there are pros and cons, but it is worth a test. If they are found to be indulging in corrupt practices, they would be shunted out,” added Patel.
 
 The SMC presently has one IGP, a deputy superintendent of police, four police inspectors and about twenty men. “We are planning to strengthen it in terms of manpower and infrastructure,” said IGP Patel.
 
