GURUGRAM: The Punjab and Haryana   on Wednesday issued a notice to the state government for non-recovery of external development charges (EDC) and VAT to the tune of Rs 23,000 crore from the  . The state government has to file its reply before the next date of hearing on March 15.

 A division bench of justices SS Saron and Darshan Singh issued the notice to the chief secretary and the department of town and country planning (DTCP) on a public interest litigation plea filed by Gurgaon-based RTI activist Harinder Dhingra. Most of the pending EDC and VAT are to be recovered from developers for their Gurgaon projects.
 
 Advocate for the petitioner, Karanvir Singh Khekar, said the government should answer for the delay in recovery of Rs 12,027 crore of pending EDC and Rs 10,618 crore of pending VAT from the developers. “Such a big amount is pending and no concrete action has been taken by government for its recovery so far,” he said.
 
 Dhingra told TOI chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar had assured him on three occasions to recover the dues from developers pending for the past three to four years, but no action has been taken in the past one year. “So I was left with no option other than approaching the court,” he said. He added, “The developers have collected EDC and VAT from buyers. But instead of paying the same to the government, they are using this money for their business. Instead of collecting this money, which was supposed to be utilised for the development works, the government is offering them one scheme after another and rebate.”
 
 When contacted, director of DTCP, TL Satyaprakash, said they will soon issue notices to developers for recovery of pending EDC and infrastructure development charges (IDC). “We will take strict action in case the developers failed to settle their dues. Licences of the developers will be cancelled in case third party right has not been created,” he said.
 
 Earlier in April 2016, the state government had come up with EDC Relief Policy initially for six months, which was later extended up to January 20, 2017. The EDC Relief Policy was issued with an objective to enable the developers to pay their outstanding EDC/IDC, wherein they were given the option either to mortgage the project land or to submit bank guarantees.
 
 “No developer came forward to pay their pending EDC, IDC under the scheme as they are reluctant to mortgage the project land or submit bank guarantees. Developers are seeking change in this policy. It is not that difficult to collect the dues. Under the revenue act, the government can attach the property of a defaulter,” said Dhingra.
 
 
