KOCHI: With the MVD set to start school bus inspections from May 20, the   schools are taking steps to ensure that all safety parameters are met and the buses are in good condition to clear the MVD test. 

 Besides vehicle servicing, the schools have offered training to bus drivers as mandated by MVD before inspection. They also ensured that there is first-aid kit in all the buses.
 
 "We have taken all safety measures and precautions before the vehicle inspection starts. This includes servicing the buses, including painting, fire and safety," said  , principal, Bhavans Vidya Mandir, Elamakkara.
 
 "As per the MVD's rule, the school ensures to regularly service the vehicles and take adequate measures like ensuring the support staff and medical box in the school buses. There is a separate committee that ensures that the school buses are adequately maintained," said  , principal, Nalanda Public School. Meanwhile, Sreenarayana Public School that has already cleared the MVD inspection said that the whole task was easy for them as they had ensured that the school buses meet all requirements mandated by MVD. 
 
 The school principal,   said, "Requirements such as painting, fire and safety, speed governance and classes for school bus drivers were ensured before the inspection".
 
 Majority of schools claimed that they have ensured that all requirements mandated by the MVD in its circular to the schools, the most important being ensuring drivers' orientation classes and servicing of the buses regularly are met by the school.
 
 Some schools are not just stopping at drivers' orientation but they are keeping a watch on drivers for unruly behaviour. 
 
 Assisi Vidyaniketan Public School,Vypeen, principal Alphonsa P J said, "Besides awareness classes for drivers, we are constantly keeping a watch on drivers and they are prohibited from smoking or rash driving."
 
 With increasing demand of AC school buses, some schools have introduced more such buses to beat the heat. One such school is Choice School, Tripunithura. 
 
 The school principal Sunitha Satheesh said, "We are introducing 18 new AC school buses from this academic year. Each school bus will have GPS tracking system".
 
 On the other hand, Global Public School has this year installed an advanced system called RFID is in school buses that will be linked to the mobile phones of parents from this June. 
 
 "This system helps in tracking the school bus and the students in it. This system also helps in monitoring the boarding details of the students so that the parents can know when exactly the students are arriving," added the school principal, Indu Panicker. 
 
