HYDERABAD: After eyeing the   for the construction of the new  , it is now the   -which not only houses the   (MTA) but also serves as a much-needed lung space for the   city -that chief minister   has trained his sights on.

 But a day after he made his intentions clear, NCC cadets emerging from a training session at the MTA beside the Gymkhana Grounds were completely oblivious to the CM's plans. “The training is challenging. We even get to handle weapons,“ said a girl cadet with pride. She was taken aback when informed that the place they were undergoing training at ­ the Bison Polo Ground as it is more popularly referred to -may not be available for such trainings in the future. “Really?“ she asked, dismay writ on her face.
 
 The Bison Polo Ground is the place that military personnel and NCC cadets are not only trained but an NCC camp is also organised every year.This is also where cadets are selected to be part of the contingent that participates in the Republic Day Parade.
 
 Cadets have fond memo ries of this place, where they are trained to be tough, mingle with other students, make friends, participate in cultural programmes, and most of all make up their mind on whether they want to pursue their ambition of getting into the armed forces. Old timers who have taken part in the Republic Day camp as NCC cadets, recall the awesome bonding and experiences they had during the 10-day event which would culminate in the `bada khana' on the last day.
 
 “Cadets from all over the state would converge on these grounds. This ground is the place I made many friends with whom I am still in touch," said Rajesh Kumar.
 
 Being a Military Training Area, entry into the place is restricted. At the entrance is a warning: “Defence land. Trespassers shall be prosecuted.“
 
 On guard are soldiers who stay in a military tent inside the premises -on the right side close to the gate. There is also a military water tanker located there. The structures at the place have been used for training soldiers and cadets for years now. But all this may soon be a thing of the past, if KCR has his way and this parcel of defence land is indeed handed over to the state government for the construction of the secretariat complex.
 
 
 
 
 At a time when people of Secunderabad are fighting to get Army Ordnance Corps (AOC) roads reopened and prevent authorities from shutting Gough Road, the government's move to acquire Gymkhana Ground and Bison Polo Ground comes as a setback. Instead of snatching these spaces, the government should display determination and fight with people of the area to save their roads and grounds
 
