KOLKATA: Two children — aged six and eight — were killed in   between Friday night and Saturday morning.

 In the first  , eight-year-old   was crushed to death by an oil tanker on Taratala Road around 10pm on Friday. Police said Tuhina was travelling with three others on a bike, going towards Baranagar from the Parnasree area. “She was riding with her uncle, her 11-year-old sister and her mother. The woman and the girls were not accustomed to riding a bike. They were forced to use it when Tuhina’s father Amit failed to turn up at Parnasree and take them back to their Baranagar residence,” explained an officer. 
 
 None of the four was wearing a helmet and the girl was reportedly sitting atop the fuel tank. They had reached the CESC office area close to Taratala crossing when her uncle tried to negotiate a crater on the road. A speeding oil tanker behind them caught the bike’s handle and toppled it to the right. Tuhina hit the rear wheels of the tanker and her head got crushed. Taratala police and locals took all four to SSKM Hospital where Tuhina was declared dead. The others were treated and discharged.
 
  Police said they have arrested the tanker driver and seized the vehicle. 
 
 On Saturday morning, six-year-old Narkeldanga resident Tithi Gupta fell off a bike and was crushed by a private bus. The incident was reported from the MG Road area around 9.30am. Sources said Tithi was travelling towards Howrah station with her parents Manoj and Protima, as well as her sister Payel (12). Sources said the two children were not wearing helmets.
 
 “The bike had reached MG Road when it hit a cycle coming their way. The bike skidded on the tram tracks and the riders fell on the road. Tithi fell to her right and a private bus on route 71 hit the child with its left front wheel, killing her on the spot. Bus driver Haider Ali has been arrested. 
 
 The fatal squad of traffic police has been asked to take up both cases.
 
 Traffic cops admitted that wearing helmets would ensure safety of children, but added that those aged 12 or less may not be penalised. “But it is the responsibility of the parents to ensure the safety of the children. In case of any eventuality, the police have a provision to book them for rash and negligent driving,” a senior officer pointed out.
 
