Mysuru:   coming to Mysuru for   will have an easy commute: a TrinTrin bicycle ride for just Rs 50, and they require no registration or smartcard. 

 They can check into any three temporary manned public bicycle sharing docking systems around Mysuru Palace, provide identity proof, pay the sum and start riding the   straightaway. There is no waiting period, and the offer is for a limited period -- September 20 to October 2 -- to facilitate visitors to Mysuru.
 
 The district administration is going all out in its efforts to cash in on the Dasara festival in popularizing India’s first   by introducing daily, thrice a week and weekly plans for bicycle users. At present, a user has to register by paying Rs 350 and wait for 48 hours before using the bicycles. 
 
 Under the one-day plan, visitors and even residents can enjoy a TrinTrin bicycle ride for as little as Rs 50 and use the bicycle for a maximum of three hours. Three temporary docking stations will be created at Balarama Gate (north gate), Ambavilas Gate (south gate) and Varaha Gate (Palace entrance) around Mysuru Palace, where they can get bicycles by paying cash directly. Visitors can hire bicycles only from these three docking stations. 
 
 In the three-day and seven-day plans, a user had to download the Mytrintrin app and make the payment online. Later, they can access service using a quick response (QR) code, a provision that will be created on the app as well as at the docking stations. People can hire bicycles and retire them at any of the 45 docking stations across the city, explained Asha Kerakatty, manager, HR, Green Wheel Ride. GWR is implementing the project. 
 
 Under short-term plans, the unused amount will be repaid to the user through similar mode. 
 
 Deputy commissioner D Randeep said these short-term plans have been designed to benefit tourists and visitors, and we have sought police and civic authorities’ assistance for its success. 
 
 PEDAL ASSIST CYCLE 
 
 Two pedal assist bicycles will be made available to visitors and the public at the foot of Chamundi Hills and also Mysuru Palace on different days, to obtain feedback from users. Asha K, manager of GWR, said these bicycles will be fitted with a battery which will help the rider pedal. People can take short test rides and give their responses before the facility is made available. The experiment will be carried out during Dasara, she explained. 
 
 SMARTCARDS FOR HOTELS 
 
 The TrinTrin smartcard will be provided to hotels on demand. After many hoteliers sent requests, it was decided to provide them with cards to give to their customers. The onus will be completely on the hoteliers. 
 
 
