CHENNAI: Persisting in his allegation that private   producers were using harmful additives in their milk and milk products, state dairy development minister   on Thursday said the government had set up four committees to collect milk samples from all private companies to be tested. The committees have been set up in  , Salem, Madurai and Trichy.

 On Wednesday, the minister alleged that private firms were using harmful chemicals in the milk they produced causing cancer in many children. He said packets of milk produced by private firms had been confiscated and sent to a lab in Pune for tests. 
 
 “On checking the samples if we find they have used chemicals in milk, we will file criminal cases against them and shut down their factories,” the minister warned. Accusing private players of “playing with lives of people”, the minister claimed that it was only after checking the packaged milk of private firms for nearly five months that he was levelling these charges. 
 
 “There are some private companies which are capable of converting even curd into milk by using chemicals,” the minister said, perhaps in a sarcastic vein. The companies were using hydrogen peroxide and chlorine to prevent milk from getting spoilt, alleged Bhalaji. Milk produced by private firms does not get spoilt even after five days. “But, Aavin milk is like mother’s milk. It will spoil within five hours and this is good milk,” the minister told journalists at the secretariat after taking part in the cabinet meeting. 
 
 “We have received complaints against all private milk companies and most of the complaints are from employees. I am not saying milk from all private companies are bad. There are some private companies which sell good quality milk and public can buy it. But there are some who are using chemicals in milk,” said the minister. 
 
 Asked about rejoinders from companies that they were selling the best quality milk, the minister challenged them to allow activists and journalists to test their milk samples. “I challenge them to allow people to test their milk, then the truth will come out,” he said. 
 
