NEW DELHI: The Congress party's   got his best present on his 75th birthday today when he won from Patiala, even as his Congress party appears to be winning handily after almost a decade. Amarinder is reported to have won Patiala by 52375 votes.
 
 The Congress is ahead in as many as 74 seats In Punjab- it needs just 59 to form a government - and looks well set to form the government there.
 
 The Punjab Congress President is expected to celebrate at Patiala's Moti Bagh Palace this evening. Celebrations will be for two reasons - his win and because Amarinder will also become the longest living scion of the erstwhile Patiala princely state. While no invites have been sent, Amarinder was most likely to host a grand party at the palace, with Congress MLAs and other party leaders expected to be here by Saturday evening.
  
 So what if Amarinder appears to be losing to incumbent chief minister   in the Lambi constituency where also contested from? Badal's Shiromani Akali Dal (with the BJP) is losing badly.
 
 Amarinder, who decided to also contest from Patiala - his safe constituency - had the last laugh, because all the campaign sniping about his 'being afraid' of losing from Lambi aside, he is very likely going to be Punjab's Congress chief minister. And Badal will be losing his CM position. 
 
 
  
  
 
 In January, Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi officially announced the Punjab Congress president Captain Amarinder Singh as the chief ministerial candidate for the next month's state assembly elections.
 
 "Amarinder Singh has given his blood and sweat for Punjab. He has worked day and night for the development of Punjab. He has always worked for the Punjabi and Sardar community. He is going to be our chief minister," Gandhi said at a campaign rally.
 
  
 
 
 While the Congress veteran has been spending the last few days at his residence here, his hectic poll campaign schedule was followed by the release of his biography - The People's Maharaja - written by Chandigarh-based journalist Khushwant Singh.
 
 Punjab went to the polls for 117 seats on February 4. 
 
 
 
