Amritsar: ‘Bunker tourism’ being organized by a restaurant here has raised heckles of the border guarding forces. Sarhad, the restaurant owned by son of a former senior bureaucrat of Punjab, has been promoting its ‘visit to live bunkers’ feature to foreign tourists with aplomb despite the security concerns involved. The eatery is located ahead of the Attari village near the border.

 “A minivan, painted by Pakistani truck artists, takes visitors to live bunkers along the defense drain, India’s first line of defense against an attack from across the border,” said Sarhad owner Aman in a release sent to TOI from the account of his father ex-IAS officer Damanbir Singh Jaspal. A photograph of a Canadian tourist accompanied by restaurant guide Pargat Singh posing in front of a bunker on defence drain near the border was also attached.
 
 As soon as the news of foreigners visiting Army’s bunkers close to Attari international border with Pakistan emerged, Army, police, intelligence agencies and Border Security Force (BSF) started probing the incident. There has, however, been no official word on the issue yet.
 
 When contacted, defence spokesperson Lt Col Manish Mehta told TOI, “I am not aware of any such activity”. However, a senior Army officer, who didn’t want his name published, said, “The restaurant has been contacted by the police. BSF is also investigating the matter.”
 
 Amritar (rural) SSP Parampal Singh confirmed that police had received a complaint in this regards. He added that they had “warned the restaurant owner” to desist taking visitors to bunkers. The subdued response, however, was not unique to local police. 
 
 While the owner of the restaurant sent another mail send to TOI, saying, “Please withdraw story on border tourism”, the district public relations department too pitched in. “If any media person has received any press note and photos on border tourism, kindly ignore it because it has some objectionable photos on security from border, if possible kindly hold this matter and photos,” read the message from the public relations department. Last year, Jaspal had retired from the post of principal secretary to the state government, having headed several departments, including transport and public relation.
 
 In the first mail, Aman had said that he was encouraged to launch the border tourism package, after he realized that many guests, especially youth, were curious to learn more about how the nation’s borders are guarded and, in particular, about the 1965 and 1971 Indo-Pak wars. 
 
 The recent mail read: “Aman is presently exploring the possibility of permission from BSF to take visitors in small groups right up to the border fencing. A real time experience of being on the live border helps citizens appreciate the circumstances under which security forces guard our borders.”
 
 
