BHATTA- PARSAUL: Dhirendra Singh, touted as  's `sarathi' (charioteer) in 2011 when he hoodwinked the then  's security as he drove his motorbike into the twin villages of Bhatta and Parsaul, the Congress vice-president riding pillion, is finding it difficult to adjust into his new role:  's nominee from Jevar assembly seat in UP , which along with Noida and Dadri make up the  

 Singh played a key role in the 2011farmers' agitation over land acquisition and later as well, mobilising farmers against changes the Modi government wanted in the land acquisition-compensation Act UPA passed in 2013. But as BJP nominee, he must hail the very neta he'd attacked, particularly after BJP came to the Centre in 2014.
 
 “Our agitation painted Modiji's image as an anti-farmer politician,“ he conceded to TOI during campaigning. Though confident of victory , the dilemma of one who has joined the saffron party weeks ago after spending decades in ther Congress seems to weigh on Singh.“Ajeeb lagta hai. (It feels strange).I always fought against the BJP . But fact is in my seat, caste plays a bigger role than a party ,“ the Thakur neta admits. Jevar's has always been a Thakur vs Gujjar battle.
 
 Singh says it was a “hard decision“ to quit Congress, and still has a soft corner for Rahul.“Bahut bhale aur genuine hain Rahul,“ he says. Then a Congressman, Singh lost in 2012 by 9,500 votes to the BSP . He does not attack his parent party in speeches; barbs reserved for SP, BSP. He refuses to wear a cap or scarf with BJP colours or the lotus badge, mindful of the minority vote he won last time.
 
 “Mujhe sabka vote chahiye, Musalmanon ka bhi (I need everyone's vote, including Muslims),“ he says, adding: “I'll bring Muslims to the BJP.“
 
 Singh's entry into BJP has brightened the party's chances: it ended fourth last time, the candidate even lost his deposit.But Ajit Singh's RLD could still spring an upset-the Jat vote is clearly divided this time.
 
 BJP is hoping the Gujjar vote will get split between his rivals -fellow-caste nominees: BSP's sitting MLA and the SP candidate
 
