Gone are the days when seniors bullied juniors into calling them ‘sir’ and ‘madam’ or indulged in any form of ragging. The current crop of students believe in bonding with the freshers — first-year degree college students — and it’s not only through conversations. In city colleges, seniors have lined up some innovative ways to break the ice... 

 
 
 At KC College, seniors are organising interesting games for the new batch of students. Apart from regular icebreaker games like ‘Got A Minute To Win It?’, they have planned quiz competitions and workshops as well. Says Gopi Gupta, a student of KC College, “We conduct week-long activities for freshers, where they participate in minute-long events. These are fun, task-based activities like finishing a food item within a minute, finding the maximum number of words within a specified time and balancing a coin on a pencil.”
 They also organise treasure hunts. He adds, “This activity takes place from Churchgate to Worli and students have to find the treasure within four hours. The one who solves the maximum number of clues wins cash prize.”
 Shivani Chunekar, a student of  , says, “We have quiz competitions and language workshops for the first-years. This is to familiarise them with the staff and students. I remember taking part in it when I was new and it helped me open up quickly.”
 
 
 
 Right from Day One, freshers are encouraged to be a part of hobby clubs, where they can meet like-minded people.  , a final-year student of   college, shares, “We have clubs for movie lovers, budding poets and political enthusiasts. We try to rope in new students; this informal setting helps them get comfortable soon.” In many other colleges, the emphasis is on sports, where the seniors encourage newer talent to be a part of their teams. 
 
 
 Some colleges in the city conduct mentorship programmes for newcomers. The best of second and third-year students mentor the new batch. Jainam Shah, a second-year Mass Media student at  , says, “Known as the ‘Buddy Project’, mentors (referred to as buds) are assigned close to 10 students each. The programme also provides students with exciting internship opportunities throughout the year.” 
 The Department of Sociology and Anthropology at St Xavier’s College has a similar programme. Bhuvan Majmudar, a second-year Mass Media student at the college, says, “We have a mentoring programme, where freshers can turn to their mentors for any query that they have.” 
 
 
 
 The dynamics of freshers’ parties have changed. What was earlier limited to introduction rounds, fun performances, snacks and music within the college premises, have now gone fancier with parties being conducted in nightclubs. Adds Jainam, “Besides a party in a lounge, we, at UPG College, organise various competitions like Mr & Miss Fresher. It includes various rounds of competitions and gives one a chance to open up.”
 
 
 
 Some colleges organise proactive and engaging activities like nature drives, sapling plantation and treks for the freshers. 
 
