NEW DELHI: A special CBI court discharged on Thursday all accused in the   case, including former Union telecom minister   and his industrialist brother, Kalanithi. 

 The court observed that "no prima facie case warranting framing of charge against any of the accused is made out" because the charges against them are based on "misreading of official files" and speculation and surmises of the complainant. Following the complaint of Chennai-based telecom promoter C Sivasankaran, the Marans and others were charged with criminal conspiracy and corruption for receiving "proceeds of crime" totaling Rs 742.58 crore and laundering the amount. Special CBI judge O P Saini, however, observed that there was no existence of proceeds of crime. 
 
 The fact that the Marans are brothers and shareholders in companies are not indicative of any conspiracy, the judge said, while discharging the accused. "It may indicate their close association but nothing beyond that," he said. 
 
 "These (facts) may create a perception or suspicion that the money received in the company of   was meant for Dayanidhi, but perception or suspicion are not enough for criminal prosecution. The perception or suspicion is required to be investigated and supported by legally admissible evidence, which is wholly lacking in this case," Saini said, adding that "I am satisfied... that the entire case is based on contradictory statements of the witnesses". 
 
 Sivasankaran had wanted to expand his GSM mobile business in other states and accordingly applied to the department of telecommunications (DoT) for licenses in 2004. It was alleged that the grant of licenses in seven telecom circles, pending with DoT, were delayed with an "intent to force Aircel's exit from telecom business by constricting its business environment".
 
 According to the CBI, Dayanidhi had "pressurised" Sivasankaran to sell his stakes in Aircel and two subsidiary firms to Malaysian firm Maxis Group in 2006. After change in ownership to Maxis, all 7 applications for licenses and approvals pending since long were acceded to, the CBI alleged. In addition, Dayanidhi was accused of accepting "undue and illegal" gratification through his brother's company by Maxis.
 
 Senior counsels Kapil Sibal, Abhishek Manu Singhvi, R S Cheema, Sidharth Luthra, Rebecca John along with advocates Anirban Bhattacharya and Chahat Chawla had argued in the court that the delay in regulatory approvals cannot be attributed either to Dayanidhi or to Dr J S Sarma acting at Dayanidhi's instance.
 
 
