Looking for love online is pretty convenient nowadays. With dating apps to the rescue, finding a date these days is just a few taps away. But the experiences tend to be mixed - some manage to find their soul mates, others end up with a creepy   story! We got in touch with five such people, and here are their not-so-cool experiences…

 1. “I matched with a guy on  , who was an engineering graduate from one of the best colleges in India. We talked for about an hour on call, and he started claiming he’s in love with me. I started ignoring him from that very first call and told him there’s nothing like that from my side. Somehow, he managed to get my address and started sending me gifts at my place. It became a trouble to hide all this from my family, and I had a huge argument with him. But he’s a psycho and still keeps pestering me with calls and messages. I have vowed to not even look for friends online now.” Neha Sharma, 26
 
 2. “I met a bong girl online who was residing in Delhi. She was sweet and we developed a good bonding. We used to catch up after office, watch movies and have a good time together. I fell for her after seven months and confessed my love. She told me she had a terrible break up before meeting me online and was using me to keep herself distracted. I feel like I have been used for somebody else’s entertainment!” Tushar Mathur, 28
 
  
  
 
 
 3. “I talked to a guy for around 15 days on a dating app. Later, I got to know he’s my best friend’s ex, and had created a fake profile just for the sake of troubling me.” Mansi Kapoor, 27
 
 4. “I found a really handsome guy online and started crushing over him. We started talking and it was going pretty well. A few weeks later, he confessed he had a girlfriend and was interested in a threesome. I was taken aback, big time! I understand it is his personal choice, but it would have been nice if he'd revealed his real intention early on, instead of misleading me on for so long.” Jyotsna Soni, 27
 
  
  
 
 
 5. “I became friends with a girl through a popular dating app, and started liking her. We agreed to meet on a Sunday, and the date went pretty well. She left after two hours and told me she was returning home. I had no plans ahead, so I decided to stroll at the same place for some time. About 40 minutes later, I saw her sitting with some other guy at a coffee shop, and chit-chatting. Later she confessed, she had planned two dates for that day and loved the ‘thrilling’ experience.” Mohit Tiwari, 24
 
 (*Names changed on request, Images: Shutterstock)
 
