Did she have sleeping pills? No. Did she meet Raj on Wednesday? Even if she did, it’s no one’s business! CT was supposed to meet   on Thursday afternoon for a shoot. But as rumours broke of a tiff between   and his present and ex —   and Mimi Chakraborty — reports spread like wildfire that the two women had attempted suicide. Talking to us on the sidelines of the shoot, Mimi told us: “Am I superwoman, that I took sleeping pills on Wednesday and am shooting on Thursday? Why does gossip become Page 1 news?” Excerpts from an interview, where the top actress spoke about trial by media, a woman’s right to privacy and how some sections of the industry were hellbent on destroying her career. Over to her:

 
 
 No, I haven’t. I sleep less, true. But that doesn’t mean I’ve ever had sleeping pills.
 
 
 No, of course I didn’t! I was home in the morning; then I went to SVF for a meeting. In the evening I met some friends and then I was back home. And today (Thursday), I’m shooting for CT. If I had taken sleeping pills and was trying to commit suicide, would I be here giving this interview? I’m not superwoman, am I? Honestly, I love my life and would never want to end it.
 
 
 Some sections of the industry can’t take my success and are hellbent on destroying my image. Also, some mediapersons think that idle gossip can be Page 1 news. I know who is feeding this sort of gossip. Be it   or I, we both have families. We might be celebs, but we are human beings with a heart. Before making grave allegations about suicide attempts, the media should think twice. My relatives stay in Jalpaiguri and many of them are calling my parents. They are shocked and stunned, while my mother has taken ill. Thank god my parents are here with me. If they had been in Jalpaiguri, they would have got a heart attack after hearing the news. I’ve been getting hundreds of calls from friends and family. Just because we are celebrities doesn’t mean this doesn’t affect us. One year back, the way they reported on my breakup also left my family in trauma. I am sure Raj and Subhashree are going through the same trauma as I am going through now.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 Yes, I did call him to discuss the baseless gossip. He too is upset about the whole incident.
 
 
 
 What if I did? Just because he’s my ex, doesn’t mean that I will pop sleeping pills after meeting him. I’m not that fragile. We are adults and if we meet, we don’t need to hide anything. It is no one’s concern if we meet, least of all anyone in the media. I’m only answerable to my parents.
 
 
 
 All my friends know that I don’t take a plate for myself at any party. I always eat from someone else’s plate. Raj had biryani on his plate and I casually ate a few spoonfuls. So what? And I really can’t be bothered to find out what’s the fallout if I have biryani from Raj’s plate.
 
 
 
 Did Raj say he can’t forget me? Did I say I can’t forget Raj? Then who is saying these things? Not too long back, people were saying that I have a boyfriend in Turkey and I have popped sleeping pills to kill myself. So what happened to my boyfriend in Turkey? And am I not alive?
 
  
  
  
 
 
 (After a pause) Raj was an important part of my life and will always be so. He was my mentor. He has given me a film like  . So, he will always be special to me. I had a relationship with Raj for four years. May be it was my fault or his fault, but we could have dealt with it in a better manner. He could have behaved maturely and waited for me to come back from Turkey and not listened to rumours. But he got hyper and took all decisions hastily and that still makes me sad. He believed all the rumours and never felt the need to sit and sort things out with me despite having a four-and-half-year relationship. Sara jibon amar Raj-er upor abhimaan thakbe. There is a void, a deep void… Career-wise I am doing good, by god’s grace. People are praising me for Posto, then I am doing an important film on the Dhananjoy hanging case, Bollywood is calling, but yes, there are times when I feel lonely.
 
  
  
 
 
 Of course I did. I am human, right? But now it doesn’t affect me.
 
 
 I forgive but I don’t forget.
 
 
 
 
