GURUGRAM: It seems that being a toll booth employee at Kherki Daula is one of the most risky jobs in Gurgaon. The numbers show that at least two cases of   on toll   or vandalism at the plaza every week. Over 200 incidents of assaults have taken place at the toll plaza since 2015, including the one in the wee hours of Thursday in which the toll employees were assaulted and held captive by around 50 men over waiting in the queue.

 In 2016, the toll management filed 96 complaints of assaults on their employees and vandalism at the plaza, out of which 26 were turned into FIRs. Similarly, 119 such incidents took place at the toll plaza in 2015, in which 12 FIRs were registered at the Kherki Daula police station.
 
 But police cases don’t deter people from targeting the toll employees. In May 2016, a truck driver vandalised the   after being caught using a forged registration certificate to get toll exemption. He damaged property worth Rs 2.50 lakh, and assaulted the booth operators and other staffers. 
 
 The violence prompted then police commissioner to order an FIR against 40 people who have previously been caught using fake documents at the toll plaza.
 
 Similarly, in August 2015, seven men   toll booth operator Sitaram Singh for asking to pay the fee. “Being threatened and flashing of weapons is more common than one can imagine at this toll plaza. All we ask people is to wait for their turn and pay the toll fees if they don’t have the toll tag,” said a toll booth employee, who did not wish to be named.
 
 Toll booth staffers also say there are regular skirmishes between them and locals over payment of toll fees as villagers claiming exemption get agitated when asked to show original registration papers of their vehicles. They say lack of serious action by the police emboldens the offenders.
 
 Though one cops is posted there, the police deployment at the toll plaza is beefed up every time there is a major incident. “The security is provided at the Kherki Daula toll plaza as and when required. We had posted over 100 cops at the toll plaza when demonetisation took place. But we cannot always keep so many cops there because we also have limited resources. In case of an emergency, force is always sent there,” said ACP Manish Sehgal.
 
 “We have around 90 staff members at Kherki Duala, but only one of them is a gunman who is primarily there to safeguard the cash,” said TC Rao, managing director of Skylark, the highway operator.
 
 
