BENGALURU: Confusion galore greeted lakhs of students appearing for   on Monday. While two months ago it was decided that students will be given  , on Monday all they got was the question booklet for the first language paper. Basically, they had to write the answers on the same booklet. 

 “Every day, our teachers have been telling us that we ought to be careful while writing the question numbers on the separate answer scripts. While we were prepared for the change, the question paper we got on Monday went back to the pattern that the board had scrapped,” said  , a student of a  .
 
 The Karnataka Secondary Education Examination Board (KSEEB) and the state government had, in January, decided to bring back the earlier practice of answering in  . The state-level preparatory exam papers are set by the Bengaluru north headmasters and composite PU college principals’ association. The exam began on Monday after two other rounds of school and district-level preparatory exams held over the last month.
 
 “We are confused,” said Manisha Jain, another student. “Are we supposed to write the board exams according to the new system or the old one,” she asked. 
 
 However, Sudi Suresh, president of the association, told TOI: “The association deeply regrets the inconvenience caused to lakhs of students. These papers were prepared last August, so that they could be delivered to all districts on time. The government took the decision to change the pattern only in January. It would have been too late for us to change the pattern of the preparatory exam papers. However, as soon as the board made the announcement, we cautioned students that this exam was only for practice and that during the finals they’ll have to write on separate sheets.” 
 
 Criticizing the error, D Shashikumar, general secretary, association of private unaided (state board) schools (KAMS) said: “We spend a lot of money to get these papers from the board. Why are they causing so much confusion? At this rate, the preparatory exam should be called off.”
 
 
 
 As per norms, students must take two mandatory preparatory exams and they have already done so. Given that the association has committed such a blunder, the exams cannot continue with the papers set by it. I have directed all block education offices and schools to stop providing booklets to students from Tuesday. Subject teachers will prepare the question papers and students will write the answers on separate sheets in keeping with the new pattern. However, exams will continue as per schedule. 
 
 Abdul Wajid Khaji | deputy director of public instruction, Bengaluru North.
 
