HYDERABAD : Chief minister   has said that the government will introduce a legislation to ensure   and Scheduled Castes in the state in the current budget session of the Legislative Assembly .

 His assurance came in the   on Wednesday during a discussion on a motion of thanks to the Governor's address last Friday to a joint sitting of the Assembly and the Council.
 
 Chandrashekar Rao, responding to a pointed question on Muslim reservation issue from leader of the opposition in the Council, Mohammad Ali Shabbir of the Congress, agreed with the opposition leader that the state needs to legislate the reservation quotas for the two sections of the society to make a strong case before the Centre for allowing the changes. As per law, the total reservations offered by any state government cannot exceed 50% of the population, a provision that will be exceeded if reservations to Muslims an SCs are increased.
 
 Shabbir Ali, wanted to know what steps the government was planning to take to ensure that the TRS' promise of 12 per cent reservations to Muslims is fulfilled. When the   replied that the two Houses can pass resolutions and forward them to the Centre, Shabbir Ali pointed out that previous resolutions on the Polaravam project taken up by   among other issues, made no difference and did not help Telangana in any way . “Instead, the government should first have the Cabinet accept the Sudhir Committee recommendations on the reservation. Then it should bring the promised legislation for 12 per cent Muslim reservation,“ he said.
 
 He also said that after this, the legislation, once passed by the two Houses, can be sent to the Centre seeking approval on the lines of the 50% quota that was increased as in the case with reservations in Tamil Nadu. K. Chandrasekhar Rao then said that the government will seek inclusion of the reservations in the 9th Schedule of the Constitution as was done in the case of Tamil Nadu.
 
 If the request is not accepted then I will call for a meeting of chief ministers of regional parties and discuss the issue of how certain relaxations must be given to states on such matters. If need be, I will sit on a dharna at Jantar Mantar in New Delhi along with like minded parties, he added.
 
