LUCKNOW:   is nostalgic about the rides she took astride her father’s   scooter, meandering through the lanes of Diamond Dairy in  , where she was born 28 years ago. 

 Years later, she’s back in those lanes, asking people to elect her their MLA. Much has changed since she left. The Cantt seat is more densely populated, number of urban poor has risen, as has squalor. 
 
 In many parts, drains are choking and spilling over. Aparna too has metamorphosed from the frock-clad girl standing on the front board of her father’s scooter, to the chiffon-draped bahu of Samajwadi patriarch  . This time, the sister-in-law of UP CM Akhilesh Yadav is the SP nominee from the Cantt seat. 
 
 At a gathering of advocates, Aparna says, “There were allegations that I wouldn’t come here because I’m married into a prominent family. Will you maybe snap ties? What should I do? I must shoulder both responsibilities, of a daughter-in-law and of a daughter.” Aparna sounds earnest, tells people she’s provided for their needs even when she isn’t an MLA. Betraying none of the nervousness of a fi st-timer, she rattles off numbers: 250 roads, 58 submersible pumps and nullahs widened. The fl ow of work, she insists, will improve if she gets elected. 
 
 There’s also a good word for ‘jeth’ Akhilesh. “Cantt vidhan sabha has benefited the most under him. The Lucknow metro will benefit people most,” she adds. But this seat isn’t the proverbial cakewalk for the debutante despite her stature as SP’s chhoti bahu. SP has never won here, and their cadre presence, her younger brother and campaign manager Aman says, was minimal when they began canvassing nine months ago. 
 
 This is a BJP hub and Aparna is pitted against warhorse Rita Bahuguna Joshi, the current MLA. Despite a negative campaign against her, Aparna remains undeterred. “There have been legislators here who have done no work. The squalor is appalling, but there seems to be no accountability. I want to be a change agent.” Aparna is unmoved, she says, by accusations of being at the centre of the SP family feud raging until a few months ago. “Kuch to log kahenge, logon ka kaam hai kehna,” (People will talk), she smiles, and adds, “Three things matter: IQ, EQ and SQ. 
 
 The spiritual quotient has helped me… Families should be close-knit. As the product of an integrated family, I want my daughter to have the same happy environment I grew up in. I’ll do everything for my family. Netaji and bhabhi (Kannauj MP  ) campaigned for me. Bhaiyya (Akhilesh) will too.” Aparna’s electoral run is unique in its youthfulness. From obtaining permissions for cars, to managing booth-level ‘basta’ distribution, the management remains in the hands of family and friends, all under 30. When asked, she laughs: “A few 40-yearolds help us with strategy, but they like to work behind the scenes.” Who’s her inspiration?   Robbins, she says. “My husband Prateek took me to Tony’s seminar. He’s my guru and I’ve learnt a great deal from him.” Ask her if she’s confident about winning and Aparna responds: “I have had massive support. I should win. My job is to work hard, I’m doing that.”
 
