Have you ever stormed out of a restaurant, regretting having paid their  ? Well, you’ll never have to do that again. The   announced earlier this week that ‘service charge’ (which varies between five and 20 per cent at different restaurants) will now be entirely up to the customer to pay or simply ignore. Here’s what restaurant owners and customers have to say about this.

 
 
 
 Anushri Jain, the owner of The 78 Boulevard shares, “I don’t think it’s a good decision, because a lot of customers - whether they like the service and food or not - might just refuse to pay service charges. When we started our restaurant, we never charged service charge and instead paid the staff tips from our pockets, because customers did not tip even after 
 appreciating good service. So I feel a minimum service charge is not a bad thing, because it is an 
 appreciation of the people who serve customers.”
 
 
 
 Kapil Jadwani, a city-based food blogger, is of the opinion that waiters at most restaurants who levy this charge, are not aware about how much they should be getting from their employer. So, it’s better that customers pay their waiters 
 directly. “I think that is a win-win situation,” Kapil insists 
 
 
 
 As   in the city take their time to come to terms with this news, there are mixed opinions. Jagdish Makhija, who runs Vidorra, shares, “The service charge that we levy eventually goes to the staff. So this might encourage the staff to work more efficiently. I feel Indoreans will continue paying the service charge if they like the services.” And some restaurateurs like Ashish Jaiswal, the owner of Nest Café, are totally against service charge. He says, “We are completely against levying service charge. It should up to the customer whether they want to tip the waiter or not. People visit cafes and restaurants after doing their homework about the place and only go because they like the food and ambience and the restaurants already charge for the quality of food.”
 
 
 
 
 After receiving complaints from several irate customers, about having to pay amounts varying between five and 20 per cent as service charge, the Department of Consumer Affairs (govt. of India) sought a clarification from the Hotel Association of India. When the association replied that "service charge is completely discretionary and should a customer be dissatisfied with the dining experience, they can have it waived off," the Department of Consumer Affairs has asked State Governments to see that hotels and restaurants specify through displays that "the service charges are discretionary or voluntary". It must be noted here that while most restaurants specify the amount of service charge they levy in their menus, they do not specify that a customer can waive it, in the event of being dissatisfied with service.
