PATNA: With the   (PMC) election coming closer, the prospective candidates for ward councillors are trying their best to woo the voters. Many of them are using even   to make the   of their areas aware of the works they have already done or promises to do after winning the election.
 
  PMC election is to be held on June 4. The process of filing nomination papers will begin on April 29 and it will continue till May 9.
  
  Most of the prospective candidates the TOI talked to said their first choice was door-to-door campaign as it helps in better connectivity. However, they are also using social media to connect with their voters.   and ward number 61 councillor Roop Narayan Mehta would be contesting the election from ward 68 this time. Mehta said he was using social media for the first time in PMC election to keep in touch his the voters. “I have a WhatsApp group of my ward residents and close friends and I keep the group members updated about my works,” he said.
  
  Another sitting councillor, Sanjeev Kumar, would again contest from ward number 22. He, too, has become active on social media. In fact, Sanjeev recently got a book released. It contains the details of the works he has done in his area so far. The book also contains important contact numbers of PMC officials, including PMC commissioner, sanitary inspectors and tax collectors. “The book was released three months back and I distributed its copies among the residents of my ward. The idea was to provide them easy access to   in case of any emergency,” said Sanjeev.
  
  In fact, a few ward councillors have moved a step forward and got songs composed for them to be used during electioneering. One such councillor is Abha Lata from ward 4, who would contest from ward number 8 this time. Abha has not only become active on social media, but also got a Bhojpuri song composed, especially for the election. Abha said with changing times, it is important to adapt to the latest technology.
  
  However, in spite of various social media platforms available, contestants are giving first preference to door-to-door campaign. Patna mayor Afzal Imam, who won the election from ward number 52, said, “Meeting people directly makes an impact. People look for the candidate who is well qualified and has the potential to deliver the good.” This time, he would campaign for his wife Mahjabeen as the seat has been reserved for women candidates.
  
  Ward 28 councillor Vinay Kumar Pappu agreed with Afzal. Pappu, who won the previous election without any competitor, said the voters decide about the candidates on the works done by them for the area.
  
  But, all the candidates agreed the competition this time would be tough as the number of candidates in almost all the wards had doubled this time. “There would be more than 1,000 candidates for the 72 wards this time,” Afzal said. When asked about the reason behind so many people jumping into the fray, he said, “The PMC image has improved and many find it a good platform to do social service.”
  
  Last time, 12 candidates contested from ward number 4. Their number this time is likely to reach 22. In fact, in wards like 63 and 70, the number of candidates will cross 40. Even from ward 68, four people contested last time and this time 20 candidates are likely to be in the fray.
  
  The reason behind the surge in the number of candidates is being attributed to tremendous increase in the funds sanctioned to the ward councillors for development works. Each ward has been allocated Rs1.10 crore in the PMC budget for 2017-18 and the ward councillors have the authority to recommend for the required development works in their respective areas. The amount last year was Rs1 crore and before that it was only Rs50 lakh.
