GHAZIABAD: A 19-year-old BBA student was killed while two of his friends escaped with injuries when their car rammed an electric pole in Vaishali on Tuesday.

 According to the police, the accident occurred as the Swift Dzire car they were travelling in was being driven at a high speed and it lost control near the Vaishali Sector 6 culvert bridge and rammed the electric pole at the spot.
 
 The deceased,  , a first-year student of IMS college in Noida, died on the spot while his two friends with him in the car, one 17 years old and the other 15, suffered injures and were taken to Shanti Gopal hospital in  . After treatment, they were discharged on Tuesday night.
 
 While the police claimed that the car was being driven by Arjun, his father,  , refuted the claim, saying his son did not know how to drive. “I fail to understand that how my son could drive as he did not know how to drive a car,” said Chand Kapur, who is a director in a shipping and logistics company and lives in Pearl Court in Ramprastha housing society.
 
 According to Chand Kapur, the car was being driven by the 17-year-old friend of Arjun. “The theory that my son was at the wheel is false and CCTV footage shows that it was the 17-year-old friend of his at the wheel while my son was sitting on the back seat,” Chand Kapur said.
 
 The police, meanwhile, said the car was speeding and near the Vaishali culvert bridge it lost its balance because of tyre burst and rammed an electric pole. “After inspecting the site we concluded that tyre burst had led to the accident and we were told by the survivors that Arjun was at the wheel,” Anil Yadav, circle officer, Indirapuram police station, said.
 
 Chand Kapur alleged that the police were not cooperative. “As a rule it is not mandatory to conduct autopsy of an accident victim but still the police refused to hand over the body of my son unless I gave an undertaking that I would not lodge a case. That clearly indicates there was an attempt to hide facts,” Chand Kapur said. “I had no option but to do what I was told,” said Kapur, who had just returned after cremating his son.
 
