CHENNAI: The murder of senior journalist Gauri Lankesh last week suggests that intolerant forces are on the rise, but it is government’s responsibility to ensure the freedom of speech, noted David Callaway, chief executive officer, The Street Inc., a US-based financial news website.

 Callaway, the former editor-in-chief of American daily USA Today, was in the city to attend the 25th annual   and News Publishers (WAN-IFRA) conference. “It is not India alone. Russia, Mexico and  , where 150 journalists have been jailed without any charges, have witnessed an attack on press freedom. In the USA, President Trump’s comments against the media have led to a situation where reporters are harassed by his supporters,” Callaway said at the conference.
 
 On the other end of the spectrum, the emergence of   is an area of concern, not just among journalists. Thomas Jacob, chief operating officer of WAN-IFRA said fake news contributed to the reader’s increasing disillusionment with mainstream media. “If getting a reader’s attention represented currency for news media earlier, today gaining the reader’s trust has become the primary objective,” Jacob said. Conceding with the scenario, Michael Schmidt, South African investigative journalist, said the mainstream media was guilty of losing track of its audience’s requirements.
 
 The focus today has shifted to social media with tech giants like Facebook and Google driving digital content and providing a platform for proliferation of fake news. “At the height of the US presidential race, fake news content on Facebook generated 87 lakh (reader) engagements, while mainstream media content generated only 73 lakh engagements,” Jacob said.
 
 According to the 2017 Digital News Report by Reuters, a survey of 70,000 respondents revealed that prevalence of fake news has resulted in a substantial drop in trust factor. Only 40% people trusted mainstream media’s ability to separate fact from fiction while only 24% thought the same about social media’s ability.
 
