CHANDIGARH: The Congress has decided to put on hold the much-expected expansion of the   in Punjab till the completion of the   and   in the state.

 The decision came following two back-to-back meetings between Amarinder and   Gandhi in Delhi on Saturday.
 
 The move left 30-odd Congress MLAs, who were camping in Delhi for a cabinet berth, disappointed. Party sources said that these included: Balbir Singh Sidhu, Gurpreet Singh Kangar, Darshan Singh Brar, Amrinder Singh Raja Warring, Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi, Fateh Jung Singh Bajwa, Amrik Singh Dhillon, Surender Dawar, and Vijay Inder Singla.
 
 The Gurdaspur bypoll has been necessitated due to the death of Bollywood actor Vinod Khanna, who was representing the constituency since 2014.
 
 While Rahul, who met Congress party affairs in charge and Dalhousie MLA Asha Kumari, general secretary Harish Choudhary and Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar along with Amarinder, expressed contentment over the 100-day report card on government’s performance in Punjab, a senior leader claimed.
 
 Party sources said the Congress would want to focus on facilitating trouble-free paddy and wheat procurement as well as smooth GST collection from traders and businessmen before the elections to four municipal corporations, 32 municipal councils and nagar parishads, as well as, Gurdaspur.
 
 While the Congress has decided to defer the civic polls, the Gurdaspur bypoll would have to be conducted within six months from Khanna’s death on April 27.
 
 One of the major concerns discussed at the meeting was the inability of the Congress to change the public sentiment that Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) was no longer in the power. Sources in the party said that MLAs' concern over inability to redress party workers’ grievances before the police and district administration, as well as, change of guard in the state police was brought before Rahul.
 
 Later, Jakhar said he briefed Rahul that the credit in the public was not commensurate with the recent big achievements by chief minister such as Rs 9,500-crore loan waiver, stamp duty cut from 9% to 6% to bring realty boom, the Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) Act, arrest of blacksheeps in police force by the anti-drugs STF, pruning the VVIP security to the tune of 1,300 personnel, and ending the VVIP culture.
 
 “These are the top draws of this government. The chief minister and the Congress government is not getting credit for the work which it has done in last 100 days. We don’t want to face the situation like the UPA over its national schemes introduced during that time such as MNREGA, GST, JNURM, which have been rechristened as Swachh Bharat and so on,” said Jakhar.
 
 Considering that agriculture dominates Punjab’s economy, the party has decided to showcase that the government recently surpassed 117 lakh tonnes of wheat procurement compared to the last season’s procurement figure of 104.44 lakh tonnes.
 
