Until a few months ago, policeman Harikrishna (name changed) gorged on all things delicious and well, unhealthy. Whether it was his favourite plate of bhajiyas or the frequent cups of chai, he didn’t care much about the effect it could have on his health and his waistline. But that’s not the case anymore. Harikrishna has now realised the importance of a proper diet and he is not the only one. Cops across the city, from the top rank to the constabulary, have started keeping track of what they eat like never before.
This positive change has come about in recent times after Police Commissioner   initiated workshops for the   force that focussed on eating right and staying healthy. 
 
 
 
 Life has changed a good deal ever since, not just for the men in uniform, but also for their families. As constable Nitin Bhosle says, “There’s a huge difference in the way we cook food at our home now. It has very little oil and my mother and wife both understand why it’s necessary to eat right. 
 Our families are supporting us to maintain our fitness levels.” 
 The women in the house have taken it upon themselves to help their husbands stay fighting fit. Inspector Sadanand Mane’s wife Sailee, who is into fitness herself, makes sure that her husband eats at regular intervals. “I pack several tiffins for him. The idea is to make sure that he eats nutritious food through the day. They do a hard job and their timings too can be odd, so it’s important that they don’t skip their meals.” Her husband agrees. “Our jobs are hectic and we tend to eat at any time. I know of many cops who used to skip breakfast; they would just have a cup of tea and set out for work. But things are changing for the better now and people are realising that erratic food habits can have an adverse effect, not just on our weight, but also health,” says Mane. The emphasis is a lot more on veggies and 
 salads, fruits and juices in many police households. 
 
 
 
 Meanwhile, the canteen at the Police Commissioner’s Office in Crawford Market smells different now, what with the cooks being given some serious instructions. “Earlier, we didn’t have fruit salad in the canteen, but now, we do and that’s a hot favourite among the cops,” observes Assistant Police Inspector Feroz Patel, adding, “The workshops have helped many policemen make simple changes in their eating habits, which are showing positive results. Around 50,000 booklets on healthy eating were also printed and distributed among the policemen.”
 
 
  
  Dietician  , who conducted the workshops for the policemen, says, “What has made this project a success is the fact that the commissioner is so hands-on. We first held workshops for the cops, after which he suggested that we conduct them for their families as well. And that really worked. Little changes in one’s diet can go a long way. Like I have told them, they could start their day with a banana instead of tea, have a wholesome meal between 4 pm and 6 pm, and instead of having many cups of tea throughout the day, they could opt for sugarcane juice, coconut water or kokum sherbet.” 
 Another big change that has taken place is when the cops go for their bandobust duty. Says Rujuta, “Earlier, they were served chai and biscuit. Now, it’s poha, kokum sherbat and rajgira chikki. There’s a change taking place in the system; it is a good beginning and I’m sure it will only get better from here.” 
 
 
