PUNE: The   on Thursday launched the state-wide ‘Hello Forest’   a day earlier than previously announced. 

 Officials of the   stated that the early launch was due to a graduates constituency election slated to take place in Nashik.
 
 “If it was launched on Friday as planned, it would interfere with the model code of conduct coming into effect in the region. Hence, it was decided to make the announcement on Thursday,” an official told TOI. Cabinet minister of forests   inaugurated the helpline, along with forests secretary Vikas Kharge, as well as the principal chief conservator of forests (PCCF), and other forest department officials at Chandrapur.
 
 The helpline can be reached by dialling ‘1926’ from any phone. As reported earlier, it will be operated on a 24-hour basis by an agency located in Goregaon, Mumbai with the option of three languages – Hindi, Marathi, and English.
 
 Callers can phone in emergencies, as well as for general or eco-tourism related queries. Any time a particular query or call is made, a forest official will be assigned to ensure and report the action initiated over the same.
 
 Additional principal chief conservator of forests (APCCF), social forestry, Nitin Kakodkar had previously explained that the system has been under testing since a month and For specialized queries, one of the eight subject experts will be contacted and the expert's response will be passed on to the caller.
 
 In case of an emergency such as straying wild animals, the forest officer of that region will immediately be contacted and briefed about the situation. “The caller will also be given the officer's contact details but action will be initiated right after the helpline call. All calls will be recorded and their responses will be checked,” the official explained.
 
  A website from where citizens can enrol for the ‘Green Army’, a voluntary forest help service, was also launched at the occasion.
 
 Tata joins hands with dept for bamboo research
 
 Tata Group interim chairman Ratan Tata was present on Thursday, when Tata Trust signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the forest department for development of employment through the Bamboo Research and Training Centre in Chandrapur.
 
 
