KOCHI: Thodupuzha native George Thomas has been cultivating paddy for the past three years. Every year, he leases land and cultivates three or four kinds of rice and vegetables. At 63, he says all his enthusiasm seems to be draining because of the hardships. “There are challenges for farmers. Everybody wants to eat 'safe' food. Not all can take up large scale cultivation. If there is practical support from government departments, I would like to continue. The last three years haven't been so.“

 This year, he has cultivated four varieties of paddy . He goes all the way to   to collect original rice seeds and now has his own.“Only half the produce has been processed.There are very few good rice mills where I can also be assured that my organic rice will not become inorganic by the time it is out of the mill.“
 
 Farmers, be they paddy cultivators or horticulturists, all face the problem of marketing their produce. “I call up friends and through word of mouth, I carry and sell the produce.Since it is completely organic, many people trust me. This is not how it should be,“ he said.
 
 Shankar C V , a horticulturist from Palak kad said that the government has announced the   (PGS). It should be adopted for organic certification, but that's not been happening. “It helps clusters of farmers. According to the PGS programme, the principal agriculture office will act as the regional council and they will monitor the farms,'' said Shankar.
 
 The officials of the agriculture department are expected to check whether the farmer is following organic cultivation and issue a certificate which can help them sell produce at a higher price. “We don't get any support from our agriculture department. They are too busy with their paperwork. Some officers are helpful. They connect us to prospective buyers. But let's hope something will happen when the Kerala brand is launched,“ said  , a farmer from Ernakulam.
 
 Shortage of labour, difference in land patterns and hence lack of uniformity in production costs is a huge challenge for farmers.“There's no proper definition for organic produce. The state's farm lands have different patterns. It depends on the kind of farming also. But before the consumer, they are all the same. This is a huge challenge we face,“ said Arun, another farmer.
 
