JAMNAGAR/DWRAKA: Congress vice-president   kicked off his most elaborate people's   in   with a warm welcome from Patidar quota stir leader Hardik Patel.

 “Congress ke rashtriya upadhyaksh Rahulji ka Gujarat mae hardik swagat hai..Jay Shri Krishna (a warm welcome to Congress vice president Rahul Gandhi in Gujarat...),“ Hardik tweeted.Notably, Gandhi is visiting several areas that had witnessed large-scale violence during the 2015 Patidar agitation.
 
 After offering prayers at the famous Dwarkadhish temple in Dwarka, Gandhi hit the 150km road to Jamnagar, stopping intermittently at several places, interacting with people and addressing crowds in villages en route.He reached out to the entire cross-section of the society right from farmers, school children, teachers, businessmen and fishermen.
 
 He launched a scathing attack on Prime Minister Na rendra Modi over issues ranging from demonetization, the Goods and Services Tax (GST), unemployment, black money and poor state of education and healthcare in the state and country. He also latched on to the social media campaign `Vikas Gone Berserk', which has rattled the BJP, to strike a chord with the locals when he told a crowd in Khambhaliya that `Vikas Pagal Thai Gio che' in Gujarati.
 
 Travelling in a specially designed bus, he made stops in at least 15 places between Dwarka and Khambhaliya as he got down to greet people, shake hands with them and briefly even talking with many. The Gandhi scion made a stopover at Hanjrapar village near Bhatiya town where he fired salvos at Modi for mere ly giving im pressive speeches and making tall claims while the ground reality was completely opposite.
 
 “Modiji talked about bringing back black money from the Swiss accounts and promised Rs 15 lakh in every citizen's account. He promised employment to 2 crore youths every year. But the fact is only 1 lakh got jobs in the whole country last year.You make impressive speeches and make tall claims. But what about basics like water, electricity , hospitals and schools. People haven't got anything,“ he told a cheering crowd in Hanjrapar.
 
 Mocking government over note ban and digital push, he asked, “Do you use mobile phones, credit cards or cash to buy seeds? Do you pay labourers with credit cards?“ The Congress VP, who rode on a bullock cart on entering Hanjrapar, tried to woo farmers by lauding their contribution to the country's progress in 70 years.
 
 “India is being talked about world over for its growth. But who took this country forward. They were your forefathers. They were farmers and not big industrialists. Though everyone including politicians acknowledge farmers' contribution in nation building, nobody comes forward to help them.Your land, which you consider to be your mother, is snatched away in minutes and given to businessmen,“ he said.
 
