HYDERABAD: A youngster from Hyderabad, duped by a broker from  , is now languishing in a remote area in Saudi Arabia without food and work. Also, he is being tied upside down and thrashed by his employer. Adding insult to injury, the Hyderabad police have not taken any action against the broker when the 22-year-old’s family approached them. 

 In May, 2016, Sheik Taufeeq had paid Rs 1.30 lakh to agent, Imtiyaz of Santosh Nagar, who facilitated him to reach Riyadh to get a job as an office boy with a salary of Rs 30,000. However, Taufeeq, after landing in Riyadh, was picked up by an unknown person and taken to his employer (kafil) at  . 
 
 “Hoping for a decent salary, my son went to Saudi Arabia to work as an office boy, but to our shock Taufeeq‘s life has become hell as his kafeel and his family members were beating him and making him do domestic chores for nearly 20 hours. On October 9, he made an attempt to escape. He was nabbed, tied upside down and beaten black and blue. We came to know about it after he secretly called us with the phone of another person, also a slave,’’ Taufeeq’s mother  , a resident of Rasoolpura, told STOI. 
 
 In the last three months, Sultana and her family members have written emails to external affairs minister  , a letter to the Prime Minister’s Office, Telangana IT minister K Taraka Rama Rao seeking help to bring Taufeeq back. However, there was no response so far. 
 
 Meanwhile, the victim’s family approached the Begumpet police informing about Taufeeq’s conditon and seeking action against Imityaz. “Sub-inspector Nagaraju and Ramchander refused to take our complaint let alone registering an FIR. After several pleas, Imtiyaz was called to the police station. Instead of grilling him, he was given royal treatment and offered a chair, while we, the victims, were made to stand,” Sultana recalled. The Begumpet SI had even directed Sultana to approach the Santosh Nagar police. 
 
 When asked to clarify about the issue, Begumpet inspector G Jagan said he was unaware about the complaint and offered to meet the complainant. “I do not know why the SI did not register an FIR. However, if the victim approaches me, I will definitely take action against the broker, provided, if he is at fault,’’ he added. Sultana and others met the inspector later in the day and Jagan directed Imtiyaz to reprot at the police station on Sunday.
 
