Picture this: You get a mail about an   music gig taking place in a particular part of the city on a select date. You apply to be an   member and keep your fingers crossed till you get another mail telling you if you have been accepted or not. If you are, cheers! A day before the performance, another mail reveals the venue details. But it is only once you get there that you know who will be performing. And more often than not, you are left feeling pleasantly surprised, having listened to musicians that you may have otherwise not been exposed to, meeting several like-minded people and getting to explore a part of the city that you may have not travelled to earlier. This is how one gets to experience   — a global music community that found its way to India close to two years ago, which is run by volunteers, who do not charge audience members for any of their shows.

 Since October 2015, a core team of four youngsters, having an average age of 25 years, have been curating secret   and intimate concerts that are hosted in a range of venues — from living rooms, balconies, terraces, studios, boutiques, garages, someone’s backyard, a lawn and even at a church. Basically, any space that can accommodate musicians and their equipments, and an audience of 20-100 people. People offer to host the gigs, and the audience is allowed to BYOB or even snack during the performance, all of which depends on what the hosts are OK with. Recently, the organizers increased the shows from one to two a month.
 
 
  
 So, how does everything come together?  , one of the core team members, explains, “We are a volunteer-driven community and our shows are completely crowdfunded. Our idea is to show how little it takes to create a magical musical experience — we don’t have the best gear, spaces or acoustics; all you really need is an honest   and audience to make a show. We pass around a jar at the end of each show and encourage people to donate as much as they can. None of us have personally invested in this and our goal is to breakeven. We have good videographers, sound crew and photographers who volunteer their time for us without any pay only because they believe in our idea; money is our smallest worry. We are trying to take music from powerhouses and give it back to the people, that way everyone is involved and responsible for the music scene in the city,” he says.
 
 
  
 This is also why there is a shroud of secrecy around each concert, which, Isaac explains, is not simply for the sake of it. The value for a performance is more when it is a little harder to get in, and Sofar Sound’s idea is to pick people who actually want to listen to artiste and respect the silence that is expected during the show. So, on what basis is the audience picked, considering they pick an average of 40-50 people from the hundreds of applications they receive? “It is completely on a first-come-first-serve basis. Among them, 50% of the people are those who haven’t been to a show before. It’s done through an online portal and we have no say in it. And there is no age limit; we have had people between six and 55 years,” says Isaac.
 
 While the concerts expose city folk to a new experience, it is the artistes that stand to benefit the most. Considering its popularity, many musicians apply to be featured in the concerts, and the core team picks around three for each event based on their votes. Isaac clarifies that there are no biases here either, but they don’t encourage cover bands since there are already several venues for them to perform at. “We try to expose our audience to a genre or musical form that they wouldn’t encounter otherwise on a daily basis. The artistes also have to match the vibe of the venue. We look for people who can use the exposure since we give them a high-quality live recording of the performance that they can later share. We have had many big artistes perform as well, so it’s a good mix. But these are just factors; it’s about curating a whole experience,” says Isaac.
 
