 Hi, I am an engineer and have a girlfriend who is very good in every aspect, but her sexual behaviour is causing problems for me. She is so obsessed with sex that I feel exhausted at night, even at office. I am confused if I should stay with her or leave her? Do I have a valid reason to end this relationship?
 

  Sexual compatibility is a very important part of relationship satisfaction. The difficulty you are facing could be due to incompatibility in sexual desires, dealing with which can get confusing and exhausting.
 Sexual compatibility is perceived when a couple shares sexual beliefs, preferences, desires, and needs with their partner. One of the main sources of sexual incompatibility is the desire difference between partners – where one partner wants more sex than the other. Any chronic desire difference is difficult enough, but when the woman wants more sex, we find ourselves in culturally unexpected circumstances. Our society discourages women from being sexually expressive and assertive. On the other hand, greater desire in men is not only expected but applauded. In reality, women are just as libidinous as men and maybe more so.
 When your experience contradicts the prevalent assumption that women are erotically coy, while men have an insatiable sexual appetite, desire differences feel even more distressing. Inability to keep up with the women sexually may make men feel emasculated too. This mental conflict can also result in feelings of exhaustion, which maybe happening to you.
 From my practice I have found that when a relationship isn't going very well is when the partner's personality, sexual preference and their behavioural preferences become difficult to adapt to. Thus, it maybe a good idea to reflect on whether there is reason to evaluate other aspects of your relationship too.
 If in reality the desire difference is significantly wide, then I would recommend consulting a specialist for signs of hypersexuality. It is a sexual behaviour that can manifest as a delayed response to the neglect, emotional abuse, and other forms of trauma that sometimes occur during childhood. And as they grow up, people maladaptively rely on sexual activity to escape and dissociate from emotional /psychological discomfort because it gives them a temporary sense of control over their early-life trauma. Taking a specialist's opinion would be more recommended here.
 To stay or leave depends on your experience of the desire differences. With time, I have noticed couples find their balance and work out the differences. Taking help from a specialist can resolve these differences effectively, and it works no matter who wants more sex. On whether this is a valid reason to end a relationship – I believe like anything worth having in this life, long-term relationships are hard work. It requires you to be supportive while the other heals, be patient as opposed to making things worst. I would say be good to each other, be patient. If you allow it, love always lives through the challenges.
 
 
 
 
