Theatres owners from six districts in southern Tamil Nadu including Madurai have urged the state government to withdraw the recently introduced entertainment tax and threatened closure from Diwali day if the government does not withdraw it. As many as 60 representatives and   owners attended the emergency meeting conducted by the Madurai-Ramnad Theatre Owners Association in the city on Tuesday evening.

 According to the theatre owners the state government’s decision of levying the new tax of 10 percent would affect them further as they are already doing a lull business. The theatres in Madurai, Ramanathapuram, Sivaganga, Virudhunagar, Dindigul and Theni would be closed down from October 18 in the absence of a positive response. After the implementation of GST theatre owners are paying 18 percent tax if the ticket price is less than Rs 100. The tax goes up to 28 percent for the ticket rates higher than Rs 100.
 
 “Our decision comes at the wake of Coimbatore theatre owners taking similar decision today. The outcome of the meeting has been conveyed to our counterparts in Chennai. A joint meeting by theatres owners association, producers association and distributors association are likely to meet in Chennai in this regard and take a state level decision,” says secretary of Madurai-Ramnad Theatre Owners Association P K M Rajangam.
 
 Talking about the industry scenario Rajangam added that running a theatre is no more a profitable business. The new tax which was announced by the state government on 27th September would be an added burden. It would force them to pay 38 percent inclusive of 28 percent GST towards tax in case the ticket price is above Rs 100.
 
 “People think that the entire ticket amount goes to the pocket of the theatre owners but sadly many do not know that only 30 percent is actually out share, while the rest goes to the distributors. Our share increases only in third and fourth week of a movie, which has become a rare fete,” P K M Rajangam added. 
 
 
