TIRUVANNAMALAI: A love triangle ended in a caste clash that killed a man and grievously injured four others in a village in   district on Sunday evening. M Venkatesan, 33, a   electrician working in a college in Chennai, was killed in the clashes that broke out over a love affair involving two boys, a dalit and  , and a girl. Tension prevailed in Pulirampakkam village.

 Venkatesan’s brother Adi Kesavan, 21, and three others, Ganapathy, Dhayalan and Vijayraj, injured in the clash, are undergoing treatment in various government hospitals. Several houses were ransacked and robbed by vanniyars from Chellapperumpulimedi village, 13 km from Pulirampakkam.
 
 “It was a fallout of a love affair,” deputy inspector general of police of Vellore range V Vanitha told TOI. A boy from Chellaperumpulimedu and a boy from Pulirampakkam dalit colony were in love with a girl from Siruveliyanallur village. The two boys, studying in the Government Boys Higher Secondary School in Cheyyar Town, fought over her.
 
 On Sunday morning, a group of youths from Chellaperumpulimedu went to Chitheri Lake where the dalit youths were playing cricket and assaulted them. Later, a group of 30 to 40 youths and men from Chellaperumpulimedu village, armed with weapons, entered the dalit colony around 5.30pm and ransacked houses, a teashop and damaged vehicles.
 
 They assaulted several people in the colony and kidnapped Venkatesan, an electrician, and his brother Adi Kesavan. They brutally attacked the siblings and dumped them at Mankal Junction, which is about 15 km from the colony, said Venkatesan’s neighbor Ravi. “We went to the spot and admitted them to hospitals,” he said.
 
 Venkatesan died at the GH in Chenglepet at 3 am on Monday, said revenue divisional officer of Cheyyar P Kirubantham. Some of the critically injured were admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital in Chennai.
 
 The news of Venkatesan’s death triggered protest in the village. The staged a blockade on the Cheyyar-Kancheepuram Road, demanding action against those who unleashed violence. Tiruvannamalai superintendent of police R Ponni and senior police officers arrived at the dalit colony to conduct inquiries. Police personnel were deployed in the area to bring the situation under control. By 2 pm, a group of dalit youths stopped a passersby, a vanniyar, and assaulted him in anger. They also set ablaze his motorbike.
 
 Nine residents of Perumpulipakkam had been arrested on charges of murder, rioting and damaging public property, said DIG of Vellore Range V Vanitha. The police are searching for others involved in the clash.
 
 EOM
 
 
