A Parliament question “regarding the influence of vaccine-makers on the immunisation plan“ has raised the issue of funding of the   (IAP), the body representing over 23,000 paediatricians in India. A look at its finances shows just how dependent the IAP is on funding from the pharma industry , especially vaccine manufacturers.

 Most of the industry funding comes as sponsorship for IAP's annual conference,  , and funding for the association's activities under the Presidential Action Plan.
 
 In 2016, IAP earned Rs 5.5 crore, of which almost 30% was combined income from Pedicon (55 lakh) and the Action Plan (Rs 1.1 crore). Pedicon's share is usually much larger, touching Rs 93 lakh and Rs 94 lakh in 2013 and 2014 respectively , including the bidding charge of Rs 15 lakh that the organising branch has to pay the central IAP (CIAP).
 
 The growing dependence on industry was raised by IAP treasurer Pravin J Mehta in the 2013 annual report when he said: “Our expenditure per year is approximately 2.77 crores. Our fixed income... is approximately 1.77 crores. That means every year we are dependent on variable income of rupees one crore...Major chunk of this variable income is from Pedicon. This means that in unforeseen circumstances of Pedicon not doing well financially, it will be difficult to match income with rising expenditure.“
 
 The “lead sponsor“ of Pedicon 2017 held in Bengaluru in January this year was Bharat Biotech, a leading vaccine company. According to the brochure, platinum sponsorship was Rs 5 crore. So was Bharat Biotech the platinum sponsor? Dr Govindaraj M, the chief organising chair man, claims he does not know. Other vaccine companies like Wyeth and Sanofi too got prominent mention at the venue, which could mean that they were diamond (Rs 4 crore), gold (Rs 3 crore) or silver (Rs 2 crore) sponsors. Judging by the sponsorship brochure, this conference could have raked in over Rs 15 crore.
 
 Pedicon is supposed to be an academic conference, but the discussions regarding it seem to revolve primarily around the revenue it generates and sharing of the profits between the central IAP and the organising branch in a 30:70 ratio. The profits generated by some Pedicons have been over Rs 3 crore.
 
 IAP's 2015 annual report talks about the escalating costs of the annual conference with per delegate costs rising from Rs 10,000 for four days to over Rs 20,000 in the past three years. Total expenses had more than doubled from about Rs 4.5 crore in 2010 to over Rs 9 crore by 2014.
 
 The report noted that IAP had no mechanism for oversight of expenses and though the income from the conference has continued to rise, profits had remained almost static. There was a suggestion that the IAP should take complete charge of Pedicon finances. But that is being resisted.
 
 In a critical note in the annual report, Dhananjay Shah, founder convenor of the first finance committee, wrote: “Pedicon organisers have been kindly making luxurious arrangements for the 50 odd group of newly elected EB members who are provided a five-star accommodation at a luxurious hotel for full five days during their Pedicon as an expense item of the Pedicon. The EB meeting is actually a CIAP (central IAP) function and has nothing to do with the Pedicon event.“
 
 He also warned that the money available in IAP coffers could be an “attractive bait for those with evil designs“ and that candidates were already spending sums of even Rs 50 lakh “to win the presidential crown“. IAP's academic role “will take a severe beating and thrashing“, he apprehended.
 
 Gala cultural evenings and bar nights push up the cost of these so-called academic conferences. However these are not unique to IAP. Almost all doctors' associations organise these lavish sponsored conferences ostensibly to educate doctors. From the annual conference of national associations of specific specialties, to those organised by state or city branches, all are funded by pharma companies that shell out crores to oblige the doctors.
 
 In 2014, the IAP alone had 27 state branches and 314 city district branches. The Cardiology Society of India has 26 state branches, not including the sub-specialty councils. Doctors insist they are never influenced by the generosity of these companies, but that begs the question of why for-profit companies would spend crores without expecting returns in the form of 'prescription support' from the doctors.
 
