CHENNAI: Decks have been cleared to revive the stalled 19km  , with the   issuing a   for the realignment recommended by a   set up to look into the concerns raised by the state. The Jayalalithaa government stalled the project in 2011citing environmental issues.

 Revival of the project, initiated by the UPA government, came in after much persuasion from the Centre. Union minister of state for road transport Pon Radhakrishnan told TOI recently that the project cost had doubled from the original estimate of `1,815 crore, and a study was also being undertaken for extension of the project by another 10 km. Interestingly, the day when chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami took a flight to New Delhi to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the highways department, headed by him, issued the certificate to the NHAI.
 
 “We have received the order from the state for realignment on Tuesday . The plan has been modified to take the alignment to the edge of Cooum river, rather than the bed itself, which was objected to by the state,“ said a senior NHAI official. The committee comprising members from state highways, PWD, IIT-M, NHAI, be sides a consultant on bridges finalized the realignment after three sittings. This was after Palaniswami held talks with Union minister for road transport and highways, shipping, Nitin Gadkari in March.
 
 According to NHAI sources, the agency will embark on a new feasibility study. “Based on the report, a new tender will be floated for construction of the four-lane elevated corridor.We hope to restart the work in six months preferably by this year-end,“ the official said.The project will now have to cross metro rail alignment in Koyambedu before reaching Maduravoyal. While 7,400 families were estimated as being affected, the new study will finalize the exact number.
 
 On the state's suggestions, the NHAI plans to have single column, instead of twin column piers. In the existing two column piers in the river, mitigation measures as suggested by the state PWD will be taken up, the officials said. More than 130 columns were built between Maduravoyal and Chetpet before the work was stalled by the J Jayalalithaa government. A total of `500 crore had been spentby then. This time, the NHAI is firm on getting a “state support agreement“ to carry on with the project without any impediments arising out of a change in regime.
 
 
