MANGALURU:   district administration will organise a workshop of stakeholders on October 3 to discuss about ‘Nava Karnataka 2025’ (Vision 2025), a long-term comprehensive development plan which the state government has planned to implement in next seven years.

 Representatives from various sectors including experts, students, farmers, NGOs, people’s representatives, cooperatives, senior citizens, physically challenged and religious leaders will be taking part in the meeting which will be chaired by  , Principal Secretary to Chief Minister. The meet will discuss about the preparation of a Vision 2025 for the comprehensive development of Dakshina Kannada district based on the opinions of all stakeholders.
 
 A release from   stated that the meeting will gather information from all sections of the society for the preparation of Vision 2025 for the district. The Vision 2025 will be a prelude to needs of stakeholders in various sectors of the society. The document will be ready by the end of December this year. This vision document to be prepared at the district level will be the foundation for the Nava Karnataka 2025 that will be done at the state level.
 
 The main focus of Vision 2025 will be the development of region with special emphasis on its culture and topography. The vision document will be prepared with 13 fileds including agriculture, infrastructure, job creation, industry, rural development, social justice, urban development, education, health, law and order, information technology, services and administration as its foundation. The district administration has set up committees for each field.
 
 The meet will provide platform for stakeholders to interact and express their opinion with regard to issues and steps needed to set right such problems in their respective fields. In the meantime, citizens also may submit in writing their opinion regarding development to the district administration. Tushar Giri Nath will inaugurate the meeting at 10.30am on October 3.
 
