CHANDIGARH/JALANDHAR: Revolt in   ahead of February 4 polls came to the fore on Tuesday after its state chief and Union minister   had to issue a public statement saying that he has not resigned from the post over choice of candidates.

 Sampla's reaction came within hours after he reached Delhi to meet party president   following speculations that he had threatened to quit over the selection of two candidates in Doaba region.
 
 “I was occupied with a special poll mission due to which I wasn't in contact with media and some of my friends. Some people used this to spread rumours that I had resigned from the party .Everything is fine in the par ty,“ he told TOI.
 
 Trouble has been brewing in the BJP, which contests 23 out of 117 seats in alliance with Shiromani Akali Dal, over selection of some Dalit candidates in key Doaba region in a state which has 33% Scheduled Caste population.
 
 Sourced in BJP said Sampla was unhappy with the candidature of Som Prakash from Phagwara and Mohindra Bhagat from Jalandhar West, both are reserved constituencies for Scheduled Castes.
 
 Though both Sampla and Som Prakash are from the same Ravidasia community , the Union minister has expressed unhappiness over complaints against Som Prakash for “ordering FIRs against many voters in the past five years“. Sampla was backing one Mohan Lal in place of Som Parkash and Sheetal Anugral instead of Bhagat. A senior party source said, “Sampla felt that since there were allegations against Prakash, he could have been replaced by someone else.“
 
 BJP largely fights on urban seats in areas of Doaba, Jalandhar and Majha, many of which are strongholds of Dalits. A weak saffron party would be an ideal platform for the   (AAP) to gain traction.
 
 Even in general seats like Amritsar Central, Hoshiarpur and Jalandhar Central, where BJP has fielded Tarun Chugh, Tikshan Sood and Manoranjan Kalia respectively , Sampla had disagreements.
 
 The party waited till the last moment to decide on four ministers -Anil Joshi, Chunni Lal Bhagat, Madan Mittal and Surjeet Jyani -who enjoyed ties with Sampla's predecessor Kamal Sharma. Of them, Mittal and Bhagat were dropped. But, Bhagat's son Mohindra was finally accommodated, annoying Sampla. Joshi even went to file his papers before his name was announced.
 
