HYDERABAD: Come February, the city will see   or Any Time Water units come up across the city. The machines, that dispense water the way ATMs dispense cash, are to come up initially at 50 locations decided by the  . This figure will be raised to 250 in the months that follow. 

 The Municipal Administration and   (MA&UD) department has okayed a proposal from a private agency, Josab India Pvt Ltd, to provide round-the-clock pure and safe drinking water to people through the ATWs. While the Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB) provides water to the agency for treatment, the GHMC will provide other support such as space at identified locations as well as associated infrastructure.
 
 “The locations were identified keeping in mind areas that suffer from inadequate water supply and have floating populations. The ATWs will become operational in some areas from February and the number of water ATMs will be increased to 250 about two months after that,” Mayor Bonthu Rammohan told TOI.
 
 The government plans to provide treated and safe drinking water at Rs 1 per litre while the market price of bottled water is about Rs 20 per litre.
 
 Officials said this is one of the solutions to provide safe and cost-effective drinking water. The ATW locations identified GHMC include areas in and around Gandhi Hospital, Osmania General Hospital, JNTU-Kukatpally,   offices, railway stations, Jubilee Bus Station and Mahatma Gandhi Bus Station that witness large volumes of floating populations.
 
 “Though the government increased water supply to 372 million gallons per day (MGD) for the city, many of the areas do not get adequate water and even when they do so, it is contaminated due to leakages and sewage seeping into the drinking water pipeline system. There have been instances in the past where people lost their lives as a result of consuming contaminated water in places such as Bholakpur. In some Old City areas, diarrhoea is a common phenomenon because of contaminated water supply,” a senior official of MA&UD department said.
 
 A study by National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI) in 2012 that studied random samples of drinking water collected across the city found that water supplied from Himayathsagar and Osmansagar were acidic beyond permissible limits. The study also found algae and traces of pesticides in the samples.
 
 GHMC had earlier planned to set up Reverse Osmosis (RO) plants at 400 locations, especially in slums, but could not go ahead due to budgetary considerations.
 
 Officials said Josab India Pvt Ltd has undertaken a similar project in Kerala and will also provide water in rural areas. “The company uses Zeolite (a mineral) based technology and the advantage is there will be zero waste of water, low maintenance cost, no usage of chemicals and above all zeolite is natural mineral,” B Dinesh Reddy, local representative of Josab India, who is overseeing the project told TOI. 
 
