LUCKNOW: Attempting to forge a strong bond send strong message to the voters in the poll-bound Uttar Pradesh, nearly half-a-dozen parties owing their allegiance to the Left ideology for the first time have decided to contest UP   together.

 The six parties, which constitute the Left Front in this assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh are: Communist Party of India, Communist Party of India (Marxist), Communist Party of India (Marxist-Leninist) (Liberation), Socialist Unity Centre of India (Communist), All India Forward Bloc and Revolutionary Socialist Party.
 
 As many as 5 out of the 6 constituents (barring Revolutionary Socialist Party) finalized and declared their first list of 105 assembly constituencies from where they would be fielding their candidates. So far, names of as many as 93 candidates have been declared. Communist Party of India leads the tally with as many as 58 candidates, followed by CPI-M, which is fielding 18 candidates. CPI (ML) has declared 17 candidates.
 
 All India Forward Bloc and SUCI(C) on 7 and 5 assembly seats respectively. Both are yet to declare the names of their candidates.
 
 District-wise, the Front would be fielding in all the four assembky constituencies of Sonbhadra district (Ghorawal, Duddhi, Obra and Robertsganj). From Azamgarh, as many as 6 candidates of CPI are in the poll fray.
 
 State secretary of CPI-M Heerlal Yadav told TOI, “In coming days, we would be releasing the second list of candidates. In all, we would be contesting on 140 assembly seats in the state. This is for the first time that 6 parties owing their allegiance to the Left ideology are contesting the UP assembly elections together.”
 
 He further stated that after Emergency, CPI and CPIM contested elections together in UP.
 
 “The only viable alternate to the BJP is the Left Front, which has always been opposing its anti-people policies. The BJP has a history of fomenting communal venom in the state, and it is only the Left Front, which could actually halt it,” Yadav said, and alleged that even the Congress is no different from the BJP, when it comes to ‘so-called developmental policies’.
 
 Demonetisation would also figure prominently in the agenda of the Left parties during the assembly elections, apart from the basic issues related to farmers, contractual employees, pensioners and others.
 
 Taking a dig at the ruling Samajwadi Party and Bahujan Samaj Party, Yadav said, “Owing to the similar policies of successive government in UP (headed by SP and BSP), there have been a significant increase in number of attacks people’s right to food, land, employment and life.”
 
 
