Collaborative arts often foster curiosity, more so if the project involves nuances of two different countries that are equally vibrant in terms of culture and talent. Working along those lines, the Tadpole Repertory, a Delhi-based theatre collective, joined forces with Tokyo-based performing arts group Hanchu-Yuei to present 
 . Staged in Bengaluru recently, the plot of this new play is “set in a city not far from yours”, encompassing the lives of six strangers who "confront themselves and each other, seeking out their place and purpose”. 
According to director  , the theme of the play travels between genres, touching upon comedy and melancholy. "It is the story of six unique characters, who grapple with hunger and sickness, love and solitude. Crafted on the short-story structure, the dramatic piece follows the life of six individuals through their shadowy pasts and the foggy present.” The characters come from different backgrounds and deal with distinctive preoccupations and paradoxes. “In today’s digitally advanced world, people stay connected all the time, yet every individual is lonely and in some cases distressed. They cannot seem to escape it, and must try anything they can to bear it,” says Neel, further describing the underlying theme of the play. 
 A presentation of the   Foundation, this 70-minute play was created following conversations and deliberations of over two years, with special focus on the visual language, background score and digital aesthetics. It forms part of an India-Japan friendship project. 
 Speaking about future collaborations, co-director of the play   says, “Yes, I do look forward to having more conversations and collaborations in the near future. I feel Japanese perspectives toward India is somewhat biased or not really true. We hardly know about this country. There are things about India on news channels, but it's only the extreme things which the media seem to find peculiar and funny. However in reality, a lot more is happening here. There are many things to learn and many things in common with the Japanese. Through this collaboration, we would like to tell more about India to the people of our country.”
 In terms of tastes and preferences, Yamamoto feels that in India, the audience might still favour the presence of classic elements in modern works, whereas in Japan, contemporary performances are received better.
 The cast of the multilingual play includes actors Ayana Shiibashi, Bikram Ghosh, Kan Fukuhara, Mikie Tanaka, Piyush Kumar and Shaik Sheeba.
 
