20-year-old college student K Keerthana recently committed suicide by hanging herself at her house in Tirupur. When police searched her house, they found two suicide notes that blamed her   friend Mohammed Thakeer for the extreme step. Reason? Thakeer had threatened to upload their phone conversations and photos online. Though Thakeer has been arrested for abetment of suicide, the pertinent question to be asked is why is social media increasingly being used for blackmail and how do users, especially women, deal with such situations?

 
 
 SN Ravichandran, member of Cyber Society of India points out, “Firstly, women shouldn’t assume that they are always at fault and stop considering themselves the victim. They should first get the guilt out of their head and immediately lodge a police complaint, when they are threatened.” Psychiatrist and director of a suicide prevention hotline in the city, Dr D Srinivasan, elucidates that such impulsive decisions also show the rising intolerance among youngsters. “Today’s youngsters are living in a world where they want everything to happen instantly. They probably do not have good role models as well, who have faced adversities and have come out of them successfully. In some cases, they also lack a good set of friends with whom they could discuss such issues.”
 
 
 
 Sociologist N Thirugnanasambandham explains that adolescents and youngsters face tremendous stress during the transition phase to adulthood and are constantly under pressure. “All Keerthana had to do was discuss the issue with her   or caution the boy that she would file a police complaint on the same. But, we live in a society where a woman’s morals hold more weightage than the woman herself. Hence, they are not encouraged to take bold decisions. The social conditioning among women is such that they resist talking about it. However, men do not undergo such issues. It clearly shows the double-standards in the society. Moreover, social media and technology have become status symbols among youngsters. They have to be used wisely.” G Radhikaa, parent of two daughters, tells us that women should not accept friend requests from people they do not know. "Isn't that the simplest way to avoid such issues? Why invite trouble? I have also advsied my daughters to avoid interacting with strangers on any social media."
 
 
 
 “It’s essential for parents to create an environment at home, where their children are encouraged to talk to their parents and discuss every issue under the sun. And, this has to start at an early age. This will open up channels to discuss grave issues like child abuse and suicidal tendencies as well; and will boost the confidence of the children. Also, when children bring up such issues at home, parents shouldn’t immediately jump the guns, point out the mistakes made by their children and end up advising them. They should also avoid being judgmental and should sit together and explore options, discuss the merits and demerits of a path taken. It’s the parent’s responsibility to provide a coping mechanism, especially when it comes to subject of ‘morality’, which they hesitate to discuss. It’s also advisable to have few good friends, with whom you can discuss grave issues. The last option is to meet a counselor,” says Srinivasan.
 
 Seconding him is Thirugnanasambandham, “Parents should also realize that no one is perfect and their children too are bound to make mistakes. But, at the same time, they should keep an eye on their children and their friends; and correct them when wrong. They should also ensure that their children do not succumb to peer pressure, when it comes to owning a gadget or making their presence on social media.”
 
 
 “Whenever you come across a situation where you feel you are threatened, harassed or stalked; immediately report it to the police. Collect every detail of the conversation and submit it to the cops. There is also a provision on Facebook, where you can report such incidents. Most of the women, avoid complaining to the police as they are reluctant to answer certain queries. But, with immediate action, the case will take its natural end. One can also opt for an out of court settlement," says Sivachandran.
 
 He adds, “It’s advisable to avoid posting personal pictures on Facebook. This is also applicable to parents, who post their babies and children’s pictures on social media. With pedophiles lurking all over the internet, it’s better to play it safe. With Section 66A of the Information Technology Act also quashed, the only sections where such issues can be addressed are 354 C and D of the Indian Penal Code. And most importantly, men should also understand that when a woman says no, it’s a no.”
 
