MYSURU: In an expression of solidarity with the protesters in Tamil Nadu who are demanding that the ban on   be lifted, Tamilians working in Mysuru staged a demonstration in front of the deputy commissioner's office here on Friday.
Following the demonstration, which lasted a few hours, the protesters submitted a memorandum, wherein they reiterated their support for jallikattu, to the DC.
 
 Purushottam, who works at an IT firm in the city, said that the bull taming sport was an integral part of Tamil culture. “Cattle are of immense importance to the farming community. Jallikattu doesn't involve harming the bull. There are many methods that are employed in the sport, none of which is harmful.The government should not disturb a traditional practice that has been going on for centuries together. The   should intervene and scrap the ban,“ he added.
 
 Purushottam said that contrary to what the People for The Ethical treatment of Animals was claiming, the bull was not a wild animal.“They are misguiding the people, and the legal experts. The govern ment should bring an ordinance and allow Jallikattu to be held,“ he said.
 
 Another protester, Kameshwaran said that Pongal festivities would remain incomplete without holding jallikattu. “It is an essential cultural practice, and it should be allowed to continue. The Centre must intervene, and submit an affidavit to the apex court, to allow the sport to be held,“ he said.
 
 Train traffic between B'luru, Chennai disrupted
 
 Train traffic between Bengaluru and Chennai was disrupted, and three long distance trains were diverted via Pakala and Renigunta routes due to jalikattu protests in Tamil Nadu on Friday, South Western Railway announced. Lalbagh and Shatabdi express trains that departed from Bengaluru were terminated at Katpadi, while the double-decker train from Chennai bound for Bengaluru, and   were cancelled.
 
 The Yeshwantpur-Howrah, Sanghamitra (Patna) and   trains from Bengaluru were diverted via Pakala and Renigunta.These trains take the Katpadi-Chennai route. KSR-Kakinada Sheshadri Express has been rescheduled and will leave Bengaluru at 10.40pm instead of 11am.The Bengaluru-Chennai Brindavan Express that was rescheduled to leave at 10pm was cancelled. However, KSRTC bus services between the two states remained unaffected.
 
