NAWADA: Tension prevailed in   as two groups clashed after cut-out of Lord Ram was found damaged on Tuesday, day before  . Police had to fire five rounds in the air to disperse the warring mobs.

 Police said the two groups fought a pitched battle on NH 31 near Bhadauni, a minority dominated locality, in which several people were injured. A few shops were also set ablaze by unidentified miscreants.
 
 Magadh range DIG Saurabh Kumar, Nawada DM Manoj Kumar and SP Vikash Burman along with forces were camping at the site till reports last came in. “Adequate forces have been deployed and the situation is well under control now,” said the DIG. 
 
 Union minister Giriraj Singh, who is also the local MP, rushed to Nawada. Much to the embarrassment of the DM, the minister dared the mob to throw one single stone at him. “I will sacrifice every drop of my blood to protect my community,” he said while the officials and forces looked on.
 
 The trouble started at Sadbhavna Chowk, where a huge cut-out of Lord Ram has been put up on the occasion of Ram Navami. The cutout was found broken again on Tuesday morning despite a peace meeting organized by Bundelkhand police station a few hours earlier on the police station’s premises.
 
 Sadbhavna Chowk, incidentally, is a busy intersection on the NH 31 named thus by former Nawada DM S Vijayalaxmi and SP J S Gangwar over a decade ago to symbolise communal harmony. On Tuesday, the NH was littered with stones while hundreds of vehicles were stranded on the busy highway connecting Bihar and  .
 
 The area witnessed communal violence in August 2013 also, in which two youths were killed. Normalcy could then be restored only after curfew was imposed for four days. 
 
 Meanwhile, former JD (U) MLA from Govindpur Kaushal Yadav accused Giriraj of adding fuel to the communal fire by allegedly calling upon   activists to teach a lesson to “anti-national” elements in the minority community. “Crores of Biharis are secular and they will thwart any move to saffronize Bihar,” Yadav said. 
 
