NEW DELHI: Sacked Delhi minister   on Tuesday alleged that a company owned by health minister   had received Rs 16 crore through hawala transactions. “One of Jain’s companies declared Rs 16 crore in black money under the central government’s income declaration scheme last year. The firm had accepted that it received the money through hawala,” Mishra said at a press conference on Tuesday.

 Questioning the CM’s “silence” on the “links between AAP’s donations and hawala”, he suggested that AAP national convener should change his name to Arvind ‘Hawala’ Kejriwal.
 
 “Even though his company accepted in writing that it had received Rs 16 crore through hawala transactions, Kejriwal says Satyendar Jain is honest,” said Mishra, who has been targeting Jain ever since he was sacked from Kejriwal’s cabinet. “Kejriwal has said that he has checked all the documents. I want to ask Kejriwal whether he has checked this paper (Jain’s company declaring Rs 16 crore) or this document was concealed from him.” 
 
 Countering AAP functionary Sanjay Singh’s remarks that allegations about his links with a company involved in the Rs 400-crore high-security numberplate scam were false, Mishra said he had evidence of the links. He held up a bundle of documents, which he submitted to ACB that is probing the scam.
 
 “I have a report of the committee formed by the AAP government in its first stint. It gave an eight-point recommendation. The committee said that the numberplates were of sub-standard quality, the contract of the company should be revoked and the supply of the numberplates should be stopped immediately,” Mishra claimed.
 
 In an earlier allegation, Mishra had said that the Russia tour of senior party functionaries—Sanjay Singh and Ashutosh—was funded by a businessman linked to numberplate scam. 
 
 One of Jain’s aide’s refuted these allegations, saying they were false. “The same allegations were raised during the Punjab elections. Jain will not react if old allegations are repeated time and again,” the aide said. Jain did not reply to a text sent by TOI. 
 
 
