Gurgaon:   came to a standstill for more than three hours on the Delhi-Jaipur highway on Friday due to an accident involving an   and a  .

 The accident happened around 11.30 am near Haldiram’s restaurant, which is a kilometre from   toll plaza on NH-8. 
 
 A white Audi was in the middle lane of the three-lane stretch. While making way for another car, the Audi was hit by a truck. The truck driver immediatly sped away after hitting the car. The Audi driver was fortunately unhurt. But all four wheels of the car got jammed and it couldn’t be moved. As a result, the Audi was stranded in the middle of the road, which obstructed traffic movement on the highway. 
 
 Traffic police received the information around 11.40 am and soon rushed to the spot. Police and the highway contractor Skylark Securitas Private Limited arranged for a hydraulic crane to remove the car, which had by then formed a three-kilometre-long tailback till Narsinghpur.
 
 After the car reached the spot, the car’s owner refused to let the crane remove the car, citing that the vehicle could be damaged in the process.
 
 “The owner booked for his own recovery vehicle and it was around 12:45 pm that the car was shifted to the slow lane on the left side of the road. But by then traffic snarl had reached Hero Honda Chowk and the commuters faced great difficulty and inconvenience,” said Col Subhash Yadav, head, incident management at Skylark Securitas Private Limited.
 
 Commuters were frustrated as they were stranded on the expressway for hours.
 
 “It usually takes 20 to 30 minutes to cross the toll plaza. Today it took around one and a half hours to reach the toll plaza. Probably, I should acquire a hobby so that I can pass off time while waiting in a traffic because that duration is constantly increasing,” said Sehar Khanum, a marketing executive.
 
 As the blockage was cleared, hundreds of vehicles rushed towards the Kherki Daula toll plaza. Fearing congestion at the plaza, cops allowed a free passage till 2pm so that the snarl could clear. The normal movement was restored only after 2:30 pm.
 
 
