TRICHY: As the ordinance seeking exemption for the state from the   awaits presidential nod, several state board students nursing an MBBS dream seem to have opted out of the race believing that it is a tall order for them. They feel that lack of a standardised syllabus as well as access to a regimented professional coaching put them at a definite disadvantage.

 Among the toppers in the 10th board examination with 495 marks out of 500, M Vennila is an MBBS aspirant. She was confident of improving her performance in 12th board examination this year but is skeptical whether her MBBS dreams will materialise. She has chosen not to apply for   and counts on the hope given by the state government of securing exemption for the state this year as well.
 
 “I am just hoping that the uncertainty over NEET doesn’t affect Vennila’s board examination results as she seems to be really worried these days,” says her equally concerned mother Radhika. Hailing from a Dalit community, she says she could not afford to send her ward to a professional coaching centre. Her apprehensions also arise out of the failure of a relative’s son who could not clear All India Pre Medical Test (AIPMT) a couple of years ago. “Since the CBSE syllabus is entirely different from that of the state board, it is unlikely that our students would clear NEET which is based on CBSE,” says Radhika. 
 
 “Lack of standardised syllabus across the country is now putting meritorious students in the state in trouble,” says Jayalakshmi, mother of another medical aspirant who scored 490 out of 500 in the tenth board examination. A teacher by profession, she chose to get her daughter Niranjana to apply for NEET to keep options open. She has also planned to send her daughter for a crash course after the board examination. Though hopeful but not very confident of a possible postponement of NEET this year, Jayalakshmi has started well to get her daughter prepare for the test. She is busy collecting CBSE books and study material as well as doing google search. 
 
 While calling the union government’s NEET move highly irresponsible, secretary of Common School System, Prince  , said that there was every possibility of the   turning down the state government’s move to defer the test. “If that happens, we will seek a judicial probe into the quality of tribal and adi dravida schools across the state to ascertain whether they are capable of competing with students from schools like  ,” he said. He claimed that NEET was a discrepancy since there was no equitable access to learning atmosphere. 
 
  (TNPGTA) district president Kumaravel says the education system is to blame for the present problems. “We are not giving importance to 11th standard syllabus. Moreover, we complete the 12th syllabus within 5 months which otherwise should be completed in 8-9 months. While government is also stressing on marks than concept-based learning, how can we ensure quality in our students,” he says.
 
 Meanwhile, state officials involved in MBBS admissions are keeping their fingers as much crossed as the students. “Medical aspirants in Tamil Nadu will benefit if NEET is deferred this year as well. Though the state government is trying its best, we are yet to know about the status of NEET,” says Secretary, MBBS selection committee, Directorate of Medical Education, Dr Selvaraj.
 
