KOCHI: Archaeological Survey of India (ASI), Kerala, has written to the   and the   to stop work at  , where a portion of the ground is being raised for  .ASI said that the main reason for waterlogging at St Francis Church, monument protected by ASI, is due to the construction activity by the department at parade ground.

 “The original ground level outside the church compound was raised considerably by changing the natural gradient and the construction of dwarf wall with grill fencing, causing obstruction to the free flow of rainwater towards south,“ ASI said in its letter to the government. Smitha Sumathy, superinten ding archaeologist in-charge, ASI Kerala said that increasing the road level in front of the St Francis Church during periodical maintenance and asphalt work by the corporation and absence of proper drainage system around the church complex also contributed to the grave situation.
 
 The work is a gross violation of ASI norms which stipulates that areas up to 100m and 200m around the structure are prohibited and regulated. Violating norm is punishable with imprisonment up to two year andor fine of Rs 100,000. Conservation experts said that the work has defaced the land's rich heritage. The recent heavy showers flooded St Francis Church, one of the few protected monuments under ASI.
 
 While tourism department initiated construction activities, stop notice was issued by ASI, Thrissur circle in February , objecting construction activities. The issue was brought to the notice of the district collector as well, and a police complaint was made by chief archaeologist of Kochi sub-circle.
 
 Convener of Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage (INTACH) K J Sohan said the ground, which is being raised with a mud-based mixture, will se verely affect the water holding capacity of the land and the water table of the region.
 
 “The ground where Portuguese, Dutch and British colonists conducted their military parades and drills is being destroyed for the sake of a five or six day practice, by raising it with mud. An open ground ­ which is reminiscent of the European era with a town square ­ and heritage buildings surrounding it is being fenced, illegally, from public access.
 
 They have built a deep drain within it, but the drains leading to the sea cannot be deepened accordingly , which will lead to severe waterlogging during showers, flooding and swamping the area,“ Sohan said. However, A P M Mohammed Hanish, nodal officer for the preparations for the global tournament in Kochi said that the church and its surrounding area used to get waterlogged even before the Fifa U-17 World Cup preparations at the Parade Ground.
 
 “The land had been allotted as practice ground for Fifa U-17 World Cup by the government and necessary preparations are progressing in Fort Kochi. The preparation for the World Cup has to be conducted. A portion of the ground that separates the church and the practice ground has been left untouched. Any remedial measures, if needed, will be done in consultation with the ASI in future,“ Hanish said.
 
