MUMBAI:   resident Shyam Potnis regularly travels to   for a medical check-up. While earlier he used to travel by train till Parel, nowadays he alights at   and takes a taxi from there. “I avoid   station as its foot over-br-idge is very crowded,” he says.

 This seems to be true for scores of Mumbaikars who visit the  . The average number of originating passengers—those buying tickets, including season pass holders—at Elphinstone Road-Parel has seen a decline from a peak of 1.14 lakh per day in 2012-13 to 1.02 lakh now, data from the WR and CR show. Railway officials suspect overcrowding may have been the reason for people avoiding these stations in favour of Dadar or aggregator cabs besides shifting of residents of the former mill areas to the suburbs. The daily footfall at at Elphinstone Road-Parel, however, stands at 3-3.5 lakh.
 
 Before that, there was an increase in  . At Parel, the daily average touched 30,238 in 2012-13, from 17,000 in 2007-08—almost 78% rise. Elphinstone Road saw a 30% increase— from 64,714 in 2007-08 to 84,386 in 2012-13.
 
 A senior railway official said, “Since 2012-13, the number has gradually come down. We do not know the actual reason, but it could because of proliferation of aggregator cabs. Another reason could be that people want to avoid these two stations because of over-crowding.”
 
 Another senior official said, “It could be because residential areas are shifting from central Mumbai to places like Virar, Nalasopara, Dombivli and even Ambernath. And most people buy tickets and passes at stations near home. The old chawls have made way for highrises and the residents there are unlikely to travel by train.”
 
 Also, a large number of commuters alight at these stations to travel to KEM,   and Wadia hospitals or to reach their offices that have come up on the mill land in the area. A significant number of those using these stations are also employed in  . Transportation planner  , a resident of Elphinstone Road, said, “The station is a 10-minute walk from my home. However, I prefer to go to Dadar in case I have to take a train.”
 
 Another official said, “Whatever be the reasons, both these stations are small in size compared to the number of footfall it witnesses. No doubt, we will have to build the Foot Over Bridges (FOB) to cater to this demand.”
 
 
