PUNE: The three-week stalemate over dumping of waste generated by the city ended on Sunday after CM Devendra   assured the agitating villagers of Uruli and Phursungi that a comprehensive action plan to deal with the issue will be prepared within a month.
Following this, Uruli and Phursungi village action committee leaders Amol Harpale and Tatya Bhadale declared that the stir stands called off.
 
 “The proposed action plan will focus on measures to treat and process garbage, capping provision at the landfill sites, long-term solutions and how to process waste within the city ,“ the CM told the villagers during ameeting at the Bibvewadi civic ward office. The plan will be jointly prepared by the PMC and the state government, he said.
 
 Fadnavis, who was here to attend a marriage, took time off his schedule for an hour-long meeting to find a solution to the agitation. Ever since the villagers launched the agitation, heaps of garbage have been accumulating at various spots across the city . At many places, garbage was being burnt and this further caused issues such as electric cable wires getting damaged and power outages.
 
 Earlier in the day , Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) MP Supriya Sule and Chetan Tupe, leader of opposition in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), called on Fadnavis at his official residence in Mumbai and sought his intervention.
 
 “I congratulate the CM for intervening and calling a meeting on the villagers' issues.Even during the 22 days of agitation, no one met the villagers for discussions,“ said Sule.
 
 Fadnavis said an all-party meeting will be convened and the proposed action plan will be tabled before it for final discussions and actions in consultation with the village body officebearers and the local residents.
 
 On the regularisation of the project-affected people from Uruli and Phursungi, who are currently working with the PMC on a temporary basis, the CM said the civic administration should send him a proposal and the government would take a decision on it within a month.
 
 He added that the government would take a decision on returning land acquired from the project-affected people in line with the   ruling on the issue. “The state government is committed to returning land to some extent to those from whom it had acquired the plots,“ the CM said.
 
 Over the last three weeks, municipal commissioner   and mayor Mukta Tilak had met the agitating villagers several times for discussions, but in vain. Sule, too, had joined the agitation, demanding an early resolution of the situation.  's Purandar MLA, Vijay Shivtare had tried to resolve the matter.
 
 Urali sarpanch Geeta Bankar said, “The civic administration must take the villagers' views. They will start the agitation if it doesn't take them into confidence.“
 
 Two weeks ago, Tilak and some other office-bearers of the PMC had called on Fadnavis during the BJP's convention in Pimpri. The CM had then asked them to try find a solution through talks. Barring the BJP , most other parties, such as the NCP , Congress and the  , had joined the agitation and had targeted district guardian minister   and Tilak for the situation. They even questioned Bapat and Tilak's foreign visits in the midst of the garbage crisis.
 
