GHAZIPUR: There is nothing exceptional about Usia, a   village on   and only a handful who have lived here for decades know its unique distinction—that the founder of  , actor and screenwriter   belonged to this village. As elections drew near, a huge gate was erected in his name in February by six-time MLA and tourism minister Om Prakash Singh and though the 13,500 voters could see in it a Muslim appeasement bid, they were happy for the recognition, nevertheless. Most residents, however, still do not know how a chance meeting of Husain with President Rajendra Prasad led to the concept of making Bhojpuri films. 

 “Nazir sahib was associated with film director Bimal Roy who give him a break and once during a shoot, President Rajendra Prasad visited the set,” Misbahuddin Khan (63), son-in-law of the late actor told TOI, adding, “The President being a Bhojpuri speaking person too asked why weren’t movies being made in the language of culturally rich and highly populated Eastern UP belt. The idea struck Nazir sahib and later, he made the first and most famous Bhojpuri film Ganga Maiya Tohe Piyari Chadhaibo. Today, it is a Rs 2,000-crore industry and Bhojpuri films are watched all over the world by those who speak and regard the language, but the cinema is unfortunately, associated more with vulgarity and ribald song and dance.” 
 
 Nazir Husain was an acclaimed actor who went on to play significant roles in several issue-based social dramas like Do Bigha Zameen, Devdas, Naya Daur, Musafir and more, major part of his repertoire being the Bimal Roy classics. His debut film Pehla Aadmi was developed from a play in which Husain had performed earlier, informed Khan. 
 
 “Nazir sahab was highly influenced by Subhas Chandra Bose and served his Indian National Army as a propaganda in charge,” said the son-in-law. “Part of his job was to stage street and stage plays and during a performance he met someone who sent him with a letter of reference to Bimal Roy. The director initially accommodated him in his flat in Malad, Mumbai and later left it to him. Nazir sahab featured in a number of his films and later became a known face as a character artist in mainstream cinema till he died at the age of 65 in 1987. But his biggest distinction is as ‘Pitamah of Bhojpuri films’ (founder father of Bhojpuri cinema), giving classics like Hamar Sansar. The government should finance such clean and wholesome projects in the present day,” said Khan.
 
 About the gate that came up in the memory of the doyen, a retired government employee B L Srivastava said, “It is nothing compared to Nazir’s stature but at least something has been initiated after three decades. A lot of people have received Yash Bharti award without doing anything remarkable and one could have been conferred on Nazir.”
 
 Four-time village pradhan Jamaluddin Khan, who is supporting O P Singh said a memorial and stadium will also be set up in Usia in Nazir’s name. “The minister has assured to recommend Nazir’s name for Yash Bharti too,” said Jamaluddin.
 
 Whatever be the fate of promises made during poll season, Husain’s immediate family members are worried more about the pathetic condition of drainage system in Usia. His grandson Firoz Khan (39) who lives in the same flat in Mumbai was visiting the native village. “Drainage and proper sanitation facilities are missing. Apart from giving awards and setting up memorials, this is the least politicians can do to honour Nazir Husain,” he feels.
 
 A big fan of Husain’s work, Dildarnagar resident Nasim Raza Khan from Dildarnagar said he has compiled all the news articles and stories on the actor and has prints of each of the eight Bhojpuri films he created. “That is part of my personal collection but much more needs to be done,” said Nasim.
 
 
