RANCHI:   was in Jawahar Vidya Mandir, Shyamli when his favourite disciple walked in for a game of badminton at the indoor stadium, on the day before Christmas. 

 The look on Mahi's face was usual. "When I asked him about his practice for the ODI series against England, he said, chal raha hai (going on) and we did not talk about cricket after that," said Banerjee.
 
 When TOI got in touch with Banerjee on Wednesday, the news about Dhoni's resignation from the captain's post of the Indian ODI and T20 international teams was trickling into national media. "It is impossible to know what he is thinking as he does not share his thoughts at all," Dhoni's childhood coach said. 
 
 Dhoni's sudden resignation from the captain's post has come as a surprise for the Jharkhand Ranji team. Dhoni had flown to Nagpur in order to mentor the Jharkhand squad during its   semi-final clash against Gujarat. "He was in high spirits and you could hardly make out that such a decision was about to follow in the next few hours," a cricketer in the squad said on Thursday. 
 
 Dhoni featured in only one match as captain during his district cricket days. "It was a match in Dhanbad and all the seniors including me, the then captain of the team had decided not to go as Dhoni had been made the captain. One senior player even refused to play under him but eventually Dhoni won the match for us," said  , a former Ranji player and the current sports officer at Central Coalfields Limited (CCL) on Thursday. Hussain, who captained Dhoni in CCL for five years, said that acting as a wicket keeper, gave the former captain a natural advantage to read the matches, field placements and shape his street smart strategies for the game.
 
 Chanchal Bhattacharya, Dhoni's coach in his formative years said, "It was his decision to give up the captaincy. He gave up his Test captaincy the same way. He will be able to play with a free mind now." 
 
 Friends close to the family of Dhoni said that he does not talk about cricket at home. However, many of them did not see what was coming.
 
