NEW DELHI: Two constables posted at west Delhi’s Janakpuri were arrested from Vikaspuri along with another person for allegedly extorting Rs 1 lakh from a website designer. The cops had connived with their informers to extort money from the victim who was working at his office in New Krishna Park.

 The victim, Vikrant Chauhan, was working late on Monday night along with a few colleagues when the cops entered their workplace. When the victims asked their fault, the accused men told them they had done some “mischievous activities”, details of which would only be given later.
 
 Chauhan, who had set up his office two months ago, told the police that they were about to wind up work around 12.15am when the two   and another person entered their office and asked them to hand over their cellphones.
 
 “They kept our phones in a polythene bag and pulled out a pistol from their pocket. The men bashed me in front of my colleagues and asked me to accompany them to their car,” Chauhan said in his police complaint.
 
 The accused men asked him to sit inside the car and drove him around for over an hour. “The men demanded Rs 5 lakh from me, but later settled for Rs 1 lakh,” he added. He then called a colleague who had been inside the office with him to come near District Centre with the money.
 
 The colleague reached the spot in half an hour and handed over a bag containing the money to the men. “Before the men sped away, we noted down the car’s number,” Chauhan said.
 
 “There were four people involved in the crime, two of whom were constables posted at Janakpuri police station,” said DCP (west)  .
 
 An FIR under IPC sections 384 (punishment for  ), 411 (dishonestly receiving stolen property) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) has been registered at Vikaspuri police station. The two constables, Narender Kumar and Karamveer, and their accomplice, Naresh Kumar, were arrested. Efforts are on to nab the fourth accused, Guddu. “The accused men were later granted bail,” said the officer.
 
 
