NEW DELHI: Five people were hurt when an  ,   toppled over around 3am on Saturday and came to rest on an adjacent four-floor house in C Block of the JJ resettlement colony in Inderpuri. Fifteen people were fast asleep in the   at the time of the incident.

 The five-storey structure that fell on its side was reportedly constructed within an unbelievably short time of two months. An official of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation said all building norms had been violated in its erection. He accused the owner of having taken advantage of the preoccupation of corporation officials with the recent municipal polls to hurriedly put up the structure.
 
 “The fallen building still poses a threat to the local people,” said Yogendra Singh Maan, the corporation spokesperson. “The whole area has been barricaded and experts are engaged in the exercise of pulling down the hanging building safely.”
 
 A senior police officer said that all the occupants of the house on which the building fell sustained minor injuries while trying to leave their rooms in a state of panic. The injured were given primary medical aid on the site. 
 
 The pre-dawn collapse caused a big panic in the neighbourhood. “I thought it was an earthquake, but on running out my house saw that a building had collapsed,” said Amit Chhilwal, whose house is located behind the fallen structure. But neighbours had always suspected the building was weak. “Its foundation was very shallow,” pointed out Chhilwal.
 
 Nitu Rana, 30, a resident of an upper floor in the house that was hit, said, “I thought it was a gas cylinder blast. The building shook like a leaf. My children fell unconscious due to the dust and panic.” Some men on the floor slithered down a rope that neighbours had provided, but the widowed Rana had no option other than to descend via the wrecked staircase with her three children.
 
 Second-floor resident Salma Khatoon hurt her leg while hurrying down with her children. Her brother-in-law Mohammad Hussain said with a shiver, “It was a nightmare. We thought we were finished.” It was a traumatic 30 minutes for the six members of the family as they tried to find their way to the ground.
 
 The fall damaged five buildings. Three of them have major cracks now, while the others were badly damaged. Too frightened to venture into their damaged dwellings, the affected people, including the aged and the children, spent the hot day out in the open. “I will not allow my children to go inside unless the hanging structure is pulled down,” said Sunita Devi, who had rented a house in the damaged building.
 
 The north corporation’s commissioner, PK Gupta, has ordered an inquiry into the incident. He said, “People are constructing ‘suicidal houses’ here under cover of darkness, resisting all attempts of the corporation to check illegal construction.” He said that if any official was found to have connived in or failed to stop such constructions, action would be taken against them.
 
 The six blocks of Inderpuri JJ Colony have around 3,000 houses, most of them constructed on 25-square-yard plots given to the families in the 1960s by former PM Indira Gandhi when she resettled them there. While the locals alleged officials were bribed to have the mushrooming illegal constructions approved, corporation spokesperson Maan claimed that “no building plan is needed for constructing houses in JJ colonies because the building plots are just 15-25 square yards only”. He, however, said that rules prohibited the erection of more than two floors. The building that fell, like many others in the area, had five floors.
 
 
