PATNA: The third annual census at   (VTR) is expected to be completed by March 15. Forest department officials claim the number of tigers is expected to increase from 28 as per the last census conducted in 2014. They also claim to have found several species of animals for the first time in  , which is the lone reserve for big cats in  .

 Around 225 pairs of camera traps were installed over an area of 899 sqkm in the reserve for collecting data for the census work, which started in November last year. Each pair of camera trap monitors an area of two square kilometres around it.
 
 VTR officials claimed the process of capturing photographs through camera traps has been completed and further processing of the photographs is going on. “The photographs are being analysed and we intend to complete the process in the next 15 days. We are expecting the total number of tigers to surge. Besides, a few species of animals have been spotted for the first time in the tiger reserve,” said Alok Kumar, divisional forest officer-cum-deputy director at VTR.
 
 Alok said the tiger census is being conducted with technical assistance from the World Wildlife Fund (WWF). Beside, the photographs taken during the census would be sent to   (WII) for final vetting. Sources said the final tiger figures might be officially released by the state government, probably by chief minister Nitish Kumar.
 
 The ongoing census has been conducted as per phase-IV of all India mandatory tiger monitoring protocol mandated by   (NTCA). The phase-IV protocol mandates all tiger reserves to keep collecting photographs of movement of tigers spotted by camera traps almost throughout the year, except during monsoon season. The NTCA, in November 2011, decided to implement the phase-IV monitoring. 
 
 Till 2006, tiger census in VTR used to be done by monitoring pugmarks. Later, as per the four-year census conducted by NTCA in 2010, total eight tigers were registered in around 440 square kilometres of the core area of the reserve. The number of big cats rose to 22 as per the report on the first census conducted in 2013. Later, the number of tigers was revised to 28 as per ‘Report on All India Tiger Estimation 2014’ released by  , minister of environment, forests and climate change on January 20, 2015.
 
