A B.Tech student of   allegedly   by jumping into the   on Wednesday.  , 24, was to take his semester 8 exams on Wednesday but never turned up at the institute. It was only when cops retrieved his body from the canal in the evening that his death came to light. Investigators as well as college authorities are clueless about why he took the drastic step. While police speculate Vikas might have taken the step due to exam depression, college authorities refute this as Vikas was a good student and had no reason to be depressed about his scores.

 Vikas lived with his mother and big brother near Chiloda while his father, an   personnel, is posted in Delhi. Head constable of Chiloda police station says, “We found his ID proof after retrieving the body from the water. We called his father who rushed to Gujarat and collected his body.” Vikas neither left a suicide note, nor spoke to anyone about what he was going through. His elder brother Rakesh says, “Vikas was good at studies and was preparing for Air Force Common Admission Test as well as Combined Defence Services Examination We do not know of anything that would have forc
 ed him to take his own life.”
 
 College authorities were shocked to learn of the incident, too. Dr H B Raghvendra, Director of School of Technology says, “Vikas did not appear for his exam on Wednesday. We were appraised of the situation in the evening. He was a very smart boy with good grades. He was also well behaved on campus.” Some of his classmates refusing to be named say, “Vikas had become a little quiet and withdrawn this semester. However, we did not think much of it as we had fewer classes and did not meet each other as often.” Vikas’ family completed his last rites and left for their native village in Haryana on Wednesday to disperse his ashes.
 
 
 
 Haunted by feeling of loneliness, a23-year-old youth allegedly hung himself from the ceiling fan at his Maninagar apartment on Wednesday. Harsh Mehta, a resident of Namaskar flat, had been living alone since his father passed away a year ago. His mother had divorced his father, and cut off all contacts with the family. His sister married seven years ago and has been living in Australia since then. IO Kanu Savaliya of Maninagar police station said, “Harsh worked as a freelance graphic designer and wildlife photographer. We believe he felt lonely and took the step.”
 
 His sister had been trying to get in touch with him for two days but could not get through. She called his neighbours who knocked on his door but got no reply.” Around 3 pm on Thursday, they informed the police. Police said, “Harsh was around with his friends till 10 pm on Wednesday, then returned home around 11pm. When we broke down his door, he was found hanging from the fan.”
 
