Madurai: Tirunelveli district administration has launched the Tirunelveli Sanitation League, a competition to address open defecation in its villages, with prizes up to Rs 20 lakh worth of development projects up for grabs.

 Tirunelveli district collector Sandeep Nanduri said that the campaign was to be propagated with the help of the logo ``Annachi use the toilet’’ which was launched recently. He said it was found that 1.30 lakh houses in Tirunelveli district lacked individual toilets and that steps were being taken to ensure that all of them had their own toilets by the end of December.
 
 Nanduri said that employees of all departments including education, agriculture, horticulture, public health and social welfare had been directed to integrate workers from their respective departments to make the project a success. Officers from the departments would be allocated village panchayats where they would have to create awareness on the importance of maintaining hygiene, constructing toilets and using them.
 
 Any village panchayat can participate in this competition, which has been divided into two. The ‘A’ category villages have to construct 300 individual toilets or less while the ‘B’ category have to build more than 300 toilets within the stipulated period. It will promote the construction of Individual Household toilets (IHHL) and bring them to use by October 31 this year. All toilets in the village entering the competition will be monitored between November 1and December 31to ensure that they are being used properly. A special gram sabha will be convened on November 10 to declare them as open defecation-free. The participating villages will also have to promote solid waste management and avoid use of plastics less than 50 microns in size.
 
 Village panchayats which want to participate can obtain entry forms for the contest from the respective block offices. Villages that emerge victorious in the A category will bag developmental works worth Rs 10 lakhs to be implemented in their village, while those in the B category will have Rs 20 lakhs worth of the benefits. He said that banks and private companies could also sponsor villages and enter the competition.
 
 
