Rachol: Former state assembly speaker and senior tiatrist Tomazinho Cardozo said tiatr, as an art form, could be more effective if the directors practised the moral messages they provided to audiences through the medium. He said this while delivering the keynote address at the day-long symposium, ‘Amchem Daiz’ (Our heritage), organized by the patriarchal seminary of the Literary and Cultural Activities of Rachol Seminary (LACARS) wing and the Tiatr Academy of Goa (TAG), at Rachol, on Thursday. 

 Praising the organizers for executing the symposium on the lines of a traditional tiatr with sat pord’de (seven acts), Cardozo censured sections of the media for describing tiatrs as ‘folk art’ or ‘theatre’. He explained that unlike khellswhose origins are unknown and which were passed down generations either orally or through enactmentstiatrs have been well-documented and were earlier based on European dramas.
 
 Urging tiatrists to accept positive criticism from their audiences and strive towards presenting original plays, TAG vice-president William Fernandes, did a comparison of tiatrs in the present day with those of the yesteryears, even as he urged viewers to perform their collective duty of maintaining the standard of tiatrs. In his speech titled, ‘Aichea tiatranchi sthiti ani tache vad ani avhana (The present scenario of tiatr: Its issues and challenges)’, he slammed the increasing vulgarity and personal attacks that are often made in tiatrs and said this has been dissuading audiences from attending shows.
 
 Prominent female tiatrist Anita Fernandes underscored the hardships women artistes encounter in her speech titled, ‘Tiatr machier bail-mon’xek uprastoleo somosya ani khaxa onnbhov (Issues related to participation of women in tiatrs and a personal experience)’. She emphasized on the manner in which society regards female artistes and the opposition such women face from their families.
 
 Moderating the second session, popular tiatrist Sharon Mazarello drew attention to the lack of toilets and changing room facilities for women when shows are presented in rural areas. Another tiatrist, Pradeep Naik, gave an interesting talk titled, ‘Hindu-Musolman bhavonddanchem tiatr machiek yogdan ani tanchim avhana (Contribution of Hindus and Muslims to the tiatr stage and their challenges)’ as he threw light on the efforts made by artistes like himself to shine in the largely Christian dominated industry.
 
 Seminarians Venancio Fernandes and Aleston Vaz spoke on the topics, ‘Tiatracho itihas: Vadd ani vikas (History of tiatr: Evolution and progress)’ and ‘Tiatrachea ghottokanchi somzonni: Khell tiatrachea sondhorbant (Understanding the elements of tiatr with reference to khell tiatrs)’, respectively. Cialini Fernandes spoke about the contributions of Pai Tiatrist and analyzed his major tiatrs. The session was moderated by Cosma Fernandes.
 
 During the valedictory address, chief guest Sandeep Ambe pointed out that unlike corporate sponsors for comedy shows on television, tiatrists do not receive much support apart from the TAG. He felicitated the students of St Joseph High School, Shiroda, St Aloysius High School, Benaulim, and Mae Dos Pobre High School, Nuvem, for bagging the first three places in the inter-school Konkani comedy contest. 
 
 Around 13 schools from all over Goa participated in the competition judged by popular comedians Janet Nunes e Almeida, Richard Colaco and Matheus ‘Selvy’ Correia, who also performed on the occasion.
 
 
