BHOPAL: The   government in   has more to worry from within than from the Opposition. BJP veteran and former chief minister Babulal   is going to make the monsoon session a prickly one with a long list of questions — from the killing of farmers in police firing in Mandsaur and farmer suicide to illegal sand mining, Narmada Seva Yatra and onion purchase. 

 The 87-year-old, who was dropped from the Cabinet on the 75-plus age criteria, has often embarrassed the Shivraj Singh Chouhan government by raising uncomfortable questions in the assembly and even in public. For instance, during the violent farmer agitation in June, he had rejected the government allegation that   was responsible for fomenting tension, pointing out that the Opposition didn’t have the strength for it. This time, he has filed 16 questions, including many that the government is wary of discussing in the house.
 
 Congress is already going hammer and tongs at BJP on sensitive matters like disqualification of minister Narottam Mishra by EC and the farmers’ unrest across the state. “Now, Gaur is all set to make things worse by raising sensitive issues that suits the opposition,” said a senior BJP leader.
 
 “I have raised about 16 queries in the house to know the status and government stand on schemes. I was assured about Metro Rail and   projects, I also wanted to know about government’s action after farmers’ unrest and the firing in Mandsaur. More important is the issue of onion procurement, problems like malnutrition, Narmada Seva, Gau Raksha and funds for cow shelters,” Gaur told TOI.
 
 Earlier, Gaur had embarrassed urban development minister Maya Singh by raising queries related to delays in Metro Rail and Smart City projects. The state leadership had to intervene to convince Gaur that work was being sped up on these projects. “I’m an MLA and I will raise questions pertaining to development. I don’t intend to embarrass the government, but I can't shun my responsibility of taking up issues of development in the assembly,” Gaur reiterated.
 
 Gaur, perhaps the oldest politician in BJP in the state, recently announced that he will contest the assembly polls for the 11th time in 2018 from Govindpura seat of Bhopal where he is undefeated since 1980.
 
