The differently abled sportspersons of India have been in the limelight since last year’s Paralympics, where our athletes put up an impressive show. Now, the   players from India have made the country proud, after both the men’s and women’s teams won bronze in the 4th Bali Cup Wheelchair Basketball Tournament held over the weekend. The India teams won bronze after beating the teams from Indonesia in the respective categories. This was the first-ever international tournament for the Indian eves, whereas the men had earlier competed in the Men’s Under-23 World Championship qualifiers in Thailand, earlier this year. 

 Talking about the experience,  , the president of the  , says, “We went for the tournament with the least expectation of winning medals, but our players outlived our expectations and performed so well. When compared to other teams, ours were the least experienced ones and they played using basic sports wheelchairs. They were only four teams each in both the categories, but winning bronze in both the men’s and women’s categories will give a boost to the sport.”
 
  
  
 
 Madhavi adds, “Thanks to the Australian Consulate-General in Chennai for supporting the women’s team with their training and travel for the tournament. Also, the training camp with the Australian coach, Bradley John Ness, which we had in Chennai in June, was very helpful. He boosted the confidence of the players a lot. Men’s team found it really hard to find sponsors, but thankfully my colleagues from the organisation where I work, pitched in with monetary help. I hope with what the teams have achieved, there will be support from the government in the future.”
 
 Of course, we’re excited about winning bronze in our first international tournament itself, but more than that I value it as a good learning experience. We learnt a lot from the other teams. Now, we know what level of competition is expected in international tourneys. I am sure this is just the beginning of a great future for wheelchair basketball in India.
 — Karthiki Patel, India player, who won the ‘Most-Valuable Player’ award 
 
 Finally, all the efforts we put in during our two camps have paid off. Especially, the last camp we had at the Sathyabama University just before we headed to Bali was really helpful. During that camp, we focused mainly on shooting, line defense and body strengthening. 
 — Nikhilesh Sharma, coach, Indian women’s team
 
 
