  

 
  Alia Bhatt, Varun Dhawan, Gauhar Khan, Mohit Marwah, Girish Karnad, Sahil Vaid
 
 
  Shashank Khaitan
 
 
  10 Mar, 2017
 
 
  2 hrs 15 mins
 
 
  Badrinath Ki Dulhania, which marks the second instalment in the romantic-comedy franchise Humpty Sharma Ki Dulhania, tells the story of a Badrinath Bansal (Varun Dhawan) and Vaidehi (Alia Bhatt) who fall in love with each other despite their opposite views on life and gender. Directed by Shashank Khaitan, the movie is all set to hit the theatres on March 10.
 
 
  Together, Varun Dhawan and Alia Bhatt are the best thing that could have happened to our screens. The beautiful effortlessness of their onscreen companionship plasters a grin on your face. Dhawan as Badri is adorable; you instantly take to him. He even pulls off some high-drama scenes impressively. Bhatt, unsurprisingly, gives it her all, and her sincerity comes through. But her accent, casually swinging between Juhu and Jhansi, is bothersome at times. 
 .
 
 
  'Badrinath Ki Dulhania' has created quite a stir at the box-office on its opening day. The Shashank Khaitan directorial that generated a lot of buzz before its release garnered as much as 12 crore on its first day, according to a report on Boxofficeindia.com. 
 
 
 : 'Badrinath Ki Dulhania' had an impressive second day at the ticket window with the film minting around 20% more than its first day collection. As per reports by Boxofficeindia.com, the film collected Rs. 14.25 crore on its second day. 
 
 
 : 'Badrinath Ki Dulhania' collected an estimated Rs 15.75 crore on Sunday, thus taking its weekend collections to 42 crore nett approx.
 
 
 : 'Badrinath Ki Dulhania' earned approximately Rs 12 crore (nett) on Monday, taking the film's total to Rs 54 crore (nett). 
 
 
  The film raked in an approximate gross of around Rs. 7.25 - 7.50 crore on Tuesday (day 5) at the Indian box-office.
 
 
 : The film collected an approximate gross of Rs 5.75 crore on Wednesday (day six), at the Indian box-office.
 
 
 : The film collected an estimated Rs 5 crore on Thursday.
 
 
 : The film garnered Rs. 4-4.25 crore nett on its second Friday.
 
 
 : The romantic drama earned Rs 5.75 crore (nett) on Saturday.
 
 
 : The romantic drama earned Rs 7.25 crore on its second Sunday.
 
 
 : The film collected an estimated Rs 2.50 crore on Monday, thus rounding up its 11 day total of Rs 91.27 crore.
 
 
 
 
 Alia's mom Soni Razdan was heard gushing about the romantic drama. She said, "Both Alia and Varun are so natural and comfortable with each other that it's a pleasure watch them. And you can keep watching as it's just so charming and fun." Alia's father Mahesh Bhatt said, "The film is 200 miles ahead of 'Humpty Sharma Ki Dulhania' and the younger generation will love watching Alia and Varun's performance."
 
 
  @manizhe tweeted, "Super chemistry between @Varun_dvn and @aliaa08 😍Wish there were more Badris in our world. #BadrinathKiDulhania"
 
 
 ‏ @zmilap tweeted, "Take a bow @ShashankKhaitan Its an art to blend emotion and humor and you my friend have mastered it! #BadrinathKiDulhania is your victory!"
 
 
 ‏ @Salilacharya tweeted, "And once again great. Casting the backbone of every good film .. #BadrinathKiDulhania excellent stuff @CastingChhabra"
 
 
 @Salilacharya tweeted, "Some #jodis i just love they bring out he best in each other @Varun_dvn @aliaa08 great stuff #BadrinathKiDulhania"
 
 
 @kunalkohli tweeted, "Watching #BadrinathKiDulhania interval. One word. Blockbuster. @karanjohar @Varun_dvn @aliaa08"
 
 
  @Soni_Razdan tweeted, "BKD : heartwarming heartbreaking and completely surprising @Varun_dvn @aliaa08 charm the socks off ShashankKhaitan is a superb story teller"
 
 
 @MaheshNBhatt tweeted, "Concealed in the heart of this romantic comedy is a poignant social message. Varun & Alia r wonderful. It's a triumph for Shashank Khaitan."
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
