HYDERABAD: Though the traffic cops and   authorities have been booking lakhs for violating various provisions of the Motors Vehicles Act, scores of motorists continue to violate the law with impunity.

 The enforcement agencies have failed to rein in the errant motorists. In Hyderabad alone, 30.47 lakh cases were filed in 2014 for violation of various traffic rules, another 31.23 lakh in 2015 and 30.87 lakh in 2016. In the entire Telangana, a whopping 68.23 lakh cases were filed in 2016.
 
 Traffic and transport experts said that knee-jerk measures like collecting meagre penalties alone will not help the cops and transport officials in bringing down the number of violations.They said the state government should intervene and ensure that the importance of following traffic rules is included in school syllabus and questions asked about it in examinations so that students study the chapter on citizens' social responsibility towards following road safety norms. Stringent rules such as suspension of driving licence should be enforced strictly. The state government is currently sitting on both these proposals and experts said it is high time that the government implements them.
  
  
  scientist T S Reddy said that the strict implementation of “licence suspension“ on accumulation of 12 negative points would go a long way in bringing down the violation rate. “Maintaining the violation history of every motorist is crucial and this is where the traffic cops, transport department officials, IT wing and state government should focus,“ he said and added that a strong message should be sent across to motorists that they cannot got scot free by just paying the penalty and that their driving licences would be at stake in addition to the hefty penalties.
 
 “The government has been only making grand announcements, but nothing concrete has been happening at the ground level. For example, the government announced that traffic rules and road discipline will be included as a full-fledged chapter in the school syllabus, but the issue has been pending from the last two academic years. What is needed is political will,“ said Indian Federation of Road Safety's chief functionary Vinod Kumar Kanumala.
 
 Kerala and   state governments are doing concrete work in bringing down accident rates. Road safety booklets have been printed and would be given to students in the ensuing academic year in schools in Kerala. For children in the age group of six to nine years, booklets have drawings that they can colour. When they colour a zebra crossing, they will learn about zebra crossings. Likewise, drawings on different traffic signages would give them an insight into traffic rules right from childhood, he said.
 
 Even the exclusive road safety department has remained just on paper. In Telangana, there is just one Road   -headed by a sole IPS officer who has no supporting staff. This shows how serious the government is on ensuring road safety, lamented a traffic and transportation expert.
 
 
