NAGPUR:  , the only   in the state in  , is regaining its lost glory with the herbivores staging a comeback.

 The 18.321 sqkm sanctuary was especially carved out for black bucks, also known as Indian antelopes, on December 7, 2000. The animals are listed under Schedule I of the   (Protection) Act 1972. Due to poor management by successive officials, most of the black buck population had strayed outside and came into conflict with farmers by damaging crops in the area.
 
 To restore Karanja-Sohal’s lost charm, then chief wildlife warden Shree Bhagwan had set up a five-member committee on January 7, 2016, under retired wildlife APCCF Nandkishore. Other members included Kishor Rithe, chief of Satpuda Foundation, grassland management expert GD Muratkar, honorary wildlife warden of Akola and CCF of Yavatmal Circle was member-secretary.
 
 The committee had first visited the grassland sanctuary on March 15, 2016 and talked to farmers to address various issues. It was found the basic problem of the sanctuary was that the grasses consumed by these herbivores were disappeared from the area and hence these animals turned to crops.
 
 The experts asked forest officials to grow the needed grass species so animals did not move out. The committee visited the sanctuary again after over a year on July 29, 2017, to review the work it had asked to be taken up. “As the grass species have been grown scientifically by the foresters, most of the herbivore population has returned to the sanctuary,” said Rithe, one of the committee members.
 
 “We also talked to the affected farmers who admitted the problem had been resolved to a large extent. The steps taken to restore habitat needs to continue,” Rithe added.
 
 The mandate of the committee is to review past grassland management activities and their impact; select area to be tackled for habitat manipulation on scientific basis; suggest works to be actually implemented in a phased manner under habitat manipulation exercise; and also suggest other prescriptions for overall management of grasslands
 
 
