MUMBAI: Ministers in the ruling   don't seem to have found time for PM  's pet project for rural areas, which was adopted by chief minister   in the state. Modi started the   in 2014 for MPs to adopt rural areas for development. 

 A year later, the Fadnavis government introduced a similar scheme as the Aamdar Adarsh Gram Yojna, for MLAs and MLCs. However, the scheme has found no takers among 60 of the state's total 366 lawmakers, many of them BJP-Sena ministers.
 
  Under the scheme, an MLA or MLC has to select a village with a population of over 1,000. Respective district collectors will work as coordinating officers to execute the scheme. A legislator can sanction his development fund for the project. 
 
 The state has 288 members in the legislative assembly and 76 in the legislative council; of these, 32 MLAs and 28 MLCs are yet to adopt villages. 
 
 Deputy speaker of the legislative council Manikrao Thakre (Congress), four cabinet ministers Subhash Desai, Diwakar Raote, Ramdas Kadam and Dr Deepak Sawant (all Sena) and three ministers of state - Ravindra Waikar (Sena), Ravindra Chavan (BJP), Sadashiv Khot (Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatna)-are the prominent names on the list of 'no- takers'. 
 
 In 2015, Fadnavis adopted Fetri village, on the outskirts of Nagpur city. He also adopted the drought-prone village of Halgara in Nilagan taluka, Latur, last Thursday. 
 
 Raote said he adopted Dharmapuri village in Parbhani when he was guardian minister of the district. "I am a member of the legislative council so I don't have a specific constituency," he said. When it was pointed out that the government resolution states an MLC, who has no specific constituency, can adopt any village, Raote said, "Now, I will select a village for adoption." 
 
 Another BJP member Ramniwas Singh, said he is considering four locations. "I got a letter from the government to select a village 12 days ago," he said.
 
 Most 'defaulters' were from the Congress. When contacted Anant Gadgil, national spokesperson, an MLC who has not adopted a village, said, "I will adopt a village if I would get the right to design a 'comprehensive development plan' for the village as a town planner." 
 
 The state government circular in October 2015 stated an MLA/MLC should develop three villages till July 2019 of which the first should be ready as 'Adarsh Gram' (ideal village) by July 2017 and the additional two in the next two years.
 
