NEW DELHI: The   on Saturday killed six terrorists in Jammu and Kashmir, thus foiling yet another   bid alog the Line of Control ( ), this time in the   sector.

 Search operations are underway to determine no other terrorists are hiding in the area. 
 
 Troops noticed suspicious movement along the LoC in the early hours, an army official told PTI. He added that a firefight broke out between the infiltrators and the Army.
 
 Infiltration attempts have increased in the past few weeks, no thanks to the onset of summer, which has led to snow-blocked mountain passes opening up making them easier to traverse, the Army said recently.
 
 "With the mercury rising and snow-melting in the valley, the chances of infiltration increase from the Pakistani side. The Army is all geared up to counter such threats," said Major General Ashok Narula earlier in the week. 
 
 The Army also said it recently launched "punitive fire assaults" on Pakistani positions across the LoC, inflicting "damage".
 
 Official sources said the assaults were a message to Pakistan that the Army will take stronger action against any infiltration attempts from across the border.
 
 "It was part of the plan to proactively dominate the LoC and counter-terrorism operations to curb infiltration," Major Narula added.
 
 In the meanwhile, the Army on Friday avenged the May 1 beheading of two of its security men by killing two terrorists of Pakistan's Border Action Team (BAT), even as it foiled an attack in Uri by the group that's been accused of raids, assaults and brutality on the Line of Control (LoC).
 
 According to police sources, the bodies of the two slain BAT terrorists were lying in "no man's" land along the LoC.
 
 BAT has attacked Indian personnel and posts several times and even beheaded and mutilated Indian soldiers' bodies.
  
 In a separate incident on Friday, as many as three terrorists were reportedly cornered in   in Jammu and Kashmir, while they attenpted to attack an Army patrol party.
 
 "Encounter started at Saimu Tral. Reportedly 3 terrorists trapped," tweeted Jammu and Kashmir Director General of Police Shesh Paul Vaid late on Friday.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
