CHENNAI: Soon after assuming charge as chief minister,   on Monday signed a slew of populist schemes, including closure of 500 more state-run liquor outlets, mostly aimed at placating women. Carrying forward former chief minister J Jayalalithaa’s brief, he cleared the Amma two-wheeler scheme under which women will get a 50% subsidy on purchase of moped/scooter or Rs 20,000 whichever is less; enhanced the Dr   assistance from Rs 12,000 to 18,000 and monthly allowance to unemployed youths and sanctioned 5,000 houses for fishermen.

 By quickly sanctioning the welfare schemes, the three-day-old Palaniswami government has sought to win over a cross section of people against the backdrop of simmering anger against AIADMK general secretary Sasikala in a bid to weaken the growing support base of rebel leader and former chief minister   and his supporters. The impending local body election is a cause for worry for the ruling camp in the absence of Jayalalithaa.
 
 “I have signed five schemes mentioned in the election manifesto of Amma, with the blessings of Amma (Jayalalithaa) and party general secretary Chinnamma (Sasikala),” Palaniswami told mediapersons, during his first media briefing. He paid floral tributes to Jayalalithaa’s portrait before assuming charge. Unlike his predecessor OPS, Palaniswami had no reservations moving into the official CM chambers. His council of ministers were in full attendance and cheered him along. 
 
 The Amma two-wheeler scheme, an ambitious programme of Jayalalithaa, is aimed at helping working women to purchase mopeds/scooters.   had written to the government in January, pointing to womenfolk preferring to have their own vehicles rather than relying on public and private transportation, as they work in shifts and travel long distances to work. Palaniswami said the government would spend Rs 200 crore this year so as to benefit one lakh women.
 
 Jayalalithaa had ordered closure of 500 liquor shops immediately after she assumed charge in May last year, in keeping with her promise in her party’s election manifesto supporting total prohibition in a phased manner. 
 
 The enhancement of assistance under Dr Muthulakshmi Reddy’s scheme would mean six lakh poor women would benefit annually. The programme would cost the exchequer Rs 360 crore. “The increase in assistance would help the state reduce infant mortality rate and maternal mortality rate, thereby helping to achieve the targets set under sustainable development goals, and national targets and Vision 2023 of former CM,” said a senior health official. The government would disburse the amount in instalments to beneficiaries as in the past, guidelines to which will be rolled out shortly.
 
 The chief minister ordered increasing the monthly assistance to unemployed youth who completed class ten from Rs 150 to Rs 300, from 200 to Rs 400 (Class 12 incomplete) and from 300 to Rs 600 (graduates). The entitlement of those who do not pass class ten has been increased from Rs 100 to Rs 200. The move would benefit 55,228 beneficiaries and would cost the government Rs 31 crore annually.
 
 With growing discontent among farmers in the wake of poor monsoon and crop loss, Palaniswami said drought assistance would be extended shortly. Precautionary measures had been taken to tackle drinking water crisis, he said. “A detailed plan has been worked out to tackle crisis,” Palaniswami said. Interestingly, he cut short his first briefing with the media after a query was posed on whether the state would take over sale of sand. AIADMK presidium chairman K A Sengottaiyan, who sworn in as school education minister, has moved into the finance minister’s chamber from where OPS functioned as CM too.
 
