Mumbai: Lenders expect   governor   to come up with measures to address the pile of bad loans in banks, coming in the way of bank credit growth. Some bankers expect that suggestions made by RBI deputy governor   on private and public asset management companies (AMCs), may be taken up in the policy.

 There is near unanimity in the expectation that the RBI will keep rates on hold in the forthcoming monetary policy announcement on Thursday as inflation pressures increase. However, two areas where the central bank is expected to move are non-performing assets, and in managing the surplus cash with the banking system.
 
 According to   chief economic adviser Soumya Kanti Ghosh, the surplus liquidity in the system is expected to be around 1.1% of the country’s gross domestic product. “In the post-demonetisation period, aggregate deposits have increased by Rs 4.27 lakh crore. Even after limits have been removed, the average withdrawal has declined significantly in March from January levels. Factoring this, our estimates now indicate that there would be a permanent liquidity injection of least Rs 1.7 lakh crore,” said Ghosh. He suggests that to manage this surplus, the RBI Act needs to be amended to let the central bank conduct reverse repo (borrowing from banks), without offering government bonds as collateral.
 
 Besides demonetisation and foreign portfolio inflows, another reason why liquidity continues to be surplus is that bank lending has almost come to a standstill. Public sector banks are overwhelmed with problem of lending bad loans. “We expect the RBI to lay out a road map to implement deputy governor Acharya’s two-pronged plan to resolve bank NPAs through private asset management companies and quasi government National Asset Management Company,” said Indranil Sen Gupta, economist, DSP Merrill Lynch.
 
 In a speech on how to deal with stressed assets in February, Acharya had proposed private asset management company for sectors where the stress is such that assets are likely to have economic value in the short run, with moderate levels of debt forgiveness. These include areas like metals, engineering, telecom and textiles. He had also proposed a national for sectors, where the problem is not just one of excess capacity but possibly also of economically unviable assets.
 
 
