AHMEDABAD: Even after three months of demonetization, many ATMs across the state have been facing a shortage of cash. Some are yet to be calibrated to be able to dispense new notes, others tend to run out of cash very fast. Customers are having to struggle to make transactions on a daily basis.

 Vejalpur-resident Dharti Parikh had to run from pillar to post for cash. “I had to attend a medical emergency and did not have my vehicle that day. I hired an autorickshaw and realized that I did not have enough money to pay the fare. I visited six ATMs and none of them had cash,” she said.
 
   , a resident of Kalavad Road in Rajkot, said he had visited around 10 ATMs in Rajkot two days ago. “But none of them had money. Banks are not supplying enough cash to ATMs,’’ Vaghela said.
 
 Customers find themselves in trouble if they have no cash as several shopkeepers and traders demand payment in notes and are unwilling to accept digital transaction. 
 
 Sukhdev Kacha, another resident of Rajkot, had gone to purchase a refrigerator from a shop last week. “I offered my debit card for payment. But the man at the counter requested that I pay in cash. How do you make such high-value payments in cash?” Kacha said.
 
 Khushboo Shah, an Ahmedabad-based professional, said milk and vegetable vendors are accepting mobile wallet payments but their limit gets exhausted within a few days. “This forces customers to shell out cash,” Shah said.
 
 Strangely, bankers appear to think that it is a mere coincidence if a customer finds no cash at an ATM. 
 
 “If the footfalls are high, the ATMs may be running out of money in a couple of hours. We are ensuring adequate cash supply at all our banks,” said an official of a private bank. 
 
 AC Shah, DGM, SBI (Surat) said only a few of their ATMs are functional but some are facing calibration problems.
 
 Officials of   (MGBEA) claim that cash shortage at ATMs is true for Ahmedabad as well. 
 
 MGBEA general secretary, Janak Rawal, said cash supply continues to be a problem. “The problem is relatively less at ATMs of private banks. But cooperatives and nationalized banks still face cash shortage. Moreover, many bank ATMs are have not been calibrated for notes. Hence, they either do not function or run out of cash fast,” Rawal said.
 
