LUCKNOW: Meat crisis gripped the city on Saturday with dealers and suppliers of goats and chicken broilers announcing indefinite strike to oppose UP government's crackdown on unlicensed slaughter houses and meat shops.

 The associations also announced that their counterparts in other parts of the state may join strike by the evening. The supply of buffalo meat has already stopped from Tuesday onward.
 
 The decision to stop supply was taken at a meeting of   (LMMS) and Lucknow   (LMBVKS).
 
 LMMS represents over 50 wholesalers who supply broiler chicken to over 5,000 retailers, besides restaurants, hotels and small food joints.
 
 Similarly, LMBVKS represents about 600 dealers who supply goats and broiler chicken to retailers, shops, restaurants and hotels in the entire city.
 
 LMMS president   said that association members' application for licence is gathering dust at Lucknow Muncipal Corporation (LMC) since 2014.
 
 "We were forced to work without licence because LMC is neither issuing fresh licence, not renewing old licences for the past three years. Our legal business turned illegal because of the apathy of the authorities and now the crackdown has hit our livelihood," Saxena said.
 
 Other demands of the association include setting up of a modern 'murga mandi' (a centralized market for broiler chicken).
 
 Another member said the BJP government should have applied wisdom and create alternate mechanism before crackdown. Action should also be taken against LMC officials, he added.
 
 LMBVKS president   also said that the licences of association members have not been renewed since 2014. "We are talking to dealers' associations across the state and would announce a state-wide strike by evening," he said.
 
 Agitated members of the two associations said majority roadside dhabas, fast food vendors, paan shops and vegetable/fruit vendors and retailers in the city are doing business without licence but no action has been taken against them. The fault, they said, was of officials and not people in the business who work hard for their livelihood. 
 
