VISAKHAPATNAM: The recent railway accident near   has thrown up questions on the safety of passengers travelling on the railway network of Indian Railways. Vizagities feel that the railways should focus on introducing the latest technology and ensure that the railway tracks are monitored 24/7 in order to avoid mishaps. Here's what our readers have to say:

 
 
 In India, the railways is the most preferred mode of long distance travel. The recent accident not only highlights the poor maintenance work by the concerned officials, but also leaves commuters with serious concerns regarding train travel. Accidents can be avoided with proper maintenance of tracks, signalling system and foolproof emergency operative systems. Apart from frequent track inspection, weak rails and faulty fish plates must be replaced in time by the respective zones to avoid major accidents. Efforts to eliminate fish-plated joints by welding single rails into long welded rails should be made. Additional track inspection staff should be deployed at night in areas where the railways suspect anti-social elements causing trouble. Training facilities for drivers, guards and staff connected with train operation need to be upgraded. Safety audits should be conducted at regular intervals. More safety action plans should be continually executed to reduce accidents caused by human errors. The government should improve and upgrade communication devices through train radio systems which will help information to travel quickly in emergency situations.
 
 
 
 
 Monitor tracks regularly
 
 The recent train tragedy was a result of neglect on the part of the officials. This is the third major derailment in two months. Fractures on the track is suspected to be the reason for the derailment. However, as and when such mishaps occur, the government promises stringent actions against the responsible persons but that never happens and the incident fizzles out. Granting ex-gratia to the bereaved families is not the only immediate action that should be taken up. An action plan should be chalked out by the railway ministry at the earliest. Monitoring of the tracks should be performed regularly and a mechanism needs to be installed on the tracks such that when there is a breakage, an instant signal is received by the nearby station or the concerned department who accordingly alerts the loco-pilot. Train tracking system should also be improvised. I urge the government to look into the setbacks if any and ensure passenger safety.
 
 
 
 Use technology to sense faulty tracks
 
 Safety of rail travel involves two aspects — safety from burglaries and accidents. The railway authorities must look into both these issues. Any lapses will lead to disasters like the recent Hirakhand Express derailment. The occurrence of train accidents proves that more measures need to be adopted. To prevent accidents, alertness of the driver, proper track maintenance, proper signaling system and all other related aspects must be strictly observed. Technology should be used to sense faulty tracks. Inspections must be carried out regularly to ensure that the tracks are always in an excellent condition. To prevent train robberies, sufficient security personnel must be deployed in all trains. Stoppage of trains in secluded areas must be avoided at nights. The system of pulling the chain in times of emergencies must be done away with and in its place, emergencies can be attended to by alerting the driver to stop the train.
 
 
 
 
 Focus on proper maintenance
 
  generally occur due to four factors — human error, technical error, sabotage and natural causes. At least 90 per cent accidents occur on account of the first two factors. With the recent increase in the number of trains, the focus should now be on ensuring proper implementation of safety norms. The railways should adopt new technology at par with foreign countries and address poor maintenance of tracks, staff shortage, fatigue of loco-pilots and poor allocation of funds. Instead of dreaming about high speed trains which are costly to run and maintain, the government should focus on proper maintenance of the present system. 
 
 
 Railways needs to be alert
 
 The sudden increase in train accidents is a serious concern as it questions the government’s efficiency in managing the railway tracks. While officials suspect foul play, we cannot rule out the lack of maintenance by the concerned departments. Whatever the reasons, the passengers are dying for no fault of their own. The government should keep strict vigilance on miscreants as well as erring officials. Moreover, the existing railway system is not at all safe. The signalling as well as mechanical operations need to be upgraded. The entire railway system must always be on alert to prevent accidents.
 
 
 
 
 Zero accident policy needed
 
 The finance ministry has allotted Rs 1 lakh crore for safety upgrades by Rashtriya Rail Sanraksha Kosh (RRSK). This is a welcome step in ensuring safety of passengers. However, the railways need to first fill all the vacant posts. The vacancies for trackmen to station masters have to be first looked into. Majority of accidents are attributed to neglect on the part of the staff. More than looking into disaster management, reforming the security system is essential. They need to work with a clean vision towards ‘Zero Accident Policy’.
 
 
 Interlocking systems required
 
 Though the frequency of existing trains as well as new trains have been increased, railway officials have ignored the safety aspects. The recent derailment of Hirakhand Express has highlighted this unfortunate truth and unless the entire railway system is computerised with interlocking system on all routes coupled with quality rails and frequent inspections, the fate of hapless passengers will continue to be uncertain.
 
 
 
 For the coming week, we turn the spotlight on Visakha Utsav. Was the festival organised up to your expectations? What needs to be done to attract more tourists from across the country and abroad and to make Visakha Utsav a major attraction? Pick up the megaphone and SAY IT LOUD! If you feel strongly about this or any other issue, mail us at sayitloudvizag.toi@gmail.com. Do not forget to send in a photograph of yours along with your opinion and phone number.
 
