WWE’s RAW exclusive pay-per-view,   saw three titles changes with The United States Championship finding a new face in   while Alexa Bliss made history becoming first women wrestler to hold the RAW Women's championship and the Smackdown Live women's championship. Bray Wyatt with assistance from Jinder Mahal and The Singh brothers got the better of Randy Orton, Braun Strowman continued his path of destruction beating Big Dog   in the main event. 

 
 
 
 With injured ribs, separated shoulder and internal injuries Big Dog Roman Reigns made his way for another main event this time with Braun Strowman and it did not take him much time for him to take on Strowman and with a flurry of punches he had the Monster Among Men out of the ring. Strowman though picked Reigns easily countering the drive-by and then chokeslamed the Big Dog on to the table. Strowman punished Reigns further with repeated knee strikes but Reigns got enough space and movement to deliver a superman punch but Strowman had it well scouted and caught Reigns, but Reigns escaped and picked Strowman up for a Samoan Drop. Strowman still wasn't down but a cactus clothesline had both men down. Reigns tried to get the momentum with a spear but failed. Storwman then got himself acquainted with the ring post on the outside and he looked dazed, Strowman was back up by the count of nine but Reigns connected with a drive-by. Reigns set up for a spear and he hit it, but Strowman kicked out. Two superman punches and Strowman was down to only one knee but he picked up Reigns and after two running powerslams, it was victory for Braun Strowman. 
 
 After the match, Strowman got the steel steps inside the ring and drove Reigns' through it. WWE officials and EMT ran in to check on Reigns as Strowman walked away the victor.
 
 
 HELLBENT on DESTRUCTION is 
  right about now, and that's NOT good for 
 ... 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 Back to the WWE championship match Wyatt makes his way to the ring but waiting there is Orton with a chair and it seems Orton would take the victory after DDT off the table on Wyatt before the Singh brothers interfere. Orton puts them aside, but Wyatt wakes up and sets Orton for Sister Abigail. Orton blocked and then hit the RKO only to be interrupted by Jinder Mahal who took a cheap shot on Orton's neck with the WWE title. Wyatt hits Orton with Sister Abigail for the three count and Mahal leaves with the WWE title once again. 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 Rollins finally got his hands on the man who almost cost Rollins his career and he was out for   on Triple H's Destroyer, Samoa Joe. Joe targeted the weakened knee off Rollins and Joe controlled the early proceedings. but Rollings endured and had Joe's number when he countered the Coquina Clutch with a pinfall after holding Joe's shoulders down on the mat for the three count. 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 House of Horrors match begins with Randy Orton reaching the House of Horrors before getting ambushed by Wyatt in the living room. Wyatt takes the early assault on Orton driving him through a table lamp before leading him to a room full of rag dolls. Crashing and burning Orton is punished by Wyatt inside the house. Orton sees Wyatt coming in the kitchen and mounts a bit of an offense before being pinned under a refrigerator by Wyatt. Wyat then proceeds to the front door and heads to the Arena. 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Bliss makes history as the first woman to win the women's titles on both RAW and SmackDown. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 The Hardys got the better off Cesaro and Sheamus for the second straight time after Jeff Hardy delivered a swanton on the back of Sheamus after a blind tag. But after the match Cesaro and Sheamus attacked the Hardy Boyz to make a big statement 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 A good end to end match and with Double A Austin Aires was on the early assault. But Neville gets things under control with a headlock. Sling shot senton by Neville is followed by a slingshot plancha by Aires. Aires goes for the Last Chancery after a sunset flip powerbomb but Neville breaks the hold yanks referee Darrick Moore. Aires wins the match via disqualification but Neville retains the championship 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 Owens tried to play mind games early on bailing out, but Jericho followed the champion and brought the fight to the Owens. Owens though soon took over and connected with a cannon ball. Jericho then had the flying elbow early and a Lionsault had Owens reeling. Owens then got the super-kick in and had Jericho in position for the pop-up powerbomb but Jericho held on to the ropes. Another powerbomb attempt was reversed in to a reverse Frankensteiner. Jericho got the Walls of Jericho but Owens broke the hold with a finger on the ropes. Jericho though went after Owens'finger and stomped it hard. Jericho them put Owens' hand between the steps and the ring and then kicked the steps. Owens' asks referee check on him luring JEricho in and after a poke in the eye Owne's hit him with a super-kick but could not get Jericho up for the powerbomb because of the finger. Jericho took advantage and another Walls of Jericho helped Jericho become the United States Champions again. With this victory, Jericho will now move to Smackdown Live. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 Enzo & Big Cass came out to their trademark entrance and Enzo, much to the surprise had the upper hand on Karl Anderson before the Machine Gun got his knees up and a tag to Luke Gallows meant punishment for Enzo. Enzo endured and managed a hot tag to Big Cass after much teasing and the Big C cleaned the ring with a clothesline to Anderson and then proceeded with scoop slam on Big LG then a Stinger Splash. Cass gets in Enzo but Anderson kicks him before he can make his way in to the ring and set him up for the Magic Killer but after Big Cass' big boot, Enzo gets the pin on LG with the small package 
 
 
 
