LUCKNOW: The Bharatiya Janata Party described UP Minister Gayatri   in rape case as a sign of changing times in the state, accusing the incumbent   government of shielding him all this while. The rape case against the minister, that came in the middle of the recently concluded assembly elections in UP, was used by the BJP to highlight lawlessness in the state.

 Prime Minister Narendra Modi had repeatedly cited failure of the police to arrest Gayatri as an example of the extent to which alleged criminals enjoy political patronage in UP, while BJP national president Amit Shah had announced that once BJP comes to power in UP, the government will ensure Gayatri is behind bars at the earliest. “Agar woh paataal mein bhi chhupa hoga to police us ko wahan se bhi nikaal kar jail mein dalegi (We will find him no matter where he is),“ Shah had said in one of his election rallies.
 
 “During our election campaign, we had promised to put such people in jail once we come to power. Though BJP has yet to form government in UP, the message is clear and police have started cracking the whip,“ said the party's state chief  .
 
 Despite the allegations, Samajwadi Party government stood by Gayatri, who was the minister for trans port in Akhilesh cabinet.The fact that he was not even dropped from the cabinet al so invited criticism from political adversaries. With Gayatri contesting the assem bly polls from Amethi as SP candidate, Akhilesh even campaigned for him and addressed a public meeting in the constituency but did not share the stage with Gayatri. Later, Akhilesh said Gayatri should surrender before the police and let the law take its course.
 
 Dismissing allegations that the government had gone soft on Gayatri all this while, SP national vice president Ram Gopal Yadav said the police were doing their job and had finally caught hold of him on Wednesday.
 
 “Police were doing their job and there was no interference from the government,“ said the SP MP in Rajya Sabha. UP Congress Committee (UPCC) chief Raj Babbar said when the case was lodged against Gayatri, the model code of conduct for the assembly polls was in place.
 
 “The police were directly under the EC and government at the Centre, hence they will be the right people to comment on that,“ said Raj Babbar on the delay behind Gayatri's arrest.
 
 
 
 The Special POSCO Judge Laxmi Kant Rathore here on Wednesday sent Gayatri Prajapati into judicial custody till March 28. Police produced Prajapati before the court soon after he was arrested from Aashiana. Prajapati and his six aides were booked on the Supreme Court's directive.Later, Prajapati had sought relief from arrest but the SC had rejected his plea on March 6. Prajapati was missing since February 27.
 
