Panaji: Though the demonetization benefits are debatable, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s surprise move on November 8 to withdraw high denomination notes has come as a boon to a Panaji-based startup, Numadic. Numadic has developed a digital platform for transportation companies and fleet operators that simplifies and even eliminates cash transactions.

 The six-month old startup has already obtained financial support from foreign investors through an initial round of funding as it tries to disrupt the logistics sector.
 
 While cash shortage woes plague everyone, very little attention has been given to the country’s massive logistics and trucking industry, whose survival depends on cash.
 
 Asked for the inspiration behind the startup, co-founder and chief executive officer   quotes  . “‘You can’t manage what you can’t measure’ - we strive to simplify and make logistics easier to manage for our clients,” he says.
 
 The usually media-shy Goan startup offers fleet operators and logistics companies a palm-sized tracking device that integrates with RFID tags which makes it not only cost-effective but also smart.
 
 The company already boasts of Essar Oil as a client along with GMI Zarhak, ALF Engineering, Hidedesign and Globe Transport Corporation among others.
 
 Numadic blends internet-of-things (IoT) technology and digital wallets with analytics for the Indian logistics industry. Already present in four cities, the startup already counts a major oil and logistics company, among its clients, tracking over five thousand trucks, forklifts and other logistics assets.
 
 Sequeira started Numadic along with  , the former chief financial officer of  . While demonetization may prove to be a godsend for the startup, the founders had another target in mind. “We were preparing for GST and were getting ready for it, but demonetization has become a boon for us,” Sequeira said.
 
 Sequeira is a serial entrepreneur with two startups under his belt who began his career assembling and selling computers while in high school. A 35-member team, with a significant presence in Goa has helped design the fleet-tracking solution which provides exact vehicle location, notifications on driving behaviour and vehicle maintenance, and shipping updates.
 
 While it is still too early to put a value to Numadic, Fleetmatics - a startup that operates in the same space- was recently acquired by Verizon Communications for $2.4 billion.
 
 More importantly, venture capitalist Sanjay Venkat, who was one of the investors in Fleetmatics has also invested in Numadic. “We didn’t build Numadic to sell tracking devices. We offer a solution to predict bottlenecks in supply chains and notify our customers in advance to prevent them,” Sequeira said.
 
 
