THIRUVANANTHAPURAM:   Kadakampally Surendran said that the new   will focus on development of   and priority will be given to promote   

 Concluding the discussion on demands for grants in the budget for the sector in the Assembly on Tuesday, Surendran said a draft policy effecting necessary amendments to the policy in 2012 has already been prepared after deliberations at various levels. The government will also give priority to heritage projects, development of tourism in Malabar, adventure tourism, accessible tourism and human resource development in the sector, he added.
 
 "Though there has been an increase in tourist arrivals, the state is witnessing a decrease in growth rate. Among the challenges the state facing in the sector include stiff competition from neighbouring states and countries, lack of direct connectivity from major markets, loss of freshness of existing products and current liquor policy. The government will try to resolve these problems and boost growth," Surendran said.
 
 The department, he said, has already given priority to three heritage projects, including Kodungallur Muziris project, Thalassery heritage project and Alappuzha heritage conservation project. "The Muziris biennale has attained global recognition and steps are being taken to establish a permanent art gallery for the event," he said.
 
 The realization of Kannur international airport will give a big boost to tourism activities in Malabar region, where government has already envisaged a Rs 300-crore river cruise project, connecting major rivers in Kannur and Kasaragod, the minister said, adding that 50 small and large projects have secured approval, which will help the region flourish on the global tourism map.
 
 Besides, preliminary discussions involving forest and tourism departments, talks were held to develop adventure tourism activities in places like Thenmala and Ponmudi. The Jatayupara tourism project, nearing completion, is expected to start by Onam, the minister said.
 
