SURAT: Railway Protection Force (RPF) has been provided with a Labrador dog trained at the training centre for dogs in Coimbatore to beef up security of trains and passengers at  . 

 One-and-a-half-year-old Bruno, the first sniffer dog at Surat railway station, is being provided with two trainers and is being kept in a specialized tent at the railway colony here. Bruno is trained to sniff out inflammable and explosive substances hidden in passengers’ luggage so as to avert fires in long-distance trains. Surat railway station is infamous for liquor smuggling from Daman, but the dog cannot sniff out liquor consignment as yet. 
 
 RPF inspector Jagdish Jat said, “It was our long-pending demand for deployment of a sniffer dog at Surat railway station. Daily thousands of people alight at the railway station and RPF constables cannot keep an eye on each and every passenger. This dog is expert in sniffing out explosives and inflammable substances and was trained at Podanur training centre of   in Coimbatore.   on December 28.”
 
 Divisional Railway Users Consultative Committee (DRUCC) member Rakesh Desai said, “I had strongly recommended to Western Railway Divisional Railway Manager to provide a sniffer dog at Surat railway station. Many migrants come from other states to work here and their and other passengers’ safety is very important to the Indian Railways.”
 
 Trainer constable Vikas Yadav said, “We are yet to be provided with explosive samples from the department. We are training the dog for three hours daily and inspecting trains like August Kranti and Rajdhani. Until now, we have not found any explosive substance from the trains or at the platform.”
 
 Yadav said Bruno has so far found substances like gas cylinders and crackers on trains. While he is very efficient in primary job, he is still unable to detect inflammable substances such as alcohol and motor fuels. He said government spends around Rs 9,000 per month on the diet of these dogs. 
 
 “On daily basis, they require 1 litre milk, porridge, meat, eggs and other royal canine food.”
 
 
