AHMEDABAD: A metropolitan court on Saturday granted 12-day police remand for   and his aide   alias Haddi in connection with the  , in which 56 persons had lost their lives. 

 Crime branch sources said Bhatkal had allegedly given shelter to another key accused   alias Tuakeer who is still absconding in the case at his farm in Karnataka soon after the serail blasts in the city. 
 
 “We want to know the whereabouts of Taukeer and hence it is important to question Bhatkal and Haddi” said a senior crime branch official. 
 
 Crime branch sources said the accused were allegdly also in touch with ISI of Pakistan and hence it is important to know the links between them and the Pakistani spy agency. “We also are probing how the accused from Gujarat and other states came to gather for a conspiracy to kill innocent people. 
 
 It is noteworthy that Bhatkal and Haddi were brought to the city by the city crime branch on transfer warrant from Delhi on Friday and produced before the designated court. 
 
 On Friday, the investigating agency sought full remand of both accused on the ground that they are tough nuts to crack and it would require their custodial interrogation for a longer duration to extract information.
 
 During the proceeding, the crime branch did not have any fresh ground to seek remand, but put forth more or less the same reasons it used to place nine years ago in securing custodial interrogation of co-accused in this case. 
 
 The crime branch on Saturday told the court that it wanted to find out from Bhatkal and Haddi about people involved the terrorist strikes and how the operatives of SIMI and the Indian Mujahideen had carried out recce in Hindu areas in cities like Surat, Bharuch and Pune before carrying out the terror strike.
 
 After a brief proceeding, the court permitted cops to have custody of the accused for 12 days in connection with the FIR registered with Khadia police station. There were 20 different FIRs registered in Ahmedabad after 19 bombs rocked the city on July 26, 2008.
 
 Till date, 77 persons have been charged by a special court in the serial blasts case, and 74 of them are facing trial. The prosecution has examined 882 witnesses. The 26 secret witnesses are yet to be examined.
 
 Bhatkal was reportedly arrested in August 2013 from Raxaul near the Indo-Nepal border. 
 
 He was tried in the Dilsukhnagar blast case in Hyderabad and given death sentence after the court found him guilty.
 
 
