MUMBAI:   Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) on Monday held that a petition filed against   by two of its minority shareholders-- family firms of its ousted chairman Cyrus Mistry—was not maintainable under provisions of the Companies Act that requires them to have at least one-tenth of issued shares. The petition alleged mismanagement by the $103billion Tata group company and oppression of their rights as minority shareholders.

 But the Tribunal will on Tuesday hear a plea of the Mistry camp for a waiver of eligibility conditions under the Act, which   is empowered to grant. It is thus not the end of a legal battle for the Mistry side which had last December moved the tribunal for various reliefs including to prevent his removal as director of Tata Sons.
 
 "The petitioners have failed to satisfy that the petition is maintainable. We will now hear matter regarding waiver," said the NCLT bench headed by B S V Prakash Kumar in a short order mentioning only the operative part. The reasoned order would be available later. The Tribunal’s decision on the preliminary issue of maintainability of petitions filed by Mistry companies has to be followed by a decision on whether it will now grant waiver before it can deal with merits of the case.
 
 Cyrus Investments and Sterling Investment Corporation, the two Mistry family companies had last December approached the tribunal against Tata Sons,  , other directors and trustees.
 
 They made Mistry also a respondent, but Tata Sons said the two petitioning companies which are shareholders of Tata Sons, are his “alter ego’’. Mistry was removed as director of Tata Sons on February 6 at a shareholders meeting after his side failed to get a stay on it from the Tribunal and its appellate body in Delhi, the Nataional Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT). The NCLAT had while refusing a stay in January directed the Mumbai Tribunal to first decide on maintainability and then on a plea for a waiver, before getting into merits.
 
 The eligibility provision under section 244 of the Companies Act was the bone of contention. It provides that minority members who can seek relief against alleged oppression and mismanagement before the tribunal are only “those who have not less than one-tenth of the issued share capital of the company.’’ The Mistry camp said it had over 18 % equity shares and hence was eligible to file the petition. It said the NCLT ought to give a “purposive interpretation’’ to the provision. Their counsel C A Sundaram and Janak Dwarkadas said that the Company law amended in 2013 stipulated relief for different “class of shareholders’’ and that equity shareholders were a distinguishable class.
 
 But going by earlier rulings by the Supreme Court, the Tata camp represented by A M Singhvi, Ravi Kadam, Mohan Parasaran and S N Mukherjea said that “issued shares include both equity and preference share,’’ and that when the law was clearly worded, not ambiguous, its “plain meaning’’ would apply, not purposive or any other interpretation. The plain meaning, meant the Mistry Companies’ 18 percent equity in effect constitutes only 2.17% of issued share capital and hence was not eligible to file a petition alleging oppression of their minority rights, said Singhvi.
 
 It could not have been intended by the legislature that equity shareholders should be deprived from approaching court for remedy against oppression just because of a wider meaning to include both equity and preference share, in issued share capital, the Mistry Camp had argued. But Singhvi had in turn said the Mistry plea of "separate class of Shareholders" would lead to rewriting the law, which the NCLT was not empowered to do.
 
 The NCLT by holding that the Mistry camp did not satisfy it on why they should be considered eligible, has accepted Singhvi’s exhaustive submissions.
 
