LUDHIANA: In order to ensure more seats in the  , local leadership of the   (SAD) and the   is mulling the idea to   among the candidates of both parties. However, delimitation of the city wards is yet to start and the   have already become active in the areas. Even the district presidents have started preparing reports from the ground level on ticket distribution. 

 Both parties plan on dividing equal seats and have started receiving recommendations from the party workers for tickets distribution. The Akali leaders on Monday conducted a meeting in this regard. They have suggested that from the areas BJP did not register victory, Akali leaders should be given a chance and where the SAD did not have a strong base and BJP could score a victory, then they should be given the ticket. The SAD members gave the example of central constituency where out of 12 wards only one is with Akali Dal while on the rest BJP contested elections but could not register victory on all. Therefore, the SAD leaders have suggested shuffling of these wards. 
 
 Akali district president Harbhajan Singh Dang said they had started conducting ward-level meetings and these suggestions had come up in the meeting that took place in ward No 31. He claimed that they would convey the suggestions to the party high command so that they could approach the BJP for shuffling of wards. He added that their only aim was to register victory and for that they needed to change their strategy. 
 
 Meanwhile, BJP district president Ravinder Arora has welcomed the suggestion and said it would help in registering victory on more seats and they would be able to form majority in the MC general house. He added that they would discuss the issue with the Akali Dal and final decision would be taken after that. Regarding their preparations for the MC elections, Arora said they would complete their ward-wise meetings with the party workers within a week after which they would get a clear picture of candidates who could register victory. 
 
 
