NAGPUR:The Central Mall, which has been in controversy ever since its inception, may close down soon as urban development department has lifted the stay on its demolition. The   (NIT) is planning to terminate the agreement of the present concessionaire   and a hearing on this issue will be held on August 9.

 Irregularities galore in the mall which does not have occupancy certificate and environmental clearance. According to NIT officials, Kumar has not paid premium to NIT since last three years. Though the exact amount is not known, it probably runs into crores, according to officials. Kumar has already been served a show cause notice for non-payment of dues.
 
 Due to unauthorized construction, NIT had issued a demolition notice to the mall in 2015. However, Kumar got a stay from urban development ministry in October 2015. A hearing on this stay order was held in Mumbai last month during which minister of state for urban development Ranjit Patil lifted the stay.
 
 Now, Kumar is trying get his structure regularized under the transit oriented development (TOD) policy. “The floor to space index (FSI) has been increased. Kumar has submitted a proposal claiming that his unauthorized construction can now be regularized,” said PP Dhankar, executive engineer (West) of NIT. The agreement with Kumar will only be terminated after it is approved by the NIT board, Dhankar added.
 
 The mall had opened without an occupancy certificate. Strangely, NIT officials did not make an effort to stop the opening. Some time later, NIT issued a part occupancy certificate to the Mall’s lower and upper lower basement, ground floor and three floors, even though there large number of violations of sanctioned building plan. The certificate, however, mentioned that the unauthorized part of construction will have to be razed by the builder. This has not been done till date.
 
 In 2013, the consent appraisal committee (CAC) of Maharashtra   (MPCB) had decided to serve a closure notice to the Mall for not replying to its notices. CAC had earlier refused to give consent to establish and the Mall started without MPCB’s clearances.
 
 The Mall was also required to have an environmental clearance as it is situated within 500 metre of Nag river. When Kumar had constructed pillars on the bed of the river to illegally expand the structure,   (NMC) had issued a notice to him.
 
 When contacted Kumar said that he had paid premium to NIT regularly and was yet to receive any notice from the civic agency to vacate the Mall.
 
 
