Bhopal: Some 150 government doctors, who applied as in-service candidates vying for post graduate seats, threatened to resign, demanding restoration of benefits granted to them in PG admissions, here on Monday. Additional benefits in PG admission is granted to government   who are in service in remote areas of Madhya Pradesh.

 These MBBS doctors who become specialists sign a bond to service as specialist doctors in remote areas for five years. Madhya Pradesh health department has just about 289 specialist doctors against a demand of over 1,000. The number of specialists in remote areas is far less in the state that strives to improve on its dismal IMR and MMR record.
 
 Counselling for PG courses 2018-19 has reduced the number of such in-services doctors working with MP health department. According to one of the affected doctors, Dr Anoop Goyal, doctors posted in 250 blocks have been left out under the new counselling rules. Only 89 blocks comprising of mostly tribal areas would qualify for additional points for admission to PG diploma courses. There are 42 such seats on offer.
 
 On Monday, some 150 in-service doctors who claimed to have served about three years in remote areas of MP, protested at the entrance of Satpura Bhawan, which also houses the directorate of medical education (DME). “Counselling rules made by states like Rajasthan and Bihar are far more favourable to doctors who are serving in areas where private practitioners defer to reach out too. MP government policy will deter more doctors from serving in remote areas,” said Dr Goyal.
 
 Later, protestors met health commissioner Dr Pallavi Govil. After the meeting, it was informed that senior health officials will consider their demands. However, with rules framed and doctors not citing their objection in advance, the current year’s schedule is unlikely to disturbed.
 
 Adamant over fulfilment of their demands, doctors reiterated that they would resign from their posts, if the MP government does not meet their demands. At present, round two of PG counselling is underway. New DME policy came after a court decision. State government has the discretion over counselling policy. There are 42 reserved seats for in-service government doctors in diploma courses this year. MD and MS additional marks are limited.
 
 GFX: SPECIALIST DOCS IN MP
 
 Demand --- 1,336
 
 In-service --- 289
 
 Needed --- 1,047
 
 
