Idukki:   special commissioner M Manoj on Tuesday reviewed the arrangements of the Idukki district administration for the Sabarimala   festival on Saturday.

 A special meeting was held in the morning at Vandiperiyar. Every year, thousands of devotees reach Pullumedu, Parunthumpara and Panchalimedu to watch the Makara Jyothi.
 
 The commissioner directed that all government departments should work jointly. 
 
 Idukki district collector G R Gokul said that the district administration will gave more importance to the security of the devotees.
 
 District police chief K B Venugopal said over 1,500 police personnel will be deployed at Pullumedu, Parunthumpara and Panchalimedu areas. 
 
 One IG, two district police chiefs, 15 DSPs and 18 circle inspectors will monitor the security arrangements. One ACP will oversee the traffic arrangements in Pullumedu, Panchalimedu and Parunthumpara. The forest department’s elephant squads will be deployed on the Makaravilakku day.
 
 Devotees can enter Sannidhanam via Sathram and Pullumedu only from 8am to 2pm.
 
  Entry of those coming from Sannidhanam to Pullumedu on Makaravilakku day will be restricted at Pandithavalam after 1pm. 
 
 Attempts to view Makara Jyoti by climbing on top of trees will be prevented.
 
 The forest department has already arranged ambulance facility and five ASKA lights in the areas.
 
 The PWD will construct barricades at Pullumedu and Panchalimedu. The health department will provide ambulance facility and other health assistance at various centres.
 
 The KWA will ensure drinking water facility to the devotees at various centres. 
 
 BSNL will provide 3G mobile facility to the devotees at Pullumedu and already a temporary mobile tower has been set up in the area.
 
 The Sabarimala special commissioner presided over the meeting. 
 
 Among the other attendees were ADM K K R Prasad, Periyar Tiger Reserve (west) deputy director C Babu, RDO (in charge) P G Radakrishnan and Vandiperiyar grama panchayat president Shanti Haridas.
 
 
