BALLARI/BENGALURU:   has landed in a controversy after its vice-chancellor   said “one has to carry a suitcase-load of cash to   to get the files moving“.

 “Assurances by the state government are valid only for that day, and forgotten the next day. Unless we take a suitcase full of cash to Vidhana Soudha, none of our problems are solved by the government,''   said during an address to students and professors on the second day of the university's silver jubilee celebrations on Wednesday evening. Higher education minister Basavaraj Rayareddi on Thursday said the government will issue a show-cause notice to Ghanti. “She has been asked to explain to whom she went with the suitcase in Vidhana Soudha. We'll seek her response and take action,'' he told reporters.
 
 Rayareddi said all universities are directly under the control of the state government since the governor is the chancellor. “Being a vice-chancellor of a reputable university , it's not fair for her to make allegations against her own government,“ he said.
 
 He said the CM has released Rs 25 crore for the university's silver jubilee celebrations, Rs 23 crore for constructions on the campus and taken steps to fill vacancies.“What more she can expect,“ Rayareddi asked. Ghanti's statement came a day after the CM said if the VC sends a request on filling vacancies, he would approve it. From the dais, he asked Ghanti how many posts were vacant. She said 180, and he replied: “I'll sanction all.“
 
 The next day, Ghanti said, “To whom should we explain our university's problems? If we take our problems to the government, they need a suitcase full of cash to solve it. Earlier, they would send the suitcase full of cash to develop the university. Now, I need to take a suitcase full of cash and plead with them to develop university.“
 
 Ghanti told the dignitaries on the dais that they shouldn't be under the impression that the government will help the university , which is facing faculty shortage and funds crunch for research.
 
 After her statement went viral on social media and TV channels, Ghanti said: “I was reiterating the observation of previous vicechancellors on successive governments' attitude towards the only language university in the state. It was not meant about Siddaramaiah and his government. My speech was wrongly interpreted by the media,'' she said.
 
 
 
 
 In Belagavi, chief minister Siddaramaiah on Thursday dismissed the allegations, saying he was not aware of the context in which the vice-chancellor made the statement. Health minister KR Ramesh Kumar in Hubballi said: “It's possible (referring to the suitcase comment) since Vidhana   is not a Gangotri. But details have to be given on who took the suitcase to whom and when, and how much cash was there.'' Hampi Kannada University was founded in 1991 and Mallika Ghanti took charge as the vicechancellor in 2015. In 2016, she had alleged that the government was neglecting the university while framing policies and programmes to protect the land, water and borders of the state. “It is painful to go with a begging bowl in our own home,'' she had said.
 
