GURUGRAM: The Gurgaon administration is likely to get an   as early as next week.

 The state government, sources said, will announce a fresh set of   after Gurgaon hosts the Pravasi Haryana Diwas on January 10 and 11 and T L   could be on his way out.
 
 The 2002-batch IAS officer took charge as deputy commissioner of Gurgaon in November 2014, soon after the BJP government came to power in in Haryana. Subsequently, he was also handed the reins of the MCG, which saw a vast expansion of its functions during his tenure as the state initiated transfer of sectors from Huda to the civic body for maintenance.
 
 The sources said Satyaprakash could be on his way to Chandigarh. The two names doing the rounds as frontrunners to succeed him as deputy commissioner are those of  , currently additional deputy commissioner, and Makrand Pandurang, a 2007-batch IAS officer. Pandurang is currently posted as deputy commissioner of Sonipat.
 
 Senior IAS officer V Umashankar, who was recently appointed officer on special duty for the proposed Gurgaon Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA), is likely to be given charge of the MCG.
 
 The sources said Satyaprakash would be shifted to the state capital with a promotion. They said the transfer and promotion of Satyaprakash had been approved ‘in principle’ at a meeting chaired by chief minister   on Tuesday. The order in this regard is likely to be issued after January 12.
 
 “The deputy commissioner is currently supervising the revision of electoral rolls and, according to rules, he cannot be transferred without approval from the Election Commission,” said a senior government official, who refused to be named. “The revised electoral roll will be published on January 10. Satyaprakash is also supervising arrangements for the Pravasi Haryana Diwas,” the officer added.
 
 Sources in Chandigarh said if Pandurang joins as Gurgaon’s deputy commissioner, Singh could replace him in Sonipat.
 
 Citizens’ groups and RWAs in Gurgaon would look at the developments closely after working with Satyaprakash, widely acknowledged as an honest and upright officer. His tenure, though, hasn’t been without its share of controversy, primarily because of administrative lapses that led to the city remaining gridlocked for 20 hours on July 28 and 29 last year, which came to be derisively described as Gurujam by social media users.
 
 Satyaprakash was, however, the only government officer who apologised for the mess and vowed a course correction. He also promised a roadmap to help the city improve its infrastructure so that there is no incident like a Gurujam in future.
 
 
