NAVI MUMBAI: A resident of Nanavali village in   taluka of Raigad district, Geeta Wadhai (45), has moved the   against Vijay Kalantri, the chairman and managing director of Balaji Infra Projects Ltd for alleged environmental destruction in the vicinity. The company has developed the   in Shrivardhan.

 Wadhai has stated that the first respondent (Kalantri) has dumped rocks and other excavated earth materials from neighbouring Dighi in front of her house property at Nanavali, This has damaged the biodiversity on the seashore there, she claimed. She also alleged that a hill in Dighi has been cut and blasted for installing oil storage tanks without taking valid permissions.
 
 However, Kalantri has claimed all due permissions were taken with regard to the Dighi port site. “No environmental violations have been committed. The allegedly damaged seashore was always a rocky terrain, and the rocks are behind her house, not in front, as claimed by her,’’ said Kalantri.
 
 Wadhai responded that she has submitted “photographic proof” of the seashore destruction by dumping rocks in front of her house to  . The next hearing on March 4 was postponed to March 30, as the applicant's lawyer was absent.
 
 Wadhai has also blamed other respondents like Maharashtra Maritime Board, Maharashtra Coastal Zone Management Authority, Maharashtra State Biodiversity Board, Shrivardhan tehsildar and sub-divisional officer and the   for neglecting their duties to allow Kalantri to make the alleged violations.
 
 Shrivardhan tehsildar, Jairaj Suryavanshi, said, “We carried out an inspection at Dighi and Nanavali earlier this year based on the NGT case and will submit the same to the court. The matter is subjudice.’’
 
 Another senior Raigad district official said that the district collectorate had earlier fined the port developers to the tune of Rs 42 crore from 2009 to 2014 for doing earth excavations without paying royalty. But Kalantri managed to get a stay from the high court.
 
 “This fine over earth excavations is wrong and absurd. We have furnished the GR of revision of policy of ports and jetties, which stated granting industry status to ports and exemption from payment of royalty for earth excavation. We are being harassed,” said Kalantri. 
 
 Kalantri also mentioned that Wadhai applied to NGT for the second time. “This amounts to harassment. We had paid her a cheque of Rs 30 lakh to take over her property, but the deal fell through. But she did not return the cheque amount.’’
 
 Wadhai responded, “I did not take any cheque from Kalantri. He can submit the details in court if he has the proof.’’
 
 
