Sanitary napkin dispensing machines and incinerators are not only ensuring that girls stay in school but also providing some relief to the government by not letting the   end up in landfills where they are eventually manually segregated. 

 The two separate units have recently been installed at Shri Shantadurga Higher Secondary School, Bicholim by the   of Bicholim. These have also been fitted at the Panaji police station, Narayan Zantye College of Commerce, Bicholim, MES College and the   among other higher secondary schools and colleges, by the Rotary Club of Panjim Riviera. At the Goa College of Home Science, Panaji, the students who travel from as far as Bicholim and Sanquelim no longer have to panic in the case of an emergency. 
 
 They just have to slip in a Rs 5 coin in the vending machine that has been fitted outside the ladies bathroom, to receive a sanitary napkin. The incinerator has been installed inside the bathroom and the college has made it compulsory for students to dispose of their pads there. 
 
 Gauravi Shirodkar, assistant professor of food, nutrition and dietetics who is also in charge of the health watch club of the college, says a demonstration is held for the students no sooner they join the course. "They are also encouraged to dispose of the pads in the incinerator by themselves, instead of leaving it to the cleaners," she says. 
 
 Once incinerated the ashes that are collected in the machine are disposed off. 
 
 The machines have especially been sponsored for the girl students' convenience and to ensure proper disposal of sanitary napkins after use, says Raja Melvani, immediate past president of Rotary Club of Panaji Riviera. 
 
 Due to the lack of access to sanitation facilities, more than 20 percent of adolescent girls in the country drop out of school when they are menstruating.
 
 The club invests in the machine and it is up to each institution to replenish the pads. 
 
 A large quantity of sanitary napkins and pampers are disposed off every month, proving to be a major challenge in garbage disposal for civic authorities. 
 
