 residents are about to lose an over five-decade-old kindergarten, to  , which is going to be built at a plot adjoining the Mayor's bungalow. The   plans to take back the plot, located near the bungalow, that it had leased to Keraleeya Mahila Samaj as it is going to be developed as a part of the memorial. The plot has had a kindergarten for 55 years, which has educated four generations of Shivaji Park residents.

 Apart from being a landmark, the play school stands for countless fond memories for the Shivaji Park residents. While there are several play schools in the vicinity, the school, currently called  , is the most-favoured one.
 
 "This school is an asset to Shivaji Park. Other play schools and preschools today have flat and claustrophobic classrooms. But this one stands apart as it has a little garden with swings, a seesaw and a play area where kids are taught to commune with nature. If Bal Thackeray were alive he wouldn't have deprived kindergarten children to give way for a memorial of his," said Ila Kaji whose grandchild attends the school.
 
 Kapil Kakodkar, another Shivaji Park resident, has a connection with the school, which dates back to the time of its inception. "My mother Kamal was the first nursery school teacher here.The school was then called Balodyan," he said.
 
 "It was closer to home and there were few students. Students who studied in nursery and KG at this school would easily get an admission at Bombay Scottish and Don Bosco schools during those days. Not only me, but my two sons also went to this school. There also used to be tabla and sitar classes," he said.
 
 Siddharth Chury, a resident of MB Raut Road said that there are bigger and fancier brands to choose from today, but he prefers the simplicity of this particular school for his four-yearold son, Avigna.
 
 "The school focuses on hands-on learning by letting children interact with nature. Where else can we find this today? For example, they ask parents to get seeds. Teachers sow seeds in the garden and children help them with it. Other schools will just show a picture.
 
 "Here, children play hockey and football. We just want to continue the tradition of sending our children to this school. For parents who prefer quality of education over a brand name, this will be a huge loss," Chury said.
 
 Keraleeya Mahila Samaj moved court last year challenging the Vacant Land Tenancy (VLT) notice of March 26, 2016. The HC said in an interim order that "no coercive action" shall be taken against the school. The BMC, in its notice to Keraleeya Mahila Samaj had said that the government has decided to develop the late Balasaheb Thackeray Smarak at the mayor's bungalow, and the 574 sq metres land in its possession in the area nearby.
 
 "We have offered two alternative places to run the school Taikalwadi near Raja Bade Chowk and the other near Kohinoor institute, which is close to Dadar station. But Keraleeya Mahila Samaj isn't willing to accept the options. The court is adjourned till June," said Ramakant Biradar, assistant municipal commissioner, G (North) ward.
 
 
