KOLKATA: Preliminary laboratory tests conducted by   of Animal and Fishery Sciences indicated the “plastic egg” samples had calcium carbonate in their shells. The lab report on the yolk will be out on Wednesday.

 The shells tested did not have any plastic (broadly any synthetic or semi-synthetic organic compounds), they are therefore fit for human consumption, experts said.
 
 Kolkata Municipal Corporation MMiC (Health) Atin Ghosh, said, “The preliminary reports suggest the eggshells do not have any plastic. There is no reason to panic, yet. We are keeping a close watch on the developments. As the final report is awaited, we will continue our sporadic drives on specific complaints of spurious eggs.”
 
 The development came on the same day when a complaint came from Panchasayer off E M Bypass. Some residents of a posh apartment complex claimed they were sold spurious eggs by a leading mall, a charge denied by the mall owners.
 
 The Kolkata Police enforcement branch already probing the plastic egg allegations are now in a spot. An FIR has been drawn at Karaya police station in this regard under IPC sections — 420 (cheating), 120B (criminal conspiracy) and 273 (sale of noxious food or drink).
 
 On Friday, Karaya egg seller Md Shamim Ansari was arrested based on a complaint by a local Anita Kumar. Ansari named two persons, Sumit Deb and Gour Chakraborty, who sold him the eggs. Both were questioned. Deb,owner of SRD Enterprises in Sealdah’s wholesale market, is also the nephew of   leader Rabin Deb. He denied all charges.
 
 The enforcement branch also questioned two major egg wholesalers and stockist. A third is likely to be summoned soon. “Should the lab tests reveal anything to the contrary, we will move the court,” a senior police officer said.
 
 Chief minister   also indicated the cops will flush out the   mongers should these allegations turn baseless. According to a source, allegations of plastic egg are not new. They had surfaced in Kerala in October. The Kerala Food Safety commissioner, had then confirmed the samples tested were real eggs, but rotten. Apparently, the texture of eggs change after being exposed to different temperatures over time.
 
