NAGPUR: With the electronic voting machines (EVMs) technically known as ballot units, sealed for polling, some candidates have raised objections on lack of Voter-Verified Paper Audit Trail (VVPAT) in the EVMs and one EVM for each 151 seats. The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has rejected the objections citing no such directives from the state election commission (SEC).

 The NMC has sealed all EVMs with candidates and their respective parties symbols on Friday and Saturday. All EVMs will be brought to the polling stations on Monday. While sealing the EVMs, the election officers invited candidates of their representatives to check the EVMs.
 
  candidate from ward no. 2 Shalu Anil Nagre raised objection on lack of VVPAT in the EVMs. She also registered a written complaint with the NMC.
 
 “Supreme Court passed orders to the Election Commission of India for ensuring VVPAT in the EVMs on October 8, 2013. It was unfortunate to see EVMs lacking VVPAT. This is a violation of the apex court’s orders. The NMC should ensure VVPAT for transparency in voting,” Nagre said.
 
 The Election Commission of India had introduced VVPAT system in   elections on trial basis in some polling stations. The Election Commission of India is also utilizing VVPAT in some polling stations in ongoing assembly elections in six states.
 
 The NMC, in its reply to Nagre, said provisions of VVPAT system were not made by the SEC in its system. “Therefore, there is no VVPAT system in any EVMs,” the NMC said.
 
 Candidates of major political parties also felt VVPAT in EVMs was necessary.   candidate from ward no. 38 Praful Gudadhe said there are complaints from candidates after every election about problems in EVMs. “Candidates in recent municipal council elections also alleged tampering in EVMs. VVPAT would have cleared confusion among candidates and voters,” he said.
 
 NCP candidate from ward no. 14 Sumidha   said VVPAT was a must to ensure transparency in polling. “There are no options for candidates to counter check exact polling done by voters. Candidates would have got chance to raise objection and get satisfied through VVPAT system. Even voter would have been satisfied by seeing himself/herself to whom vote was cast,” she said.
 
 In VVPAT system, a slip comes out of EVM after casting vote. The slip shows to whom the voter have voted. The voter has to then drop the slip in a ballot box. Slips are counted in case any candidates raise objection.
 
 Meanwhile, objections related to change in polling system swelled up. The NMC had earlier informed the candidates that there would be one EVM for each seat. Thus, there were supposed to be four EVMs for four seats in a ward. Voter was supposed to cast one vote in each EVM.
 
 As per SEC directives, the NMC revised the system and it was decided that there will be 2-4 EVMs in a ward depending upon number of candidates.
 
 Independent candidate from ward no. 9 Anil Khaparde raised series objections and demanded one EVM for each seat. He even allegedly created ruckus while sealing the EVMs. Another independent candidate from ward no. 15 advocate Pradeep Agrawal raised the same objection.
 
 BSP state secretary   sent a letter to the SEC alleging revised system will hamper the voting percentage. “Voters will be confused if candidates of four seats displayed in continuous manner. SEC should step in and ensure one EVM for each seat,” he said.
 
