DHARAMSHALA: Even as   Donald Trump has maintained silence on the issue of Tibet, a US Congressional delegation reached here on a two-day visit on Tuesday. Led by House of Representatives’ top Democratic leader Nancy Pelosi, the eight member delegation includes Jim Sensenbrenner, Eliot Engel, Jim McGovern, BettyMcCollum, Judy Chu, Joyce Beatty and Pramila Jayapal.

 Pelosi, a former Speaker of the House of Representatives, is a long-time supporter of the Tibetan cause and last visited Dharamshala in Himachal Pradesh in 2008. On Tuesday, he held discussions with spiritual leader Dalai Lama (81) for two and half hours. Pelosi said that their visit was inspired by Dalai Lama and it demonstrates their commitment towards Tibetans and their culture. 
 
 Earlier, the US delegation was received at the Gaggal airport near here by Central Tibetan Administration (CTA) secretary of International Relations Sonam Dagpo and information secretary Dhardon Shearling. From there they headed straight to Dalai Lama’s place. The delegation will also meet CTA president and prime minister   
 
 Terming the meeting as crucial, Lobsang Sangay said that, “They had to come earlier, but later it was decided that they will first visit Tibet and then will come here.” Sangay said that arrival of this delegation will not only boost the morale of Tibetans but it will have impact inside Tibet too. When asked to comment on Trump getting cosier with Chinese president, he said: “Does not matter. President Obama too had meetings with them, but they dealt with us also. It is a big thing for Tibetans that a bipartisan delegation is here.”
 
 A public felicitation in honour of the delegation will be held on Wednesday at Tsuglakhang temple in McLeodganj. Dalai Lama will also take part in the function. The delegation is scheduled to leave by afternoon on Wednesday. 
 
 Well placed sources said that it held a separate meeting with Tibetan women leaders here. They visited Tibetan secretariat and parliament and met the elected leaders and other representatives of administration. They had dinner at the Tibetan Institute of Performing Arts (TIPA). On Wednesday, they will also have a breakfast meeting with Tibetan NGOs here. 
 
