THIRUVANANTHAPURAM:   Pinarayi Vijayan, on Monday, chose to give vent to his anger against the media for assembling at the hotel venue where he was supposed to hold a peace talk with BJP-RSS leaders and his own party men. The meeting was scheduled to restore peace in the state, which was witnessing political violence over the past few weeks.

 A visibly-upset Vijayan – who arrived at the venue with CPM state secretary   – scolded a hotel employee first for the media’s presence at the meeting hall. He then stood in front of the half-closed door and ordered the journalists to exit the hall. Even as they filed out of the room, he repeated two words: Get out.
 
 Though media personnel waited outside the venue and repeatedly sought an explanation from Vijayan for his rude behaviour, he only explained the outcome of the discussions, without responding to questions over the ‘get out’ remark.
 
 Balakrishnan, tried to play down the incident, later excused himself from making a statement. “Usually, media is not allowed at such meetings,” he said. Balakrishnan hurried towards his vehicle when journalists told him that photographers were present at the venue to click pictures CPM-BJP-RSS leaders sharing dais ahead of the peace meeting.
 
 The normal practice is that media is either allowed to click pictures for a minute or two before they are asked to leave the place. Otherwise, the government would inform in advance that no media presence was required at the meeting.
 
 When criticism mounted against Vijayan’s behaviour, his office clarified that no media presence was intended at the meeting. “Media was not invited to the hotel where the talk was scheduled. They were not even expected to click pictures. Such a meeting cannot be conducted in media’s presence. The chief minister asked them to move out as they were already inside the hall when he arrived,” CMO said.
 
 Meanwhile, CPI state secretary   asked the media not to take Vijayan’s jibe at face value. “He might have used a rural lingo to convey the message. Same thing can be said in many ways. You need not to take it seriously,” he said.
 
 However, Kerala Union of Working Journalists, condemned the chief minister’s behaviour and urged him to ‘understand the ramification’ of his words. “If leaders themselves start behaving like this, news gathering would become a strenuous experience for journalists. If the government did not wish our presence, it should have been conveyed in advance. Else, they could have asked the media to leave the place in a civilised manner,” said the union in a statement issued here.
 
