NAGPUR: With rising urbanization and disintegration of joint families, even the crime against   are increasing at a rapid pace. Nearly thousand offences took place against them in last five years in city that included 36 murders and 212 robberies. If this is not enough 449 cases of assault against such citizens were reported, where some were made by their own sons and daughters. In their twilight years, they were duped in as many as 246 cases. All these shocking statistics were revealed through an   query by activist Abhay Kolarkar, thus raising a big question on safety and security. 

 The city witnessed some of the brutal killings of senior citizens, including that of architect Eknath Nimgade (74), who shot dead at in Gandhibagh in broad daylight on September 6 last year. Despite tall claims, the police failed to nab the culprits till date which forced the Nagpur bench of   to handover the probe to  . 
 
 According to police sources, not only of Nimgade, but many other cases of killing of senior citizens still remained a mystery. It included two in last year and one in 2015. A case of Vasundhara Bal's murder, who was strangulated to death at her Tatya Tope Nagar residence on October 7, 2015, is still unsolved, while investigations in killing of 62-yr-old Roshni Petkar has drawn a flak.
 
 The senior citizens were covered under ‘Maintenance and Welfare of Parental Senior Citizen Act, 2007’ wherein police are supposed to provide security to them.
 
 The reply submitted by assistant police commissioner (crime) Nilesh Raut stated that the ‘senior citizens’ assistance cell’ is operating in Nagpur commissionerate since December 02, 2005, and similar cells are operating in all city police stations. So far about 4,700 citizens are registered and were provided with identity cards. A 24-hour helpline (0712-2564333) is also in operation where they can call during the emergency.
 
 Raut added that teams from crime branch and respective police stations visit 10-12 families of senior citizens every day and interact with them regarding their grievances. In every three months, a meeting is organized for such elders which are addressed by the senior cops.
 
 
