VADODARA: M S University on Friday constituted a four member inquiry committee to probe allegations against former dean of Faculty of Arts professor P S Choondawat in connection with the PhD scam.

  vice-chancellor professor Parimal Vyas constituted the committee comprising of professor   as convenor, Shagufa Kapadia, Dinesh Kanchan as members and Mayank Vyas as member secretary. “The committee has not been given any terms of reference as the letter itself is self explanatory,” Vyas told TOI.It was on Wednesday that advocate Shailesh Amin had made a representation before MSU officials alleging that Choondawat as head of   had cleared a PhD thesis which was plagiarised. 
 
 Choondawat as PhD guide allegedly cleared a thesis of professor Chandramani More from K M Shah Dental College and Hospital, Sumandeep Vidyapeeth who had plagiarised entire thesis of his student Dr Krushna Thakkar. In December 2009 Thakkar, who was then a student of master of dental surgery in oral medicine and radiology, had submitted her dissertation titled ‘An epidemiological study of tobacco and arecanut use, its effect on oral health and determining specific age and gender in rural area of Waghodia taluka, Vadodara district’. 
 
 Professor More, head of the department, was her guide. Later, More himself submitted his PhD on the same subject titled ‘Social and cultural aspect of tobacco and arecanut use in Gujarat: a sociological study’ under Choondawat’s guidance in October 2011. Amin, who has demanded that the university should immediately sack Choondawat and register a police complaint, has alleged that even as More had plagiarised around 100 pages from Thakkar’s dissertation, Choondawat had certified it as original work. 
 
 Choondawat was recently arrested by Jodhpur’s anti-corruption bureau in connection to a teachers recruitment scam at Jai Narayan Vyas University. 
 
 While MSU had suspended him after his arrest, the university’s syndicate members had done a flip-flop by revoking the suspension order based on a request made by Choondawat who had stated that the cops had not found anything concrete against him in the recruitment scam. 
 
