JODHPUR: Ecstatic with the recovery of long-pending urban development tax, the   ( ) has now decided to go ahead with all its guns blazing. 

 Having published the names of the number of tax evaders in the newspapers in first phase to warn the evaders, the JMC is now preparing to mention their names on the hoardings to be mounted on important circles of the city and drag them to the public notice for their habitual evasion of tax.
 
 JMC commissioner   said that the JMC was going to further tighten its noose around the tax evaders who are constantly being informed and advised to pay their due taxes and take advantage of the relief being provided on outstanding taxes.
 
 In its next move, the JMC has now decided to publically shame them by sending drum players at the tax evading organization, institutions and business ventures, who will play drums in front of these buildings in order to bring them to the notice of public as tax evaders.
 
 The special drive of the JMC to recover outstanding UD tax has bore fruits bringing over Rs. 5 cores in the coffers of the JMC in past two weeks. Encouraged by this recovery, the JMC has now been planning to put in more focused efforts to increase the collection of taxes.
 
 JMC has set an ambitious target of recovery of Rs. 100 crores UD tax this financial year, which though appear to be an impractical target, but the consistent efforts of the JMC has given some hope to it.
 
 The JMC is also going full throttle focusing on big evaders, which include commercial establishments, public establishments, educational institutions, hospitals, marriage places etc. and has recovered the taxes from them by sending teams on revenue officials on the spot and failing to get the recovery of taxes, the teams have not been hesitating to seize the properties.
 
 Nakate said that the UD tax was the main source of income for the JMC and in absence of this money, the development of the city was getting affected appealing people to readily deposit their outstanding taxes and contribute to the developmet of the their city.
 
 
