Pune: The way the BJP has emerged victorious in   and   municipal corporation elections, all other parties, including the NCP, need a thorough analysis. 

 BJP’s success in both the corporations is noteworthy. One has to study the various reasons behind this win. It is interesting to see whether the policy of importing candidates and established leaderships from other parties has benefited the BJP or the credit goes to the party’s organizational structure. The picture will be clear in a couple of days. 
 
 In case of Pune, the BJP has strong organizational structure and active party workers. But, what about Pimpri Chinchwad? The party does not have a stronghold there. There are many reasons to believe that the credit goes to the ‘import policy’.
 
 In both PMC and PCMC, ruling NCP has lost the power, but the defeat has been more dreadful for the MNS and the Congress. The MNS had done well in the last   in Pune. Anti-establishment phenomenon had helped the MNS gain the seats, but the success turned out to be short lived. 
 
 In last five years, Shiv Sena has come out of its shell and overpowered the MNS. Sena fought assembly elections without an alliance with the BJP and turned out successful. That proved that it is Uddhav, and not Raj, who is carrying forward the true legacy of Bal Thackeray. Even though the MNS has suffered the loss in this election, Sena has not gained either. The BJP seems to have gained the MNS votes, at least in the current election.
 
 The most remarkable characteristic of the results is Congress’s disappointing performance. Congress has been defeated like never before. When any party loses, it concentrates on evaluation and working towards bouncing back. But Pune Congress neither has a revival instinct nor a survival instinct. The party does not have a central leadership nor a collective one in the city. 
 
 The Pune Congress had been led by Suresh Kalmadi for many years. But after his political exile, the party is experiencing a great void.
 
 The writer is a political analyst
 
 
