 NAGPUR: City police have began working on the enforcement of section 57 of the   Act, 1951 by which a convicted person can be externed out of city for a period of minimum two years even if there is only one offence against the individual.
 
 The latest strategy has been adopted by Zonal DCP   to ensure the convicts, mostly the goons, are kept away from city limits even after walking out of prison completing the   under any conviction. 
 
 DCP Kadam, issuing an instruction to six police stations of Ganeshpeth, Kotwali, Tehsil, Shantinagar, Pachpaoli and Lakadganj under him, have urged the senior inspectors to identify five convicted goons within their limits who had returned after serving a jail term under conviction.
 
 The sole aim of implementing the scheme is to ensure that the city remains free of goons having past records. As per the law, police can take action of externment against such persons who have a crime registered against him or her for either a body offence like murder, attempt to murder, hurt, assault and such or robberies, dacoity,   and such property related cases. 
 
 Kadam said, “The police station in-charges have been asked to send five cases of convicted individuals for scrutiny whom we would try to evict from city and rural district even after their jail terms are over. The appropriate case studies of the convicted goons would be done before we earmark each of them for externment. These goons often act behind the scenes rather than coming to fore in the action. Also, the presence of goons in an area can itself be a threatening for the citizens which we want to curb. Let citizens have a secured feeling and the city remains free of the influence of the goons,” he said.
 
 A section of the cops said such externment of convicts will go a long way in making the city crime free. “Many   their crime and conviction records to extort money, usurp properties, grab lands of the commoners and also boost morale of the anti-social elements flourishing under them,” said a senior officer. “These convicted goons can be also considered dangerous for societies as they make alliances and link-ups in the jails with fellow inmates of their likes and start operating as gangs once walking out of jail. Apart from abetting crimes as mentors, these goons also provide various logistics support to their fellow inmates who are still inside like helping them to raise money and arrange for lawyers for bails and so on,” said the experienced officer. 
 
 
