TRICHY: Authorities have made elaborate arrangements to divert vehicles at the outskirts of Trichy city on the occasion of the consecration at Samayapuram Mariamman Temple. The diversion will be in effect till 10am, Tuesday.

 All the vehicles, including buses plying between Trichy-Salem route, should take an alternative route through   7, Geeyapuram, Pettavaithalai, Kulithalai, Musiri and Thottiyam. Vehicles from Salem and Namakkal routes will be diverted from Musiri and will be allowed to take Kulithalai to Kudamurutti Check Post 7 routes for both the trips. 
 
 Police will divert vehicles from Ariyalur route to Trichy at Kathiri Bridge in Pullambadi and will allow them to pass through Sangenthi, Thachankurichi, Irungalur, Kaikatti and NH 45. 
 
 In order to ensure convenience to devotees, temporary bus stands have been set up around Samayapuram. Other buses should not be stopped at the bay meant for Perambalur buses. Instead, they should be parked at a temporary stand near Aattu Santhai. Buses from Chennai to Trichy should drop passengers at this bus stand.
 
 Buses proceeding through A Thuraiyur from Samayapuram will be stationed at a provisional bus stand near Muktheeswarar temple. Likewise, buses from Thuraiyur to Samayapuram through Mannachanallur will be stopped at Om Shakthi Nagar.
 
 Cars of devotees should be parked at the backside of Aattumanthai. Devotees should reach the place through Sellandi Amman temple. They have been instructed to park two-wheelers at the Samayapuram New Bus Stand.
 
 Passengers dropped at the Aattusanthai Temporary Bus Stand have to reach Theradi veethi through Bhojarajan temple, Pudhu Theru, Vaara Santhai and Santhai Gate. Devotees should return to the bus stand through Naganathar Tea Stall Cut Road, Annanagar, Singaravel Nagar Cut Road and Mariamman School.
 
 Holy water for Kumbabhishekagam will be sprinkled on the devotees at 42 places. They will be allowed free darsan from 9am to 11pm. 
 
 Temporary toilet facilities have been set up at Aattusanthai Bus Stand, Om Sakthi Nagar and near Vijaya Petrol Bunk. 
 
