NEW DELHI: After the Supreme Court-appointed committee of administrators (COA) asked the BCCI’s full-member associations to revert by March 1 with names of its current office-bearers and members of the governing body or managing committee or working committee, the   came up with a very insinuating reply, thus making it clear that more than 20 of them are still defying the Lodha committee’s reforms and not in a mood to accept them.

 Responding to the letter written to the state associations by the COA on February 22, the first line of the letter mentioned how the SC appointed committee is supposed to “primarily ensure compliance of the Judgment and Order dated 18.7.2016” and then said that the SC approved reforms “do not affect the composition of the state cricket associations”. They also “clarified that the rights of members of the State associations under Article 19 (1) (c ) of the constitution of India continues to remain protected.”
 
 To this, the COA expressed great surprise to see how the state units could defy the law of the land so openly. What surprised them most was the manner in which the   full members questioned the COA. The letter reminded how   and his team of administrators are to adopt the Lodha committee’s report when the state association, which are registered under various statutes, are told to do so despite the applications in the apex court. And, in view of that the state mentioned how they are protected Article 19(1) (c) and 19(1) (g) of the constitution of India. 
 
 “Needless to state that we will await further directions/orders in this matter from the   in this regard. This communication is without prejudice to all our rights and contentions in law. You may also note that the jurisdiction of the Committee of Administrators does not extend to the constituent units of the BCCI i.e. the state associations,” the letter said.
 
 The states affiliated units raised the question the lack of clarity on the nine-year term for the office-bearers, whether it would be read as nine years separately at state and BCCI or nine years cumulatively. The BCCI full members also categorically informed the COA that they “cannot be accepted by our association and is without jurisdiction and not in furtherance of any orders of the Hon’ble Supreme Court.”
 
 “Admittedly, the committee has apparently received some information and advice due to which it is facing a lack of clarity on the exact scope and extent of the disqualifications in terms of order dated 2nd, 3rd and 20th January, 2017.
 
 “Under these circumstances, many Associations have filed applications for directions in the Hon’ble Supreme Court with a request that the main applications may be heard and decided at the earliest so that the legal position of the   recommendations regarding the state associations and their members rights guaranteed under Articles 19 (1) (c) and 19(1) (g) may be clarified and contrary directions recalled,” the letter read.
 
 In order to bring in their own methodology to bring in transparency, the state bodies have proposed creating their own website within weeks. The states also complained about how they haven’t “received any grants / disbursements from the BCCI post October 2016”. “Even the share of media rights amounting to approx Rs. 16 crores received from BCCI has been kept in a fixed deposit, as directed by the Hon’ble Supreme Court, in a nationalised bank and the principle amount and the interest thereon is not touched by the association. 
 
 “In fact the amounts belong to this association and not to the BCCI and deserve to be released at the earliest for which a prayer has already been made before the Hon’ble Supreme Court. Non release of the money is adversely affecting the cricketing operations of the organization and the development of the game of cricket,” the letter said.
 
