CHANDIGARH: On March 11, the day when assembly election results will be declared,   chief Captain   will either have reason to hold the grandest birthday bash ever at the   in Patiala or it will be the most forgettable day of his life. As fate would have it, March 11happens to be his 75th birthday .A grand birthday bash had been organized for Amarinder in 2012 as that was the first time in more than 150 years that a member of the Patiala royal family had crossed the ripe age of 70. At the time, most people had expected Congress to sweep the election and the birthday party was supposed to celebrate the electoral win as well.

 However, in a stunning reversal, the Shiromani Akali Dal-BJP combine shocked everyone and won a second term just a couple of days before Amarinder's birthday . despite the sulk in the Congress, a grand party was organized at a relative's farmhouse in Delhi.
 
 Winning the 2017 election is even more crucial for Amarinder as he has said more than once that this will be his last election after which he would like to hand over charge of the party in Punjab to a younger generation of leaders. For the last six months he has been increasingly seen with his grandson Nirvan who many expect will take over the political legacy of the erstwhile roy al family .
 
 Although Amarinder hasn't said it in as many words, close aides say he would like to end his last innings in politics with a win.“Welcome the  's announcement of the elections dates. We are ready ,“ Amarinder cautiously tweeted. For a change, he chose not to attack his opponents with whom he has had some caustic exchanges in recent days.
 
 Punjab is seen as the best bet for Congress to win a state in the midst of the BJP surge, but the fact remains that the Grand Old Party hasn't officially declared Amarinder as the chief ministerial candidate for the polls. This despite the fact that, poll strategist Prashant Kishor has designed the entire campaign around him. AAP convener   has used this to attack Amarinder, claiming that the former chief minister is being used to keep the seat warm for cricketer-turnedpolitician Navjot Singh Sidhu.
 
 Amarinder has said in the past that he is not a politician by choice, and that his first love is military history , cooking and gardening.
 
