New Delhi: Tarh Peeju had jumped into the raging Pachin river in Naharlagun, Arunachal Pradesh, to save two of her friends from drowning. While the nine-year-old managed to save her friends, she herself was washed away. 

 This brave Arunachali posthumously won the Bharat Award, the highest National Bravery Award, announced on Tuesday. 
 
 Two schoolgirls from Darjeeling, West Bengal, were awarded the Geeta Chopra Award for helping the police to bust an Indo-Nepal human trafficking racket. Tejasweeta Pradhan (18) and Shivani Gond (17) had managed to win the trust of the criminals and got them arrested. 
 
 Altogether 25 children from various parts of the country won the bravery awards in various categories, 10 of them for saving people from drowning.
 
 Child actor Naman Beniwal from Delhi got to play a real-life hero when he saved a boy from drowning in Bawana canal. “I have acted in various serials based on bravery and law. When I was in a real situation, all the lessons I had learnt while acting came in handy,” Beniwal said. 
 
 Binil Manjaly from Kerala was returning home from a movie when his sister Merin saw a 10-year-old boy wailing and calling out for help. “Three of the boy’s family members were drowning in Periyar Canal. Before my family could decide what to do, I jumped into the water. I managed to save a woman but couldn’t find the others, despite a frantic search,” Manjaly said. 
 
 A brother-sister duo from Delhi said they noticed two men inside their house when they got back after school. “We didn’t waste any time and barged in. They attacked us with hammers but that didn’t stop us. While one of them managed to escape, we caught hold of the other and raised an alarm. He was arrested,” said Akshit and Akshita Sharma.
 
 There were some other gritty tales too. Praful Sharma (13) from Himachal Pradesh saved over 20 children by stopping a bus that had moved ahead towards a cliff. Sonu (9) saved a classmate from being bitten by a four-foot cobra. Sonu pushed his friend away, grabbed the snake and threw it away. 
 
 Among those who won posthumous honours were Roluahpuii (13) from Mizoram and Payal Devi (12) from Jammu and Kashmir. Roluahpuii saved her brother from being run over by a car but was crushed in the process. Payal was washed away in a flash flood while trying to save three people. 
 
 The winners will be conferred the award on January 24. They will also participate in the   on January 26.
 
