AURANGABAD: A section of stakeholders have raised a demand for the   of Marathwada  , which is one of the largest in the state spread over 76 talukas of eight districts from the region. 

 The region has two state universities and is also proposed to have two divisional commissionerates, likewise the demand has been made for two constituencies. 
 
 Subhash Maher, general secretary of the MNS led association of teaching and non-teaching staff, said that the division of Marathwada teachers constituency is being sought in the best interest of the voters.
 
 “Due to the large geographical spread, teachers find it difficult to pursue their demands and raise issues with competent leaders and authorities. The bifurcation would solve this problem,” he said. 
 
 Echoing similar views, Namdev Sonawane, executive president of the teachers body affiliated to Shiv Sena, said that small constituencies would benefit voters. “It is a valid demand to bifurcate Marathwada teachers constituency, as it would be in the best interest of teachers and education sector as a whole. The number of schools and associated teachers has increased multi-fold post formation of Marathwada teachers constituency, and this can be another basis for separation,” he said. 
 
 Yunus Patel, who is fighting Marathwada teachers constituency polls under the banner of  , said that the state government and the   should consider the demand for bifurcation positively.
 
 “The need for bifurcation is being felt growingly by many stakeholders and the concerned demand should be discussed at an official level,” he said. 
 
 A section of stakeholders said that the jurisdiction of two state universities should be considered as boundaries for the proposed division of teachers constituencies in the region. While Dr   has jurisdiction over Aurangabad, Beed, Jalna and Osmanabad district, Swami Ramanand Teerth Marathwada (SRTM), Nanded, has purview over Nanded, Latur, Hingoli and Parbhani districts. 
 
 Rajesh Hiwale, spokesperson of the state-level association of primary teachers associated with Zilla Parishad-run schools, said that all teachers constituencies in Maharashtra need to be split considering the increase in the number of teachers. “The need is more pressing for Marathwada. Just like two separate commissionerates are being proposed for Marathwada, two teachers constituencies are must for the benefit of stakeholders,” he said. 
 
 When contacted, the poll panel authorities could not be reached for comments. Whereas the senior officials from election branch of Aurangabad divisional commissionerate said that it was a policy decision to be taken by the Election Commission.
 
 As per the official data, Aurangabad has maximum voters (10,789) followed by Latur (10,120) and Beed (8,756). Other districts namely Nanded (8,545), Osmanabad (5,482), Jalna (4,465), Parbhani (4,374) and Hingoli (2,546) too have a sizable number of voters for the upcoming elections. 
 
