GURUGRAM: Literature festivals are a dime a dozen these days but very few would be dedicated wholly to kids. Now, this weekend will see the city host its first festival of  .

 The  , at Vega School, will feature  , authors and illustrators, each with the precious gift of bringing a story alive. And beyond the written word, there will be a chance to meet ‘live’ fictional characters, enjoy a  , ‘doodle’ on a wall, and (for those who love ghosts!) get immersed in a ‘spooky story’.
 
 “The purpose of the festival is to make reading entertaining for children and encourage parents to build a ‘reading’ relationship with their child,” shared Sandy Hooda, co-founder, Vega Schools.
 
 Research has shown that reading not only gives wings to kids’ imaginations but helps them stay rooted to their culture, while at the same time exposing them to other cultures. And by allowing them to step into the shoes of fictional characters, reading also helps children develop empathy.
 
 Among the authors taking part are Benita Sen, who has written over 40 books for children (fact and fiction), and Himanjali Sankar, whose ‘The Stupendous Timetelling Superdog’ won an award for children’s writing in 2013. 
 
 Also participating is Haimanti Mitra, who comes to children’s writing via advertising and the social sector. ‘Magical Forest’, her first book, mines the wonderful folk tales of India’s jungles and forests.
 
 Of course, the fest places great emphasis on the art of storytelling, using the talents of Kamal Pruthi — someone who is versed in the art of storytelling, and is able to seamlessly combine the folk and the contemporary — and Yuveka Singh of the Delhi Storytellers’ Network, who founded ‘Darwesh’, a storytelling organisation that seeks to promote education and culture among both adults and children.
 
 “The city has scores of well-read parents who would like their children to include reading in their daily regime and make it a lifelong habit, but the busy parents might feel lost in the sea of children’s literature,” Hooda explained.
 
 “This literature festival is an effort to build a passion for reading among children and parents. It is a small movement to bring awareness in Gurgaon about reading good literature,” Hooda further said.
 
 
