PATNA: The area in the 100m radius of a hospital is a silence zone, where loudspeakers cannot be used. Like every year, however, two pandals have come up near the Patna Medical College and Hospital ( ) and blaring loudspeakers have added to the woes of the patients inside the hospital.

 While one pandal has been set up on the PMCH campus near its gate number 2, the other is situated on the other side of the road outside this gate.
 
 The pandal of Sri Sri Kalika Puja Samiti outside the PMCH gate has four loudspeakers fitted around it. “We will keep the volume low so that patients are not disturbed,” said Ashok Kumar, a member of the puja committee.
 
 Sri Sri Kendriya Durga Puja Samiti has been organising the puja right on the hospital premises for the last 22 years. “We have installed only two loudspeakers,” said  , cashier of the puja committee.
 
 Asked if they had taken permission from the hospital administration for using loudspeakers on its premises,   said they had the district administration’s permission to organise the puja. “Why do we need the hospital administration’s permission? The loudspeakers will be used only for three days begining Wednesday and, that too, for three to four hours every day,” he said.
 
 PMCH superintendent Dr Lakhinder Prasad expressed helplessness. “Puja is being celebrated at the two places for several years now. We have requested the two pandals to play the speakers at low volume,” he said.
 
 According to Patna DM  , the administration has not given licence to any new pandal. “The two pandals near the PMCH have also been organising the puja for years. The prescribed noise limit is 80 decibels, but the two puja committees have been asked to keep it lower than that,” he said and added the administration would remain vigilant to ensure this.
 
 Psychiatrist Dr   explained the harmful effects of loud noise, saying it causes sleep deprivation and anxiety disorders. “Patients are more vulnerable as they get irritated. Also, loud noise can aggravate dyspnea,” the doctor said and added pandals anywhere near hospitals should be a no-no.
 
 
