PUNE: Kavita Saidane, admitted at the medicine ward of the   for stomach ache and swelling, has been waiting for doctors to check on her for the last two days. The situation is no different for  , a Baramati resident suffering from low platelet count and admitted to the woman’s ward.

 Both these women are among scores of patients waiting endlessly for their turn to get examined at the hospital. Barring emergency care, medical services at the Sassoon hospital have taken a huge beating since about 260  , who are postgraduate students of the  , joined went on   on Monday to protest the spate of attacks on their peers. 
 
 “Residents doctors are the life-line of the hospital. It has become difficult to render medical services in their absence,” a nurse from the hospital told TOI.
 
 Subhadra Ravale, a diabetic, had to wait for hours to get her quota of medicines. “We get medicines on fixed days. Today, the disbursal of medicines is going on at a snail’s pace. Besides, I had to wait for hours to consult a doctor for the periodic drug review. There are very few doctors and they too are overburdened,” Ravale said.
 
 Ajay Taware, medical superintendent of the Sassoon hospital, said, “The long queues witnessed at the hospital are mainly for the medicines. We have been demanding since long to start disbursal of drugs at civic-run hospitals also but to no avail.”
 
 Dixit visits the hospital
 
 The state government has formed a panel under former director general of police Praveen Dixit to look into the issues of the resident doctors and submit recommendations. Dixit visited the B J Medical College attached Sassoon hospital on Tuesday.
 
 “Security of doctors at the workplace is the biggest concern that has been shared with Dixit. Besides, we have also underlined the need of fast-track courts so that cases concerning physical assaults on doctors are taken up on priority. He told us that both the issues will take some time to be addressed and told us to resume work,” said a resident doctor.
 
