DHARAMSHALA: India have found a rare bowler but playing him in too many T20s could erode his effectiveness, says former left-arm great Bedi

 The dying art of chinaman bowling enjoyed a kiss of life on Saturday as   made his debut for India and turned the series-deciding fourth Test against Australia on its head with four crucial wickets.
 
 As Australia sank from 1441 to 300 all out on the first day, Kanpur's gift to Indian cricket revealed an earthy sense of humour, saying he had learnt some tricks from Aussie legend Shane Warne and used them to trigger Australia's collapse.
 
 “Unhi se seekh ke unhi ko out karney mey bahut accha laga (It felt good to learn from them first and use that to get them out),” Kuldeep said.
 
 It was an inspired selection from the Indian cricket team management to replace injured captain   with the 22-year left-arm wrist-spinner, but with perfect logic. In July 2016, in the first Test of the series in Pallekele, Sri Lanka had unleashed another chinaman bowler, Lakshan Sandakan, to devastating effect against Australia.
 
 “I was told yesterday that I was part of the selected 12-member squad, meaning I had to be ready. Then this morning I was told that I would be playing, after Virat decided not to play,” Yadav said, on when he was told he would play.
 
 Coincidentally, Sandakan too had bagged four wickets in the first innings as Australia careened to a 106-run defeat in that Test.
 
 India needed a trick up their sleeve to get the upper hand in the decider, especially with Steve Smith scoring another century and threatening to run away with the game, and Kuldeep was at hand to deliver the coup de grace. He even revealed that his first wicket, that of  , was not the stock chinaman - a rare, difficult style of left-arm unorthodox wrist spin -but a flipper, a sort of backspin learnt from Warne. Yadav also bagged Glenn Maxwell and Handscomb with a peach of a googly and a chinaman respectively.
 
 “Aapney pehla wicket nehi dekha?
 
 Woh flipper tha. I learnt it from Shane Warne. Unhoney jo bola tha, meine waisa hi kiya (I bowled the flipper to dismiss David Warner exactly as Shane Warne had told me to),” said Yadav, saying Warne had promised him one more session following their recent meeting during the Pune Test of this series, a meeting facilitated by coach  .
 
 Yadav, who endured some tough times in the domestic circuit in the 2015-16 season when his place in the state team was not regular, is also in touch with Brad Hogg, probably the world's best-known chinaman bowler, in the Kolkata Knight Riders set-up. Hogg, in fact, has been a key figure in Yadav's meteoric rise.
 
 In his formative years , Yadav had to hone his skills alone, when childhood coach Kapil Pandey suggested he switch from pace bowling, and idolizing Wasim Akram, and take up spin. “Mujhe to pata hi nahi tha chinaman kya hai. Lekin mere haath se jo nikla who chinaman tha (I didn't even know what a chinaman was. But what came out of my hand was a chinaman),“ he said.
 
 “It is difficult to bowl a chinaman. You need to work. If you don't get the spot, you will be hit. Variations are important. I have confidence in my skills. From childhood I have been told a spinner is someone who gets hit but picks wickets. My theory remains the same,” he said.
 
 Former India captain and legendary spinner Bishan Singh Bedi told TOI that Kuldeep's length and accuracy were remarkable for a young chinaman bowler. “Even Garry Sobers was not confident about bowling the chinaman. He told me he needed a deep midwicket and deep square leg. India have found a rare bowler who needs to be wrapped in cotton wool and unleashed only for Tests. Playing him in too many T20s will erode his effectiveness,” Bedi said.
 
 The great Sachin Tendulkar also tweeted, “I am impressed with Kuldeep's variations. Keep going strong.”
 
 Yadav, in the past, has said he prefers four-day cricket since it suits his style of bowling. On Saturday, he beamed when informed that the Australians had complained they could not pick his googly, bowled with a scrambled seam, and were generally struggling to read him from the hand or off the pitch.
 
 “Accha hai, unko dikkat aa rahi hai. Main dikhana bhi nahi chahta (Good they can't read my deliveries. I don't want to show them either),” he said.
 
