THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Slab wise service charge system for   is set to be introduced in the city. An all party meeting convened by mayor V K Prasanth recently has approved the new service charges for   management. As per the system, three types of service charges will come into effect in the city based on the type of waste management being followed in each household.

 The rates have been classified as Rs 200, Rs 400 and Rs 800. For Rs 200, corporation would only collect recyclable waste, especially plastic from a house and the resident would install kitchen bin compost units. Under Rs 400 slab, a resident needs to transport household perishable waste to nearby community aerobic bin on a daily basis. This service would be applicable in households where space constraints and other practical difficulties may act as deterrent to kitchen bin composting. Collection of recyclable waste will also be covered under this slab. 
 
 The highest slab will be applicable to those who refuse to cooperate with home composting despite having necessary conditions in their households. Waste will be collected directly by corporation staff at a monthly rate of Rs 800. 
 
 It is for the first time a civic body in the state is introducing slab wise service charge system for waste management. The fares were approved in the all-party meeting which also finalized the structure of sanitation management committee (SMC). It will have a director board comprising representatives of political parties, three-member technical panel and representatives from official wing. The composition of SMC will be renewed with the closure of term of every council. SMC will directly oversee all waste management activities in the city. A Bengaluru-based company has reached an agreement with the corporation to provide online platform for the service. Once the system goes online, corporation will keep an online database of all households brought under the new waste management scheme. Any queries or complaints or requests for service can be raised on the portal and daily monitoring of quantity of waste being managed at house and community aerobic bins will also be done via this portal. 
 
 The corporation will soon conduct a survey of households so that service required for each house can be finalized and rates could be fixed accordingly. The civic body has already received the nod from the government to have new recruits so that three staff could be deployed at each community aerobic bin round the clock. Around 15,500 aerobic bins are also ready for distribution in city wards. The corporation has also decided to provide free waste management services in coastal and thickly congested colonies in the heart of the city. 
 
 
