Kolkata:   and ISC students may have to brace for life without “moderation” from the next academic session itself.

 The Council of Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) has advised principals of affiliated schools in the city to spread the word among teachers and students. All central and state boards are likely to meet to frame a policy on this vexed issue after the Delhi high court gives its verdict.
 
 “Moderation” of marks refers to a standard practice of increasing marks, primarily to “lift” students above the pass percentage. But this has a cascading effect on most other students as evaluators often increase marks correspondingly for high scorers as well, mainly “for the purpose of fairness”. This practice, say most educationists, has led to a situation where a disproportionately large number of students score more than 95% at the upper end of the spectrum.
 
 “We have been told to wait for a final decision but we know which way the ball is rolling,” the principal of a top city school told TOI. “The ministry of human resources development has already made its stand clear that it is not in favour of continuing the moderation policy. Colleges and universities do not get accurate information of a student’s capability because of this moderation policy,” she added.
 
 Another school principal said the problem was compounded because of the absence of a uniform policy of “moderating marks”. “Different boards go to different extents and this ensures there is no level playing field,” he added. 
 
 Principals across the board admitted that the number of failures would increase manifold, particularly in subjects like mathematics, physics and English if marks were not “moderated”. High scorers, too, would be affected, they said.
 
 A principal explained: “It will be a struggle for schools to safeguard their reputation if there is a dip in the success rate or high scorers’ performance. So the CISCE has advised us to be ready for changes and also prepare teachers, guardians and students.”
 
 “But, whatever be the decision, it will be a collective one and the CISCE will go along with all other boards once there is a directive from the Delhi high court,” Central Modern School, Baranagar, principal and secretary of the association of ICSE schools in Bengal and the northeast, Nabarun De, said.
 
 
