CHANDIGARH: Carrying forward the tradition, ‘The Times of India’ celebrated Valentine’s Day with a difference aiming to bring smiles to those who are in some way less privileged than others. This year, team   celebrated the day with patients of Sai Aasra Paraplegic Rehabilitation Centre – a home and rehabilitation centre for spinal cord injury.

 Celebrations began with an interactive session, followed by cake-cutting along with inmates. It was fun time for all and the event was widely appreciated, informed chairperson Nicky P Kaur. In the afternoon, TOI supported an event, including a clothes donation drive and hotel visit organized by   and Hyatt Regency, Chandigarh. About 45 children from economically weaker backgrounds attended the programme.
 
 Through a voluntary effort of the Tricity citizens, nearly 5,000 pieces of clothes were collected at Elante mall, where people were motivated to donate clothes for the underprivileged. These clothes were then dry cleaned and made into proper sets.
 
 On Valentine’s Day, children from Bal Sadan were invited and taken for a walk inside the hotel to show its inner workings – how food was stored, managed, and prepared. Later, they were assembled in the employee restaurant called Fifth Avenue. The staff and senior management of the hotel presented clothes to each child. The kids were given refreshments, and finally, all kids were engaged in fun activities. The children enjoyed a lot during the programme. 
 
 The event brought out a unique overwhelming experience for underprivileged kids. “We believe in the cause and didn’t want to make it a lackadaisical effort of simply distributing clothes. We decided to bring the homeless and orphan children of the Tricity and give them a hotel experience and a sumptuous treat at an associate restaurant. We believe in making a substantial difference in the lives of less fortunate children of God,” said the organizers.
 
 Members present were CEO of  , general manager of  , his wife Mohita Baijal and from Bal Sadan – Kalpana, Dyan, Anu and Sonia.
 
 
