AGRA: On a day when the state assembly witnessed an uproar over the deteriorating law and order situation and chief minister   sought a year’s time to get things in order, there were protests in Matura and Agra following a sensational murder of two jewellers in Mathura while another one was shot and looted in Agra the same night. While three policemen, including one station in-charge, were suspended for negligence of duty on Tuesday, UP DGP Sulkhan Singh will visit Mathura on Wednesday to conduct a review meeting with ADG, IG and SSPs of the two districts.
 
  The friends and relatives of jeweller Vikas Agarwal, who along with his acquaintance  , was shot dead in a heist at his shop in Mathura on Monday night, took to streets in protest. Blaming the state government for the rising crime, Vikas Agarwal’s family members also turned away local BJP workers who came to mourn their son’s untimely death. 
  
  A CCTV footage from Agarwal’s shop at Holi Gate in Mathura shows a bunch of assailants with their faces covered entering the jewellery shop violently around 9 pm on Monday. The attackers are seen brutally thrashing almost everyone present inside and later shooting Vikas Agarwal and Megh in cold blood. The 3-minute video, which went viral on social media on Tuesday, also shows the attackers looting cash and jewellery worth lakhs and later kicking the bodies of Vikas and Megh on their way out.
  
  Mathura SSP  , who took charge on Monday, said, “Our priority is to crack the case. To restore people’s confidence, we have deputed extra police force in the area. Special task forces have also joined the investigation.”
  
  Mishra added that DGP Sulkhan Singh will visit Mathura on Wednesday to conduct a law and order review meeting with senior officials.
  
  Meanwhile, traders in Mathura have called for a bandh on Wednesday. “Police have not been able to crack such a big case. There has been absolutely no progress in the investigation,” said  , a senior member of Western UP Traders Association.
  
  In a similar incident in Agra on Monday night, a jeweller was shot at by two bike-borne men. The victim was rushed to a local hospital and is said to be out of danger.
