Jaipur: There is no ray of hope that Pink City will get rid of its   menace in near future. Though, the   ( ) had earmarked land to set up waste-to-energy plant, the project has hit the roadblock in the absence of power purchase agreement (PPA) .

 According to officials, in November 2015, the JMC had given it’s consent letter to establish the plant. Following this, the government departments and awarded company had to sign a PPA with   ( VVNL). However, nothing has been done in this regard due to lackadaisical approach of the officials. 
 
 “Now, after the PPA is signed, the land will be earmarked and detailed project report will be prepared after the process is completed. It would take minimum two years and residents will have to wait for longer period,” said a JMC official source. 
 
 It was proposed that the plant with capacity of nearly 700 million litres per day will be developed on public private and partnership (PPP) model. The estimated cost of this project will be Rs 180 crore.
 
 JMC was planning to generate nearly seven MW in a day from 650 tonnes of waste. At present, waste generated in JMC areas is close to 1,250 tonne. Out of which, 350 tonne is used to produce refuse derived fuel that is sold to cement factories and 250 tonne is used to produce compost manure. The JMC had planned to generate electricity from remaining 650 tonne garbage . “A Gurgaon-based firm was selected for the same. The firm would pay Rs 66 for per metric tonne to JMC. However , due to delay in agreement the firm has expressed that the plant will be installed after the PPA is signed, ”added source
 
 As per the agreement, the JMC had appointed the firm appointed for 25 years. The initial rate fixed to sell electricity to electricity department was cost of Rs 7.4.” 
 
 Now, the city will have to wait for minimum two years for the project. Explaining the procedure of generating electricity, the official said, “As per the reports, one MW can be generated using 100 tonne waste. Segregation is done in several steps at the plant. Non-combustible matter is segregated and moisture content reduced by drying it. Recyclable materials like plastic and hard materials like bricks or stone are removed in the next step. Kitchen waste sent for composting combustible matter that remains in fuel is taken to boiler to generate steam. Steam is sent to the turbine to generate power. The boiler has a pollution abatement system which produces clean energy. From 1,000 tonnes of garbage, about 400 tonnes of green fuel is finally obtained,” he added.
 
 
