Nearly 80 acres of land near   lay barren for over a decade. It was used mainly to dump gravel and other waste, and as a playground. In 2014, a group of 6-7 residents got together to find out what exactly that stretch of land was, and they were surprised to find that it was actually a lake. And not just one, but three lakes — Halanayakanahalli Lake (42 acres 23 guntas),   (22 acres 13 guntas) and Chikkannelli Lake (14 acres 29 guntas). All these form the greater Halanayakanahalli Lake area.
“Once a bunch of us discovered that there was a lake in that huge depression, we got inspired by the success of the   revival and decided to try the same. The first hurdle was figuring out who the custodian of the lake was, what the boundary was, if there was any encroachment and if water can return to the lake,” says   M, a resident who has been actively involved in reviving the lake. When they didn’t get answers from the panchayat office, the residents spoke to villagers, who told them that the lake used to be completely filled with water around 30 years ago. They then filed an RTI and secured the survey number — the lake was part of three villages and had three survey numbers. They also found out that the   (MID) was the custodian of the lake. Armed with all this information, they organized a walkathon in January 2014 to raise awareness on the need to revive the lake. “It took 6-8 months just to figure out who the custodian was,” says Krishna.
 What followed were several requests made to officials to help the residents figure out if there was any encroachment on the lake and where the kaluves were. This process, says Krishna, was met with several delays. “On the outer side of the lake, there is a road, and we realized that it was within the lake boundary. We again took the help of villagers and found out that there were many borewells and open sewerage lines in the lake; we requested the panchayat to initiate action against those responsible for this. There was a lot of confusion about what to do with the road, so we requested the MID to first protect the lake by fencing it, then revive it by desilting it and by planting trees to increase the biodiversity. But while they gave us time and listened to us, nothing much was happening on ground,” says Krishna.
 The next step for the residents was to complain to the   and the Lok Adalat, as a result of which, Upa Lokayukta Justice Subhash B Adi carried out an inspection of the lake, along with all the stakeholders, such as the tahsildar, revenue department officials and those of the pollution control board. Since there was some pressure to retain the road due to the real estate works in the area, the residents involved experts and gave a recommendation to the MID and Upa Lokayukta on how the revival can be done keeping the road in place.
 But what actually brought water back into the lake in 2015 was a shram daan (voluntary physical work) by the villagers to clear up storm water drain inlets to the lake. “We figured out that there was a lot of construction debris dumped in the kaluves, which was blocking the entry of water into the lake. Just after the mouth of the rajakaluve as it enters the lake was cleaned, the next day, water started filling up in the lake for the first time in many years. With so little done, so much was achieved in terms of nature coming back and bringing life back into the lake,” says Krishna.
 In May 2016, Justice Adi had given certain set of actions to be carried out towards the revival of the lake, but nothing has happened. Speaking about the progress of the movement, Krishna says that the lake hasn’t been revived yet; this is just the first of many steps. “Dredging, removal of weeds and putting in measures to ensure there isn’t further encroachment will bring the lake back to its lost glory, but all this requires action from government agencies. It is only when they kick into action that actual results will be seen,” Krishna signs off.
 
