LUCKNOW: If you thought the punchline for the SP-Congress tie-up “UP Ko Yeh Saath Pasand Hai” (UP likes this combination) was catchy enough, you were not the only one. Even   thought so. No wonder it has come out with a similar-sounding “UP Ko Yeh Saat Pasand Hai” (UP likes these seven leaders) with the photograph of the party’s top seven leaders, including Prime Minister Modi and party chief Amit Shah.

 Though the SP was quick to dismiss the BJP’s new slogan as a copy of their “original” one coined to focus on party chief Akhilesh Yadav and   vice-president Rahul Gandhi, the war of words—rather slogans—is getting intensified as the state heads for the first phase of polling on February 11.
 
 Playing on the party’s tagline for the 2014 Lok Sabha elections “Abki Baar, Modi Sarkar,” which saw the BJP win a record 73 of the total of 80 seats in UP, the party’s new slogan in UP says: “Abki Baar, 300 Ke Paar” for UP’s 403 assembly seats. The party has also come up with: “Saath Aaayein, Parivartan Layein, Kamal Khilayein”, “Jan Jan Ka Sankalp, Parivartan Ek Vikalp” and “Do Baatein Kabhi Na Bhool, Narendra Modi Aur Kamal Ka Phool” to catch the attention of the electorate in the state.
 
 While the BJP slogans hover around PM Modi, the SP has its party chief Akhilesh Yadav at the centre of the entire campaign except for its anthem “Kaam Bolta Hai” which focuses on the party’s development agenda in the past five years. Keeping in mind the recent family feud and party leadership’s attempt to keep SP patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav in good humour, the party workers have come up with slogans like “Akhilesh Ka Jalwa Qaayam Hai, Uska Baap Mulayam Hai” on the lines of party’s earlier slogan “Jiska Jalwa Qayam Hai, Uska Naam Mulayam Hai” that filled the air in all major party rallies and functions till the 2014 Lok Sabha elections when Mulayam was at the helm of the affairs.
 
 While the spotlight is on Akhilesh, the party has come up with one-liners like “Vikas Ka Pahiya, Akhilesh Bhaiya” and “Sab Bolo Dil Se, Akhilesh Bhaiya Phir Se”. These slogans are regular features of all campaign material, be it hoardings, posters or social media. However, keeping with the spirit of “positive campaigning”, the SP has noticeably refrained from targeting the opposition parties in its campaign unlike the BJP and the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) which have used party symbols of their political rivals to attack each other.
 
 The BSP, which had stayed away from social media in its election campaigns till the last electoral battle in 2014, is going full throttle in the virtual world this time in an attempt to keep up with BJP and SP. Party supremo Mayawati, called “Behenji” by party workers, has emerged as the central theme of her party campaign like her political adversaries. 
 
 “Betiyon Ko Muskurane Do, Behenji Ko Aane Do” and “Gaon Gaon Ko Shahar Banane Do, Behenji Ko Aane Do” keep Mayawati as the theme of the slogans, phrases like “Kamal, Cycle, Panja Hoga Kinaare, UP Chalega Hathi Ke Saharey” are being used by the party to run down SP and the BJP.
 
 The Congress, which started with “27 Saal UP Behal” to describe the state of affairs in UP during the past 27 years since it last formed a government in the state, had to withdraw the slogan which was released during Rahul Gandhi’s Kisan Yatra from Deoria to Delhi in September 2016, as it entered into an alliance with SP in UP. However, the campaign, which has now transformed into a joint venture with the SP, is focusing on the alliance itself with slogans like “UP Ke Ladke” pitting Rahul and Akhilesh against “Baharwale” (outsider) Modi and “Cycle Ko Ab Haath Pasand Hai” highlighting the SP-Congress alliance.
 
 
