JAIPUR: The rising man-animal conflict in areas near the   (STR) echoed in the   assembly on Monday . Forest minister Gajendra Singh claimed that the recent incidents of animals kil ling villagers had occurred within the periphery of the sanctuary and that the victims had entered the forest area.

 The concern over increasing man-animal conflict and the death of seven villagers in Alwar after being attacked by leopard, was raised by   Shakuntala Rawat in the zero hour.
 
 She referred to Saturday’s incident when villagers had killed a leopard after it had killed a youth earlier in the day and claimed that it was the carelessness of the forest officials that a mob had set the leopard on fire. Her charges were refuted by   MLA Jairam Jatav, who in turn accused ‘few’   party workers of instigating locals to do so.
 
 In his reply, the minister said that in all the seven cases, which were reported since September 2016, had taken place inside the forest area. “The animal did not stray into residential areas. The victims had all entered the forest – whether it was to cut grass or collect wood,” he informed the house. He added that the government is working on introducing a `better rehabilitation plan’ for shifting of villages from the forest area, which would help to curb the man-animal conflicts.
 
 He denied that there had been any error on part of the forest officials. “The officials have acted promptly each time, capturing the leopards involved in the attacks and shifting them to zoos,” he said. He also said the family of the man who was killed in the Saturday attack was given ‘double compensation’.
 
 Rawat had demanded that elected representatives and villagers be included in the eco development committee there. “Man and animal have been living together in Sariska for years. Villagers are known to protect the animals of the forest – be it tigers or leopards. There should be a committee which coordinates between the villagers and the forest officials and ensures that the villagers get a chance to voice their grievances and give their suggestions,” said Rawat.
 
