NASHIK: Preparations for the ‘Make in Nashik’ event, to be held in Mumbai, have gathered momentum as companies such as Tata Group, Reliance, M&M, Volkswagen, Britannia and other giant industries are invited.

 District guardian minister Girish Mahajan has given his consent to spearhead the organising committee for the event. Recently, divisional commissioner Eknath Dawle and district collector Radhakrishnan B conducted a meeting with the industries to discuss the preparations for the event.
 
 Secretary of Nashik Industries & Manufacturers’ Association (NIMA),   said, “We have already finalised the venue for the Make in Nashik event, which will be held in Nehru Centre, Mumbai. The dates for the event are yet to be finalised. We also have to conduct an event by mid-June. So, we are mulling the second-half of May for the Make in Nashik event, which will be held with the help of the government.”
 
 Decisions and work to book the venue are underway. “The divisional commissioner and district collector are also monitoring the preparations. We will also hold a meeting with the district guardian minister Girish Mahajan for preparations. We are also preparing a list of industries which will be invited for the event” Kharote said, adding that giant industries like Tata Group, Reliance Industries, M&M, Volkswagen, Britannia and many others will be invited for the event.
 
 NIMA vice-president Mangesh Patankar said, “Not a single large   has come to Nashik in the last 12 years. Nashik was also sidelined during the Make in India event, held in Mumbai last year. So, we want the state government to take efforts to push the large business houses to make an investment here to boost the industrial sector of Nashik. Chief minister Devendra Fadnavis has also committed to adopt Nashik. So, we hope that the Make in Nashik event will not only fetch large investments, but will also generate employment.” 
 
 Several industries in Nashik were disappointed after they were sidelined for future investments during the Make in India event in February last year. MoUs worth Rs 7.94 lakh crore were signed for Maharashtra alone, but Nashik got less than 0.25% of the total investment, Rs 2,415 crore. Of which, Rs 1,500 crore was used for an expansion project by M&M.
 
