AHMEDABAD: The last time a tiger was spotted in Dang district's areas bordering   was in 1989. Recently, however, scat (faeces of animals) analysis has revealed tiger presence right up to the border of Nasik district adjacent to Dang forests in  .

 This discovery has made the   (NTCA) include the Dang jungles (bordering  ) in the upcoming Tiger Census in November. It was on No vember 2 last year that foresters had found the scat of a male tiger within the forest limits in Maharashtra but which was around 2-3 km from the Dang border (in Gujarat). This indicated movement of tigers between the states.
 
  (WII) scientist and eminent fi eld biologist, Y V Jhala, who is part of the 2017 tiger estimation study , says an all-India tiger estimation will be taken up in November this year.
 
 "Tiger presence has been noted adjacent to the Dang forest in Maharashtra," he said.
 
 "This has raised hopes that Dang can be a potential area for tiger habitat. We will ask the Gujarat forest department to carry out an extensive survey in Dang and, if they find any traces, the NTCA will install camera traps for the final November census," Jhala said. Principal chief conservator of forests, G Sinha, said Dang has a suitable climate for tigers."Dang only lacks a prey base," he said.
 
 "The last sighting of tigers was in 1985 in Bheskhatri area in Vyara taluka.In the 1989 census, there were reports of 13 tigers and, in 1992, it was zero.Till a few decades ago, Gujarat was the only state to have all the three big cats -tigers, lions and leopards.If we get a WII proposal we will initiate a survey," Sinha said.
 
 In 1979, following the Gujarat Tiger Census, the then Special Chief Conservator of Forests, Wildlife, Gujarat, MA Rashid, had warned that tigers in Gujarat were struggling for survival.
 
 In the September 1979 issue of `Cheetal'-a journal published by the   Society of India -mentions that the "Tiger Census in Gujarat, 1979" indicated seven tigers, six of which were in Dang district.
 
