BENGALURU: If the Karnataka State Industries and Infrastructure Development Corporation (KSIIDC) has its way, CM Siddaramaiah and infrastructure development minister RV Deshpande may soon be beaming down on you from roadside   as you drive from the trumpet intersection to   ( ) terminal and back.

 That’s not all. Another person, not a VIP, may be part of the hoardings — KSIIDC chairman   himself, who proposed to replace commercial hoardings on KIA road with that of Siddaramaiah and Deshpande. Incidentally, Dhananjaya, head of the state Congress legal cell, is a political appointee.
 
 “The existing hoardings are too huge and may be a distraction for motorists driving down the stretch. As KSIIDC wants to ensure a safe drive for KIA passengers, we will advise the airport management to remove hoardings which are too big in size,” he told TOI. 
 
 But he sees no trouble in putting up giant signboards with smiling faces of the CM, industries minister and even his. “At least, there should be two such hoardings; one at the entry and the other at the exit,” he said.
 
 “Many don’t know that the land on which the airport has been developed belongs to KSIIDC. We want to make it known and that’s why we are proposing to put up hoardings with faces of the chief minister and industries minister,” Dhananjaya said, adding that the boards would declare the property belongs to KSIIDC and the airport project was backed by it.
 
 Among other development works the KSIIDC wants the Bangalore International Airport Limited (BIAL), the company operating KIA, to take up is the widening of the road between the toll gate and the terminal, and development of a dedicated track for commercial taxis.
 
 Dhananjaya said road-widening is necessary to ensure seamless traffic flow to and from the terminal. Explaining the KSIIDC’s locus standi in proposing these, he said the corporation is a significant stakeholder in BIAL and the title owner of the property. It has 13 % stake in KIAL.
 
 Officials to visit airport in April
 
 KSIIDC officials said their chairman and senior officials will inspect the airport next month.
 
 “We will be happy to apprise KSIIDC about the work and are receptive to the advice and valuable suggestions required for improvement of the facility,” said a BIAL spokesperson.
 
 “KSIIDC is a stakeholder and if the chairman wants to visit the facility, he is most welcome. We will be glad to receive him,” said a spokesperson of GVK Group.
 
 A land parcel of 3,884 acres and 25 guntas in Devanahalli, which was in KSIIDC’s possession, was leased out to BIAL for developing the greenfield airport in 2005. According to the lease agreement, the KSIIDC is authorized to inspect the site after providing 48 hours’ notice. The corporation is entitled to summon a yearly audit of the site.
 
 The GVK Power and Infrastructure Limited, which had 43% stake in BIAL, sold 33 % stake to Fairfax India Holdings Corp. Sources said the process of transfer of shares was on. Also, the KSIIDC’s site inspection move comes at a time when work on the second runway is under way and BIAL officials are expected to update progress of the work.
 
 
