NAGPUR: A 46-year-old woman from the city died of swine flu at a private hospital on Sunday. This was the first death of the year due to swine flu, said doctors.   (NMC) health department said the decreased woman was Kalpana Chahale, a resident of  , South-West Nagpur.

 After sparing the city for over 14 months, swine flu has returned suddenly, with three from the city afflicted in the last 10 days. “With chilling nights and hot afternoons, the current weather is giving conducive atmosphere to the virus,” said Dr Sunil Ghurde, medical officer (epidemic), NMC.
 
 Coordinator medical officer (Epidemic) Dr Vijay Tiwari told TOI, “Chahale was initially admitted to  , and later she was referred to KRIMS. On March 6, she was detected as positive, and she expired a week later.” Tiwari said that decreased woman was also diabetic.
 
 KRIMS hospital director Dr Ashok Arbat said, “Patients with diabetes and hypertension easily catch swine flu, so such patients with even slightest cold or cough need to immediately check with doctors.”
 
 Dr Arbat said, “March 2015 was the peak season, when we treated 217 patients. Subsequently, the virus had disappeared in 2016. But since March 2017 began, we are noticing a significant rise in patients with symptoms similar to swine flu, though they are yet to be confirmed positive. I think the patient rate is going to rise in coming days.”
 
 NMC data reveals two more patients from the city were detected positive for swine flu. One is Ganesh Mishra (60), receiving treatment at  , and a resident of Swaraj Nagar, West Nagpur. The other is Manoj Kale (41), from Aashirwad Nagar, South Nagpur, who is being treated at Trinity Hospital. The cases were detected positive on March 3 and 7 respectively.
 
 Apart from these three cases, there are six positive and five suspected cases of swine flu patients from surrounding districts and neighbouring states receiving treatment in the city.
 
 Deputy director health Dr   informed the six patients are from Saoner, Umred, Wardha, Chandrapur, Amravati and Chhindwara.
 
 He also pointed out, “There must be a rise in positive cases, but the death rate has reduced manifold. Because doctors are now able to diagnose the virus early, more positive cases are coming out than before. It’s a positive sign as more people are able to get early treatment now-a-days.” 
 
