KOLHAPUR: The recent transfer of Indu mill land from the   ( ) to the state government for the construction of   memorial has sparked demands for a similar move for the Rajarshi Chhatrapati Shahu Maharaj memorial in Kolhapur. 

 The state government had in 2012 announced the construction of memorial at the 27-acre Shahu mill premises in Kolhapur. However, five years later, the memorial plan submitted by the Kolhapur municipal corporation ( ) to the state government has still not been approved. 
 
 The NTC owns the defunct Shahu mill and the corporation had in January 2014 evaluated the cost of land at Rs 65 crore. The textile corporation had directed the state government and the KMC to pay the amount for transfer of the ownership of the land. 
 
 A similar demand was made by the NTC for the transfer of the Indu mill land for the Ambedkar memorial. However, the corporation later agreed to transfer the land in a prime location in exchange of the transfer development rights (TDR).
 
 TDR means making available certain amount of additional built-up area in lieu of the area relinquished or surrendered by the owner of the land. The main purpose of TDR is to acquire land or undertake additional construction in case the planning authority finds dealing in cash inconvenient.
 
 Activists in Kolhapur are now demanding that the TDR approach be adopted regarding the transfer of the Shahu mill land for the memorial here. 
 
 Jaykumar Shinde, convenor of Shahu Phule Ambedkar Bahujan Vikas Manch, said, “The decision to transfer the Indu mill land to construct Ambedkar memorial has paved the way for a similar decision to be taken in case of  . In January, we wrote to the state government to transfer the land and immediately begin the process to construct the memorial.”
 
 A senior official of the KMC's town planning department said, “We have communicated to the NTC that it is not possible for the civic body to pay the land cost. We have also asked the state government to shoulder the responsibility for the transfer of the Shahu mill land.” 
 
 “Last year, the government assured that the land transfer will happen soon. The NTC should be given the TDR, which the only way to resolve the issue,” he added. 
 
