The newspaper is one place where events happen to rub shoulders with each other and sometimes it becomes possible to discern a pattern amongst these. Currently, for instance, there are several unconnected news stories that illustrate different dimensions of a unique Indian inability — approaching a problem with clarity and consistency, and trying to solve it cleanly. The original situation is — through a complex interplay of random action — inspired meddling by many, studied inaction, selective zeal, and CYA canniness, converted into another altogether more convoluted problem. 

 Take the case of the BCCI. The   was widely seen to be a law unto itself and frequently critiqued as a cesspool of greed that lacked accountability. The courts stepped in to clean things up and have miraculously succeeded in making them much worse. It is now governed by a set of people who know very little about the game and advised by people who know a lot about  , but very little about administering it. It is actually played by those that do not wish to be administered in any significant way. 
 
 The result is a hot mess — we have a coach appointed after a lot of drama, along with a support team that he does not seem to want. The court appointed body, COA, sees the appointment of this support team to be beyond the remit of those advisors, CAC, that have made this appointment. 
 
 Everybody seems to have a say, but nobody is in control. The primary concern of each group seems to be to curb the other group’s powers. As a result, virtually everybody involved is deeply unhappy. Between the courts, the COA, the CAC, the new coach, the new support team, the captain and the team, the other aspirants for the position of the coach, the situation has become truly messy and the atmosphere has for no reason been deeply vitiated. And now, to solve all these problems a new committee has been appointed. The future looks bright.
 
 The   is another example of a compromise that in its quest to simplify matters, muddles them in a new way. The discretionary powers of the state have been retained; indeed multiplied, given the presence of several categories of rates. The bureaucracy has held on to its power, and business has a great incentive to lobby for a lower rate. In this case, it could be argued that the situation is inherently a complex one, and that any solution is better than none, but it is clear that an opportunity has been lost. To hope that once the new structure has been put in place, greater simplification would take place over a period of time is a bit optimistic, given that the historical tendency is for things to move in the opposite direction. It is much likelier, that new sub-categories will spring up, special exemptions will be granted after hectic lobbying and that states will find new ways to levy additional taxes. 
 
 If muddle-headed meddling is one strategy, then inspired inaction is another. The investigation into the unfortunate death of   has dragged on without any prospect of resolution. One now reads in the paper that the police are loath to de-seal the hotel suite in which she was found three years ago for fear of losing forensic evidence. Surely whatever was relevant has been recorded by now. In any case, in three years, the room would have hardly stayed pristine. Things would have grown and decayed — that room is no longer a crime scene, but a historical monument to it. The desire to keep things in a state of suspended animation as a substitute for action and to be able to pretend that this is an on-going investigation seems to be the motivation here.
 
 Another example of deliberate inaction is in regulating the conduct of the CBFC. The censor board in India makes it its business to act bizarrely at regular intervals. The deletion of certain dialogues and scenes in Indu Sarkar, as well as the ridiculous excision of words like ‘cow’, and ‘Gujarat’ used by Amartya Sen in a documentary are part of an on-going project to inject a sense of absurd into our sterile lives. Here the problem is a deliberately created one — we have a person, who should not be trusted with operating a VCR, running the organisation and that too with a clear agenda. The manner in which he does so is laughable, but removing him could be a construed as a sign of weakness, so he stays. This is an easy problem to solve, but solving it creates a problem. The real problem is that while the CBFC is not meant to be a censoring body, but one that provides certification, it has always been used to censor films, and that problem is unlikely to be addressed any time soon.
 
 While each issue has its own context and its own set of issues, there are some common threads. For one, the need to always hedge one’s bets and the inability and unwillingness to act decisively and seeing a solution through. There is a reluctance to attempt the complete resolution of any issue — room is always left to insert oneself into a situation so as to be able to exercise discretion. The desire to retain power without being completely accountable is the other principle that is implicitly at work. 
 
 Leaving problems ajar, or imagining a solution as a starting point for different power structures to negotiate accommodation seems to be the most common way of approaching any issue. The focus is still on power and its distribution, rather than in how it is used to solve a problem. While this is a technique that has been perfected during the reign of the Congress, even under Narendra Modi, who is imagined as a strong and decisive leader, this approach continues. Any reform is therefore partial, and any movement contingent.
 
  santosh365@gmail.com
 
 
