Panaji: The   is waiting for ‘directions’ from the national body to decide if the Goa Basketball Association (GBA) headed by   can be granted affiliation.
 On the face of it, there appears to be no justification for denying Fr Ralin the affiliation, especially after the Basketball Federation of India (BFI) headed by K. Govindraj – of which Fr Ralin is associate secretary – was recognised both by the   and sports ministry. But the GOA, who have recognised another faction headed by Milind Shankhwalkar, is in no hurry to make amends.
  “The GBA, headed by Fr Ralin, has written to the IOA asking for directions to be recognised. We are waiting to hear from the IOA, which is our parent body,” said GOA general secretary Gurudutta Bhakta.
  The delay in granting affiliation to Fr Ralin has not gone down well with some GOA members. At least one member, Goa Badminton Association (GBA) secretary   has officially written to the GOA asking them to grant due recognition to the GBA committee headed by Fr Ralin and derecognize the other committee with immediate effect.
  “All the teams for the Nationals are being deputed by the GBA headed by Fr Ralin. All clubs in Goa are registered with the committee headed by Fr Ralin. All State championships and other official basketball activities are being conducted by or under the aegis of the committee headed by Fr Ralin.
  “The GOA must take immediate note of these developments and without further delay, must grant due recognition to the Goa Basketball Association Committee headed by Fr Ralin,” Heble wrote in an official letter to the GOA general secretary, a copy of which was marked to all members and shared with the media.
  According to Heble, the GBA permanent affiliation was discussed at the general body meeting of the GOA on July 22.
  “When the issue of permanent recognition to the GBA came up, GOA secretary general was questioned as to how the GOA continues to grant recognition to the GBA faction headed by Milind Shankhwalkar, when the IOA has also granted recognition to the other group.
  “The GOA secretary was also asked what the procedures were for granting recognitions to sports associations and how such procedures kept changing from case to case basis,” said Heble, adding that following strong objections from the GOA treasurer Anil Madgaonkar and Heble himself, the issue was kept in abeyance.
  The GOA continues to recognise, at least temporarily, the GBA faction headed by Shankhwalkar.
