NEW DELHI: A personalised message from   and a 2017 calendar featuring Akhilesh and   are the campaign materials that the SP-Congress alliance is delivering to five lakh households daily in   (east  ) since Thursday.
 
  “We have laid a foundation of development... Now we have to construct a building over the same. It is, hence, necessary that this speed of development does not slow down or stop. In last five years, we have done lots of work and achieved success on many counts...but for the all-round development of  , a long road has to be travelled,” says a signed message from Akhilesh. It is being hand-delivered by nearly 10,000 volunteers in 140-odd constituencies going to polls in the last three phases. The campaign will also cover Varanasi, the PM’s constituency.
  
  “At a time when parties like the BJP are trying to give a communal colour to the campaign, the alliance will reach every household in east UP with a positive message. About 70-100 volunteers per assembly constituency have started carrying the message of Akhilesh — a personalised letter — to five lakh homes daily. They are also taking with them the 10 key priorities of alliance — Pragati Ke Das Kadam — in the form of an A-4 sized Calendar and a pocket calendar,” a key alliance strategist told ET.
  
  In his message, Akhilesh says he and Rahul have a passion to work and also the resolve to bring UP in the category of the most developed states in India.
  
  “Work has happened in the state with speed, but along with Rahul Gandhi, work will happen even faster. I am sure you will vote for us and help us bring UP into the category of most developed states,” says the message. “On one hand where BJP chief campaigner (Modi) is spreading hatred by his statements about crematoriums and cemeteries, the SP-INC gathbandhan (alliance) is offering a positive campaign,” the alliance strategist said.
  
  The calendar has been chosen as a publicity material with the idea that it is something which people could keep in their houses rather than being discarded like pamphlets or flyers.
  
  About 70-100 volunteers wearing ‘UP Ko Yeh Saath Pasand Hai’ and ‘Phir Se Akhilesh’ slogans have been deployed in each of the 140-odd constituencies, which will go to polls in last three phases on February 27, March 4 and March 8. 
