NEW DELHI: The   (RBI) has told a parliamentary panel that it recommended the scrapping of Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 notes on November 8 after a prod from the Centre a day before. The response is part of a 7-page note the central bank has sent to Parliament’s standing committee on finance.

 Stating that the government conveyed its advice on November 7, the RBI told the panel: “The central board of the RBI met on November 8, 2016. The board noted that a summary measure in the form of withdrawal of legal tender character of these... notes to contain the menace of counterfeit notes is proposed by the government.”
 
 It was observed that such a proposal could not have come at a more opportune time than coinciding with the introduction of MG (New) series of notes, the RBI said in its reply to the panel headed by Congress’s Veerappa Moily. The response led some to say that it was at odds with the Centre’s version that the recommendation to outlaw the notes had come from the RBI.
 
 However, official sources denied that the RBI’s response contradicts statements from the government — for instance, the one from coal minister Piyush Goyal in the Rajya Sabha during the debate on demonetisation. “The response reflects only the formal part of the   drill was followed. The fact is that the exercise got under way months ago and had covered some ground by May-June when consultations were held with ex-RBI governor Raghuram Rajan.“There were several rounds of discussions on the different aspects of the massive task. What happened on November 7, with the government writing to the RBI and the latter acting on the advice on November 8 before PM Modi announced the dramatic decision in his televised address to the nation, was the formal finale of the six month-long preparation which had RBI fully involved,” said a government functionary.
 
 Providing the background of the demonetisation exercise and the preparations which went into it, the RBI has told the panel: “It occurred to government of India and the RBI that the introduction of new series of notes could provide a very rare and profound opportunity to tackle all the three problems of counterfeiting, terrorist financing and black money by demonetising the bank notes in high denomination of Rs 500 and Rs 1000 or by withdrawing the legal tender status of bank notes. Though no firm decision was taken initially, whether to demonetise or not, preparations still went on for introduction of new series of notes, as that was needed in any case.”
 
 TOIhad in its edition on November 9 exclusively reported that the preparation for the withdrawal of notes of Rs 500 and Rs 1000 had begun six months before it was announced. The RBI has told the parliamentary panel that it had “on May 27, 2016 recommended to the government that new series of bank notes with new design, including notes in the Rs 2000 denomination, be introduced. Government gave its final approval on June 7, 2016 and accordingly presses were advised in June 2016 to initiate production of new notes”.
 
 
 
