GANDHINAGAR: With only about a month left before the current state government’s last budget before assembly polls, it is shocking to find that almost half of the budget allocated for 2016-17 remains unspent. Chief minister  , and deputy chief minister Nitin Patel, who is also the finance minister of the state, claim that in the three quarters ending in December (till January 13, 2017) only 55.63% of budgetary allocations have been spent by government departments.

 What is ludicrous is that on one hand the Union government is going all out to ensure hoarded money returns to the economy, and on the other hand Gujarat’s state government departments are parking money with the Gujarat State   Ltd (GSFS) rather than vitalize the economy by spending allocated funds.
 
 A source close to the developments said, “At present, the total amount of parked funds (not spent and kept idle) is more than Rs 20,000 crore, and it’s likely to rise substantially as the departments haven’t been able to spend even last year’s grants.”
 
 Though some point out that the show is at least better than last year’s spending of 48.94% of allocated budget, none are able to explain why the lowest spending is in the departments that have the most to do with direct public welfare. Food & civil supply, labour and employment, tribal development, women and child development, agriculture and cooperation and education are at the bottom of the list when it comes to spending allocated budgets.
 
 Not unsurprisingly, the two sectors that have the most to do with contractors, real estate developers and property – rural development and housing, and urban development and housing – have left all others behind. The budget spent for both these departments exceed 70%, while that spent for labour & employment is only 33%. Even science and technology hasn’t been able to spend more than 40% though talks of digitizing and modernizing the state seem to prevail in everyone’s speeches.
 
 According to key sources, due to   (Value Added Tax) on petroleum products post demonetization, and from payment of advance taxes till December end, a total Rs 36,000 crore commercial tax (VAT) was collected. Despite this, the government may miss the Rs 50,500 crore VAT collection target due to overall drop in retail, sales, and other commercial activities in the last quarter of 2016.
 
