GURUGRAM: After five years,   will resume in   as the   has finally cleared the   

 The land — around 70 acres — was under litigation, which had prevented Haryana State Industry and   Corporation (HSIIDC) from delivering on the infrastructure. Consequently, the allottees have been suffering from bad roads, waterlogging and dilapidated sewers.
 
 “We have not been able to undertake the development work in the area for the last five years as the government could not clear the land even after the Punjab and Haryana high court had given conditional clearance. Since the land has been cleared now, work is likely to gain momentum,” a senior estate official of HSIIDC, Gurgaon, told TOI. 
 
 Tenders for several projects have been floated and around Rs 10 crore has also been allocated for the development works, he added.
 
 The two sectors, which are located on the way to Manesar, face a serious problem of waterlogging in the rainy season, as they are at a lower level than the highway. As a result, stormwater ends up flowing into the sectors, submerging most of their roads. Some roads get damaged due to waterlogging, because of which many of the industrial units become unapproachable. HSIIDC will work on repairing and rebuilding all the damaged roads in these sectors, officials said.
 
 Industrialists in the area said development work has already begun and they hoped all things would be in place soon in these sectors. “Roads are much better now, the sewer lines are being laid,” said Capt Basaraon, owner of Flight Simulation Technique Centre (FSTC).
 
 According to HSIIDC officials, many of the water harvesting pits in these two sectors also lay non-functional. “A lot of allottees pump water out on to the roads, which aggravates the problem further, apart from damaging the roads. However, we will try to take care of all the infrastructure problems now that land has been cleared,” another official said.
 
 The Punjab and Haryana high court had given clearance to the state government in 2013, with a rider that it may keep some land for right of way and the rest be returned to the allottees. However, over the next two years, some industrialists kept delaying the process by filing multiple review petitions or debating over the compensation amount for the right of way. With all the hurdles cleared, the matter was finally expedited late last year.
 
 
