NAGPUR: The visitors at ‘Vaadiyo ki surili sargam’, a   held at Vasantrao Deshpande Hall, Civil Lines, on Tuesday evening, were taken down the memory lane with hits that evoked memories of the romance of old   and tunes of Pahadi raag. “Pahadi raag is the closest to folk music, and light hearted in nature, making it a favourite for many,” said Sanjay Pendse, as he anchored the programme.

 Noted city singers Sachin and Surabhi Dhomne headlined the event. They were accompanied by Ajay Malik, Sayali Maste, Yogendra Ranade and Arvind Patil. Along with rendering vocals,   played the tabla too. Nitin Janware managed the dholak, Chintu handled the octopad. Rajesh Dhamankar played tumba and congo. Amar Shende handled violin, while Manoj Vishwa played the guitar. Anand Maste and Mangesh Patle showed their skills on the keyboard.
 
 The playlist was a mix of new and old film songs, along with a few  , comprising about 25 melodies. The stage had a backdrop of mountains and panels transmitting colourful lights, creating a dreamy ambience.
 
 Mohammed Rafi's songs dominated most part of the playlist, making it clear that the audiences still want to be made nostalgic with rendition of old Bollywood songs. ‘Suhani raat hai dhal chuki’, ‘Chandni ka chand’ were some of hits that were sung.
 
 Mukesh and Lata Mangeshkar’s songs were also a prominent part of the playlist. Lata Mangeshkar’s song ‘Payo ji maine, Ram ratan dhan payo’, played at the start, set the mood for the show with its cheerful and melodious lyrics. Mukesh’s ‘Chaandi si mehbooba ho meri’, and Sunil Dutt and Nutan’s classic song from the movie ‘Milan’ (1967) ‘Saavan ka mahina’ enthralled the audience.
 
 Sridevi starrer ‘Tere mere hothon pe’ from ‘Chandni’ and Mangeshkar’s ‘Lag ja gale’ from the movie, ‘Who Kaun Thi’, never escaped any musical event in the city. For the melody 'Phoolon ke rang se' Ajay Malik played violin. ‘Panchi banu udti firu mast gagan mein’ from the movie ‘Chori Chori’ (1956), ‘Kabhi kabhi mere dil mein’ from the popular Amitabh Bachchan-starrer ‘Kabhi Kabhi’ (1976) were some of the other songs.
 
 The show was organized by Friends of  , an organization engaged in educating tribal children in remote villages, for its donors and members, along with other visitors.
 
 
