Chandigarh: Schools don’t seem to be bothered about the upkeep of their buses, even as the managements have told about their responsibility under the safe transportation policy for students (STRAPS).

 Every day, the State Transport Authority is pointing out violations being detected during inspections. It has been almost a week since the checking began and the schools had enough time to buckle up. On Tuesday as well, the STA inspected buses and impounded four vehicles that had the disconnected speed governors. The safety gadget is mandatory. Of these buses, two belonged to the school and a couple to a contractor.
 
 The inspection campaign started on September 13, two days after the Punjab and Haryana high court ordered the UT Administration to conduct fresh round of checking to impound buses that ply without speed governors. The order had stated: “In some cases, the speed governors of   were found disconnected and the lapse was treated as a minor discrepancy, for which only a mild warning had been issued. We are of the view that the school buses are liable to be impounded till the speed governors are fitted. The Chandigarh Administration shall forthwith take all the necessary action in this direction and file a fresh statusreport.”
 
 On September 13, the STA had impounded three buses of St Xavier’s School, while the operator of another bus had been issued a ticket for violation. The STA had checked 22 school buses in the first phase. On the second day, buses of St Joseph’s Senior Secondary School and the British School (both of which are in Sector 44) were inspected. 
 
 Four buses of St Joseph’s were impounded while out of five buses of the other institution, the operators of three were issued traffic ticket for invalid licence, and the absence of CCTV (closed-circuit television) camera and GPS (global positioning system) device.
 
 On the third day, the buses of Saupin’s School were inspected and it has been the only school, so far, to have well-maintained buses, sources in the STA have stated. On Monday, the authority inspected seven buses of Government Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 16, and impounded one that did not have a woman attendant on board.
 
 In various circulars, even the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) has made the schools responsible for transport matters. The Chandigarh Administration as well, in a recent advisory issued on September 11 after the Gurugram incident, in which a Class-II boy was murdered on the school premises, stated clearly that: “Whether schoolchildren are transported by buses owned by the school or by an independent contractor, the school management cannot disown its responsibility for the children’s safety.”
 
 Commenting on the attitude of schools, STA’s additional secretary Rajiv Tewari said: “It is the second week of inspection, yet buses are being impounded. The schools should have fixed things by now.”
 
 
