PUNE: The state government will lay special emphasis on Pune and Thane districts, which have the lowest   in Maharashtra, to push up the numbers.

 The   have already been directed to chalk out plans to generate maximum Aadhaar enrolments by the end of this month. “The Aadhaar enrolment in both Pune and Thane districts is a matter of concern for the state government. The state average for Aadhaar enrolment is 94%. However, some districts are still way too behind. We have told the district authorities to plan more drives to push up the enrolment numbers in these two districts,'' senior officials from the state's Aadhaar department told TOI.
 
 While Thane has 88.8% Aadhaar enrolment, Pune stands at 90%. The officials said almost all the other districts in the state have recorded a higher percentage of Aadhaar enrolment as compared to these two districts.
 
 State officials said with the Union government emphasizing on Aadhaar-linked transactions for banks and for digital transactions, the enrolment has to be 100%. Only then the seeding of Aadhaar with banking accounts can be done. “The banking sector is already seeding the accounts with the Aadhaar numbers and slowly with more enrolments, the process would be simplified,“ they said.
 
 The coverage of Aadhaar for those in the 5-18 years group is 85% and for 0-5 years is 35%. The government had recently decided to give Aadhaar number to every newborn and link the child's number with that of the parents.As per the resolution, Aadhaar enrolment was to be undertaken simultaneously with the birth registration at the hospital where the child is born. For this, the department had tied up with the health department.
 
 “We know that there is still a large number of adult population that has to be enrolled. These drives will ensure more enrolment and once they get the Aadhaar numbers, the banks have been told to seed it with their accounts so that they can use it for digital transactions,“ the officials said.
 
 Meanwhile, citizens have raised doubts at the overall Aadhaar enrolment figures released by the state. “There are several of us who have applied but have not received the Aadhaar card. There are families where some members have got the cards while the others are still waiting for it even after enrolment,“ Munira Tambolli, a resident of Pune, said.
 
