NEW DELHI: Some of the world’s largest funders of medical research, including Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR),   and international organisations like PATH and Bill and   Foundation, have decided to make public results of all clinical trials funded and supported by them. 

 This assumes significance as almost half of clinical trials go unreported currently. Moreover, the move will enhance access to crucial data which can be useful in advancement of medical research. The decision is part of an agreement on standards, framed by the   (WHO), signed by the agencies at the ongoing United Nations’ World Health Assembly in Geneva.
 
 Health Minister J P Nadda and senior officials from the health ministry are attending the Assembly where delegates from health groups and civil society from across the world are present. The research institutes and other funding agencies agreed to develop and implement policies within the next 12 months that require all trials they fund, co-fund, sponsor or support to be registered in a publicly-available registry. 
 
 They also agreed that all results would be disclosed within specified time-frames on the registry or by publication in a scientific journal. “We need timely clinical trial results to inform clinical care practices as well as make decisions about allocation of resources for future research,” said Dr Soumya Swaminathan, DG of ICMR. 
 
 “We welcome the agreement of international standards for reporting time-frames that everyone can work towards.” Most of these trials and their results will be accessible through WHO’s International Clinical Trials Registry Platform, a unique global database of clinical trials that compiles data from 17 registries around the world, including the US’ clinical trials. gov, the EU’s Clinical Trials Register, the Chinese and Indian Clinical Trial Registries and many others. Experts say unreported trial results leave an incomplete and potentially misleading picture of the risks and benefits of vaccines, drugs and medical devices, and can lead to use of sub-optimal or even harmful products. A common registry is expected to solve this problem. “Research funders are making a strong statement that there will be no more excuses on why some clinical trials remain unreported long after they have been completed,” said Dr Marie-Paule Kieny, Assistant Director-General for   and Innovation at WHO.
 
