BENGALURU: Every ball bowled by the Indians in the final session of play on the fourth day of the second Test against Australia was cheered vociferously by a fairly large crowd at the M Chinnaswamy stadium. Rarely has a Test match enthralled an audience which largely comprised school students - a clan more inclined to the Twenty20 instant variety. But then, the contest was riveting and the match hung in the balance until   (641) regained his spinning touch on a day when 16 wickets fell by the wayside.

 In a game that will could go down as the perfect advertisement for Test cricket,   and his men thwarted a spirited challenge from the Australians to storm to a 75-run victory and level the Border Gavaskar Trophy series at 1-all. It marked an incredible turnaround from a team that had conceded an 87-run lead on a very difficult pitch.
 
 After a fantastic display of quality bowling by the Australian pace duo of Mitchell Starc (263) and Josh Hazlewood (6108) in the morning, India were bowled out for 274 in 91.1 overs just before lunch - Ashwin, a tad profligate initially, conjured a magical spell of 5.4-3-9-5 as the Australians, chasing 188 for victory, crumbled to 112 all out in 35.5 overs in an innings which lasted a mere 158 minutes.
 
 The win, seeped deep in records and statistics, was a result of team effort, which dispelled the popular notion that the Indian team thrives more on individual brilliance rather than team effort. If home boy and man of the match KL Rahul ground it out with a battling 90 in the first innings, Ravindra Jadeja joined the party with his six-wicket haul in Australia's first essay. The game changing 278-ball-118 stand between   (92; 221b, 7x4) and Ajinkya Rahane (52; 134b, 4x4), ranked among the best by Kohli, and the menacing 34 balls by Ashwin in his last spell will be remembered for long.
 
  (17) and skipper Steve Smith (28) upped the tempo and the scoring after Matt Renshaw was pouched by Wriddhiman Saha off Ishant Sharma. Both the top-order batsmen fell to dismissals which were steeped in indecision and controversy.
 
 Smith's dismissal (LBW off  ) too was unsuccessfully reviewed and later became fodder for debates and controversies. Warner, who attempted to sweep Ashwin, was give leg-before but the decision was reviewed and an 'umpire's call' was the verdict. Since it looked like the ball was just in line of the stumps, Warner was sent back.
 
 At tea, the Australians needed 87 runs for a win with four wickets in hand, but failed to find a counter to Ashwin's spin. Starc was Ashwin's 200th Test wicket on Indian soil and what once looked like a gettable run chase for Smith and his men ended up being an unreachable target.
 
 Earlier, with the first-innings lead conceded, the Indians fought back with a vengeance on Day Three to take the upper hand. But Starc and Hazlewood had their designs ready on Tuesday morning as they, and Starc in particular, bowled an impeccable length and swung the new ball, making them hard to negotiate.
 
 They broke the Pujara-Rahane partnership when the latter was adjudged leg before, off Starc, after the earlier decision of not out was reviewed by the Australians and the ball was clearly headed to the leg stump. Local boy Karun Nair went next ball, trying to drive a Starc inswinger which sent the middle stump flying. From there on, barring a 58-ball 16 run last-wicket partnership between Saha and Ishant, wickets tumbled as the hosts lost six for 36 runs and Hazlewood recorded his career-best figures just before lunch.
 
 The match had all the trappings of a great contest, replete with drama and dejection.
 
