CHANDIGARH: A six day International Public Health Management Development Program commenced on Monday, organized by School of Public Health (SPH), PGIMER, in collaboration with Indian Technical and Economic Cooperation (ITEC), ministry of external affairs (MEA), and the   and Lung Disease (IUATLD) from March 20 to 25. A total of 33 international participants, mostly directors and senior managers, from 21 countries across the globe are participating in the event. This program aims to enhance the skills and competencies of middle and senior level program managers for addressing public health challenges and strengthening efficiency of organizations in limited resource settings.

 Dr Sonu Goel, additional professor at SPH, PGIMER, and program director, gave an overview of the program in which he elaborated the importance of public health management to achieve universal health coverage and address challenges in limited resource settings. The event was inaugurated by guests of honours  , additional chief secretary (health) in Punjab, S K Dudeja of MEA administered ITEC, PGIMER director Dr K L N Rao, professor and head of SPH, PGIMER, Rajesh Kumar and Dr Rana J Singh, deputy regional director of  , IUATLD. All sessions were interactive with video clips and management games conducted during lunch and tea breaks.
 
 In a panel discussion on ‘Management and leadership in health organizations: Challenges and opportunities’, Dudeja said ITEC program would help in increasing management capacity of senior program managers. Mahajan gave tips to enhancing leadership skills to achieve positive health indicators and Dr Rajesh gave key points to make a health organization efficient. In a session, Dr Rana discussed the paradigm shift from millennium to sustainable development goals. Dr Vivek Adhish, professor and dean of National Institute of Health and Family Welfare, Delhi, discussed leadership styles in improving health outcome. Later, Dr  , dean of Chitkara School of Health Sciences, Punjab, deliberated on various theories of change management which included Kurt Lewin ’s three-step model, John P Kotter’s eight-step model and William Bridges’ managing transitions.
 
