
Two Asiatic lions, Tejas and Subbhi, arrived at their new home in Pune, the Rajiv Gandhi Zoological Park (RGZP) in December. The six-year-old lions were brought to the city from their former home 900 kms away, at Junagadh, Gujarat. The authorities claim that ours is the only zoo in the country to have Asiatic lions (besides 389 other animals from 67 different species), and Puneites got to see them for the first time yesterday. And with the summer vacations having started, the timing couldn’t be better. But according to the authorities, sourcing these Asiatic lions was no easy job. “It took almost three years from the proposal of the plan to the execution, with various permissions and processes to follow. It’s been three months since they were brought to the zoo and kept under quarantine as per procedure. Now the public can visit them,” informed Rajkumar Jadhav, director, RGZP.
 
 
 
 The RGZP has not housed a   since it opened in 1999. Authorities claim that the zoo is the only one in India to have Asiatic lions now. “The lions that other zoos house are hybrids. Conservative breeding of Asiatic lions takes place in Sakkarbaug Zoological Garden in Junagadh, Gujarat, and that’s this pair has been brought from,” says Jadhav.
 
 
 On the very first day that they were on display, Tejas and Subbhi got adopted by a travel company, who will finance their care for a year. The RGZP recently launched the ‘adopt an animal’ initiative where citizens could adopt animals and pay for their maintenance (Tejas and Subbhi eat around eight to 10 kgs of meat a day). But, the campaign was receiving a lukewarm response. This is the first case where a corporate has stepped forward and adopted an animal at the zoo. “We hope that more people and companies will come forward to adopt the other animals at the zoo too,” Jadhav said.
  
  
 
 The lions will be getting a special enclosure with a shelter, and work for the same is going on. “Construction work for the enclosure is under process and will be completed in three and half months, post which the lions will be moved there,” said Rajendra Jagtap, additional commissioner, PMC. 
 
 
 
