KOLKATA: When   tweeted the link to the trailer of his   documentary titled ‘The Argumentative Indian’, it opened a floodgate of reactions. One of the most-asked questions is: Why did the director choose not to retain the words that the   had asked to be muted?

 When TOI asked him this question, the director said, “I had made this trailer long back and it has nothing to do with the recent controversy. I had wanted it to reflect the mood of the documentary. This trailer was first uploaded by editor Sujoy Dutta Ray on July 6. I tweeted the link on Friday.”
 
 Interestingly enough, in the trailer, Ghosh has retained a comment from former Prime Minister   where he has described Sen as a “philosopher, social scientist and social activist”. In the documentary, Sen has been critical about Singh’s policies. What is interesting is that Ghosh has managed to get both Singh and Sen to argue on this. But none of that features in the trailer. On being asked why he didn’t keep any hint of that in the trailer, Ghosh said, “I didn’t want to make it unnecessarily controversial. That’s why my trailer doesn’t have the Manmohan spat or any reference to the cow slaughter. It was an intentional decision not to use any of these in the trailer,” Ghosh explained.
 
 Meanwhile, there are talks about how the censorship row has derailed Ghosh’s chance of releasing the documentary on Friday. Though Kolkata encourages works of documentary film-makers, documentary films hardly ever get a mainstream release in the city. When Ghosh was asked how he had managed this coup, he said, “I am extremely grateful Pankaj Ladia. He had agreed to release it at the Quest mall from this Friday provided I had the censor certificate. Yadav Mondal, CEO of Nandan, too had agreed to show at Nandan 2 from this Friday if I got my censorship done. I had made the trailer thinking that I would be able to release the documentary on July 14,” he said.
 
 The director of films like ‘Nobel Chor’ and ‘Kadambari’ said that earlier on, he had never faced any problems with CBFC. “I never anticipated that such a big censorship row would surface in this case. In the documentary, Amartya-da has said in the context of Gandhiji that even if you can’t agree with him, there is still a lot that one can learn from him. I feel the same about Amartya-da’s own comments. One can disagree and yet learn a lot from them. Hence, it is so important to not censor his views,” Ghosh added.
 
 On being told that CBFC chief has accused him of stirring this row to gain publicity, he said, “I consider it beneath my dignity to respond to such ridiculous comments. But if he says something substantial to say, I am all for arguments. Reactions from across the world has come in. I think our government is concerned about how the world perceives India. This ridiculous controversy will surely tarnish the image of the government. I am not expecting   to resign because of this controversy. I am hoping good sense will prevail on the government,” he said.
 
 As for Nihalani’s claims that the Nandan 3 screening of the film was wrong, Ghosh said, “We took it as a private screening. The whole world allows this. I am surprised that Pahlaj Nihalani has no idea about trends in the whole world.”
 
 Nihalani had insisted that though he respected Sen, the CBFC reacts to the content of the film while issuing certification and not the maker or who is featured in the film. To this, Ghosh said, “If one sees the reactions from the entire world and our country, it’s evident that people agree that CBFC has been ludicrous to ask for the words to be censored. I would have reacted the same way if this had happened to any other Indian. All of what has been said in the film are objective facts. One can’t deny that.”
 
 Ghosh also claimed that he had submitted his application for certificate more than a month ago to the local CBFC office. “I have made six films before. I have submitted the documentary for censorship more than a month back. Since the online system started, there has been a delay in certification.” However, local CBFC sources claim that the documentary was only submitted for scrutiny on end June.
 
