LUCKNOW: On his first day in office, 
    got his team of officials to take a pledge to implement Swachh Bharat Abhiyan across the state. 

 Among his first executive decisions was discontinuation of services of all advisers, vice-chairmen and chairmen appointed by the SP government in different departments and corporations. These were mostly sinecures handed out to relatives and political favourites. 
 
  
  
 
 At his first formal interaction with UP’s top bureaucrats at Lok Bhawan, the CM also gave them a pep talk and issued them the BJP poll manifesto - advising them to adhere to it. Besides, they were asked to declare their assets within 15 days.
 
 Yogi also announced that the budget session would be held between June 15 and July 15. Later, the state government also issued a warning to bureaucrats of penal action if they failed to check cow slaughter, crime against women and communal flare-ups. 
 
 There were media reports that Yogi had ordered the withdrawal of beacons from all government vehicles, but there is no official confirmation.
 
 UP principal secretary (home) Debashish Panda and director-general of police (DGP)  , directed senior administrative and police officers on Monday to adopt a 
  to contain incidents that could disrupt communal harmony by effective monitoring of social media for timely police interventions. 
 
 At the meeting with officials, invoking Mahatma Gandhi, Yogi requested the bureaucrats - including chief secretary Rahul Bhatnagar, principal secretaries and secretaries of key departments - to stand up and repeat the one-page “Swachha Bharat” pledge along with him. 
 
 “Mahatma Gandhi had not only dreamt political independence for India, but had also conjured the image of a developed and clean nation,” the pledge began, and went to talk about the responsibilities of officers in getting the Clean India campaign implemented. “This was the first time we were asked to take a pledge to work,” said an IAS officer on the condition of anonymity. 
 
 Yogi also said cities from UP could barely make it to the smart city list because of poor sanitation. “Sanitation has to be taken on a war-footing,” he told them. 
 
 Focussing on the BJP’s election manifesto, Yogi said the security of women was the top priority and corruption had to be dealt with at every level.
 
 Tension was writ large on senior officers’ faces before the meeting and all of them were at the auditorium well before time. As soon as the chief minister, flanked by two of his deputies,   and  , positioned himself on the dais along with the chief secretary, the officers were asked to give them introduction. They stood up in a file and gave their names, departments and achievements. As soon as the introduction was over, the BJP manifesto was distributed and officers were told to religiously follow it.
 
 
 
