NAGPUR: On landing in Nagpur on Friday morning,   Narendra Modi first visited Deekshabhhoomi to pay tributes to Dr BR Ambedkar on his 126th birth anniversary. Later, at a public meeting here, he hailed Ambedkar as the architect of modern India, a tag that till date went with Jawaharlal Nehru. 

 The political message was loud and clear for Congress and Bahujan Samaj Party that the   was out to appropriate Bharat Ratna Ambedkar. 
 
 For years, the Congress relied heavily on the Dalit-Musilm votes and its leaders never imagined that the two communities would ever desert them. But, in the 2104 general elections and again in the UP state elections, the BJP claims to have broken all barriers of castes and communities. So, it was no wonder Modi discovered new qualities of Dalit icon saying it was Ambedkar who gave sound economic foundation to the country. 
 
 Added Modi: “Like Lord Shiva, Ambedkar too consumed poison (of humiliation and caste insults) but never expressed bitterness for it or showed vengeful attitude.” 
 
 Dedicating the digital cashless payment system to Ambedkar, Modi said it would go a long way in realizing the dream of equality in society and ending ills of corruption that affected the poor most.
 
 In the visitor’s book at Deekshabhoomi, where Ambedkar embraced the Buddhism in 1956, Modi wrote in Hindi that the memorial would continue to motivate crores of Indians. He said he felt privileged and honoured visiting the historic site and paying tributes to the Dalit icon. 
 
 Later, at the public function at Mankapur indoor stadium where he addressed the public, Modi released two special stamps — one depicting Deekshabhoomi and the other with pictures of Lord Buddha and Ambedkar.
 
 The Prime Minister’s convoy arrived at Deekshabhoomi at 10.45am. He was welcomed by the Smarak Samiti secretary Vilas Gajghate, Arya Bhadant Surai Sasai and Sadanand Fulzele and others. He informed the PM and other guests about the historic place. 
 
 Modi paid floral tributes to Dr Ambedkar’s urn and the statue of Gautam Buddha. He also meditated for a while near the statue. 
 
 The PM then took a round of the premises and also garlanded Dr Ambedkar’s statue outside. He greeted a big crowd which had thronged the venue since morning. Many were atop trees and nearby buildings. 
 
