PUNE: It’s not a dog’s life anymore. Restaurants in the city are laying out the red carpet not only for the furred but also for the feathered variety. From customized food menus to special crockery, dry treats and engaging activities, there is plenty on offer to pamper their taste buds and keep them in good humour.

 Recently, a five star hotel started the trend by organising a  . Encouraged by the turnout, some restaurants too have started wooing the pets of their patrons.
 
 And it is not just the food that restaurants want to tempt the pets with. From ramp walks to photo sessions to treasure hunts, there are plenty of activities to keep the pets engaged and barking for more. Woof!
 
 Take the recent high-tea party – ‘Let’s Take the Dog Out’ -- organised by Hyatt Pune which saw the four-legged friends strutting their stuff and walking the ramp dressed as ‘Superdogs’, ‘Batdogs’ and ‘Roadside Romeos’, among others. Also on offer were treasure hunts, spot games, photo sessions and talks by dog trainers and veterinary doctors. A special food spread for the guests of honour comprising pop-cakes, chicken, bones and other treats had man’s best friends smacking their lips and whooping in delight.
 
 Buoyed by the huge success of the event, the hotel administration now wants to make it a regular feature.
 
 But such options are few and far between for pet owners in the city. This is precisely the reason that prompted Ankoura Verma, marketing and communication manager of Hyatt Pune, to organise the event.
 
 Says Verma, “I have a Labrador but I am unable to take it out of the house much as there are very limited places where dogs can enjoy freely and socialise with others of their ilk. There are times when I too don’t visit restaurants as I cannot leave my pet uncared for. We all crave for opportunities where we can relax and unwind together in outdoor settings”.
 
 Anisha and Kunal Jaiswal too rued the lack of eating out options with pets. “We always feel sad when we have to leave our dog Romeo behind at home. We never thought we could treat him at a five-star hotel, so this has been one of the most happiest moments of our lives,” said Anisha and Kunal Jaiswal.
 
 Seema Seth, who brought her pet Slash, was equally excited and said it was the first such outing with her dog. “Slash not only got an opportunity to make friends, we also got to meet other pet owners and share our thoughts,” she said.
 
 To encourage such interaction among the pets and the owners, some restaurants have started opening their doors not only for dogs or cats but also for birds in their outdoor seating areas as they feel it adds to the comfort factor for the patrons who feel more relaxed with their pets sitting next to them. These restaurants have started dishing out customized food for animals, though it is chargeable.
 
 “Domesticated animals and birds are generally well-behaved and are hardly a hindrance to regular operations of the eatery,” the restaurateurs point out.
 
 Says Lavina Coelho, director (operations) at Cocoparra in Kharadi, “Having owners come over with their pets adds to the over-all ambience of the place. We serve at least one pet owner every day and on weekends, we have seen as many as 15-16 of our patrons come in with their pets. They are allowed to sit with their owners, and are even served pet-friendly food in crockery specially reserved for them,” she says.
 
 For a pet-owner, the animal is just as much a member of the family, believes Meeta Makhecha, executive chef and owner of The Flour Works in Kalyani Nagar which has been pet-friendly since its start in 2012. Batting for popularising the trend in the city, Makhecha said, “Keeping a pet confined to the home is not fair to the animal and more restaurants in the city should open their doors to them”.
 
 Admitting that many restaurant operators don’t allow pets to avoid putting off people who are not so animal-friendly, Makhecha said, “At my cafe, the pets are expected to remain leashed and sit next to the table itself so that they don’t disturb others”.
 
 At Cafe Joshua in Aundh, there is a separate menu for pets, designed according to the taste of the Labrador after whom the cafe is named though one can ask for customised food too.  , who runs the place, says dog lovers find pet-friendly places the perfect place to bond. “So many patrons come to my cafe only to check on Joshua, or to meet other pet owners. Patrons go all-out to organise birthday parties for their canines here, and even conclude adoption deals,” he said. Whoever thought cafes cannot be the venue for pow-wow with pooches!
 
