TRICHY: Criticising the Union government for imposing the national eligibility cum entrance test ( ) on Tamil Nadu students for   admissions, retired judge of Madras high court D Hariparanthaman on Saturday condemned its silence on the law enacted by Tamil Nadu against the test.

 Addressing a seminar and consultative meeting on the topic “NEET - a threat and danger to our students” organised by Tamil Nadu Educationists’ Forum here, the judge said “It is highly condemnable that the Union government is remaining silent without approving the act passed unanimously by the  , the DMK and the   in Tamil Nadu assembly not to conduct NEET in the state and to conduct the admissions for MBBS seats based on plus two marks.” 
 
 The objective of the conference was to oppose NEET scheduled to be held all over the country on May 7 for admission of students to MBBS courses in government and private medical colleges. “The students are very curious and confused too. In Tamil Nadu, 98 % of the students study state syllabus whereas NEET will be based on CBSE syllabus. It will be only appropriate to admit the students based on the plus two marks. It is undemocratic to ask them to write NEET which is derived from some other syllabus,” he said. 
 
 Recalling the scrapping of the entrance examinations for admission to MBBS and engineering courses in the state in 2006, Hariparanthaman said that the proposed NEET brought windfall to private coaching centres. “NEET paved the way for mushrooming of private coaching centres which are not affordable to poor rural students. When the state entrance exam was in force till 2006, the coaching centres were making a killing,” he said. 
 
 Asked if the quality of the uniform education in the state was on a par with other syllabus, Hariparanthaman said “NEET will not enhance the quality of education in the state. If the quality of the state syllabus is not meeting standards, it should be upgraded. Instead of doing so, it is not appropriate to impose CBSE-based NEET on the students.” 
 
 He also faulted the system for keeping the education in the Concurrent List of the constitution. “During emergency, education was included in the Concurrent List which requires the consent of the Union government for every move of the state government on education. It should be brought back to the purview of the state. Both the DMK and AIADMK failed to do anything on this aspect in the last 40 years,” said Paranthaman. 
 
