PATNA: Are the institutions of higher education in Bihar gradually becoming dumping ground for retired bureaucrats and  ? This question is doing the rounds in the academic circles ever since the state legislature passed State University Amendment Bill recently, paving the way for appointment of retired civil servants as registrars of universities.

 Academics point out that most vice-chancellors and pro-vice-chancellors appointed in different universities of the state recently by the chancellor in consultation with the chief minister and on the recommendation of duly appointed search committees happen to be retired academics. Then, the new university amendment bills also provide for appointment of retired state administrative officials of the rank of ADM as the registrars of different universities in place of academic registrars.
 
 Patna University Teachers’ Association president Randhir Kumar Singh observed that the recent Bill passed by the state legislature pertaining to the constitution of state level university service panel for appointment of all categories of university teachers and principals also envisage that the chairman of the panel will be a retired bureaucrat of the rank of chief secretary or a retired vice-chancellor and the maximum age limit for their appointment will be 75. Similarly, three of the six members of the commission will be serving or retired bureaucrats.
 
 He further pointed out that the universities in the state are already having retired government administrative service personnel as their financial advisors and finance officers. So, in the days to come, all the key administrative posts in the universities and other higher education institutions in the state would be manned by retired government officials. And, perhaps, all these retired officials would be asked to implement the road maps presented by the VCs and pro-VCs of different universities at Raj Bhawan recently, he said.
 
 Academics wonder as to how these retired officials would ensure smooth functioning of the universities. Universities are having state government nominees as financial advisor and finance officer for the last several decades. Still they are facing serious financial irregularities. Universities are often blamed for not furnishing utilization certificates to the government on time despite the services of these government-sponsored financial advisors and finance officers. All these officials fail to prepare the annual budgets on time and to convince the government of actual requirement of funds for payment of salaries and pension to the university people.
 
 In fact, the government has been trying to increase the bureaucratic control over the universities and to do away completely with the university autonomy, said All India Federation of University and College Teachers’ Organisations general secretary Arun Kumar and Federation of University Teachers’ Associations of Bihar working president Kanhaiya Bahadur Sinha.
 
 
