GURUGRAM: Nothing is going right in Haryana’s attempt at implementing   ( ) — which came into effect today — at the moment. Having begun late, the state had published a draft rule including tweaks specific to the state — H-Rera — on Friday, giving a 15-day period for ordinary and industry people to raise objections online. However, on the first working day since the rule was released, many people who wanted to register their objections over the draft H-Rera rule, have reported of their struggles to register their objections on the official website of the Department of Town and Country Planning (DTCP). The feedback section of the website was not working on Monday morning, following which, many took to twitter to express their irritation. The problem was reportedly fixed by afternoon.

 Some overzealous homebuyers went on to allege that the government is denying them the opportunity to register their objections. “I’m trying to open this page since 7am, but only getting error messages. The state government appears to have even blocked the feedback page, so public can’t leave their feedback, and corrupt builders can escape exposure,” said Rakesh Garg, a homebuyer.
 
 Many homebuyers said their hopes had been raised after chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar tweeted on Sunday, urging people to register their objections and suggestions. The tweet galvanised homebuyers. On Monday morning, the number of suggestions and objections filed increased significantly. “We don’t have exact numbers at present, but large number of people are giving their feedback,” said a senior government official, adding they will securitise all feedback and incorporate it in the final rule, as desired by the chief minister. He accepted there was some technical problem with the website, but said it was fixed at the earliest. “The website is working properly. People can also send suggestions via email,” he said.
 
 However, the draft rule left many homebuyers disappointed, as ongoing projects are expected to be left out of Hrera’s ambit. Homebuyer Suraj Sinha said, “We strongly object to the draft Hrera, which gives immunity to existing projects and allows builders to exploit homebuyers.” Lalit Badhwar alleged builder lobbies had managed to dilute   for their benefit. “Diluting Rera in the state will support builders at the cost of the common man, violating the spirit and basic principle of governance — of, for and by the people,” said Badhwar.
 
 Predictably, developers said they believe Hrera will create a level-playing field and help the sector in the long run. “Implementation of Rera will play a major role in strengthening the alliance between buyers and developers, giving trust and transparency to the sector. It is going to reform the Indian real estate market, making it more transparent, and bring in a speed, system and accountability,” said R K Arora, CMD, Supertech Limited. He said Hrera will regulate non-serious players and create a level-playing field.
 
 Ashish Sarin, CEO, Alpha Corp, said, “Rera will usher in accountability and transparency, and revive confidence of key stakeholders in the real estate sector. At the same time, we’re optimistic the government will also streamline and ensure expeditious approval processes at various levels for successful implementation of the law.”
 
 
