CHENNAI: The cultural maelstrom that the   kicked up has drawn in some businesses and products too since they represent lifestyle choices. For instance, the drought is being sought to be portrayed as ground for campaigning against soft drink majors Coca-Cola and Pepsi-Co and bottled water suppliers like Bisleri. Protesters allege these companies support PETA. Seed companies have also been criticised for their products and their impact on native farming and seed varieties. Protesters recall a recent Madras high court ruling that restrained Pepsi and Coca-Cola from using Tamirabarani river for their bottling plants in Tirunelveli.

 "In a drought-hit state like Tamil Nadu, farmers don’t have water to nourish their crops. Neither do urbanites get water from taps. People are having to buy bottled water and order water lorries," said Karthikeya Shivasenapathy, researcher, Kangeyam Cattle Research Foundation, who is recognized as a thought leader of the jallikattu protest. "Free flowing water from our rivers is tapped and resold to us."
 
 Siding with the sentiments of jallikattu fans, two industry bodies — the TN Vanigar Sangam and   — have called for shops to stop selling Coke and Pepsi starting from Republic Day. About 15 lakh small shop owners in the state are members of the two bodies. "Given the widespread protests against the MNCs, we have asked shops to stop the sale of these colas," said T Vellaiyan, head, Tamil Nadu Traders Federation. 
 
 Vellaiyan said while shopkeepers might suffer a temporary impact, the decision to sell local products such as ‘panneer’ soda, badam milk, fruit juice and tender coconut will benefit them in the long-term.
 
 Rooting for local brands such as Kalimark and Torino are hotel chains like RHR Hotels. In deference to local sentiment, other chains like Sangeetha Hotels and Saravana Bhavan have removed their advertisements and hoardings with Pepsi, Coke products. 
 
 Coca-Cola and Pepsico declined to comment on this issue. But the Indian Beverage Association, whose members include Coca-Cola and Pepsi as well as local brands, said Coca-Cola and Pepsi were playing a critical role in improving the livelihood of more than 5 lakh farmers and 4 million retailers in the country.
 
 Expressing disappointment over the ban, Indian Beverage Association secretary general Arvind Verma said, "As responsible companies, both Coca-Cola India and PepsiCo India have made a significant contribution to Indian economy over the past few decades. These companies employ around 3.50 lakh people."
 
 A spokesperson for Kalimark, whose signature drink is Bovonto, also declined to comment on the issue, saying, "Kalimark is always in favour of fair play and competition."
 
 Other businesses that were caught in the midst of the agitation were IT majors. While there was a noticeable drop in attendance, most senior managers chose to ignore the activities of their techie employees, since the level of support and activism was significant. 
 
 Taxi aggregators saw a number of their drivers go offline to join #OccupyMarina. Food delivery companies suspended operations, while some IT startups encouraged their employees to join the protests. For instance, FreshDesk’s co-founder Girish Mathrubootham said he believed jallikattu was an integral part of our culture.
 
 PETA India found itself having to defend from many allegations too. "PETA India is an animal protection organisation focused on vegan advocacy and on encouraging compassion for animals in individuals, companies and in government policy. This has included campaigns focused on fast food companies and on encouraging retailers to stop selling animal skins. PETA US, our affiliate, has been successful in getting Coke and Pepsi to stop testing their food products on animals," Poorva Joshipura, CEO, PETA India told TOI.
 
 "Anyone who alleges any tie-up or motive for PETA affiliates’ regarding their communication with corporates other than to end animal suffering is living in a fictitious world," she added.
 
