KOLKATA: India's wrist spinners once again came to the party to help India beat   by 50 runs in the second ODI at the Eden Gardens here on Thursday. It was not a perfect show by   and his boys as they were bowled out for 252 after electing to bat first. But   (3-54) and   (234) ran through the Aussie middle-order to wrap them up for 202.

 Yadav became the third Indian, after Chetan Sharma and Kapil Dev, to record an ODI hattrick as he removed Matthew Wade, Ashton Agar and Pat Cummins in the 33rd over of the Australian innings to virtually seal the match in India's favour. This was also the second ODI hat-trick at Eden Gardens after Kapil achieved the feat in 1991 against Sri Lanka.
 
 It was Bhuvneshwar Kumar who provided India the right start by removing both the Oz openers -Hilton Cartwright and David Warner -to reduce them to nine for two inside five overs. But a 76-run third-wicket stand between Travis Head and skipper Steve Smith steadied the innings before the former fell soft ly, hitting a Chahal full toss straight to Manish Pandey.
 
 Skipper Smith, who looked determined to make his 100th ODI memorable, played a lone hand before being caught beautifully by a diving Ravindra Jadeja, substituting for Kedar Jadhav, at deep mid-wicket while pulling a short one off Hardik Pandya. Smith perished for a well-made 76-ball 59 that had eight hits to the boundary.
 
 It was Yadav who then hit the final nail in the Australian coffin. Wade got an inside edge onto his stump and Agar missed the drift of the delivery to be trapped in front. Cummins was foxed by a googly which he edged to wicketkeeper MS Dhoni.
 
 Earlier, the former skipper was again instrumental in setting up Maxwell's dismissal and enforcing a magnificent stumping. The batsman, who was trying to break loose, missed the line after stepping out to Chahal and in spite of the ball deflecting off his pad, Dhoni made a great collection and completed the stumping while taking a tumble.
 
 During the Indian innings, it was Virat Kohli who led from the front after missing out in the first match. Ajinkya Rahane too got back among the runs after failing in his last two innings. The Mumbai opener lost his statemate Rohit Sharma early, but settled down well to share a useful 102­ run second-wicket stand in 111 balls with his skipper.
 
 Both batsmen played some glorious cover drives. Rahane hit a 64-ball 55 with the help of seven fours, before falling to an unfortunate run-out after he hesitated to go for a second run and failed to beat a Cartwright throw from the boundary.
 
 India lost the momentum as they lost Kedar Jadhav, Kohli and Dhoni within a span of 18 runs. Just when the India skipper looked good enough to get his 31st ODI ton, he got an inside edge on to his stumps. He fell for 92 off 107 balls with eight fours.
 
 
