If you have ever marvelled at the wondrous architecture of the   (IIC) or lazily lounged at the   or have been awestruck by the serene landscaping of the Lodhi Garden, then you have master architect Joseph Allen Stein to thank. To celebrate the works of this American architect - the only architect to have a street named after him in Delhi, Joseph Stein Lane - and his contribution towards some of the most iconic landmarks of Delhi, Australian High Commissioner   hosted a panel discussion on Friday at one of Stein’s buildings in Delhi and her current residence - the   in Chanakyapuri.

  
  MaryKay Loss Carlson, charge d'Affaires of the USA, with husband Aubrey Carlson
 
 
 
 Sidhu said, "Having a residence in Delhi designed by Joseph Stein for Australians must be the same as having your home designed by Jørn Utzon - the Danish architect, who created the Sydney Opera House. It is a great privilege, and living here is delightful. The things that Stein strove for - a building that is at one with its garden and surroundings, a sense of openness and freedom of movement, of light and air – they are all apparent every moment in this place."
 
 
 Recalling her memories of working with Stein, Meena Mani, an architect and one of the panelists, said, "Some of the most iconic and timeless buildings have been built by him, including the India International Centre. One of his oft-repeated dictum was that a building should stand the test of time, and his buildings in the city very well testify to that. Even the Australian High Commission, which is over 60 years old, has stood the test of time."
 
  
  Yashodhara Dalmia
 
 
 
 Meena added, "Stein followed Mies' dictum 'God is in the details' very closely. And all his buildings here are examples of this dictum. Stein knew every tree and bird in Delhi; he knew which blight had affected which tree, and in which year. He used to take us to these long drives to our model-maker, who used to live in Anand Parbat Industrial Area, and we used to drive past the Secretariat Building and the Rashtrapati Bhavan and on the way, he would tell us these interesting stories about the trees in Delhi and what had happened to them. He was concerned with the environment and all his designs are constructed in respect to the environment."
 
  
  Bim Bissell
 
 
 Another panelist and architect, Ashok B Lall, who had worked with Stein in the '70s, told us, "I remember him telling me that he was looking at a good place to work. He decided to make a home in Delhi. He found this house in Sundar Nagar with a great view of the Red Fort."
 
  
  Meena Mani
 
 
 JK Jain, another panelist and architect, who had worked with Stein for many years, said, "I worked with him on the Hall of Technology, Pragati Maidan, among several other projects; it was a great learning experience. It was remarkable how he would pay attention to the minutest of details, be it the jalis or the light fixtures of a building. He liked earthen colours, which would bring him closer to the nature and it is evident from buildings like IIC or Triveni Kala Sangam."
 
 
 --Aditi.Pancholi@timesgroup.com
 
 
 
 
