NAGPUR: A family court here denied a husband’s   while observing that when he can build the empire, he can’t claim to be under   on account of wife’s cruelty. Three decades after they tied nuptial knot and having two grown up children, the engineer   knocked judiciary’s doors for separation saying his wife used to deny his   and deserted him.

 “If husband had so much prosperity to build almost an empire, how can it be believed that he was under stress or faced   from the wife. His wife has been with him since his struggle days and he can’t deny,” principal judge IM Bohari said.
 
 He pointed out that since the husband entered into extra marital affair and had a daughter from that, he shouldn’t be allowed to take advantage of his own wrong.
 
 The couple entered into arranged marriage on June 14, 1983, and soon after husband got admission in an engineering college in neighbouring region. Leaving his wife and ailing mother behind he went to pursue the degree. He contended that he was forced to come back to city and join another engineering college as his wife used to ill-treat his mother. He lost an academic year due to shifting and completed his graduation in 1987-88. Till 2012, they had a son and daughter, both of them went on to become engineers and well settled in their lives.
 
 The man finally approached court arguing that his wife had suppressed facts from him that she wore spectacles and was suffering from tuberculosis prior to the marriage. Denying all allegations, the wife claimed that husband was paying just Rs 500 as alimony despite having property of Rs 50 crore and earns over Rs 60 lakh per year through his business.
 
 The court straightway rejected husband’s contentions. “It’s crystal clear that cohabitation between couple lasted for over 30 years. After such a long cohabitation and two children, it can’t at all be believed that the husband suffered from mental cruelty of wife’s alleged tuberculosis and spectacles. On the face value itself, the petitioner needs to be disbelieved, as tuberculosis is curable and spectacles can’t entail any deformity,” Bohari stated.
 
 The court also turned down his contention that wife used to deny his paternity of both children. “The petitioner himself being BE (Civil) can’t be believed that he didn’t know what DNA tests mean. He seems to have levelled false allegation. There was no reason for her to do so because her both children were taken care of and educated by the husband only,” he said.
 
 
