Starting off with a draw against   of Bangladesh at the   might look like bad news for the rest of us. But for chess champ  , “it’s all part of the game”. And Harika made that clear when she, undaunted by the shaky start, made up for it by winning two tie-breakers on Monday, and qualified for second game. 
“The knockout system means one mistake and you are out. That makes it a lot more gripping. And that’s the reason why chess players actually look forward to this once-in-two-years Championship,” says Harika, nonchalantly. 
 All eyes have been on the 26-year-old since 2016, which was admittedly, a “great year”. She won the Women’s Grand Prix in China, climbed up the ranking order to become World No. 5, beat  , Women’s World #1 and drew with black against Wesley So, World No.2. Phew! No wonder then that India has pinned some big hopes on her this championship. In a chat with Hyderabad Times, just ahead of her trip to Tehran, Iran, Harika Dronavalli gives us a peek into her strategy, her mind and her life. Excerpts.
 
 
 
 Well, more than anything else, I have changed my point of view. I started taking more risks. Psychologically too, I’d say I am stronger now; I’m not worried about taking risks at all. It’s not that I haven’t been confident enough to take risks in the past. But this change happened when I observed that I would always go for the safer bet. Safe is just my general nature — that sometimes reflects in the game as well. So I wanted to consciously start taking risks; and it seems to be working. (laughs) 
 
 
 
 Um, i’m not so sure about that yet (laughs). but yeah, I have been exploring new horizons; travelling a lot. That’s perhaps the first step. I went on a trip last year with my friend Eesha Karavade; that was something new for me. i travelled to Vienna and Hungary. And it was so much fun exploring new cities and cultures. 
 Although I have visited about 45 to 50 countries for tournaments, I have only vacationed in three or four, that too only since the past two years. I want to add more and more countries to that list. 
 The thing is that when we go out to play tournaments, we don’t always plan those two extra days to travel. I have just started doing that and it feels great to be finally exploring places while still playing some good chess. 
 
 
 
 Yes, you can say that (laughs). But even as a queen, my favourite in my courtroom — the chess board — is the white knight. I like starting the games with white knight on F3. It’s become a part of my game over the years. You could say he is my knight in shining armour. (laughs) 
 
 
 
 The search is on. If you ask me what I want in my knight —– just someone who would 
 support me. 
 
 
 
 I think I have seen life ONLY through chess and with chess. I mean, back when I was a child, I didn’t think that chess was going to become life. But today it has and I wouldn’t have wanted it any other way. So today when I say I’m taking risks, it’s perhaps the risks I am taking on the board talking. But then through that I see an internal change from being this soft person, to a more of a risk taker, although in baby steps. 
 
 
 
 I still am a homebird! When I’m in Hyderabad, I love spending time at home. But of late, I am also playing a lot of badminton. That has helped me meet new people, make new friends on the court... But I would still not call myself an outgoing person. I love being a homebody.
 
 
 
 (Laughs) Yes, I cannot travel without my karam podi, coriander powder, basically all the spices... 
 Wherever I go, I decide what I want to eat based on what veggies I can buy there locally. nowadays you find Indian spices everywhere, but still they aren’t as good as the ones we make at home. When my grandmother travels with me she cooks for me. But when she is not there, I ensure I have packed everything I need and I cook for myself. my day is not complete without pappu-anam. But I’m slightly getting better of late. Now I can eat salads and stuff (laughs). Cooking is also a way for me to unwind, and have some fun amidst all that stress of tournaments. 
 And those who I have cooked for say I make really good palak dal.
 
 
 
 A Ganapati idol, which my friend gave in 2014. It has to be with me always, everywhere I go. sometimes, I fall sleep with the idol in my hand. I also take the small, small gifts that my friends have given me over the years. I have them in my bag always. It makes me feel like all my close people are with me. It’s not like I believe in good luck charms or anything, but I am a very emotional person, so I like to kept these tokens of love and affection close to me. 
 
 
 
 I used to have a lot of superstitions in the past, but now I have grown out of a lot of them. There are a few still; I can’t tell you what they are though — they’re like so stupid! (grins)
 
 
 
 Hmmm, so, if I won a game in a tournament wearing a particular shirt, I’d repeat that same shirt for all games. I don’t do that anymore, thank god!
  
 
 
 Travel a lot more, obviously. I also am becoming more and active on social media. I am doing this intentionally because I want to show the world what a chess player’s life is like. Most people think we lead boring lives, thinking all the time over a chess board, but we have very interesting lives. We get to travel so much and even pick the tournaments we want to participate in. I want to tell people that a chess player’s life is not boring thinking life. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
