GORAKHPUR: There’s twist in the tale in the Hindi heartland.

 While both Samajwadi Party-Congress and   are attacking the BJP over notebandi aftermaths in India, a 93-year-old printing press, which is a household name with Hindu deity worshippers, is on its way to surpass its all records of sales and turnover figures.
 
 The Gorakhpur-based   has already clocked Rs 46 crore from its sales of 1800-odd religious textbooks which include Ramcharit Manas (popularly known as Ramayana), Bhagvad Gita, Bhagvad Mahapurana and Shivpurana.
 
 Gita Press is a unit of   trust that has its editorial office in Varanasi and Kolkata.
 
 “Our annual sales till last financial year of 2015-16 at this time was Rs 39 crore. Faith drives this country and work of people. As the shlok goes, Sarv dharman partiyajya maam ekam sarnam brajah (there is nothing beyond God),” says Lal Mani Tiwari, manager Gita Press, Gorakhpur, who has been with the trust since 30 years.
 
 This despite the fact that the sales in December, 20 days after November 8 demonetisation, dipped marginally as compared to previous year but left behind the January sales. 
 
 “Our paper gets supplied from ITC and ink from Pune. We didn’t even have any problems from the retailers,” says Chandrasekhar Saraf, commercial manager.
 
 The trust insists that even their salary and PF transfer for the 215-odd employees is online and has never had any hassles.
 
 The press has already sold 2.75 crore copies of some of these books by December and will cross the 3-crore mark, the highest so far in the history
 
 The trustees say that the remarkable feature of the press that it still sells the tiny copy of Hanuman Chalisa for a 50 paisa and that of Gita for Rs 3.
 
 “So you can see the demonetisation didn’t have any affect,” quips trustee Baijnath Agarwal, who has been working here since 1950 as its oldest member. 
 
 The trust says that it will also continue to retail its merchandise of cloth as much their textbooks from their own 20-odd exclusive stores.
 
 But there is no sign of modern-day e-wallet facilities here yet.
 
 “You see, most of our staff is old. But our commitment towards serving the society remains at the top. We never laid off anyone. Only a few contractual employees who were working in technical department were removed by the contractor,” he insists
 
 
