PATNA: The Patna Meteorological Centre on Monday issued warning for pre-monsoon showers in different parts of the state, except the south-western districts, over the next three days.

 Weathermen claimed that districts, primarily in north and central Bihar, including Patna, are expected to witness thunder squall on Tuesday, followed by hailstorm on Wednesday. The north-eastern parts of Bihar, which are prone to thundering activities during Nor’Wester thunderstorm, are expected to witness more lightning activities over the next two days.
 
 Weather scientist Anand Shankar attributed the expected showers to cyclonic circulation over central Uttar Pradesh (UP) and an induced trough line stretching from UP and Jharkhand to Gangetic West Bengal adjoining Bihar. “The moisture incursion from the trough line and the prevailing high temperature condition in the state has created favourable conditions for thunder squall and thunderstorm. The system will intensify into thunder squall on Tuesday and thunderstorm on Wednesday,” Shankar told TOI on Monday evening and added the showers would lead to drop in temperature by a few notches, a common phenomenon of Nor’Wester thundershowers.
 
 The temperature in Patna has already dropped by three notches over the last 24 hours as the maximum temperature came down from 39 degrees Celsius on Sunday to 36 degrees Celsius on Monday.
 
 As per meteorology, excessive heating of the land during summer season results in convective currents that in turn help in formation of low cumulonimbus clouds, bringing rain accompanied by gusty winds. The Nor’Westers hitting Bihar normally originate from the Chota Nagpur Plateau region when air over the plateau heats up and gains altitude with moisture support from an anti-cyclonic circulation or similar weather system in China Sea or Bay of Bengal.
 
 Weathermen also claimed that the system was likely to neutralize from Thursday, paving way for revival of northward movement in mercury column. The Met office has predicted the maximum temperature to surge from 35 degrees Celsius by Thursday to around 40 degrees Celsius by Sunday.
 
 
