NEW DELHI: Outreach to the youth will be the most important part of BJP’s campaign as Gujarat gets ready for elections due later this year.
 
  The Vijay Rupani-led   government is planning to distribute subsidised tablets to 3.75 lakh class XII pass-outs in an attempt to reassure the youth about its performance.
  
  CM Rupani would also hold interactive sessions with the youth as part of his Jan Sampark programme and tell them that Gujarat was the number one state in implementing all the schemes of the  , top state government officials said.
  
  “The Gujarat government, even before demonetisation, opened maximum bank accounts under  . We are looking at appealing to the youth to support a government that delivers,” an official said.
  
  Officials claimed, as promised, the state government had provided 67,000 government jobs across various departments this year. “Also, Rs 50 crore has been allocated for startups.
  
  Changes in rules for class IV jobs to accommodate more people are already in practice. This has made the youth positive towards the government,” an official said. The state was also looking at more interactive sessions under the ‘Young Gujarat for New India’ initiative, under which the CM had till now met 175 students, top officials said. “Many first-time voters are getting passionate about politics. They also influence their family members and are active on the social media. There is an unstoppable wave for PM Modi, especially after UP which we are trying to cash in,” a BJP insider said. Regarding jobs, a top official said: “We have 48 employment exchanges. The aim is to show that Gujarat can set a model for the country by providing employment to the youth by integrating the data of private and semi-government enterprises, PSUs and employment exchanges.” He added the problem of unemployment in Gujarat was overrated as the state had been generating over 80% jobs in the country, along with states such as TN. “The state has managed to create over 3 lakh jobs in the last three years.”
