ALMORA: Lean margin of victory, or defeat, in polls gives an impression of a tough contest. But, at times, it also betrays the disenchantment and confusion of the voters with their representatives.
 
  Ranikhet constituency of Almora district, which has 78,577 voters, has been witnessing a similar contest for the past two polls.
  
  In 2007, Congress’ Karan   had defeated BJP candidate   by just 205 votes. Bhatt had his revenge in the 2012 state elections when he trounced Mahara, but only by 78 votes.
  
  Both the leaders are again facing each other in Ranikhet.
  
  The people of the constituency, which is incidentally the hometown of chief minister Harish Rawat and BJP state chief Bhatt, have been facing the problem of water shortage for the past 15 years. After several protests and as many assurances, nothing but disappointment came their way.
  
  To this day, people in many areas walk several kilometers to fetch water for their daily needs.
  
  When asked about the water problem, a visibly upset Tulsi Devi, the gram pradhan of Sokhola village, said: “There has been no rain for the past four months, so all sources of water have dried up, even though there are taps in front of everyone’s house.”
  
  Devi said that she walks for over five kms daily to get water.
  
  In spite of several schemes, under which pipelines and water tanks were constructed by the authorities, there was no respite as most of the water sources have also dried up. No alternative to address the water shortage was worked out.
  
  MLA Bhatt said that five pumping schemes and three tube wells were built to ensure seven lakh litres of drinking water supply every day.
  
  But, the residents claimed that it was not enough to solve the menace of water crisis plaguing the constituency for past 15 years. “The crisis has worsened as too many pipelines are drawing water from limited number of springs,” a resident said.
  
  Apart from the ubiquitous water scarcity, several other problems plague the Ranikhet constituency.
  
  Ranikhet is a cantonment town, due to which several curbs have been imposed in the area. People of the constituency have been demanding an urban civic body in place of cantonment for development.
  
  “I would definitely like to see Ranikhet grow as a district in an orderly fashion. It has to be a joint exercise involving the central government, the state government and directorate general of defense,” said Lt Gen (retd) MC Bhandari.
  
  The people of the constituency complain about the lack of facilities in their region, as compared to the cantonment area.
  
  “The town has 11 playgrounds for defense forces and none for civilians. The children of civilians play on farmlands. We need permission to repair our houses because it’s a cantonment town. We cannot do public meetings in Ranikhet because it’s a defense area. Civilians are also humans like army personnel.
  
  “And, when, we complain of basic things like electricity and lack of drinking water, politicians tell us they cannot do anything because it is a defense area,” said Himanshu Upadhyay, the son of Ranikhet’s first MLA,  .
  
  The residents don’t like to be “tossed” among the parties.
  
  “We want Ranikhet to develop into a big tourist place. I have not seen 300-degree view of the   anywhere else. There is so much to do here. But, we also don’t like to be tossed between BJP and Congress. We need local people to fight for rights of our people,” added Bhandari. 
