LUCKNOW: Primarily known as a party of upper castes and baniyas who play mandir, polarisation and development cards, BJP this time has used the caste formula, a forte of Mulayam Singh Yadav and Mayawati that kept the two regional parties in power for around 15 years in the state, with perfection. Expanding support base among non-Yadav OBCs and non-Jatav Dalits was first made by   and the outreach, helped by the Ram Mandir movement, paid rich dividends for the party. In 1991, the BJP led by Kalyan Singh rode to power with 221 seats, won 177 in 1993 and bagged 174 seats in 1996.

 But by late 1990s, it was abandoned after Kalyan Singh left the BJP and  , Kalraj Misra, Kesarinath Tripathi took centrestage. By 2002, the BJP could win only 88 seats. That was the time Mulayam Singh Yadav-led   with 143 seats and Mayawatiled Bahujan Samaj Party with 98 seats emerged as two principal players.
 
 The first attempt to revive the social coalition was made by   who paid heed to Kalyan Singh's suggestions. Modi's own appeal as the first “backward' to have made it to the PMO on his own steam was another factor. During the 2014 Lok Sabha elections, Amit Shah came to UP as in-charge. The first sign of the BJP shifting back to wooing non-Yadav OBCs was evident when it fielded 25 OBCs, 17 Brahmins, 14 Thakurs, 17 Dalits, three Vaishays and one Pasi and Bhumihar each, while tickets for two seats were given to the Apna Dal. A total 27 tickets were given to OBC candidates, including Apna Dal.
 
 They began wooing nonYadav OBCs early. In March 2015, Shah accepted invitation from Anil Rajbhar, then a SP leader, to address a rally .“Today is the beginning of bringing backward castes and other castes under a single umbrella. This is necessary because despite reservation policy, only one caste (Yadav) is getting all the benefits meant for Backward Castes,“ Shah had said at the `Adhikar Paao Maharally' in Varanasi on March 23.
 
 Shah inducted over 15,000 members of the Rajbhar community into the BJP. Shah went to Bahraich to garland the statue of Suheldev Pasi, a king who stopped Salar Jung's accession. The BJP leadership also focused on nonJatav Dalits. Modi's visit to Ravidas Temple in Varanasi was seen as one such move.
 
 In the meantime, party strategists were on job not only to woo prominent OBC leaders into the party fold but to project OBC leadership of the BJP. Appointment of Phoolpur MP Keshav Prasad Maurya as UP BJP chief was one such move.
 
 The attempt was to woo about 8% of Kushwaha, Maurya, Shakya and Saini community.
 
