NAGPUR: Tapping the theatre loving audience in the city was the Marathi play Kshan Ek Pure produced by   and presented by   on Friday at   hall. Revolving around the time-tested theme of family ties, the play written by Dr Manik Wadyalkar had a local cast and crew with   holding the director’s baton.

 Playing around the theme of joint family system and the burden it places on each member of the family, the story managed to send across message of sensitivity towards elders and tolerance and acceptance required to build family ties. 
 
 The two-act play opened into the home of a family coping with the tragic loss of its eldest son and revolved around the pain felt by the old and ailing father capably played by Shyam Asarkar. The stoic and courageous daughter-in-law Sulabha was well essayed by Seema Godbole. Mahesh Godbole deftly handled the dilemmas of the younger son Nana and his almost failing relationship with his girlfriend Tripti. Giving a refreshing and breezy touch to the otherwise emotional and melodramatic story was young Meghna Gore in the role of Sulabha’s daughter Mini.
 
 What stood out was the effort to give an impetus to fledgling commercial theatre scene in the city. “There is a lot of amateur theatre activity happening here but nothing is done professionally,” says Nandwanshi who has been dabbling in drama for past three decades now.
 
 The city audiences shell out a lot of money to watch commercial plays from Mumbai and Pune being staged here with rising frequency. “But the local artists are not able to draw the audience,” says Nandwanshi adding that this play is an attempt to make a commercial presentation of a local production. 
 
 “The budget was Rs 50,000 and all the money has been pooled in by those involved. The actors have charged nothing,” informs Madhav Pranjale, the producer not deterred by the scant audience. “We had put a ticket charge of Rs100 but could sell hardly any. This is our first move and we hope to create an audience for local productions too,” he adds.
 
 
