Hollywood’s biggest night, the 89th Academy Awards, ended on a rather dramatic note after presenters   and Faye Dunaway wrongly announced Damien Chazelle’s musical ‘La La Land’ as the winner of the Oscar for Best Picture, and later called on stage the team of ‘Moonlight’ to accept their award.

 
 
  
 It wasn’t until the makers of ‘La La Land’ along with the cast and crew walked up on stage to accept the award and were midway through the acceptance speech that they were interrupted to announce that there was a mistake. It was then announced that  ' 'Moonlight' was in fact the winner.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 This shocker came after ‘La La Land’ picked up top honours of the night which included 
  and Best Actress in a Leading Role to Emma Stone. 
 
 However, the makers of ‘La La Land’ graciously made way for team ‘Moonlight’ who were ecstatic about the turn of events. As the teams of both films stood awkwardly on stage, Beatty explained he had been given the wrong envelope to open. It is being said that Beatty was handed over the envelope of ‘Best Actress in a Leading Role’ - a distinction that was 
  for ‘La La Land’. Having opened the envelope, the veteran actor was seen pondering over the name mentioned on the card. After a bit of deliberation, Beatty urged Dunaway to make the announcement, who went ahead to proclaim ‘La La Land’ as the winner. 
 
 
 
 Warren Beatty apologised for the error, stating that he was't trying to be funny while a confused-looking Jimmy Kimmel too came on the stage to take stock of the situation. Beatty even walked up to the microphone with the winner’s card in hand and displayed it to the cameras, to prove that 'Moonlight' was the rightful winner. 
 
  
  
 
 It was probably the first time in living memory that such a major blunder had been made at the prestigious awards ceremony. Emma Stone was even heard saying, "Is that the craziest Oscar moment of all time?" 
 
 
 
 Coming back to the Best Picture winner, 'Moonlight' producer Adele Romanski said she hoped the movie would inspire "little black boys and brown girls and other folks watching at home who feel marginalized."
 
 'Moonlight' is about a young boy struggling with poverty and his sexuality in Miami.
 
 
 
 
