Kolkata: The Central Board of Film Certification (CBFC) has taken cover under guidelines of the Cinematograph Act, 1952, to explain why it has asked to mute four words/phrases in ‘The Argumentative Indian’, the documentary on  . Filmmaker Suman Ghosh has refused to buy the argument, claiming the guidelines were “so subjective that any dialogue can be censored citing them”.

 The board had objected to “Hindu India”, “Gujarat”, “Hindutva” and “cow”. “All CBFC members are given the authority to interpret the guidelines their way,” Ghosh told TOI. “There is some higher authority who has instructed them to function this way. The entire system has left me frustrated.... The voice of opposition is needed and healthy for a functional democracy.”
 
 “We are public servants and have to abide by some guidelines,” said CBFC member Mala Dutta Ghosh. “All our recommendations are based on guidelines.” But then, guidelines are open to interpretation. Isn’t there room for difference of opinion? “It’s true guidelines can be interpreted differently. But as public servants, we give our views based on good faith. Under Section 5B of the Cinematograph Act, each board member is empowered to give an independent view. But we don’t take random decisions, and have to substantiate our views by matching them with the guidelines.”
 
 Other CBFC sources said the documentary had violated guidelines 2 (XV) and 2 (XII). The examining committee had asked for the word “Gujarat” to be muted where Sen mentions “criminality of Gujarat”. “Guideline 2 (XV) says the board shall ensure that the security of the state is not jeopardised or in danger. The board felt the phrase ‘criminality of Gujarat’ could be detrimental to the state’s interest. There were chances of public order in the state getting disrupted,” said a source. In the phrase “Hindu India”, the examining committee felt guideline 2 (XII) was violated. “According to this guideline, the board has to ensure that visuals or words contemptuous of racial, religious or other groups are not presented. The board felt this phrase might create problems. The word ‘Hindutva’, the members felt, might create tension. In the context of the word ‘cow’, the fear was about instigation of communal disharmony. Both these words violated guideline 2 (XII),” the source added.
 
 The committee’s recommendations and reports have been referred to CBFC chairperson Pahlaj Nihalani. The certification will be issued after his approval. If mutes are suggested by Nihalani too, Ghosh can either submit the revised version or approach the revising committee or a court. “I will wait for the certificate and then contest,” Ghosh said. 
 
 The Nobel laureate’s daughter, Nandana Dev Sen, has called CBFC’s move “absurd”. “It’s laughable, really, and rather embarrassing for the censor board, I think. They look so foolish and insecure, don’t they?” she told TOI. She is herself no stranger to censorship trouble. ‘Rang Rasiya’, a movie on Raja Ravi Varma starring Nandana, had languished in post-production from 2008 due to the CBFC’s objections with some scenes. The movie released in 2014.
 
 
