DEHRADUN: One of the premier government eye hospitals in the state is running its   (OT) — where delicate and   are conducted — without apparently adhering to the guidelines regarding sterilisation and   down by the   (MCI).
 
  Sources familiar with the set-up of the Mahatma Gandhi Shatabadi Eye Institute (MGSEI) located at Pritam Road in the city say that the OT has a toilet inside and 2 public lavatories adjoining it which is in complete violation of MCI norms. Also the OT is located in a corridor which is public space and therefore not a sterilized area as an operation theatre is required to be. The sources added that the OT was previously an administrative room that was converted into an OT by the doctors on their own “violating all the rules and playing havoc with the health of patients.”
  
  Dr RC Nagpal, chief medical superintendent of the hospital, says he is helpless about the matter. “Doctors started the OT without my permission. They have been told to shift to a newly-made OT but they continue to operate on patients in the makeshift OT itself.” Incidentally, the state director general of health was also apprised of the matter last month as per sources but no action has yet been taken by the health department.
  
  Two days ago, the hospital administration had issued a letter regarding shifting of the OT to Dr BC Ramola, senior eye surgeon associated with the hospital. The letter, a copy of which is with TOI says, “The location of the OT on the first floor of MGSEI in the middle of the administrative block i.e. a public place, adjoining male and female toilets is not at all an ideal place to run an eye operation theatre and hence is not acceptable. Moreso, your OT itself is having one toilet inside which is highly objectionable and hence such an OT is not permissible.”
  
  When queried, Dr Ramola told TOI, “Our motive is to conduct as many operations as possible without any hassle to the patients and of course in adherence to the guidelines of MCI. We haven’t been shown the new OT yet by the administration. Once that is shown to all the surgeons, then we will shift there.”
  
  The eye hospital was in the midst of controversy last year when it was inaugurated hurriedly by the previous Congress government even though infrastructure to conduct surgeries was not yet in place. Subsequently, the health department had directed all the six doctors deployed in the hospital to conduct surgeries in the nearby Coronation hospital. However, after a few months, the surgeons started conducting the operations in MGSEI itself by creating the makeshift OT.
