ThHIRUVANANTHAPURAM:   has created aweb portal exclusively for   to utilise their service in tracking down  .The portal was officially launched here on Tuesday by  . The portal's web address will be announced by the department in the coming days.
 
 According to state police authorities, the idea behind the portal was to bring all the mobile phone technicians in the state under a single umbrella.The police would upload details such as IMEI number of stolen mobile phones and whenever thieves approach the technicians for selling or unlocking these devices, they can report the matter to the police.
 
 The police have already sent out directives to various associations of mobile phone technicians to encourage their members to register with the  . The help of local bodies will also be sought in this regard by asking them to make it mandatory to secure a no-objection certificate from the police to avail shop licence from the local bodies. This would make registration of new technicians under the website easy , according to IG (Thiruvananthapuram) Manoj Abraham, who is in charge of the Cyberdome.
 
 During the event, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan officially announced the Cyberdome securing ISO27001:2013 certification, which is an international standard for implementing strong information security management system.Pinarayi Vijayan said the Cyberdome has become the first law enforcement agency in the country to achieve this feat.
 
 He also said the Cyberdome has become a successful experiment and soon its regional centres will be set up in Kochi and Kozhikode. Ever since it became operation over one and a half years ago, the Cyberdome could remove over 250 social media pages that promoted various kinds of crimes, including child pornography , and could also conduct security audit of over 150 websites and over 20 mobile applications run by the government. The CM also officially launched a mobile phone app based on augmented reality aimed at sensitising children about pitfalls that await them in the cyber world.
 
