NEW DELHI: Last year, when   loftily claimed that the   was the much-needed disruption in Indian football, never would have the   ( ) president imagined that the greatest disruption to their grand plans of the unification of the league would come from the tiniest stakeholders in the Indian game.

 By winning the I-League,   and its community-based ethos have thrown an ethical spanner in the works of the AIFF and Reliance-IMG, the federation's marketing partner for whom big sponsors alone is the yardstick for excellence. Now what do you with a problem like  , and their most legitimate claim to be part of the unified league? With growing attention on the issue and support for the club, the AIFF finds itself in a moral dilemma.
 
 In his letter to Patel on Tuesday, Robert Royte,   FC's owner, among other things memorably termed the ISL as an 'unrecognised inter-city tournament'. He spoke to TOI on the club's plans ahead. Excerpts:
 
 
 
 
 We have formally written to the AIFF for Aizawl FC to be included in the unified league that they are planning. It is unacceptable that the reigning champion of India relegated from the top league due to its merger with an unrecognised inter-city tournament. To be told to instead play in the second division is a ridiculous proposition. What will the Asian Football Confederation and the other clubs in Asia think of India when Aizawl will be there as a 'relegated' team? We believe that the AIFF is a reasonable body that will accept our legitimate claim. If they do not, we will not stop and knock on the doors of the higher authorities including the sports ministry and even approach the Prime Minister. There is no reason why we shouldn't be in the top league.
 
 
 
 
 The championship is good enough. We believe that the winning the title is reason enough to qualify. There is no need for a fees of any kind, certainly not something as exorbitant as that. We will tell the AIFF to consider our record as reigning champions.
 
 
 
 
 No, we are in this by ourselves. We have not received any signal or intimation from the Kolkata clubs nor have we approached them. You see, we believe our case is different and far more genuine one. We will fight this ourselves.
 
 
 
 
 No, we like to play. That's what Aizawl FC has always shown, and we play against the odds -in our first I-League, being runners up in the Federation Cup and winning the national league this time.
 
 
 
 
 The ball is in the AIFF's court. We have public support and sympathy with us now, and it is growing. In every major Indian city, our supporters are ready for a human chain as a form of protest against this discriminatory and unfair terms of merger. If things worsen, they will even go on hunger strike and fight till the end, but we will see that Aizawl FC gets its rightful place.
 
