NAGPUR: Harshel Thomas Yona is a retired employee of the state irrigation department. But that is hardly his identity. He is popularly known for starting one of Nagpur’s oldest music groups, Navneet Orchestra, in 1968. 

 “Music was not regarded as a career option in those days. A government job was deemed respectable. Luckily, the officers in my department were encouraging,” he says. Thomas began dividing time between work and his dream of playing music. But this story is not just about him.
 
 Cut forward to 2002 when Thomas retired. He taught children keyboard at Mor Hindi Bhavan while his wife Lalita Thomas taught classical music. “With keyboard, I would make children sing. During those classes, several old people would gather outside, looking for a chance to join. I’ve seen senior citizens usually being turned away saying ‘Tumko kaun sunega?’ I would invite them in,” he said.
 
 Lalita, former member of Bombay Ladies Troupe and currently secretary of Women’s Congress, Nagpur, has been singing since childhood and is known to sing songs of Manna Dey, Rafi and Altaf Raja in dual voice.
 
 Thomas and wife Lalita found that there were many a senior folk deeply interested in singing, but had never given it a chance. This paved way for Kalasrushti in September 2003. Every member of this group, whether professional or not, has a heart to sing and play music, which they exhibit in the shows they organize, usually one show every month; sometimes for events at orphanages, jails and churches too. 
 
 “These shows are free. Whatever shows we do and contests we participate in, the money is pooled from within ourselves. We are a registered NGO, but we don’t ask for donations,” says Lalita.
 
 The group recently completed 13 years, which they commemorated with a show ‘Geet Sangeetmay Safar’ at Patrakar Bhavan“Music is a gift, it gives you wings,” says Mona Verma, author of several cookery books, and a member since past six months. 66-year-old homemaker Anuradha Varhokar says it is relaxing to join the group each evening. “I have always liked to sing, but I never took it forward.”
 
 Sudha Kashiv, the author of three poetry books says, “We are planning a show where I will be singing 25 songs. This makes me feel complete and forget stress. We are like a family.” 
 
 Apurva Masodkar, 56, is a news reader at Aakashwani. He has been associated with   since eight years now. Dr Rashmi Kolhe, who runs an ayurvedic clinic, never got time to pursue her interest in music. “There is so much love for the group. I try to finish work and come running for practice sessions,” she says. 
 
 The group also performs drama. Last year, their comedy play ‘Murda bol utha’, performed at Fylfot Forum’s All India Drama and Dance Competition, Shimla, won the consolation prize. 
 
 Written by Thomas himself, the play was also performed a decade ago in front of Pranab Mukherjee, now President of India, in Nagpur. The group has written and performed several other plays, all of them comedy — ‘Kya ho raha hai’, ‘Cake taiyaar hai’, ‘Pagalkhana’, ‘Chhatridhari’ and ‘Kalyugi parivar’ are some of them. 
 
 For their practice sessions, they meet every day at 7pm, in a decrepit room at Rashtrabhasha Bhavan, Buldi, where they have made clearing in a room filled by dusty book shelves and other junk. “We ideally need a better room. But until that happens, no one is complaining,” said Thomas. 
 
 
