CHENNAI: The Madras high court on Monday refused to accept the explanation offered on behalf of Chennai city commissioner of police   and directed him to appear before it on March 27 in a case of non-compliance of court a directive. 

 On Monday, when the commissioner was to appear in person before Justice S Vaidyanathan, the government side said the report as called for by the court had been filed. 
 
 The judge, however, rejected the claim saying it was not there when he perused the case bundles on Friday. Monday's case list, however, showed the report as having been filed. Citing this, the judge said there were black sheep within the court establishment as well. It had been inserted without his knowledge, the judge said, directing the high court registry to ascertain as to who had sneaked it in without informing him. 
 
 Justice Vaidyanathan also dismissed as 'afterthought' the explanation offered by a government law officer in this regard and said such excuses were given 'for avoidance of the appearance' of the commissioner. 
 
 The matter relates to the judge's August 2016 directive to the commissioner, asking the latter to furnish details of cases pending before the central crime branch of the city police till 2011. Though it was to have been filed by December 6, 2016 the authorities did not comply with it. 
 
 This prompted Justice Vaidyanathan to direct the personal appearance of commissioner George on court on March 20 (Monday). However, on Monday, the commissioner did not appear, but a government law officer informed the court that a report had been filed. 
 
  The government side also said the Otteri police had inadvertently filed the report before the first additional sessions court instead of either informing the commissioner or the high court. The commissioner had no intention to violate court orders and that he had high regard for the judiciary, he said. 
 
 Rejecting the submissions, Justice Vaidyanathan said, "Let him appear in court and offer his explanation. Nothing wrong. If he too says the Otteri police did not keep him informed, we will order appropriate action in that regard."
 
 
