NAGPUR: Granting partial relief to two petitioners, the Nagpur bench of   has allowed them to stake a claim in their properties acquired by   (MADC) for the Mihan project.

 “The petitioners will be at liberty to make representation to authorities under Section 48(1) of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894, for release of their lands acquired pursuant to the notifications,” a division bench comprising justices Prasanna Varale and Zaka Haq held.
 
 Alternatively, the petitioners were granted liberty to inform the respondents that they do not intend to submit representation, and if it was made, they will be entitled to compensation for their lands acquired pursuant to the notifications.
 
 “The compensation to be determined by considering date on which the possession of lands in question was taken. If petitioners choose to file representation, and it was rejected, they will be entitled for compensation determined by considering the date on which possession is taken,” the judges said.
 
 The petitioners —   and   and Developers — had approached the judiciary after Nagpur divisional commissioner issued notices to them that the 59.50 hectare was likely to be required for public purpose on May 30, 2007. They were notified that the land was required urgently, and they would have to transfer the land to MADC at the earliest.
 
 Suretech challenged this through senior counsel KH Deshpande and Akshay Sudame while Vighnaharta moved the court through senior counsel Avinash Gordey and CV Kale.
 
 Both parties contended that the acquisition was made by imposing an urgency clause, while the authorities were unable to present proof of any urgent activities. They added that such order of acquisition of land should be issued by the state government and not by the commissioner, who is not competent authority to issue the notification.
 
 The land in question was acquired for project affected persons (PAPs) and therefore, the acquisition should have been made by following provisions of the Maharashtra Project Affected Persons Rehabilitation Act, 1999, they claimed.
 
 The judges noted that the respondents couldn’t explain as to why an urgency clause was imposed and since the acquisition was made for cause other than purpose, the petitioners were at liberty to make representation to authorities for release of their lands.
 
 (With inputs from Mayank Gurnani)
 
