CHENNAI: When Laura Eastman Malcolm first saw native Indian-American beadwork, she was fascinated. Today, the self-taught designer who is known for her beadwork, uses her skills to help empower women across the world, be it Afghanistan or India. The New Yorker is now in Chennai to help widows and `women at risk' learn skills for a livelihood.

 “I prefer to work with translucent and faceted beads.They reflect light, and with so much darkness and negativity around, so many people around the world are in need of light,“ says Laura, who is now trying to shine a ray of hope into the lives of women who are being supported by   as part of the   (WRP), a US-based non-profit organisation launched by Linda Mandrayar in 2010.
 
 On Friday, Laura will talk about her experience of working with women in various countries and also showcase the products made by Chennai women at `One Handed Clap', an event to be hosted at Maal Gaadi, a store in Besant Nagar.
 
 WRP collects saris donated by women all over India, which are then turned by widows in Vrindavan into scarves, kimonos, and tunic tops, are then sold across the US.
 
 “They also make jewellery out of paper and beads,“ says Mandrayar, whose tryst with India began when she married the nephew of late actor Sivaji Ganesan. Mandrayar who along with her husband made the movie `White Rainbow' on the lives of the women in the holy city, in 2005. “After the movie, people wanted to help, so I thought of starting a centre in Vrindavan," she says.
 
 Five years ago, WRP partnered with Sangita Charitable Trust, which has a widow outreach programme. “Once a month, they give rice, vitamins and sugar to around 450 women,“ Mandrayar says. The NGO also works with young women from neighbouring villages. “They are women `at risk' of becoming widows as their husbands are alcoholics or drug addicts,“ says Mandrayar, who decided to tie-up with Laura. “Our motto is `Helping Wo men Live Better Lives',“ says Laura. In 2005, she was invited to work with women in Kabul by an NGO but five years later the project was shut down after the Taliban put an end to it. The same thing happened in Mazar-i-Sharif, where she could work with the women for only six months.
 
 'One Handed Clap' will be held at Maal Gaadi from 6.30pm on February 24. People are also encouraged to donate saris.
 
