LUCKNOW: The Bharatiya Janata Party, it seems, is strategically pushing triple talaq and closure of slaughterhouses as its primary agenda with first phase of polling in West UP area to be held on February 11. A day after Union Minister of Textile   raked up the issue of triple talaq, it was the turn of Union Law Minister Ravi Shanker Prasad. 

 Prasad said that the triple talaq issue should not be seen with the perspective of religion as it is the issue of the rights of Muslim women. "We respect all religion," Prasad said and added that its question of "women dignity, women justice and women equality". 
 
 It is not acceptable that a section of women are being harassed like this, Prasad said and added that every pernicious practise cannot be part of religion. 
 Adding to it, there are 20 Islamic countries like Tunisia, Morocco, Bangladesh, Afghanistan and Pakistan etc which have either restricted the law on women divorce or have completely abolished it, the Law Minister said and added that when Islamic countries have put a restriction on the law and it has not been termed against Sharia, the Islamic law, why even a discussion on triple talaq in India is being seen as abnoxious. 
 
 Like Irani, Prasad also prodded Chief Minister  , BSP chief   and   vice-president   to clear their stand on the issue. 
 Interestingly, Prasad could not come clear on the issue on a question about the stand of BJP-ruled states in the country and said that everyone knows that all these states have been against the triple talaq. 
 
 Coming to closure of slaugtherhouse, while Prasad stressed upon closing the slaughterhouses, replying to a similar question on party's stand in its ruled states, the law minister said that efforts were made to close the slaughterhouses in   and Maharashtra but the matter has now reached the court of law. 
 Reiterating the party stand, he said Ram temple issue was not an election issue but a matter of faith. However, replying to a question if it is a matter faith why it has been mentioned in BJP's election manifesto, Prasad said that had it not been in the manifesto, the media would have begun making headlines: "BJP removes temple issue from party manifesto". 
 
 Earlier, he said that demonetisation has resulted in end to terrorism, naxalism and has put a brake on hoarding of black money. Adding to it, the demonetisation has also resulted in putting a brake on sex trade where pimps were getting commission of Rs 500 and Rs 1000 in exchange of girl trafficked from UP, Bihar and other states. 
 
