NAGPUR: Some new names were added to a couple of posts on the last day of nominations for   ( ) polls on Monday. The election committee, led by Bhanudas Kulkarni, finalized the names for various posts before closing the nominations in the evening.

 No new name was added in the keenly awaited fight for the president’s post. For the secretary’s post, G Venkatraman filed his nomination form, thus making it a four-way fight. 
 
 19 nominations were received for nine members of the executive committee, making it tough for all candidates. There is still some scope for a change in the candidates list, as Friday is the last date of withdrawing the nomination. The final list would be published on same day.
 
 The polls would be conducted for one post of president, secretary, joint secretary, library in-charge, and treasurer along with two posts of vice presidents and nine members. About 1,500 voters would decide the fate of all candidates on February 10. The results would be declared on the same day at 5.30pm.
 
 Though all candidates have started campaigning much before the date of nomination, the keenly awaited fight is for the top post between Anil Kilor and Shreerang Bhandarkar. 
 
 The former’s campaign got a huge boost after getting backing from none other than senior counsel Vyankatesh Manohar. Others including, senior counsel Subodh Dharmadhikari also supported him.
 
 On the other hand, Bhandarkar is well-supported by noted lawyers, including PC Marpakwar, PC Madkholkar, Jyoti Dharmadhikari, DG Paunikar, RL Khapre, PK Sathianathan RK Sundaram, NK Deshpande and others. Besides them, he also got huge support from a majority of young lawyers, both in high and district courts.
 
 The third lawyer in the fray — VG Bhamburkar — has also got some support, but the lawyers are not ready to give him any outside chance. Interestingly, he was been fighting for the top post since last many years and gradually increasing his vote count with every edition. During the last polls in 2013, he managed to garner over 200 votes, HCBA members told TOI.
 
 Kilor had started campaigning much in advance and it gained momentum after Vidarbha Connect (VCan) president Mukesh Samarth, withdrew for the sake of Vidarbha statehood, after being convinced by senior counsel Shreehari Aney. 
 
 Though Bhandarkar started his campaigning late, he is making it up with whirlwind tour of various courts, including   and District and Sessions Courts.
 
  THE CONTESTANTS
 
 President | Anil Kilor, Shreerang Bhandarkar & VG Bhamburkar
 
 Vice-presidents | Nitin Vyawhare, Dilip Daga, Purushottam Patil, & G Venkatraman
 
 Secretary | Prafulla Khubalkar, Rashi Deshpande & Deven Patrikar
 
 Joint Secretary | Bhushan Mohota, RC Raibhandare, & AA Sonak.
 
 Treasurer | PD Rane, GG Saoji, & CA Yadav
 
 Library in-charge | UK Bisen & SD Chande
 
 Executive members | Mir Nagman Ali, PM Anjikar, SR Charpe, Amol Chaware, PS Chawan, KC Deogade, Gajbhiye-Wasnik Nisha, VS Giramkar, Shilpa Giratkar, JP Junghare, SV Kale, PM Koratkar, LY Malewar, DK Padmagiriwar, Rutuja Palaspagar, AA Pannase, Sonali Saware, DA Sonawane, & RB Tandon
 
 
