HYDERABAD: Stressing on the importance of public safety, the Telangana government allocated Rs 509 crore for improvement of police infrastructure and public safety in Hyderabad in the 2017-18 budget. 

 The government also has grandiose plans to replicate the London model of CCTV surveillance in every street and alley to curb crime. To achieve this dream, there has been a budgetary allocation of Rs 185 crore for city-wide closed circuit television (CCTV) surveillance project. 
 
 Though a major portion of Rs 4,828.18 crore allotted for the home department in the annual budget would be utilised on salaries and office expenditure, a significant chunk has been given to the Hyderabad commissionerate for construction of the upcoming command and control centre and installation of CCTV cameras. 
 
 Presenting the budget in the Assembly on Monday, finance minister   said, "The Telangana government has accorded utmost priority to improve safety and security to the people. Apart from providing security, it will attract investments."
 
 Of the Rs 509 crore allocated for Hyderabad police commissionerate, Rs 145 crore has been allotted for construction of the Command Control Centre, Rs 50 crore for citizen centric traffic management, Rs 47.03 crore for construction of new police station buildings, offices, staff quarters and barracks, Rs 20 crore for procurement of data analytics to fight organised crime and criminal gangs, Rs 15 crore for modernising police stations as citizen-friendly service delivery units and Rs 6.84 crore for Ganesh immersion and other bandobust for festivals.
 
 Though the Hyderabad commissionerate has been treated well in the budget, the other two commissionerates - Cyberabad and Rachakonda - got a raw deal. On the other hand, Warangal commissionerate was allotted Rs 10 crore for construction of new building, while the Rachakonda commissionerate, which is yet to have its own building, has been allotted only Rs 4.97 crore. It is learnt the commissioner had sent proposals seeking Rs 93 crore.
 
 Similarly, Cyberabad police wanted about 50 crore and they were only allocated 5.97 crore. Hyderabad commissioner of police M Mahendar Reddy explained that 185 crore funds allocated for CCTVs were for all the three commissionerates. "Even data analytics and traffic management tools are for all three commissionerates and most technologies are useful for the entire state," said Mahendar Reddy. 
 
 
