GURUGRAM: The   of   areas has not only increased the size and voters’ count of   but has also added to the list of civic woes that will pose serious challenges to the next councillor.

 Before the delimitation, the ward mainly comprised posh areas such as DLF-1, 2 and 4, Garden Estate 27 and 28 (baring  ), where water supply has been a major cause for concerns all these years.
 
 “Water supply has been a huge problem for us. The situation only got worst during peak summers. We had to depend on private tankers for our daily needs and shell out hefty amounts. Despite paying property taxes to MCG, we did not get services from the civic body,” said Manoj Kumar, a resident of DLF-4.
 
 “Besides, streetlights don’t work most of the time, which makes the area unsafe,” he pointed out.
 
 Apart from civic issues like water, roads and streetlights, security is also a major concern for the residents of sectors 27 and 28. “Our sector is very close to MG Road, which has become a hub of prostitution and anti-social elements. We would like the new councilor to take up this safety aspect with the authorities concerned to make our ward safe,” said Sangeeta Rajan, a sector 28 resident.
 
 After the delimitation, “not-so-posh” areas like Maruti Vihar, Saraswati Vihar and Housing Board colonies, among others, have also become part of this ward and brought along their shares of civic problems pertaining to drainage, roads, water supply and other infrastructures.
 
 Illegally construction and rampant encroachment, among others, are the main problems plaguing Maruti Vihar and Saraswati Vihar.
 
 “The roads are extremely narrow and the basic hygiene is missing. Overflowing drains and dangerously hanging overhead wires are other problems. The civic authorities never bothered to do anything about our problems. There focus mostly remained on posh areas. We want the new councilor to be elected from our locality so that our problems are highlighted,” said Ashok Yadav, a Maruti Kunj resident.
 
 Councillor Rama Rathee, who had won this woman quota seat as an Independent last time, claimed that she was unable to carry out work during the just-concluded term as large parts of the ward was under the custody of private builders.
 
 “My area consisted mostly of DLF areas and was not under MCG during my tenure. However, I still tried to do as much work as I could and attempted to resolve the problems faced by the residents. It was only after my term ended that the process to transfer builders’ areas to MCG started,” she claimed.
 
 This time, her husband RS Rathee has decided to carry her baton. “Now, that the process has already been initiated to transfer DLF areas to MCG, I can exercise more power and execute more work to address residents’ problems. Also, with even Huda sectors being transferred to the corporation, the scope of work will increase,” he said. Sources said seven-eight candidates would be vying for this ward, which witnessed a rise in its voters’ count from around 17,000 during the last elections to 23, 500 this time.
 
 The BJP has given its ticket to Amit Kumar Arora, who is said to be close to a minister in the Modi government. INLD though has decided not to field its candidate from this ward.
 
 
