BENGALURU: AIADMK leader V K  , serving a   in   after being 
  , has met 28 visitors on 14 occasions in 31 days in blatant violation of rules, according to documents accessed by TOI.

 According to the Karnataka Prison Manual (KPM) and the Karnataka Prison Rules (KPR), a convict is eligible for interviews only once in 15 days with friends, relatives and advocates at the prison complex under the watchful eye of a prison official. But this has not been followed with Convict No 9234, Sasikala.
 
 She had 28 visitors from February 16 to March 18 and each person spent over 40 minutes with her, some on multiple occasions. Prison sources said it’s violation of prison rules and was sanctioned by higher-ups. Visitors were allowed to talk to her in a special area, often in private, they said.
 
 DG (Prisons) Sathyanarayana Rao, who has often denied that any special treatment was accorded to Sasikala, did not respond to TOI’s repeated calls on Wednesday.
 
 Among her visitors were AIADMK’s deputy general secretary and Chennai’s 
  , deputy speaker of Lok Sabha M Thambidurai, several party bigwigs and an MLC from Andhra Pradesh.
 
 Prison records show that Dinakaran met his aunt Sasikala on two occasions (February 20 and March 8) and each interaction lasted over 45 minutes. Kith and kin of regular convict are granted not more than 10 minutes at a crowded point and behind bars. But many relatives of Sasikala, including nephews Vivek Jayaraman and K. Karthikeyan, as well as her advocates have met her with ease, sources said.
 
 The records also showed that former MP and Telugu Desam Party MLC Magunta Srinivasulu Reddy met Sasikala on March 1. Political sources said Reddy, who has business interests in Tamil Nadu, spent 20 minutes for personal reasons.
 
 While Sasikala’s sister-in-law and fellow convict Ilavarasi had relatives meeting her on four occasions till mid-March, her nephew V N Sudhakaran wasn’t given privileges but was permitted to meet his Bengaluru-based advocate only once on February 18.
 
 
 
