We know   for its role in  , but now researchers are discovering its role in diabetes. According to studies, people with lowest levels of vitamin D are at higher risk of developing   in their later life. Newly diagnosed diabetics often have lowered levels of vitamin D than people without diabetes. Scientists think that vitamin D may have a hand in type 2 diabetes by playing a role in one's pancreatic beta-cell function, insulin action and inflammation. According to scientists, there are specific receptors in pancreatic beta cells that turn-on only if they get enough vitamin D and enough vitamin D can help these pancreatic beta cells function properly.

 The   (NHANES) III study demonstrated a strong inverse association between low levels of vitamin D and diabetes prevalence. With increasing vitamin D serum levels to normal relative reduction in the risk of developing type 2 diabetes could be achieved. Another study analyzed 712 subjects and results indicated significant correlation between vitamin D, insulin resistance and pancreatic beta-cell function. They suggested that patients with elevated A1C levels should be evaluated for vitamin D insufficiency.
 
 There are also evidences that suggest low vitamin D status may be associated with an increased risk of type 1 diabetes. A study demonstrated that vitamin D supplementation in early childhood decreased the risk of developing type 1 diabetes by 29% compared to children who were not given vitamin D supplements.
 
 During pregnancy and lactation vitamin D status plays a role in the development of diabetes in child. Vitamin D is a powerful modulator of the immune system and helps regulate cell proliferation and differentiation, which clearly establishes the role of vitamin D in preventing type 1 diabetes. An adequate amount of vitamin D in mothers showed to have an impact on reducing the development of type 1 diabetes in their children.
 
 If you have diabetes, it is important to talk to your doctor about your vitamin D status. Enough vitamin D may reduce your risk of developing diabetes and improve some of the aspects associated with diabetes.
 
 
 
 
 
