LUCKNOW: The Rs 36,000 crore burden of  ,  , seems to have made a dent in   development and welfare, which otherwise might have had a larger share in the UP Budget.

 Chief minister Aditya Nath Yogi has been promising expressways, power to all, per drop more crop and a push for infrastructure, but funding for key sectors including power, health, roads and irrigation reflects major cuts in the 2017-18 Budget.
 
 Another area where Yogi could have taken revolutionary steps is agriculture. Ensuring proper power supply or providing a dedicated feeder for irrigation could have brought some relief to  , who are saddled with a high production cost as they are forced to use shallow tube wells to water their crop. The state has 40 lakh such tube wells covering 80% of the irrigated cover, 75% of which run on diesel. The government could have worked on a two-pronged strategy, reducing dependence on shallow tube wells and increasing irrigated cover, which remains at 130 lakh hectare of the total cultivable 165 lakh hectare.
 
 Financial constraints have also compelled a more pragmatic approach, so no populist schemes have been announced. The previous government’s populist schemes too have been abandoned.
 
 The CM and finance minister Rajesh Agarwal mentioned about their commitment for the Rs20,000-crore Poorvanchal Expressway from Lucknow to Ghazipur, conceptualized by the previous government, but it does not find any financial support. Similarly, for the Bundelkhand express highway up to Jhansi, as was promised by the CM, there is no budgetary provision as such. 
 
 The previous government had made a provision of Rs850 crore for Lucknow Metro, but Yogi’s Budget allocates only Rs240 crore for five Metros including Lucknow, Kanpur and Gorakhpur. On the Metro projects in other cities too, it does not hold much promise.
 
 A comparison of the budgetary provisions made by the previous and present governments, released by the government itself, reveals that the allocation for scholarships of OBC, Minorities, General and SC and ST categories remains Rs1,950 crore in both the regimes; medical and health got Rs13,729.16 crore last time and Rs13,692 in this Budget; energy got Rs33,862 crore earlier, reduced to just Rs19,347 crore this time; funds for bridge constructions dipped from Rs1,789.79 crore to just Rs185.69 crore, while funds for irrigation too were reduced from the earlier Rs8,960 crore to Rs7,123 crore.
 
 
