NEW DELHI: Taking cue from crime serials, four men took to being courteous robbers and   over 60 people at gunpoint. All four members of the ‘Namaste gang’ were, however, arrested by the police on Thursday.

 The gang members would stop elderly commuters on the road and greet them with a ‘Namaste’ and pose as someone whom they might know. As soon as the victims stopped to greet them back, the gangsters threatened them at gunpoint and fled with whatever cash they had.
 
 They then sold the valuables and bought expensive cars like Audi and Range Rover with the money. Police said that the men had been involved in criminal activities for the past three years and had bought some flats even. Many of the incidents were captured on CCTV cameras as well.
 
 The accused, identified as Nisimuddin (32), Sakawat (32), Guljar (29) and Naim (21) told the cops that they usually targeted elderly people wearing gold jewellery. After selecting their target, one of the gang members would ride parallel to the target car in their scooter and would smile at the driver and say ‘Namaste’, after which they signalled the man or woman to stop.
 
 Assuming that they knew the men, the victims would generally stop the vehicle and wait for them. One of the members would then initiate a conversation with the victim from the right side of the vehicle while the other members would sit in the backseat of the car. They would then point a gun at the victim and threaten him/her of dire consequences if they do not hand over their valuables and cash to them.
 
 Once trapped, the victims would hand over whatever they have with them to the accused. “The men always took the wrong direction while fleeing so that nobody could catch hold of them,” said Dependra Pathak, joint commissioner of police (south western range).
 
 Police said that they received over 60 complaints from all across the city of being robbed at gunpoint in a similar manner. “A team led by ACP ( ) Ankit Chauhan and SHO Rajeev Bhardwaj was formed and after getting clues, the four accused were nabbed after a brief encounter and over 50 cases of robbery at gunpoint were solved with their arrests,” said deputy commissioner of police (west), Vijay Kumar.
 
 During interrogation, the accused kept dodging and misleading the team by presenting wrong facts. However, they broke down and disclosed that they were members of a gang who used to rob cash, jewellery and other valuable articles from elderly men and women, whomever they saw was driving alone.
 
 Police said that the accused had criminal cases registered against them in the past and have been jailed several times.
 
