NEW DELHI:  , one of the biggest sub-cities of Asia, was developed as a residential hub in northwest Delhi during the 1980s. This is where the stark difference between planned and unplanned residential areas becomes entirely visible. With basics like well-laid roads and spruced up parks already covered, demands of residents are restricted to maintenance, upkeep and addition of new facilities like recreational centres and open gyms.

 Spreading over 60 square kilometres,   is too big to be put under one assembly constituency. The Rohini constituency has four wards that were reshuffled but their basic contours remain the same. Earlier known as Rohini North, Central, East and Naharpur, the wards have been renamed to Rohini F, G, H and I. The constituency largely consists of planned sectors that middle-class families call their homes, along with areas like the Badli industrial area, Rohini Jail wards, a few slum clusters and Naharpur village.
 
 Rohini also seems to have benefited from its high-profile representatives. Deputy mayor Tara Chand Bansal, Leader of the house V P Pandey and the wife of BJP’s  , Dr Shobha Vijender, all come from these sectors. A resident of Sector 18, Krishna Kumar Arora, said, “Rohini has got the right attention because of good representatives in the corporation. There are no potholes on roads and parks are well maintained”.
 
 Many residents do not agree. “We haven’t seen our councillor in the last 5 years. These sectors have always been well maintained. It is not that the current people in power have done wonders. The drains have not been cleared and it will only get worse during the monsoon,” said Rajiv Gandhi, a trader in the DC chowk market. People coming to these markets complained to TOI about lack of parking space and public toilets, and illegal parking. 
 
 However, grievances of those living in the “non-sector” areas are completely different. “You don’t need a map. The condition of the road will tell you when you have moved out of the sectors,” exclaimed Rita, a social worker from Anchal Charitable Trust who works in the Raja Vihar JJ camp. “Focus is on areas where the rich live. Nobody looks at our problems. Garbage is not picked up daily and drains are not cleared. If you go to Suraj Park right now, you’ll find over a dozen stray dogs,” she complained.
 
 Another problem plaguing the residents is of cattle straying from Naharpur village to the adjoining areas, causing jams and accidents. Nirmala Devi (48) from Naharpur said, “Dairy owners leave their cattle to graze. Our parks are full of garbage and animals. Many kids have been bitten in the last one year”.
 
 “We have been registering FIRs against dairy owners from time to time,” said Dr Neelam Goyal, a representative from Naharpur. She listed initiatives that have been taken to remove potholes and dark spots from the area. “There were 11 dhalaos, 10 of which have been closed and are being converted into recreational centres and libraries,” Goyal said, adding that “some things could not be done due to fund crunch”.
 
 
