NEW DELHI: Six days into the strike by app-based  , neither the union nor the companies are showing any signs of backing off. Even as commuters had to pay  , violence and intimidation seemed to be the order of the day on Wednesday. Adding to the uncertainty was the breakdown of talks initiated by the Delhi government on Tuesday between a drivers' union and the cab companies. 

 Instances of intimidation were reported from Jantar Mantar where members of Sarvodaya Drivers Association of Delhi are on hunger strike since Friday. Several cabbies who had returned to work were allegedly forcibly stopped near Jantar Mantar and brought to the venue where they were garlanded by other protesting drivers. Their resolve to bring matters to a head was evident as Anwar Ali, speaker of the association, said: "If no measures are taken by the companies, we will block roads and not allow any other form of transportation." 
 
 Talks initiated by the Delhi government also fell flat as the Rajdhani tourist driver union walked out. Union president Balwant Singh said: "We have backed out of the talks and are not a part of the strike any more either." 
 
 A driver on the Ola platform at New Delhi railway station said, "I am supporting the strike but I have a family to feed. I pay rentals every day to the company. If I keep refusing their duties, they will confiscate my car. I am taking a risk being on duty, but I have to do it."
 
 Sky-high fares were the order of the day though more cabs were available on   taxi platforms. Both Ola and Uber had surge pricing in place with wait times being long throughout the day. Interestingly, rates of UberGo and UberX were almost the same with the surge pricing in place, even as Ola was pushing the "Auto" option in absence of cabs. 
 
 Anmol Punetha, a commuter stranded at NDLS, said: "The wait time is nine minutes, but the rates are double." Shubhika Singh, another commuter, found a cab near Noida Sector 16 till Pragati Maidan. "I managed to get a cab, but the wait time was 10 minutes and the rates were double. The strike has affected me as I am mostly dependent on app-based companies," she said.
 
 Autorickshaws continued to take advantage of the situation. A commuter at NDLS who came from Jasola complained that he was charged double by the auto driver. Mobin Khan (32) said, "I was aware about the strike, hence I decided to take an auto. The drivers refused to go by meter and were charging double the rate. Usually, it takes Rs 150 from Jasola till New Delhi railway station, today I paid Rs 300."
 
 
