In white floral-print lab coats, thrown over salwar kurta or sarees, a sling purse dangling across their body, these women represent everything that is right with life in Mumbai. They are the aaboli-brigade, the women autorickshaw drivers, who are conquering the roads with elan. In just over a year of the RTO announcing a reservation of five per cent auto license for women drivers, the roads have seen a major rise in women rickshaw drivers. And the pioneers of this revolution could not be prouder. Anamika Bhalerao is more of an institution in and around Thane. For the very first woman autorickshaw driver of the city, roads are less of a profession and more a way of life. “In another 4-5 years,” says Bhalerao, “you will only see aaboli autos on the road, the way you see black ones, today.”

 
 
 Says  , “For most of us, it started out as a challenge. We would see someone driving an auto, and think to ourselves, ‘Why can’t I do that?’ My husband would say, ‘You stay at home and look after the kids’. But then the kids grew up a little and I told him that when the government is doing so much to make it easy for us women, why are you stopping me? That is when he relented.”
 
 
 
 It’s not easy being a kid to a mother who is defying traditions and carving her own ways.   had to bear the brunt before the tables turned. “When I would go to pick my son up from school, he would protest because his friends made fun of him. Well, now, when I have made a name for myself, my son says, ‘Ma, can you come pick me up? I want to show my friends our new auto!’,” says Anamika. For Ashwini, the best part is when her kids fight over the vehicle. “My daughter says, it’s an auto driven by a woman, so it should have her name. My son retorts, ‘I am the elder one. So it should have mine’”. 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 Varsha Bhosale can’t help but chuckle as she recounts an incident, “Some men are too scared to sit in our autos. Once, this guy came towards my auto and saw that I am a woman. He was taken aback and he proceeded to take another one. The other male drivers asked him what was wrong and he said, ‘Woh toh aurat hai!’ I was amused!” However, we caught up with Sumit, a Sophia College MA student, who got into Anamika’s auto. When asked if he was apprehensive of taking an auto driven by a woman, he shot back, “Nah. If she has proven herself and got a license, she must be good at her job!” The outlook has changed a lot in the past year, the ladies explain. The government’s active involvement has made this profession an equal opportunity area and allayed fears and apprehensions. “Some male passengers take selfies with us. Others point us out to the women riding pillion on their scooters and say, ‘Look at her driving an auto. Maybe you should also learn it!’,” they beam.
  
  
 
 
 
 That’s exactly what these women believe. Because, for each of them, convincing family, husbands and to fight the apparent stigma of a woman doing a ‘manly’ job, was the one big hurdle. Says Kavita Bansude, who has been an auto driver since 2014, “My in-laws never supported us. They kicked us out four months into my marriage. We were living from hand to mouth and I did not have enough to feed my differently-abled kid. My husband also drives an auto. He was inspired by Anamika. He would come home and keep egging me to give it a try. As he was still driving a rented auto, it was a little difficult to teach me, because the owner would not allow it. But, we managed somehow, by sometime sneaking and sometimes begging them to give us the auto for some time, off duty. Now, I have got my own licence and life is looking up. I feel so respected.”
 
 
 
 For Ashwini, the mantra is, “Ek kaan se suno, aur dusre kaan se nikal do!” In a country where adrenaline bursts through the roof when on the roads, these are unforgiving tracks. Catcalls, abuses, snide remarks and comments are a regular part of their day. “Resistance from men is inevitable,” explains Avinash Bhalerao, Anamika’s husband, saying, “This state is purush-pradhan. We men have been brought up to take care of our women, while they stay inside the boundaries of the home. When these women, (points to his wife) first started encroaching on what the men thought to be their space, they tried their best to resist them, physically. They would get aggressive, stop them from parking in their lines… but things are definitely better now.”
 Anamika though had it tough, because she had nobody to look up to. “When I started out, the male drivers persuaded me to go back home. They would try to scare me, and tease me, ‘Bhabhi, what are you doing to our profession? Now we will have to put on bangles and go back to villages and wash utensils there’. And I would think to myself, ‘Wait for sometime. When more women join me, you might actually have to go home and wash utensils there’,” she laughs.
 
 
