In what is being alleged is a case of racial attack, a 22-year-old youth from   was found   in Koramangala in the early hours of Saturday. Police shifted the victim, identified as  , to   and initially registered a vehicular accident case. However later, they registered an FIR with charges of causing grevious hurt with dangerous weapons. All Arunachal Students’ Association of Karnataka alleged that the youth could be a victim of a   and have demanded a detailed probe into the incident.

 
 
 
 “The victim has serious head injury and has been completely paralysed. His roommate went looking for him and found him lying injured on the road. There have been numerous incidents of people from our region being targeted in the city. We are planning to get in touch with the home minister of the north eastern state, seeking steps to ensure their safety here,” said Toko John, president, All Arunachal Students Association of Karnataka. The association has also demanded police to release the CCTV footage of the incident. Khangham was working as a waiter at Sotally Tober, a pub in Koramangala and was on his way to his home at Vivek Nagar. He was found injured at 1.45 am on Saturday. Khangham had arrived in the city about four months ago. They said the victim was not drunk as per medical reports available with them. “We cannot rule out the possibility of the victim getting injured in an accident. We found his wallet and mobile phone to be intact and have ruled out robbery. We are probing,” said a police official. MB Boralingaiah, deputy commissioner of police, Bengaluru (South East) confirmed a probe had been ordered
 
 
 
 
 
 Itanagar : An MLA from Arunachal has alleged Khangham was thrown out of a running vehicle and it’s a case of racial attack, PTI has reported. MLA Gabriel Denwang Wangsu said it was not an accident but a murderous and racial attack. Wangsu said he informed the matter to Delhi Police IGP Robin Hibu, who is from north east, requesting him to talk to police authorities in Karnataka. Wangsu said that according to Bengaluru police, it was a case of assault and CCTV footages were being scanned.
 
 “The case has been prioritised by the police and a senior police officer visited the patient,” he added. “We have requested chief minister Pema Khandu to speak to Karnataka CM on the issue,” Wangsu said.
 
