BENGALURU:   was in the news recently for its decision to do a $3.4-billion share buyback, and to induct three new independent directors to the Board. Some saw it as a result of pressure from activist investor  . Malcolm Frank, executive vice president of strategy and marketing at Cognizant, talks about this and more in an interaction with TOI. Excerpts:

 
 
 
 We are going from an industrial economy to a digital economy and the technology that supports it is going through a fundamental shift. We proactively put together a strategy called Cognizant 2020. We spent pretty significant amount of time and effort, from the board to the senior leadership team, thinking through the services portfolio, the organizational and economic model that’s going to service the next leg of the journey – the next five years. We reworked our whole company around the digital business, and we were in the process of looking to a financial model on how we would build shareholder value when an activist stepped in and the press dialed it up. But we were pleasantly surprised that a lot of their ideas were similar to what we had already planned. I don’t envision any turmoil. We are actually looking at putting out heads down and focusing on execution.
 
 
 
 
 We have not called out any category of non-immigrant visas.
 
 
 
 
 We have looked at many scenarios and so many contingencies. We know what the margin impact would be, what the levers would be to try to mitigate that. To your questions, will it flow through to customers, I don’t know. We hired 4,000 people in the US and we are going to accelerate that number. We think it’s not important for legislative reasons; the real reason we are doing it is for the client needs. When they are going more digital, they need more local capabilities.
 
 
 
 
 This is such a cottage industry. In our category, Accenture still has about 2% of industry revenue, we have just over 1%. There is a lot of room for players in this sector. So there is room for more players as the digital pie will get larger. I do agree that it’s a curious thing that services firms for some weird reason can’t change and there is very high correlation between dominant hardware and software models and services models. In the mainframe era, CSC and EDS were leading providers. So it brings you to the question as to how the firms that had everything missed SAP. It seems crazy, but yet they did. Culture sometimes gets in the way. The firms that do well are change agents, are entrepreneurial, they are not too nostalgic about the past and they change quickly.
 
 
 
 
 In every industry, you have two or three gorillas that have the leadership, financial muscle, human muscle and relationships to do this. GE can do that. In financial services, the big money center banks can spend a lot on digital capabilities. But ask banks in Birmingham in England or Alabama as to how many data scientists they have or how many know machine learning, they start laughing. The answer is zero, and five years from now it will remain zero. Such companies entering the digital economy will have to leverage people like us.
 
