KOLKATA: More than 90% of   in Kolkata are not aware of the   and tend to believe that   -as portrayed in   on   -are the first symptoms of the terminal ailment.

 This has been revealed in an ongoing survey on cancer awareness being conducted by the Institute of Post-Graduate Medical Education and Research (IPGMER). The survey also shows that those suffering from cancer are actually far more aware of the initial signs of other life-threatening diseases like cardiac arrest, dengue, malaria and cerebral stroke.
 
 The study split 100 patients into two groups which included cancer patients and those suffering from ailments other than cancer. “Even though this is a sample survey, the results are shocking and indicative of the ground reality . It probably explains why cancer continues to be detected late and patients seek treatment in stages III and IV when treatment can't save lives. We must also consider whether the warning pictures on tobacco products are having the desired effect.Our survey suggests that they are actually misleading tobacco users and lulling them into a false sense of security ,“ said Diptendra Sarkar senior professor and head of the department of breast service at the IPGMER who led the survey .
 
 The same set of questions was given to both groups of patients. It included queries on the first signs of cancer, heart ailment, dengue, malaria and stroke and the steps that ought to be taken. It has emerged that most, including cancer patients, showed remarkable awareness about diseases like dengue and malaria. Diptendra Sarkar senior professor and head of the department of bre ast service at the IPGMER said, “Perhaps due to the repeated vector-borne disease outbreaks in recent years, the level of awareness was very good. Shockingly , cancer patients had very little knowledge about the disease they were suffering from. A significant percentage, in fact, felt that cancer was synonymous with tumors as depicted on cigarette, bidi and gutkha packets. This is dangerous and shows that few had awareness about the early signs and the need to consult a doctor at the initial stages.“
 
 Around 55% afflicted with the terminal ailment is diagnosed in the third or fourth stages of the illness and survive less than five years, according to data and case studies compiled by the IPGMER.Lack of awareness on the part of non-oncologists and faulty first-line treatment were as much responsible for higher mortality as ignorance on the part of patients, concluded experts.
 
 The survey result was indeed worrying, felt Tata Medical Centre oncologist and anti-cancer crusader Pankaj Chaturvedi. “It shows that West Bengal needs to step up its awareness campaign and rethink strategy . If the warning pictures are not conveying the right message then we should alter the thrust of the campaign. The idea is to ensure that at least those suffering from the three preventable forms of cancer ­ breast, cervical and mouth ­ recognize the early signs and seek treatment,“ said Chaturvedi.
 
 Oncologist Subir Ganguly agreed. “The stress should definitely be on the early symptoms. Scary picture warnings will not improve the survival rate or prevent cancer,“ Ganguly said.
 
 The IPGMER is planning to write to the state health ministry asking it to include at least one early symptom of cancer with warning pictures and messages. “ A white patch in the mouth, for instance, is a common early sign of oral cancer. It must be mentioned in warnings,“ said Sarkar.
 
 
