THIRUVANANTHAPURAM:   general secretary   alleged that through demonetisation, PM Narendra Modi helped the hoarders of black money to exchange it as white money. Inaugurating the public meeting organized as part of CPM central committee (CC) meeting, Yechury said he was afraid notes worth more than those demonetised have reached the banks by the end of December.

 Expressing serious reservations about the claim by BJP that demonetisation has achieved the desired result and helped to put an end to black money menace, Yechury asked the government why there was a delay in lifting the restrictions on withdrawals. “Earlier, Modi had said 90% of black money was overseas. There was no attempt to seize that money. Then, how can they claim victory against black money,” he asked.
 
 Speaking at the convention, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan slammed the move by some quarters to describe the LDF government as ‘anti-Muslim’. He said the government was particular against allowing curriculum that promote religious conversions in school and said such actions were used by vested interest groups to allege that his government was anti-Muslim. Vijayan assured that no Muslim would have to face any harassment under LDF rule.
 
 The meeting at Putharikandam ground was attended by thousands of CPM workers and sympathisers. Other PB members and CPM state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan also addressed the gathering. Though only PB members were invited for the meeting initially, veteran leader V S   was invited at the last moment. VS was received with thunderous applause and sloganeering by the crowd.
 
 Sources said the presence of VS in the meeting was a clear signal that the CC wouldn’t press for serious disciplinary action against him on Sunday when it takes up the PB commission report on inner party issues in Kerala as the last item on agenda. It is learnt that Yechury had consultations with VS on Friday and Saturday and the veteran once again raised his demand for inclusion in the state secretariat.
 
 The discussion on organizational issues will also decide the CC’s approach towards the nepotism row involving E P Jayarajan and P K Sreemathy. VS’s letter seeking the removal of MM Mani from the cabinet will also come up for debate if anyone raises the issue during discussions. On Saturday, the CC discussed a resolution on the crisis in agri sector caused by bad weather and worsened by wrong economic policies of the Centre.
 
