BENGALURU: It was a gripping tale of two gritty men. One, a 19-year-old stinging from a personal loss, the other a 32-year-old underachiever who gave it his all in the 55 minutes he spent on the crease. On a muggy night at the M Chinnaswamy stadium as top stars from   Bangalore and Delhi Daredevils came a cropper with the bat, RCB's   (69, 37b, 5x4, 5x6) and young Delhi batsman   played defining innings, under different yet testing circumstances.

 In the end, Jadhav's runs and  's bowling strategies saw them through for their first win of the season.
 
 With Delhi needing 19 runs for victory in the last over, Watson unleashed a masterstroke, bringing in   (2-3). Pant (57, 36b, 3x4, 4x6) was bowled off the first ball and his exit ended Delhi's homes as they fell short by 15 runs. The home team's highly priced bowling attack came to the party when most needed as Watson set the tone for the win in the death, bowling the 17th and 19th over which cost a mere seven runs. Chasing RCB's modest target of 1578, Delhi finished with 1429.
 
 Earlier, Jadhav walked the ring of fire without flinching. Even as the explosive RCB batsmen were silenced early, the 32-year-old scored a face-saving 37ball 69 to take the home side past the 150-mark. The diminutive middleorder batsman stood up for the count admirably during his 55 minutes stay at the crease.
 
 On a wicket which looked good to bat on, Watson decided to face the Zaheer Khan-led attack. Watson (23, 24b, 5x4) even promoted himself and opened the innings with Chris Gayle (6, 8b, 1x4) but he could do little to salvage the scoreline.
 
 Gayle, who was to shoulder the batting in the absence of Virat Kohli and AB de Villiers, was troubled by Zaheer's (2-31) full toss from the opening ball and was the first to go. Chris Morris (321) hurled one full on the length at Gayle who skied it only for a watchful Sanju Samson to track it from mid-on and latch on to it. That started the procession of RCB wickets as most of them fell trying to attempt stylish and spunky shots, which lacked application.
 
 Delhi thrived on an inspired show of captaincy from Zaheer Khan who weighed in with his craft and experience. Morris and Pat Cummins bowled a sharp line and length, but the standout performer of the day was Shahbaz Nadeem.
 
 The 27-year-old left arm spinner was miserly (1 13) to say the least.
 
 RCB made four changes in the team, dropping birthday boy Sreenath Arvind,  , Sachin Baby and Travis Head to bring in debutant Vishnu Vinod, Stanlake, Abdullah and Negi. 
 
 
