At 46,   has broken every cliché that showcases people with physical disability, wallowing in self-pity. This wheelchair-bound power-puff girl from Gurgaon, who has made history as the first Indian woman to win a medal at 2016   in the shot put event, dresses up as a diva, vrooms around on bikes, swims across rivers – in short, cocks a snook at every rule in the book. And if you are looking for a sob story in her life journey, you are at the wrong place…

  
 Ask this Padma awardee if she would change any aspect of her life, given half a chance, and she is quick to reply, "For me to change anything in my life, would mean changing several firsts in my journey. And these firsts have certainly come along with so many challenges. I didn’t have any footprints to follow, no role models to look up to and no signboards on the path. So, I would rather not change anything about this interesting voyage."
 
  Deepa, who has undergone multiple surgeries and has a delicate health condition, explains how she always remains happy and positive. "I was very sure about one thing – I didn’t want to be remembered as a paralysed woman. I wanted my children to look up to me and not really see me in the vision of the stereotypical image created by people. It was also about breaking social taboos for many others like me. Others look at you, the way you look at yourself. So, I don’t count physical disability as a limitation," says she.
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 Looking back at her journey,   deftly steers the conversation around her husband, Bikram. Her voice has that extra lilt as she says, "Bikram has played a very subtle yet important role in my life; he never made me feel that I'm paralysed. Rio was the first place where he was with me when I was fighting for the 18th medal of my life. But this faith that he communicates that 'If Deepa wants to do it, she can', has paid dividends. I was quite upset when I moved to Delhi as he had not even asked me about my accommodation or my house help. When I confronted him, he said, 'Do you want me to treat you as an able bodied person or a paralysed woman? Take your pick! When you are an independent woman, why should I babysit you?' Once a friend of mine said — 'How does your husband allow you to do all these things?' That is the time I realised that I have never asked for permission, I have always shared things with my husband, because he is with me all the way. How many men can do that?"
 
  
 To all those women who are still bound by several conditions and to those who impose them, the Olympian medallist says, "Let women fly. I would also appeal to the women to be worthy of these opportunities. Educate yourself, inculcate a hobby and hone your potential. When you are passionate about something, the whole universe comes together to help. It all starts with faith in yourself and your determination. No conditions apply when it comes to achieving your dreams."
 
 
