 is among the few actresses who is known to speak her mind. No wonder it came as a surprise to us when we heard rumours of her being married for a good year-and-a-half to boyfriend   (Tony), a British national. When we asked the outspoken actress about this, well, she did not deny it. So, what prompted her to keep her marital status a secret? Over to Narayani...

 
 
 Tony is media-shy. Honestly, both of us didn’t want to get married. We actually got married because one day we were wondering ‘Why don’t we want to tie the knot, given that the two of us want to be together always?’ It was rather strange. This thought came to us one day and we called the registrar the next day. I was dressed in jeans and a T-shirt and had only my mother and a few close friends at the wedding. We did not want to blow it out of proportion. Tony and I needed some time to get comfortable with the idea of being married and now, we are comfortable with the thought. 
 
 
 
 Very few. It’s not that I would deny it if somebody asked me; I hadn’t committed a crime! It’s just that I wouldn’t go to anyone and say, ‘Hey, I got married.’ 
 
 
 
 Not at all. I am very pro-commitment. But that’s what my point has always been. If there is a commitment from the heart, why do you need it on paper? What is marriage? You commit to taking care of the person and living with them through thick and thin. No paper can force one to do that. In fact, I would never want to be with a person if the love is lost. So, I remember the day when Tony and I were having this conversation and we said to each other that we are certain we want to be together, then why unnecessarily rebel against marriage. We are anyway not against the idea. 
 
 
 
 I have a huge family. We are five sisters, one brother and I have 12 nieces and nephews. All of them tell me that they still feel I am not married and they want a proper wedding! The day Tony and I feel we should have a party, we will. 
 
 
 
 No. I feel the same and do the same things that I used to do before. 
 
 
 
 He doesn’t miss London and is very happy in Mumbai. He has been in India for the past eight years and he loves the people here. I met him much later; we have been together for only five years now. I met him through my best friend. Tony loves his work — he is a creative director with a company. Basically, he is an artist and if you see his paintings, you’ll be amazed. They are not like paintings, they look like photographs!
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
