NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court asked the Centre on Monday to respond to a PIL seeking creation of a ‘unified authority’ to take urgent steps to free more than 14,000 acres of   which has been encroached upon and is being commercially exploited by the  .

 A bench headed by Chief Justice   issued notice on a petition filed by advocate S N Bharadwaj after senior counsel Rakesh K Khanna cited a   report to Parliament, which revealed that the extent of encroached defence land had increased from 6,903 acres in 1997 to 14,539 acres in 2009.
 
 The report said, “The committee are deeply dismayed to note the unabated encroachments on defence land despite repeated wake up calls given by the constitutional auditor (Comptroller and Auditor General). Worse, non-mutation of land records and non-utilisation of vast tracts of defence land only encouraged encroachment of defence land which has increased from 6,903 acres in January 1997 to 14,539 acres in July 2009.”
 
 The PAC also said existence of multiple authorities like directorate general of defence estates (DGDE) and local military authorities (LMAs) that look after management of defence lands have only exacerbated the situation for want of clear demarcation of responsibility. 
 
 The committee’s December 31, 2013 report to Parliament recommended “creation of a single unified authority, which shall look into the management and protection of defence lands, fast-track recovery of the encroached lands and shall also be responsible for monitoring and supervision of all field offices entrusted with the responsibility to manage defence lands and properties”.
 
 The bench took note of this recommendation and sought the government’s response. Interestingly, the SC had issued notice to the Centre on May 24, 2014 on a PIL filed by NGO ‘Common Cause’, which had sought a CBI probe into alleged encroachments and misuse of defence land because of alleged involvement of certain DGDE and LMA level officers.
 
 The NGO, through lawyer Prashant Bhushan, had cited a report by the CAG on encroachment of defence land and had sought a comprehensive audit of such land to pinpoint encroachments. The NGO had said the defence establishment was the biggest land holder in the country with 17.31 lakh acres in its kitty. Of this, less than 2 lakh acres were within the 62 notified cantonment areas while over 15 lakh acres fell outside cantonment boundaries, it had said.
 
 
