AURANGABAD: The Aurangabad rural police teams are headed to Thane to seize the video footage of the entire recruitment process, in which, suspects allegedly   and appeared for the physical and   

 Last week, the Aurangabad police arrested five men while unearthing a police recruitment scam being operated from the remote Kadrabad village here. Police said one of the five arrested was a candidate, the other four are suspected of involvement in similar police and government recruitment rackets across the state.
 
 Police claimed that the suspects impersonating the candidates not only appeared for the physical tests and cleared them but also appeared for the written tests and leaked out the question paper using WhatsApp. Their accomplices would send the answers of the questions over a sophisticated one-way communication device.
 
 Aurangabad rural superintendent of police Arti Singh said, “Our teams have reached Thane city to collect the video footage of the recruitment drive carried out earlier this month.”
 
 She expressed her surprise over the manner the suspects managed to breach the foolproof arrangements made for the recruitment drive. “Primary inspection of the videos have shown that the suspects easily slipped in for the physical tests as well as the written tests,” she said. 
 
 The arrested accused have been identified as Jhanak Chainsingh Charande, Wahab Nawab Shaikh and Raju Bhimrao Nagre, all residents of village Kadrabad, Datta Kaduba Nalawde of Bhalgaon in the district. The police also arrested one of the candidates identified as Tejrao Bajirao Sable, while  , another candidate, both residents of Kadrabad village in the district.
 
 The probe revealed that two suspects would impersonate as the candidate for the physical examinations and they would crack the physical fitness test with a score of over 90 out of the 100 marks physical examination.
 
 While the two other suspects would use sophisticated communication devices, obtained from Delhi-based Gaffar Market, to crack the written exams. The probe has found that the accused would send the snapshot of the question paper to their accomplices using a high-end Iphone, which they would sneak in the examination hall. Then, they would scan the internet to find the answers and dictate the replies to the suspects appearing for the written examination.
 
 Two suspects, who are good in cracking physical tests, would charge Rs 2 lakh for impersonating the candidate and scoring 90 and above marks in the physical tests carried out during police recruitment. The other two members of the racket, who are good with the written exams, would charge Rs 4.5 lakh for impersonating the candidate and clearing the written exams.
 
