VARANASI: In the densely populated areas where a large number of slum dwellers use open areas as toilets,   (VMC) is chalking out an action plan to make PM's parliamentary constituency open defecation free (ODF) by the end of the year. 

 The   has outlined an action plan for three months starting from April for making as many as 10 selected wards in each of the  . Sanitary inspectors have also been appointed for each zone and the target for making it ODF has been set as 25th of every month. There are 90 wards in the city.
 
 Talking to TOI on Thursday, Varanasi Health Corporation (VMC) health officer   said that the teams under the supervision of sanitary inspectors, began the survey in the first 10 wards in Bhelupur and Dashaswamedh zones from April 1. The wards to be made ODF by April 25 are Bhaidaini, Shivala, Rewari Talab, Bagahara, Tilbhandeshwar, Ramapura, Dashaswamedh, Bangali Tola, Madanpura and Jangambadi.
 
 For May and June, 20 wards each in Dashaswamedh, Kotwali and Adampur zones have been selected. These include Pandariba, Piyari Kala, Hadaha, Ganawasi Tola, Beniya, Kameshwar Mahadev, Gola Dinananth, Kathuapura, Baluaveer, Daranagar till May while Kajisadullapura, Jamaluddinpura, Basania, Kamalpura, Kamalgarha, Katehar, Bandhukacchibagh, Raj Mandir, Madhyameshwar and Kaal Bhairav is to be covered by June end. The corporation is constructing toilets wherever required and is hopeful to make all the 90 wards ODF by December-end.
 
 Awareness campaigns have also been started in several urban areas as a part of which teams are briefing people about contamination from open defecation and its effects. The teams are also spreading awareness on open defecation while survey on availability of toilets is also on. The people are also being apprised of government schemes under which individual toilets can be constructed at homes, said Dubey, adding that at places with space constraints, community toilets are being built. 
 
 Meanwhile, VMC officials have put up placards displaying 'Appeal' sign, exhorting people to keep the premises clean. In its appeal, the corporation has shunned people from smoking, chewing pan masala and gutkha, sticking notices or posters. In case of violation, Rs 100 will be charged as fine.
 
