CHANDIGARH: A man who spent around two years in Chandigarh's   as an   and a convict, has alleged in a public interest litigation (PIL) before the Punjab and   that drugs of all sorts are freely being supplied to the jail's inmates. He has also alleged that the   is part of the racket.

  alias Rocky has claimed in the PIL that he was shocked to find that “a few of the convicts who enjoy the patronage of jail authorities freely receiving drugs from outside and then selling them to other jail inmates at exorbitant prices“.
 
 The PIL goes to the extent of alleging that Burail jail is called 'modern jail' and is supposed to be `sudhar ghar', when it is in fact a university for criminals. The men come with the knowledge of a primary student but leave with a postgraduate degree in crime, the PIL claims.
 
 The PIL alleges, “There is large scale of supply of drugs including Chitta (synthetic drugs), smack, bidis and capsules inside Burail jail. This all is happening within the knowledge of jail administration and rather they are handin-glove with such convicts who deal in drugs in jail. The drugs are being sold at exorbitant rates inside jail.“ The PIL, which is expected to come up for hearing soon, has asked for a special investigation team (SIT) to look into the claims. The petitioner has also sought security alleging that that he is receiving threats after having unearthed the scam.
 
 The counsel for the petitioner, Navjit Brar, has mentioned that Rocky can name the convicts who are regularly getting drug supply .
 
 The petition goes on to add: “That the drugs could be easily bought by any jail inmate at exorbitant price. Chitta is available for Rs 15,000 per gram as against Rs 5,000 outside. Smack is available for Rs 10,000 per gram as against Rs 3,000 outside. Bidi bundle could be bought at price of Rs 150, tobacco could be bought at Rs 500 as against Rs 15 to Rs 20 outside.“
 
 Rocky has also accused the Burail jail doctors of cor ruption. He has alleged that the doctors gave cheap tablets for different ailments but list ed the costliest medicine in the register. It was also allege that lot of convicts “enjoy hospital life, parole and rest at the instance of doctors' advice.
 
