HYDERABAD: Infrastructure of the   will soon get a makeover with the administration deciding to appoint architectural consultants for preparing a master plan for the 100-year-old varsity.

 The university invited architectural firms to survey the campus and prepare a detailed project report. On its priority list are hostels, administrative building and others that need immediate attention. “The consultants will prepare a digitalised map which will help us identify our expansion avenues in future. 
 
 We intend to construct six new hostels, a new administrative building and convention hall on a priority basis based on the report,“ said S Ramachandram, OU vice-chancellor.
 
 The university plans to have a com pelling model in place for future communities. For this, the administration aims to convert the university as a sustainable campus with environment-friendly waste-water system, soiled waste management facility and solar panels and other renewable energy.
 
 “The final goal is to have a campus that is net zero waste, net zero energy and net zero water, thus reaching full, range self-sufficiency at the end of the project period, if possible to have as surplus energy and water to help the adjoiningneighbourhood areas,“ reads the expression of interest document issued by the university recently.
 
 The university also plans to crack down on encroachers within campus. The survey and detailed project report shall indicate the locations of campus with encroachments. “There are various areas which are encroached on campus. Once they are identified, we will be in a position to chalk out our future plan of action,“ said Ramachandram.
 
 The appointed architectural firm will outline the master plan for the university to install various utilities such as electrical works, plumbing, water and sewage treatment plant, fire detection and equipment, solar water heating system, rain water harvesting etc.
 
 “The infrastructure, facilities and buildings should be functional and also have a built-in flexibility to accommodate the foreseeable future technical advances,“ reads the document.
 
 Once the firm prepares the detailed report, it will be submitted to   government for release of grants.
 
