Within a fort night of a rail rod being placed on a train track in Diva in a suspected sabotage attempt, a similar incident has occurred in Kalamboli. A 1.5metre piece of rail was placed on a track in the Navi Mumbai node on Monday night. The motorman of the Pune-Santragachi Express, which was coming from Pune, did not notice the metal bar in the dark, and the locomotive hit it.

 The bar got stuck to the train's cowcatcher (the iron mesh in front) and got dragged for about 50 metres. A screeching sound made the motorman hit the brakes. After the train stopped, the motorman and his assistants removed the rail. Experts said everyone on the train was fortunate that a major disaster was averted as there was no derailment.
 
 The police are investigating all possible angles, including sabotage. An FIR has been registered at the Kalamboli police station against unknown persons (see graphic).
 
 Central Railway's senior divisional security commissioner Sachin Balode said, “The   has enhanced patrolling along railway tracks to prevent a repeat.“
 
 ACP (Panvel) Prakash Nilewad said, “Pieces of rail are dumped along tracks and one was picked up by miscreants and kept on the track 1.5km from Kalamboli station.“
 
 Meanwhile, the GRP , probing the January 24 Diva case, has questioned over 150 people, including several disgruntled railway employees, history sheeters and fishermen, and is yet to ascertain who kept a 7metre rail road on a track there. When the   collected fingerprints, it found that the evidence had been contaminated as it contained fingerprints of the people who helped remove the rail from the track to make way for the train to pass. Last November, 150 people were killed when 14 coaches of the Indore-Patna Express rolled off track around 100km from Kanpur, UP.
 
 The role of Pakistan's ISI and Dubai-based anti-India elements was suspected. Later, two WhatsApp audio clips were recovered from an accused, in which two suspects could be heard dis cussing a plan to derail the train On December 28, over 40 people were injured as 15 coaches of the   derailed near Kanpur. The train was crossing a bridge over a dry canal, nearly 70km from the city; two coaches toppled off the bridge and fell into the canal bed. Sabotage by a foreign hand was suspected.
 
 
 
 
 The motormen who have averted major tragedies which could have occurred in this fashion must be appreciated and their diligence rewarded. Railway authorities must also always be on the alert as the Bihar and Uttar Pradesh accidents are already said by the intelligence agencies to have been the handiwork of elements inimical to India's interests. Foolproof security along the nation's massive rail network may be virtually impossible, but eternal vigilance is the only option.
 
 
