MUMBAI: The government may have gone on an overdrive to fix Mumbai’s long-nagging   issues in the wake of the   but several companies have already put in place measures to ensure that their staff reaches   safely and in time. 

 Companies across industries pick and drop their employees so that they can avoid the everyday ordeal of travelling in overcrowded trains and BEST buses. Some of them also offer shuttle services from the nearest stations so that the staff does not have to wait for cabs or autos, which are difficult to find during peak hours, to cover the short distance. On an average, Mumbaikars spend at least two hours on commuting to and from work. Overcrowding, delays and traffic worsen the travel.
 
 Tata Motors, Bayer, Larsen & Toubro and Essar are some of the Indian and multinational companies that have hired private transporters to fetch their employees from designated, high-traffic pick-up points across the city. Standard Chartered Bank and K Raheja Corp, among others, provide shuttle services. The employees are also dropped back after work.. 
 
 “These services are offered in view of the traffic conditions and absence of suitable connectivity with public transport hubs,” said William Paul, head-HR of Standard Chartered Bank. 
 
 Urvi Aradhya, chief HR officer of K Raheja Group, which owns the Shoppers Stop chain, Inorbit mall and Renaissance hotel, said, “The bus shuttle service from our office at BKC to Bandra and Kurla stations serve excellently for employees who would otherwise struggle to get autos and cabs, which are far fewer than the demand. The service is an initiative to ease their stress.”
 
 The changing business landscape of the city is also another reason that has prompted companies to offer these services. For instance, many software services and BPO firms have set up operations in Vikhroli, Malad and other suburban areas, where finding a mode of tranport to reach offices is a trial. Likewise, some banks and financial institutions, although they have their corporate office in south Mumbai or BKC, have moved other functions like HR to suburbs such as Goregaon, Kanjurmarg and Thane. 
 
 Larsen & Toubro, the country’s largest engineering and construction company, runs buses from various locations in the city to pick up its employees to its Powai campus and to drop them back. The Powai complex houses 6,000 employees. 
 
 The diversified power-to-port enterprise Essar Group also offers transport services to employees to and from its HQ in Mahalaxmi and other offices in BKC. 
 
 Tata Motors, which in April brought its entire sales and marketing team under a single roof at Ahura Centre in Andheri, too offers private transport. About 430 people function from the Ahura Centre and at least half of them use this service. The automaker also has an arrangement with homegrown ride-sharing app Ola through which its employees can book a ride to a common destination. Standard Chartered Bank offers ladies special bus service to staff who may be delayed at work. 
 
 Through all these ways, companies have moved passengers away from local trains and buses, easing the burden on public transport. It also helps employees save on travel expenses and not go through the stress of dealing with the city’s crumbling transit system, while ensuring punctuality. 
 
 “We believe taking care of our staff and consider all possible initiatives to ensure comfortable, safe and secure work experience,” said Paul of Standard Chartered Bank 
 
 
