NEW DELHI: The passengers on-board   G8 557, bound for Bengaluru, had a harrowing time on Wednesday evening after one of its engines caught fire. There were panic and screams for help soon after flames were first spotted on the left side of the aircraft.

 According to Saurabh Tandon, one of the passengers, told TOI, “The flight took off and within minutes, I heard people shouting, 'Fire, fire'. I turned to my left (he was sitting on the right side) and looked over my shoulder. I could see a fire.It was very scary situation.“
 
 Tandon claimed he saw the fire lasting for about 30 seconds, and then it was “miraculously“ put off. “The pilot must have shut down the left engine. Then, we landed safely (on one engine) in approximately 20 minutes. The pilot emerged a hero for his presence of mind and timely action.However, I could easily sense the nervousness in his voice even after landing,“ he added.
 
 Another passenger, Delhi based IT professional Vaibhav Sabharwal, described it as an “nerve-racking experi ence“. “When you are 3,000 feet in the air and an engine bursts into flame, you really cannot do much. Panic set in immediately and people were screaming and shouting. The flames went down after one of the engines was presumably be shut down. An airhostess announced that an emergency landing was going to happen and that everyone should remain seated,“ he said. Sabharwal maintained that it was the cabin crew who handled the situation very well.
 
 Meanwhile, three eyewit nesses informed the police control room after spotting fire and smoke on the plane when it was flying over Ghoyla near Dwarka. “I am accustomed to flight taking off over our house daily and can make out the size of an aircraft from the noise it makes. On Wednesday evening, I had gone to shop nearby with my friend when we spotted this plane.There was an unusual noise and one of the engines was clearly up in flames,“ said Devanjan Mandal, a second year biochemistry student at a DU college, who lives in Dwarka Sector 19. “I first alerted the PCR and then dialled a helpline number, which I found on the DGCA website. They were very prompt in their response.“
 
 Mohammad Salim, who works at a dairy at Ghoyla village, said that the plane's engine was glowing. “I called the police and alerted other villagers. We feared that the plane might crash-land in the agricultural fields. Then then police called back and I narrated them the sequence of events,“ he added.
 
