NAGPUR: Led by maverick independent MLA Bacchu Kadu of Amravati, hundreds of whip wielding farmers of Vidarbha on Tuesday embarked an ‘Aasood Yatra’. Starting from chief minister Devendra Fadnavis’ hometown, the march is to culminate at Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s birth place of   on April 21.

 ‘Aasood’ in Marathi means whip. Social reformer Jyotiba Phule in his novel ‘Shetkaricha Aasood’ had written that a farmer should use the whip not only on the bullocks he mends but also on the oppressors. “Motivated by that thought, I want to mobilize farmers to rise for their rights of a respectable life,” Kadu told TOI at MLAs Hostels where a large number of his supporters gathered for the onward march.
 
 “Some 50 groups like   and activists from all over the country will be joining us in the yatra. The objective is to draw the present government’s attention towards plight of farmers forced to live in abject poverty because of wrong agriculture policies,” Kadu added.
 
 “We will crack the whip against the government to remind   that he has failed to fulfil electoral promise of implementing M S   Commission’s recommendation on fixing crop prices to input costs and 50% of profit. We want curbs on exports of cotton, tur to go so that farmers can benefit. When there are no such restrictions on Ramdeobaba’s products, why impose them on poor farmers,’ asked Kadu.
 
 Interestingly, he agrees that farm loan waiver is not a lasting solution to the suicide crisis and that the ‘Sanghrash Yatra’ taken out by the Congress-NCP was nothing but a political stunt. “These parties were in power when Swaminathan submitted his report in 2006. But they did not implement it. Now out of power they are shedding crocodile tears for farmers,” Kadu pointed out. “The government without batting an eyelid gives 7th pay commission to its staff. But even after 3.5 lakh farmers committed suicide, they do not want to find permanent solution to agriculture crisis or invest adequately for the cause,” Kadu said.
 
 The yatra will cross Nagpur and Wardha districts on Tuesday. On April 12 it will traverse through Yavatmal and Nanded. On April 13 it will cover Latur, Osmanabad, Solapur and later via Sangli, Satara, Kolhapur, Pune, Ahmednagar, Aurangabad, Nashik, Dhule, Nandurbar to reach Wadnagar via Ahmedabad.
 
 “At PM’s hometown, around 1,000 farmers will donate blood. This will be our message to Modi that we are willing to give our blood if he spares us our lives,” remarked Kadu.
 
