Amritsar/Bathinda: Hopes of hundreds of students aspiring to join MBBS and BDS courses after cracking the NEET have run into rough weather after the declaration of a new merit list. Hassled parents of the candidates have filed a writ petition in the Punjab and Haryana high court in this regard.

 After the result of NEET was announced on June 23, it constituted the central merit list on the basis of online counselling under the AIQ category for 15%. The state counselling started for the allotment of the 85% seats, for which the Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS) released the first merit list on June 29. But on June 30, the BFUHS released another notice, asking all candidates to mark some other state despite being bona fide residents of Punjab, said a parent.
 
 It is being alleged that outsiders were accommodated during the counselling procedure by the BFUHS. “Unsuspecting Punjabi candidates went about their counselling procedure without paying much attention to the notice,” said Ravinder Singh, father of another candidate. However on July 16, a new merit list was declared, which surprised all since it had lowered the ranks of candidates. 
 
 The merit list displayed by the university on its website on June 29 was meant for the candidates who had cracked NEET 2017 and opted for Punjab as their appearing state. The notice issued on June 30 states, “Some candidates have marked some other state while filling registration form of NEET. Hence, it is clarified that candidates who are bona fide residents of Punjab can still apply to the BFUHS through online portal in the 85% category.”
 
 There is tremendous confusio among bonafide students who could be deprived of the admission under the state quota due to the BFUHS decision. 
 
 Punjab has eight medical and 16 dental colleges, which have a combined strength of 2,300 seats. BFUHS controls the admission process for all seats in MBBS and BDS courses in Punjab. One parent Charanjit Chopra from Patiala said, “Many students from Punjab were sure of getting admission in colleges in the state. It is sheer injustice with students of Punjab as the university is giving rights to get admission to students from other states out of state quota of 85%.
 
 BFUHS in-charge of admissions Dr Arvind Sharma said, “We had put up the merit list on June 29 for complete transparency about the students qualifying for NEET from Punjab. The university has to accommodate students from outside who have done classes XI and XII from Punjab but have appeared in the test from any other state. But this does not mean that a permanent resident of Punjab who has done Class XII from the state but appeared from outside is not eligible for admission under the 85% quota.”
 
 
