NAGPUR: Mahatma Gandhi has made several references to Shrimad Rajchandra in his autobiography ‘The Story of My Experiments with Truth’ and has called him a ‘refuge.’ Play ‘Yugpurush — Mahatma Ke Mahatma’ attempts to showcase Gandhi’s bonding with his spiritual guru and his journey from being Mohandas to Mahatma. Hindi adaptation of the original Gujarati production was staged at Dr   on Tuesday evening.

 The play begins with Gandhi reaching his ashram after being discouraged by volunteers to attend a prayer service for security reasons. “Body is temporal but God is forever,” replies Gandhi, enacted by Darshan Mahajan. On insistence of followers, Gandhi narrates his spiritual journey from being Mohan to Mahatma. “I’ve met many spiritual gurus. But Ramchandraji’s statements touch my heart,” he adds. His charkha and a cushioned seat are the only props on stage, and the backdrop is the doorway of the ashram.
 
 Scene two: A young Gandhi, from his days as a barrister from England, comes on stage, played by Indrajeet Soni. From this moment onward, past and the present are juxtaposed on the stage. The narrative is smooth and the elaborate backdrops keep changing with a single slide, without needing to draw curtains or creating a blackout. Ramchandra’s character as a poet and trader is drawn out, enacted by  . It shows a calm man who can perform 100 tasks at the same time, who can remember fifty words at one go and is a humanitarian at heart. Gandhi continues correspondence with him after leaving Mumbai.
 
 The play asks several questions — can religion and trade go hand in hand? Is religion practised only on certain days? Why are there so many religions? Is shatavdhan, being attentive to 100 things at once, possible? The play shows the young and old Mahatma coming together to share the story of his guru; in one scene, under the same spotlight.
 
 The depiction of all characters is brilliant, but one wonders if what is depicted about Rajchandra is factual or a mechanism of glorifying the spiritual guru. The play has its moments of comedy. But some bits appear preachy, like a lot of information waiting to be unleashed on the audience. Written by Uttam Gada, the play is directed by  , who has refined the narrative into a smooth and flowing bouquet of scenes. The music, composed by Sachin-Jigar, is intriguing and engaging.
 
 The play, staged by Shrimad Rajchandra Mission, Dharampur, has completed 240 shows and been showcased in over 65 cities. This initiative aims to support the construction of a new multi-speciality charity hospital in south Gujarat. Three shows of the play will be held on March 15 at 1pm, 4pm and 8pm at Dr Vasantrao Deshpande Hall. 
 
 
