Kolkata: The London attack left scores of Kolkatans studying or working there shocked and shaken. Few had ever experienced an emergency like the one on Wednesday, but felt London had it in her to put the nightmare behind.

 Ashish Ranjan, an executive in an MNC, was alarmed when he heard about the attack right next to his daughter’s school. “It was a great relief to know that she was unharmed. But then we had to figure out how we could get home as the entire precinct had been shut down.” 
 
 The journey home required a long detour and snarls as all traffic passing through Westminster had been diverted. There were policemen posted at various intersections along the way to reassure Londoners that streets were safe. On his way to office on Thursday, he encountered more policemen on the streets, ready to combat any threat. 
 
 “I think overall we are quite unfazed by this incident and have taken it in our stride. Perhaps this is similar to other folks living in other global cities that are subject to terrorist threats. We know we can’t change our lifestyle to avoid such occurrences and hence prefer to get on with life as normal and hope and pray for the best. And yes, we are back in offices and schools in London on Thursday because we do not want to live our lives in a different way,” Ranjan said.
 
 Tapas Ranjan Dutta, a doctor settled in London for the last 21 years, feared for his son-in-law, a medic serving at a hospital next to Westminster. “I frantically called him and fortunately, he was safe. In fact, he was then treating the attack victims,” said Dutta. 
 
 Darshana Purkayastha, an IT professional currently in the UK on vacation, was at Harrods when the incident happened on Wednesday afternoon. “I had walked the stretch of Westminster and London Eye just 30 minutes before the incident. When I got the information, panic had already started spreading about the tube being closed and people started scurrying to the safety of their homes and hotels.” 
 
 Purkayastha was supposed to travel to Newbury from London by the evening train. But with trains being cancelled after the incident, she decided to take a bus to the friend’s place where she was staying. “There was panic all around with people from the world over calling up asking about the situation here. Normal life and plans for tourists were disrupted,” she said.
 
 Pallavi Kaul, who lives in London was struck by the calmness and professionalism of the emergency services. “The response of emergency services was reassuring. It makes one feel secure in exigencies like this. That is what makes Londoners feel safe and that is why we went about our lives as usual on Thursday,” said Kaul.
 
 
