PATNA: RJD MLA and Bihar disaster management minister Chandrashekhar’s description of CBI “as worse than dog” has drawn flak from ally JD (U) as well as BJP.   The JD (U) on Monday condemned the minister’s statement and urged him to exercise restraint. BJP demanded dismissal of the minister for using unparliamentary language against a government agency.    JD (U) spokesperson Rajeev Ranjan told TOI that people expected a dignified and disciplined conduct from politicians. “A politician can have reservation on an issue, but such a choice of words is inappropriate and condemnable,” he said.    Addressing RJD workers in Patna on Sunday, Chandrashekhar said, “Kisi ke liye ED nahi hai, kisi ke liye CBI nahi hai. Magar Lalu Prasad ke sampoorn parivar ko dafnane ke liye ED hai, CBI hai. BJP ke log UPA ke zamane mein kehte thein ki CBI tota hai sarkar ka. Abhi kya ho gaya hai? Tota nahi, abhi toh kutte ka haal bhi nahi hai (ED or CBI doesn’t act against others, but they go after the life of Lalu and his family. During the UPA’s tenure, BJP used to say CBI is a parrot, but now CBI’s condition is worse than that of a dog).”    Leader of opposition in legislative assembly Prem Kumar urged CM Nitish Kumar to take strict action against the minister. “It is disgraceful for a minister to use such an unparliamentary language against a government body. We urge the CM Nitish not only to dismiss Chandrashekhar from his cabinet but also initiate action against him,” Prem said, adding RJD ministers did not appear to be under Nitish’s control.    RJD too maintained its leaders should be careful in selection of words. “Though people in Bihar are angry over the misuse of CBI by BJP to target Lalu and his family, the party has always believed that we should exercise caution in our choice of words,” said RJD spokesperson Shakti Singh Yadav.    Chandrashekhar was obviously referring to the FIR lodged by CBI on July 5 in land-for- railways’-hotel case and subsequent raids against Lalu, his wife and former CM Rabri devi and their younger son and deputy CM tejashwi Prasad Yadav.