PATNA: The Patna   on Thursday granted bail to St Xavier’s High School teacher Indu Anand, who was arrested in connection with alleged sexual exploitation of a five-year-old girl inside the school premises in October last year.

 Victim’s counsel Yogesh Chandra Verma said the bench of Justice P K Jha granted bail to the accused as she was not named in victim’s statement recorded before the magistrate. “In her FIR, the victim’s mother had only accused Indu of turning a blind eye to sexual exploitation of her daughter by another school teacher Nutan Joseph,” Verma said. Earlier, the bench of Justice Sudhir Singh had on December 23 rejected the bail petition of Nutan and ordered trial in the case within nine months.
 
 Court questions continuance of college principal: Justice Ravi Ranjan of Patna high court on Thursday ordered issuance of notice to Babban Singh, principal of  , Arts and Science (formerly known as College of Commerce), Patna, asking him to explain as to why he should not be superannuated after reaching the age of 62, the retirement age prescribed for non-teaching employees of the universities of the state. Singh turned 62 in November last year. 
 
 Ashutosh Kumar Sinha and Arun Kumar Jha, associate professors of the physics department of the college, had earlier filed a writ petition challenging Singh’s continuance as principal despite having reached the age of superannuation.
 
 According to petitioner’s lawyer Navin Prasad Singh, the university counsel prayed for time to frame the university’s response. The court rejected the prayer. 
 
 The university lawyer then threw the ball in the state government’s court, saying that the state counsel would explain the 2012 amendment that delisted principal for the category of teachers.
 
 Ashutosh Pandey, who represented the state, told the court that the amended list of teaching posts does not include the post of principal. In the interest of justice, the judge ordered issuance of notice to Babban Singh, whose superannuation has been sought by the petitioner.
 
