Oh, what a pleasure it is to be a  ! Borrowing from Albert Einstein's description of Mahatma Gandhi, generations of the future would scarcely believe that traffic jams,  , scared pedestrians, gridlocks and frayed tempers once existed on the  . And we all have to thank   for the timely completion of its Phase-II.

 Before we dwell on the present, a walk down memory lane would hold us in good stead. The much sought-after destination that is Bengaluru was characterized by  . That was a time when people of this city dreaded the very thought of stepping out to its roads. That was also when Phases-II and -III of Namma Metro existed only in the discussion rooms of government offices and files.
 
 Buses, regular and airconditioned, began to run jam-packed and people sought refuge in cabs that could be hailed via mobile apps. Soon, the cabs too started running full, and worse, they were unable to find space on our roads. So choked were our roads that cars were running out of fuel even before they could make it to the nearest pump. The challenge then was to conserve the maximum fuel. Two-wheeler and four-wheeler showrooms began to refuse test drives, for fear of losing their vehicles. Drone deliveries became the norm -from milk, newspapers, groceries to pizzas.
 
 Commuters on the IT corridors began to age so rapidly , that their families failed to recognize them back home.This, in turn, spurred a hitherto unforeseen boom in the cosmetics industry. The role companies like L'Oréal and Lakme played in preventing internecine familial disputes began to be documented. To deal with the many uncertainties that such situations might pose, ambulances began to be equipped with operation theatres, schools and play area for kids. After all, life must go on for children, even if they were delivered in an ambulance held hostage to a  . Crime came to a standstill; so did policing. And then there was this global financial crisis that the roads of Bengaluru sparked. Every financial institution that had backed these cab-app companies started throwing in money just to keep them afloat. This was because the cost of maintaining the cabs had skyrocketed. It was only a matter of time before they too ran out of resources. These companies went bankrupt and thanks to their intricate links to the global financial system, bourses and currencies went into a tailspin. The US Dollar collapsed and recovered to stabilize at par with the Indian Rupee. The Euro crashed and had to be liquidated.
 
 India Inc wasn't spared.Promoters and CEOs of leading companies began to spar with one another, exchanging notes on how the better performer was the one who'd reach home first. The board of one conglomerate staged a coup and sacked its CEO because the executive sold some distressed assets even as its members were in transit to office.
 
 One factor united these problems: transportation.
 
 Just when it seemed that nothing could pull up Bengaluru's equity , along came Phase-II of Namma Metro, which was executed in the promised time period of three years. Many vital places of the city -the airport, Cantonment Railway Station, IIM-B, Electronics City , Nagawara, Silk Board junction, Marathalli, Kengeri -came up on its network and transportation became seamless.Suddenly, one could travel from one end of the city to another in a jiffy and not bother about age and finality. The vehicles began to clear up on the roads. Garden City became the Sane City. The beardwatching disappeared.The fifth metro became truly metropolitan. We owe Namma Metro our gratitude for tightly adhering to its schedules and laying out its new lines under Phase-II in three years flat.
 
