AHMEDABAD: People used to advise him to chose a job that a thalassemic person could do easily. But it was his disease – thalassemia major — that inspired him to become a doctor so that he could try to find a cure for the deadly condition. The 22-year-old Ahmedabad boy,  , has overcome all odds and passed the   exam on Tuesday with 65% marks. He lives in   area of the city.

 Rohan was born with thalassemia major to a doctor couple, Dr   and Dr Pravina Rajyaguru. Rohan was always good in studies and was ranked 66th in the state in class 12 board exams with 99.97 %. He achieved this feat despite the 350 ml blood transfusion he needs every fortnight to survive.
 
 “It was my disease that inspired me to become a doctor,” Rohan said. “I can then do research and perhaps find a   major. I will also start an organization to help thalassemia major patients.”
 
 He further said that due to blood transfusion, his body is often overloaded with iron. “To absorb this side-effect, I have to keep a needle inserted inside my abdomen for 18 hours,” Rohan said. This is necessary as the overload of iron may lead to heart or liver failure, he said.
 
 “People often advised me that I should not chose the medical profession but go for something else. But my parents were with me and helped me pursue my dream,” Rohan said.
 
 When asked how he battled the strain of the disease to master the massive MBBS course, he said he used to study for 14 to 16 hours. “Very frequently, I studied with a needle in my stomach. Considering my situation, my doctor fixed the blood transfusion time at 9 pm so that I would not miss on studies,” Rohan said.
 
 Rohan’s doctor, Dr  , is consultant physician and managing tustee of Thalessemia Jagruti Manch. He said that the life span of thalessemia major patients used to be between 15 to 20 years but due to advanced therapy which removes excess iron from the body , the life span of 50 years can easily be achieved. 
 
 “In the case of Rohan, he will live a normal life as his two main organs — liver and heart — are in good condition,” Khatri said. “He would be like any other doctor and serve society very well.”
 
