COIMBATORE: Two off-campuses of   - at   and Periyanaickenpalayam - are unapproved by the University Grants Commission, a response given by the UGC to a Right to Information application has revealed. This renders the courses offered at these centres unapproved and the degrees of the students passing out of these campuses invalid. The university, however, maintains that it has followed all the necessary procedures to run the two off-campuses.

 A few months ago, Karunya University started the two off-campuses. The Lakshmi Mills campus is a Karunya School of Management and offers management courses while the Periyanaickenpalayam campus offers nine undergraduate and two postgraduate courses.
 
 An RTI application filed by the president of association of self-financing arts, science and management colleges of Tamil Nadu sought answers to three questions from the apex regulatory body – the UGC (a copy of the RTI request and the response from the UGC is with TOI). The first question was: Did Karunya University get permission from the UGC to run campuses at Periyanaickenpalayam and Lakshmi Mills? The response from the UGC was ‘No’. The second question: As per the MHRD (ministry of human resource development) declaration, what is the status of the university (category A, B or C). The response given by the UGC was ‘B’. The last question in the RTI request: Does Karunya University have permission to run off-campuses in Coimbatore district other than Karunya Nagar granted by the UGC? The UGC has attached a set of regulations as its response.
 
 Registrar of Karunya University R Elijah Blessing said, “According to the UGC Regulations, 2010, and UGC Regulations 2016, we are allowed to run centres in the same district where we are headquartered. Both the campuses are thereby legal.” Blessing added, “We have intimated the UGC about the two centres and have received acknowledgement from the UGC too. We shall provide the copies of the same in two days.”
 
 Section 12 of the regulations provided by the UGC clearly explains the criteria for a university to be eligible to start off-campuses. Section 12.02 says a university that has been given the highest grade by the national assessment and accreditation council (NAAC), that is ‘A’ grade, or a university in which all the courses are awarded the highest grades by the national board of accreditation (NBA) is permitted to start off-campuses.
 
 Neither is Karunya rated highest by the NAAC nor are all of its courses given highest ratings by the NBA. According to the RTI response, Karunya is rated ‘B’ by NAAC.
 
 Vice-chancellor of Karunya University E J James clarified that the university has followed all the necessary procedures to run the two off-campuses. He said, “We had written to the UGC informing about the two off-campuses. And, all protocols have been followed.”
 
 A senior professor of a deemed to be university said that if the off-campuses are unapproved then it is a criminal offence. “The degrees offered are invalid and a criminal suit can be filed against the university for doing so,” said the professor. About two years ago, the Chennai campus of   (VIT) was found to be unapproved by the UGC, and it invited action from the   
 
