JAIPUR: At a time when the state is reeling under shortage of   (IPV), paediatricians have expressed their concern over children being exposed to   of polio.

 In the state, children are administered IPV for protection against Type 2 polio virus strain. Since there is a shortage of IPV, the health department can only administer oral polio vaccine (OPV) for Type 1 and Type 3 virus strains to children.
 
 But, the OPV available now is bivalent and cannot be used to vaccinate children against Type 2 virus strain.
 
 However, the health department claimed that Type 2 virus strain has already been eradicated from the country. But paediatricians believe that Type 2 strain still poses a big threat.
 
 “There is an IPV shortage in both private and government sectors in the state. All the newborn children are exposed to the threat of Type 2 virus strain. Although the polio virus strain has been eradicated as per WHO, it exists in the form of   (VDPP) and immune-compromised polio virus carriers,” Dr Tarun Patni, pediatrician and neonatologist, said.
 
 Patni, who is also state representative of the   (IPA), said that only IPV can give protection against Type 2 strain.
 
 “This means all newborns, who have not received IPV, are exposed to the risk of infection,” he said, adding that the government should make efforts to make IPV easily available for all three-and-a-half month old children.
 
 Rajasthan is crucial in the fight against polio as it shares the boundary with Pakistan where new cases of polio are still being reported. The country has not been declared free of polio as yet. “In areas near Pakistan border, isolated cases of polio have been reported recently. Our officials are administering OPV to 350 to 500 passengers who come to India from Pakistan by Thar Express every week,” Dr  , chief medical health officer, Barmer.
 
 But, Dr Bist said that this would offer protection against only Type 1 and Type 3 strains of polio.
 
 The health authorities claimed that they have alerted the Centre about IPV shortage. “There is a shortage of IPV. We are not receiving supplies from the Centre,” said Narottam Sharma, chief medical health officer (Jaipur).
 
