PUNE:   from   joined the week-long teachers’ strike on Friday, leading to heavy   being deployed at the school till 5pm.

 While the teachers are protesting against the non-payment of salaries for more than three months, parents said there was no transparency in fee collection and allegesd that the quality of teaching and infrastructure were poor. 
 
 A group of teachers have been protesting since March 4 by boycotting classes. They are expected to return to work on Saturday following the management’s promise that their pending salaries would be cleared by April 7.
 
 Nearly 25 police personnel were posted at the school on Friday to control the huge crowd gathered. 
 
 A parent whose son is in Class 7 said, “Teachers keep changing, so there is no continuity in what is being taught. The school had collected money for CCTVs and a school app. There are no CCTVs here and the app hardly functions right.”
 
 A teacher who has been working in the school since 2008 said, “Payment issues started three years ago. My salary for eight months is pending. They have now given us post-dated cheques and promised we will receive our money by April 7.”
 
 Non-teaching staff members also said they are affected. “We get Rs 5,500 per month. They haven’t paid our salary since November. In December, they gave us Rs 3,000 and day before yesterday, they gave us Rs 3,000,” said a non-teaching staff, adding that they’re paid in cash.
 
 Another parent whose son studies in Class 8 complained about the infrastructure. He said, “Desks are small. For a few months last year, there was no electricity and telephone lines were disconnected.”
 
 Management speaks
 
 Vinay Aranha, one of the owners of the Rosary group of schools, admitted that about two months’ teachers’ salary is pending even in other branches and blamed non-payment of fees by many students. “In this branch, a total of Rs 40 lakh is overdue as fee, of which we have to pay Rs 24 lakh as teachers’ salary.”
 
 Aranha said that in all branches put together, about Rs 2.4 crore is pending as fees from students. 
 
 He also assured parents and teachers that all their issues would be sorted out, and added that none of the schools would be shut down.
 
