CHENNAI: In a homicide that has shocked the police department, a constable late on Saturday stabbed to death a fellow-policeman in a feud over extramarital relationships a policewoman had with two members of the force while her Army-jawan husband was posted in Kashmir. 

 Police officers on Sunday arrested Amritharaj, an armed reserve constable from Chennai, for the murder of Sundarapandi, 24, of Usilamapatti, who was attached to   armed reserve police.
 
 They also booked Tiruvallur armed reserve policewoman Saranya, 23, for the murder but are yet to arrest her.
 
 Saranya had a relationship with Amritharaj and later started seeing a fellow-constable Kallanai in Tiruvallur. When Amritharaj and Kallanai learned that they were competing for Saranya's affections, the pair began a running feud.
 
 Saranya on Saturday dared Amritharaj to come to her house on   in Tiruvallur and meet Kallanai. The two men met each other to sort out the matter.
 
 "Sundarapandi accompanied his colleague Kallanai to protect him if, as they anticipated, things went amiss when they met Amritharaj," an investigating officer said. "With them were two other colleagues of Kallanai, Chandran, 24, and Santhanakumar, 23. They probably expected that it would come to a faceoff."
 
 "Amritharaj and Kallanai had an argument at Saranya's house when they met, around 11.30pm on Saturday, and Sundarapandi tried to intervene and calm tempers," officer said. "Amritharaj pulled out a knife and stabbed Sundarapandi, who collapsed and died."
 
 The   also registered a case against Kallanai, Chandran and Santhanakumar for trespassing and intimidation on a complaint by Saranya's sister Devi.
 
 "The sequence of events started on around 11pm on Saturday, when Kallanai learned that Amritharaj was visiting Saranya at her residence," the officer said. "Kallanai, Sundarapandi, Chandran and Santhanakumar arrived at Saranya's house a little while later."
 
 "A heated argument between Kallanai and Amritharaj came to blows.   and his friends with a knife. Sundarapandi sustained a deep stab and died on the spot," he said. "Chandran, Saranya's sister Devi and and her grandfather Suruliyappan also sustained injuries."
 
 Sundarapandi was a bachelor. His family rushed to Tiruvallur from Usilampatti after being informed about his death.
 
 Investigators said Saranya new Amritharaj and Kallanai from their days in training for the armed reserve police. "After Saranya, who has a one-year-old son, started a relationship with Amritharaj and Kallanai, she tactfully managed to keep both men at arm's length," another officer said.
 
 "Over the past few months, as she grew closer to Kallanai, Saranya started to ignore Amritharaj and would not take telephone calls from him," he said. "After learning that Saranya was seeing Kallanai, Amritharaj had several arguments with Kallanai and threatened Saranya that he would expose her to her husband in Kashmir," the officer said. "Amritharaj told Saranya that he had photographs as evidence to prove that she was unfaithful to her husband.
 
 "Saranya was alarmed about this and informed Kallanai about Amritharaj's threat," he said. "She planned to invite Amritharaj to her house at the same time as Kallanai and settle the matter one way or the other. But Sundarapandi finally paid the price for an issue that he had nothing to do with."
 
