PUNE: A 24-year-old youth who was shot at point-blank range earlier this year has not just survived the injury, but is well on his way to recovery after multiple surgeries.

 Sanjay, a florist, was shot at in January while trying to intervene and stop a fight. The   from the country-made firearm went piercing, tearing and ripping through his brain, causing extensive damage and haemorrhages to the left half of his brain.
 
 Doctors said there have been precedents involving similar, but superficial injuries. However, this case is unique. “It is probably the first-of-its-kind case with the bullet lodging so deep in the brain, causing extensive intracranial damage. Despite all these, the patient has shown such a remarkable recovery. This is nothing short of a miracle,” they said.
 
 After the injury, Sanjay was rushed to Ruby Hall Clinic, Wanowrie branch, around 11.30am on January 2.
 
 His CT scan showed the bullet’s entry point lateral to the left orbit, and continuing inwards for 10cm to hit the interior of skull in the midline. “The bullet then changed its path to finally settle in the tentorial basin, which is a fold of brain covering matter separating the cerebrum from the cerebellum,” Gandhi said.
 
 “Evaluations and scans showed a penetrating brain injury with the bullet-path damaging over 10cm areas within the cortex. It was noticed that the bullet had got firmly lodged deep within the midline,” neurosurgeon Sanchin Gandhi, the treating doctor, said.
 
 Soon after admission to the hospital, the medical team quickly worked together to stabilise Sanjay haemodynamically. The team then performed a craniotomy to remove a part of his skull to allow the brain to swell without becoming compressed.
 
 “If the brain doesn’t have any place to expand, there can be even more damage. Confinement can prevent blood flow,” Gandhi said.
 
 Reaching the bullet, however, was difficult in the first go. “We chose to give the patient 2-3 days to stabilise, following which a complex procedure was undertaken to remove the bullet,” he said
 
 However, this was just the beginning of a new set of complications. “Further scans revealed an abscess in the bullet bed, for which another   was performed,” he said.
 
 Over the course of the next 10-15 days, Sanjay showed gradual neurological recovery with eye movements, left-sided purposeful activity and began breathing on his own, not requiring ventilator support.
 
 Sanjay was later discharged on March 2. However, he was readmitted to Sanjeevan Hospital in Erandwane again under the care of Gandhi on May 17.
 
 “Sanjay had developed a collection of fluid (cerebrospinal fluid) on the right side of his brain, which was pushing the brain towards the left side. He underwent fluid drainage and another surgery,” Gandhi said
 
 Now, Sanjay is wide awake, laughing and eating well. “His parents are delighted to see him walk, although with support. He has weakness in his right limbs along with difficulty in speech,” his father said.
 
 “Sanjay merits a close follow-up schedule. His family must keep a close watch for headache, vomiting, fever and convulsions,” the neurosurgeon said.
 
 
