Panaji: Salvage and recovery of the stricken MV Lucky Seven could be long-drawn say authorities concerned who will assess the position of the grounded vessel on Wednesday. Officials said that even after the Tanzanian-flag vessel is re-floated, it has to be checked for damage and ready for towing to Mormugao Port Trust (MPT). “It is going to be a long process. Once the vessel is salvaged, the directorate general of shipping and mercantile marine department, has to declare it fit,” MPT chairman I Jeyakumar said. There appears to be uncertainty over the registration of the foreign vessel with sources saying that the ship is neither registered as an inland vessel nor with the director general of shipping. Golden Globe Hotels has contracted a Mumbai-based salvage company to help refloat the vessel, sources said. The process to register it under the inland vessels with the Captain of Ports is still ongoing. “We have removed most of the fuel onboard the ship so that the vessel is lighter and easier to float,” a source in the CoP said. Despite several warnings from authorities, MV Lucky Seven, a casino vessel owned by former Haryana home minister Gopal Kanda, attempted to sail up River Mandovi during rough weather last week. The vessel will be towed back to MPT once it is recovered from Miramar beach and found safe to be towed to open sea. “MPT is ready to provide all the help required. CoP has not yet written to us but we will visit the site to understand the status,” Jeyakumar said. The casino vessel which is promoted by Golden Globe Hotels Pvt Ltd ran aground near Miramar beach due to heavy rains and choppy currents. This was after its management failed to adher to the warning issued by the Captain of Ports. The Indian Coast Guard had to rescue four crew members from the vessel using a helicopter after receiving a distress signal.  Two tug boats tried to guide the vessel, which is the sixth offshore casino to enter River Mandovi, when the towing line snapped due to turbulence and when the vessel ran aground. The Captain of Ports had warned the vessel’s promoters that during the monsoons it would be risky to bring the vessel into the river due to the Aguada sand bar being closed.