NEW DELHI: The government indicated on Saturday that the recent rise in   did not dampen the case for a rate cut as the finance ministry had factored in the possibility of 4% inflation in the medium term. 

  A government source said the possibility of higher inflation was budgeted for when the government made the case for a rate reduction in the Economic Survey, which had identified several challenges faced by the economy. Chief economic adviser   has at least twice gone public against the monetary policy committee's decision to hold rates, and suggested the inflation modelling is flawed and unable to read the price signals currectly, a view shared by several independent economists. 
 
 The panel, headed by   governor  , is meeting in early October amid expectations that it will postpone a further reduction in rates, citing rising inflation. 
 
  The statement comes at a time when the government is discussing a stimulus of sorts to boost economic growth, although sources said no decision had been taken on the quantum of the package. Separately, Subramanian told reporters on Saturday that a package was in the works and would be announced in due course . 
 
 "We have lots of challenges ahead... we have seen growth slowing down and investment not picking up. So, we have to attack this problem on many fronts - exchange rate, public   - while maintaining macroeconomic stability," he said. 
 
 The chief economic adviser also said the economy was facing multiple challenges, including the impact of   and GST, as well as an appreciation of the Indian rupee. Subramanian added that the RBI was intervening heavily and that the recent appreciation of the Chinese yuan against the US dollar had helped the rupee a little but it was not sufficient to cover the loss over the last six to nine months. With global trade on the the recovery path, the government's chief economist suggested Indian manufacturing would benefit. 
 
 "All countries struggle with this challenge (currency appreciation). Different countries take measures based on their trade-offs and objectives. What the RBI has been doing is to stem appreciation of the rupee," he said. The big appreciation in the rupee between January and April impacted both exports and imports, he said, adding that the RBI had been intervening in the forex market for the past three months. 
 
 
