Coimbatore: Production orders for missiles of the defence research and development laboratory ( ), Hyderabad, will grow four times to 1lakh crore by 2020, its director M S R Prasad said here on Thursday.

 “One of Drdl’s signature products is the Akash missile system. The investment for research on Akash was Rs 250crore. Today, we have production orders worth Rs 25,000crore,” Prasad said after inaugurating the Kumaraguru Centre for Industrial Research & Innovation (Kciri) at the Kumaraguru College of Technology.
 
 India is all set to become a superpower in 10 years, the scientist said. “India is growing rapidly. By 2024, India will be the most populated country. The country should focus on science and research for industrial development,” he said.
 
 Prasad said it is essential for industries to invest at least 2% of revenue in research and development. “Every industry cannot afford to have its own R&D facility. Hence, they outsource their R&D. Such innovation centres will come into play in helping industry resolve their problems,” he said.
 
 However, India invests only 0.9% of its expenditure in research, Prasad said. “The idea has always been to spend 2% every year, but we have never been able to spend more than 0.9%. Of this, one-fourth investment comes from the industry. Industries in most developing nations bear 60% research expenses. Smaller countries like Israel are spending 4% every year on R&D,” he said.
 
 The scientist congratulated the KCT management for setting up a centre of industrial research and innovation. “Kciri will take up industrial problems and carry out research to address the issues. KCT should network with retired scientists of the Defence Research and Development Organization and the Indian Space Research Organisation, and utilise their expertise in solving industrial problems,” he suggested.
 
 Prasad said Kciri should focus on ensuring good quality products. “The centre should also focus on value engineering. It is essential to bring down the cost of the products,” he said.
 
 
