PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: As many as 5,000 residents of 15 housing societies from Krishnanagar in Chikhali have demanded relocation of slums, spread over 8-10 acres, in the area that have come up on plots reserved for civic amenities like a bus terminal, a garden and a parking lot.

 The residents, who have formed a federation, met officials of the Pimpri Chinchwad New Township Development Authority (PCNTDA) to press for their demand on Monday . The affected housing societies include Jare Corner, Siddhi Anand, Sai Darshan, Siddhi Park, Yashada Ambition, Ekdanta Heritage, Prathamesh Vihar, Shivam Residency, Jayesh Resi dency,  , Prathamesh Park, Sai Bhumi, Polite Homes, Polite Residency , Sagar Twin Bunglows and Apachi 2.They are located near   that connects Chinchwad to Moshi.
 
 Santosh Mandki of Prathamesh Vihar said, “ An unauthorised slum and a vegetable market have come up on a plot reserved for parking near Siddhi Park. The residents of this slum often harass women when they go out to buy vegetables.“ Residents of Siddhi Park said domestic sewage flowing out of the slum, which has come up along the society's compound wall, has become a huge health hazard. “The sewage not only attracts dogs and pigs, but also finds its way into the housing society, creating a health risk for all of us. Because of the slum, the society residents have to take a long detour to reach Spine Road,“ Samrat Sengupta, chairman of Siddhi Park, said. Rupa Dey , a resident of Alpine Garden, said, “The slumdwellers have made holes in the compound wall of our society .Through these holes, the sewage from their toilets enters into our society compound, which not only attracts mosquitoes but also emanates foul smell.Repeated complains on Sarathi helpline and to civic officials have failed to resolve the issue.“
 
 Another resident of the locality said the slumdwellers have started an unauthorized fish market in the area.
 
 “They dump fish waste on the road near our society at night, which emits foul smell.Also because of this market, the width of the road leading to our society has shrunk,“ he said.
 
 When contacted,  , chief executive officer of the PCNTDA, said, “We have called the federation members for a meeting on February 27 to discuss their problems.“ A senior official, however, said no action can be taken till the election code of conduct is in force.
 
