GHAZIABAD: An   officer’s 65-year-old father was found dead with a gunshot wound on his head on Thursday morning in his house in  . One of his five sons, 27-year-old Anuj who has been under treatment for schizophrenia, was booked for the murder.

 Police said Ishwar Chand Tyagi was shot in his sleep. He had retired for the night on a divan in the living room of the single-storey house, and that was where his lifeless body lay when his wife Rajkumari walked in around 6.45am.
 
 On the basis of a complaint filed by Tyagi’s nephew Amit later in the day, murder charges were filed against Anuj (Dabbu) at Kavi Nagar police station. No arrests have been made yet. 
 
 SP (City) Akash Tomar told TOI, “The wife of the deceased has corroborated the allegations made in the police complaint and confirmed that Anuj had indeed shot at Tyagi. We have formed three teams to nab the accused while efforts are under way to trace his location. The body was sent for an autopsy and its report is awaited.”
 
 Anuj, who used to live in a separate house in Kavi Nagar had come to his father’s place on Wednesday evening and stayed overnight.
 
  Since the shooting, he has gone missing and switched off his mobile phone. The others present in the house at the time of the murder included Amit, a domestic help Manish and Tyagi’s daughters-in-law. Police said Tyagi’s elder brother Ranveer had also visited the residence on Wednesday but had left at night.
 
 Anuj and Tyagi’s youngest son Kapil live in  . Of Tyagi’s three elder sons, Pravin and Kuldeep live in Mumbai while Sanjiv is a cop, a UP-cadre officer now posted in Lucknow as SP (cooperatives) cell. Tyagi owned a rice mill. The family is originally from Morta village in Ghaziabad.
 
 Police said there were differences between Anuj and Tyagi, which had led to quarrels between the two. Anuj is believed to have suffered huge financial losses in a company in which he had invested as a partner around three years ago. A source said he had a history of violent behaviour and had been jailed in the past for opening fire inside a park. Anuj has been undergoing treatment at Vimhans in Delhi for the past few years.
 
 Dr Neerav Tyagi, superintendent of Pulmonic hospital that examined Tyagi’s body, said, “The victim was brought to the hospital around 8.30am. There was a single lacerated wound at the top of his skull. He was dead by the time his body was brought to the emergency ward of the hospital.”
 
 The hospital issued a memo about the death to police around 9.30am. Teams of policemen thereafter reached the hospital as well as the Tyagi residence for investigations.
 
