HYDERABAD: A tramway that is being proposed between MJ Market and Charminar will cost about Rs 250 crore. Although the cost of building one-km tramway is pegged at approximately Rs 100 crore, this mode of mass transport still is much cheaper than other systems such as the metro rail, feel officials of the   ( ). In addition, the tramway can be set up with minimum land acquisition or no land acquisition at all on the 2.3km stretch between the two locations. The tramway is being modelled on the lines of the one in Bordeaux, France and the issue has been discussed during the workshop on Charminar Pedestrianisation Project ( ).

 The tramway can carry 3 lakh persons a day in the Charminar area where the population is about 70,675. It is the floating population that is more in the area with tourists alone accounting for anywhere between 15,00025,000 each day with higher numbers registered on holidays.
 
 According to a preliminary study , while the tramway can earn a revenue of Rs 75 crore per year through tickets with a basic fare of `10, the operational cost comes to about Rs 45 crore a year.There will not be any burden on the government for operation and maintenance of the project, officials said. “The GHMC also received suggestions from people and political parties to install the tramway from Golconda Fort to Qutub Shahi Tombs to help pro mote tourism in the city. The GHMC wants to take up the project after the CPP is completed in the next three months,“ GHMC commissioner B Janardhan Reddy told TOI.
 
 Municipal Administration and Urban Development department officials see the tramway as an alternative solution to overcome traffic and pollution problems. As part of metro rail project, Corridor II was proposed between   to Falaknuma that passes through the   . The project works could not be started due to stiff resistance from Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (MIM). The party has been opposing it as the existing alignment would lead to acquisition of several hundreds of properties and suggested alternative alignment be considered. But officials have argued that change of alignment is not viable.
 
 Now, officials are of the opinion that if a tramway is found suitable between MJ Market and Charminar it can be extended to other areas of the Old City if metro rail is not taken up in the area.
 
