GURUGRAM: A day after the   (HUPA) ministry clarified that builders can continue marketing of their ongoing projects till July 31 even if they are not registered with the   ( ),   on Thursday urged the state government to come up with an online registration system.

 “We urge the state government to introduce a modern registration system for real estate projects under RERA. Maharashtra is doing online registration, we want a similar system for Haryana as it will be convenient for all,” said Praveen Jain, national president of National Real Estate Development Council (NAREDCO).
 
 The delay in setting up of the RERA in Haryana had left developers confused about the advertisement and sell of their ongoing projects. As per the provisions of RERA, which came into force across the country from May 1, 2017, developers cannot advertise or sell units in under-construction projects without getting it registered with respective state regulatory authority. 
 
 In case of Haryana, the regulatory authority has not yet come into existence as the government has issued draft rules for Haryana RERA on April 28.
 
 Section 3 of RERA says no promoter shall advertise, market, book, sell or offer for sale, or invite persons to purchase in any manner any plot, apartment or building, as the case may be, in any real estate project or part of it, in any planning area, without registering the real estate project with the RERA established under this Act.
 
 TOI carried a story on April 30, highlighting the confusion among developers over the advertisement of their ongoing projects. 
 
 Following the same, HUPA ministry on Wednesday clarified that according to RERA, existing ongoing projects need to file for registration with their respective regulatory authority by July 31. 
 
 Till then, the developers can continue their marketing and other activities like construction and securing the approvals from the existing authorities.
 
 Anil Suri, vice president of NAREDCO Haryana, said there should be a system wherein developer can submit all the details of projects, along with the registration form, online. “The process should be user friendly,” said Suri, adding RERA will be helpful in streamlining the sector.
 
 
