NAGPUR: After an inordinate delay of over 11 months, the   finally lodged an FIR in the Vakataka-era coins missing case on Wednesday. The   registered the complaint under Section 380 (theft in dwelling house, etc) of IPC on Thursday morning against unidentified people.

 It is not exactly known when the coins went missing. The case came to light only on March 31 last year when TOI reported about it. On the next day, the paper highlighted that a 2014 report of a fact-finding committee led by divisional commissioner Anoop Kumar, who held the additional VC’s charge, too had gone missing. 
 
 In a series of reports, the newspaper had exposed how the precious coins and artefacts, allegedly worth crores in the international market, were stolen from the museum of the   department of ancient Indian history, culture and archaeology. The university top brass also seemed to be trying to save the culprits by not filing an FIR.
 
 VC SP Kane told TOI that they had taken legal opinion on lodging the FIR from its standing counsel Purushottam Patil as directed by the police officials. “We initially lodged the complaint of missing antiquities, after which the Ambazari cops conducted preliminary investigations. After getting some leads, they approached us stating that we need to lodge a formal FIR of theft instead of a missing complaint.”
 
 As per the FIR filed by NU estate officer Vinod Ilme, about 2,633 artefacts and 224 Vakataka-Vishnukundin era coins, kept in the museum since 1965, were stolen. The theft came to light after head of department (HOD) Preety Trivedi took over the charge in 2014 from Pradeep Meshram. She realized that the missing coins were not registered in the stock verification which is done every year. 
 
 She then apprised Kumar who then constituted a panel under ex-HODs Chandrashekhar Gupta, Ismail Kellelu, Nandini Sahu, Shubha Johari and noted historian BR Andhare. They submitted a report in July 15, 2014, which went missing.
 
 It was only after Kane sought a written explanation from the divisional commissioner that he produced the “missing report” and sent it with an apology letter on April 14 last year. 
 
 As per the report, the needle of suspicion was on ex-HOD Meshram who was absconding for a long time after the coins went missing. The probe report also mentions that a report authored by Meshram was published in a national journal with photographs of the missing coins.
 
 The Ambazhari cops recently visited Meshram’s home in  , but came to know that he was in Pune. 
 
 The cops told TOI that they had written to the Archeological Survey of India (ASI) to know the exact details and value of precious artefacts and coins. The ASI officials told police that NU was illegally exhibiting the artefacts and coins in the museum without its permission. All such precious items need to be registered with the ASI first, but it was never done in all these years.
 
 The coins were donated to NU by a Paonar-based farmer who had found them in his farm while digging in 1967. It included gold, silver and bronze coins of Vakataka era. All such precious articles and coins, which have been kept in department, were registered as “antiquities”.
 
 NU officials claimed that top varsity authorities had tried to protect the retirement and pension benefits of Meshram by delaying the FIR. According to the cops, Trivedi, draftsman Sakharkar and photographer Vandana Khedikar too are under the lens.
 
 
