NEW DELHI: Union minister and   (LJP) chief   demanded that central agencies investigate the corruption charges against BSP president  , RJD supremo Lalu Prasad and Delhi CM Arvind  . 

 Talking to TOI, Paswan said the charges against the three leaders were “serious” and needed thorough investigation.
 
 Taking a dig at Kejriwal’s silence on charges levelled by his former aide   and Bihar CM   not speaking on up   leader Sushil Modi’s allegations against Lalu Prasad, Paswan said, “Their silence sends the message that the charges are not baseless and they are aware of everything.
 
 Maun sanmati lakshanam (silence is a sign of acceptance).” He added that Nitish could not remain silent for long and the day he spoke or acted, there would be a big crisis in his government.
 
 Paswan said there were were several corruption charges against Kejriwal earlier but people did not believe them. He added that now the charges were far more serious and the CM needs to speak up.
 
 “It’s no different in the case of Nitish Kumar. If he is not taking any action with regard to corruption charges against Lalu Prasad and his alleged role in disturbing the law and order situation, then he will be equally responsible for the state of affairs in Bihar. I feel that BJP’s strong position has compelled RJD and JD (U) to maintain status quo despite the fact that everything is not well within the coalition ,” Paswan said.
 
 On allegations and counter allegations by Mayawati and her former confidant Naseemuddin Siddiqui, Paswan said there was nothing new about corruption involving the BSP chief. “Mayawati must answer as to how she got Rs 402 crore after demonetisation. She was always known as ‘daulat ki beti’. BSP tickets were sold in every election. The practice of putting blame on only one person after throwing him or her out of a party is not right. It’s also not right for anyone to keep putting blame on the party leadership after he is suspended. Why were they not speaking about corruption while sharing power?” he asked.
 
