NEW DELHI: Six big-name business process outsourcing (BPO) companies, two telecom majors and one big consultancy are running a GoI helpline called   (CMBA) — and they are not charging a paisa for it.
 
  The helpline, running from December 15, is getting 3 lakh calls a day, and even though its aim is to help users understand   systems, plenty of citizens are calling ‘14444’ for grievance redressal on specific digital payment platforms. The idea was Nasscom’s and the suggestion came from Niti Aayog.
  
  The companies involved are Tata Consultancy Services, Tata Business Support Services, Tech Mahindra, Genpact, Intelenet Global Services and Aegis. Vodafone and Tata Teleservices are the telecom majors who are supplying phone line capacity for the helpline. Deloitte is helping manage the service. The companies will run the helpline free till March 31.
  
  Around 130 employees from the BPOs involved are manning phones at various cities around India.
  
  “It is a one-of-a-kind effort in which the IT industry — perhaps for the first time — has come together and provided support to the government free of charge,” said Jagdish Mitra, chief strategy officer at Tech Mahindra.
  
  “This is a   initiative and we agreed with the sentiment of the government. So we decided to offer the services pro bono till March 31, till the time the government realises the worth of this and sets it up on a permanent basis,” said Kanwar B Singh, operations director at Intelenet Global Services.
  
  “Fifteen employees at our Sitapura facility in Jaipur are working from 8 am to 8 pm all seven days a week to support the nation at this crucial hour. The process started on December 29 and we have been receiving an average of 600 calls a day,” said Vidya Srinivasan, senior vice-president, IT and infrastructure, Genpact.
  
  Till date, Genpact’s employees have answered more than 5,000 calls in English and Hindi. Srinivasan added that most of the queries have been around the procedures to be followed while making online payments, followed by questions on BHIM and Paytm.
  
  “There is a lot of education, the kind of questions are very basic. BHIM, the government’s UPI app is the subject of many queries,” said Sandeep Sen, chief executive officer, Aegis, adding that essentially the objective is to educate buyers and sellers such as small kirana stores on how to conduct digital transactions. Aegis has provided 30 employees out of its Kolkata centre.
  
  Intelenet too is offering 30 seats from its Mohali centre for the project and expects to incur a cost of around 30 lakh for the entire exercise.
  
  “We started it three weeks ago and plan to review it in the first week of February and come back to the government to prove there is merit in the exercise,” Singh said. He added that the call volume has been huge though the helpline was not heavily advertised.
  
  BPOs involved in CMBA feel the service will improve over time and that given the call volumes, a commercial model can be thought of after March 31. 
