MEERUT/NEW DELHI: The killing of a businessman’s son in Meerut a day before he was to undertake a ‘padayatra’ (march) in Meerut on Friday has led   chief   to sharpen his attack on the   government over law and order in Uttar Pradesh. Shah called off his ‘padayatra’ and lashed out at the   government, saying UP had become India’s “crime capital” under it. He vowed to make it a poll issue.

 Prime Minister   is scheduled to address a poll meeting in Meerut on Saturday.
 
 Abhishek Verma (21) was killed on Thursday night when he was with his father Sushil Verma, who owns a gutka business, and three workers near his house in Brahmpuri area. Five armed men barged into the godown and looted them at gunpoint. When Sushil and his son resisted their attempt to flee, the gang members opened fire.
 
 “It is a matter of grave concern, and sadness, that a young man’s life was cut short due to the bad law and order situation in the state. I wonder what his mother must be going through. We condole the death and call off the padayatra right now,” Shah said. “But, before that, I seek an answer from the two shehzadas (referring to   and Akhilesh Yadav) on this murder, when they sit for a joint press conference today,” Shah said during a poll rally in the city.
 
 “Just look into the backgrounds of these two shehzadas. Ek ki party ne desh ko loota to doosre ki party ne pradesh ko loota (One’s party looted the country while the other’s looted the state). They are not here for development of the state, but to fool the masses,” Shah said.
 
 Citing figures, Shah said cases of 24 rapes, 13 murders, 33 kidnappings, 19 riots and 136 thefts are reported daily in the state, leading to 7,650 incidents of crime per day. The BJP chief said UP had witnessed 161% jump in crime in the last five years. “Where the state could have been number one in agriculture, they made it number one in robberies," he added.
 
 The BJP chief also said the party would set up a squad to tackle “Romeos” who harass women.
 
 
