CHENNAI: A house in   from where ‘Netaji’ Subhas Chandra Bose launched his armed   is in a dilapidated state, says the owner’s grandson who now wants it transferred to the Indian government to be preserved as a symbol of the fight.

 Paris-based historian J B P More says Bose last visited the house in Saigon (now Ho Chi Minh City) on August 17, 1945, before disappearing into the wilderness the next day.
 
 “My grandfather   gave the mansion at 76, Rue Paul Blanchy [now Hai Bha Trung Road] in Saigon’s posh White area had free of rent to Netaji,” says More. It has great historic significance and should also be preserved as a token of the long-standing friendship between India and Vietnam, he adds. The historian has submitted a petition to the Prime Minister of Vietnam and also sent a copy to Prime Minister Narendra Modi.
 
 “My grandfather was born in Pondicherry on May 1, 1901. He did his schooling in Saigon and settled there. In the early 1930s, when Mahatma Gandhi launched the civil disobedience movement, he was the only Indian-Tamil to resign his lucrative job in the French credit bank of Saigon heeding to the call of Mahatma Gandhi. But when Subhas Chandra Bose launched his armed struggle against the British from southeast Asia, he welcomed Bose to Saigon, garlanding him with a gold necklace,” says More.
 
 Prouchandy was one of those who rallied behind Bose in his drive against the British, helping the movement financially. As prood of his commitment, he vacated the sprawling mansion and gave it away free of rent to the movement, More said. The house was converted into the secretariat of Bose’s movement after the end of the Second World War and the surrender of Japan. “The building is in a bad shape. It needs proper renovation. If it is not done now, then the building will collapse sooon,” said More.
 
 The enormous mansion was where Prouchandy was arrested by the British authorities in September 1945, after imperial Japan’s surrender and the end of the Second Word War, in front of his wife and all family members. He was then imprisoned in the infamous Bot Catinat prison of Saigon, where he was subjected to severe torture that left him shattered, said More.
 
 Later, Prouchandy was brought back to his native Pondicherry where he died in 1968. “His sacrifice for the freedom of his country needs to be remembered. It’s the history of our freedom struggle. That is why I submitted the petition to the Vietnamese government asking them to transfer the historic building to India,” he adds.
 
