NEW DELHI: In a scathing attack on the Opposition amid ongoing assembly poll campaign, Union Minister   on Monday said politics should not be played with religion and security forces and charged 'netaji' and 'behanji' with playing the minority card.

 Raising the political pitch, Sharma, who belongs to Uttar Pradesh, said it was "shameful" to divide the society on the basis of religion and for some people to claim that Muslims are with them.
 
 In an apparent dig at Samajwadi Party and Bahujan Samaj Party ahead of the Uttar Pradesh elections, Sharma said "some 'netaji' and 'behanji' say Muslims mera hai (Muslims are with us)."
 
 Initiating a discussion in the Lok Sabha on the Motion of Thanks on the President's Address, Sharma said it was "shameful" that proof was sought by the Opposition for "patriotism" after the surgical strikes.
 
 For the first time, "rashtra bhakti ka saboot dena pada (proof of patriotism had to be given)," Sharma said while referring to the Opposition demanding evidence for the surgical strikes carried out by the forces last year to destroy terror camps across the border.
 
 The Minister said it needs "not only a '56 inch chest' but also a 'beating heart'", along with firm commitment, to take up developmental works under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.
 
 Alleging that politics was being done in the names of Dr Ambedkar and Mahatma Gandhi, Sharma said the Opposition should not to do politics on issues relating to national interest.
 
 Amid criticism over the demonetisation move affecting many people and its overall benefits, Sharma claimed that while the whole nation stood with the Prime Minister, the Opposition chose to be with the corrupt people.
 
 Sharma said Prime Minister knew about the Assembly elections in five states but despite that he took this "bold and historic" step to curb the menace of black money and corruption.
 
 He also said people raised questions that demonetisation was not a planned step but how "we pumped new currency within 24 hours. All are standing with the Prime Minister on this decision". 
 
 With regard to the Budget announcement of limiting cash donations for political funding, the Minister said parties must be facing problems due to the Budget announcement regarding cash limit in political funding.
 
 "Abhi toh jeb fati hai, ab kurta bhi fatne wala hai (Now pocket has been torn, kurta is also going to be torn)," he said indicating there is more to come.
 
 Claiming that India was now attracting huge FDI, he said the government has taken several measures for the benefit of farmers such as Fasal Bima Yoyna and Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchai Yojana.
 
 Elaborating on the "pro-people measures" taken by the government, Sharma said the Opposition criticism that this government worked only for big business was wrong as all steps taken were aimed at the development of the poor, farmers and youth.
 
 The government provided gas connections to 1.5 crore women in families living Below Poverty Line (BPL) and the target is to provide gas connections to five crore more women, Sharma said, adding "we have not discriminated" in terms of religion and caste.
 
 Sharma said the tourism sector grew at a rate of 15.6 per cent, with the government extending e-visa facilities to 161 countries, and even during demonetisation, the sector recorded healthy growth, both in terms of value and volume of tourists.
 
 While urging the Opposition not to oppose everything that the government does, BJP member Virendra Singh, who seconded the motion, said demonetisation has benefited people, including farmers.
 
 Taking a dig at the law banning liquor sale in Bihar, he said increase in milk production and liquor consumption will stop in the country.
 
 Attacking the Opposition on the allegations that demonetisation has impacted farmers, he said there was increase in the acreage of pulses and other food grains. "If farmers were impacted, how did the acreage increase?"
 
 Earlier, soon after papers were laid when the House met at noon after an adjournment, Opposition members wanted to raise certain issues but the Speaker did not permit them.
 
 In protest, Opposition members, including those from the Congress and Left, staged a walked out as soon as Sharma started speaking. Trinamool Congress MPs did not join them.
 
 Congress President Sonia Gandhi were among those who walked out. They came back after a brief while.
 
 AAP member Bhagwant Mann, who was barred from attending the House in the last session following controversial video shoot of Parliament complex, was present in the House. 
 
