CHENNAI: The price of water is set to rise as the groundwater table has fallen to a three-year low. 

 On Wednesday, Chennai   officials revealed they had slashed daily water supply in many areas in a move to ration dwindling levels in reservoirs. A day later, data released by the civic body has shown that all is not well in the ground beneath as well: There has been only a 22% rise in the average water levels across the city after the 2016 northeast  . In 2015, following the December deluge, the corresponding rise was close to 80%, and in 2014 it was 50%
 
 The drop in groundwater levels in December 2016 as compared to the previous year is starkly visible. Areas like Valasaravakkam and Royapuram have seen significant dips but the fall is sharpest in Ambattur; in 2015, water was available half a metre below the ground, while this year level has fallen to 3.5m. 
 
 The levels in various areas depend on soil condition, which, in Chennai, varies from sandy to clayey and rocky. While rainwater run-off percolates quickly in areas Adyar, Santhome, Tondiarpet with which has sandy soil, in clayey and hard rock areas T Nagar, Anna Nagar, Guindy, Velachery, the rainwater percolates slowly.
 
 Hydrogeologist J Saravanan said the water level should be co-related with the thickness of the aquifer. "A 3m drop in Ambattur may not be as big a deal as a 1m drop in another area because the aquifer there is deeper," pointed out Saravanan. He said water levels were likely to fall further with the Metrowater cutting supply and people increasingly banking on borewells for the next six months.
 
 Metrowater officials say the assured sources of water are the two desalination plants, Veeranam tank and groundwater sources in Araniar and Kosasthaliar basin. Reservoirs in Poondi, Chembarambakkam, Cholavaram and Red Hills will suffice for only a month.
 
 The civic body is also trying to identify private wells outside the city to draw water from. But a dip in water tables in neighbouring Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur will also have an impact here. As extraction of groundwater for commercial purposes is banned in Chennai district, private operators go to the city’s outskirts. "Most tanker operators have hiked rates by `200. We may have to hike it further if farmers deny access to wells citing low levels," said N Nijalingam, president of South Chennai Water Tanker Owners’ Association. 
 
 It isn’t just the level of groundwater but the quality too that is of concern. According to the Central   Board, nitrate levels in the groundwater are higher than the norms set by the Bureau of Indian Standards. High levels of nitrate, introduced through mixing of industrial waste among others, can be dangerous, especially for infants and pregnant women. Metrowater officials say they have been keeping a check by conducting sample tests of the water by private tankers.
 
