NAGPUR: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has cancelled work orders of two packages worth Rs25 crores under the Rs324 crore-cement   project-II to tainted Mumbai-based   Private Limited. The   of the two packages were recently completed.

 On May 14, 2016, TOI had reported how the NMC had approved work orders of two packages — V and VII — to   despite the company being banned by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) for road-work scam.
 
 Following TOI’s report, the NMC put work orders on hold and conducted a detailed investigation. However, it got delayed. The standing committee tried to ‘protect’ RPS Infra. A committee was then appointed to take a final decision.
 
 NMC chief engineer Ulhas Debadwar told TOI that the civic chief finally decided not to give work orders to RPS Infra. 
 
 Work order of package-VII, covering road from Anjuba High School to Mahakalkar Hall to Gajanan Shala T-point, Siddheshwar Hall to Rajkamal chowk and Ayodhya Nagar-Basaveshwar Statue, has been issued to PK Nagarare Company.
 
 For package-V, DP Jain and Company has emerged as the lowest bidder and the work order is likely to be issued soon. The package covers Untkhana Road from Medical Square to Ashok Chowk and Ridge Road up to Ambedkar Statue on Rameshwari Road.
 
 Before the controversy erupted, the NMC had given work orders of two packages — VI and VIII — worth Rs27.91 crore to RPS Infra. Work orders were issued on April 20 and work was to be completed in 11 months.
 
 Package-VI covers Rameshwari Road from Ambedkar Square to Ring Road, Bhagwan Nagar Road from Trisharan Square to Pragati Colony Road to Ring Road via Banerjee Layout, road from Balaji Nagar Nullah to Venu Corner and road from Bhagwan Nagar School to Balaji Nagar Nullah.
 
 Package-VIII covers road from Sakkardara Lake to Dattatray Nagar, Sakkardara Cement Road up to Ayurvedic Hospital, road from Gajanan School to Uday Nagar Square and road from Gajanan Square to Mhalgi Nagar Square.
 
 As per the NMC’s data, RPS Infra failed to complete the work in the two packages it was awarded. The NMC is likely to give extension to RPS Infra as other contractors too failed to complete the works in given deadline. Of the total 22 packages, deadline of 12 packages has come to an end.
 
