KOLHAPUR: The   has come up with an idea of declaring the   of Kolhapur as the  , plant, animal and reptile and announced   

 The forest officials have identified   (Buceros bicornis) as district bird, Fan-throated Lizard (sarada darwini) as district reptile, Gaur (Bos gaurus) as mammal, Son Ghanta (Abutilon ranadei) as flower, Great Orange Tip (hevomonia glaucippe) as butterfly, Carissa congesta as fruit, Fishtail Palm (Caryota urens) as tree and Caecilian (Ichtyophis Sp. with yellow lateral stripe) as amphibian.
 
 Prabhu Nath Shukla, deputy conservator of forest, Kolhapur said, "Kolhapur is the first district to have taken such an initiative to identify eight flagship species to boost conservation of biodiversity. Almost all the species that we have identified are well-known. People will give good response if they are asked to conserve species they are familiar with."
 
 Environmentalist Madhukar Bachulkar said the move is welcome but only identifying these species won't help in conservation of biodiversity of the forest. "Before this, there are a number of animals, plants and birds identified by the state and at the national level. This helps in spreading awareness about these particular species. But we have to take some more steps and reach out to people to spread awareness."
 
 He lamented that the state government has not taken any steps to form biodiversity committees in villages for conservation. "As per the court order, it is mandatory for the state government to ensure that biodiversity committee is formed in every village. No government official is taking steps to ensure that the committees are formed. If they are formed, it will be easy to send message to villages and create awareness among people," he said.
 
 Bachulkar said that the formation of such biodiversity committees would have helped address the issue of the eco-sensitive zones in the Western Ghats, which is being politicised. "If villagers were briefed by the forest officials about the importance of conservation of eco-sensitive zone in Western Ghats and how it will not impact them, they would not have opposed it. Still there is time, the forest and government officials should take steps to reach out to the people," he said. 
 
 Shukla said that they have identified the spots where these species have shown their presence in the forest area. Soon, these areas will be declared as restricted zones for people so that the species can flourish. 
 
 "We will take the help of locals and villagers from the neighbouring areas for conservation. Also, we will ensure that the village-level biodiversity committees are formed and villagers come forward to conserve the biodiversity, which is our main aim of the whole task," said Shukla.
 
