Lucknow: Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati on Friday joined Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national president   in attacking the ruling Samajwadi Party (SP) government over killing of businessmen in Meerut and Lucknow.

 While Shah cancelled his foot march in Meerut, Mayawati issued a statement saying that the two incidents were testimony of prevailing ‘Jungle Raj’ in Uttar Pradesh. Mayawati said that the law and order situation in the state has been at a low ever since the SP came to power. 
 
 “While goons and mafias gained the patronage of the ruling party, the officials remained callous,” she said in a statement. Mayawati also attacked the Congress for aligning with the SP, “which is headed by a leader (Akhilesh Yadav) who is ‘tainted’ and responsible for 500 communal riots in the state”. “This way, the prevailing crime situation in the state would be termed as ‘Jungle Raj’ of SP-Congress alliance,” she said. 
 
 The BSP boss also demanded the Election Commission of India (ECI) to ensure adequate security measures during polling. 
 
 Mayawati’s statement came hours after Shah slammed the ruing SP saying that Uttar Pradesh has become India’s “crime capital” and vowed to make it a poll issue. “Murders have become a common occurrence in the state... an atmosphere of fear and terror reigns here,” Shah said. He said that the morale of criminals is so high in the state, even police personnel are not safe let alone the common man. 
 
 Citing figures, Shah said that the state was witnessing 7,650 incidents of crime per day. “Restoring the law and order and sending criminals behind bars will be our priority after a BJP government is formed,” he tweeted. 
 
 Shah’s attack came close on the heels of a protest by BJP MPs outside the Parliament. The MPs sat on a dharna and shouted slogans like ‘Akhilesh ka haath goonda-gardi ke sath’. BJP’s Baghpat MP, Satyapal Singh said: “There has been no law and order in the state in last five years. Time has come to uproot this government. Basti MP Sharad Tripathi alleged that there is anarchy in the state. Later speaking to media, party spokesperson Sambit Patra alleged that there was no rule of law in the state and crime graph had steadily risen according to the state government’s data.
 
 Mayawati and Shah were referring to recent murders in Meerut and Lucknow. In Meerut, five armed men had barged into the godown of a businessman Sushil Verma and looted it at gunpoint. When Verma’s son, Abhishek (24) resisted, the gang members opened fire killing him on the spot. Likewise, in Lucknow a businessman in Sadatganj area, Shrawan Sahu was murdered by five armed goons.
 
 
