BHOPAL: Thousands of government schoolteachers are on the tenterhooks as the state has put them on test — and told them clearly that they have to pass it to retain their job.
 
 The sudden cloud on their sarkari naukri has shaken them up, especially because they have been pitted against fresh candidates. The old-timers accuse the government of trying to transfer them through backdoor means.
 
 All these teachers have been working at government schools, categorised as ‘model’ and ‘excellence’ ones, for years and suddenly find themselves being challenged by young blood.
 
 The school education department, through Vyapam, asked Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) to conduct the online exams that thousands of teachers took on Monday. Many came out of the test glum-faced, saying it was “full of ambiguity”. Hundreds came with their families, who waited anxiously outside the exam centre.
 
 “The government has failed to implement a transfer policy for teachers. Earlier, they attempted transfers through rationalisation of ‘surplus’ teachers but were unsuccessful. Now, they are trying to transfer us forcibly by conducting exams,” fumed Aasha Mehra, a teacher from Betul.
 
 Another teacher agreed with her and pointed out that the state has given them 20 options to choose from ‘normal government schools’ in case they fail the screening. “I didn’t do well in the exams as we were given only eight days to prepare. I know I will be transferred to a remote area and I fear losing my job,” she said, asking not to be named.
 
 Many of the teachers said they were not able to understand why they are being put through the screening when they were recruited by the government years ago for ‘excellence’ and ‘model’ schools. According to them, they have been told to compulsorily appear for the test to avoid termination.
 
 “I wonder if (minister) Vijay Shah has checked the qualifications and ability of his officers before sending them to school education department. This is humiliation. The government is questioning the hard work, competence and dedication of more than 5,000 qualified teachers,” said teacher L C Lillohore.
 
 “It seems the authority doubts its own credibility. By conducting this exam, they are making a mockery of the teaching profession. It means officials made a huge mistake years ago and now want to rectify it. How unfortunate that they are doing it just for transfers,” said teacher N K Rawat, who came for the test from  , about 300-km from  .
 
 Another teacher, Susheela Gautam, said: “If we were not qualified enough for excellence and model schools, why did the government recruit us? We wouldn’t have wasted our time and tried our luck in other departments.”
 
 While the veterans are glum, freshers are full of hope. “We accept that it will create hurdles for teachers already on the job, but it will also give aspirants like us new hope and a chance to teach in good schools,” said an aspirant, Rajendra Verma. Another youngster grinned and said: “Let the best teacher win.”
 
 Educationists, however, feel the screening of veteran teachers is “unfair.” “Vigorous training should be provided to these teachers to improve the education at the grassroots rather than this screening test. The test should have been only for new aspirants. Let everybody compete in Teacher Eligibility Test (TET) and then apply it to all the cadres. Why are teachers made scapegoats every now and then?” asked educationist B N Trisal.
 
 Earlier this week, hundreds of teachers approached high court, which has stayed results of the screening.
 
 
