The New Year had barely been ushered in, church choirs could be heard from the outside and those on the arterial roads were yet to overcome the midnight madness that grips Chennai every New Year's Eve when a speeding motorcycle rammed a minivan on   flyover in T Nagar. The rider, a reveller without a helmet, was flung from his bike. Lying in a pool of blood amid the shattered glasses of the van he probably saw fellow partygoers zoom past him before falling unconscious. Somebody called an ambulance and - in the blinking lights and screeching siren -the sound of late-night music was drowned out for a brief while. As the ambulance went down the flyover, the revelry resumed, loud music, speeding bikes and happy people.

 On the arterial roads Anna Salai, 100 Feet Road and  , revellers had a free run despite police presence. On the other roads, where security was minimal, violations were the rule.Four fatal accidents that took place on New Year's Eve in the city were in Anna Nagar, Basin Bridge, ICF and Vilivakkam, where police presence was skeletal.
 
 Additional commissioner of police, traffic, Abhay Kumar Singh, said “entire fleet was on the road keeping a strict vigil“. “We always come down heavily on drunken driving, even if it is New Year's eve.We have booked not less than 60 cases of drunken driving, as this may risk the lives of the rider,“ Singh said. But the reckless revelry continued.
 
 Police said most of the accidents were of twowheelers skidding on roads which battered by rain and Cyclone Vardah. Several riders, under the influence of alcohol, lost control of their bikes and met with accidents. But while the police were aware of mass drunken driving, they did little to curb the menace. In Delhi, more than 13,000 people were booked for breaking traffic rules, Mumbai's policemen rounded up 3,356 violators and fined them `3.88 lakh. In contrast, the Chennai police booked only 60 cases. Violators, in the thousands, were mostly ignored or at times let off with a warning.
 
 “We do not want to spoil New Year celebrations of people by penalising them for traffic violations,“ said a police officer. That said, there remains a clear line between a reveller and a violator.
 
 As if to make a case, the city police said tighter security and increased patrolling reduced the number of accidents from 900 last year to 120 this New Year's Eve. But the number of casualties shot up from four to seven. “Most of these accidents involve youngsters who ride triples or perform stunts. We usually warn them not to ride recklessly and book cases,“ a senior traffic police officer said, adding that policemen seized several motorbikes.
 
