While the issue of unavailability of parking sheds for vehicle at   railway station continues to irritate passengers, the railway authorities have disowned the responsibility, saying that the private contractor is expected to provide the facility. 

 Stating that even  , including Mumbai and Nanded, do not have sheds at parking places, authorities said the   itself has taken a policy decision to this effect.
 
 On the other hand, the ground-level parking staff at different stations said they cannot afford raising sheds at parking facilities. 
 
 "Our agreement with railways is for a period of five years. Therefore, we cannot invest in permanent facilities. Considering the inconvenience faced by passengers, the railways should provide sheds at parking spots, a contractor from Marathwada region said. 
 
 He also recalled an incident when a large tree uprooted during the rains and damaged a few vehicles at the parking area.
 
 Rajesh Shinde, public relations officer of South Central Railway, Nanded division, said the policy decisions taken by the railway board are to be followed by every division. 
 
 "We keep on sharing passenger feedback about unavailability of sheds at parking places with the contractors. These private players are duty bound to provide sheds," he said. 
 
 Meanwhile, the passengers are at the receiving end. 
 
 "I often go to Mumbai and park my two-wheeler at Aurangabad railway station for a day or two. It gets subjected to all kinds of weather extremities, especially during summer and winter. Since we pay for parking, we have the right to ask for basic minimum facilities," said Nilesh Kulkarni, a private professional. 
 
 People have to pay Rs 10 for the first six hours and Rs 10 thereafter for parking two-wheelers at Aurangabad station. Owners of four-wheelers are charged Rs 20 for the first three hours. 
 
 The railways has provided 4,810 sq.m. space on station premises for parking passengers' vehicles with contract being given to private party for looking after the parking.
 
 Subodh Washikar, who frequently travels to Nanded, said it was unfortunate that nobody is owning the responsibility of erecting parking facility railway stations. "Passengers should not be held for ransom while the railways and private contractors are passing the buck. The railway ministry should take a policy decision in the interest of passengers," he said.
 
 With the summer season about to start, the passenger community has demanded that sheds must be made available at parking places to protect vehicles from wear and tear. 
 
 Omprakash Varma of advocacy group Marathwada Raiway Vikas Samiti flayed the railway board for its irrational stand on sheds at parking facilities. 
 
 "The railways earns crores of rupees by floating tenders for appointing private contractors, and therefore they are expected to provide the facility. It is wrong to ask any third-party to provide basic facilities," he said.
 
 
