NASHIK: A doctor and a nurse of the   were allegedly manhandled by the relatives of a patient soon after he died of swine flu late on Thursday night. 

 The incident comes close on the heels of a brutal attack on Rohan Mhamunkar, a resident doctor at the Dhule-based Bhausaheb Hire Government Medical College & Hospital, by an accident victim’s relatives on Sunday. He is recovering in a Mumbai hospital now.
 
 The doctors and nurses of the Nashik civil hospital strongly protested against the manhandling of their colleagues by refusing to work at the out-patient department (OPD) at any of the 30 OPDs in government hospitals in the district on Friday.
 
 The doctor, Rahul Patil, and nurse Charusheela Ingle were allegedly roughed up by the relatives of the patient, Nasir Shaukat Shah (40), after being informed about his death. The patient was brought from   taluka in   district to he hospital in a serious condition.
 
 “The patient was initially admitted to a private hospital. When his condition worsened, he was brought to the civil hospital on Thursday afternoon and he died at 10.45 pm. When the nurse informed his relatives that they could not save Shah’s life, they were furious and manhandled her and also Patil,” said G M  , additional civil surgeon at the hospital.
 
 “The doctor and the nurse, however, managed to escape from the spot, following which the police also arrived at the hospital,” he Holey, adding that Patil lodged a police complaint on Friday afternoon against the relatives who have already left for Sangamner.
 
 Inspector Seetaram Kolhe of the Sarkarwada police station said, “The names of the suspects have not been mentioned in the complaint, but our team has been gone to Sangamner to trace them.” 
 
 The staff demanded that security be beefed up at all government hospitals as the law has failed to deter those attacking doctors. A senior doctor said such things do not happen in private hospitals, where patients in the last stage are not accepted.
 
 “Also, security personnel don’t allow more than one relative at a time to meet the patient in private hospitals. We at government offices cannot do so. But this is proving dangerous to the lives of the medical staff,” the doctor said. 
 
