PUNE: Pune slipped by two ranks this year to   in the list of clean cities declared by the   on Thursday, faring better than Mumbai at 29 and Pimpri Chinchwad at 72 but trailing Navi Mumbai, which bagged the ninth spot.

 The ranking was announced under the Swachh Survekshan 2017. Last year, the city’s rank was 11.
 
 However, the city’s relatively “high rank” in the cleanliness index did not go down well with residents and civic activists who have been facing problems due to the piling up of garbage since the past two weeks.
 
 Puneites are sceptical about the parameters used to decide the city’s rank, especially when the administration has not been able to find a permanent solution to garbage management.
 
 Vivek Velankar of Sajag Nagrik Manch said that the rank secured by Pune may look good on paper but the situation on the ground is not at all encouraging. “The processing units are not working and there is no scientific handling and processing of garbage,” Velankar said.
 
 Ajay Darwatkar, a resident of Ahmednagar Road, felt that the city lacks a strong policy on garbage management. When the city is growing at a fast rate it is high time the authorities work to find a solution to the city’s festering garbage problem.
 
 The civic administration has not been able to dump the city’s garbage at Uruli depot because of strong opposition from the villagers. The deadlock has not been resolved for almost 20 days, which has posed a challenge for processing of garbage generated daily.
 
 The civic administration, meanwhile, claimed that it has made sustained efforts to deal with garbage. “Though on paper it appears that our rank has fallen from last year, actually we have retained our position. We were 11th among the metro cities last year. Even this year too, we have are on the same spot,” deputy municipal com missioner (solid waste management) Suresh Jagtap told TOI.
 
 He said that the scope of the competition has been widened this year. Last year, the competition was among 75 cities. This year, the number of competing cities has gone up to 500. Cities with at least 10 lakh population competed with each other last year but this time even the smaller cities having population between 1 lakh and 10 lakh participated in the competition. Two cities, which are ahead of Pune in the new list are smaller than Pune.
 
 A total of 434 cities were surveyed in January and February 2017, out of which 44 were selected from Maharashtra. Pune secured 2nd position in the state after Navi Mumbai, which ranked 9th in the overall list. In fact, Navi Mumbai was only city from the state to figure in the top ten club.
 
