MUMBAI: A strict ban on  , aeromodels and other light flying objects, imposed by an edgy Mumbai  , has affected   studies in the city.

 Project work of students at leading institutes like Sardar Patel College of Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay, K J Somaiya College of Engineering, Veermata Jijabai Technological Institute have been stalled since October 2016 when cops informed student asociations that such objects posed a security threat to the city. A December 29 circular said the ban would be in force from December 31 to January 29. But the restriction was not lifted subsequently.
 
 Students design and fly such models as part of coursework. Aeromodelling is also a popular sport and has spawned national and international competitions which see participation from across the country.
 
 The activity falls within a grey area since the Indian aviation authorities are yet to frame rules governing the flying of microlights and drones. Draft guidelines issued by the Directorate General of Civil Aviation ( ) bans model aircraft along with drones, unmanned aircraft and other remotely-piloted objects, but they are yet to be passed as a law.
 
 Some colleges have petitioned the Indian Academy of Model Aeronautics (IAMA) seeking its intervention to enable their students to conduct flying tests at Mahalaxmi racecourse. Team Onyx India from KJ Somaiya College of Engineering has written to IAMA, saying, "…our team has represented our country at various international competitions in the US across years," said the letter.
 
 With the academic year and international competition deadlines nearing, students are in a bind as they are short of completing the final stages of their projects, said the letter written by the faculty advisor of Onyx.
 
 An Onyx team member said they are unable to conduct flying tests on their model ahead of a national event at IIT-Kanpur where no such ban exists.
 
 Students from Sardar Patel who have taken up aeromodelling projects for their final year and some from VJTI, who hope to participate in a competition organised by the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics in Arizona in April, said the curbs were a hindrance to their chances. “The requirement of the competition is such that we need a big ground to test our flight. The flight path is 300 metres straight and then it takes a 180 degree turn and comes back. We are unable to test the endurance of the battery,” said Sourabh Chinchole from Aero VJTI. In the past, his team used the racecourse ground once in two weeks to test their aircraft after every stage.
 
 A student from IIT-Bombay said, "Some models that students design are tested at the institute itself, but for some, which need qualified expert flyers, they approach outside agencies. These students are facing problems in getting sanctions from local police. It has become a tedious process," said the student.
 
 Darius Engineer, honorary secretary at IAMA, said models have been flown for the last 35 years without any incident. "The blanket ban is not serving any purpose…it is hardly a security concern. Most models we fly are lightweight," said Engineer. The academy has now written to police against the ban.
 
 Ashok Dudhe, DCP (operations) who issued the circular, said the ban was for security reasons. “No flying objects will be allowed without permissions. We have received requests from these people. We are looking at the legalities involved and their application is under process,” he said.
 
