MEERUT: The state government had announced on April 11 that it would procure potatoes directly from farmers at Rs 487 per quintal cut wastage of the crop due to shortage of cold storages. However, farmers in   say they have been unable to sell their produce as they are being turned away from procurement centres for one reason or the other.
 
 “Sometimes we are told that the policy has ended. Sometimes we are told that they don’t have any place to keep the potatoes. Other times, they tell us that the potatoes are not the shape, size and colour that is required,” said Inderpal Singh, a farmer from   who has brought 120 quintals of potatoes to the procurement centre and is being turned away each time over the past six days.
  
 This is despite the fact that on his recent visit to Meerut, chief minister   had raised this point during his public address and categorically mentioned that he had directed the procurement agency to buy all potatoes irrespective of shape and size.
  
 Trying to clear the confusion among farmers, potato and vegetable development officer in Meerut Vineet   said the order to purchase potatoes was only till May 7 and since then no fresh order has been issued. “The order to buy potatoes was only till May 7. Now, there has been no further order. Also, the quality of potatoes is very bad,” he said.
  
 Last month, farmers had thrown potatoes on the road in Meerut in protest against the procurement norms wherein the tubers were being checked for their shape, size and “fairness”. Only potatoes which had a circumference between 30 and 55 millimeters were being bought. Potatoes which were not “well-rounded” were being rejected. In addition, potatoes which were not “fair” were also not being bought.
  
 “Now, when we go to the procurement centres, they turn us away saying that the centres have been shut down or that they have no place to store the potatoes. From my village, every farmer has been turned away every day. We carry our potatoes daily to the procurement centres, but it is not bought,” said   of   village.
  
 Some farmers said after the government had announced that it would buy potatoes, many of them had brought their produce out from cold storage hoping to sell them. “When the government announced the procurement policy, I brought all my potatoes out from the cold storage. I thought finally I will be able to get some money for these potatoes. But now the government is not buying these potatoes and they are not even in a cold storage. They will go bad in a few days and it will be a huge loss for me,” said Honey Singh, a potato farmer of Amarpur village.
