KOLKATA:   will   on Sunday to demarcate their   afresh in a bid to enforce self-regulation ahead of Chaitra Sale, an annual event that brings bumper business for them. The drive comes a decade after a similar endeavour initiated by KMC and hawkers unions failed following the influx of new hawkers and encrochment of more pavements.

 “We have asked all 32 zonal committees of hawkers to dismantle the structures so that the pavement is measured and a third of it demarcated by a painted line. Thereafter, the zonal committee heads will be entrusted with the task of ensuring that hawkers restrict their business within that line. Most hawkers will find their display area reduced. But this is a pain that we must accept for our own interest,“ said Debraj Ghosh, general secretary of the Gariahat Indira Hawkers' Union.
 
 At present, there are 2,100 hawkers registered with Ghosh's union and Ballygunge Hawkers' Union. However, the hawker count on the ground is around 3,400-3,600 as many have joined the business in the past four-five years.
 
 Starting from the pavement on the south-west corner of Gariahat Road-Rashbehari Avenue intersection, the team will demarcate the foopath on the southern flank of Rashbehari Avenue before switching over to the opposite foot and returning to the Gariahat crossing. Thereafter, the team will move towards Gariahat tram depot, move over to the opposite pavement, turn left at the Gariahat crossing and continue towards Ballygunge station. The team will again cross over to the opposite foot, mark a third for hawkers and then turn left to move towards Gol barely 5ft on d f Eid did hawkers ith the footpath l taff park before crossing over to the opposite foot and returning to the spot they had started from.
 
 “We should complete the marking by 3-3.30pm so that hawkers can then set up stalls within the demarcated zone.Given that the pavements vary between 12ft and 21ft in width, we expect the trading zone to be between 4ft and 7ft. Hawkers will not be allowed to extend their display or sale area beyond the line,“ said Ghosh.
 
 On sections where there are two lines of hawkers, one at the pavement edge and another along the shop display window, the hawking space will be split between the two so that the space for pedestrians does not get affected.
 
 “During Chaitra Sale, walking on the pavement is impossible in Gariahat. We believe that if we are to survive, we must do so in a manner that is acceptable to all. The pedestrians' right to pavement cannot be usurped by hawkers. If we antogonise people, it will affect our business,“ reasoned Ghosh. After the hawkers discipline themselves, the twin unions will submit a memorandum to Gariahat police station, urging the OC to ensure that stalls don't encroach on the pavement during the prePoila Baisakh shopping rush.
 
 Shaktiman Ghosh of Hawker Sangram Committee, who had been one of the instrumental figures in the first attempt in 2007-08 when Bikash Bhattacharya was the mayor, felt that if the Gairahat model turned out to be a success, it could be replicated in Hatibagan and other hawking zones.
 
 “Last time, our efforts were foiled because all the resolu tions taken by the KMC apex committee during the Left board were overturned when the Trinamool Congress board was formed in 2010. Among the casualties was the plan to do away with 90% of plastic sheets used by hawkers and replace them with umbrellas,“ said Ghosh.
 
 He also pointed out that the Town Vending Committee that was to be formed as per the Street Vendors (Protection of Livelihood and Regulation of Street Vending) Act, 2014, that was to regulate entry of new hawkers, has been kept in abeyance while encroachment has continued unabated.
 
