ROHTAK: Inspired by famed Phogat sisters, who brought recognition to their village with Aamir Khan starrer “Dangal” movie based on their lives as India’s leading women wrestlers, residents of a neighbouring village in Charkhi Dadri district have started installing daughters’ nameplates outside their houses. 

 Having an impressive child sex ratio (0-6 years) of 1,300 girls against 1,000 boys, Kamod village has around 450 houses and a population of 2,100. It is 15km from Balali village, where wrestler sisters Geeta and Babita live with their father Mahabir Singh Phogat.
 
 “Everyone talks about saving and promoting the girl child, our village panchayat thought of doing it first,” said sarpanch of Kamod Sudharshan Kumar. He said he wanted to do something for the village and “Dangal” film gave him the inspiration to take up the initiative. To set an example, Kumar, who is a postgraduate, said he installed the first nameplate with his daughter Preeti Mothsara’s name outside his paternal house. “Later, it was followed by all panchayat members and anganwadi workers,” he said.
 
  
  
 
 On the panchayat decision, Sanjay Shastri, who is a teacher at a government school in Kamod, said panchayat would bear expenses of nameplates with names of girls, their fathers and mothers name inscribed on those.
 
  
  
 
 Anganwadi worker Jagwanti Devi told TOI that in case of two daughters in a house, the name of the elder one would be put on the nameplate. Sanjay Ramphal, a social activist from Kamod, said: “The whole idea is to get the daughters their place in society and change the patriarchal mindset of people.”
 
  
  Lauding the panchayat move to recognise girls, Mahabir Phogat, father of Geeta and Babita, said that the decision should be replicated by all village panchayats in Haryana. “I am overwhelmed to witness that people have started shunning biases of treating girls less than boys but government should come forward by providing more education and sports facilities in rural areas for promotion,” said Phogat.
 
 
 
 
