CHANDIGARH: In order to bring transparency in the   carried out by the   (HPSC) for various public posts, the   and   high court directed the commission to disclose names of all those candidates who clear the examination conducted by it and marks obtained by each one of them.

 Justice P B Bajanthri of the HC passed these orders while observing that the examination and selection results conducted by the HPSC were notified only with roll numbers and the candidates who intend to challenge the same faced difficulty due to the commission not providing names of those candidates who had cleared the exam and were selected for any public post.
 
 “Therefore, in order to meet transparency HPSC has to reveal names of those who have cleared the examination and marks obtained by each one of them and further in publishing select list, names and marks secured by each one of them be notified in future in respect of future recruitments,” observed Justice Bajanthri in a detailed order released on Tuesday.
 
 Holding the HPSC for “playing fraud” in the selection of assistant professor (college cadre) in physical education, the judge also observed that for efficient functioning of a democracy, it was imperative that public service commissions were manned by people of the highest skill and irreproachable integrity so that selections to various posts could be immunized from political pressure or personal favouritism and were made solely on merit.
 
 HC also directed “to hold a preliminary inquiry through a senior officer of the principal secretary level and if prima facie case is made out against officials of HPSC including secretary of HPSC, initiate disciplinary proceedings against the officials of the HPSC within six months.”
 
 The court also set aside the selection of six candidates and directed the HPSC to carry out a fresh selection process considering the candidature of the petitioner.
 
 The HC order came in the wake of a petition filed by Kuldeep Nara of Rohtak district challenging the process of selection to the post of lecturer/assistant professor (college cadre) in physical education advertised in 2009.
 
 The petitioner had alleged that some candidates were awarded marks even for exams in which they did appear. For instance, a candidate who admitted that she had not cleared the national eligibility test (NET) had been assigned marks for that exam.
 
 Though the selections were made in 2009, the petitioner argued that the information was not put in public domain and he had no knowledge till he received the information using the RTI Act.
 
 
