MARGAO: The sleepy village of   in   has been waking up to the spectacular sight of colourful   flying over its landscape in the last few months. The village has been selected as the take-off point for the hot air balloon rides offered by the   (GTDC). The ride that takes one 1,000 feet into the air gives the flyer a breathtaking, panoramic view of the countryside.

 However, what has baffled the locals of late is the landings of the hot air balloons at unusual locations, triggering rumours of crash landings and inadequate safety aspects. In a bid to allay any such fears, the GTDC offered a hot air balloon ride to reporters on Tuesday. 
 
 While the take off was smooth and the flight marvellous, as expected, the landing occurred at an unusual location and on uneven topography this time as well, nevertheless offering the flyers the thrill of a very safe adventure trip.
 
 “The balloon doesn’t have any direction control. Once in the air, it takes the direction and speed of the wind. At different altitudes, different directions are available, so the pilot tries to play with altitude to move to a suitable place. The balloons can land in any open space. It is wonderful, and one of the safest kind of air sports,” Mukesh Yadav, advisor at Tiger Balloon Safariwhich conducts the hot air balloon rides in Goatold reporters. 
 
 The pilot controls the altitude by heating the air in the envelope and can fly very precisely at any height. Propane fuel is used to heat the air to lift the balloon and make passengers air-borne. The burner unit gasifies liquid propane, mixes it with air, ignites the mixture, and directs the flame and exhaust into the mouth of the envelope (balloon). 
 
 Stating that the adventure activity is gradually picking up, Yadav said its clientele presently comprises 80% of domestic tourists. There are plans to increase the number of balloon rides as the activity becomes more popular among tourists, he added. 
 
 In March 2016, the hot air balloon operations were relocated to South Goa after they were opposed by Calangute locals supported by MLA Michael Lobo and former MLA Agnel Fernandes. The service is presently being carried out at Assolda in South Goa with the take-off location at Assolda village panchayat ground. 
 
 A ride for an hour per head will cost Rs 9,900.
 
