NEW DELHI: After roping in former Union finance minister   to present a deliverable fiscal revamp plan for the three municipal corporations, Delhi   has now come out with a roadmap on solid   management.

 Jairam Ramesh, former environment minister in the Congress-led UPA government, is helping the state leadership put the final touches to the plan. This will be laid out in the public domain later this week. The party will soon follow up with a revamp plan of municipal schools and the health system. Former Union ministers   and Shashi Tharoor have been roped in to prepare these blueprints.
 
 The victory in Punjab assembly polls has given a boost to the Congress campaign for the upcoming municipal elections. The grand old party, which had once ruled Delhi for three consecutive terms, suffered its worst-ever rout at the hands of Aam Aadmi Party in 2015.
 
 The civic polls are critical for Congress’ revival in Delhi and this is the first time that the party’s top leadership is being roped in to bolster the campaign.
 
 Last Wednesday, All India Congress Committee launched a team of observers drawing upon its resources from among ex-MPs and MLAs from states like Rajasthan, Bihar, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh and Tamil Nadu.
 
 The observers will interact with workers and party functionaries across 14 districts, including New Delhi, Chandni Chowk, Patparganj, Rohini, Kirari, Karawal Nagar, among others. They will report back to the party before the candidates are finalised for the 272 wards.
 
 Out of around 10,000 applications received by Congress for the 272 wards, around 4,000 aspirants have been shortlisted for now. Based on feedback from workers and senior party functionaries, a list is expected to be drawn over the next week. The party is expected to release the final list of candidates towards the end of next week.
 
 Asked if the performance of the AAP-led government and BJP in the three corporations will be the main attacking point of the campaign, Delhi Congress chief Ajay Maken told TOI: “Our campaign will be a positive one. We want to give people solutions. For that, the best brains and experienced functionaries are coming forward to put together revamp plans.”
 
 Earlier this month, former Union ministers P Chidambaram and Jyotiraditya Scindia had unveiled a draft blueprint for “Self-reliant Municipal Corporations” at the DPCC headquarters. The document showed how the fiscal management of the municipal corporations could be improved.
 
 
