It’s night time in Gurgaon, and a line of cars rolls past a bamboo toll into a parking lot, forking out Rs 20 a fender. People park, disembark, and bring out their knives. The chicken ain’t going to carve itself !

 Sector 29, made famous by a park called Leisure Valley, a baroque entertainment complex called Kingdom of Dreams, and a quadrant of restaurants and bars, has acquired another signature ‘property’ — a   bay. Evenings it fills up with folk looking for fresh fodder, and they find it in the spread of chimichangas, churros, and California rolls doled out by three dozen   trucks. Settling on camper stools and plastic chairs, they soak in the jazz or electro-pop streaming from Bose speakers rigged to a truck here, or watch a match projected on a truck wall there.
 
 While globally most food trucks peddle their meals on wheels from city streets, their desi counterparts have swerved into private driveways, tech parks and even shaadi venues. The reason — life on Indian roads is rough with hurdles like no proper parking, traffic snarls, sanitation, harassment and bullying from Resident Welfare Associations, hawkers and cops in the absence of clear regulations around cooking and serving off a commercial vehicle. Some ambulant enterprises had to drive into the sunset.
 
 The rest have opted for a different route. “We had to adapt,” says Varun Sequeira, president of the two-year-old Bangalore Food Truck Association ( ). Of the 60 food trucks in Garden City, 48 have hitched their wagon to this organisation, established to lobby for their retail rights. They solicit business from tech parks, college festivals and cultural events as far as Goa. “At tech parks, we pay the establishment a percentage of sales and our members take turns to run their business inside,” Sequeira says. Private parties are now their lifeblood. “In a month you have to average 15 parties or at least four great parties with a billing of around Rs 2 lakh each,” he recommends.
 
 Their place on the streets may be uncertain, but popular culture is hugely accommodating. Food truck festivals have become annual cultural events, with Delhi just concluding one. Food shows on TV and fitness events like marathons also feature these roving cookeries with their 2.0 truck art and their modified machines.
 
 They’re even beginning to turf out traditional caterers from weddings. Recently a client in Chattarpur, Delhi, had Kumar Shobit park his food truck Burnout at the farmhouse where the preshaadi ceremonies were being held. “We were there for four days dishing out tacos, quesadillas and burritos,” says Noida-based Shobit, who was paid a perhead rate for approximately 200 people per day. A year ago he’d sunk Rs 20-25 lakh (for the truck, a Segway to deliver the food, a Bose system and LCD screen for matches) and says he has recovered his investment and started to earn profits, both from private events and the streets. But his trained staff don’t stick around because culinary school doesn’t prepare them for life on the run.
 
 That is why truckers are banding together to campaign for a secure work environment, and to give each other a leg-up. The BFTA, for instance, is asking BBMP, Bengaluru’s municipal authority, to lease out a vacant lot to them like in Gurgaon. “As an organisation, we also maintain our community’s standards of operation and service by auditing each others’ trucks, to make sure the hygiene and quality of food is high,” says Leoma D’souza, co-owner of The Swot Truck and vice-president of BFTA.
 
 There are no official figures, but anecdotal evidence shows despite the drawbacks, the number of food trucks is rising. Sarabjit Chadha, of the vehicle customisation studio, Azad Body Builders, says he customises one or two food trucks a month, while Anuj Panwar of another vehicle fabrication company called Silver Spoon says they’ve tricked out 34 trucks in a year-and-half, having even sent vehicles out to Haridwar, Patna and Lucknow.
 
 In fact, food trucks are haring it to small cities where novelty and scant competition work in their favour. Syed Ahamad Shah opened one in Kodaikanal two months ago. He named it   and serves Baghali Polo and Iranian Pepper Chicken, plus Tamil familiars like veg biryani and parota. “We are the only food truck in Kodai. It’s an international fad but most people here don’t know it,” says Ahamad, who pays a monthly rent of Rs 18,000 to park on 3.5 sqft of private land near the tourist attraction, Green Valley, better known as Suicide Point. It’s how some of the afflicted truckers see the business, but most of them who’ve taken the plunge are convinced an upturn’s coming.
 
