BENGALURU: Traffic continues to crawl across Bengaluru.The vehicular movement along the Marathahalli-Silk Board Junction stretch in the city's IT hub is the lowest -4.48 km per hour -during peak hours, according to a latest study on traffic speed on some of the busiest roads of the metropolis.
 
 The Consortium of Traffic Engineers and   (CTEST) survey conducted in mid-2016 revealed that the average speed of vehicles during peak hours at KR Circle is 9.8 kmph, Infantry Road 11.8 kmph and ITPL Road in   13.9 kmph.
 
 The   has, in its draft Revised Master Plan 2031, estimated that the average traffic speed will drop to 5 kmph by 2031during peak hours and average 8 kmph during the day .
 
 Till 2008, Bengaluru was the second worst city in the country with an average traffic speed of 18 kmph. Bengalureans' plight was slightly better than only Kolkata, where vehicles could, at the most, achieve 17kmph.
 
 Even cab aggregator Ola, which studied traffic through heat sensing and number of trips booked during 2016, found the   to be a nightmarish bottleneck in the city during 2016. The average traffic speed has fallen under 9 kmph. The BDA's 2031 scenario is based on doubling of population of the city , trebling of the vehicular population and the number of trips made. Going by the simple formula, it seems the speed of the vehicles on the road would be lesser than even 5 kmph. But that will not happen,“ CTEST founding president MN Sreehari said.
 
 He explained that the BDA has taken into consideration the expanded network of Metro services in the city , integrated services of BMTC and Namma Metro. The BDA 2031 plan insists there has to be 211 km of Metro lines, along with light or mono rail and integration of all modes of public transport modes.
 
 According to BDA's earlier development plans, speed of traffic movement in the city speed has reduced from 18 kmph in 2008 to 11 kmph in 2015. In two years, it has dipped to an average of 8 kmph.
 
 The BDA has estimated that if BMTC doubles its bus fleet, its ridership will be half of what it is now. The agency's reasoning is that more and more Bengalureans will be owning private vehicles or taking Metro. BMTC puts its current ridership at 48 lakh and fleet strength at 6,200.
 
 Bengaluru's vehicular population is 66.3 lakh.
 
 TIMES VIEW
 
 That the average traffic speed in Bengaluru has more than halved in just eight years, reveals two factors bedevilling road users in the past decade: An exponential increase in the number of new vehicles and the lack of preparedness on the part of the government to remove bottlenecks as soon as gridlocks start surfacing. High traffic density is the bane of every big city, and Bengaluru is getting a taste of this urban malady only in recent years. The best way out of the traffic mess is to integrate all modes of transport and make urban commuting seamless. The bigger problem -an ever-burgeoning number of new vehicles being added to the city's roads -could be tackled by widening carriageways within the given grid and having smaller and effective flyovers.
 
