JAIPUR: State merit list (combined) for PG medical courses issued by the health department has brought happiness for MBBS doctors working in government hospitals (in service doctors), while the fresher candidates (who have not worked in government hospitals) looked dejected. 

 The   for PG courses took out a   to express their resentment over the merit list. "My all Rajasthan rank is 123 in NEET from which I can get a descent branch of my choice for PG course. But, as the in-service doctors get incentive marks, my rank has gone above 700," said Dr Manoj Bheri, an MBBS doctor, who is not an in-service doctor.
 
 He was among the fresher doctors, who participated in the march. They claimed there is hardly any fresher doctor in top 200 ranking in merit list. "The in-service doctors get incentive marks calculated on the mark they secured in NEET. If an in-service doctor has served in rural or difficult areas, he gets 10% incentive marks. If he has served for two years, he gets 20% incentive marks on the total marks he secured in NEET. Also, for three years, he gets 30% incentive marks. In the process of giving incentives to the in-service doctors, we have not found any place in merit list," a protesting fresher MBBS doctor said. 
 
 Now, Rajasthan Medical College Teachers Association (RMCTA) extended support to protesting fresher candidates on Monday. In a letter, the RMCTA has asked the government to move   to ensure that only those inservice candidates get benefit who have worked in notified remote and difficult areas. 
 
 The agitating doctors claimed that they had recieved RTI reply from the government mentioning that no list has been notified as remote and difficult PHCs in the state. 
 
 However, the health department officials denied the allegation. "We have complete government approved list of remote and difficult areas. We have not given incentives to those in-service doctors, who have worked in primary health centres or community health centres situated in district headquarters, tehsil headquarters or which come under Nagar palikas. The in-service candidates, who have worked in sub-tehsils or gram panchayats have been given the benefit of incentives as they comes under remote and difficult areas," Dr OP Thankan, additional director (gazetted) said, adding that the merit list has been prepared in compliance with the court's order.
 
 The health department officials claimed that the new ditrection of giving time-bound incentives to in-service doctors will help in filling vacant posts in rural areas. Officials said that still 1459 posts are still lying vacant in rural areas.
 
 Besides, the in-service doctors, who fought for their rights in the court, looked happy. "Recently, the government had issued directions of giving only 10% incentives marks to in-service doctors irrespective to the time an in service doctor has spent in difficult and remote areas. We challenged the government order in the High Court appealing that   and Medical Council of India has advocated for incentive marks from 10% to 30%. The High Court ordered to the government to give incentive of marks upto 30%," Dr Jitendra Bagaria, an in-service doctor said.
 
 Another in-service doctor   said, "The MBBS doctors, who are posted in remote and difficult areas, sacrificing a lot. In such areas, there is always a problem in getting even basic necessity of life. 
 
 After completing MBBS, there are not much doctors who opt for government job in rural areas as the job is quite tough in such difficult and remote areas. We fought for the cause as the in-service doctors should get incentive marks depending on the duration of service they have completed in these areas." 
 
