Cleared/Ali

 Coimbatore: An assistant professor of Tirupur Government Arts College was found murdered at her residence at IOB Colony near Irugur on early Friday morning. The murderer has sprayed red chilli powder and stole seven sovereigns of gold chain from the 38-year-old victim. 
 
 S Latha, 38, of IOB Colony near Irugur, was pursuing PhD in Botany and was working as an assistant professor in Government Arts College in Tirupur. Police said Latha married Sivalingam, 40, a native of Tirunelveli district, six years ago. Sivalingam is working as the technical assistant at the Bharatiar University in Coimbatore and the couple had four-year-old son. 
 
 The couple had separated four years ago due to misunderstanding and Sivalingam has been staying in the university staff quarters. Latha was staying along with her parents and son at Ram Nagar in Irugur. Latha borrowed a housing loan and bought a new house at IOB Colony two months ago and she was staying alone. Latha’s parents were taking care of her son Sanjay.
 
 Latha did not come out of her house till 7.30am on Friday. When her neighbours went to the house, they found her murdered. The body was burnt inside the bedroom and the locals informed the city police control room. Immediately, a team from Singanallur police station rushed to the spot and held inquiry.
 
 Deputy Commissioner of police (law&order) S Lakshmi conducted inquiry with neighbours. Police said the murderer had slit her throat using a sharp weapon and burnt the body inside the bedroom on early Friday morning.
 
 Police said the front door of the house was remained opened. So, some known person only might have entered the house and fought with her. If professional criminals had entered the house, they won’t leave any gold ornaments from the crime scene. But the murderer had taken away only seven sovereigns of gold chain. But a pair of ear studs and a gold chain the victim was wearing were not stolen. The professional criminals won’t spend time at the crime scene to burn the body after the  . So, police believe that only a known person would have murdered her. 
 
 Police added that the murderer had sprayed red chilli powder on the steps of the house and window also to divert the police. A sniffer dog was pressed into service and it ran few metres from the house and returned to the crime scene. Finger print experts and forensic science experts also visited the crime scene and lifted few finger prints.
 
 The Singanallur police registered a case under section 302 (murder), 380 (theft) and 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence or giving false information to screen offender) of the IPC. A special team has been formed to nab the murderer.
 
 
