Nagpur: ‘Let your voice be heard’ was the slogan for Coco Cola Youth Speak Forum 2017, and it endeavoured to help youngsters understand and adopt sustainable development goals (SDG) by way of changing themselves. Organized by AIESEC, the one-day forum was held at Persistent Systems, IT Park on Sunday. 

 Dancers Shambhavi Kumar and Vrushank Ranghatate opened the forum by performing on classical and contemporary tunes. AIESEC Nagpur president Parikshit Waghela then took to stage, interacting with the audience, where he underlined the main values behind becoming a leader — becoming solution-oriented, self-aware, world citizen and empowering others.
 
 Javelin thrower Devendra Jajaria, the first Indian Paralympian to win two gold medals at the Paralympics, was the first guest speaker at the forum. Jajaria lost his left hand at the age of eight, owing to electric current. “Despite this, my mother would insist that I should go out and play with other children. That day has made me who I am,” he said, while discussing his journey. While talking of his interest in javelin throw during 10th class, he said, “I didn’t want anyone to call me weak. So, I tried to prove my ability in the game. People used to ask why I played despite disability,” he said, expressing happiness. “A man wins through his heart and loses through his heart,” Jajaria said, before concluding his session.
 
 Social activist and educationist Urmi Chakravorty, who started the group Nagpur Circle of Moms, addressed the crowd on decent jobs and economic growth. “Marks are just a number. You are your own brand,” she said, while talking about different jobs and constant learning. She also shared a list of 10 most lucrative careers and said that value, facts, team, dedication and research were needed to be successful.
 
 Host Mitesh Goyal then took a fun quiz with the delegates. Founder of not-for-profit fund raising platform Crowdera, Chetan Jain was the next speaker at the forum. Talking of his company, he said, “I decided that whether we earn revenue or not, I want to keep helping people forever. We had no revenue model,” he said, adding that his enterprise has already touched 30,000 lives so far and wants to touch 100,000 lives by 2020. The platform aligns with non-profits to tackle world hunger, quality of education, global health, human rights and so on.
 
 Acid attack survivor Pragya Prasun from Bangalore spoke at the event. Prasun works for rehabilitation of acid attack victims. She spoke on legal rights and gender equality. Post the forum, delegates met nearly 350 children from shelter homes and conducted mentoring sessions with them.
 
 
