GURUGRAM: Thirty-two kilograms is a lot of gold but when it comes in the form of hundreds of pieces of jewellery distributed in over 800 pouches, it's a treasure that poses major logistical challenges.

 The robbers who carried out the heist at a   office in the city on February 9 didn't appear to have factored in the nature of their loot. This, police said, was the main reason why most of the gold was recovered when the gang of eight was busted on Saturday. They had not been able to immediately find buyers for scores of gold chains, bracelets, earrings and various other ornaments.The robbers wore a few chains on themselves as they scouted for buyers, but nearly the entire loot was put into plastic containers and stowed, first in the DLF-3 paying guest facility where the four arrested men lived, and then in the booty of a Verna car that belongs to the main accused. When police intercepted the car on Saturday , they found 30kg of the stolen gold intact, though 48 hours had passed from the time of the crime.
 
 This was one of several flaws in the execution of the robbery by the group of novice robbers, who otherwise earned a living through bitpart property deals and tried their luck at cricket betting.That is how the ringleader, a man called Devender who was seen in CCTV cameras showing his Aadhaar card to the guard at the entry to the Manappuram office on New Railway Road, had lost Rs 20 lakh in December. He got together his PG pals and a group of four men from Kanpur to help him with the heist but left behind a trail that was easy to pick up.
 
 Devender was brought to Gurgaon from Ahmedabad on Saturday night, police said.The cops had tracked him to a room in Lemon Tree Hotel, where he had checked in with a SpiceJet airhostess. Unable to find a big buyer in Gurgaon, Devender had flown to Ahmedabad to strike a deal for the stolen gold. But his Aadhaar card led the cops to him before that.
 
 The three others arrested are his PG mates --Manoj Sai ni, Devender's cousin Bijender and Vikas Gupta. But the four men from Kanpur who went back after the heist, possibly with a few items from the loot, have not yet fallen into police's hands. A police team is in Kanpur with Gupta, who is from Kidwai Nagar there, to track them down.
 
 Devender and the three others were remanded to police custody for four days. Police have also seized two bikes used by the group to get to the gold finance firm's office and escape.
 
 According to Sumit Kuhar, DCP (crime), three teams have been dispatched to Uttar Pradesh in search of the four other people, who have been known to be from the place. “Devender was nabbed before he could meet a buyer,“ he said.
 
