NEW DELHI:   are fast increasing in India with over 5 crore people suffering from the disorder, the highest in Southeast Asia and Western Pacific region, which includes China, according to WHO. 

 The latest assessment by the UN agency shows that China and India are by far the worst affected countries, accounting for nearly 50% of the total 322 million people living with   across the world.
 
 Data shows that the total estimated number of people living with depression globally increased by 18.4% between 2005 and 2015.
 
 Apart from depression, anxiety — another major reason for suicides in India and other middle income countries — is also highly prevalent in both India and China. About 3.8 crore people in India suffered from anxiety disorders in 2015, with a prevalence rate of 3%.
 
 The data shows 78% of global suicides occurred in low- and middle-income countries, whereas suicide accounted for close to 1.5% of all deaths worldwide, placing it among the top 20 leading causes of death in 2015.
 
 India accounted for the highest estimated number of suicides in the world in 2012, according to a WHO report published in 2014 which found that one person commits suicide every 40 seconds globally.
 
 Both depression and anxiety were also found to be far more common in women than in men. Prevalence varies by WHO region, from a low of 2.6% among males in the Western Pacific region to 5.9% among females in the African region. In Southeast Asia region, of which India is a member, prevalence rate is over 5% in women, whereas close to 4% men suffer from depressive disorders.
 
 The data was part of a WHO report titled ‘Depression and Other Common Mental Disorders — Global Health Estimates’. Depression is also the leading cause of disability worldwide, and is a major contributor to the overall global burden of disease, WHO said.
 
 For depressive disorders, WHO said total Years Lived with Disability (YLD) in India was 7.1% of total YLD, and for anxiety disorders its YLD was 2.5% of total YLD.
 
 Last August, the Rajya Sabha passed the   Bill 2013, which provides for protection and promotion of rights of persons with mental illness during the delivery of healthcare in institutions and in the community. The health ministry also came up with a   in 2014 which aims to reduce the treatment gap by providing universal access to mental healthcare through increased funding and human resources.
 
