THRISSUR: The Judicial first class magistrate of Wadakkanchery Sreedevi today rejected the bail application of P Krishna Das, chairman and managing trustee of the Nehru College of Educational and Charitable Trust. Krishna Das and four others associated with the   were arrested on Monday on charges of assaulting Shaheer  , who was a student of the Nehru Law Academy, Ottappalam.

  The magistrate has also rejected the bail applications of the PRO of the Nehru law academy ,  . and the physical education teacher Govindankutty. However, the magistrate granted bail to the administrative manager Sukumaran, who is the sixth accused in the case. The magistrate had earlier granted conditional bail to the legal adviser of the Nehru Group of Institutions Suchithra. She was released on Tuesday evening from the women’s prison, Viyyur, where she was lodged on Monday night.
 Krishna Das, Valsalakumar and Govindankutty were lodged in the Viyyur jail.
 
 The magistrate upheld the argument of the prosecutor T R Manoj Kumar that granting bail to them will affect the investigation of the case as they were influential people and will be able to influence the witnesses. The prosecutor pointed out that Shoukhathali was scared even to file a complaint about his assault till he left the Law Academy. He is now studying at a law college at Kolappulli near Shoranur. The prosecution has filed a petition to get Krishna Das and others into police custody for further questioning and collection of evidence. The magistrate will consider the application soon.
 
 According to the complaint filed by Shoukhathali, he was assaulted by the accused on January 3, as a retaliatory measure for the complaint sent by him to the Chief Minister against the college management in connection with a fund collection drive at the college.
 He had alleged that he was taken from the Law Academy, Lakkidi to the  , at Pambady in an auto saying the Krishna Das wanted to talk to him. Shoukhathali alleged that he was tortured at the Pambady college. The student alleged that he forced to sign in documents confessing that he had ragged five students, and to withdraw the complaint he had given to Chief Minister.
  
  Krishna Das and some of the other accused in this case are also arraigned as accused in the case relating to the unnatural death of Jishnu Pranoy on January 6. Interestingly, the arrest has been made on the day when the family of Jishnu had threatened to launch indefinite fast in front of the office of the DGP in Thiruvananthapuram to protest against the delay in the arrest of the accused in the Jishnu death case. The police and government had to face a series of criticisms for the delay in the arrest of the accused as the court had granted only anticipatory bail to Krishna Das.
 
