NOIDA: Relief is in store for as many as 50,000 homebuyers across 70 group housing projects in Noida and Greater Noida as chief minister   has issued a slew of instructions to the authorities of the twin cities to ensure they get their flats in the next two months. These projects are on the verge of completion.

 The chief minister’s directives came at a meeting with the three-member cabinet committee of ministers, and developers and top administrators from Noida, Greater Noida and   authorities in Lucknow on Tuesday.
 
 Officials told TOI these 50,000 homes are almost ready, but the projects have not received completion certificate from the respective authority because the builders owe it a lot of money. The authorities have been asked to recover that cost and make the flats available to buyers and builders have been asked to rope in co-developers and finish their incomplete projects.
 
 At the meeting, the   also directed officials of the three authorities to address the legitimate demands of the builders, including that of the Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Association of India (Credai), which has offered its support to help complete pending group housing projects of Amrapali group.
 
 Authorities have been directed to hire realty experts as consultants to carry out an audit of all critical projects in the two cities within two months to determine the physical and financial status of each project, sources said.
 
 The CM further promised homebuyers of Jaypee group that the developer will deliver 600 flats every month, starting November this year, as communicated to the cabinet committee of three ministers — Satish Mahana, Suresh Rana and   — that was sent to Noida recently to see how to help aggrieved buyers. Nearly 32,000 buyers are awaiting their homes to be delivered by this developer.
 
 The chief minister’s meeting comes close on the heels of the Supreme Court’s recent stay order on Jaypee group’s insolvency plea and then directing it to deposit Rs 2,000 crore.
 
 The cabinet committee of three ministers had on August 31 said homebuyers of Amrapali and Jaypee groups will not have to pay another penny till their residential units are completed. 
 
 The ministers had promised nearly 45,000 homebuyers in Amrapali group’s projects across Noida and Greater Noida that construction of stalled projects of the developer will start within a month and completed within two years.
 
 Asked about the dues owed to the two authorities and how the same will be recovered from developers, officials of Greater   said they will be adopting a part completion formula similar to that initiated by Noida Authority on August 24.
 
 Credai has lauded the CM’s directions “in the interest of homebuyers”. “The industry is looking to facilitate stalled projects,” said Credai chairperson Getamber Anand.
 
 
