NASHIK: Tension is mounting among the aspirants keen to fight the   Municipal Corporation elections as none of the political parties has announced the names of its official nominees. This is despite the fact that Thursday is the last day for withdrawal of nominations for the polls slated on to take place on May 24.

 All political parties maintained secrecy in announcing their official nominees and giving party symbols. Apparently the last moment ticket distribution would minimize intra-party squabbles among the aspirants and their supporters. 
 
 The sources, however, said that many of those who have filed nominations will contest as independents even if they are not given the tickets by their parties. 
 
 The Bhartiya Janata Party,  , Congress and the Nationalist Congress Party are facing a tough time in selecting candidates for the polls. 
 
 None of them has released the names of candidates fearing rebellion and also to keep the doors open for all ‘eligible’ people who are willing to join the party in the ‘nick’ of time.
 
 So far 781 people have filed nominations for the 84 seats in the corporation. A clear picture on which party is contesting in how many seats and has fielded whom will be available only after Thursday. 
 
 The BJP, riding on the success in municipal councils, corporations and even in gram panchayats in the rural parts of Maharashtra, has suddenly found itself as one of the most sought after parties in the city.
 
 In the last civic elections the party did not have any seat. But in the course of time four corporators who had won from local front had joined the BJP. This year many have sought tickets from the party. Unable to pacify everybody, the party chose to keep its list of candidates under the wraps. This will also help the party easily accommodate those rejected by opposition parties and had potential to win the elections. 
 
 The Shiv Sena has also not declared its final list. The party has taken the elections seriously since it is the home town of its minister for cooperatives Dada Bhuse. It is fighting a bitter battle against BJP more than any others. 
 
 The Congress and the  , which hold better grounds in the corporation given their penetration in the minority community which controls 64 seats across 16 prabhags, find themselves in a tight spot after the rebels joined Janata Dal and Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul Muslimeen.
 
 Political observers said the scenario of the parties contesting elections will be clear only after the official time of withdrawal from elections ends at 3 pm on Thursday.
 
