NEW DELHI:   would have wiped off the occupants of the entire apartment block had the police not reached there on time. The rescue and evacuation operation lasted an hour to save residents from his wrath.

 A team led by Madhu Vihar SHO Manish Joshi rushed to the spot after receiving a call about an armed man having entered the society.
 
 When they reached, they found   Matta lying in a pool of blood near the guard room. By then, the accused had rushed upstairs to kill more people. By the time the policemen cops reached the third floor, Rahul had already stabbed one of the neighbours and entered another flat.
 
 “We feared that he may have taken some hostages in the third flat (number 36), so we decided to play safe. The cops engaged him in conversation and tried to calm him down, but the man refused to listen to them,” said DCP (east) Omvir Singh, who supervised the operation.
 
 Their suspicion became confirmed upon seeing the house owner, V K Sharma, in the balcony. Rahul was hurling abuses at the policemen and the entire society. “Sabko Maar doonga. Koi nahi bachega (I will kill everyone. No one will be left alive).”
 
 The cops tried to make him feel guilty by telling him how didn’t stop even after murdering his  . They said his mother was waiting for him and that he should come out and apologise. “I asked him to drop the gun and not hurt anyone. We said he won’t be arrested if he said sorry, but he was in a different mood altogether,” said a policeman.
 
 He had knocked on the doors of three other flats, but the occupants— Kapoors and Sharmas — didn't open.
 
 Meanwhile, a team began to evacuate the other flats in the block. Minutes later, the cops smelled gas and decided to break open the door. However, Rahul struck the matches as soon as they entered and four sub-inspectors got blown back. Three cops got thrown in the balcony and they were brought down using ladders. Rahul tried to jump off the balcony, but the cops managed to hold him and bring him down the stairs.
 
 
