CHENNAI: The   verdict in the   means V K   was convicted for the fourth time in a corruption case. It also means she has equalled her deceased friend J Jayalalitha who too was convicted four times. On Tuesday, however,   escaped conviction, as the SC chose to hold that the appeals against her would stand abated since she died during pendency of the case.

 Jayalalithaa and Sasikala’s rendezvous with cases started in June 1996 when Subramanian Swamy filed a corruption complaint against them in Chennai. Since then, 46 cases were registered against Jayalalithaa, Sasikala, the latter’s relatives and AIADMK ministers. 
 
 The first conviction came in the Pleasant Stay Hotels case on February 2, 2000 when Jayalalithaa was found guilty of giving nod for buildings in the Kodaikanal hill range in violation of norms. She was handed a two-year jail term. The case did not feature Sasikala.
 
 In the two TANSI land deals cases, a special court found both Jayalalithaa and Sasikala guilty on October 9, 2000, and sentenced them to two years and three years in jail each in the two cases. On December 4, 2001, the Madras high court acquitted both and it was upheld by the Supreme Court on November 24, 2003.
 
 Bengaluru special court judge John Michael D’Cunha’s judgment on September 27, 2014 convicting Jayalalithaa, Sasikala, J Ilavarasi and V N Sudhagaran in the assets case was the biggest blow of all these verdicts. It marked the fourth conviction for Jayalalithaa, who was taken straight to the Parapana Agrahara jail in Bengaluru from the court and spent 21 days there before being enlarged on bail by the Supreme Court.
 
 Though Jayalalithaa and Sasikala now suffer four convictions, this is the first time the SC has passed a final conviction order against one of them. While the verdict means nothing to Jayalalithaa though hers is not an honourable acquittal, in the case of Sasikala it ends her political journey. For the entire four-year sentence period, and then for another six years, she cannot contest in any elections nor hold a public post. If she manages to hang on to the AIADMK general secretary post, she could continue with it.
 
 
