INDORE: Expressing disappointment over Pakistan’s absence from South Asian Speakers’ Summit, the Inter-Parliamentary Union (IPU) president and Bangladesh MP   said “differences” between the governments should not stop dialogue among parliamentarians.

  “Of course it is not unusual for governments to have differences, but the IPU believes that political dialogue is absolutely critical. It’s a matter of disappointment that we don’t have anyone from parliament of  ,” Chowdhury said while addressing the inaugural session of the summit on ‘achieving sustainable development goals’. “When governments stop talking, parliamentarians should continue (doing so). This is what IPU stands for.” 
 
 Pakistan had declined India’s invitation to the summit in a move that seemed to be a retaliatory act after India boycotted a Commonwealth Parliamentary Union (CPU) meet in Islamabad to protest against Pakistan’s decision to not invite the speaker of the Jammu & Kashmir assembly, in 2015.
 
 “Pakistan is not here; the reasons are best known to them. As a neighbouring nation, we would havefelt better if they were here,”   national assembly speaker Abdul Raouf Ibrahimi said. 
 
 He also wondered why Islamabad would decide to abstain from a meeting that aimed to address poverty, development, environment and gender concerns in South Asia. 
 
 On Thursday, Lok Sabha Speaker   had said: “If Pakistan attends the summit, it would definitely be a good thing, but the decision to desist from attending the summit is their decision.” 
 
 Talking to TOI on Saturday at the summit venue, Chowdhury said countries impose sanctions against each other, but the “sanction regime should not apply to parliamentarians”. The two-day summit is being attended by Afghanistan national assembly speaker Raouf Ibrahimi, Bangladesh parliament speaker Dr Shirin Sharmin Chaudhury, Bhutan national assembly speaker Jigme Zangpo, Maldives parliament speaker Abdulla Maseeh Mohamed, Nepal parliament speaker Onasari Gharti and Sri Lanka parliament speaker Karu Jayasuriya. 
 
 The delegates took part in three sessions discussing ways to identify resources for sustainable development goals, gender equality and dealing effectively with climate change and natural disasters. 
 
 
 Afghanistan came down heavily on “Pakistan-sponsored terrorism”, saying that if Islamabad does not change its policy then terrorism could become a big threat for Pakistan itself. “It has been established that rulers of Pakistan support terrorism openly and the country’s policy on terrorism is also not in the interest of other countries of the region,” said Raouf Ibrahimi.
 
