HYDERABAD: The Telangana government's proposal to hike tuition fee for post-graduate (PG) medical courses has forced thousands of qualified candidates to apply to Karnataka-and Maharashtra-based institutions.With ambiguity over the fee structure in Telangana, candidates have started applying for the web counselling process in other states. The tuition fee for private colleges in   is `6.60 lakh. Whereas, in Maharashtra, it varies from `6 lakh to `24 lakh depending on the course and colleges selected by students.

 “I applied for the web counselling process in Karnataka. I am not sure what fees the Telangana government will fix, but I wanted to keep my options open because I am sure that I can secure a seat in a private college in Karnataka,“ said  , a candidate.
 
 According to sources, the Telangana government is mulling following AP which enforced a steep hike in tuition fees for PG med courses in government as well as private colleges.
 
 As per the revised fee fixed by the AP government, tuition fee under convenor quota for pre-clinical degree or diploma courses is `3.60 lakh, para-clinical degree and diploma courses and clinical degree or diploma courses is `6.90 lakh annually .While the fee for pre-clinical degree and diploma courses and para-clinical degree and diploma courses in managament quota is same as convenor quota, the fee for clinical degree and diploma courses is `24.20 lakh.
 
 It is not just low fees in Karnataka, but also stipend offered by a few private colleges that has become a major attraction.R Alekya, is one among such candidates. “I have already completed first phase of web counselling in Karnataka. A few colleges offer stipend of up to `30,000 per month. Therefore, I won't mind paying `6.60 lakh tuition fee since I can recover it from stipend,“ said Alekya.
 
 A few students are trying their luck in Maharashtra-based colleges as they don't want to compromise on their area of specialisation. “I am keen to pursue a diploma in paediatrics. I applied in colleges in both Maharashtra and Karnataka. It is not just fees but also area of study that matters for me,“ said Shivani G, a candidate.
 
 Some students from the   (TJUDA) also met health minister   on Tuesday to raise their concerns. “ A few private colleges in AP are taking a bank deposit of up to `7 lakh from each candidate. We told the minister that this must not happen here,“ said Srinivas, advisor to TJUDA.
 
