NEW DELHI: PM   exhorted top bureaucrats on Friday to bring back the enthusiasm of their first five years in service, take as many risks and experiment with new ideas because they will never find a more receptive government than his on this score.
 
  Modi, who kept quiet through hours of presentation by groups of secretaries on 10 sectors, summed up the process with a decision that none of these groups would be disbanded at least for a year.
  
  ET spoke to those familiar with the details of PM Modi’s deliberations at the meeting with secretaries.
  
 He is also believed to have told the   to draw up a framework for implementing some of these suggestions in a time bound manner. All suggestions with financial implications would be sent to the finance ministry for consideration to be included in the budget.
  
  “He told us that many of you-...when you go back and see what you accomplished in your first five years...you are surprised that you actually did something like that. I want you to get that enthusiasm back,” an official present at the meeting told ET, quoting the PM. The PM, according to the official, was clear that his government will back any new   or experiment.
  
  “He (the PM) told us that officers can take all such risks under his government,” said an official present at the meeting.
  
  Secretary-level officials were divided across 10 sectoral groups, assisted by groups of joint secretaries. These groups clocked 16,000 hours of meetings and worked Sundays and holidays before drawing up their presentations for the PM. Modi and his   ministers sat through these presentations, which took place even on a Sunday. Officials said that after the presentations, PM would pose tough questions and many presentations ended up going back to the drawing board.
  
  PM Modi mentioned some of these ideas in his remarks, like the suggestion to use artificial intelligence. “He appreciated the idea but also said this must be juxtaposed with demographic dividend of our country’s population,” said an official.
  
  The PM also had an open discussion, allowing each secretary to speak. He himself threw in the idea of evening courts to reduce litigation time. “He recalled that the move had worked well in Gujarat as people could go and deal with their legal work after office hours,” an official present at the meeting told ET.
  
  Referring to one of the points made in a security-related presentation on how the use of dogs could be intensified to track explosives, the PM is believed to have said dogs can be used beyond just helping in crime detection, like in tracking missing people following natural disasters. He hoped the idea could be broadened, said an official.
  
  Similarly, the PM wanted top bureaucrats to think further on better utilisation of assets. He specifically pointed to rail coaches running empty and if ways could be found to use the resource better. In this connection, one of the senior bureaucrats also said the government should evaluate the “workability” of the 900-odd programmes and schemes it runs. “The feeling was that there is a need to assess whether these programmes are capturing their target population… to relook their reach and penetration,” said an official privy to the details.
  
  On education, the idea, which received some attention, was to open more Eklavya Model Schools. The group also felt English education should be promoted for better employment prospects. The key recommendation on health was focussed on a “medicine for all” campaign which is expected to be fleshed out in the coming months.
