CHENNAI: If populism is the road that Edappadi K Palaniswami’s government chooses to overcome the public bile against the Mannargudi family’s rule by proxy, the chief minister may be in for some rude shock as there is no way that the state exchequer can support him in his endeavour.

 Palaniswami has no other option than following the footsteps of former chief minister  , who had taken populism to dizzy heights, rolling out welfare schemes to the needy and the affluent alike, without any discrimination. As the state finances went to the dogs in the process, she turned a blind eye. The thinking in the present administration is that more doles should be rolled out to win the hearts of the agitated electorate. They are under compulsion to do so because while the MLAs who supported O Panneerselvam are being given heroes’ welcome, those who stood by the government are facing brickbats in their constituencies. 
 
 Palaniswami’s day one in CM’s office was an indication of what is in store for the days to come. He signed five orders – for closure of 500 Tasmac liquor shops, 50% subsidy for women to buy two-wheelers, increased marriage assistance to women, 5,000 houses for fishermen and hike in monthly allowance to unemployed youth.
 
 All these will strain the state finances further, which is saddled with a public debt of Rs 2.52 lakh crore. Tax collection has been hit badly, thanks to demonetization and the subsequent political turmoil in the state. About 20% of the tax revenue is normally mopped up in the last two months of the fiscal, but this year could be a disappointment. “A conservative estimate of the government after demonetisation is that there could be a shortfall of Rs 3,000 crore in sales tax revenue, primarily in stamp duty registration and motor vehicle sales tax. But by the end of the year, the shortfall could mount further and the state fiscal deficit may go above 3% of the GSDP, breaching the discipline prescribed under the Fiscal Responsibility Budget Management (FRBM) Act,” said a senior official.
 
 For the past several years, the government has not been able to meet the targeted revenue growth and had blamed frequent changes in fuel prices, said the official. Not many are aware of the impact of the Goods and   (GST) regime, which is all set to be ushered in, said   econometrist R Srinivasan. “There are many traders and manufacturers who have only paid excise duty and have not dealt with state tax department so far. With the GST, there may be swapping of tax payers between the Centre and state. State government must train the tax payers on the new system at the earliest,” he said.
 
