ALAPPUZHA: Alappuzha municipal council meeting on Monday witnessed unruly scenes with   and   councillors clashing over the suspension of four employees of the municipality in connection with the   issue.

 Later, six councillors, three each from LDF and UDF, were admitted to Alappuzha  .
 
 The special council meeting had on Friday suspended the engineering wing superintendent Prasanth Kumar, section clerk C M Suja, and office attenders P C Moly and Geevarghese from the service after the files regarding the construction of Lake Palace resort went missing from the municipal office. 
 
 On Monday morning, when the ruling UDF and opposition LDF councillors arrived to attend the municipal council meeting, the latter demanded the municipal chairman Thomas Joseph to reinstate the suspended employees. They said that the suspended employees did not have any role in the missing of files and they were made scapegoat by the chairman.
 
 The chairman then said that the suspension issue would be ta ken up after discussing the agenda of the council meeting. However, the LDF councillors reiterated their demand and they warned the chairman that without cancelling the suspension of the employees, they will not allow the council meeting to start.
 
 The chairman said it was not possible to give first preference to the suspension issue. Following this, the LDF councillors staged protest in the hall and shouted slogans against the chairman. Then the chairman said the council approved the suspension of the four employees. It provoked the LDF councillors and they clashed with the ruling front members. Six councillors were admitted to Alappuzha General   minor injuries.
 
 Opposition leader   said the chairman's act was onesided and the suspended employees did not have any role in the missing of files.
 
 “The superintendent reached the office four months ago and others were also not connected with the missing of the files. But the chairman used his discretionary powers for politicizing the issue and for political gains, “ he said.
 
 The employees under Kerala Municipal Corporation Staff Union (KMCSU-CITU) are observing a pen-down strike and the union decided to launch an indefinite strike after October 4 against the action.
 
