KOZHIKODE: IUML's 'belated' reaction against the 'state-sponsored terrorism' has irked the  , which believes that the party wakes up only when the  . 

 The party organised a rally here on Friday where the senior leaders lashed out at Centre and state governments for harassing Muslims by invoking draconian laws like the UAPA. IUML leaders, especially E T  , was in the forefront the campaign after the police initiated legal action against   and its managing director M M Akbar.
 
 But the party's detractors feel that the IUML has been keeping silence when the law was invoked earlier. The UDF government, of which IUML was a constituent, used the anti-terror law at many occasions, especially against dalits and tribals, but the party did not raise any voice.
 
 It has been pointed out that all the preachers who are facing legal action are Salafis. Shamsudeen Palath, against whom UAPA is charged,  , who faces charges of inciting communal feeling and M M Akbar belong to different Salafi groups in Kerala.
 
  Till recently IUML was silent on the plight Haneef Moulavi, the Salafi preacher who was picked up by Mumbai police on charges of 'radicalising' the Muslim youths who have suspectedly joined the Islamic State. Many believe that Haneef was neglected because he does not enjoy the support of any Salafi group.
 
 Samastha is upset because IUML did not show enthusiasm when the orphanages were targeted by the police when UDF was in power. Many orphanages were raided on charges of human trafficking. "In Akbar's instance there is a case for the police to enter the premises of Peace School. But what was the provocation to conduct raids in the orphanages? And why the IUML kept silent though it happened in institutions under League minister' asked a leader of one of Samastha's feeder organisations.
 
 In the past too Samastha has been uncomfortable with the IUML on the issues related to the Salafis. IUML had intervened to stall a campaign launched by the Samastha's feeder organisations against Salafism, organised in the backdrop of the suspected IS influence in the state.
 
 Addressing the rally on Friday, Panakkad Syed Hyder Ali Thagal had said moves are on in Kerala to frame religious preachers and scholars in false cases. Terming the Kerala police as a big failure, Thangal said in a state, which is ruled by CPM that had opposed UAPA in parliament and outside, draconian laws are being misused.
 
 The governments are robbing the constitutional rights of the citizens and things would lead to dangerous situation if the democratic and secular forces failed to intervene, Thangal said.
 
