In November last year, the   Grants Commission ( ) issued a notification asking authorities to promote healthy food on educational campuses. But the students of Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) have been protesting against the food quality and lack of variety in dishes at their messes and canteens much before the notification was issued. For outstation students in the city, getting good food at an affordable price is a big challenge. Plus, the substandard quality meals served in their institutes, make matters worse. 

 Finally, after various protests, including the one last week, it seems like the food on the SPPU campus might get healthier after all. Not just this, but there’s news that a sweet dish or egg curry will also be served once a week at the SPPU  . Though touted to be a permanent move, students have their doubts about implementation of this decision and feel that things will go back to square one soon, just like several times in the past.
 
 
 If students are to be believed, quality of food served at the varsity’s   has been a constant issue. Apart from evoking regular protests, this has seen students taking to other unhealthier options outside the campus. Pratik Dama, a commerce student from the university, said, “There have been several instances when the food served has been substandard. Students have been protesting about the same and also writing frequently to the management, but none of this worked so far. The recent protest, however, seems to have had some effect. I only hope it brings long-lasting results.”
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Sources suggest that an increase in the number of students was another reason why eating at the mess wasn’t easy, with a major rush ensuing at most times. The university has also initiated the process to extend the mess service at two hostels on the campus. According to a university letter dated February 2, issued by SPPU registrar Dr Narendra M Kadu (a copy of which is with Pune Times), there will be a new mess at hostel number nine and the tender process for the same has also been initiated. This, students believe, will help ease the burden of accommodating more students at the central mess.
 
 
 Students are happy that the recent three-day protest drove the university to take stock of the situation. On February 2, day three of the protest, the varsity floated a tender inviting a new contractor for the refectory and calling for more student involvement in the mess committee. Shakti Madake, a management student, informed, “Previously too, there were students in the committee, but the representation wasn’t strong. Post the recent decision, more student representatives will be present to keep track of the situation and ensure better hygiene and quality of food.”
 
  
  
 
 There have been instances in the past, where changing the mess contractor hasn’t quite resulted in a (good) change in food quality. Satish Gore, a student at the university, said, “From what we’ve observed, after the matter is taken up with the authorities, they either give the existing contractor an ultimatum, or look for a replacement. Then, things change for good only for a few days, post which the situation goes back to square one. We hope the changes will be for the better this time.”
 
 However, Narendra Kadu, registrar, SPPU, claimed that the new tender is a ‘foolproof’ one. He said, “Students had an issue with the chappati quality served at the mess. We have changed contractors twice in the recent past based on students’ complaint. Contractors are supposed to quote for quality food and the tender is awarded to the one quoting a lesser amount. But that doesn’t mean that the contractor should compromise on food quality. This time we have tried to make the tender foolproof. In order to get the best quality food, we have also specified the type of wheat and quality/brand of oil to be used for food preparation.”
 
 
 The substandard quality of food is an issue plaguing students from other institutes as well. Meghnath Ingavale, a student of Fergusson College, resorts to eating outside food owing to the questionable quality of food being served at the college mess. He said, “The chappatis as well as the redundant menu were major turn-offs at our mess. I now pay and eat at the Gokhale Institute of Politics and Economics mess, where the quality is much better in comparison.”
 
  
  
 Despite the UGC notification about promoting healthy eating at the university and college campuses, the low hygiene standards and food quality at college messes are only turning students away, to opt for outside food. This has completely defeated the purpose of the circular. Pranav Bhandari, a management student, said, “We have to rely on outside food to meet our daily food needs. Not to forget, this also burns a hole in our pockets.” Echoing a similar sentiment, Shubham Gangarde, an engineering student from Wadia College, added, “Half-cooked, substandard food was a regular at the mess. Many students, including me, have been eating at private messes. But there are others who are relying on a lot of   as well. How does this justify the UGC’s circular to universities?”
 
 
