KOHIMA: Even as the stand-off surrounding chief minister  's resignation continues, the   ( ) has played a new card, threatening fast unto death if Zeliang does not step down. The total bandh in the state continues, throwing life out of gear. 

 The NTAC will organize a public rally here on February 17 to amplify its demand for Zeliang's resignation. The rally will be held at the Old MLA Hostel Junction at 11am and will be followed by the next plan in its strategy to mount pressure - a fast unto death.
 
 February 17 is also the date by which the NTAC and the   (JCC) want all legislators to withdraw support to Zeliang. In a statement, the NTAC and JCC warned that if the MLAs fail to comply with the demand, the respective tribal bodies will prevent the MLAs from entering their jurisdiction in the next election. Nagaland has 60 legislators and goes to the polls in early 2018.
 
 The NTAC has asked all tribal hohos and the people to support the "cause" of the Nagas. So far, the   (APO), the Angami Youth Organization (AYO), the Ao Senden, the Lotha Hoho and the Chakhesang Public Organization (CPO) have called upon their respective legislators to resign. 
 
 In support of the NTAC's decision to observe a state-wide bandh, the Angami Youth Organization (AYO) decided to continue its bandh as well. However, AYO has exempted fire services, hospitals, the SP office and police stations, banks, students, paramilitary forces, power substations, sanitary vehicles, business establishments and eateries, public transport, central offices, PHE field staff for water supply, private vehicles, pedestrians and the media from the purview of the bandh.
 
 On Thursday, the bandh will be imposed from 9am to 3pm.
 
 Meanwhile, the NTAC met governor PB Acharya on Wednesday and apprised him of the situation in the state. It said there is a breakdown of constitutional machineries in the state, adding that the assurance given by the governor to an NTAC delegation on February 3 - that those responsible for the deaths in the February 2 violence will be punished - has not been acted upon. 
 
 The NTAC submitted a memorandum to the governor, also addressing it to the President, Prime Minister and Union home minister. Blaming the chief minister of being "adamant" and not abiding by the wishes of the people, the NTAC said the situation is deteriorating every day and could lead to "catastrophic consequences".
 
 The NTAC and JCC have warned the state government and the governor that despite all efforts to maintain calm, volunteers are losing patience. In the event of any eventuality, the government and the governor would be held responsible.
 
 
