NEW DELHI:   would not be amiss to think that for the first time he will walk in to a title defence against the 13-time World champion   as favourite when the two superstars collide at the SmackDown Live exclusive pay-per-view,   on July 23. While Orton seemed to enjoy the home field advantage at Money in the Bank, a loss for The Viper at his hometown did come as a surprise. 

 Credit to Mahal for being an entertaining champion. He has improved his promos, he is killing the menacing ‘Monster Heel’ look, his in-ring exploits have also been on the rise and the Singh Brothers too have done their part well. And with   bringing back the Punjabi Prison match, it validates that Mahal is doing a good job. Great Khali competed in the second-ever Punjabi Prison match but he lost, while the first-ever was between The Undertaker and The Big Show. So, it makes sense for Mahal to open the account for India origin wrestlers in the Punjabi Prison Match at Battleground and go on to retain the WWE title. 
 
 Talking exclusively to TOI sports, Mahal revealed what all is he doing in preparation for the big match. “I know it is going to be a long gruelling match because it is not only one cage; there are two cages,” said Mahal. “I am working a lot on my endurance. If you look at my Instagram page I have posted work out videos working on endurance, stuff like sledge, body weight exercises. I know I will have to climb out of at least one of the two cages, so I am doing lot of pull ups, lot of grip exercises; mostly it is conditioning because I know it going to be a very long, tough and hard fought match. It is basically less bodybuilding exercise and more conditioning work for now,” added the 31-year-old. 
 
 During the SmackDown’s go-home show for Battleground, Orton has stated that by choosing the Punjabi Prison Match stipulation, the champion had let go off the only advantage he enjoyed over Orton and that was the involvement of the Singh brothers. With Mahal locked inside two cages with Orton, the brothers may not have the same impact as they had at MITB and Backlash. For Mahal though, it is not much of a concern. 
 
 “That is fine I have already beat Randy Orton twice,” said Mahal. “99 per cent of it is mental and I know am inside Randy’s head, if you see the last couple of weeks; he is very frustrated and is very angry and that is when he makes mistakes. You saw that in Money in the Bank. It was his temper that cost him the match, he let his emotions get the best of him, right now he is very emotional, he is very angry and when he is distracted he is very easy to beat,” he said. 
 
 On being asked about choosing the stipulation Mahal said it was about time he fought on his own terms. “I choose the Punjabi Prison Match because the match at MITB was in St. Louis which is Orton’s home town. It was on his terms; his father was sitting in the front row. So, when I had the chance, I wanted my match on my terms and my terms are Punjabi Prison match. It was invented by the Great Khali and he has given me some tricks and tips to how to win the match and I am more than ready to defend my title,” signed off the champ. 
 
