When I had decided that I would quit medicine and pursue a career in administration, my friends had mocked me. First, it was a very unfashionable switch, medicine was a noble profession, and then everyone believed that being a Kashmiri youngster my dream of joining the bureaucracy of India would soon come crashing down as Indian institutions were by default prejudiced against Kashmiri Muslims. But for me it was not about choosing the right career. It was a part of the larger search to find meaning in the chaos around.

 I came from a family of fence sitters. Right from the onset of militancy we had tried to be equidistant from the militants and soldiers, when in an atmosphere of war it was a rather awkward thing to do. People boldly took sides for the sake of survival. For ordinary people there was no free will at all. Some of our neighbours became militant sympathizers and bought rations for them. Some became friends with the army, mainly because it gave them access to cheap goods in the CSD canteens.
 
 The more intelligent ones enjoyed both worlds. But very few people stayed aloof and the non-partisan citizens wrongly believed that innocent bystanders would not be hurt in the 'just' war.   had a divine sanction, we believed in those days, and we were quite confident that god was on our side. What we had forgotten was that turmoil, a euphemism for a bloody war, would not distinguish good men from bad men, armed from unarmed, cowards from courageous and combatants from bystanders. We wrongly expected soldiers to spare our elderly men and women when they were on a beating spree in the hamlet. We hoped that militants would first judiciously inquire, before hanging civilians alleged to have gone against the cause.
 
 I had seen at close quarters the ruthlessness with which power was exercised by those who had suddenly got hold of our lives, and I wanted to change that system. It was a quixotic aspiration but, nevertheless, it was there.
 
 That night when 'unidentified gunmen' came to kill my father, he was watching the evening news on an old black-and-white television kept in our newly refurbished kitchen. Dinner was about to be served when two tall non-Kashmiri-looking young men knocked at the door. Terrified, my mother gathered her nerves and unlatched the door; two men, smiling, appeared in the doorway at once. They walked in with their boots on, as combatants were not expected to remove their shoes, asked for a glass of water and kept standing; my father also stood there out of courtesy.
 
 Even though they frequented our neighbourhood, gunmen rarely came to our house. We were a happy household because we were indifferent to war. But we were known to be a meek household where children cried on seeing gunmen, so we had not been extended the privilege of friendship by both soldiers and militants. We never complained. As was the pattern with all civilian killings by unidentified gunmen, my father was asked to walk to the next room so that something confidential could be discussed. My mother knew that the other room always meant the other world; she guessed it well and politely said that whatever had to be discussed should be done in her presence, right there.
 
 The gunmen smiled and sipped water and then politely gave up the idea of a conversation and sought permission to leave. It was a gesture of courtesy to seek ceremonial permission to leave and this cheered up my mother. She thought that they were actually friendly gunmen and this even tempted her to talk about her brother who was a celebrated commander. But she was wary because she wasn't sure if this name-dropping would help or if it was a safe thing to do with these armed strangers. So, my father walked ahead to see them off as part of the tradition to accompany guests for at least three steps towards the exit. It was also a reciprocation of the courtesy they had earlier displayed. But as the door was about to shut, the gunmen poked the barrel through the cleft; there was a click and two bullets hit his chest and one hit the television. Within seconds, my father was dead.
 
 He had been killed with all possible courtesy. Next morning, our village saw the first-ever protest against the 'unidentified gunmen'. My father was a renowned teacher and known as someone who was politically nonpartisan, soft-mannered and one who 'sweated in the presence of his elders'. This sweating was a cultural symbol of noble behaviour, and I had often seen pearls of perspiration on my father's forehead when he came across people whom he respected or was in awe of. He was a brilliant, self-made man, a polymath who spoke many languages. His killing had forced locals to do the unthinkable—to seek answers from those who ruled the streets at that time. His funeral procession was attended by people from all over the district; during those years of conflict the only symbol of a man's success was the size of his funeral crowd.
 
 The parting kiss on my father's cold forehead broke something inside me permanently. I couldn't believe that a person like him could also get killed. He had religiously followed the survival manual for bystanders. He was anonymous, he had no opinion on anything overtly political, and he was a very ordinary, unambitious family man. But for the first time in my life I realized that in a war there were no bystanders. There was no neutrality.
 
 
 
 
