PATNA: The JD (U) on Saturday decided to mobilise its maximum number of workers to help the state government in forming the world’s longest  , the main route of which will be around 3,000-km long and the sub routes around 8,000-km long, on January 21. The human chain, likely to be participated by around three crore people, has been planned in support of total prohibition in the state.

 At a joint meeting of the party’s state office-bearers and district chiefs, the JD (U) also decided to popularise different welfare schemes under the ‘Saat Nischay’ (seven resolves) programme of the CM among the public. The meeting was presided over by JD (U) state president Bashishtha Narayan Singh.
 
 In another resolution passed at the meeting, the party decided to hold workshops at district level to brief the party workers about different components of the ‘Saat Nischay’ programme, rights given to people under the Right to Public Grievance Redressal Act and benefits of other welfare schemes of Nitish government, so that workers could explain to common man the good works being done by the grand alliance government.
 
 Addressing the meeting, Singh asked the state office-bearers and district presidents to ensure active involvement of the all the party workers, including women, in forming the human chain. Highlighting the importance of the proposed human chain, Singh said the success of human chain would highlight the good works of JD (U) national president and chief minister Nitish Kumar.
 
 Singh also gave certain tips to the party office-bearers on how to motivate common people to join the human chain.
 
 Some senior party functionaries, including its Rajya Sabha members, were later assigned different districts to hold the district-level workshops. “Office-bearers of the party’s district committees, block committees, panchayat committees and all active members of the concerned district will participate in the district level workshops,” JD (U) state general secretary (headquarters) Navin Kumar Arya told TOI.
 
 Arya said former minister and party’s deputy leader in Assembly Shyam Rajak has been given the task of training the workers at the workshops in Vaishali and Samastipur districts. Rajya Sabha member   would train workers in Gopalganj, Siwan and Saran, while another Rajya Sabha member Ramnath Thakur in Darbhanga, Supual and Madhubani districts.
 
 Former Assembly speaker   would conduct workshops in Jamui, Sheikhpura and Nawada districts, while RS member RCP Singh would take charge of Patna and Nalanda districts. State president Singh would preside over the workshops in Buxar and Bhojpur districts. Similarly, RS member Kehkashan Parveen has been allotted Madhepura, Saharsa and Purnia districts.
 
