HYDERABAD: Three years after bifurcation of the state, the two Telugu states are yet to come to an amicable agreement on the division of 91 government corporations and companies resulting in chaos in many organizations. Both Telangana and Andhra Pradesh have not been able to iron out their differences on sharing of assets, liabilities and employees working in these institutions. The   that was given extension of term fourth time from September 1 has been conducting meetings with the representatives of two states to settle the contentious issues. While AP insists on sharing of all assets, Telangana has been contesting the ratio in the name of the AP Reorganisation Act. The committee met on Tuesday and Wednesday with officials from the  ,  ,  , and   present, but could not complete the process of asset sharing.

 With both states having different views on how the assets and employees of these entities should be divided, decisions are being delayed, leaving employees with a sense of uncertainty. “We have completed the process of distribution for about 69 corporations. But as there are serious differences between the two states with regard to the assets of RTC, AP Genco, Transco, CPDCL, AP Foods and Girijan Corporation, it would take two more months for these to be resolved,“ a member of the committee told TOI on condition of anonymity .
 
 With regard to employees, retirement has solved many problems. Out of the total 7,000 employees whose fate had to be decided, nearly 3,800 have retired in the last three years. As a result, about 3,000 employees are left waiting for the decision of the Sheela Bhide committee. This does not include the one lakh employees of the RTC whose division is still to be decided.
 
 The Union government had extended the tenure of the committee in 2015 and 2016 citing incompletion of the division. The Centre later extended the term of the committee till February 28, 2017. On September 1, the Centre once again extended the term of the committee for another six months. Retired IAS officers A K Goel and KV Rao and financial expert K Narasimha Murthy are other members of the committee.
 
