PUNE: The   (MES), Headquarters,  , has terminated its contract with a Delhi-based infrastructure and construction company over the delay in completion of the   of the Rs 382-crore new Command Hospital (Research & Referral) project near Military Hospital- Cardio Thoracic Center off Kondhwa Road in Pune. 

 The move comes after Pune district judge K K Jahagirdar on August 31 rejected the company's application challenging the MES’s notice for cancellation of the contract and seeking directions for an arbitration process. 
 
 “A competent board of the MES is assessing the risk and cost for the balance work regarding the project and will soon float a fresh tender to engage a new contractor,” an MES official, who did not wish to be named, told TOI on Friday. 
 
 Senior lawyer Krishna Ratnaparkhi, who represented the Chief Engineer, MES, HQ, SC and the Garrison Engineer (MES), said, “The company has the option of going in for an arbitration, post-cancellation of contract but, the same can happen only after a new contractor is engaged. So far, we haven’t received any intimation vis-a-vis arbitration or an appeal in higher court.”
 
 The ambitious hospital project was to be completed in three-and-a-half years since June 2013 and the MES had thrice given an extension to the contractor — Omaxe Infrastructure and Construction Limited — for completing the project. It finally served a notice on August 5, giving the company a fortnight’s time to either finish the project or face cancellation of contract. 
 
 The company had since moved the district court seeking a restrain on the cancellation move and directions for an arbitration process. 
 
 Omaxe Infrastructure argued that the contract agreement of January 22, 2013 carried a clause for arbitration before cancellation and that, the delay was due non-cooperation of the respondent (MES) authorities as they did not supply the drawings, reference points and the work front besides, delaying decisions and modifying drawings. 
 
 However, the court referred to the three extensions granted to the contractor and the fact that the project work had stopped for some time and observed that little was done by the contractor to inspire confidence among the respondents that the project will be completed soon. 
 
 It said that considering the public funds involved and the objective of the hospital catering to military persons, particularly injured soldiers, the MES cannot be expected to sit idle. 
 
 The court referred to the reports on the status of construction filed by government officials and experts and said, the same cannot be thrown away without consideration. “On the contrary, the applicant failed to show that he has started work in full wing but, unable to complete within the time due to non-cooperation of the respondents. 
 
 The court also upheld Ratnaparkhi’s argument that the MES rules for General Conditions of the Constructions provided for an arbitration only on completion of the work or termination of the agreement. 
 
 “No irreparable loss would be caused to the contractor if an order is not passed in his favour as he can seek compensation and opt for arbitration. On the other hand, a further delay in project will cause irreparable loss to the military people,” the court observed.
 
 
