NAVI MUMBAI: Water supply will take a big hit with   (MJP) planning to go on a strike from Monday, if the Devendra Fadnavis-led state government does not agree to the salary and pension demands of its staff as government employees. 

 MJP has been in-charge of the daily supply of drinking water operations across 25 urban and 27 rural areas in Maharashtra. Many government agencies, town planning bodies and municipal corporations such as Cidco, Panvel City Municipal Corporation, JNPT and Central railway largely rely on MJP for their daily supply.
 
 “Talks have been held on Friday between additional chief secretary and our senior officers and we are hopeful that our status as state government employees is restored, so that our salaries and pension benefits do not take a hit,” said Devendra C Landge, president of MJP Sanyukt Sangathan Sangarsha Samiti, a group that comprises 11 associations.
 
 Landge claimed the support of more than 50 MLAs and MPs for their cause. “We also protested in 2015 during the winter session of Nagpur session. But our demands have not yet been met,” he said.
 
 Projects have dried up since 2008, which means little earnings under the establishment and project head, that helped MJP employees to get their monthly salaries and pension benefits. “The Central projects also eluded us and only one project—National Rural Drinking Water Programme—is with us since 2008. But it is being implemented on a 50:50 basis by the local bodies and us,” said Landge. 
 
 Dearness allowance is pending. This, along with and financial issues compounded over years, is pegged at Rs 150 crore. Around 300, who retired a year ago, have not got their pensions yet. 
 
 “We have been wearing black tapes on our shirts since Wednesday as a mark of protest. We decided to strike from Monday,’’ said Landge.
 
 There are 6,300 employees and 9,000 pensioners, whose families have taken a hit as our funds are not enough, explained Landge why their protest would intensify. 
 
  “We do not want to inconvenience anyone, but if our demand is not addressed, we will go ahead with the strike.” 
 
 
