NAGPUR: With the cops registering a murder case in a death of Jayant Nerkar at the Regional  , the suspicions expressed by North Nagpur MLA Dr   during the winter assembly session appear to be coming true. Now, Mane is planning to seek an audit into the death of all 115 patients who died here in the last seven years, during the state budget session in March.

 After the controversy broke on Mane’s questioning, the state public health department has made a few changes at the hospital. Assistant deputy director health Dr RS Farooqie has been given additional charge of medical superintendent at Mental Hospital. “Dr  , who was earlier the only medical superintendent, will now be looking after the hospital while Dr Farooqie will be looking after the administrative side,” said deputy director health Dr Sanjay Jaiswal, adding that Dr Farooqie has been appointed with the aim of improving the current situation.
 
 Dr Mane said on Monday, “The changes happened only after I raised a question in the assembly about 22 deaths and pressed for an investigation into Nerkar’s death. The hospital is even now claiming that most deaths are natural, but I have a doubt there might be something more to it. Now, after the murder case was registered, things have become more clear.”
 
 He added, “I believe most hospital inmate might be undergoing physical abuse. For instance, to control schizophrenia patients the attendants handling them might get aggressive while controlling them. There are also chances that female inmates under heavy medication might be undergoing sexual abuse. Whatever happens, it is indirectly the responsibility of the hospital.”
 
 He also said, “I am going to raise all these issues in the upcoming state budget session and will stress upon an audit of all deaths that took place within the hospital.”
 
 Dr Nawkhade said, “The police are currently investigating the matter. The incident was unfortunate. I am not against the idea of performing death audits, but if we look at the scene in a broader sense, I don’t think much will come out in the other deaths.”
 
 A senior officer from the hospital said, “If such an incident takes place, everyone tends to blame the person on duty. Instead, there are many factors involved in it. We have been facing extreme staff crunch at the hospital. How can one attendant handle 60 to 90 patients in one ward? It’s next to impossible! According to   guidelines, there should be CCTVs inside the hospital. These proposals are under consideration of the government.” 
 
 
