BENGALURU: Environmental enthusiasts on Sunday took a leaf out of Lalbagh's rich past to spread awareness about the need for a greener future. Astride 50 cycles decked up with flowers, they pedalled around the botanical gardens, re-enacting the traditional bicycle parade that had been introduced by one of the park's superintendents in 1912 for young girls.

 The bicycle parade was introduced by Lalbagh's modern architect,  , to enhance the glamour of horticulture shows the garden regularly hosted. About 100 people merrily pedalled away in two batches during the one-and-a-half hour event in the redux parade in presence of Krumbiegel's great granddaughter, Alyia Gardiner Krumbiegel. Organized by Project Vruksha, in association with CRISP India Org, Gogreengocycle.org and Shanti Nikethan School, Girinagar, the event aimed at increasing public awareness about the legacy left behind, and to treasure flora and fauna of the gardens.
 
 Vijay Nishanth, founder of Project Vruksha, said he was motivated to create such an event after learning about the historical significance of floral cycle rides, and to continue the mentality of caring for the environment. “Alyia got in touch with me, and we planned this event to remind ourselves of our duty towards Bengaluru. The cycle ride is special because at that time, Krumbiegel's 12-yearold daughter Hilda had also participated in the event. We are hoping to make this an annual feature,“ he said.
 
 The bicycles were decorated with flowers by students from Shanti Nikethan.Participants said they heard about the event mainly through social media. Nishanth even briefed them about the history and tradition behind the floral cycles before they started.
 
 Sureka, employed with a private firm, said the ride was both educational and fun. “It was a wonderful experience to learn so many new things about our own culture. Many people, including me, did not have a clue. Normally, foreigners come here to invest or for their own reasons, but Alyia has come to help us develop our own city, which is great,“ she said.
 
 “Through this ride, we want to pass on a message to one and all to preserve green spaces amid the urban setup. We wish it strikes a cord of responsibility in each one of us towards nature and helps in carrying forward the vision that was seen years ago of a beautiful  , a sustainable ecosystem, which is the need of the hour,“ said   or GoGreenRao as he is c o m m o n l y k n ow n , t h e founder and president of Gogreengocycle.org.
 
 Nishanth said the parade is most likely to be an annual feature.
 
