Failed monsoons, the parched earth and wilting crops in Tamil Nadu are sure signs of a looming disaster for the farming community. While all these may bring a farmer to despair, a closer look at the   numbers reveals that bankruptcy and indebtedness are the two major reasons for  . Such tragedies strike on account of poor legal knowledge among farmers to fight unscrupulous moneylenders.

 On a recent trip to a rural area near Trichy, a woman from a farming community approached me with a bunch of papers seeking legal advice. She said her husband had borrowed `40,000 from a local moneylender in 2007 to celebrate the "ear piercing" ceremony of their daughters. With the couple being field hands, the loan was way above their means. The man had assured his wife that the "moi" (gifts) received during the function will settle the loan. This did not happen. In the meantime, the money lender compelled the man to sign a bond to pay an interest of 3% per month on the amount borrowed with the interest subject to being compounded. In a few years’ time the debt of `40,000 swelled to nearly `10 lakh and the moneylender started threatening the couple to put their small piece of farmland on sale.
 
 I told the woman that the moneylender could not charge such an excessive interest rate as the same is prohibited under provisions of the Tamil Nadu Money Lenders Act, 1957 and the Tamil Nadu Prohibition of Charging Exorbitant Interest Act, 2003. I told her that under these Acts, it was possible for her husband to file a criminal complaint and move civil court to fix the applicable rate of interest. "That is all very fine sir, but who is there to tell us about these laws and guide us in seeking relief," she asked. That I think is the nub of the problem. 
 
 The facilities of legal services that the urban poor have access to is next to non-existent in rural areas. Nobody is out there to tell a farmer that the law does not permit the levying of such usurious interest rates and that he need not feel diffident about challenging the arrangement. There is no one to tell him that he could approach a court of law which has the power to intervene and grant him relief. Nobody is out there to guide his litigation exertions even if he decides to challenge the arrangement. 
 
 In respect to certain socio-economic legislations targeted at alleviating the misery of the poor, the responsibility of the state cannot stop with merely enacting legislations. It must guide the legislation to step out of law books and walk the earth providing succour and relief to the downtrodden.
 
 In 2014, the Madras high court lamented the poor enforcement of anti-usury laws and the court directed the government to implement these laws effectively. But, nothing substantial has been done for the effective implementation of these laws. Given this reality, it is imperative that the   devise some means to provide legal assistance to farmers during the impending crisis. For starters, the legal services authorities attached to various courts could chalk out awareness programme to sensitise people on existing laws that prohibit and punish usurious interest rates. The availability of legal aid for farmers seeking protection from unscrupulous moneylenders should be established with competent legal talent and widely advertised through the media by the  .
 
 The above steps require state judicial academies to train those providing legal aid to delicately handle these cases without putting too much strain on the farmer and aim for an early resolution.
 
 Tamil poet Thiruvalluvar wrote 10 couplets extolling the virtues of the farmer. Today the Indian farmer is not looking for paeans to be sung in his glory. He is looking for solutions to end his pain. 
 
 (The author is a senior advocate at the Madras high court)
 
 Email your feedback to southpole.toi@timesgroup.com
 
 
