MUMBAI: You could soon see more kaali-peelis and   on the city’s roads. There should be no restriction on the number of street hailing  , the committee set up by the Centre to frame a taxi policy for urban mobility has said. It made the recommendation in its report submitted in December and it is now being considered by the Maharashtra government.

 Mantralaya sources said the government is keen to do away with the nearly 20-year freeze on the issuance of taxi and autorickshaw   in the  . There are 1.15 lakh taxis and tourist cabs and 1.39 lakh autos in Mumbai and its suburbs.
 
 Additional transport commissioner Satish Sahasrabudhe said, “Several existing permits had lapsed and were considered as dead permits. We have revived these and are issuing them them through a transparent lottery system to ensure that there are more autos and taxis on road. No new permit has been issued since 1998.” 
 
 Taxi unions welcomed the proposal to remove the cap and issue permits based on demand. A L Quadros of the Mumbai Taximen’s Union, said: “Between 1962 and 1983, we had the freedom to apply for any number of permits, which is when the kaali-peeli taxis became popular among Mumbaikars. But after the permits were frozen in 1998, we have not been able to augment the public transport population.” 
 
 He said that the removal of cap on permits could benefit the new City Taxi Scheme wherein the government plans to issue new permits for app-based taxis. Nearly 30,000 private tourist taxis operating as Ola and Uber Cabs, as also 12,000 kaali-peeli drivers, are likely to apply for these permits in order to join the scheme, sources said. 
 
 In its report, the committee, of which the state transport commissioner was a member, states, “There is a need for national-level policy intervention to promote shared mobility over private vehicle ownership to reduce congestion and pollution in urban agglomerations. States should facilitate unhindered grant of city taxi and all India taxi permits without a restriction on numbers. The city taxis may continue as street hailing taxis. However, they may also be allowed to ply on the aggregator platform if they so desire.
 
 “The committee strongly recommends avoiding unreasonable restrictions that will make taxi operations economically unviable, thereby causing inconvenience to the citizens and increased use of personalised vehicles.” 
 
 A senior government official said issuance of licences was last done in 1998 for taxis (kaali-peelis) and autorickshaws. “Since then the population has grown exponentially. Even the number of private vehicles has zoomed but the number of kaali-peelis and autorickshaws has remained stagnant,” he said. 
 
 The latest transport department statistics (till March 31, 2017) show that there are a total of 1.15 lakh taxis (kaali-peelis, tourist cabs) and 1.39 lakh autorickshaws operating in Mumbai. The autos ply only in the suburbs while the taxis ply across the island city and suburbs. Street taxis are present only in Mumbai as there is no demand for these vehicles in other metro cities in the state.
 
 Arguing the case for doing away with the restrictions the official said pollution, congestion, lack of parking space were reasons given for not granting permits as per demand. “But don’t these same arguments also hold for private vehicles and now taxi aggregators like Ola and Uber? Why should an ordinary citizen not get a   to ply a taxi or autorickshaw? Let market forces decide the number of taxis and autorickshaws on the roads,” he said.
 
 The government too will earn revenue from issuing these permits, he said. The government’s refusal to issue permits for two decades now has resulted in old taxis and autorickshaws continuing to ply on the roads, he said.
 
 Transport expert Ashok Datar said that the government should encourage more public transport. “If you look at Mumbai, the private car population occupies 85% road space but carries fewer people compared to public transport buses, taxis and autorickshaws. A single bus can carry passengers equivalent to eight to nine car loads, while a taxi can also carry commuters who otherwise would have travelled in two to three vehicles,” he said. 
 
 
