Panaji, the city that is taking rapid strides to becoming ‘smart’, was once infested with pigs and rats, and was witness to several outbreaks of chicken pox, small pox, remittent fevers, whooping cough, measles, cholera and bubonic plague. A scenario difficult to imagine of our beloved city that looks so pristine in all the black and white and sepia photographs from the 1900s.

 But, back in the 1800s, the story was different. Pigs roamed the streets defecating as and where, there were rats, and as Fatima da Silva Gracias writes in Health and Hygiene in Colonial Goa (1510-1961), Goa was an unhealthy place due to lack of sanitation caused by scarcity of protected water, drainage system, proper toilets as well as means to dispose garbage and night soil, during the Portuguese regime.
 
 That was when the Portuguese government got its act together and made vaccination compulsory, quarantined the inflicted, awarded rat catchers, and took up the challenging task of convincing unwilling citizenry to make the shift from ‘pig toilets’ to the more hygienic system of dry toilets.
 
 To the last, the residents, especially those from the ward of Fontainhas, put up stiff resistance to the government order to shift to a modern system of toilets, even to the extent of making a representation to the government against it, writes former director of education, Celsa Pinto, in her recently released book ‘Colonial Panjim Its Governance, Its People’.
 
 But on June 12, 1859, the municipality went ahead and issued an ordinance to curb the menace of pigs wandering the streets, spending more than 400 xerafins annually on workers who were entrusted with the work of policing and catching the pigs.
 
 And, in July 1862, an official letter released on the orders of the governor general directed all inhabitants to clean up their courtyards and get rid of the pigs that lived there within a month.
 
 Next came the step to tackle the issue of removal of human waste which piled up in the absence of pig toilets. The municipal committee in 1896 announced a novel project. A contractor was hired to remove night soil from homes. Men were employed to collect the human waste between 4am and 6am and from 9pm and 11 pm. It was put in casks or barrels (made of iron) on carts pulled by buffaloes and taken to be disposed off. Pinto writes that the ‘Regulamento’ of 1938 makes references to septic tanks, and that by the 1950, 186 houses in Panaji had septic tanks.
 
 It was also decided to cut through the hillock of Coceicao specifically to reduce the recurring bouts of disease in Fontainhas, the city’s oldest ward. “It was expected that the measure would results in better air circulation in the area,” writes Vasco Pinho in Snapshots of Indo-Portuguese History – I. The project was undertaken between 1878 and 1882 where a 20m deep valley through the hillock was excavated. With the completion of the Corte do Oiteiro, the air circulation especially in Fontainhas improved and helped bring down the incidence of disease. To control epidemics, vaccination was made mandatory, with the clergy refusing to register marriages if couples didn't produce documents proving they had been vaccinated and re-vaccinated. Similarly, students enrolled at the Liceu Nacional and for medical courses were asked to produce the documents, as were those seeking government jobs.
 
 The campaign to keep the capital city disease-free also involved rat-catchers who were rewarded for every rodent they presented before the Regedor. “In early 1898 it was fixed at one tanga per rat. From June to August 1898, 1,280 rats were brought before the administration, even by children and beggars. Perhaps due to the financial burden, the rate per rat was reduced to 6 reis in November 1898,” Pinto said. 
 
 Another important strategy the government adopted to tackle disease was to house those inflicted in a house of isolation situated near Campo de D Manoel. Nothing was left to chance and those arriving from British India by sea were also subjected to thorough medical inspections. In 1877, the government passed stricter orders. The government, keen on getting the public to contribute to the sanitation of the capital city, issued regulations including some bordering on the absurd.
 
 People were prohibited from exposing salted fish for drying and manuring, roasting cashew seeds near habitations, temples and public buildings, and from washing vehicles in public places between 5am and 8 am, and 2pm and 5pm. Citizens found watering plants in one’s verandah, dusting carpets, bedsheets, mats and clothes in streets or public spaces from 8am to midnight would be fined. 
 
 
