AHMEDABAD: The   High Court Advocates’ Association (GHAA) on Friday sought information from the   on the transfer of Justice   of the Karnataka high court. 

 Moreover, the association wants to know why Justice M R Shah of the Gujarat high court has not been transferred.
 
 The GHAA has sought information from Karnataka and Allahabad high courts on Justice Patel’s transfer to file a petition in the Supreme Court. 
 
 “Secrecy breeds corruption and therefore till the decision-making process of the Supreme Court collegium is not brought into the public gaze, people of India are bound to suffer and the fundamental rights enshrined in the Constitution will stay a paper declaration,” the association has said.
 
 The association has requested the Supreme Court to provide notes of recommendations recorded by the Chief   and the Supreme Court collegium relating to the transfer of Justice Patel to the Allahabad high court. The association has asked for notes of all collegium members. 
 
 It has sought the note forwarded by a Karnataka high court judge to the Supreme Court collegium on the recommendation to transfer Justice Patel. Since this was the second proposal for his transfer, the association wants to know whether Justice Patel was consulted.
 
 The GHAA has sent a request to both the high courts seeking relevant information in the form of notes submitted to the Supreme Court collegium by the Chief Justices concerned. 
 
 The association has also sought details on why two judges from the Gujarat high court — Justice R P Dholaria and Justice K J Thaker, who is with the Allahabad high court now — have not been made permanent judges and are still functioning as additional judges four years after their elevation.
 
 Additionally, the GHAA has sought details on why the transfers of Justice M R Shah and Justice Valmik Mehta have not been effected, and the reason for the subsequent withdrawal of the Supreme Court collegium’s original recommendations for their transfer.
 
 The reason the GHAA has cited for asking these details from the three higher courts is its proposal to challenge the Supreme Court collegium’s decision to transfer Justice Patel and to raise the larger issue of full-fledged judicial review in such matters to avoid arbitrariness and abuse of power in the matter of transfer and elevation of judges. 
 
 
