RANCHI: Governor   hailed the amendments to the land ownership rights in the Chotanagpur Tenancy (CNT) and   (SPT) Acts as historic and unprecedented on the opening day of the budget session on Tuesday. 

 In her address to the House, Murmu defended the amendments to the twin Acts and said the changes are aimed at protecting the interests of tribal communities. 
 
 "The government took several important decisions last year, among which, the amendments to the CNT Act of 1908 and SPT Act of 1949 are historic and unprecedented. The government will not compromise with the interests of the tribal communities," Murmu said. 
 
 "The amendments are being made to end the practice of handing over tribal lands to the non-tribals in exchange for compensation. The amendments are being made so that tribal families can use their agricultural lands for non-agricultural purposes and keep their ownership at the same time," she added.
 
 However, Murmu's statements irked the   (JMM) legislators. While JMM senior legislator Champai Soren protested in the well of the House, party MLAs staged a walkout protest. The Assembly proceedings were adjourned till Wednesday
 
 Speaking to media persons, Soren echoed the opposition's stand that the Raghubar Das government remained silent on the reversal of the amendments. "We will continue to protest till the government pulls out the amendments on the land laws," Soren said. 
 
 The opposition also criticised the governor's speech with t   state president and Lohardaga MLA Sukhdeo Bhagat saying the amendments were being implemented to woo investors ahead of the next month's global investment summit. 
 
 Meanwhile, the governor also highlighted the initiatives and achievements taken by the Raghubar Das government. Among other things, Murmu stated that the government's objective was to convert   into a power producing hub by 2020. 
 
 Murmu also praised the government's plans to organize the global investment summit in February and the investment promotional road shows in India and abroad, terming them as "useful for the state's development". 
 
 
