NAGPUR: Where does education stand in comparison to riches when one considers marriage? What plagues the growth of girls in villages? ‘Assa   Nako Ga Bai’ is essentially a comedy play with social issues at its heart. Staged at Vasantrao Deshpande Hall, Civil Lines, on Thursday evening, the play presented a bouquet of emotions, from a father’s perspective to a daughter’s heart, with the help of different characters who showcased the absurd and ironic elements of the rural society.

 Written and directed by noted zadi patti artiste Sadanand Borkar, the play began with a light argument between two sisters, Suman and Maya, who are counter opposites of each other. While Suman, the elder one, is dedicated to her studies, Maya is lazy, who has failed her 12th grade examination twice. Maya is feisty and funny who lives by her own terms. The sisters live with their elder brother and father. The script is in zhadi boli and the dialogues are crisp, pointed, as well as witty. 
 
 The focus of the play is the issue of marriage, and how rotten the system remains in rural areas. The character of a headmaster who advices ‘gruhashanti puja’ and other rituals in order to make circumstances favourable for a wedding, showcases the hold of superstitions despite the facade of education. 
 
 Ramrao Sontakke, the girls’ father, is worried about getting his daughters married at a suitable age. “What is the use of their education if they are not married off,” he asks.
 
 Amid a gamut of hilarious scenes, a prospective groom and his father visit Suman. She can sit on the floor, they suggest, when Suman’s father tries to fetch a seat for the girl. Does she know how to cook? Does she have any disease? Suman doesn’t get to ask any questions. 
 
 Meanwhile, Maya elopes and gets married, who is then largely ignored by her father. The character of  , a neighbour, is funny and witty as he points out absurdity in society with subtlety despite being shown as a ‘mindless’ character.
 
 All backstage artistes also make an entry on the stage. The set is static, depicting a courtyard of a house with a well. The music enhanced the effect and set the tone for the narrative. Apart from a few technical glitches with regard to the sound, the play was delivered appealingly, and had the audience in splits, even eliciting whistles.
 
 The lead roles were played by Vijay Mule, Chandrasen Lenze, Vishvanath Parvate, Angaraj Borkar, Kamlakar Kamdi, Parag Sahare, Sheetal Raut, Devyani Joshi and Manjusha Joshi, all of whom embodied their characters with commendable prowess. The play was presented by Shri Venkatesh Natya Mandal, Navargaon.
 
