MUMBAI: A move by the state to curb corruption in orthopaedic implants — by procuring them in bulk — has rattled several government doctors, who are allegedly finding ways to thwart the initiative. Doctors, on the other hand, have blamed the state for the “callous purchase“ of implants without vital instruments, rendering them “unusable“.

 As a result, orthopaedic implants worth Rs 29 crore, meant to be given to trauma patients, are barely being used at the 14 state-run medical colleges. The implants are supposed to be given for free to accident victims or below-poverty-line patients.The state had decided to centrally purchase implants last year to curb corruption at the level of individual medical colleges, which used to allegedly purchase them at inflated rates or make patients procure them from agents roaming outside operation theatres. A first-ever state move to centrally purchase orthopaedic implants has allegedly rattled several government doctors.
 
 An order for stainless steel and titanium implants was placed with Gujarat-based Sharma  , based on the demand placed by each medical college.
 
 The implants began to arrive in hospitals in July last year.However, the state recently found out about the dismal use of the implants and set up a committee to investigate the reasons for it.
 
 Dr Pravin Shingare, head of the   (DMER), confirmed that doctors are citing “logistical difficulty“ as a reason for low utilization. At G T and St George hospitals, less than 50 patients have benefited from implants worth Rs 2.5 crore and Rs 56.2 lakh, which they received in January and July last year, respectively. J J Hospital in Byculla that got the implants around six months ago has managed to help a little over 60 patients. All the three state-run hospitals jointly carry out over 3,500 procedures annually , with 2,000 being performed by J J alone. TOI has learnt that the situation is similar in other medical colleges across Maharashtra as most could not provide the numbers of how many implants have been used.
 
 Last month, the medical education department was forced to call for a joint meeting with orthopedic heads of all medical colleges. “Doctors told us that the implants were delivered in a haphazard manner, which is making it difficult for them to use it. They are now telling us nuts, bolts and screws are missing, which is amusing because the state purchased everything that the doctors had asked for,“ said Dr Shingare.
 
 He said the state is now for ced to investigate why certain medical colleges have given incomplete orders. “At least three to four medical colleges have also ordered implants in excess.An expert committee under the dean of   in Pune will investigate the issues,“ said Shingare.
 
 RTI data accessed by TOI revealed that G T Hospital that carries out half the surgeries as J J had ordered for more implants than the latter.
 
 The medical community is unwilling to shoulder any blame, though. “The implants were delivered in such a haphazard manner that just sorting them took two to three months for most hospitals. Thousands of nuts and screws belonging to various sizes varying from 3.5mm to 6.5mm were given to us in one single box. Which staffer in a government hospital has the time to segregate and organize all that,“ said a senior surgeon. He added that several vital instruments necessary to use the implants have still not been delivered. “We obviously ask patients to buy them,“ said the doctor. Shingare added that the distributor's bill has been withheld wherever the deliveries have not been made.
 
 Additionally , storing the implants has become a logistical nightmare for these hospi tals. “Currently , hundreds of boxes are stuffed in rooms close to operation theatres. Initially, when the implants arrived, neither the store in-charge nor the nurses wanted to take their responsibility . A few nurses even sought transfers from the orthopedic department,“ added another doctor.
 
 R P Rao, president of  , said several doctors are hand in glove with implant agents. “Resident doctors in public hospitals, too, play a role along with their seniors. Patients are easily charged a margin of 25% to 200% and hardly ever given bills,“ he said.
 
 
 
 A nexus between implant manufacturers, sellers and doctors is not unheard of. It is, therefore, imperative that the state installs checks and balances to ensure that the implants that have been purchased with public money don't go waste.At the same time, the state must address the genuine grievances of doctors and see to it that the distributor does not go scot-free without providing the services.
 
