HYDERABAD: Proving once again that the Telangana health department's drug procurement policies are flawed, the drug control authorities found another product of Nagpur-based Haseeb   of poor quality.
This time, the drug control authorities found that a particular saline injection supplied to all government hospitals was not of uniform quality.
 
 In an official email sent to all government hospitals on Thursday, a copy of which is with TOI, the authorities said the sodium chloride injection IP 500ml was “not of standard quality“. The government analyst, drug control laboratory, Hyderabad requested government hospitals “to stop the use and kept aside“ the sodium chloride injection IP 500ml with batch number 1511130 with an expiry date of October 2017.
 
 This injection is normally used for intravenous application as well as sterilisation of surgical instruments or for cleaning wounds.
 
 “The product was found to have defects in meeting sterility conditions. We will initiate a case against the company as per the laboratory finding,“ said M Amruth Rao, joint director, Telangana Drug Control Administration (TDCA). Under rules, 50,000 to 1 lakh pharmaceutical products can share one common batch number, depending upon the size of the company. Thursday's email comes close on the heels of TDCA finding three substandard batches of Haseeb Pharmaceuticals' Ringer's Lactate (RL) solution. This solution was linked to botched cataract surgeries in nine patients in the government-run   Eye hospital in July 2016.
 
 “We have filed seven cases against the company in Malakpet court after we found that three batches of Haseeb's RL product samples, which we collected from different hospitals, failed to meet the quality stan dards,“ said Rao.
 
 Though supply of Haseeb's RL products to staterun hospitals was stopped immediately, sources said that Telangana State Medical Services and Infrastructure Development Corporation (TSMSIDC) still has Haseeb on its list of suppliers of pharmaceutical products. “Nothing conclusive was established against Haseeb's product in the Sarojini hospital case,“ said R  , managing director, TSMSIDC.
 
 When told about TDCA's latest finding, he said the “not of standard quality“ finding could have been noted in one batch of the 53 samples of Haseeb products that drug control officials picked up from different ho spitals after the botched eye surgeries.
 
 Yusuf Badar, managing director of Haseeb Pharmaceuticals, said the  's report had been challenged by his company and the sample sent to Central Drug Laboratory, Kolkata, for testing. “The Hyderabad laboratory is a state government organisation and its say is not final. We have challenged it and hence it can't be said that our product is defective,“ he said.
 
 Badar further said that even the state laboratory had not found a major defect in his product. “Such minor defects are found in products of even multi-national corporations. It happens only in odd batches,“ he said.
 
