Panaji: A small kiosk illegally erected against the wall of the state protected monument, Casa de Polvora, at Panelim, Ribandar, has upset heritage lovers, as this once again exposes the vulnerability of heritage assets to insensitive encroachments. The kiosk was installed a few days ago apparently for selling some articles of the old gunpowder factory on the riverfront road. Tourists travelling to Old Goa and Ponda temple complex passed by the heritage site, almost oblivious to its history.  “The wall with a cross facing the Mandovi river is all that remains of the gunpowder factory, also called Palacio da Casa da Polvora,” said a former official of department of archives and archaeology (DAA). The issue of illegal installation of the kiosk is being examined by the state department. “We have taken note of the encroachment,” said a DAA official. Steps would be initiated to remove the structure, he said, adding that the department is also looking at a few other issues related to the site. The gun powder factory with huge millstones to prepare the explosive material was considered one of the most productive gunpower factories in the east. The factory with a palatial edifice looked imposing when viewed from the river front. A small chapel of Sao Marcal was also found on its premises.  “The factory, housed in an imposing riverside building at Panelim, was operational for over two centuries. A decade ago, millstones, typically used for crushing material for the explosives, were discovered at the site when realtors were exploring the area,” says Oscar de Noronha, a history researcher. According to records, as much as 21,600 quintals or 300 kg of gunpowder was being produced daily, fetching a good revenue for the public treasury. By 1842, the edifice started crumbling. In 1855-58, most of the equipment was sold in auction, barring 13 millstones crushers while production stopped after 12 June 1876. An explosion at the factory on December 3, 1882, killed some people, including two nephews of one Camilo Rosario da Costa, who was here for the St Francis Xavier’s feast at Old Goa. Further loss of the heritage site began extensively around two decades ago with houses and a multi-dwelling housing complex coming up at the site. “Even the cross on the wall was beautified by some irresponsible department a decade ago with ceramic tiles, defacing the monument,” a source said. Heritage lovers say isolated cases like this will keep cropping up unless a broader framework for conservation and protection of state monuments is carved out. “There should be a comprehensive debate and legislative action to protect the built heritage of Goa before it gets eroded,” says Raya Shankwalker, secretary, Goa Heritage Action Group.