Panaji: Unwelcome sonic disturbances caused by pile drilling in the Mandovi and Zuari river beds for building bridges has produced sound exposure level anywhere between 130 to 140 decibels, even going up to 180 decibels, disturbing the behaviour of marine animals, said experts from National Institute of Oceanography (NIO), Dona Paula. This was revealed by a passive acoustic study done in these areas.  The deafening sounds caused by drilling would have affected the auditory senses of the fish along the coastline, said Dr Bishwajit Chakraborty, a senior scientist with geological oceanography division at NIO. It also affects dolphins and other marine mammals who use sound to find food, communicate and travel. Since sound travels more easily under water than through the air, these higher noise levels impact marine life and unsettle even their eating habits essential to its survival. He further explained that the fishes have only inner ears unlike humans other land animals and are therefore, more vulnerable to hearing problems.  The passive acoustic study of Mandovi and Zuari river areas was done with the help of a device called data logger, developed at the NIO.  “There are no standards defining the limit of underwater decibel power intensity in Indian waters. Unlike overseas, scientists or sound engineers in India are usually not taken aboard such construction projects to monitor sound levels,” said Chakraborty. “When such sounds are dominating, the fishes not only find it difficult to ‘hear’ sounds of other species, like an approaching predator fish, but it can also lead to losing of their hearing ability,” added Chakraborty, who is also the only Asian member of international quiet ocean experiment (IQOE), an international scientific programme to promote research, observations and modelling to improve understanding of ocean soundscapes and effects of sound on marine organisms. As the behaviour of marine animals has a direct impact on the environment, scientists are concerned that these high levels of sound can affect the auditory senses and thereby the behaviour of the fish along Goa’s coastline.  Many marine species learn to adapt to the behaviour, which is scientifically called morphological adaptive habitation, where the fishes try to change their behaviour to adapt to a new scenario. In this case, however, the sounds generated are so high that the fishes are overwhelmed by the high density of sounds produced, he said.  “If the intensity of sound is not controlled, then it can severely damage the health of marine animals in Goa, which can, in turn, impact the environment,” said Chakraborty. 