GURUGRAM: The   and   (DTCP) has received more than 300 objections against the draft   regulation rules ( ) published by it on April 28 seeking public opinion. The last date for submitting suggestions or objections ends on Monday, but homebuyers are now demanding that the deadline be extended by another two weeks.

 “The period during which people can send objections should be at least 30 days. A period of 15 days is too less. People need at least 30 days to facilitate wider consultations, review the draft rules and prepare meaningful comments,” Saurabh Saxena, a homebuyer, told TOI. 
 
 The draft for   Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Rules, 2017, was published on April 28. But a considerable number of homebuyers, who have been protesting the delay in possession of flats, were disappointed as the state government let off most ongoing housing projects from ambit of the regulatory authority.
 
 The draft Rera rules seek to exclude projects which have received part completion or occupation certificates, and those that have applied for occupancy certificates or part completion certificates, if the same is granted by a competent authority within three months.
 
 A retired senior town planner, who doesn’t want to be identified, raised objections against the way in which the draft rule was published without setting up the regulatory authority.
 
 “The deadline for state governments to establish a regulatory authority by legislative enactment was April 30, 2017, as per the central Rera Act (Section 20). This has not been done by the Haryana government so far. No officer can function as an interim regulatory authority beyond this date. Similarly, the Rera Act is an enabling Act that requires states to set up a regulatory authority. In its absence, the rules being framed by the Haryana government do not have any legal sanction, and therefore cannot be enforced,” he said.
 
 He said the government should give a unique ID for each promoter and project. Sumit Agrawal, a homebuyer said, “To keep track of individual projects, each builder and project should have unique IDs, which should be something like an aadhaar number that can be used to look for H-Rera database.” 
 
 
