KOLKATA: The death of a 30-year-old accident victim on Friday and the subsequent medical negligence cry by his family played the perfect catalyst in stoking the public grouse against private hospitals. On Saturday, Apollo   came in the line of fire yet again with two more complaints — of negligence and over-billing. 

  A Rs 24-lakh bill slapped on an English Bazar patient, still under treatment, and the death of another from Burdwan, allegedly due to negligence, on Saturday, laid bare the expanding gap between improved treatment facilities and their affordability. 
 
 Sixty-two-year-old Bhagwati Keshari from English Bazar had travelled by train and got admitted at   on January 15 for a surgery at a package cost of about Rs 1.5 lakh to Rs 2 lakh. She is still in hospital and the bill has already crossed Rs 24 lakh. “My mother is still under ventilation due to infection in the chest. We are not getting any proper response from the doctors as to when she will recover. I have exhausted my savings and cannot pay more,” said Keshari’s daughter Bobyta. The family has so far paid Rs 10 lakh. A family member alleged they had sought an air ambulance to shift Bhagwati home, but the hospital authorities refused saying it could be dangerous for her. “They had said she would be discharged within a few days. We have already said we cannot pay anymore. But now we want her to be discharged only after proper treatment,” said a family member. 
 
  of Apollo said: “No air ambulance was arranged as the patient can’t be taken off ventilator support for more than two hours. The patient had kidney trouble, fluid had collected near her heart and in the lungs. She also had thyroid problems. A cardio-thoracic surgeon had removed the fluid from the heart and she was put on a ventilator. But we couldn’t remove the fluids from the lungs. The problem is that the family wanted us to release her straightaway. How could they take the patient without ventilator support? The family is merely trying to take advantage of the situation now prevailing in Kolkata.” 
 
 In the second case, the family of Burdwan Town resident Ratna Ghosh (60) who died on Saturday morning, has alleged medical negligence. Ghosh was admitted on February 11 with breathing trouble.
 
 Hospitals argued that the air of suspicion between patients and doctors will affect both. There can’t be any uniform rule to guide the number of diagnostic tests or the length of the period for which a patient is admitted to the ICU, they felt. “Every case is different and requires a different course of treatment. Depending on the condition of the patient, tests and drugs will vary. So will the decision to shift a patient to ICU. Unfortunately, there’s a perception that these are merely ploys to fleece patients. This can’t be further from the truth since every test and ICU admission is internally screened. It is also important to break the myth that corporate hospital doctors receive commission for recommending tests,” said Rupak Barua, CEO, AMRI Hospitals.
 
 Putting patients on ventilation, too, is not a business decision, insist hospitals. Where they could be going wrong is their inability to explain the decisions to the patients and their families. Unless the clinical parameters permit, you can’t move a patient to a ventilator, pointed out a hospital official. “Every corporate hospital has to follow a screening procedure, which records the circumstances leading to ventilation. Also, there’s a   order that prevents switching off ventilators unless the heart stops functioning. This dismisses the notion that we often hold back bodies on ventilation to charge more,” he added.
 
 ICU admission, in fact, is something which many hospitals try to avoid, pointed out the CEO of a corporate hospital. “The number of ICU beds is limited and less than the number of those who need admission there. So, it doesn’t really prove profitable for hospitals to reccommend ICU admissions. But, you must trust the judgement of the doctor if the latter insists that a patient has to remain in the ICU.”
 
 Educating the public to interpret treatment better could be a way forward, felt a cardiac surgeon. “While the proposed regulatory commission will keep a check on hospitals, patients, too, must learn to analyze treatment,” he said. In the end, it is the trust factor that will keep things on course, felt R Venkatesh, director – east,  . “The entire healthcare fraternity should come together and forge a relationship with patients and their families. Unless both are transparent, open and have faith on each other, the system will collapse,” said Venkatesh.
 
