Gurgaon: Time seems to have run out for five  , which are coming in the way of three   being built to decongest the  . 

  on Wednesday directed its estate officers to take possession of the fuel stations within 48 hours and free the land for the alignment of the underpasses at  ,  . 
 
 “The fuel stations have been given a 48-hour   to shift or face demolition. The estate officers have been directed to take possession of the land, hand them over to   and submit an action taken report within two days,” said Huda administrator Yashpal Yadav. 
 
 Sources at Huda said the urban development body had assured the National Highways Authority of India it would be handed the land at a short notice as and when required for speedy completion of the underpasses. “Today (Wednesday), we received a request from NHAI for the land, which we will hand over within two days,” the Huda administrator asserted.
 
 Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar and Union minister for road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari had inaugurated the project in September 2016. Gadkari had promised to complete the work, which was kicked off last December, within 15 months. 
 
 To clear the sites for the construction, Huda had allotted alternative plots to the fuel stations in August 2016 and served them three notices in the past six months. “They were told to move out by September 30, and that after September 30, Huda could take possession at any time. We had made it plain to the owners that they would face eviction if they failed to shift in time. The entire city will not suffer because of their non-cooperation. It is an important infrastructure project and Huda will provide all required assistance to complete it on time. Huda has to take this harsh step for the greater good,” said Yadav. 
 
 “We cannot give the fuel stations any more time. Now, they can blame only themselves for the losses they are going to face,” he argued.
 
 The entire project will cost Rs 1,000 crore — Rs 700 crore for the underpasses and another Rs 300 crore for related work. While Iffco Chowk flyover and underpass will cost Rs 285.12 crore, the Signature Tower underpass is expected to cost Rs 215.01 crore. The Rajeev Chowk portion is estimated to be completed for Rs 234.32 crore. 
 
 
