MUMBAI: A man, who is in his late 20s, has moved the   for   after his   filed a case against him for cruelty and indulging in  . He said he apprehends arrest in a “false and vexatious complaint”.

 Earlier this month, a sessions judge declined the   any relief after observing that the accusations were serious. Last week, the HC granted no interim relief, but posted the matter for hearing on Monday. Both husband and wife are highly educated and employed in a private firm.
 
 In February, the wife filed an FIR accusing him of cruelty under IPC Section 498-A and of indulging in unnatural sex with her against her will, of filming their relations and showing her images of his extramarital relation under the non-bailable IPC Section 377. She accused him of being in a relationship with a colleague, but he denied it as a “bald allegation”. 
 
 He claimed that she had been living separately for over a year in their two-year-old marriage. His petition, submitted by advocate Filji Frederick, said it was filed “under extremely distressing and compelling circumstances”. “There are no medical reports to substantiate the offences under IPC sections 377 and 323. There is no complaint filed by her earlier,” said the petition.
 
 On March 20, his counsel S V Marwadi and her counsel Niranjan Mudergi were ready to argue, but Arfan Sait, counsel for the state, sought time. Justice Sadhana Jadhav posted it for hearing on March 27. 
 
 His petition said she married him “only for his money”. He said “friction” arose between the two over time and he made attempts to save the marriage till December 2015, includ-ing holidaying with her family.
 
 Last April, said the husband, a mutual consent divorce plea was drafted and she sought Rs 45 lakh as alimony. The next month, after he got pre-arrest bail, she filed for divorce on cruelty grounds and filed a complaint under the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act before a magistrate.
 
 He too then sought divorce citing cruelty. In January, he said, she sought Rs 1 crore as permanent settlement and when he expressed inability to pay, she filed the criminal case against him and his parents. 
 
 
