AHMEDABAD : The   had proposed to take up a study among the   to assess the   in the city. The   (AIRP), which was released on Friday, states that road dust is the major contributor to   city.

 The AIRP states that a study found that the contributors to 10-micrometre particulate matter (PM10) pollution in the city was 30% road dust, 25% power plants, 20% motor vehicles, 15% industry, and the remaining 10% from domestic cooling, diesel generator sets, waste burning and construction.
 
 The study further found that the contribution breakup for PM2.5 in Ahmedabad was 31% from power plant, 27% transport, 11% brick kilns, 9% domestic cooking, 7% roads and 10% from diesel generators and waste burning.
 
 The AIRP stated that to focus on vulnerable groups, AMC has decided that apart from carrying out a study, it will also launch a school flag programme to display coloured flags corresponding to the air quality index for each day. The AMC has also decided to prepare a programme to sensitize community in areas where air quality is poor or very poor. The AMC will also organize out asthma and pulmonary health clinics.
 
 The AMC, as a part of the AIRP, will appoint a nodal officer responsible for informing urban health centres and doctors when air quality turns poor, very poor or severe. The AMC also plans to send SMS alerts about air quality in the city and in their area, to patients suffering from asthma and other lung-related diseases.
 
 According to the AIRP, the AMC this year will train medical and paramedical worker on the issue of air pollution and health and the measures required if air quality deteriorates from poor to severe. These medical practitioners will also help raise awareness.
 
 The AMC will start research on reducing air pollutant after identifying pollutants. The AIRP states that in case of severe pollution or an air health alert is issued, its health department will ensure that adequate supplies of medicine are available. 
 
 The AIRP also says that the AMC’s labour department make sure that health workers get masks and they are made to work outdoors only when air quality improves.
 
