ALWAR: Four patients died after the alleged transfusion of contaminated blood over the past four days in Alwar. Following suspected deaths, the district administration has imposed restrictions on the supply of blood from the blood bank, which issued the same to patients.

 The health department has launched an investigation to find out if more such suspected deaths have occurred in the hospitals.
 
 Besides, the administration has also appointed additional city magistrate Javed Ali to investigate the matter.An alert has also been issued in this regard by the administration to health department officials.
 
 Moreover, chief medical health officer (CMHO) Dr Pankaj Gupta constituted a five-member committee to investigate the matter. The committee comprises deputy chief medical health officer, pathologist, drug controller officer, epidemiologist and a physician. “As of now, we are not in a position to say anything in the matter. We will be able to comment on it after we receive the report of the five-member committee,“ Dr Gupta said.
 
 Besides, during initial investigation, it has been found that four patients--Suman Yadav, resident of Kishangarh Bas; Sonia Kalra from Katuri Wala Tibara; and two others, Arfina and Kampo--also died after alleged transfusion of contaminated blood.
 
 Suman's husband Ajay Kalra alleged that his wife died within few hours of transfusion. He also filed an FIR at the Kotwali police station. Kalra said that his wife's haemoglobin was just slightly above 5 gdL when she was brought to the hospital two days ago.
 
 The committee, constituted by the CMHO, has started the investigation. They visited   Charitable  . The team will also visit the hosptials where the blood was transfused.
 
 Dr Gupta said that they were identifying patients who may have died in hospitals after blood transfusion. The committee will submit its report in three days.
 
 It will also check if the blood bag had any manufacturing defect that led to contamination.
 
 Official in-charge pf the blood bank, Dr  , said, “ At present, there are 400 units of blood in the bank. The samples of blood will send to Jaipur's private hospital for quality testing. Only after we receive the report from Jaipur, it will be made clear whether the blood was contaminated or not.“
 
 He said that the blood issued by the bank should be used within four hours. After four hours, there are chances of the blood being infected.
 
