LUCKNOW: The Lucknow bench of the   on Friday said that it is an obligation of the state government to establish and run modernized   and the previous government had taken steps in this regard. Observing that citizens have the right to an adequate means of livelihood and choice of food, the court asked the high-powered committee to formulate a policy on the issue by July 17. Considering that licenses for meat shops and slaughtering can be granted under the  ,  , the court asked the aspirants of licences to apply accordingly and further directed the authorities concerned to issue licences as per rules. In case the local authorities find any difficulty in doing so, they can approach the state government for guidance. A bench of Justice A P Sahi and Justice Sanjai Harkauli passed the directives on a bunch of writ petitions filed individually. The Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court directed the high-powered committee to consider the aspects set forth in the verdict and formulate the policy in the matter of slaughtering and issuing licences to meat shops.

 The petitioners had demanded that their meat shop licence, which had expired on March 31, should be renewed. The petitioners had pleaded that the state, in fact, wanted to close slaughterhouses and therefore it issued an order March 22. The petitioners submitted that the state action has forced the closure of meat business, which is a Constitutional right. The act of the state indirectly put unreasonable restriction on food tastes of a citizen, which cannot be permitted. Citing an apex court guideline, it was also pointed out that in compliance whereof the central and state governments had released funds for establishment of modern abattoirs, but the present government was lagging behind.
 
 Opposing the pleas, advocate general Raghvendra Singh and state's special counsel LP Mishra had strongly submitted that it was not the obligation of the state government to establish the slaughterhouses. It was argued that the Food Safety Act, 2006 had overruled other provisions under which licences for slaughtering and renewal of meat shops were granted. The state counsel pleaded that if the aspirants of the licences applied as per norms, the same can be issued after scrutiny.
 
 The bench issued its interim verdict on Friday after hearing the matter for several days. Considering the provisions of different local Acts and government order issued by the previous government, the bench said that establishing and running slaughterhouses was the responsibility of the state. It relied on GOs placed before it in which it was evident that the state had earlier issued funds for the purpose.
 
 "The disbursement of funds under the said head has been categorically described in relation to several projects with substantial amount of funding by the central government.It is thus clear that not only the central government but the state government as well in the past has undertaken these steps in order to ensure the running of modernized slaughterhouses either by improving upon the existing slaughterhouses or setting up of new modern slaughterhouses,"" held the bench.
 
 “All the citizens have the right to an adequate means of livelihood to subserve common good which in the instant case would also include the choice of food of its citizens and all other such obligations that can be gathered from the Constitutional provisions,“ observed the bench, directing the high-powered committee to formulate a policy on the whole issue by the next date, fixing July 17 for further hearing in the matter.
