 gives a rocking performance on the   finale and   announces that almost more than 11.95 Cr votes have come in to select the winner. The eliminated housemates are all brought in and Jr NTR asks them what they've done after leaving the game.

 He interacts with the final five and tells them their family members are here. Navdeep is asked to give a report on what transpired in the house in the final week. Jr NTR makes fun of how Archana’s cut-outs were put all over the city. He asks Hariteja to narrate a Hari Katha!
 
 The ex-housemates are all given awards and   is given an award for giving ‘Uchita Salahadarudu’. Madhu Priya sings Telangana songs and the audience is excited. Burning Star Sampoo is given the ‘Uttama Ayo Mayam’ award. Jr NTR shows a montage of the funny incidents in the house.
 
 Jr NTR says the housemates will be sent into five different corners of the house and when the buzzer is sounded, all the housemates will come and sit in the living room again except for one, who’s eliminated. The housemates are shown a montage of whom they think will win Bigg Boss.   is sent to the smoking room, Adarsh to the bathroom, Hariteja to the activity room, Navdeep to the store room and Archana is sent to the confession room. Archana is eliminated in the first wave.
 
 The ‘Grinder’ award goes to Diksha because she’s a huge foodie and Prince is given the ‘Mr Romeo’ award. Diksha and Prince perform to various songs after winning the award. Four red boxes are sent into the house and the housemate who opens the box with something in it is the one eliminated. Navdeep is eliminated in the second wave, leaving behind three housemates.
 
 Dhanraj is given the ‘Best Entertainer’ award for Season one and he decides to share it with Navdeep because he believed he deserves it too. Dhanraj performs a skit on   with the help of rest of the housemates. The housemates are shown a montage of their aggressive moments in the house. ‘Guraka Rayudu’ award is given to Sameer.
 
 The housemates are given a choice wherein one of them can take a briefcase filled with Rs 10 lakhs and choose to leave the house, irrespective of their elimination. Jr NTR gives them 2 minutes to decide and refuses to let them discuss with each other. The housemates all decide to forgo the money and decide to take their chance. Hariteja is shockingly eliminated, despite receiving 2.43 Cr votes.
 
 A video montage of the whole 70 days of Season 1 of Bigg Boss Telugu is shown. The ‘Fitting Master’ Award is handed to Katti Karthika. The ‘Gundello Godavari’ Award is given to Madhu Priya. Bigg Boss surprises Jr NTR with a video montage of his moments in the show too. Jr NTR walks into the house and brings out Adarsh and Sivabalaji to announce the winner of Bigg Boss Telugu. Eight and half lakh votes are the only difference between Siva Balaji and Adarsh. Jr NTR announces Siva Balaji as the winner of Season one of Bigg Boss Telugu, with him getting Rs 50 lakh as the prize money.
 
