NAGPUR: For the second consecutive day, bus services in the city remain disrupted. The  , through its four new operators — three Red and one Green — plied only around 160-odd buses, which caused lot of inconvenience to the passengers. The reason for less plying of buses was shortage of conductors.

 According to sources, the NMC is not ready to induct some 200 odd conductors from ousted   as they had allegedly done some irregularities. 
 
 Municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar admitted that the commuters were facing problems due to transition period. “During this period, some mismatch is bound to happen,” he said, adding that the talks are on with the conductors and by Friday the number of buses would be increased. According to him, the problem will be solved within a week’s time when number of buses will cross 180 mark.
 
 He also assured that within two months, the NMC, through four bus operators, will succeed in plying around 487 buses. 
 
 Bus trips on many routes remained affected on Thursday and as a result, most of the buses were overcrowded. “Three months after introducing three red and one green bus operators, the city bus service, a much-hyped project of the   has failed to improve the public transport system,” a miffed Achal Gajbhiye, a student of   and a resident of Kamptee, said. 
 
 She further pointed out that when the NMC knew that the contract of the old operator would end on February 28, things should have been kept itself ready. “But the civic body ignored the transition process and as a result, passengers without any fault of theirs, are facing a lot of inconvenience,” said Ravi Verma a resident of Isasani. 
 
 Most buses are off road and commuters, who are depend on autorickshaws are questioning the NMC’s credibility to run the city bus operations. 
 
 They alleged that the delay in procurement of new buses is adversely affecting the city’s bus services as the total number of buses in the fleet has reduced from 470 to 130. Of this, 10% are always in repairs or under maintenance. For 1.60 lakh daily bus commuters, this means poor frequency due to unavailability of the requisite number of buses. 
 
 “The scarcity of buses has already affected services as the waiting time for buses has increased from 10 minutes to half an hour in some of the routes,” said passengers.
 
 The deteriorating bus service has already forced majority of its users to opt for share autos which is easily accessible solution. As result of which in past few years the number of bus commuters has decreased from 2.25 lakh to not even 1 lakh daily riders.
 
 
