GURUGRAM: More than 200 families living in Unitech’s Harmony, a   in Sector 50, without occupation certificate and  , are now looking forward to resolution of their issues. Their problems range from   to bad roads in the society.

 Following a series of complaints from residents, the department of town and country planning (DTCP) has stepped in and directed Unitech to submit a comprehensive plan to resolve the problems. The developer has also been asked to submit details of funds required for completing the basic infrastructure work.
 
 Harmony was launched by Unitech in 2006 and it was expected to be completed by 2009. Spread over 10.50 acres with eight towers, Harmony was delayed like many other real estate projects of the city. The developer delivered the first tower in 2011 and few more towers were delivered in 2014, while the remaining towers were completed in 2016. But till now, the developer has not been able to complete the basic infrastructure work.
 
 “Incomplete infrastructure work coupled with poor maintenance have made our lives difficult. Lifts are in poor condition and firefighting equipment are inadequate and non-functional. Residents are concerned about their safety and security,” said Geetha, one of the residents. “The developer does not pay for housekeeping and security guards, and they keep going on strike.”
 
 Residents alleged the sewage treatment plant and the water treatment plant are non-functional and roads inside the society are in poor condition. “Power infrastructure is also not fully developed due to which society faces regular disruption in supply,” said Geetha.
 
 Some residents claimed that they approached the developer with their complaints many a time, but no action has been taken yet. “One department of the real estate company puts the blame on the other department,” said a resident, who did not wish to be named.
 
 When contacted, district town planner (DTP) RS Batth said, “Unitech has been asked to submit a detailed drawing of the project and estimate for completing the infrastructure deficiencies in Harmony. It has also been directed to take necessary measures to improve fire safety arrangements.”
 
 Unitech admitted there are some infrastructure issues in the society. “We are working to prepare an estimate for infrastructure work. A detailed report with reply to issues raised by department will be submitted (to DTCP) in the next few days,” a spokesperson said.
 
 
