NAGPUR: A group of visually challenged persons led by Rajesh Asudani, a   (RBI) employee, have started a Capacity Building Centre for Blind Youth (CBCBY) with the aim of enhancing the competitive abilities of blind youths.

 A six months free of cost certificate course would train them in basics of computers using technologies like the screen reading software and optical character recognition (OCR). The first batch of five students will start from February 1. 
 
 “OCR converts printed text into a soft copy which can be easily accessed by the blind individuals. We have a qualified instructor for the course. Our aim is to prepare the visually challenged persons for competitive examinations and equip them to go for better jobs. Sadly, even the MSCIT trained individuals are not very competent in their work. So, one can understand the level of the blinds,” Asudani told TOI.
 
 Asudani further said that he and some other like-minded visually challenged individuals who had started a forum — Disability, Advocacy, Research and Education (DARE) foundation, which will support the CBCBY participants. Besides Asudani, who is president, the other members of DARE include vice-president Kanchanmala Pandey, an   and international swimmer, secretary Kamlesh Manvatkar, employee of   and Jaipur, and treasurer of DARE B Jairam.
 
 “We are pooling in some part of our salary for DARE to run this project. Gradually, we may need resources and financial help from others. My dream is to start a primary school for blind students in English as all schools today are either Marathi or Hindi medium. These students are not confident enough and require the kind of help we are planning to provide,” said Asudani.
 
 Shirish Deshpande, head of postgraduate department of law at   and himself a visually impaired person, inaugurated the project. Prof Lakshman Khapekar, Prof Vilas Telgote and Shantanu Ladkat, all from   (TTI) Pune and Prof Girish Kulkarni were also present. Radha Borde, who received president’s award on the last international disability day, was felicitated on the occasion.
 
 DARE has appealed to blind college students to take advantage of the project. They can get in touch with secretary Kamlesh Manvatkar on 9769129592, or president Asudani on 9420397185.
 
 
