NEW DELHI: Fuel contamination at petrol pumps may be common but now this problem has surfaced at airports, too. At least two domestic flights of a leading airline took off from Kolkata last Friday (July 7) after getting fuel for the journey. But, soon after they were airborne, the pilots got a fuel warning forcing their return to Kolkata. 

 “Puzzled about the return, as the warning had come after fuelling, the airline got the fuel tanks emptied. The drained out aviation turbine fuel (ATF) was checked and was found to have water contamination,” said a source. The airline then took   from a big oil marketing company (OMC) at Kolkata’s   instead of its regular, smaller OMC there. The flights took off after this. 
 
 Despite repeated attempts, the airline did not comment on the issue. This is not surprising as ATF is the single biggest cost factor for Indian carriers and airlines do not want their relations with OMCs to be affected. 
 
 The Directorate General of   is probing the contamination issue. The quality of jet fuel supplied to aircraft is constantly checked and the water contamination case at Kolkata—forcing two flights to return after take off following a fuel warning — has caught airlines by surprise. 
 
 IndianOil Aviation Service— India’s largest jet fuel supplier, which refuels about 1,750 flights a day — describes how specific audits based on a quality control index system benchmarked to global standards ensure aircraft get safe fuel. “In addition, 15 Quality Certification Laboratories provide specification tests round-the-clock. Ensuring standards are upheld, there is a backup of a qualified team of officers and refueling crew,”   website says. 
 
 ATF is dispensed from special refuellers that are driven up to parked airplanes and helicopters. Big airports have hydrant refuelling systems that pump the fuel right up to the filling outlets on the tarmac through underground pipelines for faster refuelling. ATF is pumped into an aircraft by two methods. “Overwing fuelling is used on smaller planes, helicopters…. Underwing fuelling, also called single-point is used on larger aircraft,” the IndianOil website says.
 
 Each flight’s fuel requirement is calculated by adding the ATF needed to — fly from origin to destination; hover at destination for some time; proceed to alternate airport (in case destination is out of reach due to bad weather or runway closure) and hovering at alternate for some time.
 
 Airlines and airports are awaiting the probe into Kolkata ATF-water contamination so that preventive measures for recurrence of such an issue could be taken.
 
 
