CHANDRAPUR: Almost seven decades after independence, 17 villages in Dhanora and seven in Etapalli, all located in trouble-torn Naxal bastion of Gadchiroli, have got power supply for the first time. Nearly 200 other villages in densely forested and hilly terrain of Gadchiroli still await power supply. MSEDCL has resolved to electrify them all by March 2018.

 Raju Holi, resident of village Dhusaguda, is happy as his children have seen the glowing bulb for the first time. “Living deep in the forest, we had no hope of seeing electric bulbs glowing in our houses. Thanks to the help of the district administration and MSEDCL officials, now our village has power supply,” he said. Located in dense jungle, 35km from tehsil headquarter Etapalli, Dhusaguda, with meagre population of 200, now has seven power connections.
 
 Chief engineer, MSEDCL  ,   walked more than 4km through dense jungle towards Naxal hotbed of Kasansoor to reach Dhusaguda and formally switched on the power supply to electrify the village. There is no road to Dhusaguda, hence everybody has to walk through the jungle to reach there.
 
 “Still our men took efforts and successfully brought the poles and transformers to the village, often using bullock carts. Then they successfully installed 3.09km long high tension line and additional 1.1km long low tension line to take power supply to Dhusaguda,” Ghugal told TOI. He claimed that MSEDCL personnel often used bullock carts and bicycles to carry the heavy electrical equipment.
 
 “Sometimes, they were forced to carry the heavy poles on their shoulders to destinations deep in the forest for lack of roads. Villagers of course readily helped in the task,” he added. He informed that more than 50km of power supply line was laid through mostly forested part to electrify the 24 villages in the two tehsils.
 
 He informed that the drive to completely electrify the rebel bastion of Gadchiroli had been launched on December 20, 2016. “Our target is to completely electrify Gadchiroli district by end of next fiscal year (i.e. March 2018). We have taken revised survey of the electrification status of the district and launched focused drive by identifying our priorities,” Ghugal said. The resurvey has added several villages to the tally of non-electrified villages, which had been given a couple of solar lamps and were declared electrified. Ghugal claimed that now they have concrete figures and every village will now be covered with conventional power supply.
 
 Superintending engineer, Gadchiroli MSEDCL circle, Ashok Maske informed that over 220 villages needed to be electrified when they began the drive. “We are focused on electrifying 90 villages in the first stage. The target is expected to be completed by April-end. Then we will focus on electrifying 60 more villages before onset of monsoon in June,” he said.
 
 Apart from monsoon hurdle, Naxal threat is yet another major factor in Gadchiroli district. “Our officers are braving security concerns, thanks to help offered by district administration and security forces. They are reaching places in dense forested areas, where none of our officers had gone earlier,” Ghugal said, lauding the hard work of his personnel.
 
 The seven villages in Etapalli that got power include Ekratola, Kudri, Kamke, Ropi, Paidi, and Jhupi, while the 17 villages in Dhanora tehsil include Markegaon, Puttargondi, Magdandtola, Rajutola, Kisneli, Mothazeliya, Lahanwadguda, Salaitoal, Margintotal, Urtoal, Kehakawahi, Dharmudatola, Yeranditola, Bhusumukudo, Dabba, Ranwhai, and Sivgata.
 
