VILLUPURAM:   has demanded that the   government grant autonomy to states as per the recommendations of the Sarkaria and Punchhi commissions. A resolution to this effect was passed at the party's social justice conference at Villupuram on Sunday to mark the 30th death anniversary of 21 protesters, who were shot dead during an agitation demanding reservation for other backward classes.

 The resolution criticized the Union government for removing five vital subjects, including education and health, from the state list and placing them in the concurrent list after Emergency. 
 
 “Even today the Union government has been attempting to curb the states’ rights by various means.   and services tax is one among the several ways in which   was meddling in the affairs of the states. The Union government has been attempting to convert state governments into decorated corporations sans power,” the resolution said.
 
 The party asked the Union government to make necessary provisions in the Constitution of India under Article 371 to grant autonomy to Tamil Nadu to solve issues like National eligibility and entrance test (Neet). The conference also resolved to urge the Union government to revoke Neet for medical and dental admissions, earmark 50% of medical seats for government school students, remove education from the concurrent list and include it in the state list and reservation based on the population of different classes.
 
 The party demanded that the Union government submit a white paper on the implementation of 27% reservation for the other backward classes in central government service. A resolution in this regard said just 12% of the other backward classes were given employment in Central government services as against the prescribed 27%. Similarly, PMK insisted that the Union government scrap creamy layer ceiling for the other backward classes quota. It urged the state government to impose total prohibition in Tamil Nadu.
 
 Earlier, addressing the gathering, party youth wing president and Dharmapuri MP Anbumani Ramadoss urged cadres to launch a jallikattu-like protest to pressurize Union government to initiate efforts to grant autonomy to Tamil Nadu, which will pave way for addressing issues related to Neet and other state-specific subjects. He declared that Neet was against the principles and ideologies of social justice.
 
 PMK founder leader S Ramadoss was of the firm view that there will not be any scope for change unless the money for vote culture was eradicated.
 
