NOIDA: At a time when the G B Nagar district is gearing up for the state assembly election, residents of Noida are still reeling under civic issues of encroachment, traffic snarls, blocked drainage and unattended garbage disposal.

 While old sectors and markets such as 11, 12, 18, 19, 20, 23, 29, 33, 55, 62 and 63 are yet to see the results of the numerous anti-encroachment drives conducted by the   earlier last year, the newer ones are facing a different kind of encroachment — that of builder construction material or sand and stones along dug-up roads. This is the sight in   where upscale societies like Aditya Urban Casa, The Hyde Park, Sikka Karmic Greens, Mahagun Moderne and   stand.
 
 Residents complain that one side of the Sector 78 road from Mahagun Moderne and then left towards the end till Antriksh society the road is dug up by builders, leaving only half the road for commuters. There has been no redress from the Noida Authority despite complaints from residents for the past three months. “There’s only one approach road to the sector, which is half blocked by this encroachment,” said Colonel (retd) P  , resident of Aditya Urban Casa, Sector 78.
 
 Chandra said he had posted his complaint to the Noida Authority regarding encroachment of public space (road area) by the builder (Mahagun Moderne) and their contractors. “All kinds of stone cutting are being done by occupying about 50% of the road width. The builder chooses not to use the space inside his compound and encroaches on the only access road in the sector.” He said that apart from causing a lot of inconvenience to pedestrians and residents, it results in a traffic bottleneck for autos, cars and buses during office hours. “The problem is further compounded now with some digging going on for cable laying work,” Chandra said. 
 
 According to Chandra, the encroachment of builder material extends to 300 feet and all the way to neighbouring Aditya Urban Casa. Another nearby society is Sethi Max Royal with branches of banks like ICICI in the vicinity. Since the sector is new and many builder flats are still in the completion stage, there is no designated RWA in the area. Hence the residents are forced to raise issues individually with the Authority. 
 
 Authority deputy CEO Saumya Srivastava said a team will be dispatched from the planning department to look into the matter. “We will take action once we receive the report from the planning department,” Srivastava said.
 
 
