CHENNAI: The placards came in handy for the group from   as they used the cardboards to fan themselves, prop them up and swat flies. Five hours later, they finally put them to their intended use. They listlessly waved and half-heartedly cheered as a woman bearing a vague resemblance to the leader they voted for made her way through the meandering lanes of Kasipuram, Tondiarpet. 

 "She does look a little like our  ," said K Saraswathi, when asked what she thought of   Jayakumar as a leader. Saraswathi was among a group of 20 women carted in from Tiruporur to show support for Deepa, who is contesting the R K Nagar bypoll as an independent candidate. "Where exactly are we? What is this place called?" asked S Bhuvana, who stood next to her holding a flag with a grainy picture of former chief minister J Jayalalithaa and M G Ramachandran 
 
 At 9.15pm on Wednesday, 45 minutes before the deadline set by the election commission to wind up campaigns every day, Deepa began her's from Kasipuram. By then, the crowd had dwindled to half the number. Some had meandered to the neighbouring alley, where a group pitched for O Panneerselvam's faction of the AIADMK. The drums there seemed louder and the dancers more raucous. A group of men formed a circle around the others, mostly comprising women and children, egging them on to cheer. 
 
 Deepa, with a bright sindhoor adorning her hairline, spoke, haltingly. She began by evoking the legacy of MGR and her aunt Jayalalithaa. "She was betrayed by (AIADMK's interim general secretary) V K Sasikala. Her benami government will fall," said Deepa, echoing speeches she had made in the past. After scanning the crowd quietly for a whole minute, she began again, "No power can separate me from you. I will make this constituency the best in the country," she said, as the crowd tiredly clapped and the tipplers enthusiastically cheered. The drum beats in the next alley touched a crescendo as OPS made his appearance, splitting Deepa's audience. The circle around them grew tighter. Regaining her composure, she wound up her speech. "I am one among you. I will bring change," she said, with her hands folded and head bowed as her vehicle cleaved the crowd.
 
 In February, after a lot of speculation, Deepa had floated her own outfit MGR  . Also vying for the vacant assembly seat are TTV Dinakaran and E Madhusudhan, who represent the rival factions of AIADMK. DMK's Maruthu Ganesh and BJP's Gangai Amaran are also in the fray. 
 
