BENGALURU: Debate keeps democracies alive and open; the exchange of ideas and ability to disagree using just words as weapons raises the bar for tolerance and allows for robust analysis of all aspects of an issue. To foster this, The   is holding a series of debates in leading educational institutions, and the first was at National Law School of India University (NLSIU), Bengaluru.

 Is the collegium system of appointing judges better than the  ? The 99th Constitutional amendment, introduced in 2014 and repealed a year later, relating to appointment of judges through a commission comprising judges and the executive remains a point of contention. On the other hand, the existing collegium system is a body of senior apex court judges headed by the Chief Justice, which recommends names for appointment as judges.
 
 FOR THE COLLEGIUM
 
 Arguing in favour of the collegium system were legal scholar and professor from   and NLSIU fourth year student Sarangan Rajesh Kumar.
 
 “The collegium was created in the 1990s, when the judiciary realized that government excesses were a reality and that there was an effort by the government to see that judges were appointed or superseded according to its whims and fancies,“ said Sarangan.
 
 Stating that protecting judicial independence is crucial and the collegium is essential, Baxi said: “Whether it is the collegium or NJAC, the process of appointment of judges is a blind man's buff. The question is not about the suitability of the collegium but how the collegium could follow a procedure to include more judges. We must ask ourselves if we are making a mistake in accepting any kind of arbitrariness in the judiciary or executive arbitrariness and if we think that executive arbitrariness is the answer to the judicial one,“ he said.
 
 IN FAVOUR OF NJAC
 
 On the other side of the debate, favouring NJAC, were  , faculty of public policy at NLSIU, and Jeydev CS, a fourth year student of the university.“Judicial independence can exist as long as you have checks and balances between institutions and houses of the state,“ said Jeydev. “The judiciary is often in a quandary about whether the Con stitution cannot be touched or if it is an evolving document. This indecisiveness reflects in a body of unelected individuals whose opinions are difficult to rationalise in some cases. The NJAC proposed to do away with this ambiguity,“ Jeydev added.
 
 Outstanding contributions to human rights jurisprudence have come from the judiciary, said Mathew. “But one must ask what the judiciary is currently doing about India's problems with growth, equity and poverty. What are the so-called by-products of the collegium system do ing to contribute to constitutionalism?
 
 While having an independent judiciary is worthwhile, should appointments be left to the judiciary only? The secretive ways of the collegium have not been able to guarantee transparency or competence,“ he said.
 
 THE VERDICT
 
 With 161 votes, students at the National Law School, Bengaluru voted for the collegium system as the answer to the appointment of judges. The NJAC got 118 votes of students who witnessed the debate at NLSIU.
 
