LUCKNOW: “What’s in a name? That which we call a rose, By any other word would smell as sweet.” 

 Recalling this famous dialogue from Shakespeare’s play Romeo and Juliet, the high court on Tuesday turned down a   formed by the Yogi government to check harassment of girls. 
 
 The Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court had received a public interest litigation filed by Rituraj Mishra who sought the change in the name of the squad on a plea that the use of the word ‘Romeo’ insults the literary character.
 
 “If the christening of the squad has been done for an honest purpose, then to co-relate it to an offence to literature without understanding the contents thereof is totally misplaced and does not give rise to a justiciable cause,” said the bench of Justice AP Sahi and Justice Sanaji Harkauli.
 
 “The measure is to prevent any annoyance or irritation or cause tension to any female while visiting public places. It is for the curtailment of an attitude that has developed in society, leading to a sense of insecurity, that the government has taken steps by naming it anti-Romeo squad. This does not necessarily mean that the state government or police are averse to the name and character of Romeo or that Romeo was an eve-teaser as understood in today’s context,” said the bench.
 
 The bench recalled that the play was widely known and has been staged throughout the world besides being a subject matter of study in English literature in institutions. However, it addded that the story “was borrowed, and emanated about a century earlier in 1497 from a story on the streets of Verona (Italy), where poetry and other anecdotes were written, long before Shakespeare wrote this play.” 
 
 It then said that those who study literature and may have read ‘Romeo and Juliet’ often forget that the same play debates the significance of a name, or lack of it. The court referred to a dialogue in Act II Scene 2 of ‘Romeo and Juliet’.
 
 It goes, “What’s in a name? That which we call a rose, By any other word would smell as sweet.” 
 
 All hue and cry about a name having been used has been raised without even referring to the context, the bench added. 
 
 
