PATNA: Most of the Bihar universities are likely to figure prominently in the list of ‘defaulters’ to be displayed soon on the   website for their failure to maintain its Minimum Standards and Procedure for Award of PhD Degrees Regulations, 2016.

 The UGC, in its circular issued a few days back, has asked the universities to upload their data pertaining to PhD scholars to their websites within the next two months failing which their names would be included in the list of defaulting universities and displayed on the UGC’s website. The deadline ends on May 10.
 
 Earlier, in September 2016, the UGC had directed the universities to undertake certain procedures with regard to the maintenance of minimum standard of research work and the award of PhD degree. These procedures related to the eligibility criteria for admission to the MPhil/PhD programme, duration of the programme, procedure for admission, allocation of research supervisor, course work, setting up of research advisory committee, evaluation and assessment methods and submission of electronic copy of MPhil or PhD thesis to Information and Library Network (INFLIBNET), an inter-university centre of the UGC.
 
 As per clause 5.6 of the regulations, the universities were supposed to maintain the list of all the MPhil/PhD registered candidates as per the format suggested by the UGC. The data to be displayed on the university’s website would include the details of faculty, department, supervisor, PhD scholar (with Aadhaar number and photo ID card), mode of PhD, registration number, date of registration, topic of research and likely date of completion of PhD. However, no university in the state could undertake this exercise during the last six months, drawing the UGC ire.
 
 Now, through its recent reminder, the universities have been asked to upload the details regarding PhD within two months and send a dedicated link to the UGC. The universities have also been advised to send a scanned copy of the data duly verified by the dean (academic affair) to the UGC.
 
 The UGC’s revised PhD guidelines, 2009, were implemented in the Bihar universities in 2014 when the same were approved and assented to by the chancellor. The UGC Regulations of 2016 are yet to be implemented properly in the state universities, said a senior official of Patna University, adding that most of universities would be on the defaulters list even if the deadline in extended by a couple of months.
 
 
