PUNE: Men, beware! The Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) is planning to impose fines on those occupying seats meant for women,   and people with special needs.

 Speaking to TOI on Monday, Sushma Kolhe, the chief executive officer of PMPML, said that they were also planning a major awareness drive to make people aware of the rules and regulations and request them to abide by them.
 
 “This point has been raised by those who travel by buses regularly. According to them, men occupy the seats meant for ladies and senior citizens and do not vacate them even after repeated requests. We cannot let this go on,” the official said.
 
 Kolhe pointed out that before finalising the penalties, there was a need to initiate an awareness drive.
 
 “We have noticed that in many cases, the conductors too have tried to intervene but they have been opposed by commuters. During peak hours, buses remain crowded and no one wants to vacate the seats. If pestered, they tend to get angry and conductors refrain from antagonising them even if they find women or senior citizens standing in the bus. This attitude needs to change so an awareness drive is important,” the official added.
 
 Sources in the PMPML said that with an agency presently preparing the business plan of PMPML and also carrying on-board surveys, the campaign will be initiated from the same platform.
 
 “Apart from informing the passengers who are seated on the reserved seats, they need to be told what to do whenever a lady enters the bus and looks for a seat. There are quite a few people who have no idea about the reserved seats. The buses have the information written above the windows but many don’t read it. Bus conductors and drivers will be told to inform the passengers about the same and announcements can be also started on the bus rapid transit system,” another official pointed out.
 
 Kolhe said the amount of fines have not been finalised as yet.
 
 “Once the campaign ends and the PMPML finds people violating regulations, the idea of slapping fines and penalties will be considered. However, if fines are levied, the same needs to be done carefully according to a system or else the bus conductors, drivers and other passengers may face a backlash from passengers who are being fined,” the official pointed out.
 
 Passengers have hailed the step. “It is a courtesy to vacate seats meant for women and senior citizens. However, the same doesn’t happen in public buses. These small things will make a lot of difference and attract more passengers to the service,” Ashwini Shingote, a resident of Kothrud said.
 
 
