NEW DELHI:  , the brother of 22-year-old Anuj who died in 2008 following an accident with a  , opened up about him following the verdict sentencing Utsav  , the accused, to two years in jail.

 “He was two years younger than me. I got a call from his friend that they were not able to get in touch with him. It was his birthday on September 5 and he was with us on that day,” he said.
 
 The family lives in Ghaziabad and they suggested that Anuj live in Delhi where his college was. They planned to watch a movie as a part of Anuj’s birthday celebrations. “He called me and praised the movie after watching it. He asked me to watch it, but I just cannot,” said Kshitij. 
 
 “My ankle was broken. I was given a lot of steroids and drugs during treatment. That had severe side-effects including water retention,” said  , a freelancer who survived the  .
 
 Srivastava along with Anuj, who was riding pillion, had left a theatre in Saket after watching the night show of Rock On on September 11, 2008 when a car, allegedly being driven by the son of a Haryana businessman 18-year-old Utsav Bhasin rammed into them. 
 
 While their mother has not attended a single family function, the father hardly says anything. While the judgment was being pronounced, he sat outside the room.
 
 Anuj and Mrigank were best friends. “I was shocked when the serious charge (Section 304 IPC) was dropped against Utsav as not only had I lost my best friend, but a family had lost a son,” he said. According to Mrigank, Anuj had “awesome” investigative instincts and a great knack of digging into things. “He would have made a remarkable investigative journalist,” said Mrigank.
 
 “I do not have a food bag and my food pipe shrank due to post recovery complications,” said Srivastava.
 
  For three years between 2012 and 2015, he was admitted to a hospital five times and the last time he had to undergo bariatric surgery. “I suffered for no reason. I was driving, but I never broke any traffic rules.”
 
 During arguments, his lawyer Pankaj sought compensation for Mrigank saying he had lost the foremost period of his professional and personal life.
 
 
