AHMEDABAD: In what could bring much needed clarity for realtors and consumers, the state government is all set to issue the remaining rules and regulations of   ( ) Act, 2016 ( ) this week. The process to appoint an interim   is also on.

 Gujarat government has not yet notified rules and regulations for some sections that were announced by Union ministry of housing and urban poverty alleviation on April 17, 2017.
 
 “All the rules and regulations of the remaining sections, which the Union ministry notified last month, are ready and the same will be notified in next few days, most probably on Thursday,” said a source in the state government. “Currently, these rules are with the legal department. Once they clear these regulations, they will be notified,” he added.
 
 On October 29, 2016, the state had notified rules pertaining to the state regulatory authority, its functions and powers, appellate tribunal among others. However, it is yet to notify rules for sections 3-19 of the Act which mainly pertain to real estate developers and deal with registration of realty projects and registration of real estate agents among others. 
 
 “Earlier, the state urban development and housing department chose to notify rules of only those sections, which were announced by the central ministry,” said a source. “With the remaining sections notified by the Centre in April, the state government is now gearing up to do its part and notify the rest of the rules under the Act,” sources added.
 
 The appointment of regulatory authority is also under process. “A selection committee was formed for the purpose and soon an interim authority will be appointed,” said sources privy to the development.
 
 Experts and real estate players opine that appointment of the regulatory authority is crucial for effective implementation of the new realty law in state, and the process of the appointment should be accelerated. 
 
 The state government needs fast-track development of a website, as required under the law, for uploading all information regarding projects and promoters. The state has also formulated regulations for real estate appellate tribunals and it will be formed after the regulatory authority is in place, said sources in the government.
 
