Ludhiana: A fight between two neighbours of Preet Nagar, Tajpur Road, turned ugly when one of them fired at the other on Tuesday afternoon. A bullet hit a 28-year-old man from the back. He was rushed to civil hospital, where his condition is stated to be stable. Four others, including two women, have suffered minor injuries in stone and brick pelting from both sides and from sharp-edged weapons.

 The injured have been identified as Beeru Ram, who sustained a bullet injury, Mandi Ram, Amarjeet, Neelam and Rajni.
 
 Neighbours Beeru and Mahinder Singh have an old rivalry over land. Earlier, too, they had indulged in scuffles. The situation got worse when Deepak, 16, nephew of Beeru, went missing on Saturday and the family accused Mahinder of kidnapping him. Beeru had lodged a kidnapping complaint with Tajpur Road police post.
 
 In his statement to the police, Beeru said when he asked Mahinder about kidnapping his nephew, he started fighting with him. He called about seven accomplices and attacked him. They pelted him and his family with bricks and stones and they retaliated in self-defence, he said. “Mahinder then opened fire at me,” he added.
 
 During stone and brick pelting, father and uncle of Beeru, Amarjeet and Mandi Ram, and two daughters-in-law of Mahinder, Neelam and Rajni, suffered minor injuries.
 
 SHO of division number 7 police station inspector Bikramjit Singh said, “Both the neighbours don’t have cordial relations. The family of Beeru is alleging that Mahinder and his family pushed Deepak into drugs and also kidnapped him. When Beeru complained to them about it, Mahinder and his accomplices attacked them.” 
 
 An attempt to murder case has been registered against Mahinder, his family and his associates. “Mahinder has also been booked under the Arms Act,” the SHO added.
 
 Cases shoot up
 
 August 16: Gill Road association president Satinder Singh Tony fires in air after a group of youths thrashes his son and nephew 
 
 August 8: Former sarpanch of Jhammat village fires at a youth, Sukhpal Singh, outside his house in South City 
 
 July 31: Three vegetable vendors, Johny, Jatinder Jassa and Sahil of Shimlapuri, fire shots in air following a scuffle
 
 
