AURANGABAD: The   has granted conditional bail to Devesh Pathrikar, son of a local politician, who was convicted by the local court here on the charges of abetment to suicide. 

 The Supreme Court bench comprising of   and Justice Ashok Bhushan granted bail to him and simultaneously requested the high court to expedite the hearing in this case as early as possible.
 
  bench of the Bombay high court had refused to grant any relief to the convict on March 23, following which the convict represented by a battery of lawyers including senior counsel Harish Salve, Siddharth Luthra, Bansuri Swaraj and Abhay Bhosale approached the Supreme Court.
 
 The lawyers representing the convict contested that the revision against the conviction order has already been admitted by the Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court, but only the bail was rejected.
 
 The lawyers also contested that the convict has been on bail since 2005. Meanwhile, he has also completed his doctorate and is currently employed as an assistant professor. They brought it to the notice of the   that the convict does not have criminal antecedents, except for this offence and he has not misused the liberty granted by the court earlier. 
 
 The HC in March this year had rejected the bail plea of Devesh Pathrikar, son of a prominent   leader Dattabhau and sent to three years rigorous imprisonment in 2013 for abetting suicide of another party leader’s daughter in December 2005.
 
 The incident had sent shockwaves among the political circles in 2005-06, when Shweta alias Rani Borse, a computer engineer, committed suicide holding Devesh responsible for her actions.
 
 In her suicide note, she accused Devesh of lacing her soft drink with some sedatives and taking obscene photographs. She alleged that he was blackmailing her using those photographs.
 
 On January 15, 2013, following a trial, the assistant sessions judge S B Kharche, had sentenced Devesh to three-years rigorous imprisonment and a fine of Rs 5,000.
 
 The state government had then appointed a well-known criminal lawyer Harshad Nimbakar and the then additional government pleader at Aurangabad Rajendra Mugdia as the special public prosecutor and special additional public prosecutor in the case, respectively. They continued to represent the state before the court of additional sessions judge S G Shete, before whom Devesh had challenged Kharche’s verdict. However, additional sessions judge on February 28 rejected his plea and had also rejected his application seeking time to surrender. Subsequently, he was taken into custody and sent to Harsul central prison. Meanwhile, his bail plea was pending with the high court, which came up for hearing before justice T V Nalawade. Senior counsel Shirish Gupte and lawyers Joydeep Chatterjee and Bhosale sought bail for Devesh citing various judgments. He was granted bail during pendency of his trial.
 
 The government pleader Amarjeet Singh Girase argued that “offence committed by the accused/applicant is serious one and while suspending substantive sentence the court has to be very careful”.
 
 He also submitted that “instead of granting bail, the appeal can be expedited and heard finally”. Following the arguments, while rejecting the bail application justice Nalawade observed “prima facie there are reasons to believe that the accused has committed serious offence and that there is prima facie evidence to that effect on record, the accused is not entitled to be enraged on bail”. 
 
