PATNA: Parts of the state may witness light rainfall on Saturday following the western disturbance which caused rain in New Delhi on the Republic Day, according to   meteorological centre forecast on Friday.

 India Meteorological Department (IMD), in its midday bulletin on Friday also forecast scattered rainfall over Bihar during the next 24 hours under the influence of the western disturbance.
 
 “After causing snowfall and rain in the northern states, including Jammu & Kashmir, Delhi and Uttar Pradesh, the western disturbance has moved towards Bihar. Besides, it has led to formation of an induced cyclonic circulation over Rajasthan and neighbouring region. The two weather systems have together led to formation of clouds over almost across Bihar,” said S Sengupta, director of Patna meteorological centre. Apart from light showers, he also forecast mist during early morning hours over the next couple of days.
 
 The prevailing cloudy condition may also lead to slight fall in day temperature. Sengupta said the maximum temperature in Patna and most other places in the state is expected to remain around normal.
 
 Incidentally, a gradual surge in temperature was being observed in the state over the past few days, which was mainly attributed to bright and clear skies. For instance, the maximum temperature in Patna on Republic Day was recorded at 28 degrees C, which was four notches higher than the normal temperature during this period.
 
 The local Met office has predicted the maximum temperature in Patna to be in the range of 22 to 24 degrees C, while the minimum is to be around 13 to 15 degrees C over the next couple of days.
 
 This is, in fact, the first rainy conditions in Bihar this winter season under the influence of a western disturbance. Western disturbances are low-pressure areas or extratropical storms originating from the Mediterranean Sea, Red Sea and Caspian Sea, which cause winter rainfall in northwest Indian subcontinent.
 
 Winter is, however, expected to bid adieu after the western disturbances over the region. “We are expecting temperature to gradually rise after January 29 without much possibility of any fall in mercury column thereafter,” said Sengupta.
 
 Usually, winter bids goodbye to the state in the second week of February. In meteorological parlance, it’s winter in Bihar if night readings stay below 13 degrees C.
 
 
