PUNE: The recent diagnosis of two   ( ) cases in Pune has set alarm bells ringing with   calling for a close watch on the situation. 

 These two might just be the 'index cases' - earliest identified occurrence of a disease - and must be closely monitored to ensure that the situation does not spiral out of control as sometimes it can lead to an outbreak, the experts cautioned.
 
 "Cases of viral encephalitis occur around the year, but we may be under-diagnosing JE as the test availability is not widespread. Emergence of these two cases is not worrisome, but it alerts us that JE virus is present in the surroundings of Pune and we have to watch closely as more cases might come in. It may just be the beginning of an outbreak situation," infectious diseases expert Bharat Purandare of Deenanath Mangeshkar hospital said.
 
 JE is rarely seen in clinical practice and this is the first time in Pune that two cases have been detected. "Personally, I have seen three cases in last six years of my practice here. The disease is surely under-diagnosed due to non-specific signs and symptoms. Doctors here need to keep a high index of suspicion and work up each case of viral encephalitis to a specific diagnosis to find out which virus has caused that encephalitis," Purandare said.
 
 Sharing the view, consultant neurologist Bhushan Nilkanth Joshi of Columbia Asia hospital said, "In Pune, I have not yet seen any cases of JE in my regular practice. However when I was in Kolkata earlier, I had diagnosed several cases of Japanese Encephalitis."
 
 Referring to the detection of JE infection among two students in Pune, Joshi said, "JE is a disease which has been rarely observed among urban population. As for the detection of the two cases in the city, the vectors of the JE virus most probably have originated in other cities and sustained themselves for a long period of time. But, there is no reason to panic as man-to-man transmission of this disease is not documented." 
 
 "Most of the JE virus infections are mild in nature and approximately only one in 250 infections result in severe clinical illness. Besides, safe and effective JE vaccines are now available to prevent the disease," he added.
 
 Clinically, it is quite difficult to differentiate between JE and other forms of viral encephalitis. The early symptoms of JE usually manifest as fever, headache, neck stiffness, and disorientation. Seizures and spastic paralysis may occur over the long term. The treatment for JE is used as a supportive method to relieve symptoms and stabilize the patient.
 
 State surveillance officer of the health department Pradip Awate said, "We have already intensified surveillance in the areas where JE cases were detected, including the areas in Pune city and Solapur. Currently, fever surveillance is underway. We have asked our staff to send blood samples of suspected JE patients to Pune-based   (NIV) for testing." 
 
 Meanwhile, district civil surgeon, medical health officer at the Municipal Corporation, district health officer and deputy directors of administrative regions have all been directed to frame an action plan to deter further infection. Also, health officials have been told to ensure that the state-run hospitals have adequate supply of the required medication including anticonvulsants, antibiotics, emergency medicines and injections.
 
 "The hospitals which lack these medical devices have been asked to purchase them immediately," Awate said.
 
 
