Given her illustrious lineage, it is no surprise that   is constantly being measured up with a different yardstick than most actresses. And after a string of films like Puli, Vedalam and Si3, where she had to play second fiddle to a much-bigger star, the actress is now all set to be the driving force of a film with Sundar C’s big-budget period fantasy Sangamithra. Speaking to Chennai Times, Shruti says that she is honoured to have been chosen for such a prestigious project. “It’s too early to reveal details on the project. All I can say for now is that it’s every actor’s dream to get a wonderful role like the one I have in the film. It’s fantastic that it happens to be the central character, especially in a film of this genre, and I’m looking forward to working very, very hard for it,” says the actress.

 She says that work on Sabash Naidu, in which she is teaming up with her father,  , is likely to begin soon. “Papa has been on a quick and miraculous road to recovery following his injury and we are very happy about that. Once he is completely ready, we will start shooting for Sabash Naidu, which I’m looking forward to complete,” says Shruti. The actress reveals that she was gutted when she heard of Kamal’s fall. “I was out of the country then and was worried. But I also knew that if there is anybody on earth who can be the toughest and quickest in recovering, it has to be my father. So, deep down, I knew he would be fine. He has really got a willpower that I have not seen in most people, and these things do not affect him very much,” he says.
 
 The actress is unfazed about the criticism over her roles in the films she has done with top stars like Ajith, Vijay and Suriya. She says that she doesn’t necessarily agree to the notion that it is difficult for a heroine to get a strong role in films headlined by a top star. “My first Tamil film, 7aum Arivu, had a fantastic role for me, turning it into a dream debut. Yeah, sometimes, the role isn’t amazing, but that has nothing to do with the film having a star or not. It has got everything to do with how your role is written and presented. In a commercial film, like Si3 for example, it is obviously centred around Suriya sir’s character. But I’ve got positive feedback for the role,” she says.
 
 In a society that quickly typecasts actresses, Shruti has managed to be taken seriously as a singer and a musician. But she says that she does not set out to break perceptions of her. 
 “I don’t think I’m defying stereotypes on purpose. If it so appears that way, so be it. For me, I’ve been brought up that way. My mother herself is a very independent woman, and I’ve had a leading example in this respect. And my father is a very liberal father who has always taught us to question things. He lives life on his own terms and stands by his beliefs. So, he has also been a great example,” she explains.
 
 Her collaboration with British Alt Rock band, Dinosaur Pile-Up, made some buzz last year. And Shruti reveals that rather than an album, fans can expect “a bunch of singles.” “This is the time of singles and we have to move ahead with the times. I’m focusing on more collaborations,” she adds.
 
 She feels that working with various musicians has expanded her musical thinking. “I’m trained in classical music, and my favourites have always been rock ‘n roll and blues, but I’ve grown up with different kinds of music around me because of my parents. When I work with different musicians, I draw a lot of things from them and that has really expanded my musical thinking. So, every time I finish a session with a musician, I walk out with a feeling that you get when you have had a hearty breakfast — very satisfied, full and creatively energized,” she elaborates.
 
 It is when talk turns to the personal side of her life that Shruti becomes guarded. She thinks the rumours that blamed her for Kamal splitting up with Gautami as “totally ridiculous”. As for the increasing buzz around her relationship with London-based  , she says, “I’ve never spoken about my personal life. And I’m not really going to start opening up on it now. I hope people can respect that.”
 
 
