CHANDIGARH: As city was drenched in the celebration of World   Day on Monday, TOI got birders to share the pictures of sparrows they clicked last and where. As per birders, in last 20 years the numbers of the house sparrows have drastically gone down.

 “Their habitat has been destroyed with extension of cities. When I shifted to Mohali a few years ago, there were 25 to 30 pairs of sparrows but now only 11-12 pairs are left. The reason is extension of Mohali. When I shifted, entire area around sector 70, Mohali, was that of fields but now it is all housing that led to house sparrows shifting away. People can put up nests and offer food and water to them at home,” said M S Sekhon, president of  .
 
 He added, “There are 12 pairs of house sparrows which live in my garden. They have been here since I shifted to my house in 2002.” On seeing many sparrows, he started keeping feed and water for the birds as well as grew trees in the garden. “I have put nest boxes at home and many birds, including sparrows and squirrels, are nesting in them. These pictures have been taken in my garden by me,” he said. 
 
 “House sparrow has moved to the periphery like Saketri, Kaimbwala, Chapparchiri and then up to the hills like Parwanoo, Kalka and Shimla. The reason could be lack of nesting areas due to modern architecture and lack of food,” said Rima Dhillon of Chandigarh Bird Club.
 
 Birders said there are few areas in the city where they can be spotted. “There are pockets in Chandigarh where house sparrows can be seen and are also breeding in Sectors 35, 38 West, 22, Mohali and Manimajra,” Dhillon added.
 
 Raja Sharma, Panchkula resident who is studying in SD college in Sector 32, has made multiple nests at his home for sparrows and shares that the supermarket culture too has let to decrease in number of sparrows. “Earlier, there used to be shops and enough grain spilled on floors, inside and outside shops. But, now with supermarkets taking over and everything available in packets, it has changed. They like eating grains from the grass and due to lack of fields in city they have shifted to periphery area,” he added.
 
