BENGALURU: Soon, schoolchildren in   may get to savour chocolate-flavoured milk for five days a week under the  .

 An official of the   (KMF) said they had recently introduced three varieties of flavoured milk in some schools of Belagavi and other districts on a pilot basis and found out that most students have a special likening for chocolate-flavoured milk. 
 
 “We are now gearing up to supply flavoured milk powder from June and awaiting the government’s nod,’’ he said.
 
 The beneficiaries of Ksheera Bhagya have been demanding that the government provide them with flavoured milk. Many students refuse to drink the milk supplied to them due to bad smell and high water content. Some students and parents had recently complained to chief minister   at a public interaction programme that the milk given to their children was of poor quality and short of fat and vitamins.
 
 There have been reports about illegalities in milk powder distribution where officials and teachers allegedly diverted or sold unused powder in open market.
 
 Taking this into consideration, the state government had asked the   (CFTRI) to produce three different flavours of milk powder, including chocolate, vanilla and badam. 
 
 A senior official of the finance department said the government has been dilly-dallying on the issue since chocolate-flavoured milk powder would cost more. At present, Rs 510 crore is being spent annually to provide milk thrice a week to 39 lakh anganwadi children and 62 lakh students in government and aided schools. 
 
 “As the government is planning to extend it for five days a week from June, it will require an additional Rs 300 crore. And if it wants to supply chocolate-favoured milk, it may need an additional Rs 50 crore. As it is a huge financial commitment, the government had been delaying its implementation,” he added.
 
 But now several legislators, including some senior ministers, have been batting for flavoured milk for schoolchildren. Tourism minister Priyank Kharge said: “It would be good if children are given chocolate-flavoured milk.”
 
 Additional chief secretary to Karnataka government K Ratna Prabha too endorsed his views and said: “Why only children, even adults love flavoured milk.’’
 
 
