JAIPUR:  , which was identified as one of the districts with worst child sex ratio (CSR) in Census 2011, has been selected for “effective community engagement” for valuing and respecting the girl child under   ( ). 

 The ministry of women and child development has selected Jhunjhunu as one of the 10 districts in the country to be felicitated and recognised for its good performance in Beti Bacho Beti Padhao in the category of “effective community engagement”.
 
 The ministry of women and child development is celebrating National Girl Child Day on January 24 in New Delhi. “The day is being celebrated with the objective of raising the consciousness of the society towards the girl child so that they are valued and respected. BBBP was launched on January 22, 2015,” K Moses Chalai, joint secretary, ministry of women and child development, mentioned in a letter sent to Jhunjhunu district collector Pradeep Kumar Borad.
 
 Women and child development minister   said that various programmes had been initiated in Jhunjhunu for the girl child. The good work has attracted the attention of the Centre. 
 
 In Jhunjhunu, the child sex ratio (CSR) was 837, which was lowest in the state, as per Census 2011. 
 
 After that, the district has made a significant progress in sex ratio at birth. From April 2015 to March 2016, the sex ratio at birth in Jhunjhunu was 903. Thereafter, it increased to 944 during April 2016 to December 2016. 
 
 Jhunjhunu is one of the 14 districts of the state which are covered under Centre’s Beti Bacho Beti Padhao. Nationally, 161 districts are covered under BBBP. 
 
 Richa Khoda, commissioner, women empowerment, said, “Selection of Jhunjhunu as one of the 10 best performing districts under BBBP in the country has come as an encouragement for us. Now, we will implement the programme in a more effective way.” 
 
 According to the officials in Jhunjhunu, various initiatives were taken like planting samplings on birth of girl child, sending greetings to parents on birth of girl child, oath taking ceremonies were organised in schools, in government offices awareness was spread on the importance of girl child. Moreover, a brand ambassador for BBBP has also been roped in.
 
