NAGPUR: “There is a need to implement the ideas of great people like   and Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar. People following the thoughts of these great heroes is not enough, there is a need to bring their deeds in your life,” said Sudhir Gavhane, former vice chancellor of Yashwantrao Chavan Open University, on Wednesday.

 Gavhane was speaking at a lecture ‘Mahatma Basweshwar to Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar — Parivartanladhachi Upayukta’, organized by Nagpur University in memory of late Dada Manohar Kallawar. Gavhane said, “In 12th century, Mahatma Basweshwar was a rebel who wanted to bring revolution for women equality and empowerment. Many other saints and great leaders in 18th and 19th century followed his road map. This shows his vision towards needs of the society.”
 
 “Every great leader needs a grand vision, but today people are shackled in their own ideologies and not able to look beyond it. Politics has become a domain for some select people who will endorse some selected ideologies. As Daniel O’Connell said, ‘Nothing is politically right which is morally wrong’. Politicians must follow it,” added Gavhane.
 
 Referring to research by a professor from Bengaluru, Gavhane said, “There are only 12% good people being elected in elections and 24% belong to criminal background. Most people get elected by spending tonnes of money. The citizens of India must introspect on what basis they are electing candidates.”
 
 “There are many micro minorities groups, like female in our rural areas who are still not able to acquire education. The empowered feminist class in our country does not bring these issues forward, no policies are suggested by them to help such minorities,” added Gavhane.
 
 Referring to great liberal heroes like Mahatma Phule and Shahu Maharaj, Gavhane said, “Both of them worked for the deprived class without recognizing their caste. And now a days people who say they follow the ideology of Shahu Maharaj protest against reservation while demanding the same for themselves.”
 
 Abhay Kallawar, national vice president of  , said in his address, “In today’s world, we must encourage and endorse humanity in education from KG to PG, only then will the ideas of humanitarianism of Mahatma Basweshwar and Dr Ambedkar thrive.”
 
 Vice chancellor Siddharth Vinayak Kane, pro-VC Pramod Yeole, and registrar   were also present.
 
 
