MUMBAI: About ten days ago, 75-year-old Bhimaji Dongre who lives on the top floor of a three-storey building in Vile Parle, fell and fractured his limb. The 46-year-old building has no lift, and its staircase is so narrow, any attempt at transporting a patient strapped onto a stretcher to the ground floor takes over an hour, with both muscle power and ingenuity thrown in for good measure. So a doctor, a portable X-ray machine and a consignment of cotton, plaster and elastic bandage to mould a cast were taken up the stairs instead.

 “What should have cost not over Rs 4,000 cost us Rs 9,000,“ said Rajesh Dongre, the son. The Dongres are just one of the families residing in the airport funnel zone of Vile ParleSantacruz that has over 100 senior citizens, most over 80, under “house arrest.“
 
 These are elders with geriatric problems like arthritic limbs, spondylitis etc who haven't ventured out of their 1 or 2 BHKs in years.
 
 Chandrashekar Pradhan (84), who lives on the top floor of a 1964-built two-storey building, moves out once a year.This year, the event took place on July 2, when they transported him downstairs for a trip to Saputara.
 
 “He can't attend family functions and can't meet his friends, so his social life has been affected. The WHO (World Health Organization) recognsies these as social determinants of health,“ says his son Dr Ashutosh Pradhan, adding his father's health has been on the decline ever since he was confined to his room five years ago after an accident. Then in April 2015, he fell in the bathroom.“I rushed in, examined him, he hadn't sustained a fracture and so I asked him to get up.But he he couldn't. So I bent down to lift him and got severe pain in my back. Being a doctor, I realized it was a col lapsed disc,“ he said. He was advised an MRI. “But it is difficult to get a stretcher down the stairs and I did not want to take a risk, so I stayed home for two weeks and when I recovered a bit, I slowly climbed down the stairs to get an MRI,“ he added.
 
 The person who has seen it all is 98-year-old Shankar Netravali. He was a manager with Warner Bros in Chennai before he retired. The relatively-healthy   lives on the second floor of a building in Vile Parle East with his wife, who has reduced mobility . “I have not left my flat for four years,“ he said. He met with an accident which damaged his ankle.
 
 Another senior citizen was forced to sell her flat and move to Pune after her husband developed geriatric problems that left him confined to his upper-floor flat. She learnt the real-estate market too had educated itself about the “special status“ of their buildings.
 
 She had to sell the flat for Rs22,000 per sq ft, as against that Rs40,000 per sq ft that buildings located just 100 m away , which aren't under the funnel, command. But for “Parlekars,“ the bigger loss is having to move out of this locality with its lanes lined with copper pod, gulmohur, laburnum trees and a vibrant culture scene to boot. “All her life she lived in Vile Parle, she cried for hours when she had to move out,“ said Vishwajit Bhide, one of the affected residents.
 
