PUNE: Two days after TOI reported that at least   of   had been asked to bring   from their homes to write the Marathi subject paper as part of their year-end final exams, the   (PCB) on Monday distributed answer sheets to students of three high  .

 These schools are located in Wanowrie, Solapur Bazaar and Ghorpadi. The final exam will end on April 13.
 
 PCB chief executive officer D N Yadav paid surprise visits to Mahadji Shinde High School-cum-Junior College in Wanowrie and Ambedkar High School in Ghorpadi to check if his instructions for supplying answer sheets to students before the start of the exams was followed or not.
 
 While interacting with school heads, Yadav was shocked to learn that his office was not supplying stationery to them for several years. The situation had compelled teachers to collect money from parents and provide answer sheets to students at the time of year-end final exams.
 
 Yadav told TOI, “I have found that there were lapses on the part of school heads as they did not make requisition for supplying answer sheets to students on time. I want schools to impart quality education to students. I have issued instructions to heads of primary and high schools to make requisition for whatever facilities they want for the students and the same will be provided to them.”
 
 “I will soon hold a meeting with school heads and teachers for taking an overall review of the performance of students and discuss problems faced by them, among other issues,” Yadav said, adding that he had appointed two psychologists in 2016 for identifying students whose performance was not up to the mark so that their morale could be given a boost.
 
 Priyanka Shrigiri, chairman of the PCB education panel, said following the TOI report, “I had pulled up the concerned authorities for negligence and dashed off a letter to Yadav to ensure that a provision in the annual contract be made for supplying stationery to schools for the next academic year, so that students coming from lower middle-class were not forced to purchase answer sheets for writing exams.”
 
 A school official said, “Yadav has promised to look into the problems. The students were full of smiles when we distributed answer sheets to them.”
 
