KOLKATA: The Bengal government’s affidavit in the Calcutta high court, in response to the petition that led to the order regarding deployment of more central forces in Darjeeling, specifically mentioned that   from “a neighbouring country” had crossed over to India and would be targeting government officials and property in Darjeeling and Kalimpong districts.

 “There is a serious intelligence report that Maoists from a neighbouring country have infiltrated the area and are going to target government officials working in the Hills and burn down government buildings,” the affidavit filed by additional director-general (law and order)   states.
 
 The state government is finding it difficult to pull out officers from the Left Wing Extremism-affected districts and so only additional forces can be deployed in Darjeeling and Kalimpong, the affidavit states. “There are also specific intelligence inputs that Maoists from Jharkhand are crossing into Bengal and will make strong attempts to regroup in the LWE-affected districts of Bengal if forces are withdrawn from these districts,” the affidavit states. Three Bengal districts, Bankura, Purulia and West Midnapore, are designated as LWE-affected.
 
 The affidavit submitted that the situation had “aggravated immensely and miscreants are now burning down government offices, police stations, private houses and private vehicles”.
 
 “Police vehicles and buildings have been torched without provocation. The life and property of general people and their livelihood are in danger. Miscreants, with the help of conspirators, are using bombs and firearms and continuing their subversive and insurgent activities. The situation has reached an alarming stage,” it states.
 
 The government affidavit, predictably, has drawn a sharp response from the  . “The state government, on one hand, wants us to participate in talks. But it does not hesitate to call our democratic movement an insurgent one. This is the reason why we have demanded talks with the centre only,” party spokesperson Binita Roka said.
 
 Police officials claim that training of young men for the Gorkhaland Personnel (GLP) has begun in full swing across the Hills, particularly in Gorubathan’s Upper Fagu. Both the GJM and GLP though has countered the charges. Retired colonel and former in-charge of GLP Ramesh Allay maintained that the GLP was a democratic force. “It isn’t correct if you compare our training to that imparted to Maoists in Nepal or insurgents in the northeastern states. The training here is to take on government repression democratically,” he said.
 
 
