NAGPUR: Bor, the country’s smallest tiger reserve located in   district, has become completely inviolate with Navargaon, the lone village inside it, being relocated.

 Navargaon, occupying an area of over 218.75 hectares and having a sizeable human and cattle population, put huge biotic pressure on Bor, which is just 138.12 sqkm.
 
 “Now Bor has become inviolate completely and two more tigers to the existing six can adjust in the vacant area,” said assistant conservator of forests (ACF) GP Bobde.
 
 Pench Tiger Reserve, which also has jurisdiction over Bor, started the rehabilitation process of Navargaon in 2012-13 by holding meetings with villagers, who were mostly from Gawli and Sutar communities. Gawlis are mostly involved in cattle rearing and milk business and hence there was huge grazing pressure on Bor.
 
 Continuous efforts by forest officials yielded fruits and finally villagers agreed to shift after getting convinced about the facilities they would get outside the forest.
 
 Bobde said as many as 311 families have been shifted near Khadki on way to Wardha. Over Rs75 crore have been spent on relocation. This includes Rs10 lakh per family package and a ready reckoner rate of Rs18 lakh per hectare for farm land.
 
 “The actual process of shifting started after the department gave Rs2 lakh to each family as mobilization fund. Now, the entire village has been rehabilitated,” says Bobde.
 
 The forest department paid compensation of Rs31.10 crore under Option I and made available alternate land. Some tribals and Sutar families shifted at the new site provided by the department at Khadki while some Gawali families preferred to shift to Bhiwapur.
 
 Now, the families which have shifted to Khadki have constructed houses and the forest department has provided facilities like internal roads, electricity, drinking water etc
 
 Even if Navargaon has been shifted, there are still 15 villages situated around the reserve. Bobde says that these villagers are learning to live with wildlife as their level of understanding about protection and conservation of flora and fauna is high. They have never harmed tigers even if it killed their domesticated animals.
 
 Pench officials said Shree Bhagwan, who was then chief wildlife warden, closely monitored the activities. He had given priorities to shift   village in Pench, Palasgaon in   Tiger Reserve (TATR),   and Talai in   in order to make these tiger reserves free from biotic interference.
 
