MUMBAI: A   tribunal (MACT) recently held that if you sleep on the street and are run over by a truck, you are equally responsible for the mishap.

 Halving the compensation to be awarded to the family of a man who was killed by a reversing dumper truck when he was asleep on   in 2007, it observed, “Roads are meant for traffic of vehicles and not for sleeping at night. It was the responsibility of the injured to not sleep on the road. He should have at least slept on the footpath.“
 
 The tribunal ordered   and  , owner of the dumper truck, to pay only 50%, or Rs 9 lakh, of the total insurance amount of Rs 18 lakh to the family of the 35-year-old man.
 
 Victim Prakash Shukla's family--wife Rekha, two children and parents--filed the claim before the tribunal on March 4, 2008.
 
 The accident took place on November 2, 2007, around 4.45am outside the victim's Sewri home.
 
 Shukla was sleeping on a corner of the road and the truck was reversing to unload stones and clay.
 
 The family alleged that the dumper truck's driver reversed speedily . They claimed that the driver neither took the assistance of the cle aner nor blew the horn to alert the victim. After he was run over, Shukla was immediately rushed to   where he was declared dead on arrival.
 
 An FIR was registered against the driver for negligence. The family said that Shukla worked at a medical stores and earned a monthly salary of Rs 6,000. They sought compensation.
 
 In the absence of any defence from the driver or the insurance company , the tribunal proceeded with the matter ex parte.
 
 The tribunal said on the basis of police papers, there appeared to be contributory negligence on the part of the vehicle's driver as well as the deceased.
 
 “No doubt, it was the responsibility of the driver to take proper care while reversing the vehicle. It appears that the deceased was sleeping on the road in a corner.This shows that the deceased himself was also negligent.Considering this fact, I hold that in this accident, the deceased and the dumper driver are both 50-50% negligent,“ the tribunal said.
 
