NEW DELHI:   ( ) founder  , estranged from his son who's party president, said on Monday that he doesn't plan to form a new party "as of now", but did add that he "doesn't agree with many decisions" made by his son  .

 Talk heated up again about a split in the SP, when on Saturday Mulayam and his brother   stayed away from a state convention of the party saying they were not invited, PTI reported. Speculation was rife that Mulayam will on Monday announce a new party by joining hands with the virtually defunct Lok Dal.
 
 Not yet, said Mulayam on Monday.
 
 "I am not forming a new party as of now," said Mulayam at press conference he called.
 
 When asked what he felt about the current leadership of the party - in the hands of his son Akhilesh - Mulayam said his son has his blessings, but not necessarily his approval.
 
 "He is my son, so my blessings are with him, but I don't agree with his decisions," said the SP founder and former SP supremo.
 
 Akhilesh, in his address at the Lucknow convention, reportedly cautioned against "fake samajwadis" or "fake socialists". At the same time, he expressed deep respect for his father.
 
 "Netaji (Mulayam) is my father and this party (SP) belongs to him. His blessings are with us and we will carry forward his legacy. My father has always been with us and will remain with us," said Akhilesh, according to PTI.
 
 Yet, posters at the SP convention in Lucknow didn't have pictures of Mulayam or Shivpal. 
 
 The convention saw a realignment of forces within the SP as senior leader Azam Khan attended the event and lashed out at the "people who have betrayed the party", in an apparent reference to Shivpal, his one-time friend and confidant, said PTI. 
 
 Another surprise presence was that of SP Parliamentarian Beni Prasad Varma, whose inclusion in the party last year was said to have triggered the battle within the family. 
 
 The Yadav family feud came to the fore about a year ago and led to Akhilesh grabbing the SP national president role from his father at an emergency national convention of the party on January 1. He then took full control of the party after being crowned its head and allotted the 'bicycle' symbol by the Election Commission on January 16.
 
 
 
 
 
 
