GURUGRAM: Reeling under financial crisis,   has not been able to pay the electricity bill for its two water treatment plants at Basai and Chandu Budhera. 

 Now, the power discom has issued a week’s ultimatum to the urban development body to clear Rs 3.37 crore of dues and threatened to   in case of non-payment. And if that happens, all of Gurgaon will run dry.
 
 Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam’s (DHBVN) executive engineer Ranjan Rao told TOI on Thursday the discom has issued notices, mainly to big defaulters, for recovery of dues. “Rs 3.25 crore is outstanding for power supplied to the two Huda-run plants, along with a surcharge amount of Rs 12 lakh. All the defaulters have been given a week’s time to settle the dues, else supply will be disconnected,” he said.
 
 A total of 11 high-power motors work round the clock at the two water treatment plants at Chandu Budhera and Basai, and the three boosting stations in sectors 5, 16 & 51. Huda usually pays its bill in the first week of every succeeding month, but it has not been able to pay April’s bill till now. 
 
 “We are having financial issues. We have written to the head office in Chandigarh for funds for paying the electricity bill to ensure continuous supply of water to the city,” said a Huda official.
 
 At present, the city needs 90 million gallons per day (MGD) of water, of which 70 MGD is supplied by the Basai water plant, while the remaining 20 MGD comes from the Chandu Budhera plant. The Basai and Chandu Budhera plants get Yamuna water from Kakroi village in Sonipat through 70-km-long Gurgaon Water Channel and NCR Channel. While Chandu Budhera plant has storage capacity of 14 days’ supplies, Basai plant has storage capacity of 5 days’ supplies.
 
 On May 2, the chief administrator of Huda, Vikas Gupta, and the principal secretary of department of town and country planning (DTCP), Arun Gupta, held a meeting to review the ongoing projects of the urban development body and assured sufficient funds for the same.
 
 The state government has also given an approval to Huda for getting a loan of Rs 1,000 crore, and the urban development body is hoping to overcome the financial crisis with the same, officials said. 
 
