Newly-wed Dhyan Sreenivasan and Arpita Sebastian looked totally adorable in colour coordinated black attires during their wedding reception. The duo was all smiles throughout the event, and their long-time camaraderie was most visible in their mannerisms.

 As the couple stepped on the dais, daddy dearest Sreenivasan and his wife Vimala, big brother Vineeth Sreenivasan and his better half Divya Narayanan were very much elated to host Dhyan’s special day. The splurge of celeb friends, family and the joyous vibe around made it all the more different, and the shutterbugs were such a having a field day, the venue was actually getting crowded. Actress Gayathri Suresh and Prayaga Martin, who looked ravishing and equally glamourous, were in great delight when they met, and had a lot of time to catch up on each other.
 
 Mammootty made his presence felt, wearing a black chequered shirt and mundu, which has been his USP for a while now, and as always he looked his charming best. Among the youth brigade was actress Rajisha Vijayan, who chose to flaunt her ethnic side by wearing a black sari.
 
 Dhyan’s partner in crime in many of his films, actor Neeraj Madhav ensured to be part of the function. Malayali heartthrob, actor Tovino Thomas, looked as dapper as ever. Also seen was actor BIju Menon, Janardhanan, Jagadeesh, Mukesh, Vijay Yesudas, Vidhu Prathap, Jyotsna, VInay Forrt and Reba John, among many others.
 Actress Asha Sharath, looked like a dream in a cobalt blue sari, captured all attention, and her look was so astonishing that it could give any hip youngster a tough competition.
 
 Amid the merriments, what kept the guests talking was Sreenivasan’s quirky way of treating the invitees to organic food. As they were wondering about the cuisine, everyone was in for a surprise as a platter of sumptuous items such as mutton biriyani, fish biriyani, among many others were served, and it was so lip-smacking that any quintessential foodie would have had a gala time around at the occasion.
 
