KOLKATA: The BSF has told the Union home ministry that almost a quarter of the infiltrators who entered India from   in 2016 used the Bengal  .

 Now, with Bangladeshi security agencies stepping up the heat on terror operatives in Sylhet and other regions, BSF has stepped up security along the   with Bengal. While joint patrolling is being carried out by state police and BSF, unfenced portions are under close watch. Technological solutions to tackle infiltration are also being worked upon by BSF.
 
 “We are aware of the developments in Bangladesh, on which we are keeping a close eye. We have alerted troops patrolling across the border,” said a BSF spokesperson in Delhi. “A lot of developments are taking place, and using technology for enhanced surveillance is also being thought of,” he added.
 
 While BSF officials would not put a figure to the infiltration, sources said almost a third of illegal crossing-over happened through the Bengal border. On March 21, TOI had reported that the Bangladesh government had sent a report to the Union home ministry over the recent spike in terror modules from the neighbouring country. The report claimed HuJI and JMB activists were also taking routes like Assam and Tripura.
 
 The movement also comes close on the heels of Union home minister Rajnath Singh saying the border along Bangladesh will be gradually sealed. He had also pointed at the changing the rules of engagement along the international border.
 
 The militant hideout in the neighbouring state’s north-eastern district Sylhet was stormed by commandos and the Rapid Action Battalion (RAB) on Saturday. At least six were killed and 50 injured in the blast that took place in Sylhet on Saturday. Security forces surrounded the area to flush out the terrorists through the operation named Operation Twilight.
 
 Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Sunday condemned the terror attack in Bangladesh. “Strongly condemn the suicide attack in Sylhet,” she tweeted, adding, “My solidarity with brothers and sisters in Bangladesh”.
 
 Apprehending infiltration across the border, joint patrolling by BSF and state police has been beefed up and intelligence network has been put on alert to spot suspicious movement across the border. “There are some unfenced areas along the border, which are causes of concern. We are focussing more on these areas,” the BSF spokesperson added. A BSF source said that since Tripura is closest to Sylhet, militants might try to sneak in through the Tripura border. “But we are also keeping an eye on Bengal, as the state shares a border with Jessore and Khulna,” said an official with the security force.
 
