LUCKNOW: In a first, NITI (National Institution for Transforming India) Aayog vice-chairman Dr   will meet state authorities of Uttar Pradesh on May 10 to draw up a plan for extending help to the   government to boost the state’s economy and transform the face of UP. This is the first time a delegation of Niti Aayog, whose chairman is Prime Minister Narendra Modi will visit a state. Panagariya will lead a 25-member team to the state.

  spokesperson and state health minister Siddharthnath Singh said   had been writing to the state government even before Yogi came to power expressing willingness to assist in planning and development of the state for the past two years but there was no response. 
 
 During a recent meeting of UP chief minister with Niti Ayog officials, the former invited them to UP and chalk out detailed strategy on various parametres of development, said Singh. 
 
 Singh said that discussions would broadly be under the Transforming Uttar Pradesh programme, aiming to double farmers’ income in the Agriculture sector, enabling ease in doing business, improving health sector, nutrition, rural development, water, sanitation and education. 
 
 He added that increase in farm produce and production was state government’s top priority. Singh added that discussions will be held on using technological know-how to encourage qualitative farming. Encouraging ease of doing business, implementation of start-up and standup schemes of the Centre would also be discussed. Since the state government has decided to launch e-tendering, suggestions would be invited in this regard too, the UP government spokesperson said. 
 
 Along with Panagariya, Niti Ayog member Ramesh Chandra, its CEO Amitabh Kant, seven secretaries of various Central government departments, two additional secretaries and 13 senior officials would be present in UP on May 10. Along with chief minster Aditya Nath Yogi, his cabinet ministers and officials of departments concerned will also be present, said Singh. 
 
 
