PATNA:  's giant-killing spree finally came to an end under the lights at  , in the men's final of the  . Unfortunately though, the 15-year old's exuberance couldn't match  's experience.

 Coach  's record survived to see another day .
 
 While Sourabh basked in the joy of his second national triumph, Rituparna Das made light work of ninth seed Reshma Karthik. Seeded second, Das hardly broke a sweat as she went past Karthik 21-12, 2114 to grab her maiden senior national badminton championship. The 21year-old girl from Hoogly in West Bengal and settled in Hyderabad made up for her slow start with impressive drop shots as Karthik found it hard to respond.
 
 While the Prannoys and the Danis had been conquered, Lakshya's effort on a warm Tuesday afternoon looked pale compared to his herculean feats earlier in the tournament. At best, Sourabh was challenged but never stretched as the third seed comfortably notched up a 21-13, 21-12 win.
 
 It was sheer anti-climax to a plot which had promised to reach it's fruition in the final.
 
 Having got the better of his younger sibling, Sameer in the semis, Sourabh appeared to continue from where he had left, drawing the first blood with a delicate drop shot at the net. Not to be outdone, the world No. 1 in junior rankings responded in style with two deft drop shots getting him off the mark.
 
 Taking an early 4-3 lead in the first game, Lakshya appeared to ha ve settled into his rhythm, retrieving Sourabh's powerful smashes with precision and alacrity . With the public sentiment firmly backing the teen prodigy , Lakshya seemed to hold sway over the proceedings, albeit briefly.
 
 Getting a measure of his opponent, Sourabh quickly turned the tables on Lakshya with a barrage of smashes, including two consecutive points, to wrest back the initiative. Indulging in long backline rallies, the India No. 5 slowly but surely took the game away from Lakshya's grasp as the Uttarakhand teenager apparently looked to run out of ideas.
 
 With the crowd anticipating another comeback masterclass from the reigning national junior champion, Lakshya began the second game on a disappointing note twice missing his mark with the overhead smash.
 
 Sourabh, however, encountered no such problems as he continued to pulverize Lakshya out of the contest with his powerful crosssmashes on either side. Not the one to give up easily , the 15 year-old did manage to produce some exquisite drop-shots of his own, coupled with his accurate smashes. The writing on the wall, though, had already become apparent. A shot wide to the right of Sourabh finally bringing down the curtains on an encounter which promised galore but delivered too little and too few.
 
 Previously having twice made it to the finals of the tournament, Das seemed determined to add the trophy to her kitty while Karthik wilted under the pressure. Known for her fighting prowess, Karthik could muster little against a rampaging Das, finishing second best in the women's singles.
 
 
