KOCHI: In an effort to   about  , the   (DoT),  , organized a workshop for   at collectorate on Tuesday.

 Speakers highlighted the importance of mobile connectivity across the state and emphasized the need for deepening collaboration between public, government and industry for the progress of Kerala. “There's more radiation in the mobile than from a mobile tower,“ was the message.The DoT has already prescribed norms for exposure li mit for the radio frequency field, which is more stringent than the existing limits prescribed by ICNIRP and recommended by WHO.“Our electromagnetic frequency (EMF) norms are stricter than what is followed by many developed nations,“ said Sunitha C, deputy director general (Telecom Enforcement, Resource & Monitoring Cell), Kerala. District collector K Mohammed Y Safirulla said there is a misconception in villages on EMF emission and installation of towers should be allowed in their respective locality. “There is no scientific evidence backing the claim that EMF radiation from mobile towers, which are below the safe limits prescribed by the International Commission on Non-ionizing Radiation Protection (ICNIRP) and recommended by the World Health Organization (WHO), can cause adverse health effects,“ said T Sreenivasan, director TERMDoT.
 
 Dr Chandramohan K, additional professor of Surgical Oncology, Regional Cancer Centre, Thiruvananthapuram referred to the EMF Project of WHO, in which over 50 nations and 8 international organizations are involved.
 
 Together, since 1996, they have been reviewing scientific information to provide sound and objective answers to public concerns about the possible hazards of low-level electromagnetic fields. Despite extensive research, to date there is no evidence to conclude that exposure to low-level electromagnetic fields is harmful to human health.
 
 “Strict monitoring and enforcement mechanism has been put in place by the DoT for EMF-related compliances. In case any BTS site is found to violate prescribed EMF norms, actions are taken to put a penalty of Rs 10 lakh per BTS per incidence, including closing of BTS site in case violation persists,“ Sunitha said.
 
