NAGPUR: The Bharatiya Janata Party-ruled   has nominated   — a second time corporator and close aide of chief minister   — as the new trustee of the   (NIT). This is the second term for Shingane as in 2015 he had replaced BJP corporator Ravindra Bhoyar.

 Ruling party leader Sandip Joshi nominated Shingane’s name after the mayor raised the question in the house. As soon as the house ended, supporters of Shingane celebrated outside the Town Hall.
 
 Meanwhile, the Congress party has also filled up its three-member quota in the 16-members standing committee. The party has nominated Manoj Sangole, Harish Gwalbanshi and Sayyeda Begum Ansari.
 
 The general body meeting has also gave its nod to formation of 10 consultative committees. 
 
 The Estate and Projects Committee will have nine members headed by BJP corporator Sanjay Bangale as a chairman. Other members of the committee included Vice Chairman Abhay Gotekar, Sushma Chaudhary, Pallavi Shamkule, and Dr Jyoti Dekate, all BJP; Congress corporators Rashmi Uike, Purshottam Hazare and BSP’s Mohd Jamal.
 
 Similarly, in the 9-member health committee, BJP’s Manoj Chaple has been appointed as chairman, while the other members included five BJP corporators Pramod Kourti, Lakhan Yerawar, Vishakha Bante, Vijay Chutele, Congress corporators Bhavana Lonare, Asha Uike and BSP’s Vandana Chandekar.
 
 While first time woman corporator and lawyer Meenakshi Telgote has been appointed as chairperson for law consultative committee. The other members of the panel included five BJP corporators Vishakha Mohod, Amar Bagde, Savita Chakole, Congress corporators Harshala Sable, Gargi Chopra and BSP’s Jitendra Ghodeswar.
 
 Teacher by profession and first time BJP corporator Dilip Diwe has been given the charge of education committee. Other eight members of his panel included Snehal Bihare, Swati Akhatkar, Vijay Jhalke, Rajendra Sonkusre, Pramila Mathrani, Congress corporators Ujwala Bankar, Darshana Dhawad and BSP’s Mohd Ibrahim.
 
 Senior corporator Chetna Tank has been nominated as chairperson of Dalit Basti Nirmulan Samiti and other members included Vandana Yangatwar, Sunil Hiranwar, Durga Hattithele, Mangala Khekre, Congress corporators Sneha Nikose, Manoj Sangole and BSP’s Narendra Walde.
 
 While Sanjay Balpande has been nominated as chairman of Fire Brigade and Electrical Committee and other eight members included Pramod Chikhle, Virendra Kukreja, Lahukumar Behete, Rajkumar Shahu, Vanita Dandekar, Congress corporators Saeeda Begum, Harish Gwalbanshi and BSP’s Mamata Sahare.
 
 In Sports committee, Nagesh Sahare has been appointed as chairman and other members included BJP’s Pramod Tabhane, Pradeep Pohane, Kanta Rarokar, Neha Waghmare, Sanjay Chawre, Congress’s Dinesh Yadav, Ramesh Punekar and BSP’s Niranka Bhivgade.
 
 In Women and Children Welfare Committee, Varsha Thakre has been appointed chairperson and other members included Shraddha Pathak, Laxmi Yadav, Divya Ghurde, Vandana Bhagat, Parinita Fukey, Congress’s Sakshi Raut, Jisan Mumtaj Irfan and BSP’s Vaishali Narnavre.
 
 Rajesh Ghodpage is the chairman of Water Works committee and other members included BJP’s Mahendra Dhanvijay, Deepak Chaudhary, Gopichand Kumre, Sheshrao Gotmare, Rupali Thakur, Congress corporators’ Neha Nikose, Zulfikar Ahmed Bhutto and BSP’s Sanjay Burrewar.
 
 Senior BJP corporator and former standing committee chairman Avinash Thakre has been appointed as chairman of Tax consultative committee and other members included Yashasvi Nandanwar, Sonali Kadu, Madhuri Thakre, Sheetal Kamde, Vandana Bhure, Congress’s Parasram Manvatkar, Tanaji Vanve and BSP’s Mangala Lanjewar.
 
 Apart from formation of these 10 committees, the house has authorized the Mayor to nominate two members on Special Purpose Vehicle formed under Smart City Mission. Since BJP and Congress have their members on this committee, one each nominee of   and   could be nominated. Also a one-member committee headed by former Mayor Pravin Datke has been formed to look into increase in charges of NMC’s shops and establishments.
 
 
