BENGALURU: It’s that time of the year again, when Ma Durga, along with Lakshmi, Saraswati, Ganesha and Karthik, descend for five days – Sashti, Saptami, Ashtami, Navami and Dashami, ringing in celebrations and festivities galore. From hailing the goddess with aartis and yagnas to digging into delicacies and raising the glam quotient in their traditional best, Bengali women and men are in their element on these days. 

 In Bengaluru too, the diaspora is prepping for the festive week ahead. With over 50 well-known Durga Puja celebrations, it is just not Bengalis but also the entire city that wakes up to happiness, a confluence of varied traditions, several cultural, social events and delicious savouries.
 
 For the Bengali community in Bengaluru, Dasara celebration begins with Mahalaya Amavasya that marks the end of Pitripaksha and the beginning of Matripaksha. While traditionally the men of the family make an offering to their ancestors in the Ganges, here the day starts in the wee hours with Chandipath – a recital on the war between Durga and Mahishasura (the buffalo demon), observed as the victory of good over evil.
 
 This year on Mahalaya Amavasya, the city witnessed a Prabhat Pheri – an early morning cultural procession in JP Nagar, with women in traditional red and white saris singing Agomoni songs to welcome the goddess. 
 
 On the sixth day or Sashti that marks the beginning of Puja, Bengali mothers fast for their children’s well-being and ready the goddess through a ritual called Bodhon. On Saptami, the seventh day, Ma is given a grand bath – mahasnan and a banana plant is worshipped as Lord Ganesha’s wife, marking the sacredness of the occasion.
 
 The eighth day or Ashtami is considered to be the day of grandeur where Ma Durga is offered pushpanjali and worshipped by all her devotees, followed by an appeasing lunch of mahabhog or prasadam. The end of Ashtami and beginning of Nabami, the ninth day, marks Sandhi Puja, where the goddess is believed to come to life. Women offer 108 lotus flowers and light up as many diyas for the well-being of their families. 
 
 Dashami or the tenth day marks Durga visarjan. Married women bid farewell to the goddess and apply vermilion on each other’s forehead and face, popularly known as Sindoor Khela. Visarjan is followed by youngsters seeking blessing of elders. 
 
 Apart from these rituals, the city hosts a series of social activities, cultural shows, fun games for children and delicious feast for five days, virtually unravelling a microcosm of rural Bengal in the heart of Silicon Valley.
 
 “On the seventh day, we’ll have 60 underprivileged children from city NGOs taking part in the joyous occasion. While throughout the year we support these needy children in their education and provide them medical aid, we want them to be a part of Durga puja celebration as well,” said Aninda Chatterjee, a senior member of Utsav Puja Committee organizing their event at Shree Kala Mantap, JP Nagar, 3rd Phase.
 
 Bengali in Bangalore, another puja community in BTM Layout, will showcase the essence of ‘Gram Bangla’ or rural Bengal through their pandal. “Devotees will see Ma Durga in Pancha Durga avatar settled in a dalan bari (rural farm house),” said a member of Bengali in Bangalore.
 
 
 
 · Sarathi Socio-Cultural Trust, Koramangala, will host Baul, Bengali folk music, traditional and contemporary Bengali songs, retro Bengali and Hindi songs and contemporary Hindi songs all five days.
 
 · Poorva Bangalore Cultural Association at VSR Convention Hall, Brookefield, Kundanahalli, has arranged for community ‘khichri bhog’.
 
