JAIPUR:   and former minister   on Thursday asked the state government to frame a separate law to fix the   at 68%. He also sought free electricity for farmers, MNREGA works in their agriculture fields and implementation of the   committee report.

 Tiwari said a law on fixing quota upper limit cannot be stayed by any court, as the states had the power to do so. He claimed that in the Indira Sawhney case, the Supreme Court permitted states to set upper limits beyond 50% also.
 
 “The assembly should pass a ‘Rajasthan State Reservation Upper Limit Imposition’ law,” Tiwari said, adding that it would allow the state government to grant 5% quota to Special Backward Classes (SBC) and 14% quota to Economically Backward Class (EBC), besides the existing 12% for SC, 16% for ST and 21% for OBC communities.
 
 Participating in the debate on the Governor’s address in the assembly, the senior BJP legislator said government in the meantime could recruit against vacancies, while keeping aside 5% posts for SBC and 14% for EBC candidates.
 
 Tiwari blamed the state government for the fate of 4500 candidates currently stuck in Supreme Court since the SBC quota Act of 2015 stood quashed by the Rajasthan high court. “Six states allowed quota in excess of 50% but their laws were not stayed; the court is only hearing those cases. The reason being, those laws were placed under Constitution’s Schedule IX,” Tiwari said, asking the state government to do same with the SBC quota Act.
 
 The BJP leader, while referring to the Kota incident where his party MLA’s husband was accused of slapping a police officer, said the government work to uphold the dignity of lawmakers as well as of the police officials. Tiwari said, as per protocol, every legislator was above the state’s chief secretary.
 
 Tiwari once again blamed the state government for the controversy over the Bollywood flick “Padmavati” and said director Sanjay Leela Bhansali was not singly responsible for it. “It is not a matter of Karni Sena or the Rajput community only. It is about the entire nation’s sentiment. Distortion of our history and culture cannot be accepted,” he said. Tiwari further demanded that the ban on Tonga-races in Nagaur be lifted.
 
 
