JAIPUR: The in-service  , who were found ineligible for getting benefit of incentives for selection in  , were seen rushing to   of   to get certificates for serving in  .

 The health department had issued a list of in-service doctors on April 6, claiming that they had served in tehsil areas, which came under urban areas. Since, urban areas are not included for getting incentives, the health department held them ineligible for getting the benefits.
 
 However, the health department had given such in-service doctors time to provide proof that they had served in rural areas. 
 
 For instance, the health department held an in-service doctor, who claimed that he had served in a tehsil, which is not a rural area, ineligible. But, the candidate rushed to the sarpanch of the gram panchayat. The sarpanch issued him a certificate that the area where he had served was a gram panchayat.
 
 Another doctor presented certificate issued by development officer, panchayat samiti, that the population of the region, as per census, was 3,867 and it came under tribal area. 
 
 Officials said that seven in-service doctors have got relief as they were found eligible for incentives under the post-graduation quota for in-service doctors posted in rural areas, on the basis of documents submitted by them. 
 
 Meanwhile, on Friday, the high court had issued an order to the government to grant weightage of marks, assigned to in-service candidates, in the form of incentive, for determining their merit in NEET examination, 2017, in terms of provisions in Post Graduate Medical Education Regulations, 2000.
 
 The court had further directed the government that while treating in-service doctors who are serving in hilly/desert/tribal areas as ‘difficult areas’ and other rural areas as ‘remote areas’ as identified by the government, the government is directed to grant them weightage of marks, assigned to in-service candidates in the form of incentive, for determining their merit in NEET examination, 2017.
 
