CHENNAI:  's proposed   revamp plan will pollute the city less as the   has decided to make   a key link - apart from incinerator units - in the  . 

 Alterations will be made to packages three and four of the civic body's four-part (each called a package) 1,442-crore solid waste management revamp plan, which TOI reported in June. According to the initial proposal, the city's landfill sites at Perungudi and Kodungaiyur would be shut and, in its place, the civic body would set up two waste-to-energy incinerator plants. 
 
 During a stakeholder's meet held in July, residents disapproved of the corporation's plan to prioritise investment in incineration units at the expense of bio-methanation and composting plants. Subsequently, the civic body's technical review committee, chaired by the special officer and commissioner D Karthikeyan, met and discussed the feedback received from residents.
 
 "It was decided that bio-methanation will be included as a key link in the process chain. This alteration will incur an additional expenditure of at least 10 crore, which will be spent primarily on setting up the bio-methanation plants," an official told TOI. 
 
 As regards packages one and two, which envisages privatising 70% conservancy operations, the official said tenders will be called for soon. Though residents opposed the idea of privatisation during a stakeholder's meet held in June, the city corporation is set on going ahead without major alterations to the proposal.
 
 Meanwhile, the civic body is stepping up its effort ahead of the October 2 deadline for source segregation. According to officials, distribution of flyers and awareness material has picked up speed. Messages promoting a 'Litter Free Chennai' have been reaching residents' doorsteps in the core city area.
 
 From October 2, the corporation will collect non-biodegradable waste on Wednesdays while wet waste will be collected on other days. Residents will also be required to separate wet, dry and domestic hazardous waste in separate bins. However, awareness on the system is yet to catch up in extended areas. "Our waste collector did not intimate us of such an announcement. We continue to give mixed waste," said B Nirmala, a resident of Alandur.
 
 "We will need to collect reports in the weeks after the change is enforced before commenting on its effectiveness," a senior official told TOI, when asked for a response. To improve awareness, the civic body will hire 200 animators under the Swachh Bharat Mission fund at an estimated cost of 1.15 crore. 
 
 
