Mumbai: Vijay Mallya’s famous   has finally been sold. After failing to find any bidders at multiple auctions, lenders have agreed to dispose the auction through a negotiated sale to actor-businessman  . 

 Joshi is understood to have paid marginally higher than the last reserve price of Rs 73 crore. According to practice, banks are allowed to search for buyers if they do not get any response after failing to auction a property. When contacted,   chairman Arundhati Bhattacharya confirmed that there was a sale but did not divulge the name of the buyer.
 
 The 32-year-old actor’s website describes him as the vice-chairman of   of companies, which is the holding company for all his diverse business interests. The website describes his business interests as ranging from fitness centres to health space. Joshi, who owns Viking Media and Entertainment, has starred in Hindi movies including Aazaan, Mumbai Mirror and Jackpot.
 
 The sea-facing palatial villa, situated in Candolim,  , had earlier attracted interest from at least half a dozen players in the hospitality industry and a media group when it was opened for inspection to interested bidders during the end of September and early October. However, the reserve price of Rs 85 crore did not result in any buyers. 
 
 Subsequently, lenders made another attempt to sell the villa in December when they brought down the price to Rs 81 crore, again without success. The last auction took place in March 2017, with a lower reserve price of Rs 73 crore.
 
 The 17-lender consortium led by SBI took physical possession of the property in May 2016 after a long legal battle with United Spirits over tenancy rights. Lenders managed to attach the villa two months after Mallya held a party in the same venue to ring in his 60th birthday. The party was attended by Spanish pop singer Enrique Iglesias and Sonu Nigam.
 
 The villa was owned by United Breweries Holdings and mortgaged by   Airlines to the consortium of banks to obtain loans in 2010. The villa is among many movable and immovable properties under lenders’ possession, which they are trying to auction to recover Rs 9,000 crore from Mallya.
 
 
