Surat: The textile markets on Ring Road are decked up with colourful lightings during the Diwali every year. For the first time, these markets will not be decorated as a mark of protest against the central government for not accepting demands of the textile traders on the Goods and Service Tax (GST). 

 Most of the textile markets on Ring Road have unanimously decided not to illuminate the buildings for Diwali. The traders have also decided not to burn fire crackers and distribute sweets during the festival season. Messages in this connection have gone viral on social media urging the traders to stay away from Diwali festivities. 
 
 Former president of Federation of Surat Textile Traders Association (FOSTTA) Devkishan Manghani said, “For textile traders, Diwali got over with roll out of GST on July 1. The government is not supportive and traders have decided not to celebrate Diwali this time.”
 
 Manghani added, “After the GST implementation, the textile business has gone down by almost 70%. Many small and medium traders have been hit hard. The demand for saris and dress material has gone down in the last two months.”
 
 A textile trader Naresh Paliwal said, “There is no question of celebrating Diwali when the business has hit rock bottom from the last two months. The GST has ruined the textile trade. We have decided not to illuminate the market this Diwali to register our protest.”
 
 There are 165 textile markets housing more than 70,000 textile shops in the city. The textile traders have been doing turnover of saris and dress material to the tune of Rs 115 crore per day. The goods are supplied in different states, including Uttar Pradesh, Punjba, Kolkata, Maharashtra, Delhi and Tamil Nadu. 
 
 FOSTTA president Manoj Agarwal said, “We had organized the ‘sadbuddhi hawan’ in textile market against the GST. The hawan was performed by traders in order to appease the central government to provide relief to the traders in GST. The traders have decided not to illuminate the market during Diwali festival to mark their protest.”
 
 
