PATNA: The Bihar government seems set to take a tough stance on the agitation of the Bihar chapter of IAS Officers’ Association against the arrest of former BSSC chairman Sudhir Kumar in connection with a job scam with CM Nitish Kumar on Tuesday talking of a “landmark decision” on the bureaucrats’ stir.

 “Everyone is equal before law. No action is taken on face value,” a visibly indignant CM said in the state assembly, apparently referring to the association’s demand that IAS officers should not be arrested.
 
 The CM looked determined to give a piece of his mind about the “kucch ka kuchh bayanbaaji” on the issue. “Aap chup rahiye. Pehle meri baat sunn lijiye. Kuchh baatein main on record rekhna chahta hoon,” the CM reacted as   MLA Prem Kumar sought to interrupt him.
 
 The CM said he had read in newspapers about the association’s memorandum to the governor. “The media reports said the association will send a copy of the memorandum to me. I am waiting... I will read each and every word and get the memorandum thoroughly examined in the context of existing legal and constitutional framework. Thereafter, appropriate action will be taken, which will prove a milestone in governance,” he said, asserting that no one, not even the state government, could interfere in an ongoing investigation.
 
 Nitish also minced no words in expressing his displeasure over the   and Bihar Police Services Association’s demand for revoking the suspension of Patna and Saran officials in connection with the boat tragedy which claimed 24 lives in Patna on Makar Sankranti on January 14. 
 
 “You (officials) are doing ‘naukri’. Aap kuchh bhi kariye karrwai na ho. Aisa kanoon hai kya (Which law says that no action will be taken against you, no matter whatever you do)?” the CM fumed.
 
 Speaking on the ongoing investigation by a Patna Police’s SIT into the job scam, Nitish said: “We expect the SIT not to be influenced by statements or pressures. They should conduct unbiased investigation, and should not spare anyone found responsible. Nor should they implicate anyone who is innocent,” he said.
 
 Rejecting the opposition demand for a CBI probe into the job scam, the CM said demanding CBI probe had become a “fashion”. The CBI was asked to probe the killing of   founder Brahmeshwar Singh and murder of journalist Rajdeo Ranjan. “What facts came out of the CBI probe beyond the findings of the state police’s investigation?” he asked.
 
 The IPC and CrPC, Nitish said, prescribe investigations by police. “If the BJP so wishes, it should move a private member Bill for amendment to the IPC and CrPC in the assembly to get the powers of investigating such cases. The ruling alliance will help them get the Bill passed and if the President gives assent to it, we will love to appoint BJP-nominated party leaders as investigating officers in cases like question paper leak,” the CM said.
 
 BJP members walked out of the House in protest. 
 
 
