Puducherry: Eight-six postgraduate medical seats in various disciplines under government quota in private medical colleges and deemed universities are lying vacant at the end of second counselling session hosted by the Centralised admission committee ( ) on May 11.

 The committee proposes to hold another counselling shortly after the fees committee announces the fee structures in private institutions to fill up vacant seats under government quota.
 
 The committee sent call letters to 127 candidates for counselling on May 11 to fill up 121 seats under government quota. 
 
 Seventy-eight candidates attended the counselling session and 35 of them were allotted seats in private institutions. The committee also invited 650 candidates from other states for admission into postgraduate courses under the management quota. However only 49 attended the session and 41 of them were offered seats in the private institutions. 
 
 The committee has sent call letters to 1,179 candidates from other states to appear for counselling on May 12 to fill up seats under management quota.
 
 “Most of the candidates from other states might have joined postgraduate courses after paying fees. Only those who failed to secure seats have attended the counselling session hosted by the committee,” said a Centac official when asked for the poor turnout of candidates for the counselling sessions.
 
 Moreover the fees committee has not finalised the fees structures in private institutions and candidates were reluctant to attend the session as the private institutions have been demanding exorbitant fees.
 
 Meanwhile Pondicherry state students’ and parents’ welfare association president V Balasubramanian charged that the private institutions have not surrendered 50% of the seats in the diploma programmes offered by them. 
 
 ‘The private institutions have not submitted any information on the diploma courses they are offering so far to the committee. We have raised the issue and sought the committee to seek 50% of the seats in diploma courses under government quota,” said Balasubramanian.
 
 
