Coimbatore: It has been 14 years since the Coimbatore corporation shifted the   from Kavundampalayam to  . Major fires were reported at the yard almost every year since then, with the civic body turning a blind eye to such incidents.

 Despite promises to set up CCTV cameras, watchtowers, over-head tanks and bringing in an automated fire emergency mechanism to fight fires, no action has been taken. As a result, residents in the locality, especially near Mahalingapuram at Vellalore town panchayat, continue to suffer due to frequent fire breakouts.
 
 As per RTI replies from the Coimbatore corporation, nearly 20 fire incidents were reported every year since 2011. In 2011, 23 fire incidents were reported with the maximum in the month of October when eight incidents were reported. In 2012, 29 fire incidents were reported with the maximum in February when 12 incidents were reported. Ten fires were reported in January.
 
 On Tuesday, after a 20-hour battle, firefighters extinguished another major fire at the yard that had erupted behind the Mahalingapuram residential Colony, where nearly one lakh tonnes of garbage has been dumped. 
 
 According to the corporation official in-charge of the dump yard, they had already sent an estimate for 35 CCTV cameras to be set up at the yard. 
 
 “The tenders will be called soon and we will ensure a system in place to avoid such incidents,” he said.
 
 RTI activist Daniel Jesudas said huge smoke engulfed the area after a fire broke out on Monday as well. “Every time a fire breaks out, the officials conduct a review but no action is taken. We have submitted many petitions,” he said.
 
 Former DMK councillor SM Samy said the corporation had announced a major revamp of the dump yard and announced a slew of infrastructure projects in 2011. 
 
 “Residents were promised that compound walls will be erected, modern technology would be used to process waste and steps would be taken to control smell emanating from the dump yard. It has been six years and none of those promises have been fulfilled,” he told TOI.
 
 Residents in the area said they had suffered for more than a decade. “Whenever we questioned the officials, they say the waste is being composted and work is going on. Only if the officials are made to stay here with their families for a week, will they understand our problem. Many of us suffer from ailments, our children are unable to eat and we feel disgusted to live amidst stench and flies,” said Amsaveni, a resident in Mahalingapuram.
 
 
