KOLKATA/MIDNAPORE: Suspended   member   had a guest at his residence on Tuesday: an emissary from the   in Delhi, who had come to take stock of how many   office-bearers are with him before the party takes a call on taking him in the saffron camp. The development is crucial for the rebel leader before he announces his final separation from Trinamool, likely to be made from Delhi on October 8.

 Friends till two months ago, when   took Roy to address a gathering at Midnapore on August 9, Banerjee's former poster boy is likely to be in a combative mood during his Midnapore visit later in October, days after the CM's Jhargram tour on October 10. Sensing the ground reality in Midnapore, where many of the party organisers had once been close to Roy, a host of Trinamool leaders led by the party's West Midnapore secretary Ajit Maity called on Banerjee at her Kalighat residence on Tuesday , hours before the Red Road immersion carnival. Party Rajya Sabha MP Manas Bhuiyan, MLAs Dinen Roy and Srikanta Mahato, zilla sabhadhipati Uttara Singha Hazra were present in the meeting, among others.
 
 Coming out of the meeting, Maity said: “We had a detailed discussion on the political situation in the district.We had no discussion on Mukul Roy .“
 
 Mahato, the Trinamool MLA from Salboni, who had met Roy during his last visit in August along with the chief minister, said: “I met him last time be cause he was with the party . Now he is not with the party and I don't wish to meet him any more. I am loyal to the party.“
 
 The chief minister will hold the district administrative meeting in Jhargram on October 10, followed by a public meeting in Jamboni the day after.
 
 Trinamool leaders in the district are wary, given the threat of poaching by Roy, an art he had mastered during his stay in Trinamool. Party seniors may not give much weightage to Roy, but Trinamool got a taste of defiance during the recently held presidential polls, when a section of the party's lawmakers from Bengal, other than the six in Tripura, voted for Ram Nath Kovind when the party chief was batting for Meira Kumar. Trinamool insiders admit that all these lawmakers were close to Roy .
 
 This apart, party organisers in West Midnapore, East Midnapore, Purulia, Malda, North 24-Parganas and North Dinajpur are keeping their fingers crossed over the future course of the disgruntled in the Trinamool camp. North Dinajpur's Narottam Roy is a case in point. He has put up billboards all over Raiganj projecting himself and Mukul Roy as the faces of Inttuc.
 
 However, these names are enough to meet the BJP's expectations when the party is looking for some big names to switch loyalties ahead of the panchayat polls.
 
 While some within the state BJP , including state president Dilip Ghosh, are not averse to Roy's induction in BJP because of his organisational abilities, the younger leaders are opposed to taking the Saradha-tainted leader unless he can drive a split within Trinamool.
 
 Such a split doesn't seem likely at least for now, though many Trinamool ministers and lawmakers are in touch with Roy , something BJP leaders are aware of. According to Roy loyalists, this may take some time before things mature before the 2019 Lok Sabha polls.
 
