India’s first   (ARTP) – a  , equipped with   and   – will become operational in the next three months in Chennai, fulfilling a major requirement of the industry for mass production of  .

 The facility is being developed by Fisheries College and Research Institute (FCRI), Ponneri in Tamil Nadu, the second-largest exporter of ornamental fish after West Bengal.
 
 After the completion, it will be handed over to ornamental fish breeders and farmers on lease for three years.
 
 The Marine Products Export Development Authority (MPEDA), a nodal agency of the Union Commerce and Industry Ministry, has been a part of the steering committee for the project.
 
 The Rs 10-crore facility, being funded by the Tamil Nadu Innovation Initiatives of the state government, will be equipped with advanced infrastructure and technical expertise for boosting production of high-value ornamental fish species, both indigenous and exotic, said MPEDA Chairman A Jayathilak, during the three-day Aqua Aquaria India (AAI) 2017, which concluded on Tuesday.
 
 The other thrust areas of the project are development of new technologies for an uninterrupted supply of live feeds and advanced disease diagnosis and treatment mechanism. Further, ARTP will have a quarantine lab where exotic fish varieties imported from other countries would be treated for bacterial and viral infections. The entire facility will be provided to fish growers in and around Chennai, especially Kolathur, to equip them with the expertise on handling disease outbreaks.
 
 During 2015-16, MPEDA assisted in establishing four units in Himachal Pradesh with a financial involvement of Rs 23.79 lakh. States and union territories such as Rajasthan, Punjab, Haryana, Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Lakshadweep have also chalked out plans on hi-tech ornamental fish hatchery.
 
 The Centre has recently launched a pilot project on ornamental fisheries under the National Fisheries Development Board (NFDB) with an outlay of Rs 61.89 crore. It has identified eight states for the project — Assam, West Bengal, Odisha, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Kerala.
 
 Recognition earned at the event
 
 * Best stalls awarded: Hyderabad-based Avanthi Feeds Ltd bagged the ‘Best Stall Award’ while Pranav Plastic Products, a company based in Gujarat’s Vadodara, was adjudged the second best in the category of aquaculture at the Aqua Aquaria India (AAI) 2017.
 
 * Mangalore-based company Ruwari was selected for the Best Stall Award in the category of Ornamental Fisheries while the second best award went to BENFISH – West Bengal State Fishermen’s Cooperative Federation Ltd, Kolkata.
 
 * Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Aquaculture (RGCA), the Research and Development arm of the Marine Products Export Development Authority (MPEDA), received a special award for display of various aquaculture technologies.
 
