BHOPAL: They have been fighting against the Naxalites and terrorists and are also deployed for the smooth  . But, this time they have the responsibility of conducting a  

 It is not the sports department or any sports association which is organising a tournament to select players for World Cup soccer. For the first time in the state, Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) has the task to select players from Madhya Pradesh for the Indian football team which is to participate in the Under-17 World Cup tournament. The tournament is slated to be organised for the first time in the country later this year.
 
 The tournament that will choose players from the state will be organised by the CRPF and will begin on May 8 in Bhopal for both boys’ and girls’ categories and has been named ‘OORJA – CAPFs Youth Under – 19 Football talent hunt Tournament – 2017.
 
 For making the tournament successful, the five CRPF battalions based in Bhopal have been put on their toes. Sources said that around 22 committees headed by DIG level officers have been formed to conduct the tournament.
 
 When contacted, co-ordinator of the tournament in Bhopal, Rahul Seth told TOI that CRPF is all prepared for making the tournament successful. “For us, it is a task that has to be completed successfully. Our officers and jawans are putting their best to make the tournament a grand success,” said Seth.
 
 When asked what compelled the authorities to award a sport meet to an agency like the CRPF, Seth said, “I do not know. Our objective is to conduct the tournament. We have taken the support of Madhya Pradesh Football Association for their technical support. They will provide us with referees also.”
 
 Citing the example of the opening ceremony organised on Friday, Seth said, “CRPF have proved that they can conduct sporting events by organising a successful opening ceremony. Likewise, we will conduct a grand tournament from May 8.”
 
 Asked about the reason for organising the selection of Indian team so late when the World Cup is just a few months away, Seth said, “We have taken the players who have been representing the state or districts in the past. They have played a lot of football. Our task is to select the best from them. Later, selected players will get special training for a month by international coaches and experts.” The tournament will be played at   and Barkatullah University.
 
 On Friday, Gabroo, the mascot for the Under-17 FIFA World Cup, being hosted by India in October was unveiled at an impressive function at Ravindra Bhawan.
 
