For the capital of a country on the fast track to a digitised world, toll collection at the borders is old fashioned, manual, requiring the prodding of stick-wielding toughies -and a pain for non-paying commuters. At the 124 toll points across Delhi, 11pm is the hour when the world suddenly becomes messy, as the legal time for entry into the capital of commercial vehicles begins and between 70,000 and one lakh trucks start trundling past the borders with UP and Haryana.

 The civic bodies -South Delhi Municipal Corporation is the nodal agency for this -levy entry toll on commercial vehicles at the border. Since February 2016, this work has been entrusted to DEP Tolls LLP, a private Delhibased concessionaire.It collects the MCD toll as well as the Supreme Court ordered environment compensation charge (ECC). “DEP Tolls pays us Rs 560 crore annually,“ said an SDMC official.
 
 The toll constitutes the fourth biggest chunk of income for the three municipal corporations. Only property tax, transfer duty and electricity tax yield better returns. In 2015-16, the north corporation received Rs 196 crore (of its total revenues of Rs 1,814 crore) from border toll, SDMC Rs 205 crore (total revenue Rs 2,469 crore), and EDMC, Rs 120 crore (Rs 768 crore). “As you can see, we cannot do away with the border tax, especially when two corporations do not have money even to pay salaries,“ argued a senior civic official.
 
 The weight of the vehicle and the number of wheels it has determine the MCD tax it pays, ranging between Rs 100 and Rs 1,200.The green tax falls into four categories from Rs 700 to Rs 2,600.
 
 Cavalier use of lanes by trucks, violent means to enforce payment and truckers stopping to make deals with the toll collectors generate jams with tailbacks that are up to a kilometre long. DEP Tolls, which deploys 15,000 toll collectors every night, denied these accusations. “Our staff doesn't threaten with sticks or harass people,“ insisted Ajay Aggarwal, co owner of DEP Tolls. “Anti-social elements must be operating independently at some places.“
 
 He did agree, however, that toll employees occasionally accept bribes to let through vehicles. “This means a loss for us, so we have been firing around 150 such `thieves' every month.We also file around 10 FIRs against such people each month,“ said Aggarwal.
 
 Dr Puneet Goyal, commissioner of SDMC, told TOI that after being apprised of the violation of rules at the borders, the civic body has decided to form a team each to monitor the 13 major toll plazas of the capital.
 
 Delhi Police expressed helplessness at streamlining traffic flow at the toll points. Officers said that the jams are on the side of the border controlled by police of other states.Police there, in turn, argue that the origins of the jams are the toll points on Delhi territory .However, Delhi Traffic Police has held a meeting with the stakeholders, including MCD and its civic counterparts in the neighbouring states, to create places where vehicles not destined for Delhi could turn back, thus reducing the snarls at the borders.
 
 
 
 
 DARK DEEDS
 
 Welcome to Delhi, says the bright blue board at the Kalindi Kunj UP-Delhi border. The entry into the capital is anything but welcome past 11 at night. The Okhla barrage stretch leading to the border point is almost at a standstill when TOI reached the site a little after 11pm on Friday .Lines of trucks hog the road width, leaving home-headed car drivers negotiating narrow road spaces to advance.
 
 At the toll point, around 20 tax collectors, some of them threatening and wielding heavy sticks, signal to commercial vehicle to halt and pay the MCD tax and the Supreme Court-mandated environment compensation charge. “The bouncers are for our safety,“ explains Arjun Singh, a toll employee.“Truck drivers can get unruly and attack the tax collectors.“ Vinod Kumar, who crosses the bridge in his truck twice daily , admits that fights between toll agents and truck drivers are not uncommon. “It can then take 45 minute to cross the border,“ says Kumar.
 
 To add to the regular 20-25 minutes of stalling at the toll point, the road immediately splits into a complex crossing with a sharp right turn towards Sarita Vihar. The traffic signal there creates a long tailback, prompting Singh to argue, “Much of the traffic jam is due to the traffic light, not us.“
 
 Singh is only partly correct, for there is no systematic method to the collectors' actions. They allow commercial vehicles to use all the lanes available there and stop them anywhere on the road, no matter how many non-paying vehicles are behind them.
 
 “We are exempt from the charges, but we still get caught in the long queues,“ fumes Dayanand Sharma, who is in his car with his family . Delhi Police personnel deny bad management of traffic there, reasoning, rather disingenuously , that the traffic jam lies on the other side of the border.
 
 
 
 
 DOGGED PURSUIT
 
 Around midnight, DND Flyway is a night mare for commuters. When TOI reached the multi-laned, pothole-free stretch at the border between Delhi and UP on Friday night, it encountered stop-and-go traffic. The reason for the slothful progress lies a little ahead. The MCD toll collectors have occupied three of the four lanes, leaving just one for the use of vehicles that are not required to pay entry and green taxes.
 
 At the clog point, around a dozen agents employed by the MCD contractor are actively engaged in toll collection. They regularly jump in front of moving trucks to bring them to a halt.Every so often, a brown dog skitters out in pursuit of a car. The dog is named Moti, and per the claims of the tax collectors, is trained to chase a vehicle if the driver accelerates away without paying the charges. Sometimes this scares the drivers into stopping, but no one seems to fear that the canine could be crushed under the speeding wheels.
 
 The slow traffic creates jams and the lanes remain difficult to negotiate till late into the night, with around a thousand commercial vehicles entering Delhi via the flyway . Officials of NTBCL, the franchise operating the flyway , point out that the court ordered them to stop collecting road roll. “There was nothing said about  ,“ sats one of them. “The MCD contractor himself decided to shift toll collection to the Delhi side.“
 
 Shravan Singh, in charge of the zonal toll collection, recognises that commuters suffer. “But there is no option,“ he says. “Our staff tries to ensure traffic flow is smooth, but this sometimes fails.“ Vishal Singh, a software engineer who takes this route to home in New Friends Colony , grumbles that the everyday jam spoils his mood.“They must shift it,“ he argues.
 
 
 
 
 NO LANE SENSE
 
 Entering the capital through National High way 24 at midnight is, there is no other word, a nightmare. A kilometre from the border at Ghazipur, you get caught in a traffic snarl that gets increasingly annoying as you approach the MCD toll booths.
 
 When TOI was there on Thursday night, there were tough-looking men waving PVC pipes and sticks, running alongside trucks to get them to pay the toll charges. To quickly go through the process, the truckers choose the least occupied lanes. This, of course, is a violation of the Su preme Court order on commercial vehicles us ing only the leftmost lane. But the traffic police on duty say that since the toll booths are located on the border, controlling vehicles is the responsibility of the agency at the spot, in this case, MCD.
 
 TOI also realised that instead of following the order of the National Green Tribunal to turn away commercial vehicles not destined for Delhi, the toll collection agency allowed the lorries, for bribes as paltry as Rs 50, to pass, though without a receipt. Admittedly , CCTVs installed at the booths in Ghazipur can capture misdoings, but the tax agents move to the slip roads or the extreme right lane out of sight of the cameras to transact deals.
 
 “This is easier for us if we are in a hurry to enter Delhi,“ admits Pooran Singh, a container driver from Meerut on his way to Bahadurgarh. “Of course, we do not get a receipt, so we enter the city at our own risk and exit the city as soon possible.“
 
 The toll booth managers insist to TOI that employees are instructed to follow the rules. “But,“ says one of them at Ghazipur border, “there are thousands of vehicles awaiting clearance, so instead of arguing with a trucker, we find it easier to let them off.“
 
 
 
 
 BOUNCERS AT WORK
 
 When the other wise busy roads of Millennium City take a break for the night, the Sirhaul toll plaza wakes up. When TOI reached the Delhi-Gurgaon border at just after 11pm on Thursday , more than 40 men were collecting MCD toll and the green tax levied by the Supreme Court. Almost 10,000 commercial vehicles headed for Delhi are on the Haryana expressway . The first couple of hours are chaotic, and it is only after this that the impatient collection of vehicles starts easing off. A toll collector says only commercial vehicles that have to pay the entry tax and environment cess are stopped. But non-paying drivers suffer all the same.
 
 Entry into Delhi is not permitted before 11pm, but most trucks reach the area much earlier. Pawan Singh, a private security guard at the NHAI office, elaborates, “Commercial vehicles start gathering here from around 9pm, but have to wait till 11pm. So they park haphazardly on the roads leading up the toll booths, and this leads to a massive traffic jam with a tailback up to the flyover near Ambience Mall.“
 
 Given this, a toll official argues, “People complain against us for the traffic mess because they see the jams at the toll spot, but we have no role in this.“
 
 Part of the mess is also due to business of a different sort that thrives nightly on the border crossing. As darkness descends, eunuchs and sex workers start assembling near the Sirhaul toll. While the eunuchs busy themselves asking drivers of idling vehicles for money , sex workers openly wait for clients on the edge of the empty plots nearby . Many cars and trucks slow down at this point. Pedestrians also encroach on road space for a better view of the free show, slowing the cars keener on reaching home.
 
 
 
 
