BENGALURU: Fighter jet maker   MiG recently completed the delivery of its MiG-29 KUB planes to the Indian Navy. With the   looking to float a tender for the purchase of multi-role fighters, MiG CEO Ilya Tarasenko talks to TOI on how the company is trying to reinvent itself and sell its latest MiG-35 fighter jets while battling competition from US's   and Sweden's SAAB, and even PM Narendra Modi's Make in India initiative which calls for more indigenous aircraft. Excerpts.

 
 We completed the deliveries of our aircraft MiG-29 KUB in India. Now, we are putting those aircraft in operation and fulfilling our offset obligations. We also have a huge contract for the upgrade of MiG-29 aircraft. We have been interacting with the ministry of defence for more than 40 years. Practically, the Indian Air Force has all types of MiG aircraft. So, we hope that our new MiG-35 aircraft will also be purchased by the  .
 
 
 We offer them not only as aircraft but an end-to-end ready-made product. Besides the aircraft, we provide a pilot training system, logistics support, overhaul service, maintenance service, and are prepared to support the aircraft during its entire life-cycle, which costs at least 20% less compared to other companies.
 
 We are also prepared to participate in the Make in India programme. And how are you planning to do that?
 We are also creating service depots for their maintenance and it will be an Indian one. We are making a pilot training centre, simulator centre and we don't want to stop just with this. We are prepared to increase the volume of the products which we can produce locally. We have our current partners and in the meeting in this exhibition we have started negotiations with them in fields we can cooperate.
 
 
 It will start operations by the end of this year in Nasik, Maharashtra.
 
 
 Sure. We are ready to meet any requests and any demands. Also, we will offer MiG-35. We need to complete our current contractual obligations and we will offer it as an upgrade on our current MiG-29 aircraft.
 
