 took the television audience by storm with her villainess character   in  . 

 Archana, who has been a regular face for the telly audience for the past 12 years through mostly negative roles, is a versatile dancer as well. She is now seen as Dr Mareena, a psychotic lover in the serial  . The actress took some time out of her busy shoot to talk to us about her present projects, why she accepts negative roles and more.
 
 
 
 I have been into dance since my school days. I was born to half-Malayali parents settled outside Kerala. As part of business requirements my family had to shift here, and I am not fluent in Malayalam. From Class 8 onwards, I had started to perform stage shows as a backing dancer and have shared the stage with actresses Kavya Madhavan and Navya Nair. I entered the television field as a VJ with the show Post Box. However, it was my music album Ennum Ninakkayi Paadam which paved the way for my entry into the Malayalam serial industry. I debuted through a small role in Kanakkinavu, I got recognition through Ente Manasaputhri which was my second serial. Later I received a handful of roles, mostly that of the villainess, which has become my forte (laughs).
 
 
 
 
 Now, I am committed to three projects of varied genres. Dr Mareena, a psychopath, in Karuthamutthu, Nancy, a witty girl in Five Star Thattukada, and a mythological character in Sathyam Shivam Sundaram (a serial based on the legends of Lord Shiva). I feel overwhelmed when I get comments like ‘Gloriye kaalum dushtathi aanu Dr Mareena’. I consider that a compliment. Recently I had to attend a wedding in Trivandrum and came across a group of middle-aged people who told me, ‘Ini engilum Balachandran doctore vittude…’
 But in real life, I am more like Nancy in Five Star Thattukada. The sitcom has completed more than 150 episodes and it is the only serial where I use my own voice. It is a little difficult for me to switch from the evil Mareena to the comic Nancy when I have a back-to-back schedules.
 
 
 
 
 Though I have been in this industry for the past 12 years, I still can’t pronounce Malayalam properly. At home I speak in Hindi with my husband so I learnt Malayalam only from my shooting locations. I have improved but am still trying to master the language. 
 
 
 
 
 Glory of Ente Manasaputhri is my all-time favourite character; she was like an acting school for me. Through the role I was able to showcase a variety of emotions and expressions which moulded the actor in me. People still recognise me as Glory. I love doing 
 negative roles as they are performance oriented. I believe that in a negative role, one gets to explore oneself while a positive role is all about an emotional roller coaster and drama. I had played a positive role in Ammakkili but I got little response to it from the audience. I think people love to see me in grey roles and that is why most of the projects I am approached for such roles (laughs).
 
 
 
 
 Due to tight serial schedules, I have not been able to commit to film projects now. If good scripts with strong story lines come my way, I will definitely give it a try. I don’t have any particular demands, all I need is a space to explore my potential as an actor. Dance is as much of a passion for me as acting. As I am a quick learner, the endless shooting schedules do not affect my dance shows (laughs).
 
