CHENNAI: The Madras high court directing the   to waive the loan of all farmers in private agricultural co-op societies will result in additional financial commitment of Rs1,900 crore, which is huge given the state's financial stress. The high court on Tuesday asked the state government to waive farm loans obtained by all farmers, instead of limiting the benefit only to those owning less than five acres of land. 

 A section of officers feel that judiciary was interfering in government’s policy decisions. Former CM J Jayalalithaa’s poll promise covered only small and marginal farmers. 
 
 P Ayyakkannu, the petitioner, is planning to file a caveat on Wednesday, if the state moves an appeal petition before the apex court. Keeping her promise, Jayalalithaa signed orders hours after taking over for a consecutive term in May, writing off all outstanding short-term  , medium term loans and long-term farm sector loans extended by cooperative institutions to small and marginal farmers. It included Rs 4,893.48 crore of principal and Rs 386.77 crore of outstanding interest as on March 31 last year, both totalling Rs 5,280.25 crore, benefitting 12.02 lakh farmers. 
 
 “It is a clear encroachment into executive domain. It was precisely to waive the liabilities as on March 31 last year of small and marginal farmers. Why should big farmers be included?” a senior government official told TOI. The small farmer means those farmers having total landholding of size ranging from 2.5 acres to five acres and marginal farmers are those with landholding of up to 2.5 acres. Given its current financial situation, the state releases principal and interest component of the waived amount in a phased manner to cooperative institutions – primary agricultural cooperative credit societies.
 
 Cooperation minister Sellur K Raju said the government would study the court ruling before taking a call on an appeal. “We have been issuing certificates to farmers to convert short term loans into medium term loans (if the yield is less than 50%) in the cooperatives. This fiscal year, the cooperatives will also extend total fresh crop loans of Rs 7,000 crore,” the minister told TOI. The state apex cooperative bank raises resources through public deposits, refinance from NABARD, and loans from financial bodies like national cooperative development corporation. Terming the court order historic, DMK leader M K Stalin urged state and Central governments to help waive farm loans obtained in nationalized banks.
 
 Welcoming the court order, Ayyakkannu said he was confident that the government would bail out the farmers, who are in distress. The president of National South Indian Rivers Inter-linking Farmers Association said the verdict only proved that all were equal before law. “Due to lack of water, drought, price rise and poor support price, we are running into huge losses. The higher the acreage, the higher the loss,” he said. Ayyakkannu is currently spearheading an agitation in Jantar Mantar in New Delhi, demanding that the Centre waive off loans to the tune of Rs 7,000 crore obtained from nationalized banks by the TN farmers.
 
