It's been 10 days since the   announced that ‘service charge’ (ranging between five and 20 per cent across restaurants) would now be up to the customer to pay. Pretty much like everything in the news, this has been received differently by city restaurateurs and customers alike. Some (mainly diners) have welcomed it, while eatery owners are going different ways; from making it optional, to informing their customers that it’s mandatory, before they even sit down to order. There’s no single trend in sight.

 Just in case you’re still in two minds about where this is heading; wondering whether to pay or not when you head out to eat next, we decided to scout some of Pune’s popular eating hubs to take stock of the situation. Our findings on the life and times of   post the announcement might give you a heads-up.
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 The staff at Atmosphere 6, a rooftop resto-lounge at Datta Mandir Chowk, Viman Nagar, has been informing diners at the entrance itself that 10 per cent service charge is being levied. Restaurant director Rajveer Arora says, “To be doubly sure that our customers are well-informed, the captain in attendance also informs them about it while taking the order. Details about relevant taxes are mentioned in the menu as well.” Rajveer mentions that just one customer has cited a problem with paying the service charge ever since January 2. “We drew the customer’s attention to the fact that the levy was already mentioned in the menu. Barring this, customers do not seem to have qualms about paying the charge, which is a positive sign for the industry,” Rajveer adds.
 Meanwhile Exotica, a rooftop restaurant at Yerwada, has done away with its service charge levy since yesterday. Restaurant business head Sanjeev Savaille explains, “All along, we had notices informing customers about the 10 per cent service charge. But two to three customers would inquire about the waiver on a daily basis, referring to different reports doing the rounds online. These daily interactions were getting uncomfortable for the restaurant staff as well as clients, so we decided to do away with the levy itself.” Sanjeev is hopeful now that this waiver will encourage customers to tip his waiters more generously.
 
 
 
 Sandy Singh, partner at Prem’s (Koregaon Park) and Euriska (Mundhwa) couldn’t be clearer that he is for service charge. “It is an important part of the industry and includes services such as parking space, ambiance, restaurant technology and other offerings. The charge goes to every member working in the set-up, including the cleaners and watchmen,” Sandy informs, adding, “Restaurants in other countries directly point out these services being offered and charge for them, while we choose to offer these services out of courtesy here.” 
 While the menu mentions the levy, Sandy says that two out of 100 customers might have had an issue. Sandy says, “They did not cite problems with our service but raised the issue because it’s in the news. But we like to believe that this number is negligible and that customers too support us. If service charge levy isn’t well received in days to come, we’d be forced to increase menu prices, which wouldn’t be fare to our customers because many would be tipping over and above that.”
 Cafe 1730, in Koregaon Park, on the other hand does include the charge in the bill after due notice, but iswilling to waive off the charge if customers cite a proper reason for not wanting to pay. Restaurant owner Harsh Giri explains, “While care is taken, it might happen that a customer is not be happy with the food or service, in which case we are willing to waive the service charge off the bill. But if customers don’t have a concrete reason and ask for it just because of the recent announcement, we explain to them what the charge is and how it comes back to them in the form of better service (like valet parking, security) that cost money as well.” He adds that there are less than five per cent cases where they had to resort to doing this, pointing to the fact that customers are happy to pay for good services. 
 
 
 
 At most restaurants, the service charge received is distributed among waiters and other staff members. Amir Patni, director of 4 Seasons, who is planning to introduce service charge from April, will be doing so to combat the effects of demonetisation on the tipping system. He says, “After demonetisation was announced, customers have stopped tipping waiters. One should understand that tips are extra income for the staff, but are equally distributed among the team. If service charges are waived off or left at the customer’s discretion, it will be a major setback for the industry. I am introducing the charge levy, as tipping at restaurants is optional.” 
 Restaurateurs are also of the opinion that service charges aren’t only the extra amount that one pays while dining out. “It is a lot more than that. Though we do not have service charges in our restaurant, it is right to acknowledge the services rendered to customers via a small token amount,” says Fida Mir from Raasta Café.
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Of the 1500 odd customers that dine at Sandy’s restaurants every week, a very small number of them have had qualms about paying the service charge. “Out of 100 customers, just two or three of them have questioned the levy. I like to believe that this is a very small number and that customers largely support the charge.” Similarly, at Cafe 1730, Harsh notes that less than five per cent of his clients have asked for the charge to be waived off their bill. 
 
 
 
 For customers, how good or bad services are will always be a subjective call. Aniruddha Patil, founder of Pune Eat Outs, says, “Customers expect a lot from restaurants. But at the same time, we cannot compare the services of a fine dining restaurant to a value-for-money eatery. Services are sure to vary and thus, will be subjective. The concept of ‘if I like the service, I will pay’ has no definition at all. We have to understand that restaurants and customers survive in the same eco-system. If we do not award people for their services, they will not be able to provide the best as well. It is a two-way process, that I think, should be respected.” 
 Puneites should also deal with the service charge with more maturity, feel other customers. Food taster Nikhil Vidyasagar shares, “We should display a certain maturity level while negotiating over the service charge. For a restaurant, where the service was up to the mark, I see no reason why we shouldn’t pay for it. However, for joints where service charges are manually scribbled without definition, we should rethink about paying. There are certain hassles, and these should ease out if the decision is given more time and restaurateurs are willing to explain to their customers about the same.” 
 
