HYDERABAD: Indian captain   will be please with the wealth of bowling resources at his disposal. Off-spinner   has bagged four man of the series on the trot, but it's the performance of the seamers that cannot be discounted.

 Witness the manner in which   and   tormented England. The latter's peach of a delivery that cleaned up   and knocked the stuffing out of England in Visakhapatnam opened the door for a series win. Here against Bangladesh, Yadav was exceptional with his reverse swing on an unresponsive pitch -by  's admission, it was the best spell he had faced -and Ishant Shar ma made life difficult in their second innings.
 
 “Umesh, Bhuvi and Ishant were brilliant but Umesh stood out in the first innings. In the second, all three bowled well and Ishant stood out. The quality of our spinners allows our fast bowlers to attack. The way our spinners bowl and contain runs, the pacers can really attack as soon as it starts reverse swinging. I thought today Ishant's spell was really good. He bowled with pace and had to put in effort to take both the set batsmen out. That was really good for us.
 
 “If you have 3-4 seamers in your squad who are attacking bowlers and can pick wickets at any stage during the day, then it is a bonus for any side. When we start travelling away from home, it is going to help us big time. It gives us more strength as a team having fast bowlers in rhythm and confidence. We believe in giv ing our bowlers more importance and telling them they are the match-winners, which in true sense they are. You can score as many runs as you want but if you don't pick wickets, you won't win a Test match.“
 
 Bhuvneshwar Kumar has added an extra dimension to the team, he said. “Shami, Ishant and Umesh have done it (reverse) with the old ball many times. The way Bhuvi has bowled in the last few games with the old ball is because his fitness levels have increased.
 
 “With more strength in the body, he's been able to put more pace on the ball, which is the key for reverse wing. The other three guys have more pace than him.But Bhuvi has stepped up the game with the old ball too. It gives us a lot of options.
 
 “We won't hesitate playing Bhuvi on any sort of wicket if he keeps bowling like t h i s a n d r e ve r s e swinging. He's working on that aspect.“
 
 
