AHMEDABAD: In a major push to affordable housing in line with central government’s ‘Housing for All by 2022’ programme, 375 affordable housing projects were unveiled by member developers of apex   industry body Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Association of India ( ) on Sunday. These projects, spread across 53 cities in 17 states, were launched by Union minister for housing and urban poverty alleviation, M   in Gandhinagar.

  More than 2.37 lakh affordable houses will be built under these projects involving estimated project value of Rs 70,000 crore, said Credai officials. Out of the total affordable housing projects announced on Sunday, Gujarat will see 147 projects, with about 86 in Ahmedabad, said Credai officials. 
 
 Naidu said, “The projects will be implemented in states such as Maharashtra, Gujarat, Karnataka, Rajasthan, National Capital Region, Telengana, Andhra Pradesh among others.”
 
 The Union minister, however, pegged the number of affordable housing projects at 352 with investments of Rs 38,003 crore. Explaining the gap in figures, a Credai official said, “Last minute additions of many projects increased the final tally to 375.”
 
 “I am asking all your (Credai) state units to take up such programmes in your respective states to provide affordable housing facilities in all notified 4,041 cities and towns,” Naidu said while announcing these projects during ‘CREDAI National Investiture Ceremony’ held at Mahatma Mandir in the state capital. Pointing out that the government has taken up several initiatives to provide affordable housing, the minister said that his ministry has approved construction of 17.73 lakh affordable units for urban poor under Prime Minister’s Awas Yojana (Urban) with an investment of Rs 95,660 crore in just 21 months, since launch of PMAY in June 2015.
 
 Jaxay Shah, who took over as the new president of Credai from April 9, said, “Today, we are launching a crusade for affordable housing in India. Credai had promised to start 100 affordable housing projects, then the number went up to 250. Now, we have have signed memorandums of understanding (MoUs) for 375 projects.”“The number includes only those projects which have either received permission or have applied for approval,” Shah added.
 
 Shah, on behalf of the members of the realty body, assured the government that they would start building 25 lakh more units over the next two years.
 
 
 
 
 In order to encourage affordable housing projects in state, Gujarat government is mulling a slew of relaxations. Both Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani and deputy CM   said that the government is planning to create a common General Development Control Regulations (GDCR). Currently there are different GDCR rules for construction in different cities.
 
 
 
 
 Credai officials said that 147 affordable housing projects will be built across 13 cities such as Ahmedabad, Rajkot, Gandhinagar, Mehsana, Vadodara among others. The total investment could be more than Rs 9,500 crore. As many as 86 such projects are slated to come up in Ahmedabad alone, said Credai officials.
 
 
