KOLKATA: Forty days. Five deaths. More than 12 injured. It does not feature on  's list of “accident-proze zones“ but if statistics is anything to go by, the 1.5 km stretch of Strand Road -'Shaitan Road' or `Hell Road', as commuters have started calling it now -between Babughat and the Kolkata end of Howrah bridge has been one of the deadliest in recent times. With hawkers gobbling up every inch of the pavement, almost every accident has been the result of jaywalking.

 Though losing road space to hawkers is not something new in Kolkata, speeding vehicles make the loss even more precarious along Strand Road. Police watch helplessly as buses pick up speed at the last leg of the journey between Fairlie Place and Howrah bridge and race past each other to reach the terminals.With the road space shrinking (parking is allowed on both sides at certain stretches), overtaking often turns fatal for pedestrians who are forced to walk on the road. In last six months, casualties would rise to over a dozen.
 
 “We have tried every step, like installing railings, deploying extra manpower and prosecuting vehicles. But the real problem is   by hawkers.They remove the guardrails, uproot railings and sit on the pavement with their wares,“ an officer of Headquarter traffic guard said. According to an officer of Howrah bridge traffic guard, Strand Road is all of 60 feet, but more than half of it has been eaten up by hawkers and cars parked illegally . Buses -at times three at a time -race against each other on whatever space is left.
 
 Recalling the horror of a mother and her son being hit by a speeding bus on January 9, Md Safi, a shop-owner at the   crossing, said, “Hawker menace has grown out of proportion in this area over the last few years. I have witnessed at least 50 accidents during this time.Only the other day , a teenager was injured while walking down the stretch. We took him to NRS Hospital, but couldn't track of his condition.“ “It's deadly -negotiating buses on the road and hawkers on the pavement. It's like walking a tight rope between life and death every day ,“ said Samiran Naskar, a Bansdroni resident who works in a private firm in the area. “We have to squeeze ourselves to walk on the pavement. So, it's better to walk on the road,“ he said.
 
 The hawkers are unperturbed by their pavement invasion. “We have been asked to stay here. After all, it's a great location,“ said Haru De, a tea-seller, refusing to elaborate who has “asked“ him to “stay here“. At stretches, much to the glee of the hawkers, the pavement is wider and better maintained. “The pavement is good for us. If anyone has a problem with us sitting here, they should call the police,“ said a hawker, refusing to give his name.
 
