NEW DELHI: Prime Minister   will pitch for higher foreign investments into India riding on the economic reforms of the past three years, and will also outline Delhi’s vision of an inclusive and rules-based world order amid China’s   initiative when he addresses the 21st edition of the   (SPIEF) on June 2.
 
  India is the guest country at this edition of SPIEF -- dubbed as Davos of Eurasia -- and Modi is the guest of honour at the Forum, coinciding with 70 years of creation of diplomatic ties between India and  . Modi and Russian President Vladimir Putin will jointly address global business leaders and a political audience of over 5000 at the SPIEF. This is the first time India will be the guest country at the Forum where the UN Secretary General will also be present.
  
  American TV anchor and journalist Megyn Kelly is expected to moderate the session, persons familiar with the developments indicated to ET. Kelly joined NBC News this year after working with Fox News for over a decade. In 2014, she was listed as one of the 100 influential people by the Time Magazine.
  
  
 
  
  SPIEF -- also a forum for debating geo-politics -- comes close on the heels of China’s mega   that was attended among others by Putin and aimed at establishing Sino-centric global economic order challenging liberal economic norms of globalization.
  
  The Forum is being held amid flux in global order following Donald Trump’s election as the US President raising hopes of a reset in ties between Washington and Moscow and Russia’s attempt to reinforce its significance as a global player. Modi will use this platform to outline his government’s vision to establish India as one of the global players. Coming soon after the OBOR Summit that India skipped, Modi is likely to outline India’s belief that connectivity initiatives must be based on universally recognised international norms, good governance, rule of law, openness, transparency and equality.
  
  He will reiterate India’s position that no country can accept a project that ignores its core concerns on sovereignty and territorial integrity.
  
  Interestingly, St Petersburg is the entry point for International North-South Transportation Corridor (INSTC) that connects India with Russia and Europe via Iran. INSTC is one of the flagship connectivity projects that the Modi government is investing in for smooth entry into Russia, Eurasia and Europe. Within days of SPIEF, India will also enter the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO), hoping to expand its footprints in Central Asia through which corridors under China’s Belt and Road Initiative passes.
  
  Trying to attract further foreign investments for the flagship projects, Modi will also highlight economic achievements under his government, including key reforms such as the GST in the past three years, at the Forum. This year, the SPIEF will convene under the theme ‘Achieving a New Balance on the Global Stage’.
  
  Discussions will be split across five main pillars -- Managing the Macro Environment; Russian Economic Agenda; Embracing Tech Disruptors; Focus on the Human Factor, and Foresight Series Ahead of SPIEF, India and Russia will hold their annual summit on June 1 where both sides will explore new areas of cooperation -- inland waterways, railways and IT among other areas.
  
  
 
  Build Partnerships The US ambivalence about its global engagement has in some ways unleashed a race for leadership. This is an opportunity for India to reiterate its commitment to liberal democratic world order that can make globalisation work for all. To this end, the St Petersburg International Economic Forum gives New Delhi a platform to build mutually beneficial partnerships that will create mutually beneficial opportunities for all. Most importantly, it will provide an alternative model of global economic partnerships. 
