A   has shown a diligent way towards effective water management in  . Representatives of buildings in key residential areas like Wakad, Punawale, Moshi, Pimple Saudagar and Nigdi organised a visit on Sunday to   in order to imbibe methods of   (RWH) from the latter.

 At Sunday’s meet, many inhabitants of housing societies rued that even though some developers installed RWH, it was not used due to lack of awareness. The representatives extensively discussed the issue of water crisis and how to go about tackling it in dire situations.
 
 Sundeep Bhat, a representative of Mont Vert Tropez housing society in Wakad, said, “When we didn’t get sufficient water supply, the society would normally hire 5-10 tankers every day. We want to reduce this dependency on tankers. So, we decided to visit Roseland. We have RWH and a sewage treatment plant (STP) in place, but were unaware of their practical implementation.”
 
 Most buildings in the twin towns resort to water tankers during shortages, and Roseland’s water management model seems to be the light at the end of a dark tunnel. There was also a time   faced acute water problems, but its residents came together and decided to install the RWH mechanism out of their own pockets.
 
 Santosh Maskar, chairman of Roseland Residency Cooperative Housing Society, told Mirror, “Last week, we were invited by the Pimpri- Chinchwad Citizens’ Forum to present our case study on RWH and water management. During this seminar, several societies showed keen interest in exploring our initiatives, so they came to us.”
 
 Roseland Residency, comprising of 1,000 flats, is one of the older societies of Pimple Saudagar, built in 2006 — when the only known way to tackle water shortage was tankers. Depleting resources led to increasing dependency on these tankers, following which the society set up an RWH system between 2008 and 2009. It’s been eight years since then, and the society has never had to be dependent on an external water source since. Under the Pimpri- Chinchwad Municipal Corporation’s (PCMC) jurisdiction, around 90 per cent of the residential societies in the aforementioned residential areas heavily rely on tankers during water cuts.
 
 My Home MH14 Punawale representative, Manoj Varma, told Mirror, “We have hired six to seven tankers daily to cater to our water needs. We also applied for an additional connection of water taps in the society. There is an RWH system in the society, but no one knows the location of the borewells. We want to do away with tankers and want to know about Roseland’s water management methods.”
 
 A representative from the Shubhashree Woods housing society in Pimple Saudagar, Santosh Vartak, said, “We have 300 row houses in our building and need almost 10-12 water tankers daily. Considering future needs, we are also thinking about implementing the water conservation methods.”
 
 Speaking about their research into water conservation, Maskar said, “We had visited Aurangabad and Hiware Bazar village in Ahmednagar district. In the latter destination, we learnt that the small village never faced scarcity due to perfect water management. Later, we also visited drought-affected areas like Jalgaon and Dhule, where the authorities successfully implemented recharging of borewells. We finally became self-sufficient by trial and error.”
 
 Roseland has not only managed to remain tanker-free but reduced water consumption by 30 per cent. Maskar said, “We collected rainwater coming down from the terrace through various outlets of the building and recharged a low capacity borewell. This gave us confidence on rainwater harvesting. Now, the society gets 24x7 water supply.”
 
 Simultaneously, the society has been equally focused on recycling water for the gardens of residents, using STP water for composting. Around 1 lakh litres of water are treated, of which around 60,000 litres are used for gardening and garden waste composting. As an outreach programme, a WhatsApp group (9822035224) guides other societies in water conservation and plans visits to the Roseland for observations.
 
