 can make a lot of difference, be a cute chignon or a classy ponytail, there’s a lot to flaunt and experiment every day. And if you have  , then we have the easiest DIY hairstyles for you. Here’s a list of 15 gorgeous hairstyles, which can be done under 5 minutes. From lazy girl’s top knot to some serious braiding, here are the easiest hairstyles for long hair:
 
 
 
 This hairstyle will keep the long tresses in place and won’t irritate your neck. For a sleek ponytail, straighten your hair and then neatly comb back into a high pony. There are many variations for this hairstyle: centre parting, side parting or the low ponytail. Style tip: Use a metallic clip or an eye-catching accessory instead of a scrunchie.
 
  
  
 
 This 80’s style works best with soft curls and hair wrapped around base. To achieve retro curls, tie a side pony and start curling the ends and top it off with a setting spray.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 A polished side parting can make all the difference and there’s no need to hit the salon for this hairdo. Use tail comb and make a deep side part and tuck the other side behind the ear. Spritz some shining spray to make it look sleek and posh.
 
 
 
 Polished straight locks can make you the showstopper. To achieve this look, straighten your hair and create a centre parting. Tame any flyaways with a shine serum.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 This celebrity favourite hairstyle is the go-to hairstyle for many. For messy top knots to sleeker versions, there are a lot of ways to work this hairstyle. For a tight top knot, pull back your hair up into a high ponytail and secure it with a rubber band. Now twirl this ponytail and wrap around the base clockwise and secure the hairdo with some bobby pins. For the classic Audrey Hepburn top knot, use a flashy accessory to adorn the bun.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 This elegant hairstyle is red carpet favourite for many celebrities. It’s chic, feminine and a go-to hairstyle for parties. Going for a cocktail party or a formal meet, this hairstyle can be your saviour. Here’s what you need to do: Pull back your hair into a low ponytail at the nape of your neck. Next, twirl it in a counter-clockwise circle. Twist this into a bun shape and secure each side with bobby pins.
 
  
  
 
 
 This effortless style doesn’t require much time. For undone beach waves, use a curling iron and random sections of hair. For a messier version, spray some texturiser and scrunch your hair for the effortless waves.
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 When it comes to braiding, long hair can be time-consuming. For an easy braid hairstyle, go for peek-a-boo tiny braids at the front and back.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Another easy braid hairstyle is this hairdo. To achieve this look, sweep all hair to one side and loosely start braiding, the messier, the better.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 This hairstyle might look tough but it’s as easy as the top knot. To achieve this look, pull back hair into high ponytail and make two braids. Now start wrapping around these braids around the base one by one, securing with bobby pins. 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 If getting a fringe is your biggest beauty dilemma, then we have a solution for you. For a commitment free hairstyle, try clip-in bangs, from braided hairstyle to top knot, the temporary bangs will give you a major hair makeover in no time.
 
  
  
 
 Crimping can give your hair some extra drama. From celebrities to runways, this 90’s trend has made its way back. For a texturised ponytail, just crimp few section of hair and upgrade your style.
 
  
  
 
 
 All you need to do is pull hair into a low ponytail and then loosely braid it. Once you have secured the braid, wrap the braided pony around the base to make a bun. Make sure you tuck in all the loose ends and set it off with a setting spray.
 
  
  
 
 
 This cute hairdo can be your bad hair days saviour and it works with any hair length. To copy this style, separate the top half and make a ponytail. Twist this ponytail into a bun, securing with bobby pins.
 
  
  
 
 
 This temporary bob works great without getting a chop. All you need to do is some twisting and pinning. To work this hairstyle, pull back all your hair into a low and loose ponytail, securing it with a clear elastic band. Now, twist this ponytail and push it inside, making it look like a bob and securing with bobby pins. For thicker hair, use more bobby pins to keep it in place. 
 
  
 
