JAIPUR: Not only private developers but also government agencies are not showing any interest in registering themselves on the Real Estate   ( ) website in the state. 

 The state government has written a letter to urban improvement trust (UITs), municipal corporations, development authority and   (RHB) to register their projects on the website. However, even after two-and-half months, not a single government project has been registered. 
 
 Sources at UDH informed, “For RHB, a committee has also been constituted to assist the officials to register projects. Still, no project is registered till date. There are almost seven ongoing housing projects that RHB is constructing,” said source.
 
 Similarly, only seven projects by private developers and 19   agents have registered so far with the new regulatory across the state.
 
 There are more than 300 unreconstructed and 1,000 constructed projects in the state. However, registrations of projects and agents are going on at a snail’s pace in the state.
 
 As per the new rules, developers, projects and agents have 90 days to register after the RERA Act came into effect on May 1. The new regulatory authority is expected to end many troubles for home buyers as it brings transparency in the existing system.
 
 Officials believe that number of registration will increase now as department has resolved the problems, which developers were facing in registering with RERA. “The developers in a meeting requested to simplify the process for registering with RERA. The department has few amendments following this. We are hoping more registration in near future as deadline will approach closer.”
 
 Meanwhile, the urban development and housing (UDH) department has finally started the process to establish full-fledged real-estate regulatory authority in the state. 
 
 The UDH has forwarded a proposal to finance department to appoint staff of 49 members for the regulatory authority. It is expected the staff will be appointed in one month. As per the proposal, the authority will comprise of members from legal, planning, finance, administration and informative technology (IT) fields. 
 
 
