THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The   of ‘Books on the Beach’, a literary festival where leading writers and thinkers from across India and beyond will gather in the city, will be held in November.

 The lit-fest, which is organized by non-profit India Book Foundation under the patronage of Shashi Tharoor MP, and supported by Kerala Tourism, will make its debut at   from November 10-12.
 
 Tharoor together with Tourism principal secretary Venu V and festival director Sabin Iqbal announced the festival at a press conference in the Press Club on Tuesday.
 
 Over the three-day event, writers of fiction and nonfiction, essayists and environmentalists, artists and academics, reporters and editors will conduct readings and recitals besides participating in meaningful debates and dialogues on a multitude of topics.
 
 “Literature has real value. It appeals to a more discerning audience. The Hay Festival here a few years ago was a huge success and led to increased awareness of Kerala thanks to word of mouth. It is time we established a durable institution that showcases Thiruvananthapuram and Kerala as a place of ideas and culture. But a lit-fest is not for visitors alone; it will also further energise the already vibrant reading culture in the state,” Tharoor said.
 
 Besides serving as an annual platform for the best in Indian and world literature, ‘Books on the Beach’ will over successive editions tap into the city’s youthful energy and distinctive charm to promote it as a leading destination for culture and tourism.
 
 “Cultural festivals play an important role in branding and promoting destinations. Kerala Tourism is presently positioning the state as an arts and culture hub. A literature festival with an international perspective will fit in nicely alongside the Kochi-Muziris Biennale, IFFK and International Theatre festival as powerful brand ambassadors. It will provide a fillip to tourism in the state, and in particular renew interest in Kovalam. The lit-fest will enjoy Kerala Tourism’s full support,” Venu said.
 
 The festival will reflect on historical and contemporary concerns, the environment, scientific progress and civilizational discourse, among others. As well, there will be soulful music, engaging storytelling sessions and amusing word games for children on offer.
 
 “We want to create three days of festivity at Kovalam centred around the literary festival. It’s a cultural festival, and we want families to come out and enjoy literature, music, food and lots of fun and cultural programmes,” Iqbal said.
 
 “For starters, we are planning a   Book Club’, which will organize frequent reading sessions and writing workshops in schools and colleges across the city,” Iqbal said.
 
 
