PUNE: The Bishop’s School, Camp, toppled the girls from St Mary’s School to win the  .

 The event was organised by The Times of India in association with ICAD School of Learning and theme park partner KidZania. The quiz was held at the Nehru Memorial Hall. 
 
 After winning the trophy,   (class IX),   and   (class VIII) from Bishop’s School said that they anticipated a 50-50 chance of winning the quiz before the final round as the St Mary’s team was leading the quiz until the penultimate round. 
 
 The Bishop’s boys said, “We were really nervous during the final round and our strategy was to respond to the question only if we knew the answer. All three of us, in fact, did pretty well in the final and deciding round.”
 
 Sneha Gupta (class VIII), Ananya Krishnan and Deepankita Saha (class VII) from St Mary’s School put up a brilliant performance but faltered in the final round losing crucial marks under pressure. They bagged the runners-up trophy at the event. The St Mary’s girls said, “I think we knew most of the answers but we need to improve on spelling them out at the right time. Had we done that, we could have scored more points. Nevertheless, we are happy.”
 
 The two-hour, high intensity rounds for the elimination and final sections were conducted by prominent quizzer Dyu D’Cunha. As many as 70 teams from different schools in the city participated in the quiz. Six teams made it to the final rounds. The City Pride School (18) scored the maximum points in the elimination round, followed by The Bishop’s School (17), Camp, Wisdom World School (15), and three teams tied for 14 points including St Mary’s School, Ryan International and the Hutchings High School.
 
 The names of the rounds and the pattern of the quiz was themed around demonetisation. While the first round was called Black Money, the second was named Inquiry, followed by Amnesty Scheme, Money Exchange, the Long Queue and the final round called Winning Economy. The quiz was more or less going head-to-head between the ultimate winners and runners-up while the rest tried to catch up with them. 
 
 Each time a question was answered a loud cheer rang out in the hall. The quiz master even threw some tricky questions at the audience during the break and right answers were awarded with gifts.
 
 In the penultimate round, it was decided that the top two leading teams would only play the final round. While St Mary’s School was leading at the end of the penultimate round with 8,000 points, it was The Bishop’s School at second spot with 5,500 points. It boiled down to boys versus girls in the Winning Economy round.
 
 Each team was asked ten questions, with three questions to each team member to be answered in rapid fire method within 45 seconds. The round began with the boys of The Bishop’s School who got as many as seven answers right. On the other hand, the St Mary’s girls got bogged down due to the pressure and could get only about three to four questions right. Ryan International School was adjudged the second runner up.
 
 Easwar Aiyar, academic head of ICAD School of Learning, said, “It was a well-conceived and executed event. The theme of demonetisation added an interesting twist to the quiz. The quizmaster did an excellent job of engaging the participants and audience throughout while children too participated in the right spirit.”
 
 Mayor Prashant Jagtap, who was the chief guest on the occasion, gave away the prize and the winning trophy to The Bishop’s School. Easwar Aiyar and Sonu Mirchandani, senior manager, group sales, KidZania Mumbai presented the trophy to the runners-up. Also present on the occasion were Tarandeeep Singh, head of marketing and Nilesh Kurle, head of group sales from KidZania Mumbai.
 
