NEW DELHI: Three years after four death row convicts in   rape-cum-murder case knocked at the doors of the   pleading for life, the apex court reserved its order on Monday on their appeal against conviction and sentence after holding a marathon hearing for more than 44 days.

 A bench of Justices Dipak Misra, R Banumathi and Ashok Bhushan went the extra mile to ensure that all aspects of the case was considered and even allowed the convicts to file fresh affidavits pointing out the mitigating circumstances which could be considered while deciding the quantum of sentence. 
 
 On the night of December 16, 2012, the 23-year-old paramedic was brutally assaulted and gang-raped in a moving bus in south Delhi and thrown out of the vehicle with her male friend. She died in a Singapore hospital on December 29. The convicts — Vinay Sharma (23), Akshay Thakur (31), Mukesh (29) and Pawan Gupta (22) — were awarded death penalty by a trial court in September 2013 and the   upheld their conviction and sentence on March 13, 2014. All the convicts then approached the Supreme Court which stayed their execution in 2014 and the matter was pending in the top court since then.
 
 Considering the complexity and public passion involved in the case, the Supreme Court had in April last year appointed two senior advocates -- Raju Ramachandaran and   --as amicus curiae to defend the convicts though they had lawyers defending them. Both the counsel argued that the convicts shouldn’t be given the extreme punishment. 
 
 A substantial part of the hearing in the apex court was confined to the quantum of sentence during which the lawyers of the convicts and amicus pointed out various inconsistencies in the probe done by police. They contended that brutality of a crime could not be the sole reason for bringing it under the rarest of the rare category warranting death sentence. They pleaded to the court to consider their young age, socio-economic background and other mitigating circumstances while deciding the quantum of sentence.
 
 They had earlier contended that the courts below failed to pay due regard to the mitigating factors, resulting in serious prejudice to the convicts and the apex court. 
 
 “Even if the brutal facts of this case meet the court’s standard of the rarest of the rare crime, it is submitted that there is simply not enough evidence to hold that all four of the accused are irredeemable criminals with no mitigating circumstance to save them from the gallows. While the crime was brutal, the evidence is not conclusive that all the accused participated in the brutality in equal measure,” advocate Hegde said.
 
 Senior advocate Sidharth Luthra, appearing for police, however, said no mercy should be shown to the convicts and they deserved death sentence. “It is submitted that the test of rarest of the rare is fully applicable in the present case and looking at the crime as also looking at the collective cry of society as also the trauma caused to the victim’s family who have suffered the agony of the brutalization of their young daughter and consequent death demonstrate that it is a case for death penalty alone,” he said.
 
 “The mitigating factors as stated individually and conjointly, do not make out a case for interference with the sentence and the only issue of prejudice on account of alleged non-consideration of sentencing by the courts below has been comprehensively dealt with by this court,” he said.
 
 
