BENGALURU: As Bengaluru gears up to host the 14th  , a global diaspora for NRIs and PIOs, politics has erupted over who will represent them.
 
 One of the largest   forum in the world is the   (GOPIO), having chapters across most countries where people of Indian origin live.It is claimed that GOPIO was in fact fundamental in starting the Pravasi Bharatiya Divas.
 
 Over the last two years, the GOPIO has, however, been undergoi n g a ch a n g e with more NRI i s s u e s a c ro s s the world and the forum diverting its attention from PIO-related issues to the NRI community.As per the schedule organized by the ministry of external affairs (MEA) for the PBD, the GOPIO is represented by their former president  . But the second generation PIO from Guyana was expelled by the GOPIO on alleged charges of embezzlement, claimed the current GOPIO office bearers. Speaking to TOI, GOPIO global ambassador   said the India Overseas department of the MEA has been persistently sidelining the GOPIO by not looking into the concerns raised by them.
 
 “Now, the Centre has invited Ashok Ramsaran who was impeached and expelled by the GOPIO on charges of embezzlement?“ Kulathakal said.
 
 Ku l a t h a k a l s a i d t h e grievance was raised before MoS exter nal affairs M J Akbar on January 4. “We have also told the Centre that if the organization is sidelined in the future, we will host a parallel session during the next PBD,“ said Kulathakal.
 
 The Centre, however, has conveyed to the GOPIO that it may not be possible to change the representative from the group scheduled to be for the PBD scheduled to begin from January 7.
 
 According to the GOPIO, Ramsaran may not be the recognized person to air their concerns as he is not part of the legitimate PIO forum. “We don't know to what extent Ramsaran will take up our concerns with the Centre, which has ignored most of the GOPIO members,“ said George Varghese, convenor for the GOPIO Bengaluru chapter. The GOPIO members blamed the top bureaucrats in the Indian Overseas department for the problem.
 
