Shobhaa De’s recent tweet fat-shaming Madhya Pradesh’s cop   simply goes on to tell the world that it is easy to body shame someone. ‘You’re too thin’ or ‘You have become fat’ are statements people are often greeted with by those around them, and even strangers online. The concept of being the ‘right size’, which doesn’t really exist, has only put pressure on men and women to go to extreme measures to ‘look’ the right size. And with advent of social media, free advice to ‘lose weight’, ‘put on weight’ or ‘be less muscular’ often jams one’s timeline. While some have succumbed to it, few others have come back strongly. As did Indo-Canadian stage actress and director,  . The actress, who moved back to India for work, faced several rejections as she was curvaceous. An unfazed   hit back quite glamorously — she teamed up with   to launch a calendar featuring men and women in all shapes and sizes, as an answer body shamers. Here is Mallika, telling us why   when it comes to her being herself…

 
 Across the world, women are being body-shamed mercilessly. But things are better abroad — I have done several stage plays in Canada, and I wanted to get into films. I have still not tried in   because age factor doesn’t play a role there — so I think there is more time for me to enter Hollywood. But in India, you will get the right opportunities only when you are of a certain age. So, I chose to come to India, especially south India, as I felt it is the home of the actual art of filmmaking. Even commercial films are comparatively less dramatic than they are in Bollywood. Moreover, south Indian women are curvy, so I thought I wouldn’t have a problem working here. But I was in for a surprise when I began to give auditions down south. I was asked by not one, but many, to lose weight. I began exercising, started opting for crazy diets... But still, people didn’t find me ‘fit enough’ to be a part of their film. Even if they say, ‘I don’t fit the part’, I am OK. But then, they asked me to ‘lose more weight’, which I didn’t understand. Even when I was in Canada, when I was heavier, I got to play central characters, for, there, talent matters, not your size. Ultimately, I started working out so much, that I ended up having a ligament tear. That was when I realised that I was ruining body, and my soul. I kept cursing myself for having ‘locked’ myself in this situation. When they (directors/ADs) speak to me, they talk in such manner that we actresses need to set examples, be role models for people out there. It took me a while to realise that one needn’t be a role model if one had to go through so many physical changes. I realised that I am beautiful, and that if at all I should be a role model, I should be one of those who whole-heartedly accept their body, I wanted to set an example for all the men and women who go through their lives trying to conform to a certain ‘body shape’. 
 
 
 It came to a point that I wanted to take a stance, and do something that would jolt the body-shamers. It is sad that people are body-shamed on various levels. Talk about matrimony, and you are constantly being judged by your weight. You are rejected because you are skinny, fat, or dark. I don’t understand why these criteria play a role when it comes to choosing the right partner for oneself. I also don’t understand the need to upload your best pictures on matrimonial sites for people to ‘choose us’. I don’t want people to feel ‘rejected’ because of these things. Some people go to the extent of going under the knife to look their best. Do they even know how dangerous those surgeries are? And medical companies, too, market these surgeries by offering them the lowest prices! 
 
 When it comes to films portraying fat women, it is even worse. Fat people are a joke on celluloid. Also, they are categorised as ‘item girls’. They always put down men and women who are too skinny or too fat. I feel words like ‘fat’ and ‘skinny’ degrade us. And those people, especially women, who have a slightly darker skin tone, find it hard to make it in films — and even if they are talented, they have to be content with ‘side roles’. I think the media should stop creating these images of perfection and putting undue pressure on people to look a certain way. Why can’t the media, instead of offering 100 tips to get a thigh gap, look thin or get flashboard abs, show everyone how to accept their own body, and move on happily in life? 
 
 
 I wanted to address the issue in a positive way. I started off by doing a short film called Rise Above — it was my friend Sembian Ranga Rajan, who came up with the idea of doing a video on body-shaming. While he shot and edited the video, I directed, wrote and acted in it. I wore body hugging suits to show people that I love my curves, my body, and that I am not ashamed of it at all. Later, Roshni Hemdev, the campaign manager for the calendar shoot, got in touch with me, asking me if I’d like to take this forward and make a movement out of it. She helped me conceptualise the movement and it was with her advice that we created this calendar. We met photographer G Venket Ram, and presented him with the idea, and he immediately said he was game for it. We featured people who had voiced out similar concerns in the past, in the calendar. We had all kinds of people — fat, thin, muscular, men and women with multiple tattoos, and so on. The message worked both ways — against body-shaming, and to help one feel beautiful and be happy with whatever body type they are blessed with. We want to take it forward, take it to colleges and universities, and corporate offices, and talk about campaign on various platforms. We are also planning to start a helpline for people to discuss any issues they have with their bodies.
 
 
