NEW DELHI: Deputy CM   will make a pitch for keeping the   on the lower side for “better compliance” at the crucial Goods and   ( ) Council meeting scheduled for May 18-19. 

 He is likely to urge the council to keep the concerns of small-time traders in mind before taking crucial decisions. The meeting will be held in Srinagar.
 
 The GST regime will come into effect from July 1. Finance ministers from all the states will participate in the meet, which will be chaired by Union finance minister  .
 
 Sisodia said, “So far, the GST meetings have been about processes, training of officers and ensuring smooth transition. This GST Council meet is the most crucial, for this is where the public comes into focus... To ensure that we convey the ground realities, I have been meeting various stakeholders and different trader associations to get their feedback.”
 
 He said he only lower tax slabs would ensure better compliance. “In my view, while deciding on the rates, the council should keep in mind the small traders and concerns of people from the small towns,” Sisodia added. He was referring to how the AAP government tried to rationalise VAT over two years by doing away with variable tax slabs on certain items and bringing the rate down. 
 
 Meanwhile, the VAT department is also in the process of giving final touches to the draft Delhi GST Bill before it is placed before the cabinet. The Bill will then be tabled in the assembly. A special session is expected to be called later this month.
 
 Of the 4.05 lakh traders registered with the VAT department, 2.69 lakhs have enrolled on the GST portal. The enrolment, the deadline for which was April 30, will open again in June. While many traders could not sign up as their PAN card details did not match with the ones registered with the department, VAT registration of 19,000 traders have been cancelled. 
 
 Once GST comes into effect, VAT will cease to exist except in the case of liquor and five petroleum products, including diesel and petrol. The luxury tax and entertainment tax will be merged. The excise duty on liquor will continue, along with VAT, even after the transition to the GST regime, said government officials.
 
 The portal seeks to empower the traders with a complete online experience with no manual interface. From uploading of bills and filing of returns to tax payment, the entire process will be online.
 
 
