LUCKNOW: Led by PM  , BJP is carpet bombing Varanasi and its surrounding regions with an array of ministers and senior leaders as the battle for   heads for a furious climax with the final two rounds of polling to go.

 With the Varanasi area due to go to polls on March 8, a battery of Union ministers is camping in the holy city giving an impression that a significant part of the government has virtually moved to the city.
 
 Saturday, in fact, will see a 
  SP chief   and Congress vice-president   holding rival road shows. Akhilesh’s wife and Kannauj MP Dimple Yadav, too, will be present. Besides, BSP chief Mayawati will also address multiple rallies in and around the city to end her campaign.
 
 Home minister  , finance minister  , power minister Piyush Goyal, law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, textile minister Smriti Irani, MoS finance Santosh Gangwar, MSME minister Kalraj Mishra, I&B minister Venkaiah Naidu, health minister J P Nadda and other junior ministers like Anupriya Patel and Mahendra Pandey have been in and out of Varanasi.
 
 Modi himself will spend the next three days in his constituency to give a final push to the party’s campaign. Modi will make an overnight stay in his constituency on Sunday. Before that, he will hold a road show in the heart of the city and two rallies in Jaunpur and City South on Saturday. He will come back on Sunday for another rally at Kashi Vidyapeeth and meet intellectuals at DWL. On the last day of campaigning, he would address two more rallies at Rohaniya and Sewapuri. 
 
 
  
 
 Party president Amit Shah is already stationed here. All senior ministers who are camping here are going to nearby constituencies to address rallies and are coming back to the city.
 
 Ministers like Manoj Sinha and Anupriya Patel, on the other hand, are focussing on their respective areas of influence -Ghazipur and Mirzapur--to woo the voters.Apart from these ministers, party stalwarts like Yogi Adityanath, state chief Keshav Maurya and chief ministers of BJP-ruled states are completing BJP's star parade.
 
 Congress, too, has its share of veteran leaders trooping in the city. While UP in-charge Ghulam Nabi Azad is reaching on Saturday to take part in the road show, UPCC chief Raj Babbar, former Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot, PL Punia and Pradeep Mathur have already reached here. While BJP and Congress have flooded the holy city with their big guns, Mayawati will bank on her foot soldiers who will camp in all 40 constituencies going tot he polls in the last phase.
 
 “This is to counter the massive electoral campaign blitzkrieg launched by the BJP brass in the last phase where some of the important constituencies, including Varanasi, are at stake,“ said a senior BSP leader on the condition of anonymity. The cadre will be in close coordination with Mayawati's close aides like RS MP SC Mishra, MLC Naseemuddin Siddiqui, MP Siddharth Ashok, MP Munquad Ali and MLA Indrajeet Saroj. “We are in constant touch with the party leaders to see that no area is left untouched,“ said BSP functionary Arun Dwivedi.
 
 BSP sources said the cadre, comprising Muslim leaders and those from the upper caste, will work in the 10 reserved constituencies where BSP has been performing poorly . In 2012, out of the 10 reserved seats, BSP could win only two, while seven were won by SP and one by an Independent candidate.
 
