GURUGRAM: Haze and   pushed Gurgaon up the charts to the most polluted city in the country for two days in a row — Tuesday and Wednesday.

 According to data provided by   (CPCB), Gurgaon’s 24-hour average air quality index (AQI) was 356 (the highest in the country) and 354 on Tuesday and Wednesday, respectively, while it touched the 308 mark (second highest in the country) on Thursday. In comparison, both Delhi and Faridabad (neighbouring industrial hub) recorded 30 to 40% lesser pollution on all these three days.
 
 Similarly, the 24-hour concentration of PM2.5 also remained high on these days. While it was 199.89 micrograms per cubic metre and 199.76 micrograms per cubic metre on Tuesday and Wednesday, respectively, on Thursday, the highest level of PM2.5 was recorded at 173.56 micrograms per cubic metre.
 
 Officials of Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) blamed the haze over the region for the increase in the level of PM2.5. “Weather conditions are majorly responsible for the increase in level of particulate matter. We have ensured that adequate measures are put in place to control dust emitting from construction sites, including under-construction underpasses on Delhi-Gurgaon expressway,” said an official.
 
 “The dust storm on Wednesday formed a haze in the lower atmosphere. There is forecast of another dust storm, along with showers in next 12 hours. The days will be clearer over the weekend and wind speed is expected to go up. This might bring down air pollution,” said a Met official.
 
 Experts, however, once again blamed dust pollution at construction sites for the rise in the levels of air pollution. “Weather conditions are indeed favourable as wind speed is higher and showers always help clear particulate matter in the atmosphere. Also, neighbouring cities such as Delhi and Faridabad are not reporting such high levels of air pollution. The reason is massive construction activities on most arterial roads in the city,” said Karuna Tiwari, a retired professor of environmental sciences.
 
