LUCKNOW: Replying to questions raised by Narendra   on development work in the state by the SP led government, chief minister   Yadav on Wednesday asked the prime minister to drive down the Lucknow-Agra Expressway. “I am sure after a good drive on the expressway built in record time and within limited state resources, Modi ji will cast his vote for cycle,” he said, while campaigning for SP candidates in Sarojininagar and Lucknow Central. 

 “Modi ji keeps saying no work has been done in UP by Samajwadi Party and I want to ask him what has he as PM done for the capital of India’s largest political state,” said Akhilesh. Responding to PM’s jibe about inauguration of Lucknow-Agra Expressway without completing the construction, Akhilesh said Narendra Modi is only saying what he had been asked to say by BJP workers and should instead do a reality check by driving down the road.
 
 Reacting to Modi’s remark on why no BJP minster had been taken along for   trial run, Akhilesh said, “Which metro does Modi ji want to travel on—Ghaziabad, Noida or Lucknow? If he wants to ride the Lucknow metro, I would request him to direct railway ministry to give no-objection certificate to operate it commercially and I will escort him personally on the ride.” Akhilesh also took a dig at Modi’s signature show and said people have heard his ‘Mann ki Baat’ several times but now he should start doing ‘kaam ki baat’. 
 
 Highlighting problems faced by people due to demonitisation, Akhilesh said people were asked to deposit all 500 and 1,000 notes in the name of fight against black money. “All money has been deposited now and Modi ji should tell people how much black money has been recovered,” he said, adding, “Several died standing in bank queues but Central government did nothing. We (SP government) gave Rs 2 lakh to the families of victim. A pregnant woman in Kanpur delivered a baby boy in a bank queue and was named Khazanchi (cashier) and gave them financial assistance of Rs 2 lakh,” he said. 
 
 Targeting BSP supremo Mayawati, he said “She has only given stone elephants to the state, which are apparently of no use. People cannot accommodate elephants in their houses, bicycles (SP symbol) are at least portable and of some use.”
 
 
