NEW DELHI: National security adviser Ajit Doval spoke to Nepal PM   on Friday amid rising anti-India sentiments after media reports claimed a Nepali national was shot dead by Indian troops in Kanchanpur abutting Lakhimpur Kheri following a clash over illegal construction of a culvert by some locals on Thursday. 

 The Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB), which is alleged to have killed the Nepali national, denied any shooting. “It is alleged in the media that one Nepalese citizen has died due to SSB firing. The SSB officials concerned have denied any firing,” the force said in a statement on Friday. The Indian embassy in Kathmandu too denied that the SSB had fired upon Nepalis.
 
 The border guarding force has ordered a fact-finding inquiry to be conducted by a deputy inspector general-rank officer.
 
 Officials said the SSB was yet to get the post-mortem report of the deceased and there were reports that he might have died due to a liver ailment. In a statement on Friday, MEA spokesperson Gopal Baglay said, “Nepal is being requested through diplomatic channels to share the post-mortem and forensic reports to facilitate the process (of probe).”
 
 Foreign minister   spoke to deputy Nepal PM Bimalendra Nidhi and senior MEA official Sudhakar Dalela met the Nepal ambassador in India Deep Upadhyay to discuss the matter.
 
 According to Nepali media reports, Gobinda Gautam (32) of Kanchanpur was killed in alleged firing by SSB personnel who patrol the  . Kanchanpur district on the Nepal side abuts Lakhimpur Kheri district in UP.
 
 India called for calm while survey officials on both sides of the border discuss the location of border pillars which is a prerequisite to construction work being undertaken in the border area.
 
 The SSB said the chain of events was triggered on Wednesday when some “Nepalese people gathered near pillar No.200” and tried to construct a culvert.
 
 “They were stopped from doing so as earlier, the authorities from both sides had agreed to allow construction of culvert only after conducting a joint geological survey. But yesterday, in the morning, a group of Nepalese people gathered at the same site and started pelting stones on SSB personnel, local police and administrative authorities on duty,” it said.
 
 While the local police fired a tear gas shell, two were fired by Nepal police to “disperse the crowd”, it said. “Nine SSB personnel and 34 Indian civilians were injured in the stone pelting,” it added.
 
 The force said the situation on the   border in Lakhimpur Kheri was tense. “A large number of Nepalese people have gathered on the spot again and are shouting anti-India slogans and pelting stones. Local officials and SSB officers are on the spot,” the border guarding force said.
 
 
