BHOPAL/RAIPUR:   was so casual about the murder of his parents that he doesn’t remember the date when, in his own words, he “strangled and buried them”. Asked why he killed them, he said he was tired of being nagged to get a job. 

 According to one of the policemen who interrogated him, Udyan admitted to killing his parents “sometime around the month of July or August in 2010”. Earlier, when confronted with  , he had displayed the same nonchalance, initially claiming he killed her in December 2016, then saying he strangled her “one day in July”. “I made breakfast for her... and then strangled her,” he had said.
 
 His account of the murder of his parents is no less chilling. “He says his father was not at home when he decided to kill his mother. He had gone out to buy chicken. Finding his mother alone in the bedroom, he strangled her there. When his father returned and asked about his mother, Udyan calmly told him that she is in the bedroom. As his father was fond of tea, he made him a cup and spiked it with sleeping pills. After some time, when his father started feeling sleepy, he strangulated him as well.”
 
 The question is, why?   are not convinced with Udyan’s claim that he killed his parents in a fit of rage because they kept pressuring him to look for a job. He said they used to pester him to appear in placement sessions at the engineering college where he studied.
 
 “During preliminary questioning, Udyan told police that he was a student of   and that he could not clear many subjects. He had failed many papers but his parents were not aware of this,” Raipur SP Dr Sanjay Shukla told reporters on Sunday. Udyan has said that in his fifth year of college, the nagging got worse and he decided to end it. 
 
 But investigators feel there is more to it that what he claims. “He has a fetish for high-end cars and wanted to go abroad. We suspect he killed them so that he could sell the house and indulge in his desires. His motive was money. We don’t think he killed his parents simply because they scolded him for failing in engineering and not getting a job,” said a source.
 
 Police hope to question him intensively once they get his custody. In particular, they want to know how he dug the pits so deep to bury the bodies. Even with a mechanical excavator, it took over six hours on Sunday to reach the bodies. Police say he may have had help although the accomplice may not have known he was abetting a crime. One possibility is that he might have brought in labourers to dig a pit, claiming that he was building a septic tank. 
 
 “There are many gaps in the sequence of events. We need to interrogate him in our custody,” said an officer.
 
