BHOPAL: In 2011, when the new   was inaugurated it was billed as the best airport among tier-II cities in the country. With its extended new runway, it was claimed Bhopal will be connected to all prominent cities in the country and even   would begin.

 In 2017, Bhopal is not even among top 30 airports of the country.
 
 The airport has limited operations connecting few cities while the footfall dropped to less than half. Surprisingly, none of the private airlines are interested to operate from here. This, at a time when several private carriers have expanded their operations in  .
 
 Bhopal currently is connected only to Delhi, Mumbai, Raipur, Pune and Hyderabad with limited number of flights. It has practically no flight service to East and South India.
 
 In past two years, Bhopal has lost connectivity with important destinations like Ahmedabad and Lucknow. 
 
 Private airlines Jet and SpiceJet that started operations to Chennai and Hyderabad and Kolkata had withdrawn services to these sectors after few months citing operational problems and low traffic. 
 
 State government’s move to encourage private airlines to operate in the state too had miserably failed. After studying the neighbouring states, government even lowered VAT on   (ATF) from 23% to 5%. That too made no difference.
 
 On the contrary, reduction of VAT on ATF announced by neighbouring Chhattisgarh government has immensely benefitted the state. In Chhattisgarh, Raipur airport is linked to Bhopal, Hyderabad, Indore, Mumbai, Kolkata, Visakhapatnam and Delhi.
 
 None of the private airlines IndiGo and SpiceJet that evinced interest to start operations from Bhopal had decided to go ahead with the project.
 
 Director, Raja Bhoj airport Akashdeep Mathur admitted about poor traffic at the airport. “People prefer train travel from Bhopal as city is well connected by rail network,” said Mathur. There will be no change in flight schedule until summer.
 
 Number of average daily flyers at Raja Bhoj airport have also come down to 700 from 1,000.
 
 The low frequency of flights from Bhopal airport also deprives passengers from the city the benefits of special fares announced by airlines from time to time. While Delhi-Mumbai, Delhi –Bangalore, Mumbai-Goa, Mumbai-Hyderabad flights offer special rates of Rs 3,500 the minimum price on a Bhopal-Mumbai sector is Rs 5,400 (that too booked three weeks in advance). The same is for Delhi. The fare goes up to Rs 8,000 to 12,000 in case of an emergency travel.
 
 Low frequency of flights to Bhopal have even hampered the tourism industry in and around the state capital. While MP State Tourism Development Corporation has made aggressive promotion of state and its tourist destinations, Bhopal too have a great potential heritage sites like Bhojpur temple and Bhimbetka and UNESCO site of Sanchi.
 
