Chennai: Demonetisation may have hurt tyre companies but it had one positive fallout — it almost wiped out cheap Chinese imports. According to top tyre companies, Chinese imports — a cause for major worry among Indian tyre makers — came down to almost nil post-November because a large component of the trade was cash driven. Although imports are picking up again from mid February, this time round bigger operators are in the fray, who pay taxes and offer products at competitive and not throw-away prices, say industry experts.

  “Demonetisation impacted our sales in December and January but it also hit Chinese imports. For nearly three months, there were hardly any imports but Chinese tyres are back from February,” said Vikram Malhotra, director marketing, JK Tyre.
 
 The new market dynamics, say experts, is less driven by the cut-price positioning of earlier imports. “Dumping of Chinese tyres came down after demonetization because many of those tyres were sold on cash and there was a lot of VAT evasion by traders. December-January saw Chinese imports come down 50%. Imports are back from February but they are being imported by bigger and more regularized traders who pay taxes,” said Satish Sharma, president, Asia Pacific, Middle East and Africa, Apollo Tyres. 
 
 Creeping increase rubber prices global is also bringing down the price differential. “Raw material prices have impacted both us and them and price of Chinese tyres have gone up by 10%,” Sharma said. That’s a bit of silver lining for the tyre market which has been hit by dumping of Chinese tyres as well as the slowdown in the market. 
 
 The truck & bus radial tyre market is facing strong headwinds with production declining by 20%, said industry body Automotive Tyre Manufacturers Association (ATMA). From more than 5.5 lakh truck & bus radials in June last year, the production fell to 4.5 lakh radials in December 2016. “The industry’s truck radial production took a dip in December on account of lower demand. Truck freight growth has been nominal and BS IV emission norms applicable from April would temporarily disrupt truck sales,” said Koshy K Varghese, executive VP, marketing, MRF.
 
 Truck& Bus radial (TBR) tyres have been the fastest growing segment for the tyre industry accounting for two thirds of the Rs 35,000 crore investments made in recent years. “With new capacities going on stream and declining production, the industry is staring at the grim prospects of gross underutilization of TBR capacities. Truck & Bus tyres account for 55% of tyre industry’s revenues in India,” said the ATMA report. “In view of excess capacities and continued surge in Chinese tyre imports, the industry is not in a position to pass on the increased cost of production impacting competitiveness,” said KM Mammen, chairman ATMA.
 
 
