

 
 
 It’s just 7 am, and the garden is abuzz with activity. Sporting loose track pants and hoodies, these young guns are in the midst of a serious freerunning practice session. As 16-year-old student, Takam Todo twists his slim body mid-air and does a backflip, one can’t help but be left in awe. “It’s thrilling to be in the air,” says Takam, among the youngest members of the lot. Freerunning also comprises movements like hiking (climbing), swinging, hurdling and quadrupedal movement (moving on all fours).
 
  For these men and women of grit, an injury is no reason to give up on the discipline. Says another member Deepti Sinha, an engineer by profession, “I have been training for a year now. Yes, I’ve had my share of injuries, but the sport teaches you to develop a never-give-up attitude. Consistency in practice gives you the much needed physical strength.”
 
 
 In a bid to raise awareness about freerunning, the group has been approaching various city schools to have it incorporated into the curriculum. “We’ve received a positive response from some schools and are hopeful they will include freerunning from the coming academic year,” says Deepak. 
 Besides this, the group is active on social media, uploading videos of practice sessions on a regular basis. Deepti says, “Many people have approached us to learn the form after seeing these videos, most of them between the age group of 15 and 17.” 
 
 
 The group goes by the name Make Your Own Way (MYOW), claiming to be the only one in the city that practises freerunning. The form has been around in India for a few years now with plenty of professional videos that you can learn from. But  , whose fascination with freerunning also began on YouTube, cautions not to imitate them without professional supervision. “I am martial arts practitioner and decided to challenge myself with freerunning,” says Deepak, who after mastering the art, decided to coach friends. His group meets either at Chinchwad, Hadapsar or Bund Garden to train thrice a week. “Bund Garden is a preferred option as it has a combination of walls, stairs and other elements that can double up as hurdles for practice,” says the 27-year-old, who also trains NSG commandos in parkour, in Mumbai every week.
 
  
 Though the two terms might seem similar; the difference lies in the mind set, says Deepak. “Parkour is developed from military obstacle course training, and it includes jumping, running, swinging, and climbing in the quickest possible way. Freerunning is very similar, but it includes more stylistic acrobatic jumps and flips,” he explains.
 
  
  
 
 For other members, it was film influences that led them to sign up to learn freerunning, as is in the case of Sagar Londhe, 20, who has been associated with the form for two years now. He says, “I was inspired by Tiger Shroff’s moves in the song Zindagi Aa Raha Hu Main, and decided to learn freerunning after getting to know about it online. It has now become part of my everyday routine.” There’s not a single wall in his college that Sagar hasn’t leapt over. “There was a time I wouldn’t wake up before 10 am, but eversince I made freerunning a routine, my day begins on a disciplined note at 5 am,” he adds. 16-year-old freerunning member, Yuvraj Kharwa, a die-hard Tony Jaa fan, echos a similar sentiment. “I always wanted to jump, swing and do backflips like him. Thanks to freerunning, I have been able to gainmental endurance and can do all of these now.” The lad claims that it’s way easier waking up at 5 am for practice than it is to study.
 
 
  
 
 If heading to the gym after a long day isn’t really up your alley, here’s why freerunning could be an option to consider. The members claim that it’s one of the best ways to truly enjoy the urban outdoors while sweating it out. Deepti says, “Besides fitness, for me, working out in the outdoors is a better bet than being cooped up in the gym. Besides, sweating it out in an open space seems to help our reflexes and improve agility.” Deepak also believes that freerunning isn’t competitive; you can’t win or lose. “But your physical strength alone can determine your movement through any 
 terrain,” he says.
  
 
  
  
 
