The owners and trustees of the heritage buildings along D N Road, right from CST to Flora Fountain, are worried that tunnelling for the   route (line III) will rock the foundations of some of the city's oldest structures.

 The route's pre-launch activities have begun and from September onwards, the   (MMRC) will use a combination of cut-and-cover digging and mechanized boring to make the tunnel. At present, shafts are being dug at 10 locations along the route's alignment to place tunnelling equipment, mainly a massive tunnel boring machine (TBM). Soil testing work is underway .
 
 Locals say the buildings have their foundation pillars just four to six metres below ground and are mostly on saline (watery) sedimentation, which cannot sustain tremors from a gigantic boring machines, or even from activity involved in cut-and-cover digging and rock blasting. Such processes will be carried out day and night underground over five years. At some locations, such as between Fountain and the Thomas Cook building, there will be the   station, the concourse level of which would be at a shallow depth, and very close to the buildings' foundation pillars, said a local heritage building association member. He said most of the heritage buildings were built at least 140 years ago.
 
 But an architect said the boring machine would not pose much harm. “But special care will have to be taken while boring, not just to avoid any adverse impact on ad joining heritage structures, but also to avoid inconvenience to residents who will use pathways and roads in the ar ea.“ Most heritage buildings have heavy stone structures above the ground and are vulnerable to cracks.
 
 Interestingly, two years ago, a balcony of Sukhadwala Building near   fell down during drilling work to create basements for parking as part of renovation work.
 
 Tunnelling experts allay such fears, saying TBM work is a time-tested process, and has already been used in old cities like London, without causing much harm. Also, they say, TBM is accompanied with sensitive monitoring instruments.
 
