NEW DELHI: The Centre has approved new projects at an indicative cost of over Rs 370 crore for its ongoing   in Haridwar and Varanasi and decided to include six more cities\towns under surface cleaning exercise of the river using  .

 Surface cleaning of the river Ganga in the cities - Rishikesh, Haridwar, Garh Mukhteshwar, Sahibganj, Kolkata and Navdweep - will begin this week. Urban local bodies will be the nodal agency to monitor this work, approved by the   (NMCG).
 
 The decision to extend the use of trash skimmers to the six cities\towns will take the number of cities to be covered under river surface cleaning plan to 12. The government had last year introduced the same in Allahabad, Kanpur, Varanasi, Mathura-Vrindavan in Uttar Pradesh and Patna in   under its ambitious ‘Namami Gange’ programme.
 
 “This task was performed under the corporate social responsibility (CSR) head and proved to be extremely effective. In the coming days, more towns will be identified for carrying out similar activities”, said a statement of the Union water resources ministry on Monday.
 
 The ‘Namami Gange’ programme was launched as a mission to achieve the target of cleaning river Ganga in an effective manner by involving all stakeholders, especially five major Ganga basin states – Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, Bihar and West Bengal. 
 
 The programme envisages river surface cleaning, STP infrastructure, river front development, bio-diversity, afforestation and public awareness.
 
 The new projects, approved by the NMCG for Haridwar, include setting up 68 million litres per day (MLD) sewage treatment plant (STP) in Jagjeetpur and 14 MLD STP in Sarai at an indicative cost of Rs 110.30 crore and Rs 25 crore, respectively, under Hybrid Annuity based PPP mode. 
 
 Apart from this, while Rs 8.34 crore has been allocated for tertiary treatment of existing 27 MLD plant in Jagjeetpur, Rs 5.32 crore has been allocated for tertiary treatment of existing 18 MLD plant in Sarai under Design, Build, Operate and Transfer (DBOT) mode. 
 
 “Interception and diversion (I&D) works at Jagjeetpur and Sarai would be done at an indicative cost of Rs 81.15 crore and Rs 29.75 crore respectively under DBOT mode”, said the statement.
 
 Besides, an in-principle approval for the implementation of 50 MLD STP at Ramana in Varanasi has also been given at an indicative cost of Rs 120 crore under Hybrid Annuity-based PPP mode. 
 
 “After completion of the tender processes, Administrative Approval and Expenditure Sanction (AA&ES) of the projects will be given by executive committee”, said the ministry.
 
 
