On Thursday,   added another trophy to her list of Hollywood accolades, when her Alex Parrish act in 'Quantico' garnered a second People's Choice award for Favourite Dramatic TV Actress. The 34-year old actress was nominated alongside   (Grey's Anatomy), Taraji P Henson (Empire), Viola Davis (How to Get Away With Murder) and   (Scandal). Last year, she'd won in the Favorite Actress in a New TV Series category for the same show.

  
  
 PeeCee spoke to Mirror from Los Angeles after the win, saying, "I'm still reeling from having received this award and being nominated alongside such incredible actresses, Ellen, Taraji, Viola and Kerry, who were the reason I wanted to be on TV. They're all icons in the entertainment business who met me, took me under their wing and wished me well individually. When you come from a different country and mainstream America doesn't know you, it's tough. I've worked hard and it's been difficult leaving home for so long but my show is a season-and-a-half-old now and this kind of acknowledgement and love is a real pat on the back."
 
 Speaking of pats on the back, there has been a steady stream of those on her on-point red carpet looks in the West. She topped her golden girl act at the recently concluded   with a peachy, understated look at People's Choice. "I tell my stylist about my state of mind ahead of a red carpet. For the Globes, I wanted to be a Golden Globe myself," PeeCee laughs, adding that she'd been shooting for 'Quantico' in nippy New York before arriving in warmer Los Angeles for the ceremony so wanted to feel spring-y and went for a chilled-out outfit this time. "I'm not someone who does a lot of planning."
 
 While she steadily makes inroads in the West, Priyanka's contemporaries from back home are setting out on their own Hollywood journeys. Her ' ' co-star  's debut, 'xXx: Return of Xander Cage', opens in American theatres today while   recently let it slip on a talk show that she's signed with the Hollywood talent management agency, UTA.
 
 PeeCee has only one advice for anyone who wants to make it in the entertainment business anywhere in the world. "There are so many beautiful and talented people, it's important to find out who you are and be yourself. I always tell actors that if you try to be like somebody else, you lose your identity. Imitation is the best form of flattery, but you need to have your own identity. I have my own idols but I've always tried to be true to myself. That's the only way to stand out," she signs off.
 
  
  
 
  
  
