When it comes to inspirations,   likes to keep an open mind. “ As an artist, your experiences accumulate into memories and you convert them into ideas. This is why I am always open to influences that can come from anywhere, be it art, music or drama.“ Vasudev is talking to us at Gallery Sumukha sitting amidst 19 tapestries that are a part of the ongoing exhibition, Painted Weaves. The tapestries are a result of a collaboration between Vasudev and   that began in 1995. “During my early travels to Europe, I'd seen beautiful tapestries of Picasso or Braque in art galleries or banks and similar spaces. I found them to beautiful and wanted to do something similar but never knew how,“ he recalls. The answer to his `how' transpired when Vasudev happened to visit   one day at his Bengaluru home. “I saw tapestries that he'd got made of his paintings. I asked him if he'd got the work done in Jaipur, and he said that he had a weaver here who did it. I asked him if he could introduce me to the weaver,“ Vasudev says of that event. A brief first meeting with Subbarayulu followed.

 “I gave him a small painting of mine and asked him if he could make a tapestry. He took six months to do it.I could see that he was struggling and I eventually asked him if weaving tap estries would turn bothersome for him. That's when he said that he found it difficult to weave my painting because I had used different, complicated colours.“ Subburayulu then set down three tenets that Vasudev says the duo have religiously been following for 22 long years.
 
 “He asked me to never paint anything solely for tapestries. He didn't want me simplifying my paintings to make things easy for him. Two, he asked me not to set a timeframe for the weaving. His final condition was that I would pay him whatever he asked me“. Today, Vasudev says, the collaboration has evolved and become a comfortable relation ship where the artist and the crafts man understand each other well. have friends who ask me if our ego don't get the better of us. My response is, “How can egos affect us. I need him just as much as he needs me!“ About the process that goes in weaving the artworks, Vasudev says, “I select a painting that I feel will look good as a tapestry. We then make a print and it's placed under the stand loom. We choose the threads from the market, and we dye the colours that are not available.“ To ensure that they are unique “We only do one weave of each painting because there has got to be some uniqueness, isn't it?“ says Vasudev.
 
 Looking at the big picture, Vasudev believes that more artists need to collaborate with craftsmen. “The line between arts and crafts in India is a very thin one. And I think it's important for artists to nurture long-time collaborations with craftsmen, who sadly are exploited in the country.“
 
