NASHIK: If the   (IT) collection figures from Nashik region are any anything to go by, then the city and its adjoining areas are heading towards robust   

 The income tax collection in the last fiscal by Nashik IT division registered 12% growth as compared to 2015-16. Other tax collections like advance tax, sales assessment tax and regular tax witnessed a 46.73% growth. The IT officials said these figures indicate Nashik's economic growth is on the rise.
 
 "There has been a growth of 12% in income tax collection through tax deducted at source (TDS) during 2016-17 as compared to 2015-16. During the last fiscal, the department had made a revenue collection of Rs 4744.1 crores. Even with regards to collection of other taxes Nashik IT division has recorded 46.73% growth in the last fiscal as compared to 2015-16. The total number of tax payers in Nashik region is 8,66,688," informed  , joint commissioner of Nashik division of Income Tax. 
 
 The official recalled that the department has made significant strides in the country by mobilising resources from a meagre Rs 1.1 crore in 1860-61 to about Rs 848 thousand crore in 2016-17 with the total number of tax payers reaching to almost 7.4 crore across India.
 
 Responding to a question, the IT official said the growth in collection of revenue by Nashik division is due to initiatives like e-governance, e-assessment, e-filing of returns, e-Nivaran (online redressal of complaints) and other online services, introduced to provide tax payers better services and at the same time mining way to increase tax payers.
 
 "Nashik's economy is definitely growing. Income is growing, hence, the economy is also growing," Mrinal.
 
  Income Tax Day to be 
 
  celebrated tomorrow: The income tax department has arranged for a number of activities for observing the Income Tax Day on July 24 - marking 157 years of existence of the department. 
 
 To mark the day, the Nashik office has organised essay writing and slogan competitions for officers of the department on the subject "The role of income tax in nation building". Painting competition has also been organised for children of the employees.
 
 A function will be held at   on   at 3 pm. Officers of Central and state government, members of trade associations, members of CA/ITP Association, retired officers have been invited for the same. 
 
