MUMBAI: The term healthcare is synonymous with doctors and their specialized skills, but as India marches towards universal healthcare access, the focus is also on a new cadre of workers. Called allied healthcare professionals, these women and men in white prepare the ground for doctors to perform. 

 From carrying out MRI scans, prepping dialysing machines or operating the life-saving ICU equipment, allied professionals do the essential bits that keep hospitals and the healthcare machinery running.
 
 This realization has resulted in the central government’s ministry of health and family welfare setting down norms for specialized courses for allied healthcare professionals roughly three years ago. From   (TISS) to deemed universities like D Y   (see box), many now offer a degree course in allied health sciences. The focus of these bachelor of vocational studies could be lab technology, imaging technology or patient care. “Vocational courses are work-integrated training programmes so that students are job ready,” said TISS dean of vocational courses, Dr Neela Dhabir. 
 
 There is an economic reason for the introduction of these courses. In 2010, NGO Public Health Foundation of India prepared a report for the health ministry, which said that India had a shortage of 64 lakh allied healthcare professionals. “India is short by 8.5 lakh anaesthetists and technicians trained to run an operation theatre, 20.4 lakh dental staff (dental technicians and hygienists), 1.27 lakh ophthalmologists and optometrists, 18 lakh rehabilitation specialists (clinical psychologists), 61,000 medical laboratory technicians, 19,000 radiographers, 7,500 audiology and speech language specialists and 2.3 lakh medical staff-like dieticians,” said the report.
 
 Previous estimates of the planning commission said India has a shortage of 6 lakh doctors and 10 lakh nurses. “But our hospitals alone will need 20 lakh allied professionals,” said Dr   of the Lifesupporters Institutes of Health Sciences, which conducts these courses along with TISS and various hospitals
 
 To get “job-ready” profiles, these courses are designed wi- th 75% pracital knowledge and 25% classroom work. “From Day 1, our students have to spend 18 hours a week at their workplaces and two hours in a classroom,” said Dr Dhabir. So, a student who has enrolled for a course in catherisation technology would be introduced to the world of angiograms and angiographies right at the beginning of his/her BVoc course. 
 
 The emergence of allied healthcare courses also marks the importance of standardisation and transparency in healthcare. “Today, it is a norm for hospitals to seek accreditation from National Accreditation Board of Hospitals (NABH),” said Dr Navalkar. “For an NABH accreditation, a hospital has to have technicians who have recognised degrees. Earlier, an X-ray technician didn’t have a degree. Now, it is a necessity,” he added. 
 
 For students, these courses provide an advantage. “Students start getting a stipend the minute they start the course. If not in first year, then at least in the second year,” he added. Moreover, given the gap between demand and supply, most can get a job as soon as they pass out. There is another hook. Many of these jobs are in great demand in the Gulf and Europe. “An emergency care worker or a dialysis technician can apply for an overseas job after getting two-year experience,” said educators. Students who complete BVoc courses can apply for post-graduate courses like MBA or appear for   and MPSC exams.
 
