BHUBANESWAR:   are not satisfied with   Lok Sabha leader Sudip Bandyopadhyay’s deposition on his  . They are digging out files to find out who sponsored his trips abroad when Bandyopadhyay had a good rapport with   Gautam Kundu and his wife. CBI officers also questioned Bandyopadhyay’s colleague Tapas Paul over Kundu’s Tollywood connections. 

 The principal of a south Kolkata college was also questioned over the admission of Kundu’s son allegedly against a high-value donation. CBI officers suspect that the admission was made on Bandyopadhyay’s recommendation. They are now trying to find out if the Trinamool MP had taken any gratification money against it. CBI may also question another person associated with the collegiate school though Kundu has taken away his son from the school.
 
 The role of a Tollywood actress has already come under the CBI scanner as officers started examining the foreign trips of the Rose Valley boss. Investigators have reasons to believe that the actress and her husband were closely linked with Kundu and the Rose Valley boss used their network to stash money abroad. According to sources, the Rose Valley boss took a chartered flight from Kolkata to Delhi and then to Europe with the actress. From a city in Europe he flew to Atlanta a few days before Biswa Bangla Sammelan, while the actress accompanied him.
 
 Sudip Bandyopadhyay, who was known to both Kundu and his wife, was questioned further about his trips. While Bandyopadhyay tried to wash off his hands claiming that he was not aware of the payments Rose Valley made to his travel agent, sleuths could not be convinced.
 
 Meanwhile, Sudip’s wife Nayana Bandyopadhyay took a 12 noon flight to Bhubaneswar and reached CBI’s office at around 2pm. Being asked about Sudip’s arrest she said, “They (CBI) do not have any proof against him, but they took him in custody. Why aren’t they taking action against CPM’s Sujan Chakraborty?” she asked. Refuting CBI’s claim that Bandyopadhyay is an influential political leader she said, “Had he been an influential one, he would not have been behind the bars. It’s a conspiracy by Modi and the CPM.”
 
 CBI officers in Kolkata on Thursday summoned the principal of a south Kolkata college to its office at the CGO Complex in Salt Lake. “Kundu’s son was studying in that college. Kundu had made a donation of Rs 71 lakh to the college,” said a CBI officer. The agency is tracking more such payments to find out if the Rose Valley boss had routed his ill-gotten money through any educational institution in the guise of donation or charity.
 
 “Kundu is a hard nut to crack unlike Sardaha boss Sudipta Sen. He had been hiding his assets over the years,” said an investigator. During an interrogation, the Rose Valley boss himself told an investigator that he is craftier than Sudipta.
 
 Meanwhile, Enforcement Directorate has identified few more properties of the Rose Valley group and planned to attach properties worth around Rs 1,000 crore in the next phase. “We have attached properties and cash worth more than Rs 1,200 crore so far in the Rs 17,000-crore scam. Another attachment may happen in some time,” said an officer. 
 
 
