PUNE: It is an outcome of a year's work by Panchavati Society residents who took a barren piece of land and a waste-filled old stone-quarry to convert them into an abode of native trees of 52 species and a pit that can collect over 1 lakh litres of water in the monsoon.

 Around 5.5 lakh litre of water was collected in the last monsoon in the quarry , which is connected to various channels made in the hill for collecting water, said a resident. The trees, plants and shrubs that the residents planted last year are already 3-4 feet high. The 8,900 sq ft area is home to teak, fig, henna, ber and many other native Indian trees. Unfortunately, all will be destroyed if the proposed tunnel comes through, said residents.
 
 In March last year, Bhanu   saw a video on Miyawaki method of planting trees. “I thought it was interesting and circulated it among the resi dents of Panchavati,“ he said.
 
 This was when  , a chartered accountant and an environment lover, decided to dig up the quarry with the help of   to collect rainwater. “We have been planting trees for the last 20 years and with the help of Ashok Ghorpade, tree officer, Preeti Sinha, Sharad Tumhale, and   all from PMC, we have planted 5,000 trees on 90 acres of land. This dug up soil was then deposited on the barren land to turn it into a bed for future plantations,“ said Gargote. The water table has increased by at least 10 feet due to all these efforts.
 
 The miyawaki method of planting trees involves planting a number of different types of trees close area, which enriches the green cover and reinforces the richness of the land.
 
 Altogether 52 native speci es of flora were planted. While residents adopted many plants, companies also sponsored many . A watchman was kept to water the plants and residents monitored the entire site every day . College students were also roped in to check the growth rate, read the girth and branches of each tree and take a picture every month.
 
 The hard work has paid off and Panchavati now has a land dedicated to native trees and plants. The method is working so well that peepal tree, which was planted only eight months ago, is almost 12-13 ft high. “Residents like Ramesh Rao and   have been planting and watering trees on their own since many years. It is the contribution of all the residents of Panchavati that has made the place so beautiful.The contribution of every person is helping in preserving the last vestiges of a system that gives us oxygen. This should not be destroyed in the name of development,“ said Muley.
 
