PUNE: A woman (30), driven by jealousy and humiliation, kidnapped and murdered her five-year-old   at Kalepadal in Hadapsar on Thursday. 

 She had used a piece of cloth to strangle five-year-old Mauli Khandekar aka Ayush, and hid the body in a barrel filled with water, outside her house. She confessed to the crime after the police arrested her on Friday from her residence in Naiknaware cooperative housing society.
 
 She was arrested under sections 363 (kidnapping minor), 302 (punishment for murder) and 201 (destruction of evidence) of the Indian Penal Code, and has been remanded to police custody till March 30. 
 
  and her husband Shyam live with their two   in K block of the society. Shyam’s elder brother Ram, who has four daughters, lives in the same block while their younger brother Vinod — the victim’s father — stays in the neighbouring J block. Ayush was the only male child in the family. 
 
 Anita Khandekar was allegedly and frequently taunted by her mother-in-law for being unable to conceive a  . Around 9.30am on Thursday, she took the victim — who does not attend school — to her house. Her husband, a tempo driver, was at work while their daughters were at school.
 
 “She used a cloth to strangle the boy to death. She then wrapped his body in a plastic sheet and covered it with a blanket,” Kalpana Barawkar, deputy commissioner of police (Zone IV), told TOI. 
 
 In the meantime, Ayush’s parents had launched a frantic hunt for the boy. “When she heard that the boy’s parents were searching for him, she hid the body in a water drum outside her house,” Barawkar added 
 
 “The victim’s physically challenged father Vinod registered a kidnapping case against unidentified persons around 5.30pm with the Hadapsar police, after efforts to traced Ayush had proved futile,” Barawkar said.
 
 Vinod, who drives a tempo to make a living, is on good terms with his brothers and their families, and so did not suspect his sister-in-law for his son’s disappearance. 
 
 “Vinod told us that he had received a call from an unidentified woman around noon on Thursday, asking him to collect his son from Jejuri. Taking the call seriously, a police team was dispatched to the spot but could find neither the woman nor the child,” Barawkar said. 
 
 “We conducted technical investigations wherein we identified the caller as Anita, traced the call to her residence, and took her into custody,” said Barawkar. 
 
 It was then that Anita confessed to kidnapping and murdering her nephew as she could not conceive a son. 
 
 “We recovered the dead body from the drum around 2am on Friday,” Barawkar said. “Anita’s mother in-law Taydabai Khandekar used to frequently taunt her as she could not conceive a son,” said senior inspector Vishnu Pawar, “Vinod was shocked that his own sister in-law had killed his son. He kept saying that he had never suspected her.”
 
 
