It’s college fest season in the city and several budding talents come to the fore through the many competitions that take place during this period. Besides all the competitions, students across the city look forward to the concerts that feature celebrity singers and DJs. And these events require plenty of hard work and behind-the-scene efforts by students from the organising committees. We take a look at what it takes for these students to organise these much-awaited events.

 
 
 The planning and structuring of these events requires considerable time. Solar Singh, a third year engineering student and coordinator of the IIT, 
 Indore Fest Fluxus, shares, “A minimum of three months preparation time is required. Our fest was to be organised in the month of February for which a core team was formed in October. Later, in November, separate teams with members from the first and second year batches were formed to look into marketing, publicity, etc. Calling a celebrity for the pro-night requires a lot of   planning too.”
 
 
 
 
 Students of the organising committee are of the opinion that 50-60 per cent of the budget needs to be kept aside for organising pro-nights. Revant Sindhu, event coordinator for the IIM fest IRIS, shares, “Besides the artistes’ charges, the cost of building a stage and making arrangements for the audience adds to the budget.” In the case of IET, DAVV’s fest Aakshank, a separate team was formed to coordinate with the managers of different celebrities. Harman Singh, a final year student of  , shares, “We drafted a list of probable   who were fitting our budget and the team started co-ordinating with the managers, checking on availability. A lot of coordination is required for the accommodation of the artistes and their commute.” He also shares, “A lot of hard work goes into fetching sponsors. The students from the marketing team need to chase potential sponsors and woo them to invest in the fest. A lot of visits are required for getting good sponsors. These sponsors need to be finalised at least a month in advance.”
 
 
 
 
 A concrete plan for promoting the fest is important to make a fest a success. Kalash Agrawal, an over-all event coordinator for the fest in IIT, shares, “In a bid to ensure that maximum students from various colleges participate in the events, we go to almost every college that has the potential to produce good participants. At the same time, we try selling passes for the pro-nights.” Aditya Nagrare, fest facilitator from  , shares, “We distribute passes to various cafes and eateries that are popular among youngsters. For every 10 passes sold, we give these cafes a free pass that they can sell or distribute for free to their customers. This ensures a balance in the business and most of our passes our sold this way. Passes are also sold on campus, from a booth.”
 
