ALMORA: Expectations are running high from  , the only woman in the newly-formed   Cabinet. Interestingly, she is also the first woman Cabinet minister from   district. 

 Arya managed to defeat Congress candidate Rajendra Barakoti by just 710 votes on Someshwar seat.
 
 Arya ventured into politics in 2002 by becoming a member of district panchayat committee. She joined Congress in 2010 but switched to   in 2012. However, Arya contested as an independent candidate in 2012 election but was defeated by BJP candidate Ajay Tamta.
 
 In 2014 by-election, she contested the election on a Congress ticket, but again left the party to join BJP during the 2016 trust vote in Uttarakhand assembly.
 
 However, ignoring her past record, residents, especially women population of Someshwar as well as of Almora district want her to work on issues plaguing the district, including lack of doctors and medical facilities, drinking water woes and menaces of monkeys and wild boars.
 
 "As women, we would like Rekha Arya to work on issues that impact our lives. If, at least, Arya can resolve the man-animal conflict, it will save agriculture and our families too. We are entirely dependent on agriculture," said  , gram pradhan of Jurkafun village in Almora district.
 
 Deepa Arya, a resident of Balta village, said: "We want her to create employment opportunities for us. Farming is almost dead. We want jobs so that we can feed our children. We also want her to provide drinking water. We walk 4-5 km in summer to arrange water. This takes toll on our bodies and lives."
 
 "The hospital in Someshwar is without doctors; the pharmacist takes care of patients and refers nearly everyone to Almora for even minor injuries and treatments. We want our MLA to provide doctors in the hospital," said Shankar Verma, a resident of Someshwar.
 
 Responding to the demands, Arya told TOI, "Although, the ministers have not been allotted departments, one of my main priorities would be to work on women empowerment. Being the only female Cabinet minister out of 57 MLAs in the state, I am hopeful I would be able to resolve issues that make impacts on women's lives including their safety, employment and agriculture."
 
