LUCKNOW: Modi hit the campaign trail in UP in top gear. From Mirzapur to Bharaich and Jalaun to Lucknow, through the 23 rallies, his message was the same: trust me, vote for me, I get the job done. Modi went into the campaign lumbered with the liability of demonetisation but turned it into a populist vote winner by emphasising that it was part of his anti-corruption, anti-rich campaign. From Hindu Hriday Samrat of Gujarat to Development Man in 2014, UP 2017 saw Modi re-invent himself as pro-poor welfarist. In   style, Modi was the PM seeking to win a state election on the basis of his own persona, not through state leaders.

 “One party wants to save its family, the other, its party; but only one party wants to save UP,“ he said in Lucknow, “our fight against corruption and black money won't stop.“ “Jo upar the wo neeche aa gaye hain,“ said a Jayapur local. Said a boat man in Varanasi: “We had no problems with notebandi because we had no big notes. Jinke paas bade note the, unko problem hua.“
 
 Reaching directly across to the voter, promising them a war against the rich, UP 2017 evoked Indira Gandhi's bank nationalisation moment in 1969 when putting the rich in their place had become a vote-winner with the poor. Modi was able to stand forth as a champion of the poor. “The suit boot ki sarkar charge did hit us,“ said a BJP member, adding, “We went out of our way to change our image from pro-Ambani and Adani to create a coalition of the poor.“
 
 UP also saw a consolidation of the “sab jaat versus teen jaat“, BJP's Kalyan Singh-style social engineering of 1991reinvented for 2017. This resulted in most backward castes, non-Yadav OBCs and non-Jatav dalits all clustering with BJP against the three castes -Jatavs, Yadavs and Muslims, represented by BSP , SP and Congress, who were pushed to become only subcaste fronts. Shedding its Brahmin-bania image, BJP created a wide social coalition of poor and backwards. It gave 119 seats to non-Yadav OBCs such as Rajbhars, Khushwahas and Mauryas. BJP even struck an alliance with the littleknown Suheldev Bhartiya Samaj Party -a party of Rajbhars -and gave them eight tickets.They also gave 69 tickets to non-Jatav dalits, such as Dhobis and Khatiks. The Ujwala gas scheme, soil card, rural housing and toilet construction schemes led to BJP making inroads among the poor and Modi being projected as the guardian of the garib.
 
 In Maharajganj, he pitched his Harvard-vshard work line when GDP data showed demonsitisation had not taken a toll on growth. “On the one hand, there are those who talk of what people at Harvard say, and on the other is a poor man's son who through his hard work is trying to improve the economy.“ “Modi is in every heart in UP,“ said Dinesh Tiwari, a taxi driver, adding, “He is someone like us.“
 
 Modi's speeches were full of droll black comedy; colourful, often crass, language; and mimicry, theatrically delivered with dramatic pauses. It's a performance that the droning voice of   dully reading out her speeches can hardly match. In Meerut, he spoke of the other parties as “SCAM“; in Bharaich, he countered Akhilesh by yelling that the humble donkey was a source of inspiration; in Fatehpur, he made the shamshan-kabristan speech, showing that at heart he remains a Hindu nationalist, a revelation that touched a chord across traditional UP. A populist lone crusader against corruption and a man of the masses who had risen from humble origins was the Modi identity on offer in 2017: Hindu hriday samrat combined with pro-poor populism harked back to the Indira Gandhi persona of patriotic heroine of the people.
 
