HYDERABAD: When it comes to quality health care, Hyderabad is second only to Delhi, thanks to the rising number of hospitals with certification from the   (NABH). This ensures that hospitals follow a set standard of patient care and management practices to deliver quality service to patients.

 The latest data shows that Hyderabad now has 30 large-scale NABH-certified hospitals. This is more than all other metro cities, except Delhi, which boasts of 50.
 
 Similar to the   (NAAC) that looks into the quality of colleges in the country, the NABH assesses hospitals based on 683 `objective elements' (measurable standards). From how a patient is screened to counselling for family, diet supervision, nursing care, and infection control, there are standard operating procedures for everything in NABH hospitals.
 
 For instance, there are regulations that mandate that all medicines that look alike, sound alike (LASA) are properly marked and stored in separate compartments in the hospital pharmacy to avoid cases of wrong prescriptions.
 
 “It can be taken for granted that patients would get better care in NABH-certified hospitals as documentation is mandatory for every step and must be reported to the board. Non-NABH hospitals are not under any obligation to follow the best practices and are not answerable to them,“ said Dr B Chandrasekhar, NABH consultant in city-based Quality Crest Healthcare Consultancy.
 
 More city hospitals are now in a rush to get NABH accreditation as the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDA) -the insurance regulator -has made it mandatory for all hospitals providing cashless services for allopathic treatment to obtain certification by July 2018. This is why even small-scale specialty hospitals such as   Eye Hospital have rushed to get certified within nine months of starting operation.
 
 “The eye being very sensitive, infections are a dreadful outcome of any surgery.NABH accreditation creates checks and balances, and acts as a confidence building tool to provide quality surgery for patients,“ said N V  , joint managing director of Win Vision, which received the certification in December last week. Accreditation, whether by NABH or the internationally recognized   (JCI), is treasured like a family heirloom by hospitals.The more stringent JCI imposes 1,160 `objective elements' to assess hospitals.So tough are the standards that only 27 hospitals across the country, including Continental Hospitals, Gachibowli, and  , Jubilee Hills, have managed to get JCI certification.
 
 “JCI has elaborate and stringent criteria for improving patient safety and quality of clinical care. Infrastructure, quality of resources, documentation, implementation of clinical protocols, and training of care givers are given utmost importance. Infrastructure is a major impediment in the Indian context as a majority of hospitals do not meet their standards. This is why new-age hospitals are being designed as per JCI standards,“ said Harish Manian, regional chief operating officer of Parkway Pantai, which owns Continental Hospitals.
 
