MUMBAI:   has, for the first time since the   threatened to sever ties with  , spoken of the prospects for a mid-term poll in Maharashtra. “People want polls because they are eager for change,“ the Sena president told the party's mouthpiece, Saamna, in an interview on Sunday.

 BJP, however, poured scorn on Thackeray's warning. “No one wants an assembly election now, not even Sena MLAs. There will be a split in the Sena if Thackeray asks his ministers to quit,“ said a BJP heavyweight on condition of anonymity. “Even if Sena ministers resign, there is no threat to the Fadnavis government. Our Plan B is ready ,“ he said.
 
 Thackeray's interview was aimed at raising party morale ahead of the  , said analysts. A key Sena functionary said Sainiks were keen to see the party put the Fadnavis government, which is the dominant part ner in the coalition, in a spot.Thackeray told Saamna he would be the instrument of change, should there be a midterm poll in the state or at the Centre. He indicated that dissidents in the Union government were in touch with him.
 
 “Many BJP leaders are unhappy (with the Modi regime). They are in a fix...They can neither suffer nor can they talk openly about the goings-on in the party and the government...Quite a few of them keep sending me messages,“ Thackeray said.
 
 Asked if NCP would back Fadnavis in case Sena walks out, Thackeray said should that happen, the Centre would have to decorate Pawar with an honour higher than the Padma Vibhushan. The NCP president was conferred Padma Vibhushan last month.
 
 Thackeray underlined the need for regional parties to seize the initiative in national politics. “People have opted for a regional party wherever an alternative to all-India parties was available...This has happened in West Bengal, Kerala, Bihar, Tamil Nadu and Delhi...If people in these states rejected Congress and BJP , why can't it happen in Maharashtra?“ he asked. Naveen Patnaik severed ties with the BJP long ago. Since then he has twice won state assembly elections in Odisha, Thackeray said, adding, “People back a party which upholds regional pride.“
 
 Thackeray reiterated the view that Sena's decision to align with BJP in Maharashtra was a tactical blunder. “We thought things would improve if we worked in close collaboration...they would do good work at the Centre and we would be their ally, at the Centre and in the state...However, we realised Sena has gained nothing from the alliance.“ But Thackeray also justified Sena's presence in government, saying it allowed his party to oppose “anti-people policies“.
 
