CHENNAI: Planning to buy your dream home and want to check all about the project and the developer? All you have to do is visit http://www.tnrera.in/ that the   Regulatory Authority (TNRERA) has launched.

 All developers are now mandated to register with TNRERA ahead of launching new projects by furnishing various details on the website to help the public access them. Buyers can also file their complaints with the regulatory authority on the website.
 
 “The website has been made operational. Now, developers can register their projects through it,” a Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA) official told TOI. As per the   Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Rules, 2017, a brief about the promoter, including information about his firm, background and track record data such as completed and ongoing projects, besides his experience in the real estate sector in Tamil Nadu should be provided.
 
 While details on litigation of the land should be made available, a link to the developer’s website should also be provided. An authenticated copy of the approval, sanctioned plan, layout plan and specifications of the project received from the competent authorities, parking details and registration granted by the authority concerned must be furnished.
 
 Real estate agents should also register with the regulatory authority for which applications have been uploaded on the site. The portal has provided the various fees for registering layouts, residential and commercial projects, ranging from Rs 5 to Rs 25 per square metre, depending on the buildings. “Every upcoming project with more than eight units should be registered with the TNRERA,” another official said.
 
 A majority of the ongoing projects, whose developers have not applied for the completion certificate, are likely to come under the purview of the act that aims at bringing transparency into the realty sector. Buyers can also register their grievances and mail the filled-in forms with scanned documents to the regulator. 
 
 After the state government notified the rules for the act on June 22, the   started functioning from a section in Thalamuthu-Natarajan Maaligai seat of the CMDA in Egmore. 
 
 The Confederation of  ' Associations of India (CREDAI) Chennai president   said that developers have began the process of uploading the required documents for the registration. “The authority must complete the registration within 30 days (from the time of filing the application) as per rules,” he added.
 
