PUNE: Former Israeli Prime Minister   in his Nobel Peace prize lecture said, “Military cemeteries in every corner of the world are silent testimony to the failure of national leaders to sanctify human life.” The   on   near Fatimanagar stands as proof of the statement.

 The 20-acre cemetery, spread across the east and west banks of a nullah, has expanded over the years. The slightly older eastern area, remnant of one of the bloodiest war in human history World War I, lies somewhat unkempt.
 
 A section of the eastern part is maintained by the   (CWGC), an arm of the Commonwealth of Nations that administers the graves of fallen soldiers from the Commonwealth countries. At the St Sepulchre cemetery, lie 146 such soldiers.
 
 “There are about 2,000 graves in the military cemeteries in Pune the Kirkee War Cemetery and part of the   maintained by the CWGC. Kirkee cemetery houses the graves of soldiers, who died during World War II, and a memorial for soldiers, who died during World War I. The graves of some soldiers, who died during World War I, lie at St Sepulchre,” said MS Bahanwal, who manages the CWGC graves in the city.
 
 According to the CWGC, the soldiers whose graves lie here, are from the British Isles. They died in the Asian theatre during the First World War. They are from a cross-section of the ‘constituent’ countries, regiments, type of service, and ages. Some died aged as young as 22 while others succumbed to their injuries close to retirement at 57. Some were doctors, others were artillerymen. 
 
 The servicemen were from English, Welsh, Scottish and Irish families. Some others were airmen, flying planes in what was the first major air superiority war, barely a few years after the airplane was invented.
 
 Quite a lot of the gravestones imply that the deceased had breathed their last in Pune, possibly succumbing to their injuries, while others died on the battlefield and were interred here.
 
 The setting is austere and so are the surroundings. The fact that only a boundary wall separates the complex from the cacophony that is Solapur Road is almost startling given how quiet the area is. The cleared ground, accessible only through a mud path, is strewn with dry leaves.
 
 Signs of decay are all too evident on the campus. The CWGC has replaced most gravestones with new marble ones. Those that remain show every one of their nearly 100 years of existence. The crosses are broken, the letters on the dust-covered gravestones are fading to the point of becoming illegible. And, if the gardener’s words are anything to go by, they barely have any visitors.
 
 “Who knows anything about this cemetery? Very few people actually ever come to see these graves, even though they are part of our history,” said one of the caretakers of the cemetery.
 
