NAGPUR: The audience listened with rapt attention as Bandhu Dhotre, a  , shared a story of his encounter with a leopard. “All of a sudden the leopard took the help of a pillar and leapt into the air. It breached the roof and came face-to-face with me,” said Dhotre, referring to an incident in 2014, when a stray leopard caused panic in  . 

 Dhotre was narrating the story at the 34th episode of Alag Raah, an initiative by Prayas — Sevankur, an Amravati-based NGO to highlight extraordinary contributions made by ordinary citizens.
 
 Apart from his rendezvous with leopard, Dhotre has rescued tigers, wild boars, bison, giant crocodiles, snakes and pythons too. The 36-year-old wildlife crusader started out as a ‘Sarpa-mitra,’ snake’s friend. “I used to rescue snakes from people’s homes for free. They would save my name as ‘snake man’ in their phone,” he joked. 
 
 Talking of his childhood, Dhotre said that his parents were usually away at work, leaving him to his instincts. “Chandrapur is surrounded by forests. Such an environment urges one to dare. Today, we restrict our children from straying anywhere for the fear of their safety,” he said. 
 
 In 2012, Dhotre launched an indefinite fast to push the state government towards tiger conservation activities. The government conceded to most of his demands raised to protect tigers in Maharashtra and Chandrapur in particular.
 
 Dhotre has also greatly contributed to social causes. “There is a railway crossing in Chandrapur which used to remain open for only about 15 minutes and remain closed for hours together. In 2007, 34 deliveries took place at the railway gate, and in 2008, 11 people died of heart attacks as they couldn’t pass the closed gate.” Dhotre’s protest received a huge response from people of the district. “At least, 3,000 people had assembled and the concerned authorities promised to construct an overbridge,” he recalls. 
 
 He is also remembered for his 14-day hunger strike in 2009 against proposed coal mines by Adani group in Lohara.
 
 He is now the founder of NGO Eco-Pro, and run eco-clubs in 25 schools. Green Ganesh and rainwater harvesting are some activities among the host of initiatives taken up by his NGO.
 
