MADURAI: A second year   of  , Anna Nagar, sustained a severe   at the college the cause of which has become a matter of dispute between the college management and her family. 

 The incident took place on Friday when the girl, identified as N Sudha, 19, daughter of Nakkiran from Tirunagar, sustained injuries when she went to use the toilet inside the campus along with her friend. According to her family members, a stone fell on her from the third floor of the building damaging her skull. Though doctors at the private hospital where she was admitted to claimed there was no threat to her life going by her present condition, they said the chances of bringing the girl to normal condition were slim. 
 
 "The college did not even come forward to rush the girl to a hospital. It were the students who with the help of auto drivers took her to the hospital. The girls got agitated since the college showed resistance in footing her hospital bill. They budged only after the protest," said a student. In fact, the issue came to light only on Tuesday morning when a large number of students from the college staged a day-long protest against the college's alleged indifferent attitude towards the injured girl. 
 
 Anna Nagar police which is conducting investigations, was also yet to register a case. Assistant commissioner of police, Anna Nagar range, S Shanmugam said that the college administration had an entirely different version to offer. They claimed that the girl sustained injuries when she tried to climb the compound wall to pluck some amla. "We are not buying it completely. I have asked for doctors' response as to whether such a critical injury is possible if she had fallen from the compound wall. A case will be registered after investigation," he said.
 
 R Pandiammal, a VCK leader from Madurai who led the protest on Tuesday, said that the management showed callous disregard for the student's health. The girl's condition was very critical and there were very little chances of reviving her. Only after the protest, the college administration agreed to pay the treatment expenses of the girl. They have also agreed to provide 8 lakh to the girl's parents, she said.
 
