Coimbatore: With just a week to go to abide by a high court order directing the district collector and the Coimbatore Corporation to remove 203 encroachments from a 70-feet link road in  , the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board is yet to allot them homes. Members of the residential welfare association who had filed the case in 2011 said that they would soon file a contempt petition if the officials did not take action.

 As per the records, the 1km stretch is part of a 70-feet link road that was designated as a cart road. The encroachment in the area began in 1980 and since then nearly 203 houses have been constructed. Slowly, their kin have also constructed homes in the same area increasing the number. 
 
 The area is now buzzing with schools, layouts, shops and workshops. With one of the widest roads being encroached, residents said that it was difficult for emergency services to enter the area. “Even if someone requires an ambulance or a fire engine, it will be extremely difficult for us as none of these services can enter as all the roads leading to this area are narrow and not more than 10-foot wide. Moreover, no one has the right to encroach upon roads that are public property,” said V Damodar, president of the K K Pudur Welfare Association.
 
 Corporation commissioner K Vijayakarthikeyan when contacted said that they had completed the process of getting bio-metric and finger prints of beneficiaries. The list has been handed over to the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board (TNSCB) officials. He added that the TNSCB had to allot them homes. “Only after the homes were allotted, can the eviction process begin," he said. 
 
 The superintendent engineer of TNSCB, Rajashekar told TOI that the list was handed over to them only on July 7. “The list was verified and sent to the senior officials of the department. As per the court order, the corporation has to evict the families. We have the housing unit in Keeranatham ready and once the eviction date is finalized, homes will be handed over to the beneficiaries,” he said.Treasurer of the Jeeva Nagar Residential Welfare Association R Rajamani said that they would appeal against the high court order in the Supreme Court. “This road was never in use. The residential welfare associations and the school who petitioned the court on our eviction came several years after we settled here. Moreover, Indira Nagar residents who had also encroached were allotted patta. Former collector had also ordered the same for us but the court order is against us,” she said. TNSCB held a meeting recently with the encroachers and half of them had agreed for resettlement. 
 
 
