LUCKNOW/AYODHYA: This  , ‘Treta Yug’ will mark its return to  , apparently with scenes of Lord Ram’s return to the temple town after his 14-year-exile being replayed in a glittering ceremony being planned by the UP government. Plans are also afoot to light up the temple town with thousands of diyas (lamps).

 Treta is the second out of the four yugas, or ages of mankind, according to Hindu belief, which follows Satya Yuga, and is followed by the Dvapara Yuga and Kali Yuga. Treta means ‘collection of three’ and there were three avatars of Vishnu in this age: Vamana, Parashurama and Rama.
 
 Preparations are underway to mark Diwali with grand celebrations which will see governor   welcome artistes playing the roles of Lord Ram, Lakshman and Sita at  , the spot where people of Ayodhya had greeted them upon their return according to the epic “Ramayana”.
 
 From Nandigram, a grand procession will leave for Ayodhya where chief minister Yogi Aditya Nath will receive it. The grand ceremony of coronation would be held at Ram Katha Park where Yogi will place the crown on the head of Lord Ram.
 
 As per reports, Lord Ram is likely to be ferried from Nandigram to Ayodhya in a helicopter, while two more choppers will be arranged to shower flower petals. The characters of Ram, Lakshman and Sita would be played by local performers which would be arranged by department of culture and tourism. A grand show of fire crackers is proposed on Saryu banks after Saryu Aarti by Yogi. However, with increasing stress on celebrating smokeless and noiseless Diwali, the department is mulling to replace it with a laser show.
 
 Managing director of Uttar Pradesh Tourism Department Akhand Pratap Singh on Friday visited Ayodhya and briefed local officials about the expected programme. Talking to TOI, Faizabad commissioner Manoj Mishra said, “We have not received the programmes of chief minister or Governor but the local administration is making preparations for the expected programme.” The tourism department is planning to use the celebrations to showcase the tourism potential of Ayodhya and if all goes well the glittering Diwali celebration could become an annual affair and attract tourists to the temple town. Principal secretary, tourism and information, Awneesh Awasthi said, “Through cultural activities, the government wants to develop Ayodhya as main tourist attraction.”
 
 
