AJMER: Hundreds of   have started pouring in   to attend the Kapda fad (clothes tearing)   which is exclusively for these tourists.  ,  , make arrangement for foreign tourists willing to participate in this auspicious celebration and   take charge of security arrangements so that no local person can either participate or hinder the event.

 For last five years,   has become a major attraction for foreign tourists, especially those from Israel and other European countries. About 2,000 tourists have already reached Pushkar for the event which coincides with the same day when Holi is celebrated. Last year about 4,000 tourists participated in this event.
 
 The festival for foreign tourists was started by a group of priests in Pushkar for helping tourists in understanding the concept of festival of colors in India. “The festival starts near Varah Ghat of Pushkar lake and local people make arrangement for music and security,” said Rakesh Bhatt, a local priest. He said foreign tourists start playing with colors and later with water and dance to Indian music. Later, they start tearing each other’s clothes. 
 
 “Only foreign tourists are allowed to participate in this festival and not a single local or domestic tourist is allowed,” said another priest.
 
 “Foreign tourists are so crazy for this festival that they call up and ask us about the dates of Holi in advance so that they can plan their trip,” said a hotel owner.
 
 Last year, officer of the rank of an executive magistrate was deputed by district administration for safety and security of these tourists, “There are people from Ajmer and different parts of Rajasthan who come to Pushkar on the occasion of Holi to participate in such occasion, but we deny them as we want no nuisance with tourists,” said another local tourist.
 
 This time too, local groups have sought security from police. “The occasion is for foreign tourists and they are fascinated by such festival that every year their numbers are increasing and they bring more friends with them,” said Ghanshyam Parashar.
 
 Meanwhile, IB department is vigilant on such occasions to keep a control on use of drugs or liquor.
 
 
