Given how unforgiving summer in Chennai can be, it is customary for most of our stars to leave for cooler climes, mostly abroad, during this season. While some of our stars are already in the middle of their vacation, a few will be leaving soon to exotic locations, both for work and some me-time. Here’s where you can catch these celebs this summer:

 
 For Shriya, who is just back from a vacation in Maldives, the idiom ‘swimming with the sharks’ holds a whole new meaning. The AAA actor, who is quite a water baby, seems to have enjoyed her time in the land of sun and sea. Talking about her many adventures at sea, Shriya says, “I lived on a boat and had the most beautiful time ever. I saw the eagle ray, reef sharks, manta ray and also swam alongside whale sharks. I went for night dives as well! I just didn’t want to come back.”
 
 Vijay
 Vijay will be spending this entire month in Europe. However, this isn’t going to be a vacation for the actor. For, Ilayathalapathy will be shooting till the end of May in various locations in Europe for Vijay 61, which is being directed by Atlee.
 
 
 Trisha has often spoken about her love for the US, and currently, the actress is taking her vacation in the city which she considers her home away from home — New York. From posing at Times Square to checking out the Broadway musical Miss Saigon and reuniting with her school friends from Church Park, the actress is living it up this season in America. 
 
 
 Every summer, Suriya and Jyotika go on a vacation abroad with their kids and this year is going to be no different. The star couple is surprising Diya and Dev by taking them to Europe. “They are reading the Harry Potter books now, so we thought we should take them there and show them places related to the books there,” reveals Jyotika. The family set out on this vacation yesterday.
 
 Taapsee
 After a hectic promotional tour for Naam Shabana, Taapsee had left on an all-girls trip to the scenic island of Koh Samui, Thailand, in April. Going by the pics that the actress posted on her social media page, Taapsee seems to have had great fun on this trip — acting goofy with friends, celebrating her sister Shagun Pannu’s birthday on the beach and even taking up scuba diving. From Thailand, the actress also flew to London to check out the sights.
 
 Rakul Preet
 Rakul, who is shooting back-to back for four films, has her hands full right now, but that doesn’t stop her from dreaming of a nice long summer vacation! “The last time I took a break was in 2016 that too for just three days. So, this summer, I want to take a proper break — like a nice 15-day-long vacation and I am working towards making that happen soon,” says Rakul. So what’s on her wish list? “Himalayas! I have heard some great things about a spa retreat in the mountains and I’ve been hoping to go there to rejuvenate, spend time in the midst of nature, detox, trek and be in absolute serenity.”
 
 Arun Vijay
 Arun Vijay has been holidaying in South Africa with his family for the past two weeks. Talking to us from SA, he says, “It is an adventure holiday for us. My son loves animals and we wanted to give him an experience of encountering animals up close. He’s very excited. We are trying some new stuff, like paragliding above the forest and spotting animals. The sight of the rhinos and the lions thrilled us. This is a much-needed break for me after Kuttram 23.” 
 
 Sundeep Kishan
 Come summer, and Sundeep Kishan always has Europe on his mind. “This time, I’ll be backpacking in Germany, Spain and other parts of Europe. I don’t really plan holidays and usually like to keep them spontaneous. The idea is to land in Frankfurt (Germany), and take it from there,” says Sundeep, adding, “What I am thrilled about this time is exploring Europe by train. I’ve heard that it’s fun and I am really looking forward to it. I usually manage to just about seven days off, but I plan to make the most of it.”
 
 
 Raai Laxmi has been holidaying in the US for the past few days. After taking in the sights in New York, the actress has been raising the temperature here for her fans by posting pics of her chilling out at the beaches of Miami. Looks like this babe knows how to have fun!
 
 
 Andrea seems to be combining work with pleasure in the US, where she is currently touring as part of Yuvan Shankar Raja’s troupe. The actress had visited Las Vegas during this visit, and was mightily impressed by one of the city’s iconic landmarks — Caesars Palace. 
 
