HYDERABAD: If   government has its way , public transport in the form of   may end up as the primary mode of commuting in   in years to come. This is because even as the first phase of Metro rail is slated to become operational in coming months, the TRS government has already begun working on  , through which it aims to add another 102km track to provide seamless transport from east to west and north to south of city.

 Official sources said the state government is contemplating starting work on Metro Phase II from next year, by which time except for a 6km stretch between   (MGBS) and Falaknuma, the entire 72km three-corridor Phase I is expected to be operational.For Phase II, Hyderabad Metro Rail reportedly asked   (DMRC) to prepare detailed project reports for identified corridors.
 
 The 102km being proposed under Phase II would cover six corridors that have been tentatively identified based on recommendations of Comprehensive Transportation Study (CTS) carried out by LEA Associates for Hyderabad Metropolitan Region three years ago. The CTS report suggested that the Hyderabad metropolitan region requires 360km of Metro linkage by 2041, including 72 km which has already been taken up by the government.
 
 As per the proposal, 102km Phase II corridors might be from Miyapur to Patancheru (13 km), Nagole-LB NagarChandrayangutta (13 km), LB Nagar-Hayatnagar (10 km), Miyapur to Gachibowli-Lakdikapul (21 km), BHEL-Gachibowli-Lakdikapul (21 km) and Tank Bund to ECIL via Tarnaka (15 km).
 
 “After the 72-km Phase I of Metro rail works began, state government was flooded with requests for extension of Metro rail to their areas. For instance, people, including residential welfare associations, have sent representations for extension of Metro rail corridor-I up to Pantancheru. Similarly , there are requests for extension of corridor III to ECIL Crossroads and connecting Mehdipatnam by laying new tracks,“ a senior state government official said.
 
 While most corridors could be an extension of existing Metro rail routes, Tank Bund to ECIL via Tarnaka corridor would be totally new. The corridor is being considered as it is one of the busiest stretch in the city .However, developing this corridor is also a difficult task as there could be massive land acquisition problems, officials said.
 
 Municipal administration minister KT Rama Rao indicated a couple of days ago the state govenment was serious about developing Phase II as quickly as possible. A team of officials, including special advisor and former chief secretary Rajiv Sharma, municipal administration department secretary Navin Mittal, HMR managing director NVS Reddy and other officials visited Tokyo and held discussions with Japan Inter national Cooperation Agency (JICA) for aid. “For the 102km Phase II, the government will require about `30,000 crore . Though the Centre has asked all the states to take up Metro projects in PPP) mode, it is unlikely we can get an investor for the Phase II project.TRS government is also exploring other avenues,“ a senior official told STOI.
 
 The government hopes once the financial module is ready , there would not be any problem. When contacted, municipal administration secretary Navin Mittal said: “Currently , planning of corridors and devising the module are in discussion stage.“
 
