JAIPUR: BJP’s own MLAs on Friday pulled no punches against own government over sensitive and controversial amendments in Rajasthan Rent Control Act. 

 During the debate on the proposed amendments, BJP MLA from Kota   put the government on dock. He alleged that amendments will bring lot of discrepancies and piece of draft needs a serious relook. 
 
 Discussing the pros and cons of the act, Gunjal also made a veiled attack on the bureaucracy for drafting lopsided amendments. In a veiled act on them he said that bureaucrats are not Chandragupt and public representatives have more understanding of ground realities than them. 
 
 “Experience of our MLA Bacchu Singh from Bayan is far more as he meets thousands of people every day though he can’t read his oath properly. If we discuss legislations drafted by them then we will certainly be subjected to harassment,” said Gunjal. 
 
 In a cautionary remark, MLA from Kota said, “With our conduct, we are inviting the interference of judiciary in the business of legislature. He pointed that provisions of the draft are such that it will apply only on 25% of tenants while leave nearly 75% of them out of its preview. 
 
 Another MLA Jogaram Patel too raised objections on the provisions of the act. He said that proposals are in contradiction as appeal against the decisions of the proposed authority in the act will be made in fron of same rank officer in the judicial side. 
 
  from Lunkaransar warned the ruling party that this act will become a talking point in coming   elections and urged the concerned minister to roll back certain provisions from the act.
 
 Government was also ensnared by the MLAs on Rajasthan Homeopathy Medical (amendment) act. During the debate, opposition alleged that not much effort has been made in the act to enhance the reach of homeopathy in the state. Congress MLA, Govind Singh Dotasra said that it would have been a good step if government had tabled bill for private university in the stream or set up any college.
 
 
