Jaipur:   conservation in the state gets a shot in the arm with seven more sites across being added to the list of important bird areas. With that, there is hope for conservation of ‘birds of prey’ as Jorbeer — a hub for several species of vultures both migratory and threatened in Bikaner ignored so far — too gets listed as Important Bird and Biodiversity Area (IBA) site. 

 On the basis of recommendations of Dr Himmat Singh, an ecologist and state coordinator for Indian Bird Conservation Network (IBCN), seven more sites were added to the existing list of 24, taking the number to a total of 31. After the report of an extensive survey was submitted to the Indian Bird Conservation Network, Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS), seven sites, out of nine recommended, were approved by BNHS based on specific criteria. 
 
 “Rajasthan is ecologically diversified, with a wide variety of flora and fauna found in different ecological zones. A wide variety of species were recorded form diversified ecological zones of extreme arid western Thar desert to Mesic environment of southern and south-eastern region of the state. But besides these, there are several sites which have the potential to be on IBA list. Our survey on the basis of reports on sighting of birds suggested the sites that require conservation attention. Besides, these are 24 IBA sites,” said Himmat.
 
 An Important Bird and Biodiversity Area (IBA) is an area identified using an internationally agreed set of criteria as being globally important for the conservation of bird population. The program was developed and sites are identified by Bird Life International.
 
 “IBA recognition will enhance the conservation attention along with projects like Jorbeer for single species raptor development for conservation. Jorbeer is the largest vulture site in Asia and falls on the migratory route of raptors from Eurasia and Mongolia,” said Dr Daulal Bohra from Save Vulture Community, Bikaner. 
 
 The Jorbeer region would now come under conservation is spread over an area of 20-26 kms and is one of the important winter grounds for local and migratory species in India. Seven species have been observed in Jorbeer, Bikaner. The seven species of vultures are Long billed vulture (Gyps indicus), White Back vulture (Gyps bengalensis), Eurasian Griffon vulture (Gyps fulvus), Himalayan Griffon vultures (Gyps himalayensis), King vulture (Sarcogyps calvus), Cinereous vulture (Aegypius monachus) and Egyptian vulture (Neophron percnopterus). All these species have been observed as winter migratory. Some of the Egyptians Vultures are resident vultures of this area.
 
 The sites are: 
 
 Badopal, Hanumangarh 
 
 Jawai Leopard Conservation Reserve
 
 Jawahar Sagar Sanctuary in Kota, Chittorgarh
 
 Jorbeer in Bikaner
 
 Kharda Dam in Pali
 
 Menar in Udaipur 
 
 Sardar Samand in Pali
 
 
