Grinning over a bowl full of hot soup, homemaker Ruchi Jain declares, “I love my husband and his name is Kamal (lotus) so there is no choice for me but to put my vote on it.“ Laughter flowed from the length and breadth of the table full of `kitty' ladies in their red themed kitty party at a banquet hall in Indiranagar.

 “But I will vote for the one who shows development and has a liberal outlook,“ Jain adds while discussing UP elections, a topic brought up close to never in the kitty party that has had members meeting once every month for five years. “Abki baar kamal ka phool, baqi saare fool (it's going to be the lotus, nothing else this time),“ chips in Vineeta and a laughter riot followed over 'chilli potatos' with women gushing over unanimous love for the Modi bandwagon. “If they (BJP) make   the CM face, they will win easily,“ says Abha Singh, suggesting a check-mate to her kitty friends.
 
 Standing in the centre in a red saree, Shikha calls out numbers to be struck off the `housie' card in each member's hand. A loud voice says, “I like Akhilesh, he has worked for the state but with Rahul in tow, his image is spoilt,“ says an other member.
 
 With immediate rebuttal from a mouth full of haryali kebabs, Shashi Singh says, “But he was more active in the last two years.For the first three years, no big change was visible.“
 
 The topic has now picked up and Alka Shah says, “The family feud has hit the   . The alliance with Congress too is not looking very useful.“
 
 For these women, BSP is not even a contender in these elec tions. “I support BJP . Modiji's personality is so attractive.
 
 He speaks from the heart and his development model of   is what our state needs.His work for farmers is outstanding,“ says Savita Arora.
 
 “But don't you think sometimes his speeches become too dramatic and he loses the point? Todha OTT (over the top) ho jata hai. I think he should remain more serious,“ says Ruchi with a palm thrust under her chin.
 
 In an innocuous motion, it is time for another game. A bowl full of safety pins and rubber bands is passed around the table. They have to be tied together to form a chain. “I think SP had some chance without aligning with the Congress. Even my 10-year-old son asked me why Akhilesh Bhaiya has joined hands with  ,“ smirked Mamta Samant, still attempting to figure out the chain game.
 
