KOLKATA: Slow but steady wins the race.   have taken a liking to this adage in this  . They brightened up their chances of a play-off berth by beating   by four wickets with four balls to spare at the Eden Gardens on Wednesday.

 The win saw them climb up the ladder and be at par with their rivals on the points table with 14 points from 11 matches. Kolkata, however, stayed in the race, needing one win from their remaining three matches.
 
 Pune boy   was the showstopper under lights. He continued his good show in the league by taking the attack to the rival camp after Kolkata put up 155 for eight on being put into bat by Pune skipper  .
 
 The 26-year-old, who did not make the West zonal team for the Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 tournament this season, has turned a new leaf in IPL. He began by hitting pacer Nathan Coulter Nile for three fours and one six in the third over and followed it up with a six and four in  's next over. The youngster showed plenty of character by continuing in the same vein in spite of losing seasoned partners Ajinkya Rahana and Smith early in quick succession. Tripathi sealed the match in Pune's favour by helping the side reach 74 for two in the powerplay (6 overs). He ultimately fell for 93 which came off 52 balls, including nine fours and seven sixes.
 
 Earlier, a late onslaught by   (30 off 16 balls, 2x4, 2x6) ­ after   (37 off 32 balls, 4x4, 1x6) and Colin de Grandhomme (36 off 19 balls, 3x4, 2x6) had steadied the ship ­ helped Kolkata put up a fighting score.
 
 Kolkata suffered their first jolt even before the first ball was bowled when in-form batsman   was ruled out due to a niggle.
 
 The wicketkeeper-batsman was missed after Jaydev Unadkat bowled the first wicket-maiden of this edition, sending back Sunil Narine off the sixth ball. Sheldon Jackson, who was promoted up the order, also didn't last long, forcing skipper   to open up early. He hit Ben Strokes for consecutive fours and followed it up with a four and six off Sundar, but fell in the same over, caught at deep midwicket by Rahane in trying to clear the boundary.
 
 Imran Tahir then trapped Yusuf Pathan leg before with the first ball after the drinks break. At 55 for 4 after 9.1 overs, Pandey and Grandhomme began the repair job taking calculated risks and keeping the scoreboard moving by finding the boundary at regular intervals.
 
