NEW DELHI: The government is not too enthused about J&K governor N N Vohra's idea -aired during his meeting with home minister   here on Tuesday -that a political dialogue be initiated with all stakeholders including separatists, with top home ministry officials pointing out how its outreach to separatist leaders had got the cold-shoulder only last year.

 An officer recalled that when Union home minister Rajnath Singh had camped in Srinagar for two days in July 2017, throwing an open invitation to all interested parties to approach him with their grievances, the   leaders chose to stay away. Besides, an “independent“ initiative by some key members of an all party delegation that visited J&K in September 2016 to go up to separatists' houses and invite them to join talks, was snubbed. While top Hurriyat leaders including hardliner Syed Ali Shah Geelani and Abdul Gani Bhat refused to even meet members of the delegation, others like Mirwaiz   and   met some MPs briefly but refused to hold any talks with them.
 
 The standoffish behaviour of the separatists had led a disappointed Rajnath Singh to slam them for acting against “Kashmiriyat, insaniyat and jamhooriyat“. Incidentally , though the MPs who reached out to separatists had acted on their own, sources say it was very much with the blessings of the government.
 
 “There are no fresh feelers from separatists that they are will ing to engage in a peace dialogue with the government. In any case, the Centre only recently told the   that it will not hold talks with the J&K separatists. We are firm on this stand. Also, the dominant view in the central intelligence set-up is that there is little to gain by holding a peace dialogue with separatists since the lever of protests and violence in the valley is not in their hands but with forces who incite locals from across the border,“ said a top intelligence officer.
 
 A functionary said the Modi government is in no mood to initiate a dialogue with separatists and would rather focus on reaching out to the youth through development. “Nothing will convince the J&K youths of intentions of the government to ensure their welfare, than better economic opportunities,“ he noted.
 
