 scheduled to take place from 1-5th February 2017 at the  , Mumbai, is once again gearing to redefine fashion with ‘inclusivity’ as a key strategic direction for the event going forward.

 Breaking stereotypes, the forthcoming season of Lakmé Fashion Week - Summer Resort 2017 focuses on “Inclusivity in Fashion” through its shows, designers, and models.
 From the first ever plus size show with a retail brand last season, Lakmé Fashion Week is taking the conversation on inclusivity further with a #TagFree show this season. The #TagFree Show will be curated by Kshitij Kankaria, showing some of India’s coolest designers such as bodice, Dhruv Kapoor, Miuniku, RPS, Raw Mango, Sanchita and Suket Dhir. The show will bring forth women from all walks of life who are labelled and stereotyped by society.
 
 This season will bring together a diverse model pool. Transgender model Anjali Lama (from Nepal) was chosen as one of the winners of the model auditions to walk for the season. The model talent this season will also have a gender-neutral model- Petr Nitka from Czech Republic who has walked numerous international runways. Janvi Deori from the North East who was one of the winners of the model auditions in North east last season and Varsha Thapa the Nepalese model will continue to be a part of the model pool this season.
 
 The second day of Lakmé Fashion Week Summer/Resort 2017 will be dedicated to conversations and experiences around sustainable fashion in India. Among these there will stand out a show that has sustainable fashion and inclusivity crafted in the story, one which has a strong and powerful message. Lakmé Fashion Week has collaborated with Kranti – an NGO that empowers girls from Mumbai’s red light areas to be agents of social change (founded by Ms. Robin Chaurasiya, who has worked with US Air Force) and Mandeep Nagi of Shades of India- one of India’s leading textile labels to present a unique presentation on 2nd February 2017 at LFW. The vision of this collaboration is to have inclusivity, diversity, gender equality and our handloom/textiles coming together, to create a powerful narrative.
 
  Lakmé Fashion Week Summer/Resort 2017 aims to showcase the work of grass-root level artisans of Kutch and make them a part of the designer talent at the fashion week in a pathbreaking ‘Artisans of Kutch’ show by IMG Reliance. This endeavor highlights inclusivity through designers. 7 artisans of Kutch under Somaiya Kala Vidya and 2 independent award winning master craftsmen will present their striking and innovative textile stories through their collection as designers, breaking the industry norm of craft designed by professional designers and executed by craft technicians. The show will have a special collection from Shrujan, one of the most prominent craft based NGO’s operating in Kutch in India.
 
 Another big highlight this season is the Dharavi project. Godrej India Culture Lab is collaborating with SNEHA, an NGO that has done extensive work in Dharavi for ‘Fashion Funda – A Dharavi design dialogue’ at Lakmé Fashion Week. The event will explore the possibilities of design innovation in Dharavi, a hub for artisans who have serviced the fashion industry for decades. Mohammad Ismail Ansari, an embroidery artisan from Dharavi has joined hands with fashion designer Jay Ramrakhiani to create an exquisite ensemble that will be showcased at the event.
 Ansari and Ramrakhiani will then join Dr. Nayreen Daruwala, head of SNEHA and Kruti Saraiya from the Dharavi Design Museum for a panel discussion. Parmesh Shahani, head, Godrej India Culture Lab will serve as a moderator.
 
  Speaking on the strategy,  , Head- Fashion, IMG Reliance Ltd said, “With the aim of evolving mindsets and creating a more inclusive conversation around fashion, we have opened our runway to diverse and unconventional models and are curating some path-breaking shows that will further highlight our commitment to continue the conversation on inclusivity which we started last season. As a leading voice in Fashion, IMG Reliance hopes to continuously drive the industry into conversations around inclusivity which we feel will only enhance the business of fashion in the years to come.”
 
   , Head of Innovations, Lakmé, said, “Lakmé Fashion Week is proud to celebrate the diverse definition of beauty that our country embodies. We truly believe that beauty is about being confident and unique. This is also a reflection of what Lakmé, as a brand, stands for. Our products are designed to complement diverse skin tones and personal styles.”
  
  
 
 
