CHANDIGARH: In the movie `Dangal', we saw how Mahavir Phogat -the inspiration behind Aamir Khan's character in the film -guided his daughter Geeta to a gold medal at the 2010  .
 
 Not satisfied with Indian wrestling team's performance at the 2016 Rio Olympics, the legendary coach has now set his sights on the 2020 Tokyo Olympics. Phogat has promised four medals for the country in the 2020 Games, if he is provided facilities and infrastructure from the state or central government.
 
 “I guarantee four medals for the country at the 2020 Tokyo Olympics, if proper facilities and infrastructure is provided,“ Phogat said.
 
 “And if I fail to do so (win In dia medals at the 2020 Olympics) then I will return all the expenses incurred by the government,“ he added.
 
 India won a bronze -through Sushil Kumar -in wrestling in the 2008 Beijing Olympics and then followed it up with a silver (Sushil) and bronze ( ) at the 2012 London Olympics. Expectations were high from the wrestling contingent that went to Rio, but only   returned with a medal (a bronze). Like it is shown in the movie `Dangal' -where the protagonist, played by Aamir, is not in agreement with the national coach -Phogat feels inefficient coaching was the reason behind India's dip in medal tally in wrestling. Phogat runs a small wrestling establish ment at his home in Balali village in Haryana's Bhiwani district. Here, he trains his daughters and other aspiring wrestlers from the village and other nearby places.
 
 However, lack of proper infrastructure is proving to be a big stumbling block for the Dronacharya awardee.
 
 “The practice mat that we have has been borrowed on rent, while the small gym and the practice hall has been developed with my own money . But this facility doesn't match up to international standards,“ Phogat lamented.
 
 “The movie (Dangal) is doing really well and that's good. It's good for the filmmakers. But my dream of running a wrestling academy, where I can train aspir ing and amateur wrestlers into finished products, is still unfulfilled. There have been promises made from various quarters, but they have mostly been empty ,“ he added.
 
 Mahavir Phogat's daughters -better known as the Phogat Sisters -have brought India laurels at the international level.While Geeta has been the spearhead of Indian women's wrestling for several years, her sister Babita and cousin sister Vinesh have taken the legacy of Phogat Sisters to greater heights.
 
 Two more from the Phogat stable are ready to take the world by storm. Geeta and Babita's younger sisters -Ritu and Sangeeta -have also started winning medals for the country at the junior level internationally . Therefore, Mahavir Phogat's target for the Tokyo Olympics doesn't seem far-fetched.
 
