NEW DELHI: After Sri Lanka, Myanmar, India's key neighbour in the East and gateway to Southeast Asia might be heading towards a debt crisis following China's move forcing Myanmar to hand over majority stakes in a deep sea strategic port in   to Beijing ahead of May 14-15  .
 
  China is expected to take controlling stakes, as high as 85 per cent, in Chinese funded projects in Myanmar, even if the initial agreement for some of them was on a 50/50 basis, claimedpersons familiarwith recentdevelopments inMyanmar
  
  China hasdemanded ra 70-85 per cent stake in a strategic deep sea strategic on the Bay of Bengal, Kyauk Pyu. The $7.3 billion project is fundedby China andMyanmar whose economy is yet to gather steammightfinditdifficult to repayloan.
  
  Any financial and econimic instability in Myanmar will impact India that not only   over 1600 km boundary but has huge stakes including connectivity projects thatconnectsNortheast with SoutheastAsia.Currently India isbuildingtrilateral high way viaMyanmar to Thailand thatcouldfurther join roadlink to Vietnam.Besides India has built Sitwee portthat willconnect Mizoramwith Northeastvia multi modaltransport.
  
  India also has hugesecurity stakes in Myanmar to counter insurgency in Northeast and BIMSTEC hasbrought two countries closer across sectors including security, connectivity and trade. While BIMSCTEC Motor Vehicles Agreement is in the pipeline, NSAs of the seven member states of BIMSTEC are trying to identify common security challenges in the region.
  
  
  The deep sea port fits in the Chinese mega 'One Belt One Road' initiative under which it is pumping huge sums of money in Indiasperiphery rat much higher interest rates. If the international line of credit by different organizations or countries for soft loans ranges from 0.1 per cent to 3 per cent, the Chinese lenders charge anything above 6 per cent. In 2015, Japan sanctioned a loan amount of $50 billion with interest rate of 0.1 per cent and a repayment period of 50 years for India's Mumbai-Ahmedabad bullet train corridor.Interest rates for Indian and Japanese LoC areamonglowest inthe world.
  
  In Myanmar, Chinas Myitsone dam project isfacing hugeobstacles. The $3.6 billion dam project was financed by China. After being in making for years, the project was suspended in September 2011. The ethnic Burman majority of Myanmar is against any dam on the Irrawaddy River as it traces its roots of civilization there.
  
  The project wasinitially gsold saying the electricity it would produce, 90 per cent of it would be sold to China while 10 per cent was to be given free to Myanmar. Under pressure, China later said Myanmar was the primary market and rest was to be exported. Only 33 per cent of the country's population has an electricity connection. If Myanmar finally cancels this project, it would have to return China $800 million that would hit it badly andgovernment there may giveconcessions to China on theport,indicated expertsspeaking fromMyanmar.
  
  Yet another large scale project in Myanmar that is on the radar of China is Kyaukphyu Special Economic Zone in one of its poorest regions, Rakhine. China has also taken a controlling stake in another industrial park. China even owned 80 per cent of Myitsone dam project with Myanmar's share just at 15 per cent.
  
  
 
  
 
  
