Gurgaon: The state government has decided not to challenge the Punjab and   high court order which accorded oustees of the Southern Peripheral Road (SPR) project all the benefits of Final Terms of Settlement (FTS) of May 2014, in the hope this will allow for an early completion of the project without further litigation. 

 “Challenging the high court order in the Supreme Court would have further delayed the project. So the government decided to abide by the order and to give FTS benefits to all oustees of SPR,” said a senior Huda official.
 
 The 16km-long SPR originates from   near Ghata and meets NH-8 near Kherki Dhaula, via Sohna road. “The project is almost complete, except for a 200m stretch at Rambir Ki Dhani, which will now be completed soon,” he said, adding that in place of the proposed 90m road, Huda had already built a 16m-wide road on the incomplete stretch to make the road operational.
 
 On August 16, 2016, Huda had allotted alternative plots in Sector 49 to 16 oustees from Rambir Ki Dhani, whose plots were falling in the alignment of the SPR. The draw was boycotted by the oustees, who later moved the high court, demanding they be treated equal to oustees of the NPR, particularly those of  . Following this, the high court, in September 2016, decided in favour of the oustees.
 
 In July-August 2016, Huda had allotted alternative plots to oustees of NPR and SPR, but the terms and conditions of the allotments were different. As per the terms of settlement between oustees of NPR ( ) and Huda, under guidance of the high court, NPR oustees from New Palam Vihar were given alternative plots without any charges, along with a six-month leeway from the day of allotment to shift their homes.
 
 But SPR oustees were given alternative plots as per the Relocation and Rehabilitation Policy of 2010, according to which, oustees got compensation for the land, and alternative plots which they had to buy at market price. The policy also does not recommend any timeline for shifting houses.
 
 Charan Singh, an SPR oustee, said they are not against the road, as the completed road would improve connectivity of Golf Course Road, Faridabad road, Sohna road and nearby areas, with NH-8, and reduce traffic load on   expressway. “We just wanted similar treatment for rehabilitation, and some time to shift homes,” said Singh, adding they are happy the government has agreed to their demands. The move is expected to boost Gurgaon’s real estate industry, as many commercial and residential projects are being developed along the SPR.
 
