NAGPUR: Nagpur University figured between 100th and 150th position in the rankings of universities declared by ‘National Institutional Ranking Framework’ on Monday.

 Though not in overall list of institutions, NU’s name figured among top 150 in the list of traditional universities topped by the ‘Indian Institute of Science (IIS), Bangalore’. Interestingly, Mumbai University also found its name in the same list of 100-150, just 11 places above  , along with Dr   in Aurangabad and North Maharashtra University in Jalgaon.
 
 The participating institutions were measured on various parameters like faculties, placements, infrastructure and facilities, patents and earnings through them, and projects among others. Last year, NU failed to participate in the ranking process as officials miserably failed to send the data in time to NIRF office. In next few years, many from city may found their places in the top 150 with national-level institutions like IIM, IIIT, MNLU, and others, already started their operations. 
 
 Only Pune University among traditional ones in Maharashtra featured into top ten in the university segment and on 18th position in overall rankings. However, colleges like Ramdeobaba College of Engineering and Management (RCOEM) and GH Raisoni College of Engineering (GHRCE) have brought laurels for the city by figuring at 64th and 67th positions respectively in the engineering and technology section. However, highest ranking among city based institutions, in this section, is achieved by Visvesvaraya National Institute of Technology (VNIT), which is positioned at 42nd number.
 
 Overall, there is not a single institution from the city figuring in top 100, but GHRCE, RCOEM and VNIT are among institutions between 100 and 150.
 
 The pharmacy colleges affiliated to NU have fared exceptionally well in the pharma segment with as many three figuring among top 50. Kamptee-based   (KBCP) is at 34th rank, followed by Wardha-based Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research (IPER) at 45th, and city-based Guru Nanak College of Pharmacy (GNCP) at 49th.
 
 “We are far better placed than expected and we would continue to improve our position in overall rankings. Out of about 370 universities, NU’s rank is between 100-150, which means it’s doing good. Even other big universities like Mumbai and Marathwada are in same list, an elated vice chancellor SP Kane told TOI.
 
 He added that if only traditional universities were taken into account, NU would figure among top 50 and they were satisfied with the ranking.
 
 Though Tirpude Institute of Management Education director Lalit Khullar admitted that NU needed improvement in all sectors, he said the parameters on which the rankings were based were skewed. “They (NIRF) never informed anyone about parameters on which rankings were based. At least the colleges should have prepared themselves. Resultantly, only private colleges dominated all lists.”
 
 He said NU had done well in last couple of years and would improve its position in next couple of years due to slew reforms initiated by the new administration.
 
