Nagpur: The Yuva Nagbhushan Award 2016, was conferred upon 17-year-old Gargi Gajanan Nimdev for her excellence in the field of education at the hands of union minister Nitin Gadkari at Baburao Dhanwate Sabhagruh, Shankar Nagar on Sunday.

 The award is instituted by the Nagbhushan Foundation and till now 8 awards have been given. The last Nagbhushan Award which is the highest civilian award of Nagpur was given to chief minister Devendra Fadanvis.
 
 Gargi topped the quiz competition named Ganit Manjusha Spardha in 2015. 
 
 A student of Shivaji Science College, Gargi is currently in class 11. From being the first rank holder since the start of her school days, to almost getting first rank in all sorts of competition she had participated, her aspiration is now to pursue engineering and then to become an IAS officer. 
 
 She also bagged the prize for the title of brain of Vidarbha organized by TOI, Star of Nikalas, The Grandmaster title in Abacus and brain gym quiz. Apart from getting recognition in such heavy quiz competitions, Gargi has also bagged many prizes for her drawing skills.
 
 Talking to TOI, Gargi said that Matematics is her favourite subject but she also loves playing basketball, badminton and is also learning swimming. “My happiness is on another level as I am getting the award from the ornament of our state itself", she quipped.
 
 While expressing her love for music, she says, “I always love to play keyboard, but maths is always a fun."
 
 Nitin Gadkari was all praises for the young girl while felicitating her for her talent. ”It gives me a feeling of proud and in fact to all of us that at such a young age, this kid is getting such a big award and becoming an inspiration for the youth,” he added.
 
 While accepting the award, Gargi said, “I will work really hard in the future and put in as much effort as possible to maintain the pride of Nagbhusan award.”
 
 On the occasion, Satish Goyal, Girish Gandhi, Ashok Mote and others were present. Rekha Dandike conducted the programme while Ajay Patil concluded it with the vote of thanks.
 
 (Reporting by 
 
 Megha Tiwari)
 
 
