Panaji: In a momentous journey back home, the sacred relics of the 17th century Queen (Saint) Ketevan of Georgia, uncovered by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) within the ruins of St Augustine Convent in Old Goa, will return to Georgia on Saturday evening for six months.

 Packed and sealed in a diplomatic bag in the presence of the Ambassador of Georgia, Archil Dzuliashvili, customs officials and ASI officials on Friday evening, the relics were handed over to Dzuliashvili, who will carry them to Georgia. 
 
 ASI officials are also accompanying the relics that are being sent, following an agreement signed between the two countries. 
 
 In a fascinating story spanning Georgia, Iran and India, the relics will first be taken to the National Museum of Georgia, following which it will travel to 49 churches around the country. 
 
 “I can’t explain how happy I am,” Dzuliashvili told TOI. “After four centuries of absence, everyone is anxiously waiting for the relics of St Ketevan who is highly revered because she was martyred and saved the identity of the Georgian people. The event also coincides with the 25th year of diplomatic relations between India and Georgia. We’re grateful to the Indian government for sending the relics in time for the feast of St Ketevan on September 26,” he said. 
 
 A conference is also being planned in Georgia where archaeologists from the ASI team that uncovered the relics, scientists from Georgia and researchers who helped piece together the Portuguese documentation that led to the relics being discovered in 2004, will participate.
 
 Uday Shastry, deputy superintending archaeologist, Goa circle, ASI, who is also travelling to Georgia, says it is a first of its kind case where Christian relics, almost 400 years old, were uncovered with the help of literary evidence.
 
 The remains were discovered by ASI following excavations that lasted more than a decade. 
 
 Fr Giorgi Razmadze, dean of St Martyr Ketevan’s Church in Avchala, Tbilisi who has visited the state on multiple occasions since the late 1990s and assisted in the research of St Ketevan’s life and death, while urging ASI to restart archaeological excavations, is ecstatic. 
 
 “Our efforts over these years have finally borne fruit. I am very emotional,” he says, adding that Georgia will keep urging the Indian government to send the relics for more such exhibitions in the future. 
 
 Two Augustinian Friars unearthed the remains of St Ketevan from Iran, hid them from 1624 till 1627 and then brought them to Goa.
 
 
