A large number of colleges have anti-sexual harassment cells, but   found out that most college students were shockingly unaware of their existence. Their most common response to the topic of anti-sexual harassment cells was: ‘Something like this has never happened to me or any of my friends so I am not really aware of it.’ Most youngsters fail to understand that even though there may never be a reason for them to approach the cell, it is imperative for them to be aware of it, at least. 

 Most still repose their faith on the police department when it comes to incidents of eve-teasing and stalking. Says Pooja Gavande, a final year BA student at DG Ruparel College, “I am faced with a situation like this, I will confide in a counsellor or one of my professors. And if the matter goes out of hand, I will also inform my parents or approach the police as a last resort.” 
 
 
 
 Sometimes, students are unaware of key activities on the campus, which include seminars and workshops. For instance,   offers a two-month certificate course on gender issues. Leena Pujari, professor of sociology and convenor of the gender issue cell at the college, says, “The aim of our certificate course is not to be reactive, but preventive.”
 
 
 Though these cells are part of the Women’s Development Cell (WDC), they are also accessible to boys. And so, they are broadly termed as Gender Issues Cell.  , a social activist and lawyer, conducts seminars in several city schools and colleges. She says, “Abuse knows no gender. There is sexism in society. While the figures for women have been grotesquely large, boys are victims too. But in case of boys, it’s not even regarded as abuse.” 
 
 Many colleges appoint a committee to look into the matter. Bhuvan Majmudar, a first year mass media student at St Xavier’s College, says, “We have a women’s development cell in college that can be approached for off-the-campus cases too. The CST-Metro subway, which is mostly isolated, has some safety concerns. Incidents of catcalling are recurrent. Recently, our principal had written to the BMC regarding security concerns and immediate action was taken.” 
 
 Dr VI Katchi, principal, Bhavan’s College, says, “Our college has an anti-ragging and a statutory committee that deals with cases of harassment. We also have a grievance redressal cell to deal with issues pertaining to staff members and students. During admissions, especially for first years, teachers are on the vigil and nip the trouble in the bud.” Some colleges address the concerns of the third gender as well as the transgender community along with a host of programmes throughout the year. Adds Pujari, “We use gender-neutral pronouns in the class and are cautious with the language we use. ‘Ze’ is used to refer to transgenders.”
 
 
 
 While Leena adds that nothing serious has been reported until now, cases of sexual harassment have been confined to sexist statements, which have been dealt with adequately. Trisha, however says that open dialogues are necessary. She informs, “We ask students, ‘What do you do when someone you know harasses you?’ Surprisingly, most don’t have an answer to that. We teach them how to confront and deal with these issues, including how to lodge a complaint. No pocket of society is safe. I have come across students who’ve been abused as kids. They tell us that their parents who were aware of it, kept quiet as they didn’t want to be shamed by society. We have open dialogues with youngsters and the effect is instant. After a few sessions, many approach us saying they want to file a complaint.”
 
 
 
 Youngsters are using social media as best as they can. And that includes using it as a platform to vent out what and how they feel about an issue. Pranil Tailor, a first year mass media student, says, “I was a part of the college fest and a few from there would rag me. I posted a quote on Facebook and my detractors figured it was an attack on them. Not being straightforward helped and they eventually backed out.” Utsavi, a final year student at  , says, “At some point, my friends and I have all faced this issue. I tend to block such people on social media as that’s become the spot to harass. I don’t involve my friends or relatives unless it’s something big.”
 
 
 
