Patiala: With the   clearing its stand on the construction of   (SYL) canal,   has requested the   to facilitate dialogue with   for an early resolution of the vexed issue concerning the neighbouring states. A three-judge bench headed by Justice Dipak Misra on Tuesday directed Punjab and Haryana to "respect and execute" its verdict on the construction of the SYL canal. The apex court also directed both states to ensure peace and prevent agitations over the issue. 

 While Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar welcomed the orders claiming that "justice had been served," Amarinder Singh said the Supreme Court had given two months' time to resolve the issue and requested the Union government to facilitate dialogue with Haryana for an early resolution of the vexed issue concerning the neighbouring states. In a press release issued by Punjab CM, he reiterated that the problem could be solved only through negotiations. He said while Punjab did not want to deprive anyone of the essential commodity, the critical shortage of water in the state prevented it from sharing this vital resource. While Haryana contended that it had executed the decree passed by the apex court, Punjab stated that construction of canal has been delayed because of the legal implications. Haryana's Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) had been holding protests over the non-completion of the SYL canal and had on Monday blocked several roads to thwart vehicles from Punjab entering the state.
 
 Taking into account a statement given by the Union government in the court that an early settlement of the SYL canal dispute between the two states was anticipated soon, the court fixed September 7 as the next date of hearing, giving more time to Punjab and Haryana to end the deadlock.
 
 Amarinder Singh said the state has been taking all possible steps to conserve the depleting groundwater and had also set up separate department for groundwater management to assess the availability of water and adequate steps for its conservation. The CM said water in Punjab rivers had declined over the years due to the melting glaciers in the higher reaches.
 
 Captain welcomed the Supreme Court's directive to stop agitations over the SYL canal, saying neither Punjab nor Haryana could afford to have violence over the issue.
 
 
