Coimbatore: The city corporation has turned the crematorium located at Chokkam Pudur into a dump yard. Apart from dumping solid wastes, construction debris is also discarded in the crematorium land every night.

 One acre of the crematorium is maintained by the Coimbatore Social Services, an NGO. The corporation has neither appointed a security guard to man the crematorium spread across several acres nor kept its gates locked. The crematorium has become a hideout for anti-social elements as well. 
 
 S Sri Vidhya, a resident of the area, said some of the main problems at the crematorium were the absence of street lights, dumping of debris at night and the absence of gates at both ends of the compound. 
 
 “The road located inside the crematorium is being used by the public and schoolchildren during the day as they find the bund road dangerous. Nevertheless, after 6.30pm anti-social elements occupy the area to consume alcohol. Prostitution also takes place,” she said.
 
 Furthermore, she said she had noticed debris being unloaded from more than 10 trucks in the crematorium at nights. “No action is taken on these violators,” she said. 
 
 J Antony, a member of the environmentalist foundation of India said that he had been undertaking the lake clean-up at Kumarasamy tank for a long time and that is when he noticed the crematorium. “I have seen many of the workers staying in the nearby areas using this land as a toilet. Open defecation is a major problem. The toilets in the area hardly have water supply,” he said. 
 
 Once a year, the public cleans the crematorium during a temple festival. “Once some NGOs tried to set up tracks for walking and laid a lawn. But the civic body did not maintain it and it is in ruins now,” Shankar of Coimbatore social services said. 
 
 The employee of the NGO also said that the only way to stop all illegal activities was to ensure gates were set up at all ends of the crematorium and lock them after 7 pm. The keys could be maintained by three people in the area.
 
 Residents and the members of the NGOs said that they will soon petition the corporation commissioner or even undertake a protest if the crematorium is not maintained. 
 
 
