BHOPAL: State minister for SC/ST welfare Gyan Singh was elected MP from   seat in a   ago. Results were declared on November 22 and Gyan Singh defeated Congress’ Himadri Singh by a margin of about 60,000 votes. 

 He took oath in Parliament on December 6, but still continues to be a cabinet minister in the Shivraj Singh Chouhan government. The Constitution mandates that a minister can continue in office for six months without being a member of the state legislature.
 
 Gyan Singh, who was MLA from Bandavgarh assembly seat, resigned in the first week of December from the state assembly before he was sworn-in as member of Lok Sabha. Asked if Gyan Singh has sent his resignation to the chief minister yet, minister for water resources and state government spokesman Narottam Mishra told TOI, “Six months is not over. There are still a few days left.”
 
 And that is all the government is expected say in a situation when a minister just refuses to step down. The Shivraj Singh Chouhan BJP government is hoping that good sense will prevail and the minister will put in his papers without much persuasion.
 
 Sources in the state BJP, however, said that Gyan Singh was not willing to contest the elections from Shahdol. He did not want to give-up his ministerial berth in the   government. But the BJP needed a known, reliable face in the Shahdol tribal reserved seat to take on the Congress’ young Himadri Singh. As Gyan Singh was the only winnable option, he was sent to the Shahdol battleground but after winning he refused to leave his ministerial berth.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Congress’ leader of opposition Ajay Singh recalled how Gyan Singh turned up for a Business Advisory Committee meeting in the state assembly and sat there because he was still a minister. 
 
 The assembly committee meeting was scheduled in the early part of this month before the special one-day session to ratify the GST Bill. “Gyan Singh came in and took a chair along with other ministers, even though he is no longer a member of the assembly. Chief minister was present and the Speaker was there.
 
  Everyone started looking at each other, not knowing how to manage the embarassing situation,” Ajay Singh said. Later, a senior official of the state assembly secretariat asked Gyan Singh to sit in the Speaker’s chamber.
 
 To pacify a sulking Gyan Singh, the BJP gave his son Shivnarayan Singh the ticket to contest from his erstwhile assembly seat Bandavgarh. After winning the seat, Shivnarayan was to be sworn-in on May 3 as new MLA and the father again created an embarrassing situation wanting to sit in the House while his son took oath. After a lot of explanation and coaxing, he was taken to the Speaker’s chamber and told to watch the swearing-in on TV because as an MP he cannot sit on an MLA’s chair in the House.
 
 With less than two weeks before the six-month ministerial deadline ends, the BJP is staring at yet another challenging situation. A senior cabinet minister said that Gyan Singh is not happy with just Shivnarayan becoming a legislator from Bandavgarh. He now wants that Shivnarayan should be given a cabinet berth and his father’s SC/ST welfare department.
 
