MUMBAI: In one of the highest payouts in an accident claims case, an insurance company will pay a   of Rs 3.35 crore to the 70-year-old   of a   who died in a   on the Western Express Highway in 2015. The   was reached on Saturday before the   held to hear matters relating to motor accident claims. 

 The victim’s father, a former aviation industry employee, told TOI, “When my wife and I first submitted the claim before the Motor Accident Claims Tribunal in June 2015, we had sought a compensation of Rs 10 crore. Our son was only 28 years old and was earning very well. He was our only child. We have been to the tribunal several times over the last two years. On Saturday, we agreed to settle so that the matter could come to an end.” 
 
 The father, who suspects foul play in the accident, said he had expressed his apprehensions to the police. “But they concluded it was an accident and the driver was booked under Indian Penal Code sections 279 and 304 (A) for rash driving and negligence. The trial is pending before the Andheri magistrate’s court,” he added. 
 
 The matter will come up for hearing in June. 
 
 On April 5, 2015, the driver picked up the pilot, who was employed with a private airlines, from his residence and was ferrying him to the airport in a car provided by the company with which the airlines had a contract. 
 
 Around 5.45am, while driving from a low-lying stretch on to the south-bound carriageway of Andheri flyover, the driver lost control of the car and rammed into the barrier. The pilot, who was in the backseat, suffered severe head injuries—a haemorrhage and excessive bleeding—and the driver sustained minor injuries. 
 
 A passing motorist alerted the traffic police, who rushed the pilot and driver to R N Cooper Hospital in Vile Parle (W). The doctors at the hospital pronounced the pilot dead on arrival. 
 
 The 30-year-old driver was granted bail soon after the incident. 
 
 The police claimed that the driver was ‘overworked’ and had possibly worked double shifts.
 
