Ahmedabad: With Gujarat’s in-charge DGP, P P Pandey, deciding to step down from his post, the race has begun for the seats he’s left vacant. A former DGP, Julio Ribeiro, had challenged Pandey’s appointment before the Supreme Court.

 
 Meanwhile, MoS, home, Pradeepsinh Jadeja, ACS home, MS Dagoor, and other senior home department officials went into a huddle at CM Vijay Rupani’s bunglow to decide on Pandey’s successor. According to norms, the state government has to form a panel of four IPS officers from which one has to be selected for the top post.
 
 “Pandey had held two DGP posts, that of the state DGP and also of DGP, ACB,” a police official said.
 
 Sources in police said Gujarat’s first woman DGP-level officer, Geetha Johri, a 1982-batch IPS, is the frontrunner in the race for the state DGP’s post. Johri is currently posted at the State Police Housing Corporation, Gandhinagar.
 
 
 
 Johri was an accused in the Sohrabuddin-Tulsiram Prajapati fake encounter case. However, the special CBI court discharged her from the case in March 2015, because the prosecution failed to obtain sanction for her prosecution from the state government. Such sanction is mandatory to try IPS officers.
 
 Sources said, 1983-batch IPS officer Pramod Kumar, presently posted as DGP, armed units, is also in the race. He had been in-charge DGP of Gujarat for some time. Believed to be close to Anandiben administration, Pramod Kumar, however, had come under fire because he allegedly failed to gauge the extent of Paridar unrest during his stint as DGP, intelligence.
 
 After Pandey’s resignation and retirement of 1980-batch IPS officer HP Singh, three posts of the rank of DGP have fallen vacant, while Johri and Pramod Kumar are holding two. On top of these, the department of personnel and training has sanctioned two more posts of DGP rank.
 
 So, in all, Gujarat now has seven DGP-level posts, with the post of state DGP up for grabs.
 
 With promotions from additional DGP to DGP to be announced shortly, 1983-batch IPS officer, Shivanand Jha, additional DGP, intelligence, and 1984-batch IPS officer, Tirthraj, additional DGP, law and order, could well turn out to be dark horses in the race for the top cop’s post said a source from the state home department.
 
 Promotions from Addl DGP to DGP and IGP to Addl DGP expected soon
 
 Top police sources said even as the Departmental Promotion Committee has recommended promotions for 19 IPS officers, promotions from additional DGP to DGP and IGP to additional DGP could be announced together with the appointment of the new DGP.
 
 
