NAGPUR: First-aid knowledge can prove to be an important asset during emergency situations. It can save a person’s life and prevent complications. 

 The members of Nagpur for Kids ( ) Club got an opportunity to learn first-aid and cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) techniques at a workshop organized by   at Ashoka Hall, Chitnavis Centre on Tuesday. The workshop was conducted by well-known anaesthesiologist Dr Shobha Daga.
 
 The workshop began with a discussion on different life threatening situations and how to respond to them. Most children, who were unaware of such situations, could only think of an ambulance.
 
 Jai Joshi, project coordinator at Gangadharrao Chitnavis Trust, said that everyone must undergo first-aid and CPR training because mishaps could happen anytime.
 
 The workshop was divided into two sessions, live   and presentation.
 
 With the help of dummies, Daga demonstrated how to respond to different emergencies. Though the first-aid techniques are very easy but hardly very few people know about them, she said. 
 
 “During emergencies people should not sit back, cry, and wait for the ambulance to arrive. The CPR training save life of a patient.”
 
 Daga demonstrated emergency first-aid techniques for heat stroke, heart attack, burns, cuts, internal bleeding, drowning and accidents. She said that the first priority should be to access the accident and casualty site. One should not harm the injured persons and stay away if one is unaware of what needs to be done, she added.
 
 During the presentation session, Daga discussed different treatments and recovery positions. Later, she explained how to prevent and address life threatening situations. Daga also demonstrated CPR with the help of one of the kids.
 
 MT Agrawal, a parent, said that CPR and first-aid workshop is not only important for children but also for adults. “If one knows these techniques, he can be beneficial to an injured patient and can buy time for the patient till medics arrive.”
 
 NFK member Yash Yadav said that he never knew that the first-aid techniques were easy. “I will go home and teach CPR to my parents and siblings too.”
 
 Quotes:
 
 Demonstration of the CPR procedure was the most interesting part of the workshop. Now, I can save a life if there is an emergency situation 
 
 Rudranshh Singh | Bhavans, Trimurti Nagar
 
 We learnt different techniques like recovery position, mouth respiration and pulse identification which are very beneficial. I will motivate my friends to learn the same
 
 Saanvvi Singh | Bhavans, Trimurti Nagar
 
 Demonstration and slides about different first-aid techniques were informative. Now, I know what to do if someone is burning or drowning
 
 Aastha Deshbhratar | BKVV, Telankhedi
 
 The experts at the workshop were very good. Explanation and live demonstration of CPR and other first-aid techniques was the best part of the event 
 
 Dishant Deshbhratar | BKVV, Telankhedi
 
 I learnt how to respond to different situations like heat stroke, brain stroke and heart attack. I will go home and search more videos regarding the same
 
 Raghav Joshi | Bhavans, Ashti
 
 Reporting by Praveen Tewari
 
 
