MUMBAI: The state environment department has directed Mumbai   to take action against garage mechanics and bikers, who alter bike   and shrill horns, which create noise pollution. 

 The directive came after Mahim residents Irfan Macchiwala and Farooque Dhala wrote to the Regional Transport Office, transport commissioner and environment department complaining against noise pollution by the illegal alteration of silencers and shrill horns. “Though the problem is across the city, we, the residents of Mahim are finding it difficult to curb the growing menace of the thundering sound of   passing through Lady Jamshedji Road and Cadell Road. Senior citizens are unable to get peaceful sleep, and our investigation found that youngsters had modified their silencers to create noise,” said Dhala. Many bikers are unaware that alteration of a factory model is illegal under the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988. Any alteration that results in an up to 10% increase in weight of a vehicle must be done with the manufacturer and RTO’s consent.
 
 While changes to exhaust pipes are not allowed, removing the catalytic converter, a component fitted to the exhaust pipe, is the easiest way to boost a bike’s “vroom”. Tuning the engine and changing the brake system is another method.
 
 Machiwala said some horns created a very discomforting sound and it was above the permissible limit. “If police really want to curb noise pollution, they should focus on bike garages which make alterations and spare parts shopkeepers who sell   Chinese silencers.”
 
 Joint commissioner of police (law & order) Deven Bharti said they were yet to receive the order. “We have issued instructions to all police stations to take stern action against the bikers and illegal horns,” said Bharti.
 
 The bikes with noisy silencers have became a menace all over the city. “It is the traffic police’s duty to keep a check on the bikers but they are short-staffed, and there is hardly any presence of policemen in the interiors of Kalina-Vakola, where noisy bikers move freely late at night. Despite complaints, police have failed to stop them. Police have often caught groups of bikers who race on weekends from Kalanagar junction at Bandra to Borivli,” said Raj Kumar, a Kalina resident. 
 
 While bikes with modified exhaust pipes are on the rise, the number of bikers booked has been on the decline over the past few years. Traffic police said last year 18 have been booked and fined Rs 6,000, compared to 56 cases and Rs 20,500 collected in fines in 2015; 77 were booked and Rs 28,000 was collected in 2014. Most of these bikers are aged 15-28. 
 
 A garage owner from Khetwadi said, “Unless police take stern action against suppliers and dealers, this menace will not decrease. The market is full of such horns from China, Delhi, Punjab, Indore and Pune. While changes to exhaust pipes are not allowed, removing the catalytic converter, a component fitted to the exhaust pipe, is the easiest way to boost a bike’s “vroom”.
 
 Mechanics said noisy silencers are imported from Bangkok, Taiwan and China, for Rs 8,000-35,000. These can be fitted onto cars too. In India, copies of imported silencers are created to meet an increasing demand from youngsters. These copies are manufactured in Delhi and Agra and sold in various cities. Apart from the silencers, there are boosters that are fitted on to a bike’s silencer to create bike racing-like sounds.
 
