 is among one of the most vocal filmmakers when it comes to environmental issues. After his upcoming film on climate change, ' ', got a special mention in the  , the Delhi-based director spoke to us about the attitude of Delhiites towards environmental issues.

 
 
 
 Nila says, "The special mention in the National Awards holds importance because now the audience will take it more seriously. The film is about the fight for survival of two men, who come from two extreme weather conditions. The story brings forth the aftermath of drought and cyclone. It is about how climate change can impact an economy, emotions and human life."
 
 The filmmaker adds, "We have just completed the film. Any film that is submitted by December 31 is considered for the review process by the jury, so we have also submitted our film. Now, after the special mention in the National Awards, we will screen it in different countries at international film festivals, and we will release it here in October."
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  A still from Nila Madhab Panda’s film Kadvi Hawa, which got a special mention in the 64th National Film Awards
 
 
 
 
 Nila's last film ' ' was about water scarcity, and he says that it got a good response from the audience. "Cinema is a force people can't ignore, and movies can get people talking about relevant issues. With 'Kadvi Hawa', I want to tell people, 'Look, this is happening! Don't shut yourself from it. Do something.'"
 
 
 
 The director, who lives in Delhi, says that unfortunately, Delhi doesn’t care about its environment. He says, "Delhiites have closed their minds towards the impact of pollution, they shout slogans, organize rallies, and then forget about it. Whether you register it or not, climate change is happening, and it's happening very fast.In the last few years, it has become worse. When we talk about climate change, we say, 'Haan ho raha hai, lekin mere ghar mein nahin ho raha hai.' It's happening right now, with all of us. Act now, or you will be nowhere, that’s the message of the film."
 
