BHUBANESWAR: At about 7pm on Friday, Swalia Bibi heard a knock at her door. The 31-year-old wife of a scrap collector found a few men standing outside her humble dwelling in the city’s Shikharchandi Basti. She could hardly believe her ears when the men — executives from state-run fuel retailers IndianOil and   — said her household would mark the two crore milestone in  , the   government’s scheme for providing free   connection to poor families.

 “As a foot soldier assigned with the task to effectively implement Ujjwala and as a proud Odia, achieving this only makes it special,” oil minister   said after handing over the connection to Bibi at a function to formally launch BS-IV grade fuel supplies throughout the country. Bibi symbolises the government’s feat of exceeding the target of 1.5 crore households by a third in just 11 months. Bibi was clearly caught unawares but she was certainly excited about the promise of LPG changing her life for the better. “I feel very good that I am among the two crore poor families. I have seen in my neighbourhood that women from families with LPG don't have to start their day at four in the morning so that they can finish chores at home before going to collect firewood like I do,” a visibly emotional Bibi told TOI on Saturday.
 
 Bibi’s husband S K Faku earns Rs 100-200 a day. She supplements this earning by working as a part-time cook to support her four children and mother-in-law. This takes a heavy physical toll — cooking morning meals for the family, collecting firewood, going to work and then come back home in the evening to cook dinner. The biggest change she’s looking forward to is the freedom from constant coughing due to smoke from firewood. “Dhuen se khanste-kahnste bedam ho jate hain bachein. Kapre bhi kale ho jate hai. Ab nijad milega (Children choke from the smoke. Clothes get blackened. Now we will get freedom from such problems),” Bibi said.
 
 But can she afford to buy a refill? “Bilkul! Isi amdani se bachat kar ke ho jayega (Of course! We will save from this income itself to pay for cylinder),” she said. And what does she have to say to the next three crore poor women who will get Ujjwala connections by 2019? “Yehi kahungi ki unke liye bahut achcha hoga. (All I can say is it will be very good for them).”
 
