CHANDIGARH: As campaigning reached a crescendo on the last day on Thursday, all three key players held major shows of strength across the state with rallies and roadshows. If the NRI supporters added colour by organizing “Jago”, the Congress called in “dholis” to play Punjabi beats even as its vice-president Rahul Gandhi and AAP supremo Arvind Kejriwal took parting shots at their rivals. Punjabi artistes too pitched in to support leaders from their fraternity.

 While Kejriwal participated in roadshows in Sahnewal and Dakha constituencies of Ludhiana, Rahul addressed a rally in Akali bastion Lambi to support party’s CM face Capt  . According to Punjab Congress, over 16,000 bikers took party in 117 bike rallies all over Punjab. In each constiruency, around 150 bikers roamed with Congress flags on their bikes and the song, ‘Chaunda Hai Punjab, Captain di Sarkaar’ blaring through the speakers. These bikers went to all villages and public areas spreading the message of the Congress and distributing collaterals- calendars and scales.
 
 The roadshows of candidates like Jasvir Singh Jassi Sekhon, AAP candidate from Dhuri, had party supporters had come in tractors, combines and even JCBs. “There was a serpentine show that was testimony to AAP’s popularity among young voters,” he said.
 
 The entire top leadership of AAP, including Delhi deputy CM   and in charge of Punjab affairs Sanjay Singh participated in similar events in different constituencies. “There was at least one roadshow in support for each of the 112 candidate,” said an AAP leader.
 
 A Congress leader added, “A total of 15,000 volunteers are taking the message of the Congress to every household in Punjab; and tagging along are 2,500 dholwallas to give a glimpse of the festivities that are to follow. These volunteers did door-to-door meetings to solidify the support base of Congress.”
 
 To give people a different flavour of campaigning, more than 100 Nukkad Nataks were done in various public places by the Congress. These plays were customised as per the local issues in the area and were used to highlight the misrule of the SAD-BJP government and the incompetency of AAP.
 
 Silk flags were omnipresent as supporters of all parties carried there to rallies and roadshows. Dance troupes dressed in traditional attire too performed in various constituencies.
 
 In the last lap, all the candidates are campaigning aggressively by taking out rallies, roadshows, padyatras, and Jalsas. In Tarn Taran, Kapurthala, Hoshiarpur, Jalandhar, Ludhiana, Amritsar, Patiala, Gurdaspur, almost all the candidates did massive roadshows and rallies. While in the other districts the candidates carried out padyatras to reach out to everyone in their constituencies.
 
 Who did what?
 
 Rahul Gandhi
 
 Started off with his day at a community kitchen – Sajhan Chulha, in Baliyan Village, Sangrur, where he interacted and shared a meal. He later addressed a mammoth rally in Gidderbaha
 
 Arvind Kejriwal
 
 Kejriwal participated in roadshows in Dakha and Sahnewal in Ludhiana district
 
 Captain Amarinder Singh
 
 He, along with Rahul, addressed a rally together in the bastion of Parkash Singh Badal, Lambi
 
 Navjot Singh Sidhu
 
 Navjot Singh Sidhu interacted with crowds in Jalandhar Cantt, Ludhiana East, and Bathinda Urban at rallies and roadshows
 
 Sukhbir Singh Badal
 
 The SAD president held a road show in Jalalabad and covered over 25 villages in the constituency. He held the show in a jeep
 
 Bhagwant Mann
 
 Mann too campaigned in Jalalabad and got support from prominent Punjabi singers and comedians
 
 Gurpreet Ghuggi
 
 The AAP state convener organised a roadshow and also had a large number of NRIs in his constituency Batala to campaign in his support
 
 Ravneet Bittu
 
 Bittu held a roadshow in Jalalabad and Arnivaal that passed through bazaars, markets, dana mandi and various important places of the city.
 
 
