That iconic romantic shot of a coy   and a smitten   under one umbrella on a rainy night. Or that cutesy moment when a dapper   in a black tuxedo and the lovely   in a black halter gown waltz on an idyllic bridge somewhere in Switzerland. Or even those recent goosebump-inducing Dilwale wallpapers where SRK and Kajol (again) romance on a boat in surreal Iceland.These are just some of the filmy moments being recreated right here in Hyderabad by city couples who are going all out to give their pre-wedding photoshoots a seriously cinematic touch. 
 ’Cos afterall, marriages may be made in heaven, but its memories are surely made here on earth. And they leave no stone unturned. From make up and costumes, to destinations — everything is on point!
 
 
 
 Gone are the days when pre-wedding shoots were about couples holding tacky frames with boards that read ‘I am getting hitched’ and the likes, says photographer  . “Couples today are not shying away from experimenting with larger-than-life concepts. From storyboarding to directing the shoot, they give us full freedom so that we can deliver their dream shoot. Most couples opt to recreate their favourite filmi memories and sometimes, even take inspiration from reel couples,” adds Shreyan.
 Through iconic movie scenes most couples seek to retell their own love stories — be it an arranged match or a love marriage. “It’s important to understand what they really want to tell through these frames. So even if there is no direct influence of cinema, the story-telling and narration is, more often than not, cinematic,” says  , another photographer, who says couples start gearing up for these pre-wedding shoots at least two to three months before the 
 D-Day. 
 planning these shoots is much like the pre-production work that goes into films. “It includes location recces, multiple brain storming sessions for ideas, getting the costumes in place etc., to get the desired results. We need at least one month to do all that. But the good part is, the couples are willing to go all the way and are enthusiastic about 
 experimenting with everything from looks to locations,” adds Raj Kishore.
 
 
 
 Recently back from a pre-wedding shoot in Kerala, photographer Kishor Krishnamoorthi says, “Nowadays, a lot of people are coming to us with one main request — no posing in front of Hyderabad’s heritage buildings, be it the iconic Charminar or the  . It’s done to death, they say, and ergo, they want something fresh.” That explains why most wedding photographers travel far and wide, he points out, adding, “I am now gearing up for a pre-wedding shoot in Europe for a client. But even if their budget doesn’t allow an international shoot, the couples want to ensure an out-of-this-world frame. That may mean a lot of recces in the outskirts of the city to find farmlands or grasslands or even heaps of hay.” ‘Surreal’ seems to be the key word today. “Take for instance this one bride who wanted to shoot at Taramati, but was keen to add some fantastical element to it. So I called up my friend who had a vintage car and used it as a prop. That ensured that the frames looked whimsical.”
 
 
 
 The more experimental ones don’t shy away from signing up for some sensual and intimate shots as well. “A lot of couples are game for some risque shots too; but these are for their eyes only. In fact, the contracts even have a clear clause which prohibit photographers from sharing these pics or using them in 
 portfolios,” explains Shreyan.
 
 
 Photoshoots aren’t all. Many couples are now opting for pre-wedding films too. And many use these films as a wedding invitations as well. Anup Wadhwa, a Gujarati boy who got married to Hyderabad-based Priya says, “Although we did print wedding invitations in keeping with the tradition, we also wanted to go the digital way. Our friends and the family members loved the lil’ pre-wedding film we got made. And since ours was an arranged marriage, shooting for this wedding film also helped us to get to know each other better!” The trick is to keep it short and sweet, says Raj. “We make small clips, below 2 minutes, to circulate as invites. And for couples who want to tell their tale of love in a film, the videos are longer. These wedding films are played at the sangeet or the reception so that friends and family too can enjoy.”
 
 
 
 Harika Jain, a newly-wed who got an elaborate shoot done, says, “pre-wedding shoots aren’t just about having some fun while documenting our journey together, as we discovered. All those pics that didn’t make it to our album, came handy as social media post cards to announce our wedding and also helped jazz up a slideshow that displayed our story on screen during our sangeet.” Photographer Raj also confirms, “Of the hundreds of frames we deliver, most of them don’t even print a single one. All of these images are actually used on social media and as e-invites.” 
 With all that fun and functionality, we guess this new-found ritual in Indian weddings are here to stay. 
 
