CHENNAI: Do reusable hospital products like linen and textiles come under the ambit of bio medical waste management rules? At present there is no provision for this, but the Southern bench of the   is expected to deliberate on the matter. 

 In a petition, Jawaharlal Shanmugam of Thiruvanmiyur had sought directions to the department of health and family welfare, directorate of medical education, Metrowater, Stanley Medical College and Hospital and Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB) for categorisation and safe disposal of biomedical waste. 
 
 During the proceedings,  , which operates a plant in Ambattur for cleaning, drying and ironing hospital linen, sought to implead itself in the petition. Challenging its maintainability, Shanmugam filed a counter affidavit saying reusable hospital linen was not bio-medical waste.
 
 The petition said there was a difference between biomedical waste generated in hospitals and reusable products like bedsheets and other linen material and that a biomedical product came under the rules only after being discarded. 
 
 The TNPCB had authorized BJ Expo Pvt Ltd, under the biomedical waste rules, to collect, treat and dispose material like bedsheets, bedcovers, pillow covers, uniforms, towels, mattresses, curtains, operating theatre and labour ward linen. 
 
 "But instead of disposing biomedical waste, the plant was only laundering hospital linen. In fact, it had tweaked the biomedical waste management rules to suit its business operations," said Shanmugam adding that the plant was wrongly provided authorization by TNPCB.
 
 There were two authorized Common Biomedical Waste Treatment Facility (CNMWTF) providers within a 75 km radius of Chennai and as the Ambattur plant was not disposing waste it could not be treated as a CNMWTF. In its impleading petition, the plant "misrepresented facts" and "misled the tribunal." 
 
 It also did not have an effluent treatment plant to treat liquid waste generated while laundering, he said. "It also used the biomedical waste authorization to wean away many hospitals from dhobikhanas," said Shanmugam. 
 
 The tribunal issued notice to authorities and posted the matter to February 21 for further hearing.
 
