PUNE: Three stations under the  , including Pune, are among the 23 selected for the Station Redevelopment Plan of the Indian Railways.

 Asenior official of the Pune division said on Tuesday eight hectares of railway land at three places near the Pune station would be given to private players on lease for   development under the project. Among the selected plots, one is near the   and another is near the second entry to the station. The third plot, identified as the porter parking, is on the front side.
 
 “The selected land will be used for developing infrastructure projects such as malls and multiplexes. Several things, including multilevel parking facility and covered platforms, will come up at the station, too.A foot overbridge is already being constructed. By the yearend, it will connect to all the platforms,“ the official said.
 
 The other two stations under the Central Railway selec ted in the first phase of the Station Redevelopment Plan are Thane and Lokmanya Tilak Terminus (LTT) in Mumbai.
 
 Addressing a news conference here on Tuesday , divisional railway manager B K Dadabhoy said, “With Pune in the first list, the work on the project has started. The station will boast of modern facilities and amenities in the near future.“ The project includes re vamping of infrastructure at stations and their adjoining areas by a private party. Commercial establishments like hotels, malls and multiplexes would be built on the land earmarked by the railways for the selected developer. The developer would hold the right of commercial exploitation of the land for 45 years, while the rail ways would be the landowner.
 
 Secunderabad and Vijayawada, selected under the first phase of the plan, will see a formal inauguration on February 8 by railway minister  . According to the plan, the railways will monetize the assets and explore the commercial use of its properties. A total of around 400 stations across the country have been selected for the project.
 
 Pune-Lonavla lines
 
 The DRM said the third and fourth line of the Pune-Lonavla route was sanctioned in the budget. “The project will be jointly carried out with the state government. Both the Centre and the state government will provide Rs2,126 crore each. Also, the movement of DEMU on the Pune-Daund route is expected to start within the next two months,“ the DRM said.
 
 Going cashless
 
 As many as 1,41,426 pas sengers went for cashless transactions while purchasing tickets from December 13, 2016 to January 31this year.
 
