CHENNAI: The  's announcement in the   earlier this week that it had decided to prematurely release 180 life convicts to mark the  , has turned out to be a faux pas and has broken hearts of men languishing behind high prison walls. 

 "Many prisoners who had completed at least 14 years in jail and thereby had come within the zone of consideration were ready to walk out, as the news of the government's decision had spread like wild fire," a prison official told TOI. It is not going to happen, he said, adding that an exercise might be undertaken for former chief minister   on February 24. 
 
 Asked how the court was given such an information, leading to judges directing prison officials to verify whether the two life convicts in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case - Robert Payas and Jayakumar - would be benefited this time, the official said such a submission had been made in court without getting necessary instructions from prison department.
 
 The last time Tamil Nadu witnessed mass release of life convicts, was in September 2008 when the DMK government released 1,405 prisoners to mark the Annadurai birth anniversary. This time around, it was informed that 180 prisoners would be released, and the eligibility would be completion of at least 14 years unblemished jail term. For the Jayalalithaa birth anniversary releases, the eligibility criterion could be completion of seven years in jail.
 
 Premature release is a cumbersome procedure, said former prison counsel and ex-special public prosecutor for human rights court V Kannadasan. In case of death convicts whose sentence is commuted into life term, completion of 14 years is necessary to become eligible for premature release. For life convicts, the government could fix lesser number of years as eligibility criterion.
 
 Once a threshold level is finalised, a list of all eligible prisoners needs to be prepared and jail officials certify whether the beneficiary concerned has 'reformed' sufficiently during his term. Then the probationary officer visits the native place of the prisoner and find out whether he could be rehabilitated post-release. For the purpose he holds talks with the family as well as the victim's kin to ascertain whether he could live without any retaliation. He files a report on whether the local community is ready to receive him back into its fold.
 
 The list along with these reports are placed before the cabinet and sent to governor with a recommendation. Once the governor gives his assent, the release comes after the prisoner gives a good conduct undertaking in the form of a bond for three years. If, during the three years, he is involved in another offence, his premature release would be cancelled and he would be lodged back in jail.
 
 "This process needs to be gone through, otherwise it could be challenged in court. Since no such procedure had been completed in the current case, there would be no release this Republic Day," the official said.
 
