MUMBAI: Days after the Mumbai senior selectors, led by former skipper  , picked the three teams for the   selection tournament for Under-23 players, the managing committee of the association has butted in by not just deciding to add two more sides, but giving the selection committee a list of players who must be included in those teams.

 The development has triggered a peeved Rege to write a strong mail to   president  . A copy of this letter is with TOI. Rege, while making it clear that he had no issues with the MCA managing committee adding two more teams for the tournament, wrote, "It pained us when we were given a list of players who should be inducted in these teams thereby breaking away from the 'unwritten' tradition rule that there would be no interference from outside and the decision of the selection committee is sacrosanct! My colleagues and the coaches have spent hours in the selection process and our expertise in selection is what sets us apart and are therefore nominated. In my case I have been a selector for over three decades. My committee has strived over the last two years to give Mumbai a team, solidly built over the foundation of trust and good judgement and the future is promising. The result shows for itself. Mumbai has been in the Ranji Trophy final in the past two years, and won the title in 2015-16.
 
 "For those sitting 'outside,' they may see the picture differently, but when you have limitations on the numbers for selection, it's best left to the selectors to do their job. In the history of our cricket this has been the first time (I've been around as a selector since 1985) that instructions have been given by the secretary to 'include' players, a list, which was sent to the selectors, who do not deserve to be there in our view. We feel that its best left to the selectors as we take an overall view in the face of present competition.
 
 This, then sir, is a matter of concern. On behalf of the selection committee, we thought it would be appropriate to bring it to your notice," concludes Rege in the letter.
 
 MCA secretary Khanvilkar defended the managing committee's decision.
 
 "From last year, we always pick four teams for the Madhav Mantri tournament, including one from Andhra. The members of the managing committee felt that since a lot of talented local players weren't getting a chance to play in the event, we needed to increase the number of teams to six, including five local teams," he said.
 
 Apparently, the decision to invite Andhra was taken by the   ( ) last year. "They've always lent a helping hand to us, hosting our teams for matches practice during the off-season. So, it was decided to give exposure to their boys as well," explained Khanvilkar.
 
 When asked why the committee asked the selectors to induct particular players in those teams, he said: "We felt that a lot of players who did well for the Mumbai U-19 team weren't included initial team. They deserved a chance to play here."
 
 Meanwhile, Shelar has denied receiving the letter.
 
