PUNE: Two students of an   were found murdered in the forested area near  , the  , and   on Monday afternoon. 

 They were murdered probably between 7.30pm on Sunday and 2pm on Monday, the police said. Unidentified persons had brutally assaulted the youth and the girl to death and thrown their bodies in the forested area after stripping them. 
 
 The girl’s hands had been tied behind her back and a cloth had been stuffed into her mouth. Blunt objects had been used to inflict deep injuries on their heads and on their backs, the Lonavla police said. 
 
 They have filed a case against unidentified persons under section 302 (punishment for murder) of Indian Penal Code.
 
 The 22-year-old youth, a final-year mechanical engineering student of the college was from Rahuri in Ahmednagar district. He stayed at Bhangarwadi near Lonavla.
 
 The 21-year-old girl, also a final-year computer engineering student, stayed in the college hostel in Lonavla. She was from Otur in Junnar. The police have informed their parents.
 
 In view of the nature of the crime, TOI is withholding the names of both victims and the college they were studying in.
 
 “The reason for the murders and the identities of the suspects who killed them have not been ascertained as yet,” inspector Chandrakant Jadhav of Lonavla city police said. A local resident who was passing by saw the bodies on Monday afternoon and alerted the police. 
 
 They arrived at the spot known as ‘S Point’ in the hill station on the INS Shivaji to Air Force Station road.
 
 They found a driving licence and an Aadhaar card from the spot which identified the youth and the girl. They also found the youths red motorcycle near the crime scene. 
 
 “The police called me at 4.30pm to identify the bodies of both the students,” the director of the institute said on Monday. 
 
 The FIR states that the girl left the hostel around 7.30pm on Sunday. Lonavla police said she had informed her room mate that she was going out with her friend and would return to the hostel late at night. She told her to eat supper and not wait up for her.
 
 Her room mate waited till 2am on Monday before sleeping. She called the deceased girl on her cellphone after waking up on Monday, but there was no response. 
 
 The Pune rural police have formed teams to track down the suspect. Lonavla police said the bodies had been sent to Sassoon General Hospital for post mortem and the reports were awaited.
 
