NAGPUR: Musical shows are often dedicated to singers of the golden era.   already popular and loved by audience are regularly sung to commemorate their birth or death anniversaries. But this show was different. It was dedicated to the cold winds of the season. 

 ‘Jab chali thandi hawa’ showcased a string of melodies curated from Bollywood’s treasure, dedicated to winter, Nature and its ghats. All of the songs were based on raag Pahadi. Organized by Swarved group, the programme was held in memory of city-based poetess Suchitra Katarkar’s husband Madhukar at Sai Sabhagruha, Shankar Nagar, on Wednesday evening.
 
 “It has been two year since he is gone. He loved Nature and was fond of travelling,” said Katarkar, adding, “The season also made us choose the theme to put together a show.” This was Katarkar’s second show held in her husband’s memory. Katarkar and amateur singers Padmaja Sinha, Ashwini Lule, Vijay Deshpande, Apurva Masodkar, Dr Amol Kulkarni, Rucha Yenurkar and Pratiksha Pattalwar made the event warm and lively.
 
 Writer Shyamkant Kulkarni and poet Anil Shende inaugurated the show. Majority of the songs chosen in the playlist belonged to  ,   and Mohammed Rafi. Songs by Mukesh, Bhupendra and   were also part of the list.
 
 Katarkar began the event with Mangeshkar’s ‘Thandi hawayein lehra ke aaye’ from the film Naujawan (1951). It was followed by the rendition of ‘Yeh raatein yeh mausam’ from Dilli Ka Thug (1958), presented by Yenurkar and Deshpande. Kulkarni sang ‘Thandi hawayein chandni suhani’ (Jhumroo, 1961). ‘Sun ri pawan’ (Anurag, 1973) was rendered by Padmaja Sinha. ‘Yeh vaadiyaan yeh fizaayein,’ sung by Masodkar and ‘Husn pahadon ka’ sung by Pattalwar and Deshpande were other songs among the 21 chosen ones.
 
 Shweta Shelgaonkar was the anchor. Ravi Satfale accompanied on tabla, Gaurav Tanksale on guitar and Pawan Manwatkar on keyboard. Uday Rajkarne played dholak, Mahendra Wakudkar supported through his octopod while Ujjwala Gokarna was on minor, a variant of maraca.
 
 Our take
 
 Mugshots:
 
 Programmes like these are good to listen to and they prove to be more of a stress buster than anything. It was good to see new comers perform with confidence
 
 Dhruti Bedekar | music artiste
 
 When I came to know that the event is something related to season, I was game for it since I was sure my mind will be charged and the soothing effect will remain for next few days
 
 Amit Yenulkar | academician
 
 I am from Delhi and it is pleasantly surprising to see a culture which promotes classic songs and patient listening. The concept was also novel and had a unique set of songs
 
 Alka Kumar | entrepreneur
 
 
