PANAJI: In what could be tagged as a pioneering initiative to provide an environment-friendly car wash service in Goa, two young entrepreneurs have begun a near ‘waterless wash’ facility at a family-owned establishment in Parra.   and   also provide the service outside the mall in Panaji, providing an opportunity for busy office-goers and city dwellers to get their vehicles cleaned while they shop.

 “We have been running the car wash centre at Parra for many years now, and realized we were using 60-80 litres of water per car, which is a cruel waste of the resource. After having researched for almost two years, we decided to move to a cleaner and greener process,” says Fernandes, and adds that in doing so, they save around 3,000 litres of water daily.
 
 The duo came across this method of car washing which is used extensively in middle eastern countries where water is a scarcityand went on to source the raw material (cleaning liquid), which is “completely  .
 
 Braganza says they tested the effectiveness of this liquid on Indian manufactured vehicles to prove it doesn’t scratch the body or damage the paint. 
 
 “We use one litre of water to sparkle an entire carno matter how dirty it isin just 20 minutes. All material used for this service is of high quality, including the cloth,” she says, adding that they have received positive feedback from around 100 happy customers in the first week of introducing the facility at the mall. 
 
 Motorists who drive in with dust and dirt-coated four-wheelers get them treated to a quick exterior wash for an affordable Rs 120. 
 
 While similar   facilities are reported to have been introduced in Mangaluru, Pune, Bengaluru, etc, Fernandes’ and Braganza’s venture could be an inspiration for others in the business in Goa. 
 
 Green entrepreneur Darryl Pereira says, “I think it is a fantastic initiative as the existing car wash services can be a huge nuisance to neighbouring water bodies and settlements. They use dozens of litres of clean water through large hose pipes and the polluted water then travels to drains, sewers and rivers. This service is the need of the hour in Goa.”
 
