NAGPUR:   seem to be well prepared for the civic elections. While development appears to be at the centre of their expectations, issues such as religious divide, garbage burning, none of the above (NOTA), digital city and manifestos of candidates too would be on their mind when they “definitely” go out to vote on February 21.

 “Road is a priority in our area. The incumbent is an outsider. We saw him in our area only once after the last election. We have decided to vote for a local candidate now. Tall promises were made but nothing has been done. Our area must be developed like the rest of the city,” said Rajesh Bisen (22), a cashier, resident of Bharatwada.
 
 Student Chirag Pugalia (18), a resident of MB Town, Pardi, said, “I will vote for the candidate who takes full responsibility of the constituency. If if fail to see such a candidate then I would certainly opt for NOTA. It is a good option for us.” 
 
 Pugalia added, “Creating religious divide and focusing on caste issues won’t have an impact on youths. Rather, attention should be given to humanitarian and social causes. Our area has a big environmental issue of garbage burning. So, we would be gauging the seriousness of candidates in solving these problems.”
 
 While Pugalia has still kept his options open, some have given up hope.
 
 Aeronautical engineering student Aman Mansach (18), a resident of Quetta Colony, said, “I have decided to use NOTA. I feel there is no use of voting for a candidates since promises are never fulfilled. The day I feel a leader is capable of fulfilling at least 20% of our expectations, I will definitely vote for him.”
 
 But, Bachelor of Arts student Mohit Wasnik (22) believes every vote is important. “My enrolment form was rejected last time so I couldn’t vote in   and Assembly polls. One vote can make all the difference between defeat and victory. Development is my issue as roads, water network, sewer lines are still not proper in our area,” said the Nari resident.
 
 Echoing Wasnik’s views, Bachelor of Commerce student Neha Saha (19) said, “It is my constitutional responsibility and I will definitely vote in the election. People who made tall claims but barely worked on them shouldn’t be voted in again. I am tracking the work of aspirants from my area.”
 
 Salesman Shahnawaz Khan, 21, a resident of Bhaldarpura too knows the importance of voting and got himself enrolled after missing two chances to vote. “I am yet to think about the qualities my leader should posses, but I would vote for sure.”
 
 Diploma in Pharmacy student Sanghdip Sahare (18), a resident of Vaishali Nagar, said, “I want a good administrator who would be ready to help people socially and financially.”
 
 Bachelor of Arts student Abhishek Yadav (19), a resident of  , feels NMC elections do not excite him as much as state or national polls, but for local development it has to be taken seriously. “We want good sanitation, civic amenities, primary health centres, and schools. Infrastructure and facilities are missing in our area despite being close to the main city.”
 
 Another BCom student Vaishali Meshram (20), a resident of Katol Road, said, “Earlier, I was not aware of enrolment process. This time, I ensured my name is there in the voters’ list. I feel NMC should make the city digital.” 
 
