VISAKHAPATNAM: Nearly 19,000 square metres of vacant land available with the   will be commercially exploited to give a facelift to the  . The estimated   is Rs 200 crore. 

 This was officially announced on Wednesday at the launching of phase-1 of railway station redevelopment programme by the Union railway ministry. Railway minister Suresh Prabhu formally announced it through a video-conference with the heads of select railway stations including Vizag from New Delhi in the presence of the media.
 
 "We initially selected about 400 stations across the country including Vizag for redevelopment. In the first phase, we will redevelop 23 major railway stations. We expect Rs 1 lakh crore investments for commercial exploitation of the railways' 2,200 acres of prime real estate land at all 400 railway stations for a period of 45 years, " Suresh Prabhu said.
 
 While talking about Vizag station, Waltair divisional railway manager Chandralekha Mukherjee said the 19,000 square metres of vacant land comprises two parcels. One is 15,400 square meters and second one is 3,600 square metres. The available land is encroachment free and land titles are available with the railways.
 
 "The revenue generated from commercial exploitation of the vacant land will be used to develop the Vizag station into a world-class one. The surplus generated will be used to fund modernisation of satellite railway stations. Railways will not require additional funding for development of the station," Mukherjee said.
 
 The invitation document was issued on February 8 and the last date of submission is May 24.
 
 Chandralekha Mukherjee, during an interaction with GVMC commissioner M Hari Narayanan, prior to the video-conference, said the redevelopment project would be undertaken on a public private partnership ( ) model by leveraging the real estate available at the railway stations. The redeveloped stations will improve passenger experience through amenities like digital signage, escalators and elevators, self-ticketing counters, executive lounges, luggage screening machines, walkways, holding areas for passengers, grand and distinctive roofing and flooring, free and paid Wi-Fi apart from the commercial complexes.
 
 
