PUNE:   dominate the newly constituted general body of the  , followed by businesswoman corporators.

 The new house has a total of 162 members of which 82 are women. Of these, over 55% corporators have said that they are homemakers.
 
 The businesswoman corporators are the second highest in number. As many as 29 women corporators — around 35% of total women corporators — have declared their profession as business in their affidavits. The details of businesses have not been disclosed in the affidavits.
 
 The state election commission, while accepting the affidavits and nominations for civic polls, had asked the contestants to submit details of their profession along with other details such as education, criminal cases, details of children and assets of family. The details of 80 women corporators have been posted on the state election commission website.
 
 Apart from being homemakers and running businesses, a handful of women corporators have declared different professions like lawyer, farming, professional consultancy and some have said that they are salaried employees. For instance, a corporator from   ward has declared her profession as a farmer, while three women corporators have said that they are salaried employees.
 
 “Hailing from whichever profession, every elected corporator will now have to work for the betterment of the city and give their 100% to day-to-day functioning of the civic body. Women can perform well in any field, including politics. It will be interesting to see how women corporators perform in the new house. Of course, issues of women will be on the agenda,” said Sunita Wadekar, first-time corporator from   area.
 
 While 55% women have said that they are homemakers, about 28% women — comprising total 82 women corporators — have declared their education as below 10th standard. About 23 women corporators have said that they have not completed their education till SSC and a couple of corporators have said that they have not attended schools.
 
 Of the total 82 women corporators, 7 have completed postgraduation, 16 have studied till HSC while 11 have studied till Class 10. As many as 17 women corporators in the house are graduate. Some women have declared that they have studied till 9th, 7th and 5th standard.
 
 Besides women corporators, the details of 80 male corporators, who registered wins from their respective constituencies, have declared details of profession, age, assets and education in their affidavits.
 
