It just takes a few minutes to have bangs cut in, but a lot longer to grow them out. If only you could make your hair grow faster, but since you have to go through that time-consuming growing stage, here are ways to grow out your bangs without too much frustration.

 
 
 You can simply ask your stylist to help you survive the growing-out process by cutting your bangs the right way. Says Farheen Shaikh, beauty expert, “Ask your hair dresser to cut the corner of the bangs in a rounded way, so that they look like side bangs, instead of having them fall on your face.”
 
 
 
 It’s extremely annoying to have your bangs in the in-between stage (when they’re not short nor have they grown out). When they start to get into your eyes, it’s really not easy to live with them for long. Pin them down with the headband or hair clips and prevent them from falling on your eyes. 
 
 
 
 You can either choose to iron out your bangs or tong them if you don’t like the style anymore. Says Shaikh, “Use a narrow hair straightener to work on them easily. Not only will they look neater, but they will also look long and merge easily with your normal hair.”
 
 
 
 One of the best ways to ensure that your bangs don’t fall on your face or look weird is by setting them with a styling gel or a hold spray.
 
 
 
 This may sound odd, but if you are trying to grow out your bangs, get them trimmed regularly. You can ask your stylist for help — he or she can assist in blending them as they grow. They will also look neat because split and flyway ends can make your bangs look messy.
 
 
 
 During the day, if you wish to leave your hair open, you must half-tie it around the crown. A new   is always visible when you keep your hair semi-tied. 
 Before you hit the sack, make sure that you tie your hair up in a bun or a braid. This will prevent your hair from rubbing against the pillow and breaking off.
 Use a leave-in serum so that the texture of your hair remains soft. In case you do not wish to apply a serum, oil your hair at least twice a week for best results. 
 Apply a hair mask which comprises henna, egg white, yogurt and hibiscus so that the quality of your hair remains intact. Also, do not use any chemical-based styling product on your hair. 
 
