TNN

 Mumbai: In a global first,   has chosen India to launch its new relationship management platform that enables customers engage with executives and experts through chat, audio and video calls within the Citi mobile app.
 
 The new platform, “hello”, allows clients to converse with product experts, service relationship managers and branch managers, perform real-time and secure transactions, and upload documents. The conversation, which will be stored on the cloud, will also act as a check against mis-selling. Besides recording the interaction, the application enables the customer to conclude the transaction online without having to sign any documents or application forms. Customers can buy, sell or redeem mutual funds while on chat.
 
 Citi has around 500 relationship managers who engage with 40 to 50 clients a month, resulting in an average 15 monthly transactions. Citi expects customer engagement to increase three times, resulting in doubling of transactions from the current average of 15. The service is available to Citigold customers — rich clients who have a net relationship value (NRV) of Rs 50 lakh, including money in accounts, investments, insurance, credit cards and mortgages. Over a third of the clients (35%) actively use mobile  .
 
 According to Kartik Kaushik, country business manager (global consumer bank), Citi India, this will not result in relationship management getting commoditised, as the customer will be connecting with her   and other experts and not generic customer service executives. “It is personalised delivery of services in a secure environment at the place and time of the customer’s choice,” he added.
 
 Anand Selvakesari, Citi’s Asia-Pacific head (global consumer banking), said, “There has been a significant increase in wealth creation over the last decade across Asia, including India. At the same time, consumer expectations are rapidly being shaped by digitisation trends, leading to digital channels becoming an integral part of daily lives. This presents us with a significant opportunity to engage with our Citigold clients, leveraging the power of the digital world, in a way that has never been done before.”
 
 According to Kaushik, social media has redefined the way people engage personally and professionally, and clients expect their banks to provide a similar experience. “They also believe that trust and human connect are as critical to wealth-related discussions, as are security and confidentiality,” he said. The bank had recently launched voice biometrics authentication, e-chat on   Online, wallet integration on digital platforms and Snapshot on Citi Mobile.
 
 
