BENGALURU: The government is all set to amend the building bylaws in Karnataka to ensure setting up of charging points for  .

 The cabinet on Wednesday approved the new electric vehicle policy. The amendments will make it mandatory to have charging points in all  , including  . “We're looking at easing the pressure on conventional vehicles and considering alternative modes of transportation,“ said law minister  . As part of its plan to set up requisite infrastructure for electric vehicles, charging points for electric vehicles will be made mandatory in IT parks, SEZs, shopping malls, commercial buildings as well as residential apartments.
 
 The government may introduce the amendment for projects which come up in the future rather than have the clause implemented retrospectively .
 
 The government has also floated a Special Purpose Vehicle involving the BBMP, BMTC, Bescom, KREDL, KIADB and other related agencies to create charging infrastructure in public spaces across Bengaluru city.
 
 The government is also looking at making the vehicles cheaper by introducing a slew of attractive incentives and concessions in line with the   of 2014-19.
 
 According to sources, the commerce and industries department was seeking a 100% re laxation on stamp duty for manufacturers to set up shop in the state.
 
 However, the finance department has vetoed the proposal and agreed to provide a 50% relaxation in stamp duties after's chief minister and finance minister Siddaramaiah intervention.
 
 Earlier in the day, law minister T B Jayachandra said the cabinet was convinced by the industries department proposal of the new policy which spoke of reducing the environmental burden in the state by encouraging electric vehicles.
 
 “The state government has decided to approve a policy which is also supported by the government of India,“ said law minister T B Jayachandra.
 
 The industries department has set an ambitious target of becoming the hub of electric vehicles manufacturers and attract investments of close to Rs 31,000 crore. It's also looking at creating employment opportunities in the field for no less than 55,000 people.
 
