CUTTACK: For better management of  , the   (CMC) has started installing   (GPS) devices in the vehicles used for garbage collection.

 In first phase, the CMC has installed GPS devices in 17 of its 60 tippers used in collection of garbage. In phase wise manner, the civic body will equip all its vehicles with GPS devices. The CMC has also entered into a pact with BSNL for introduction of the GPS based vehicle tracking system. The civic body will have to pay Rs 1500 per month to BSNL for the facility.
 
 CMC officials have claimed that the initiative is yielding desired results and helping in monitoring of solid waste in a better way. "The performance of the vehicles, distance covered in a day and trips made per day are getting recorded. Sanitary officers by sitting in the office are easily able to track the vehicles which are standing idle at any location without doing their job,” said CMC commissioner,  . 
 
 Officials claimed that they are immediately taking action against the vehicles which are not collecting garbage properly. Besides, the system has also helped them in checking unnecessary use of vehicle and wastage of fuel. "We have recorded all data like the route followed by the vehicles and daily kilometres covered by each of the vehicles for collecting waste and dumping it at the site. The GPS helps us to track any deviation in the route," said a CMC official. The CMC has received funds under   for the project.
 
 Besides, the CMC is also planning to launch a mobile application system soon, which will help it to keep tab on the quality of work of the sanitary employees. CMC officials said staff engaged in lifting garbage from dustbins and garbage points will be provided mobile phones. They will have to click photos of the site before and after lifting the garbage and send the photos to the supervisor. “The photos will display real time and date so we can easily keep a tab on quality of work done by our staff," said Das.
 
 CMC officials claimed that they have plans to start the mobile facility within a month. CMC has always received widespread criticisms for poor sanitation condition of the city. Officials are hopeful that the change will bring improvement in sanitation and cleanliness of the city.
 
