HALDIA: Chief minister   on Monday cautioned her partymen that she would not tolerate any disturbance in industrial projects. She was inaugurating the country’s first punch-grid technology battery factory in Haldia set up by   for an investment of Rs 700 crore. The battery giant will manufacture the state-of-the-art product with technical collaboration of East Penn Manufacturing Company of the US. Mamata also inaugurated the   park in Haldia.

 The chief minister urged the district administration, MLAs and MPs to set aside cheap vested interest and work for betterment of the industrial climate of Bengal. “Co-operate with the industry. Don’t disturb industry for cheap politics. Earlier, it was a phenomenon. Now the situation has changed. Industry and ancillary industries are an asset for new employment. Peace should be maintained. Management and local people should have good understanding,” she said. 
 
 Just a year ago during the inauguration of the cement plant of JSW group in Salboni, Mamata had asked panchayat and district administration and leaders to co-operate with the Jindals and not to create pressure for local employment during the implementation of the project. Besides, asking administration to help industry, the CM also had a word of caution for the industry as well. “We need industry for generating employment but at the same time we should not be ditched or duped by anbody,” she added.
 
 The managing director and CEO of   Gautam Chatterjee appreciated the CM’s industry-friendly approach by saying the company is celebrating the changed industrial climate in Haldia and in the state as a whole. According to him, Exide has 11 factories in India but it still chose Haldia for its expansion because productivity in the Haldia plan is the highest. “We took the decision two years ago. There is a stability and work culture in Haldia and the workers too are progressive,” he added. Incidentally, there are 2,000 workers at the Haldia plant of the company. 
 
 After the expansion, production capacity in Haldia would go up from 2.3 million units to 3.5 million units annually.
 
 Continuing her tirade against demonetisation and Prime Minister  , Mamata said: “Let us save the country from dictatorship. I will continue to fight for people unless people get relief.”
 
