Indians popped more anti-depressants than ever before in 2016, indicating perhaps that they are now more open to the idea of seeking help for   problems.
Around 10.6 lakh more prescriptions for anti-depressants were written in 2016 than in 2015, shows data collated by health information agencies.While 3.35 crore prescriptions (for new patients) were written in 2015, doctors wrote 3.46 crore new prescriptions in 2016.
 
 In fact, the number of prescriptions written out only by psychiatrists in 2016 represented a 14% increase from the previous year. Psychiatrists treat patients with major depressive disorders while doctors hailing from multiple specialties treat patients with mild   or those suffering from diseaserelated depression.
 
 Depression, though widely spread in India, is rarely given importance in the public health system, which is burdened by infectious diseases such as tuberculosis and dengue as well as non-communicable diseases such as diabetes and hypertension. In October 2016, the National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences ( ) in Bengaluru released a mental health survey that said one in every 20 Indians suffered from some form of depression. The prevalence of depression across the world has increased to such an extent that it's the theme for the  's World Health Day on April 7.
 
 When contacted, NIMHANS director Dr B N Gangadhar said the increase in the number of prescriptions could also be an indication of the increasing number of psychiatrists in India. “There is no doubt that people are more open than before to seek help for depression, but a 14% rise in prescriptions could also mean there are more psychiatrists today than before,“ Dr Gangadhar said, adding that roughly 360 new psychiatrists graduate annually .
 
 Mumbai-based psychiatrist Dr Harish Shetty said there has been a tremendous increase in awareness about mental health. “There is a 100% increase in the number of patients coming to psychiatrists in the last couple of years,“ he said, adding that the increase could be the tip of the iceberg.
 
 Goa-based Dr  , who is attached to the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, said anti-depressants have low penetration in India. “If there is an increase, it is not surprising as more people seek help these days. This doesn't mean there is an increase in the incidence of depression, but there is an increase in awareness,“ he said.
 
