Pune: The new academic year is set to begin in two months, and many   have one major complaint   insist they buy   items, books and uniforms from the institute or particular vendors.

 This is despite a state government notification telling schools to stop this practice. 
 
 Parents complain that most schools are selling uniforms, books and stationery at more than double the price. Although schools do not mention it is mandatory, they adopt such a way of doing things that parents are left with no choice. 
 
 Some schools, for example, prescribe non-standard note books that are not available in the market. Parents have to pay anywhere between Rs 5,000 and Rs 20,000 for various items depending on the school. The institutes never give an official receipt or invoice for these transactions either and the deal is in cash, parents said.
 
 The   has said that schools fleece parents through different means. Its president Jayant Jain said, “Schools sell customised materials of unknown or their own brand, which are not available in the market. Besides, the material supplied by schools is inferior and doesn’t last more than 6-8 months.”
 
 Rakesh Chavan, member of a group of parents who have raised this issue with the deputy director of education in Pune, said, “Schools schedule the open day during the first week of April. On this day, the school distributes stationery, the cost of which is easily Rs 15,000.”
 
 Another parent Snehal Mandhare said besides selling stationery, schools are involved in commercial activities and loot parents with the excuse of annual day events and picnics. She said that schools make parents shell out more than Rs 1,000 for annual day events’ costumes though the child spens only a few minutes on stage. 
 
 Jyotsna Mishra, principal of  , said, “We never force parents to buy from the school itself. It is parents’ choice. We have just recommended vendors so that uniformity is maintained.”
 
  principal Arti Chanara said, “We have not made it mandatory for parents to buy from school. In fact, parents suggest that we have all vendors at school for their convenience so they get everything under one roof.”
 
 Deputy director of education Dinkar Temkar said parents are free to buy from wherever they want and they should complaint to the deputy director’s office about such violations.
 
 
