KOLKATA: Chief minister   may train guns at  , but in practice Bengal has to comply with the central format when it comes to rural development schemes. Else, Bengal being the highest recipient of Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme ( ) Act money, cannot avail the maximum despite an increase in the central allocation on this count. 

 The reason being 30% of the enrolled workers under the scheme are yet to get their   linked to their bank and post office accounts.With finance minister Arun Jaitley emphasising on direct cash transfers to individual accounts, the state government can hardly ignore the seeding.
 
 Currently, about 80% of the total 144.84 lakh workers under the scheme have got their Aadhaar numbers. Of them, 24% are yet to link their Aadhaar numbers to their bank accounts. “We are trying our best to get it done. But I fear we cannot take full advantage of the increased MGNREGS corpus this year,“ said state panchayat minister Subrata Mukherjee. 
 
 However, there are several issues beyond this primary criterion.The Aadhaar-based payment system also wants the nodal agencies to take photographs of the work done and upload it in the system to prevent leakage of funds. In case of some states, muster rolls for MGNREGS work have been prepared by repeating the same job time and again -for instance, clearing a pond twice. The online system aims at preventing such duplication. From now on, release of funds will be done after an examination of the work completed. But Bengal doesn't have an impressive record in this area.
 
 While keeping a record of the assets created, the Centre, during a NITI Aayog meeting, insisted the states to use a portion of the MGNREGS funds for the development of skills of the wage earners and also for self-employment (MGNREGA LIFE). The purpose is to get these casual workers employed in a manner where they do not have to depend on the scheme. Under the Centre's strict monitoring, work starting from preparing the muster rolls to debiting money in individual bank accounts will be done by state officials instead of panchayat members. Even the integrated action programme for backward districts and blocks compiling a host of national schemes have been planned in a similar way. The Centre has alre ady disbursed Rs 180 crore in this manner in pilot projects run in five states -Rajasthan, Karnataka, Tripura, Odisha and Gujarat.
 
 Even the finance minister's Rs 20,000 crore National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (Nabard) corpus for district co-operative banks will not come to the state at once. “It is accessing funds from bank.The state finance department has to apply for the fund that will then go to departments,“ the panchayat minister said.Unlike earlier, the state has to shell out more money to avail the central fund after the Modi government made amends to the 90:10 Centre-state fund sharing mechanism to 60:40 in 2016.
 
 Moreover, the Centre has set certain parameters under heads -infrastructure, access to services, economic development and diversification -to measure the performance of respective gram panchayats.The parameters under infrastructure include percentage of all-weather roads, internet connectivity , households having access to safe drinking water, electricity for at least 12 hours, LPG gas and irrigated land.The plan is to evaluate the panchayat's performance and make the resources available.
 
