MUMBAI: Months before the Centre called the   ( ) affidavit in the SC “misogynist” for saying that men are superior to women and therefore enjoy the right to end marriage irrevocably through  , an influential Muslim body had objected to this stand by the board.

 All India Muslim Majlis-e-Mushawarat, an umbrella body of 14 Muslim organisations, had slammed the AIMPLB for not mentioning in its affidavit the methods of talaq practiced by the Ahle Hadees and Jafri (Shia) sects, who form two major subsets within the community. 
 
 The two sects consider talaq uttered thrice in one sitting as one talaq and allow the process of reconciliation and mediation between the couple as mandated by the Quran.
 
 The Mushawarat pointed out that the board seems to be representing only the Hanafi school of thought.
 
 In its letter of October 4, 2016 to AIMPLB chief Maulana Syed Rabe Nadvi, Mushawarat criticised the board’s legal stand that men and women do not have equal rights, saying it would only “strengthen the allegations that Islam considers women inferior to men” and fuel Islam bashing.
 
 Mushawarat said the board was concealing the fact that sects like Ahle Hadees and Jafri (Shia) don’t allow triple talaq and instead insist on reconciliation and mediation.
 
 “The board is not a platform of just one sect (of Muslims), but it also has people belonging to Ahle Hadees and Jafri sects. Therefore, it is not proper for the board to represent just Hanafi and Sunni sects in the court,” the letter said.
 
 “The board hasn’t responded to the two letters we had sent to it, raising our objections to some loopholes in its affidavit in the SC. It has not presented the Muslim case very strongly,” said Mushawarat’s president Naved Hamid.
 
 Mushawarat represents several leading Muslim bodies like   and Jamiatul Ulema-e-Hind.
 
 The Centre has expressed dismay over the board’s submission that men are more likely to “control emotions” and not take “hasty decisions.” It has also sought an apology from the board.
 
