GANDHINAGAR: The   External Assistance Directorate has rejected Gujarat government's request for funds for the   (SAUNI) on technical grounds, questioning the feasibility of the project. 

 With the Centre rejecting Gujarat's request, the state government has decided to fund the project entirely from its own resources.
 
 It may be mentioned that SAUNI is a pet project of  . The PM had inaugurated the first phase of SAUNI at Aji-3 dam near Rajkot on August 30, 2016. Again, on April 17 this year, Modi dedicated to the nation Phase-1 (Link 2) of SAUNI project at Botad. Here, he also laid the foundation stone of Phase 2 (Link 2) of the project. SAUNI is an ambitious plan to fill 115 reservoirs in water-scarce Saurashtra with waters of overflowing Narmada.
 
 The first estimate of the total cost of the project was Rs 10,000 crore. On the basis of this estimate, the state government had demanded Rs 6,399 crore under the central government's Accelerated Irrigation Benefits Programme (AIPB) scheme.
 
 The Gujarat government has now revised the estimated cost to Rs 18,000 crore. Sources in the state government said that the technical authority of Central Water Commission (CWC) had given a negative opinion about the feasibility of the SAUNI project. The central government has rejected the detailed project report (DPR) submitted by the Gujarat government apparently because it lacks key details related to technical feasibility, an official said.
 
 Official documents available with TOI indicate that the central government had sought current crop pattern and future projects, and also total water requirement at 50% dependability.
 
 In its letter, the CWC (Central Water Commission) has noted that surplus water available du ring monsoon is proposed to be utilised from Saurashtra branch canal and its sub-branches.
 
 “The utilizable quantum of water available to the extent of 1 MAF (million acre feet) over and above 9 MAF allocated to Gujarat state, both under present condition of utilization as well as under condition when Madhya Pradesh starts utilising its full share (and also its dependability) needs to be incorporated in the DPR,'' the letter says.
 
 The CWC also questioned the water storage calculation for SAUNI project.
 
 The commissions says that in the deficit storage study of the reservoirs, the reservoir deficit has been estimated from gross storage capacity of reservoir instead of their live storage capacity . This needs to be corrected to estimate actual deficit in utilizable water from different reservoirs.
 
 The Centre has also expressed concern about the Gujarat government's failure to consult   (NCA) and other concerned states (Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Maharashtra).
 
 “Concurrence of concerned states on inter-state aspectwater allocation through NCA may be obtained and incorporated in the DPR,'' the CWC letter states.
 
 The Centre has also suggested that the Gujarat government check duplication of stretches works proposed under the present scheme with any ongoing scheme.
 
 M K Jadav, secretary, water resources department said that the central government had rejected the state's demand for funds “The Centre's procedure for approving funds for such projects takes lot of time. Hence, the state government has now decided to fund it from its own resources,'' Jadav said.
 
