NAGPUR: The   (IWWA) was filled with people who sat on the carpet, men and women separated on two sides, like in a satsang. The assembly was listening to a video being played on the white screen on stage. On a closer look, it emerged that two inter-caste marriages were being conducted through a seventeen-minute video of Rampal maharaj,  , as he recited the shlokas.

 The two couples, dressed simplistically, sat on stage facing the screen. There was no grandeur in sight — no decorations, no pandit, no mahurat, no crackers, none of the elaborate rituals and no food. The wedding was between Bhandara-resident Anurupa Pande and Rajasthan-resident Nutan Prakash. Pande belongs to harijan community, while Prakash is a part of the Mali community. Sonu Uike from Gondwana and   from Madhya Pradesh also got married at the same time. Uike is a gond and Dhok is a part of Dhangars. The couples then proceeded towards the court for nuptial registration. Mohan Suthar, coordinator of the trust in Nagpur, claims that this wedding is the first-of-its-kind to take place not just in Nagpur, but entire Maharashtra.
 
 “17 such weddings have already taken place in Pakistan, over 300 in Haryana, the headquarters of the trust, and also in Delhi and Rajasthan. The idea is to refrain from giving or taking dowry, and ultimately fighting dowry deaths. Some parents worry when they have daughters. But by promoting such weddings, we are also fighting against gender discrimination, says Suthar. Whenever one talks of marriage, two ideas reign supreme — money and status. This makes people take loans, says Pramod Soni, a member. “We try to take both these things out of the equation. Here in the trust, we are all equal. There was no show-off during Bramhaji and Vishnuji’s time. Our practices are also in line with what Prime Minister Modi has been preaching. This place is clean and the surrounding has been kept clean,” adds Soni.
 
 Started in 1994 in Haryana, the trust has been functioning in Nagpur since 2014, and gathers for a videotaped satsang of their guru every alternate Sunday at IWWA premises.
 
 
