NAVI MUMBAI: Failure to provide adequate cop cover and absence of special forces to take action against illegal structures are affecting demolition drives, said civic encroachment department officials. In fact, the absence of a dedicated force to look into complaints registered against illegal constructions is slowing down the drives.

 However, the high court directive last week asking police to provide manpower as and when required to the various planning bodies till the special police force is raised has boosted NMMC’s resolve to raze such illegal structures. A month-long schedule has been prepared for which police assistance has been sought. 
 
 As per the schedule, demolition drive will resume from January 30 and letters have been issued to the police department seeking protection. “Out of 303 illegal constructions, only 39 were removed last year. We hope to raze at least 7 such constructions by February 20,” he added. 
 
 “In the absence of cop cover, it is not possible to undertakesuch drives. Of the 10-odd letters sent by ward offices or the headquarters to the police, only 2 or 3 received positive response. But now we are hopeful of removing more encroachments,” said a senior civic official. 
 
 NMMC is also upbeat on being provided with an exclusive special police force. In 2015, state government had sanctioned 106 police forces, of these 78 was meant for encroachment protection and 28 were separate cells for investigation purposes.
 
 “This is yet to be provided but now since the court has given four months to implement a cabinet decision to raise a special force of police officers, we are positive of development in this regard too,” added the official.
 
 Responding to two public interest litigations from the city and the affidavit filed by NMMC to the court last week, the latter came down heavily on the state government over its inability to come with a special police force to tackle the menace. 
 
 The civic body stated in its affidavit that   was sought 93 times for razing illegal buildings in 2016 (see box). Out of which, cop support was given only 21 times.
 
 
