BEIJING: China sees the   crisis in   as an opportunity to strengthen its relations with Yangon in the face of competition from India and western countries for business contracts in the country, analysts said.

 China has endorsed the crackdown on the persecuted Rohingyas by security forces in Myanmar. “The stance of China regarding the terrorist attacks in   is clear, it is just an internal affair,” Chinese ambassador in Myannmar, Hong Liang, said. “The counter-attacks of Myanmar security forces against extremist terrorists and the government’s undertakings to provide assistance to the people are strongly welcomed,” he said.
 
 India on Thursday announced it will send food and medical assistance to help Bangladesh support vast numbers of Rohingya refugees who have crossed over from the border in Myanmar. But India, like China, has not specifically asked for a halt to the crackdown on the fleeing refugees.
 
 Analysts said India cannot avoid taking a strong stand on a humanitarian cause if it wants to be taken seriously as a candidate for a seat in the United Nations Security Council.
 
 “India has more moral authority than China to comment on the Rohingya crisis,” Richard  , senior adviser in US-India relations at the Center for Strategic and International Studies told TOI. “Times like these offer the best gauge of whether India is truly ready to become a recognized regional power, and will influence issues such as garnering support for India’s bid to join the United Nations Security Council,” he said.
 
 It is unlikely that India or China would open their doors to allow Rohingya Muslim refugees to enter owing to real or perceived security concerns. At the same time, both India and China are “competing for Myanmar’s attention,” Rossow, who is also Wadhwani Chair in US-India Policy Studies at the CSIS, said.
 
 The Chinese government backed Global Times in Beijing has come out in defense of Myanmar's State Counselor  , who has been widely criticized for failing to stop the ethnic cleansing in her country, and not even speaking up against the bloodshed.
 
 “She has to take pragmatic measures or even make compromises in face of development conundrums and ethnic issues, rather than make it a priority to protect her image,” it said in a commentary.
 
