HYDERABAD: Those in Hyderabad are increasingly turning to online   delivery platforms to enjoy a meal in the comfort of their homes or offices. Latest figures available with an online food tech startup shows how loyal customers in Hyderabad order food on the platform more than 20 times in a month.

 Hyderabad, officials of the startup say, is a key location since they have tied up with more than 2,000 restaurants one of the biggest number across six metros.
 
 “Hyderabad is a key market for us. We have more than 2,000 restaurants on board with us. Interestingly, many of our partner restaurants have also managed to grow their business because of the increased visibility they get through food delivery apps,” said Srivats T S, vice-president of marketing with Bengaluru-based startup  , which conducted the food consumption survey across metros.
 
 Right from the IT hub to the bustling streets of  , food delivery apps have now expanded to cover more areas in the city.
 
 “Presently, even those who are not so tech-savvy are seen ordering food through mobile apps. These food delivery platforms, mostly big players such as Swiggy and Foodpanda have established a network of delivery persons. However, while the big players are seen surviving, it is very difficult for others to become successful in the food tech space, owing to the capital intensive nature of the operations involved. This is why several food technology firms such as TinyOwl have either shut shop or cut down operations in the past two years,” said  , managing director of Hyderabad-based investor group 50K Ventures.
 
 While startups working in the food tech space were badly hit by the funding slowdown in 2015, those working on an only-delivery model have been worst hit, say startup founders.
 
  “For brick and mortar restaurants, tie-ups with food delivery platforms is a source of additional revenue. For startups working on an only-delivery model, customer loyalty and revenues have been dwindling since the funding slowdown, in mid-2015. This is why we are continuously pivoting and decided to open a few physical outlets in cities as well. We are also tapping into the budget hotel segment by providing F&B services to them,” said  , CEO and founder of Hyderabad-based Hello Curry. 
 
 Even as home-grown food startups are seen burning cash, global ride-hailing platform Uber has announced that it will soon venture into the food delivery market in India with UberEATs an on-demand food delivery app. 
 
