MUMBAI: Like his name, New Zealand U-17 team coach   is a man who likes to make hay while the sun shines. So it was no surprise to see the coach up and ready early on Saturday, just a little more than 12 hours after his team landed in the city.

 “We have no time to waste. We have to get acclimatised to the conditions fast. That's our biggest challenge, along with playing against quality sides. Since New Zealand is located quite far for Europe, we haven't travelled much because of the expense and so we have had very little game time,” he told TOI on Saturday.
 
 Weather is definitely something they'll struggle to get used to. It is 14 degrees Celcius in Auckland. In Andheri, where the team is staying, it's just over 30 degrees in the evening. During their practice session in the evening, the boys lasted just 15 minutes before asking for a drinks break. The coach isn't going to give them any leeway though.
 
 “We've planned a training session every day, and on some days, we'll train twice. We're here to challenge the biggest names in football,” Hay, who represented the senior team on 35 occasions, said.
 
 The only thing not challenging for them is the food, as Hay points out. “The boys are really open to trying new stuff. Yes, we do follow a plan, but won't hesitate to include Indian foods in our diet,” he said.
 
 New Zealand will open their World Cup campaign against Turkey on October 6 before meeting South American powerhouse Paraguay and then complete Group B against African champions Mali in the October 6-28 tournament. Their road to the World Cup wasn't really “challenging” according to Hay (they thrashed   7-0 in the 2017 OFC Championship final), who adds that it's not necessarily positive.
 
 Realising the need to face quality opponents, Hay gladly agreed to play friendlies in Mumbai against two powerhouses -Brazil (on September 28) and England (October 1). Ironically, it was Brazil who ousted them in the last edition held in Chile in 2015.
 
 “We probably earned respect from them (Brazil) in Chile. They won because of a 95th minute penalty. Who better than Brazil to prepare for the World Cup? They're going to offer us a really strong challenge. We're going to treat the friendly like a tournament. We don't get teams like this to play often. They're really going to prepare us for big, big games,” Hay said.
 
 He's been with the group of boys since 2015, so what more is he looking to prepare these boys for? “All you can do is to give them a feel of what the tournament is going to be like. We have a side that has a lot of character. But the players shouldn't be intimidated,” Hay, who played for Leeds United, said.
 
