VISAKHAPATNAM: District collector Pravin Kumar visited   on Tuesday and instructed officials to clear the litter and plan development works.

 Rushikonda Beach development works have been going on for the past two years and are still incomplete. The approach road to the spot from the main   near   resorts is broken, full of potholes and littered with garbage. Vehicles are haphazardly parked. Coconut shells, corn cobs, eatables, plastic bottles are all littered around forming an eyesore.
 
 Officials of   (APTDC) said the estimated cost of developing   is Rs 8 crore of which already around Rs 2 crore has been spent. The APTDC has planned lawns, fancy plantation, amenities such as food court, stalls, open air theatre, resting places, changing rooms and parking lot on the beach.
 
 Considered one of the most popular and beautiful beaches 12 kilometres from Vizag city, Rushikonda attracts foreign tourists due to the availability of surfing or wave-riding facilities. Though APTDC has provided speed boats and jet-ski, these occasionally stop functioning due to technical snags.
 
 Despite merger of Bheemili municipality with GVMC, the beach still lacks proper restroom facilities and is also littered at places. It has been over two years and the road expansion work at Bheemili is still not complete. The beach development works was halted due to the road expansion works. 
 
 During his tour of Rushikonda Beach, Pravin Kumar instructed tourism officials to maintain the beach round the clock, remove the debris and keep the surroundings litter-free and attractive. He also suggested developing a pit-wall over the beach for public to sit out. He asked tourism officials to prepare an action plan for beach development for discussion in the tourism promotion committee meeting. The collector also instructed the marine police to keep a vigil on the vendors and eateries doing business on the beach. Meanwhile, in the course of his visit, the collector also inaugurated an Anganwadi building worth Rs 10 lakh at Kancherupalem in Bheemili mandal.
 
