THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Lack of   is a major reason for   in many roads in the corporation limit. Motorists and pedestrians face problems in the recently-widened   stretch which does not have enough street lights.

 The  , which is being developed by the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI), also faces the same problem, as street lights along the entire stretch is not part of the plan. The NHAI plans street lights only at junctions and bridges. Considering this the city corporation is considering a proposal from NHAI to install street lights on the entire stretch.
 
 When contacted, mayor V K Prasanth said NHAI had submitted a proposal to install street lights in the stretch. “We are seriously considering the proposal,” he said.
 
 Director of National Transportation, Planning and Research Centre (Natpac) B Sreedevi said that the street lights must be part of every road widening project. “The accidents in Karamana-Pravachambalam stretch proves that lack of street lights is a major road safety issue. There must be street lights on the entire stretch. All projects, whether NH or not, must include installation of street lights,” she said.
 
 Shagin T V, an employee of Technopark, said that the techies faced a lot of problems due to the absence of street lights on the Kazhakkoottam-Mukkola road. “We had a feeling that the NHAI would install street lights after completing the construction. There must be enough lighting at least in the   stretch, which is a heavily built up area. We hope that the authorities could not ignore the stretch, especially as it is turning into a major corridor,” Shagin said.
 
 Already, techies had complained about absence of streetlights, especially in front of Infosys and UST campuses. The stretch had witnessed accidents due to lack of streetlights.
 
 Incidentally, the lack of streetlights is not the only road safety issue in the stretch. The 45 m-wide stretch also lacks footpaths. There will be foot over bridges only in five locations in the 26.7km road. The construction of second phase of works is progressing in Mukkola-Karode stretch.
 
 
