NEW DELHI: The   may desist from moving the   against Delhi HC’s order asking it not to do away with moderation of marks, even as the HRD ministry again instructed the board on Thursday to release Class XII results “on time”. 

 The ministry and   officials had a second round of meeting with the legal counsel on Thursday evening, where a view emerged that moving the apex court may be counter-productive and also delay results if SC refuses to intervene. Meanwhile, uncertainty continues on the date of the results as CBSE remained mum on the matter. 
 
 After the Delhi HC’s order, HRD minister   had met the secretary of school education and the CBSE chairperson on Wednesday morning, where it was decided that legal opinion should be sought on the order. 
 
 
 
 “Based on the legal opinion received by the ministry (on Wednesday), it was decided that the board will not move the court. It has also been decided that moderation will be done based on the rules set (in the examination by laws of CBSE). However, there will not be ‘artificial’ inflation of marks,” said a senior HRD official. 
 
 Sources said CBSE is likely to stick to its five-point moderation policy. On the backfoot ever since the HC restrained it from scrapping the moderation of marks policy for this year, CBSE and the government again sought legal opinion on Thursday and consulted additional solicitor general   for a way forward, since he had represented the board in court. 
 
 Sources told TOI that after studying the HC order, government’s legal advisors, including ASG Jain, pointed out that there are no adverse comments by the court on the policy decision to scrap moderation/spiking of marks.
 
 It is only the timing of the move which had left HC worried about the future of children who took the Class X and XII board exam in the belief they will benefit from moderation in the same manner as previous batches. Earlier in the day, Javadekar said there will be no delay in the results.
 
 
 
 However, there is no clarity on the exact date when Class XII results will be declared. Despite text messages and phone calls,  , chairperson, CBSE, did not to queries. 
 
 CBSE’s silence is also keeping many other education boards on tenterhooks and they have also deferred the announcement of their results till there is more clarity on the moderation issue. The Uttar Pradesh board, it is learnt, may wait till the first week of June to see whether CBSE moderate marks. In the past two years, the state board had announced its results in the third week of May. 
 
 Class XII results of the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations are also expected to be declared only after CBSE’s results. “We will announce the dates once we are ready with the results. It’s getting a bit delayed as we are getting the data,” said Gerry Arathoon, CEO of CISCE.
 
