MUMBAI: Authorities at   came under fire for marking serial numbers on the foreheads of the   stampede victims and putting up their photos on a flex board for public display. The hospital claimed the measure was taken to "avoid chaos" and to "expedite the process of identification" but many on social media called the method insensitive. On Friday, five men from the Shiv Sena walked into the hospital mortuary and tried to scribble a number on the forehead of its forensic head to protest the measure.

 This has turned the spotlight on the guidelines for identification of dead bodies in mass tragedies. Advocate Vinay Rathi--who specialises in public causes--points out that the National Disaster Management's Cell's guidelines which apply to hospitals and medical centres all over India prescribes that dead bodies should be treated with due respect. While he feels the hospital may have had its reasons for the measure, Rathi says the photos of the victims should not have carried the serial numbers. "Typically, the numbers are written on a tag around the big toe, so that the relatives do not have see the entire body to identify," says Rathi.
 
  Dr Sandeep Gore, head of emergency medicine at a pri vate hospital, says such cases present a challenge "as resources are limited and burden is quite high. "In such cases, we generate a Unique Identification Number for the patients based on registration such as `Unknown 1', `Unknown 2' and these are then marked on bands tied around the patients' wrists," says Gore.
 
 Advocate Jamshed Mistry, who has appeared in many cases related to disaster management, feels the onus of identification should not rest on the hospital alone. "In coordination with other agencies, the medical authorities should be able to carry out proper identification procedure. I can understand numbering if the body is mutilated. But if there are office goers among the victims, they must be carrying some identification on them, at least the men, if not the women," says Mistry .
 
 "There should be a disaster management cell present in places such as railway stations and schools," says a doctor, who suggests alternatives for identification such as asking relatives to describe the belongings, distinguishing marks and clothes of victims so that they can then go inside the mortuary and identify the specific body .
 
 "We need to be more sensitive, especially to the relatives," says psychotherapist Seema Hingorrany . "The news itself is a very big jolt for them and then they must identify victims in that state," says Hingorrany , who feels the presence of trauma experts on the scene and proper identification guidelines such as an information counter would help in such cases.
 
