CHANDIGARH: Residents of   have complained about air and noise pollution because of re-starting of crushers adjoining national highway 22 on PanchkulaShimla road and   in  .

 One of the oldest   of Panchkula districts, around 2,000 families are living in the enclave. A majority of residents are senior citizens, including military veterans, judges and other high-ranking retired of ficers. Crushers were closed since 2011 and started recently.
 
 Around 20,000 people living in Amravati, DLF area, Chandimandir, Burj Kotia, Jallaha and Surajpur village are stated to be affected from these crushers.
 
 As per the complaint given to Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB), Amravati Enclave Residents Welfare Association (AERWA) said around 44   have recently started crushing stones because of which people of the area are suffering from air and noise pollution and chronic diseases like asthma is spreading.
 
 The complaint has also mentioned the report of Dr Rameshwar Chander, medical superintendent of the polyclinic located inside the enclave, stating that inhaling of dust particles from these crushers is causing further respiratory diseases among people living in the area. “Chronic bronchitis and airway obstruction is a result of long term exposure to these air pollutants that also cause allergenic alveolitis in young children. Exposures to dust can lower lung respiration resulting in infections like tuberculosis. Noise caused by the crushers affects humans slowly and can finally cause noise-induced hearing loss and permanent deafness,“ the report has mentioned.
 
 The school principal located inside the enclave had also complained that dust particles from crushers are causing respiratory problems among children.
 
 Report of the doctor as well as the complaint of the school principal is attached with the complaint of the association. Besides this, two senior residents Lt Gen B S Jaswal (retd), former Army commander (Northern Command), and Justice Baldev Singh (retd), former high court judge, had also complained about the noise and air pollution caused by crushers, especially during the night time.
 
 Shamsher Sharma, president, AERWA, told TOI, “Some crushers are just 50 metres from the national highway and adjoining our residential area but government authorities are not bothered about the health of residents. Around 20,000 people living in Amravati, DLF area, Chandimandir, Burj Kotia, Jallaha and Surajpur village in the area are suffering from the dust and noise emanating from the crushers.“ Colonel Roy Avikash (retd), general secretary, AERWA, said crushers' zone is a hazardous industry, either CLU (change of land use) should not have been granted for township or crushers should be kept away. “The area is also safe zone for wildlife and declared eco-sensitive zone but activities of crushers adversely affected them,“ Col Roy added.
 
 When contacted, S Narayanan, member secretary, HSPCB, told TOI that he was out for training for the last week and had not seen the complaint. “However, we will examine the complaint and procedure will be followed to ascertain the noise and air pollution by taking samples.“
 
