KOCHI/MUMBAI: After a delay in getting permits due to holidays in India and the UAE, Egyptian patient   will leave Mumbai for   on Thursday, said a source.

 “Eman will be shifted to Burjeel  , Abu Dhabi, on Thursday, by 6pm or 7pm, on an Egypt Air Airbus 300,’’ said the source. Eman, once considered the world’s heaviest   at 500kg, is in   Hospital, Charni Road, since February 11 and underwent bariatric surgery to reduce to 176kg.
 
 A medical team of 15 professionals from VPS Healthcare is camping here for over a week to finetune Eman’s travel plans, right from her from Saifee Hospital, Charni Road, to Mumbai international airport. They include an aviation doctor, multi-disciplinary consultants, intensivists, medevac (medical evacuation) professionals, paramedics and support staff.
 
 Another indicator of Eman’s travel plans is a letter that Saifee Hospital officials received from VPS Healthcare. “We have got a letter from VPS Healthcare stating that the patient is stable and is fit to fly from Mumbai to Abu Dhabi, said the hospital’s chief operating officer, Huzaifa Shehabi.
 
 Meanwhile, the Saifee Hospital team, which has been treating   free of cost, said the VPS report reiterated its stand that their patient was “hale and hearty’’.
 
 Dr Aparna Govil Bhasker, who is one of the 13 doctors involved in Eman’s treatment, said, “This proves that Eman’s sister Shaimaa’s allegations are false. She called us liars. She should ideally apologise to us,’’ said Dr Govil Bhasker. Shaimaa had 10 days back made a series of allegations against Saifee Hospital and its doctors; the prime one being that they had promised to keep Eman till she could walk. Shaimaa even circulated pictures of her sister on social media, but Saifee doctors said the pictures were taken just after Eman suffered her first epileptic attack early in March. “Eman is stable and doing well,” said the doctor.
 
 It was after Shaimaa’s allegations surfaced that VPS Healthcare stepped in to offer Eman year-long free hospitalization at its Abu Dhabi hospital. 
 
 Stating that he had not yet received details about Eman’s travel plans, Shehabi said, “I am confused. First the hospital told the media that it is planning a life-saving surgery on Eman, and now it has emailed us saying Eman is fit.’’
 
 
