HYDERABAD:   who expose themselves to   too often are putting their  . City doctors warn that one in every four babies born is preterm. And one out of four preterm deliveries could be due to exposure to automobile and industrial exhaust.

 Reacting to an international research study conducted by the   (SEI) that links outdoor pollution to   and low birthweight babies, city doctors reveal that the rate of preterm births in Hyderabad is between 20 and 24 per cent of live births. They also list outdoor pollution, particularly automobile and industrial exhaust, as one of the major causes for preterm deliveries and birth of underweight babies.
 
 In the absence of official data on preterm deliveries and low birthweight babies, city doctors estimate that at least 20 per cent of the live births fall short of the gestation period. On the higher side it is 24 per cent. Increased incidence of asthma and autism in children of age group 0-5 years is also linked to their mothers being exposed to air pollution during pregnancy .
 
 Dr Roya Rozati, head of the department of obstetrics and gynaecology, Owaisi Hospital and Research Centre, says, “ Alt hough there are no accurate statistics for Hyderabad, the preterm birth rate is around 24.5 per cent. The incidence is increasing.“
 
 “Currently we are working on epidemiological study on pollution and preterm births, low weight babies and infertility in different populations under different conditions of exposure. The consistency of results strengthen the weight of evidence for a true association between exposure and outcome,“ points out Dr Roya Rozati. According to Dr Sharmila Khaja, consultant paediatrician, Apollo Hospitals, Hyderabad is no different from other major cities when it comes to pollution and premature births. “Particulate matter of 2.5 microns is known to cause preterm births. Almost 30 percent of all preterm births is due to pollution,“ she adds.
 
 Dr Vimee Bindra, consultant gynaecologist and infertility specialist, estimates that between 21and 25 per cent of babies born in the city are pre term. “ Antenatal exposure to air pollutants can increase the risk of preterm delivery and low birth weight babies. Severe pollution may lead to stillbirths or sudden infant death syndrome,“ she warns.
 
 According to Dr Harikishan Boorugu, senior consultant physician, vehicular pollution can result in worsening of asthma and lung problems. The morality rate depends on how preterm is the baby just before 37 weeks of pregnancy or much before (28 weeks etc).
 
