CHANDIGARH: Punjab local government minister Navjot Singh Sidhu on Wednesday claimed that Union minister of housing and urban poverty alleviation M   had written to chief minister Captain   pointing out glaring   in release of central and state share of funds to the urban local bodies (ULBs).

  Taking pot shots at the previous SAD-BJP government, Sidhu said that as per the communication the state’s share was not released and there was also delay in releasing the central government’s share. However, SAD has vehemently rejected his claims.
 
 The letter was shared by Sidhu with the media claiming it (the letter) “vindicated” his stand that former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal and his son Sukhbir Singh Badal were responsible for “diversion” of funds for the three key missions during previous SAD-BJP regime.
 
 Referring to a review meeting held by secretary, urban development on April 7, 2017 in Chandigarh, the union minister in the letter said, “In the smart cities mission even though SPV (Special Purpose Vehicle) was formed long back in Ludhiana and project management consultants appointed, no project has been tendered so far.” 
 
 “In the Amrut mission, there has been a long delay in DPR preparation, tendering and start of works. The third (final) State Annual Action Plan has also not been sent by the Punjab government to the Ministry of Urban Development. In the Swachh Bharat Mission, out of ULBs (Urban Local Bodies), only one has been declared ODF and there is low withdrawal of funds for construction of toilets,” the letter stated. Naidu requested the CM to review the progress of the missions and direct officials to expedite the implementation of the projects. 
 
 “The Akalis should stop justifying their faults and bad mouthing the Congress led government on the issue of holistic development of the state across all sectors as the dark reality of their decade long rule has been unmasked by the Union urban development, housing and urban poverty alleviation Ministry,” said Sidhu.
 
 Reacting to Sidhu’s allegations SAD on Wednesday urged him to read and understand Naidu’s letters carefully before releasing them to the press. SAD secretary and spokesman Dr Daljit Singh Cheema said Naidu had written a letter (which was released by Sidhu to the press) to the Punjab government on April 20, 2017 requesting the chief minister to review the progress of various ongoing missions and sought his cooperation so that further installments of funds could be released. “But it is surprising that even after a gap of one month instead of fulfilling the shortcomings mentioned in the letter and getting funds released, the minister is resorting to cheap political gimmicks blaming the SAD leadership,” he said. 
 
 Cheema further said the Union minister had very positively observed that projects were getting delayed due to non-release of funds some times by the state government and sometimes by the Union government.
 
