Motherhood is one of the most joyous occasions in a woman’s life and at the same time, most anxious and worrisome. This week, consultant gynaecologist from Care Hospital Dr S Anuradha answers a few frequently asked questions about pregnancy-related diet, health and overall emotional and physical well-being:

 There are several myths and doubts about the kind of food pregnant women should eat or avoid. What do you suggest?
 
 While nutritious and balanced food is advised, the type of diet that women needs to take at this time depends on the physical condition and fitness level of the person, whether she is obese, overweight, suffers from hypertension or any other illness. If she is overweight or has fibroids, she should eat more of protein-rich food and avoid high carbs and fatty food. Avoid extra salt if she has high BP. But in general, junk food or rich spicy and fried hotel food, food containing preservatives are best avoided while more of fresh fruits and vegetables are recommended. Iron and calcium-rich food such as milk also forms an important part of diet. Only fruit to be avoided is raw papaya as it contains a substance which can affect the uterus and lead to miscarriages.
 
 Are daily exercises and yoga recommended during this time?
 
 It depends on the medical condition of the woman. The treating doctor or gynaecologist would be the best person to advise about workouts and yoga but she shouldn’t put any pressure on the abdomen and hips. But instead of sitting indoors with television, laptops and smart phones, would-be mothers should take at least a walk daily in fresh air and engage in some light exercises to keep the pelvic muscles relaxed and active. This can enhance the chances of normal   rather than caesarean ones. Also avoid lifting weights, squatting and bending too much.
 
 What kind of dresses and shoes should be worn during pregnancy?
 
 Avoid pointed heels and even high block heels. As for clothes, loose, pure cotton clothes are recommended and avoid dresses that cause any kind of pressure on the tummy.
 
 What are the precautions to be taken while attending parties or family functions?
 
 It’s better to avoid partying, and even if one goes, remember no dancing, no smoking, no alcohol as all these would be detrimental to the foetus. Avoid late night staying awake and rich food in parties.
 
 What are the medicines to be avoided during pregnancy?
 
 It’s advised to avoid all medicines unless strictly prescribed by the treating gynaecologist. However, vitamin supplements, multivitamins, protein powders, iron and calcium tablets can be taken.
 
 What are the hygiene aspects to be taken care of?
 
 Genital hygiene is very important. So every time, one uses the wash room, wash the area with clean running water. There’s no requirement for washing with anti-bacterial liquids or medicines. Regularly take bath, including head bath but avoid pouring hot water on the body, especially on the abdomen. Lukewarm water is okay and so is steam bath in low temperature.
 
 Is mood swing commonly found in the pregnant woman?
 
 Yes, as she sometimes develops depression and suffers from anxiety and also from pregnancy-related health issues. In such cases, husband’s understanding and support is very important and so is the support of in-laws and family members to keep her happy and tension-free.
 
 Hairfall is another common complaint during this time...
 
 Hairfall is more common post pregnancy, after delivery, especially during breast-feeding. It’s mainly because of poor nutrition of the mother. Nutrition is even more important post-delivery, which women usually tend to ignore. This causes hairfall.
 
 How often should one visit the gynaecologist for check-up during pregnancy?
 
 Frequency of visits should be once a month upto 28 weeks of pregnancy. It should be twice a month from the 28th to 34th week of pregnancy and once a week from the 34th week till delivery of the baby.
 
 (Compiled by Sulogna Mehta)
 
 
