PUNE:   in Kondhwa, Baner, Deccan and Pune Camp areas, which have seen wide scale encroachments as cited by activists, will come under the scanner after minister of state for   Dilip Kamble ordered a probe into encroachments and creation of third party rights on the over 93,000-acre such plots in the state. 

 The government has ordered a probe by the   into the   spread across the state. Nearly one lakh acres of land in Pune, Nagpur, Nashik, Konkan and Amravati belongs to Waqf. 
 
 Social activist Salim Mulla said he has listed the cases where there is largescale encroachment and that he will be sending the list to the Waqf board. "I have demanded information under RTI on the same,''added Mulla. The CID inquiry will definitely bring out the irregularities. District administration officials said the survey report would be submitted to the government.
 
 Activists and lawyers have alleged that the survey was carried out by the minority affairs department in 1997-2012 and fresh survey was needed, especially in view of the encroachments.
 
 Kamble said the land should be used for the welfare of the community and for creation of facilities like madrassas and Haj Bhavans.
 
 Advocate A Rehaman, who handles various cases related to Waqf land, said he has taken up many cases of encroachments. "A survey has been undertaken by the district administration and it will surely highlight the encroachment issue,'' he added.
 
 State government statistics suggest that Maharashtra has around 93,418 acre of Waqf land spread over nearly 23,566 registered properties with most of them in Aurangabad division, which was part of the dominion of the Nizam of Hyderabad. However, a task force under the principal secretary (revenue) had pointed out that around 70% of the plots were encroached upon or transferred.
 
 An inquiry commission, headed by Atak Shaikh, a retired district and sessions judge, submitted its report in 2015. The report indicted officials and elected representatives for encroachments on these Muslim endowments and their illegal transfer, development and creation of third party rights.
 
