AJMER:   of   has declared his son   as his rightful successor putting an end to the controversy broke out over his suspension from the post by his younger brother   who declared him a Murtad (non-Muslim) following his statement on Triple Talaq issued on the eve of the closing ceremony of 805th annual Urs on Monday.

 Dewan stated that three talaqs in one sitting is not in tune with Islam. The pronouncement of talaq one by one should be taken place in a span of 90 days amidst negotiations. Perturbed over elder brother’s statement, Alimi sought the opinion of Muftis (clerics) who opined him of his brother deviating from the path of Quran. 
 
 On the basis of the oral opinion, Alimi on Tuesday afternoon proclaimed himself as the Dewan. He reasoned that as his brother ceases to be a Muslim because of his statement. “I being to the member of Dewan family and closest to the present Dewan thus become the recipient of the post,” said Alimi in his statement circulated widely on the social media. On Wednesday, Dewan called a press conference and questioned the right of his brother proclaiming himself as dewan and suspending him from the post. “I am a Dewan and after my death my successor will be my eldest son,” said Dewan. He said that he remained on the target of extremist   because he has always give statement in the favour of his country and this creates problem to extremist Muslims of India. He accused that such powers wanted to affect him because the post of Dewan is heredity and Supreme Court of India in 1987 had decided this matter. He said that no one has the right to denounce the Dewan.
 
 He cleared that he has only appealed to the Muslims of this country to leave eating beef to respect the feelings of other religion so that tension increasing between two communities can seize off. Alimi claimed that in presence of Morusi Amla and thousands of devotees in the dargah he has taken the possession of the post of Dewan. Alimi claimed that now he will adopt the process to remove Dewan Zainual from his post and therefore approaching different Muftis in this matter to issue Fatwas. He said that issues related to religion are a matter of Muftis and therefore speaking on such issue is not suitable.
 
