NEW DELHI: The   on Friday simplified the process for getting building plans sanctioned. At a meeting chaired by LG  , it was decided that an applicant will just need to fill a common form for getting all necessary approvals from various agencies.

 The decision to introduce a common application form was taken after consulting various agencies, such as the fire department,   and the municipal corporations. The land-owning agency had modified the provision in the recently notified unified building bylaws. The modified clause states: “All external agencies are integrated with the common application form…no requirement for an applicant to fill forms separately (sic).”
 
 A few years back, the civic bodies had made the process of obtaining sanctions online. But the latest change will ensure that people don’t have to approach different agencies to get necessary permissions. Baijal later tweeted: “Online approvals of building sanctions plans and grant of completion certificates in a time-bound manner, deemed approval thereafter (sic).”
 
 Along with this modification, the meeting also approved DDA’s budget for financial year 2017-18 and land-use changes to expedite Metro work. The agency plans to start 35 new land development schemes, such as construction of community centres and development of sport facilities and arterial roads. It plans to complete the work on two integrated freight complexes, at Ghazipur and Narela, which were proposed way back in the 1990s.
 
 The spend for the next fiscal is estimated at Rs 8,415 crore, of which Rs 3,557 crore is proposed to be utilised on housing and construction of commercial spaces. The land-owning agency hopes to earn Rs 2,106 crore from its housing projects, which are under construction at Narela, Rohini, Bakkarwala, Jasola and Vasant Kunj, among other places.
 
 The agency also cleared three proposals of north corporation regarding relaxation in height restrictions for multilevel parking lots. The corporation had sought permission for its parking projects in Sant Nagar, Pitampura Village and Shastri Park. The height restriction has been changed from 15 metres to “non-restricted”, but is subject to approval from Airport Authority of India, Delhi Fire Services and other statutory bodies.
 
 
