KOLHAPUR: Hopes run high for civic chief Abhishek Chaudhari with the approval of housing projects for slum dwellers proposed under the Prime Minister   (PMAY). 

 On Thursday, the central government announced an increase in the sanction to a revised amount of Rs 2.5 lakh for construction of every unit of the housing. The earlier amount was Rs 1.5 lakh in 2015. 
 
 Chaudhari will make a detailed presentation of housing schemes planned to rehabilitate families from Bondrenagar and Kapoor Vasahat slums by this month end. The presentation will be made before a high-powered committee that the state recently set up as per the Centre's directions. Along with   ( ), slum development projects have also been sent by the   ( ) and both projects are likely to get approved over the next few weeks.
 
 While talking to TOI Chaudhari said, "Housing schemes will be developed at the site of the slums. We hope to get projects sanctioned as all technical issues have already been cleared." 
 
 Chaudhari said since the projects will be developed on a public-private-partnership ( ) basis, the decision to increase the grant will make housing projects profitable. More such schemes can be undertaken after the increase in the private investment. The KMC has decided to turn its focus on providing housing units under two other criteria of the PMAY.
 
 "We will focus more on two categories of beneficiaries. One where the subsidy will be given to the beneficiary on the loans and the interest rate will be around 6.5%. Secondly, the focus will be more on providing houses to beneficiaries seeking the Centre's grant," Chaudhari said.
 
 The state's committee is headed by principal secretary of the housing development department. According to the KMC officials, around 200 families from both slums will get flats in the housing projects. The total cost of the two projects will be around Rs 12 crore. But, authorities claim that if the Centre increases its share to each housing unit, the KMC will not have to bear additional burden and just have to rework the proposal estimates.
 
 
