DHARAMSALA: If the Bengaluru Test was a “bloodbath“, will Dharamshala be more of mindless aggression? If   can be “the Donald Trump of world sport”, how unfair is it to label   a “systematic cheat”? Are India “scared of losing“? Did Kohli hit some Australian support staff with a bottle? Is India coach Anil Kumble a “puppeteer behind the scenes”?

 As the teams take position here in this scenic mountain stadium for the all-important, series-deciding fourth Test, some ridiculous hyperbole, shrill posturing and skilled post-truth jugglery is threatening to introduce a whole new level of weird in the India-Australia cricketing rivalry.
 
 Without taking names, suffice to say most of these terms in quotes above are borrowed from the Australian media, which ­ taking a leaf out of the Australian cricket sledging handbook ­ is used to indulging in the occasional raucous chest-thumping. Potshots at rival captain don't hurt either. Neither does the kind of pitch rant seen before the Ranchi Test.
 
 With India's new crop of players led by the combative Virat Kohli unused to taking a backward step when it comes to on-field bullying, the battle of the barbs now seems to have spilled beyond press-conference rooms and media boxes to social media pages and into the hearts of players and spectators. Even Amitabh Bachchan wasn't immune, reacting to the Trump jibe and rushing to Kohli's defence.
 
 The latest to join the bandwagon was injured pacer Mitchell Starc, who on Wednesday insisted that India were the chief instigators in the present stand-off after the Pune defeat: “It shows who we are as a group and it's (sledging) almost a defensive mechanism for them. They were scared of us, beating them in India... in the way they've been playing as well,” Starc was quoted as saying by FoxSports.
 
 Meanwhile, Mitchell Johnson suggested the supposedly pacy Dharamshala track “will make India nervous” since it is “an Australian kind of wicket”.
 
 All this began with the DRS 'Cheatgate' episode in Bengaluru, with every stray comment being twisted by the Oz media into a new thorn to inflame passions. The BCCI retaliated by terming Australia's tactics the “dressing room review system”. Oz legends Mathew Hayden, Mark Waugh and   lent the discourse credence by criticizing Kohli.
 
 In the other camp, Smith's 'brainfade' was scoffed at. Even the mild-mannered Cheteshwar Pujara was seen discussing the fine art of sledging  . The authorities ­ ICC and BCCI and CA ­ let everyone off but not before another controversy involving match referee Chris Broad.
 
 As 'Leakgate' followed 'Cheatgate', Ian Chappell strove to make plain that letting players off repeatedly for sledging could lead to a sorry on-field incident someday .Dean Jones, in contrast, wrote that “he was enjoying the antagonism” and praised “head of the snake” Kohli for standing up to Australia's mouthy tactics.
 
 In between came below-the-belt moves like a top Aussie website's 'Vettel of the Week' contest, asking its fans to vote between a panda, puppy, a kitten and Kohli. Mocking Kohli's injury in Ranchi too became a social-media norm. 'Monkeygate' and past animosities were raked up at every opportunity.
 
 The truth continues to take a backseat, then, as this bizarre hostility comes to a head in this tiny, heart-achingly beautiful stadium nestled amid the Dhauladhar ranges. Dharamshala seems a most unlikely setting for such a high-voltage clash. India and Australia are bitter rivals even at the best of times, though, so it's unlikely the serenity will help soothe tempers.
 
