ALLAHABAD: With the arrest of four men, the   on Monday claimed to have solved the   where   were brutally murdered and two of girls were also raped in the intervening night of April 23 and 24. 

 The arrested killers have been identified as Neeraj (prime accused), Pradeep Kumar, Mohit and Satyendra of Lakhanpur and Tulsipur villages respectively.
 
 Police have also recovered two knives (used in the crime), blood-stained clothes, a mobile phone and two motorcycles from their possession.   Anand Kulkarni told reporters that prime accused Neeraj had confessed that he he knew one of the slain girls. He said she worked at a local firm where she collected money from people on the pretext of providing them with cycles and sewing machines.
 
 Neeraj claimed that he, along with five others, had deposited Rs 7,500 with the slain girl in January but he hadn't got a cycle in return. The girl, however, continued to assure Neeraj that he would get the cycle but in the meantime, the firm shut shop and subsequently, all the staff also escaped.
 
 Neeraj and the girl were at loggerheads over the issue. Neeraj claimed that he was earning just Rs 1,500 through tuitions. Feeling insulted, Neeraj had plotted to take revenge. Neeraj called up and requested the girl that he would drop her at her examination center on April 24 as she was to appear for her MA exam at Lalgopalganj and her brother also had to go to Pratapgarh for some exam. Neeraj then contacted three of his close friends; Pradeep, Mohit and Satyendra. On April 23 night, Neeraj and his friends reached Judapur village and parked their bikes around 300 meters from the slain girl's house. There, Neeraj again called up the girl and asked her to come out on some pretext. As soon as the girl opened the main door, the men barged into the house.Then they hit three of the sleeping members on their heads with heavy objects to knock them out. Then they raped the two sisters before killing all the four. Police said the arrested youths were pursuing their Bsc first year from a local college. 
 
 
