Nagpur: SP, Nagpur rural, Shailesh Balkawade has asked State disaster response force (SDRF), attached to State reserve police force (SRPF), to submit a report on the Vena Dam operation which was wrapped up after fishing out the last body of Atul Bhoyar on Tuesday. Six revellers and two boatmen-cum-fishermen had drowned at Vena Dam in Kalmeshwar taluka, around 25km away from city on Sunday.

 SDRF, despite lack of equipment, had led the operation to retrieve bodies from the dam with the help of local fishermen and boatmen. After retrieving body of Rahul Jadhav after short while of their drowning on Sunday, SDRF team had recovered six bodies on Monday. Balkawade has already announced an award of Rs15,000 for the SDRF team and also Kalmeshwar police for their efforts to retrieve the bodies and managing the tragedy. Body of Bhoyar, who was a computer science teacher and also father of a two-and-half year old daughter, was fished out at 7.30am. 
 
 Balkawade said SDRF unit will share it’s experiences including the hurdles faced and manner in which they had overcomed them. “We intend to send the government our report on the basis of the experiences shared by the SDRF so that the various needs of the unit in terms of infrastructure and equipment are duly met. There is an ardent need to have such units in every district which is as of now present only in Nagpur and Dhule and that’s too attached with SRPF,” said the SP. 
 
 “There is also need to train and equip modules of even police department to manage disasters,” he said. The SP also added that he is also sharing his insights and seeking suggestions from the District disaster management cell of which he too is a member. 
 
 Balkawade also said that SDRF had got considerable assistance from the local fisherman and boatmen association during the rescue operation. “Fortunately, rural police had conducted an exercise at the onset of the monsoon where every police station had updated it’s data on the local divers, swimmers and boatmen. The records of people who owned boats were prepared for seeking their assistance during rescue operations. This preparation had helped us considerably to hasten the process of kick-starting the operations to retrieve the bodies in Vena dam tragedy,” he said.
 
 The SP also said he already has verbally taken the issue of monitoring the dams which belongs to irrigation or zilla parishad bodies where people turn up for picnic and revelries. 
 
 “Soon, we would also write to the collector regarding the security related issues of these water bodies, especially the dams, which are under different authorities. At least, the boats and nets of the fishermen or boatmen should be confiscated wherever such activities are disallowed like in Vena Dam as a deterrent,” he said. 
 
 
