AHMEDABAD: The regional unit of Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Thursday attached assets worth Rs 300 crore of   in a Rs 509 crore  , where money was laundered through multi-layered fake identities.

 “ED attaches assets worth Rs 132 crores (Market value Rs 300 Cr) of   in   in a Bank Fraud Case,” said a tweet from the ED.
 
 From 2007 to 2009, Biotor Industries Limited took loans of Rs 509 crore from 10 nationalized banks in the name of funding for farmers, including Rs 100 crore from Oriental Bank of Commerce, Rs 50 crore each from Corporation Bank, Indian Bank and Bank of Maharashtra among others.
 
 Under the banks’ scheme, to provide the cost of castor seeds to farmers privately, Biotor Industries transferred these loan sums to management and collection agent (MCA) accounts. From MCA accounts, the money was transferred to Village Level Aggregator (VLA) accounts in cooperative banks. VLA accounts belong to a group of 50 or 100 farmers, headed by one farmer. Sources said the money was later moved to VLA accounts in other cooperative banks and from there, was withdrawn by the company using fake identities of farmers in cash or by cheque. Further demand drafts were issued in the name of Biotor. In this way, Rs 250 crore of the loan amount of Rs 509 crore returned to Biotor Industries, which is owned by Rajesh Kapadia, Bharat Kapadia and Dinesh Kapadia. ED is investigating the trail of the remaining Rs 259 crore, as a lot of money was withdrawn as cash by the company. According to sources, the total fraud by Biotor Industries is worth Rs 1,500 crore, including other offences under investigation.
 
 In 2011, CBI registered a case of cheating and fraud against the directors of Biotor Industries for allegedly submitting forged documents to three banks and availing of post-harvest loans of Rs 1,500 crore. As the aspect of revenue fraud emerged, ED started a probe in the issue.
 
 Earlier in 2014, ED attached five properties of Biotor, which include a flat in Hill Park at Malabar Hill in Mumbai and four units of the company at Vadodara in Ramoli, Etola and Makarpura. According to sources, the value of properties attached at the time of the crime was Rs 17 crore and today it is more than Rs 200 crore.
 
 
