A Panvel hospital became the site of the latest tussle between a patient’s family and doctors on Sunday.

 Tukaram Talawe, 35, was admitted to  , Panvel, on May 9. Talawe was a   and had been complaining of  , sources said. According to his relatives, he was recovering and was to be released soon. “On Sunday morning, he had tea and breakfast in the morning and was completely normal. However, a couple of hours later, he got up to use the washroom, and collapsed on the floor,” a relative said.
 
 Talawe’s family alleged that even without checking the patient, doctors began demanding more money from the family, saying he had to be shifted to the ICU. “No one was telling us what had happened to him, and the doctors weren’t checking. However, his wife went to his bedside and checked his pulse, and realised he was dead,” the relative said.
 
 The relatives then started yelling at nurses and other hospital staff – after which doctors left the compound – and, according to sources, damaged hospital property. Hospital sources allege the relatives broke the reception desk and vandalised the ICU, damaging costly machinery.
 
 “How can someone die without any complications? Why did these people lie to us and try taking him to the ICU if he had already died?” a relative of Talawe said.
 
 The hospital administration called the police. “The incident is most unfortunate, and our senior, Dr Neel, is looking into the matter. We have lodged a police complaint against the family for damaging our property,” said Resident Medical Officer, Dr Sneha Rajshirke.
 
 Police have registered a complaint against the deceased patient’s relatives. “We understand that this is a trying time for them, but it doesn’t warrant violence,” a senior official from Panvel police said.
 
 Talawe’s family is adamant that he died due to medical negligence. “We will escalate the matter to the relevant authorities; we won’t let the doctors get away with it,” Tukaram’s brother said, tearfully, without disclosing his name.
 
 
