PUNE: Electricity supply to over 42,000 consumers on   was disrupted from 4.30am for seven to 15 hours on Monday when as many as 11 underground cables were damaged in a fire that started in a duct near 9BRD of the Air Force.

 A statement issued by Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Ltd said power supply of 16,000 consumers was restored by 11am and that of the remaining consumers by 7pm through an alternative source. 
 
 However, power supply to 10 big high tension consumers including hotels, malls and the IT park could not be restored till late in the night as it was becoming difficult to manage the excess load.
 
 The fire started when there was sparking at a joint of one 22 KV underground cable. It spread to 11 underground cables because the wooden boards used by   while concreting the duct near 9BRD were not removed after completing the work. 
 
 These wooden boards, which were used to support the inside during concreting, caught fire after the sparking which quickly spread to gut other cables. The distribution company has suffered a loss of Rs 12 lakh and the inconvenience to consumers, the statement said.
 
 As the fire spread through the entire duct, power supply to five sub-stations was disrupted affecting 42,000 consumers in Vimannagar, Shastrinagar, Kalyaninagar, Yerawada, Sanjay Park, Vadgaonsheri and IT Park.
 
 The distribution company said repair work started from early morning and was expected to be completed late in the night. Since supply to all consumers except the 10, has been restored through alternative supply lines, the company has to take care not to overload the system, to avoid another power failure. 
 
 Ten engineers and 85 workers of the power company are working to fix the repairs.
 
 Rajendra Raut, the head of PMC road department, said, “Prima facie it looks that the wooden boards were not used for the cement-concreting of the road because the civic body is not carrying out any road work in that area. However we will check the gorund reality.”
 
 
