NEW DELHI: Indraprastha Gas Ltd, the sole supplier of natural gas as automotive and kitchen fuel in Delhi and its suburbs, on Tuesday   retail   due to the impact of   but the move is likely to prompt auto drivers and bus operators to demand fare hike.

 In Delhi,   will become costlier by Rs 1.11 per kg and by Rs 1.27 per kg in Noida, Greater Noida and Ghaziabad. The new consumer price will be Rs 38.76 per kg in Delhi and Rs 44.42 per kg in Noida, Greater Noida and Ghaziabad.
 
 The company will continue to offer a discount of Rs 1.50 per kg on CNG during odd hours between 12.30 am and 5.30 am at select outlets.
 
 The price of gas piped to households (PNG) in Delhi will rise by 33 paise per unit (standard cubic meter, or SCM), from Rs 24.86 to Rs 25.19. Due to differential tax structure in UP,   price will rise by 36 paise per unit.
 
 In a statement on Tuesday, the company said the price was increased to make up for the loss of input credits against excise duty and service tax paid on certain goods and services purchased in the GST regime.
 
 The company used to get these input credits in the pre-GST dispensation. Since natural gas has been kept outside the ambit of GST, such input tax credits which were earlier available, have been discontinued now leading to additional costs.
 
 In addition, GST has become applicable on transportation charges for natural gas being purchased by IGL, which was not the case earlier.
 
 The company, however, maintained that the latest round of price increase would have a marginal impact on the per km running cost of vehicles. For autos, the increase would be 3 paisa per km, for taxis it would be 5 paisa per km and in case of buses, the increase would be 32 paise per km.
 
 Even after the price revision, CNG will still be 57% cheaper than petrol at current level of prices and 30% cheaper than diesel.
 
 IGL supplies fuel to over 9.75 lakh vehicles in the NCR through a network of 425 CNG stations and supplies nearly 7.65 lakh households in Delhi and NCR towns.
 
 
 
