JALANDAR: A day after performing at Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s rally, prominent Punjabi singer and now SAD leader   was questioned by   on Monday. He was summoned by the ED before the release of Punjabi film “Jugni hath kise na auni” in which drug lord   played a role. 

 Bhola is in jail in connection with the Rs 6000-crore synthetic drug racket.
 
 Makhan had also acted in the film and its producer   was also summoned by ED but he did not appear on Monday.
 
 On Sunday at Modi’s rally at Kotkapura, Makhan also sang a song which conveyed that Punjab was being defamed for political reasons and blamed Congress and AAP for this. He had also questioned the very high percentage of drug addicts in Punjab being stated by AAP and Congress leaders. “Are 80% youths addicts in Punjab,” he asked. 
 
 It is learnt that Makhan was questioned by ED officials for around seven hours about the investments in the film to find out if Bhola had invested any money earned from drug trafficking. After coming out of ED office Makhan said he was innocent. 
 
 Makhan, was booked by Jalandhar police in 2006 under provisions of NDPS Act and was accused of involvement in trafficking of Heroin from India to Canada. However charges could not be proved against the singer turned politician and he was acquitted in March 2014. Makhan was living in Canada when he was booked here as police had claimed that a person living abroad could also be booked for importing or exporting narcotics. After his acquittal Makhan had said that he was not imvolved at all any illegal activity and he was falsely implicated.
 
 In the film, which was started before Bhola’s arrest, latter acts as a drug smuggler operating from inside jail. As he was arrested when film was still midway, the rest of the movie could be completed without him only after making some changes in the story line. ED sources said that they wanted to probe the real life links also between Bhola and Sidhu and the duo had also been asked to come with papers of their properties. A trailer of the film has already been released on Youtube.
 
 Makhan, who was earlier with BSP and contested parliament election on party ticket from Anandpur Sahib and only a few months back he joined SAD.
 
