KOLKATA: In 2015, one in every two women committing suicide in West Bengal was a housewife, driven to despair primarily by domestic violence. Even though disease, unemployment, drug abuse and relationships were among the causes according to data released by the  , experts ascribed the high incidence of suicide among housewives to   and lack of options available to them.

 Kolkata recorded 339 suicides with a population of 1.41 crore as against Delhi (1,553 cases with 1.63 crore population) and Chennai (2,274 cases with a population of 87 lakh). The data pertained to 2015. Bengal ranked third in the country in suicides but the city has succeeded in reversing a five-year-old trend and bringing down the total number of suicides. The state witnessed a total of 14,602 suicides in 2015 (10.9% of all suicides committed in the country) -an increase of 2% from 14,310 it had witnessed in 2014.
 
 But it is not just the cold fi gures that policymakers may find worrying. The data reveals that women here remain vulnerable to family pressures and domestic ills. Bengal witnessed 5,537 female suicides in 2015. A staggering 2,908 of them were housewives. As many as 346 suicides were attributed to dowry torture. Women remained the most vulnerable in a family set-up and ho memakers had few options but to endure the abuse they are often subjected to, said women's rights activist  . “With children to look after, they are forced to put up with the torture. When they can no longer bear the pain, they take their own lives. This has been the norm in our state and it remains unchanged. Various causes are ascribed to a woman's suicide but if you scratch the surface you will find that it is actually domestic violence. No matter how much we campaign for gender equality, the fact remains our state fares very poorly in this re spect,“ she said.
 
 Incidentally, Bengal lodges the highest number of dowry cases amongst all states. Similarly, 1,667 women (both employed and homemakers) were said to have ended their lives over “family issues“.
 
 While more men committed suicide than women, the reasons were often very different, pointed out psychiatrist  . “In the case of men, it is either financial or the inability to cope with stress and failure.Unfortunately , our men are not conditioned to deal with reverses while women are pushed to the brink without any support.This will never change unless men and women are treated equally ,“ said Ram.
 
 In Bengal, 112 ended their li ves for failing in exams -six were from Kolkata. In the city , 19 committed suicide after suffering from deadly diseases like cancer, 96 due to mental illness and 32 for drug abuse.Thirty -12 of them women -ended their lives after failing in love and another 12 over extramarital affairs. As expected, it is the poor who were the first to give up their will to live. Of the 14,602 suicides, about 10,604 earn less than Rs 1 lakh a year. In contrast, there were 45 who committed suicide even after earning more than Rs 10 lakh a year. Yet again, hanging (6,050) and poisoning (3,566) were most chosen to end one's life.
 
 In 2012, Bengal did not figure in the list of top five states that contributed to maximum suicides in the country . A year later, the state contributed to 9.7% of suicides in the country and in 2014, it increased 10.9%.
 
 Bengal has not admitted agrarian distress as the reason for even a single suicide in the state and that has been reflected in NCRB data, which shows farmer suicides in the state are nil. A socio-economic analysis points out that majority of those who committed suicide had little or no education.
 
