BETMA: In a major step towards rehabilitation of members of nomadic  , which traditionally indulges in making weapons, Shri Guru Singh Sabha Indore has decided to start an industrial training institute near Betma gurudwara to   and find them jobs.

 Sabha president   made the announcement at a large gathering of Sikligar community members here on Saturday.
 
 “The construction of the Dashmesh Industrial Training Institute will start soon. We have raised Rs 18 lakh through donation for the same. The eligible members of Sikligar community will get a chance to shed the illicit weapon making trade and feed their families with honestly earned money,”said Bhatia.
 
 The Sikligars, who had gathered at the Betma gurudwara from Burhanpur, Barwani, Khargone and Dhar districts, expressed their pain due to government’s apathy towards their community, members of which are well versed with the art of weapon making from ancient time.
 
 The art which is passed down the generations since the era of Sikhi gurus leading the fight with the Mughals, is now illegal, thus landing them in police net.
 
 The Sikligars alleged that their attempts to join the mainstream have been thwarted by fake cases levelled by police against innocent members of the community. 
 
 “A few members indulge in illegal gun making. But the entire community is blamed for it. Successive governments have shown a deaf ear to the cries of the warrior race trying to earn honest bread,” Gurumat Prachar Board chief sewedar Ranjeet Singh Ahuja said. The meeting was an effort to apprise the government of the plight of Sikligars. Though majority of the police and administrative officials invited for the event, did not turn up, state fisheries minister Antar Singh Arya reached amidst the community members and promised government support in the form of avenues for skill upgradation for employment generation.
 
 “The government schemes for the minorities can be utilised for the uplift of the community,” he told the gathering, exhorting the youth to shun illegal gun making and find suitable jobs by updgrading their skills.
 
 
