NEW DELHI: Two days after the   portal opened for students, many aspirants at Open House on North Campus complained about still not being able to complete the process. Officials said some tabs, such as submission of marks, have been disabled following the CBSE moderation controversy. 

 Students of several state boards alleged that they won’t be allowed to fill up the form even after getting the marksheet until the CBSE results were declared. “I came here on Monday to know how to fill up the form. I then tried it, but the tab was not working. I want to submit the form before the system gets overloaded. But officials said it had been disabled on purpose,” said Monika Rawat from Rohtak.
 
 Priyanka Tiwari, from Ghaziabad, had the same experience and returned to the campus on Wednesday. “I was told repeatedly to fill up the registration form so not being able to do so worried me,” said Tiwari. 
 
 Some candidates came to the campus looking for a different kind of assistance. Rajesh Yadav, a student from Lucknow, hoped to find someone who will fill up the form on behalf of him. “I wish to apply for the Hindi journalism course. As I have gone to a Hindi-medium school, I find it quite difficult to fill up the form by myself,” said Yadav. He had already tried the helpline but couldn’t get through to anyone. 
 
 Arushi Gupta and her friend Ishika Jain were looking for some clarity on the courses and the admission policy before starting the process. “Our results are not out yet, but we wanted to know about the courses available and their requirements. Today they explained how the best of four can be calculated and that was helpful. I will wait to fill up the form because I’m yet to decide about the course,” said Jain. 
 
 Several aspirants complained about lack of helpdesks to address their doubts. Though admissions to minority colleges like St Stephen’s and Jesus and Mary have started, aspirants can’t apply in these colleges before completing the centralised form. On filling up the centralised form, they will get a unique number that has to be used to complete the application process in the minority colleges.
 
 However,   officials said they hoped that all tabs would be fully functional in a few days. 
 
 
