Mumbai: A special CBI court judge, H S Mahajan, on Friday rejected the bail plea of the three main accused — former   chairman Yogesh Agarwal, the bank’s former deputy MD B K Batra, and Kingfisher Airline CFO A Raghunathan — in the Rs 1,300-crore loan case. But it granted liberty to six others who were arrested.

 The court had completed the hearing on Wednesday and posted it for orders on February 10. The loan granted to defunct   was a result of a collision and conspiracy between its absconding founder  , who “fled” the country last year to the UK, and IDBI Bank former chairman Agarwal, said CBI prosecutor Bharat Badami who opposed the bail plea on the grounds that the probe was still on. 
 
 The court denied bail to the three as it held that they prima facie appeared involved in the alleged conspiracy right from the beginning, from the stage of application for the loans in October and November 2009 to sanctioning and disbursing. Special judge Mahajan said that since investigation was still on and CBI was in the process of questioning other IDBI Bank officials, it could not rule out the likelihood of them tampering with evidence or influencing witnesses, as they were senior level officers who had held “key” positions in IDBI Bank and KFA.
 
 The special judge also observed that the other three officers of the bank who were arrested had a peripheral role as they were “following orders and instructions” of the superiors in disbursing loans.
 
 The CBI had on January 23 arrested nine accused, including five former officers of IDBI Bank and four of KFA. It submitted a chargesheet the next day, which said that Mallya diverted a part of the loan for his “personal’ use. The arrested who got bail of Rs 50,000 were IDBI Bank ex-deputy managing director O V Bundellu, two other former officials S K V Srinivasan and R S Sridhar, apart from Shailesh Borkar, A C Shah and Amit Nadkarni of KFA.
 
 They were allowed to be released on a cash bail with conditions not to tamper with evidence or witnesses. Badami had said that Batra had 58 bank accounts, which the agency was verifying. He said neither Mallya, Batra nor Agarwal were ordinary people, the latter two being public servants and were meant to act in the best interests of the bank, not otherwise, as was done.
 
 But arguing that the accused were “ordinary people” and “junior officers”, senior counsel Amit Desai who, along with Pranav Badheka appeared for the four KFA employees, said, “Loans granted to KFA were based on assessment of the company with no element of criminal conspiracy.” Desai said, “The role of banks is to keep the economy chugging.” They had argued that Nadkarni, Borkar and Shah had no role to play whatsoever except for disbursement of the loans, which were sought only to tide over bad times as global oil prices had risen causing an upheaval in the airline industry.
 
 The accused were mostly retired and senior citizens. Ashok Mundergi and Amol Patankar, counsel for Agarwal, had argued the loan was a decision of a consortium of banks and denied there was any conspiracy. Aabad Ponda, counsel for Batra, had argued that the arrest just before the chargesheet was filed and a custody plea was an attempt to focus attention on the case even when their continued custody is not legally essential. Girish Kulkarni, counsel for Bundellu, said he was a senior citizen, retired and that there was no need for custody once the chargesheet was filed. Rajiv Chavan, counsel for Srinivasan and Sridhar, argued that no case of conspiracy or criminal misconduct can be made out against these former bank officers. 
 
 
