JAISALMER: Getting one step ahead in  , CID in a joint operation with border intelligence (BI) arrested three Pakistanis residing here on long term visa on the charge of spying for ISI. One was caught in Barmer while two others were detained from Jodhpur Thursday night. Among recovered from the detainees are Pakistani SIM cards, army confidential documents and other vital information. Six spies have been caught in border areas of Jaisalmer in last one month and more are still in radar of intelligence agencies.

 Confirming this, ADG (intelligence) UR Sahoo said CID and BI police have caught three persons for spying from Barmer and Jodpur who were staying here on long term visa. They didn’t get Indian citizenship. For quite a long time, they were sending confidential information across the border and are being intensively interrogated, added Sahoo.
 
 CID BI Jodhpur zone SP Shweta Dhankad said   alias Santosh Maheshwari, resident of Sindh Province in Pakistan who is currently residing at Swaroopo ka Tala in Chauhatan, Barmer, was caught Thursday night, While Vinod and Sunil, both resident of Pakistani Sindh Province who were residing at Jodhpur were caught on the very night. All the three have relatives in Pakistan due to which they frequently visit Paksitan.
 
 Dhankad said many evidences of their espionage have been recovered during raids at their respective houses from which it appears that more people could be associated with the trio. 
 
 An official source said Sata Ram Maheshwari continuously shared information with ISI handler in Pakistan over phone. He also spoke about his two nephews Sunil and Vinod to ISI. Sunil and Vinod have shops in Jodhpur who goods to Pakistan. They visited Pakistan for business purpose and met ISI handlers there. 
 
 Last year a Pakistani Hindu resident Nandu Maharj alias Nand Lal Garg was nabbed by CID and BI from a hotel in Jaisamer for espionage. He established a vast network in Rajasthan and Gujarat to get information via agents for sharing them with ISI. 
 
 
