GALLE: It was the only time skipper   looked upset during India's massive but facile 304-run mauling -their biggest-ever overseas win in terms of runs - of Sri Lanka in the first Test.

 Having quickly raced to his 17th Test hundred (103 not out; 136b, 5x4, 1x6) in the morning before setting the hosts a 550-run target in the fourth innings, the captain seemed ready to pounce on the opposition, but himself let the 'prey' go when he dropped Upul Tharanga at second slip off a beauty from Mohammad Shami. It's not often that you see Kohli drop a sitter. It's even rarer to see Kohli upset with no one but himself. Thankfully, Shami ended the Indian captain's agony just one ball later as he forced Tharanga, who had scored 64 in the first dig, to chop one on to the stumps.
 
 Umesh Yadav then followed up on that blow by having Danushka Gunathika caught by   at short square leg, but the Lankans did well to show some fight even as they suffered their biggest Test defeat at home on Saturday.
 
 The man who primarily kept the match alive till at least an hour after tea on Day four of this game was opener Dimuth Karunaratne (97; 208b, 9x4). It was a chanceless knock and what stood out was the batsman's compact technique against both pace and spin.
 
 His biggest asset was application, which saw him not lose composure despite a few deliveries missing the edge by a whisker. He began well by flicking and driving Yadav straight down the ground before reverse sweeping   for a four.
 
 It's never easy to play Ravichandran Ashwin and Jadeja on Days 4 and 5 of a Test in the subcontinent but Karunaratne, Kushal Mendis (36; 71b, 3x4) and then wicketkeeper batsman Niroshan Dickwella (67; 94b, 10x4) all seemed to have their measure of the spin duo, using their feet to kill the spin or sweeping them beautifully till both bounced back with three wickets each to finish off the game.
 
 Mendis, who was out for his first duck at home in the first innings, looked good during his 79-run stand for the third wicket with Karunaratne, before a successful review from Jadeja - after umpire Bruce Oxenford had turned down his appeal - ended his stay at the crease. Former captain Angelo Mathews then played perhaps the most horrible stroke of his career, as his attempt to send a Jadeja delivery outside the park ended up in a leading edge, which saw the ball land in Hardik Pandya's hands at point.
 
 At 116 for four, just as Sri Lanka were looking like folding early, Karunaratne and Dickwella, who was in an attacking mode from the start, added 101 for the fifth wicket to delay the inevitable. Dickwella, though, perished eventually as he edged one to the keeper to give the persistent but till-then-unlucky Ashwin his first wicket.
 
 Karunaratne could've collected a well-deserved hundred, but succumbed to the nervous 90s as he swept an Ashwin ball which was drifting outside the off-stump, on to his stumps. With both No. 10 & 11 (skipper Rangana Herath and Asela Gunaratne) out due to injuries, all India needed was eight wickets, and their job was done when last man Lahiru Kumara 'slogged' Jadeja to mid off.
 
