PATNA: Bihar’s ruling party JD(U) on Sunday refused to defend its ally and RJD president   when BJP functionary   is accusing his family of acquiring property from his own party functionaries as quid pro quo for providing them ministerial berths in the UPA-1 government at the Centre.
 
  “We are not here to defend any person. It is the responsibility of the person against whom allegations have been made to defend himself,” JD(U) national general secretary and Rajya Sabha member   (RCP) Singh told newsmen in response to a query as to why his party has left the RJD alone to face the volley of allegations being made by Modi on almost daily basis.
  
  Modi on Saturday alleged that former Union minister  ,   and   had gifted land and assets worth several crores to Lalu’s wife and former CM Rabri Devi and their sons   and Tejashwi Prasad Yadav to become a minister in the UPA-1 government.
  
  RCP said making allegations and counter-allegations was nothing new in politics. “Such things happen in politics,” he said.
  
  Asked to react over the RCP’s statement, RJD spokesperson Chittranjan Gagan said, “Since Modi’s allegations are related to the RJD, the party has been strongly replying to the BJP functionary’s concocted charges.”
  
  On the issue of ‘benami’ properties, RCP said the JD(U) stand was very clear. “We don’t bark, we believe in action,” said Singh, who was earlier principal secretary to Bihar CM Nitish Kumar. To a question on dynasty politics, Singh said the JD(U) has always opposed it.
  
  RCP was responding to media queries during a JD(U) event where one Shanti Singh, who claimed to be the women’s cell chief of Hindustani Awam Morcha-Secular (HAM-S) led by former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi, joined the ruling party. HAM (S) state vice-president B L Baishyantri later claimed Shanti was not holding any post in his party.
  
  At an event on Saturday, RCP said the JD(U) is a party in which its chief doesn’t pick up CM from his family. He was apparently referring to a 2014 incident when Bihar CM Nitish Kumar had resigned and chosen Jitan Ram Manjhi as his successor.
