NEW DELHI: Swaraj India president Yogendra Yadav has alleged that even at the end of two years, Delhi government is nowhere close to fulfilling its poll promises made in the education sector as opposed to what AAP projects. He said several key issues like teacher vacancies in government schools, construction of new schools and increased opportunities for students pursuing higher education have seen no change. 

 According to Swaraj India, AAP had promised to construct 500 schools two years ago. “But only four new government schools have been constructed. This is less than the number of schools constructed by previous governments during each of their tenure,” Yadav said. According to the data produced by the party (sourced from NCT government website), the number of schools has increased from 1,007 to 1,011 in 2015-17. 
 
 Similarly, Yadav said, the party had started a higher education guarantee scheme, under which those keen to pursue higher studies were to be granted a maximum loan of Rs 10 lakh. “But the government has granted only three loans till now, and capped it at Rs 3.15 lakh,” he alleged, adding that the rest were financed through a Central scheme. 
 
 He brought up the issue of teacher recruitment too, claiming that 44% of teaching positions in government schools are still either vacant or have temporary teachers.
 
 However, Atishi Marlena, advisor to education minister Manish Sisodia, challenged the claim saying that the AAP government had ordered exams for 5,000 teaching positions and that Delhi Subordinate Services Selection Board had conducted 21 exams for teachers. “We are still in the process of getting teachers and, meanwhile, have given departmental promotions. Additionally, 9,500 posts have also been created in schools by our government,” she told TOI. 
 
 On Swaraj India’s claims on schools, she said the government has decided to add more blocks to present government schools because of land issues. “Our main aim is capacity building, and we are in the process of making more rooms in each schools, which will also be used in two shifts,” said Marlena.
 
 Marlena said though the government has not been able to use all components of the budget, it has issued specific guidelines to all schools and departments to use the funds judicially and not create uneccesary expenses. “All the new school blocks that have been coming up obviously need funds and we have used them according to our need,” she said.
 
 
