BENGALURU: Nearly 50% of the old   building near   was demolished on Thursday. It was razed to make way for a new hospital for livestock and cattle estimated to cost Rs 16.4 crore. However, trees on the premises need to be axed for the project, something which hasn’t gone down well with animal activists and greens.

 While the demolition plan drafted by the private consultant tasked with designing the new building says 56 trees need to be cut, BBMP and animal husbandry officials maintain the number is four. Members of Citizens for Bengaluru (CfB) have found there are 92 trees on the campus. They conducted a second round of tree mapping on Thursday.
 
 Activists wonder whether a cattle hospital is needed in the heart of the city.  , member of Citizens for Bengaluru (CfB), said: “How is a hospital for livestock and cattle relevant in the central business district? It should be set up on the outskirts to make it easier for cattle rearers to access medical care. Also why do so many trees have to be chopped? I have written to the forest department seeking their intervention.”
 
 BBMP forest officer Vijay Kumar said only four trees have been proposed to be axed. “The animal husbandry department had sent an application to cut four trees — mango and rainforest. But we haven’t granted approval yet. These trees are more than 50 years old,” he told TOI. 
 
 Even Nagendra G, deputy director of the animal husbandry department, clarified that only four trees are proposed to be cut and not 92. “Rumours are being circulated that we plan to cut 85 or more trees. We have no such plans. The new animal hospital will come up in the same spot where the old building stands now. Only four trees which are coming in the way will be axed,” he said.
 
 The department has set a six-month deadline for the hospital, proposed to have two floors — ground floor will have 24/7 treatment facilities for all animals and the first floor will house laboratories and staff rooms. 
 
 Sarvodaya, an NGO, which conducts the animal birth control (ABC) programme at the hospital has been given an eviction notice. “Cutting trees is not a healthy decision. The triangular area has 96 trees, of which 10-20 are very old and huge in size.   is a sad step,” said Varun Hemchandra, an activist.
 
 
