Nagpur: After serving hygienic and delicious midday meals (MDM) to 5,500 Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) and Zilla Parishad (ZP) students free of cost for last 11 months, Bengaluru-based NGO Akshaya Patra Foundation is now ready to cook and supply MDM to around 25,000 students in civic body’s schools. NMC deputy municipal commissioner Ranjana Lade told TOI a proposal seeking approval to engage Akshaya Patra to serve MDM to all NMC schools has been submitted to the state government last month. “Akshaya Patra successfully served MDM to NMC’s 2,500 students on pilot basis. Reports from the schools are very positive. Students are delighted to get freshly cooked and hot MDM daily. Schools also said students literally waited for MDM to arrive each day. This is a positive sign for NMC schools,” she said. In August 2016, chief minister Devendra Fadnavis along with the then mayor Pravin Datke and ruling party leader Dayashankar Tiwari had launched the pilot project of MDM in association with Akshaya Patra. During the inaugural programme, Fadnavis had assured supply of MDM from Akshaya Patra to all NMC and ZP schools in the city as well as rural parts of the district. Akshaya Patra unit president Vyomapada Das told TOI the centralized and fully automated kitchen of Akshaya Patra was completely ready at Wathoda in East Nagpur. “Now we can cook and supply MDM for 22,000-25,000 students. We have been supplying MDM free of cost to 3,000 ZP and 2,500 NMC students. It costs Rs13 per child per day for us to cook and supply MDM up to the schools. The government gives grant to NMC and ZP for MDM. We have requested the government to give the grant to us so that we can supply MDM to 22,000-25,000 NMC students,” he said. Das added the city was the first in the state where Akshaya Patra has launched its MDM. “We have also started to work with Thane Municipal Corporation, and are exploring the possibility of tying up with Brihan Mumbai Municipal Corporation,” he said. For years now, NMC has been serving only khichdi in the name of MDM to its students. The civic body has engaged 151 women Self Help Groups (SHGs) to whom foodgrains are supplied along with some grant for cooking and supplying food to schools. Under the pilot project, Akshay Patra has served a variety of food under MDM. Highlight of Akshay Patra’s MDM is that it supplies hot food at school level by bringing it in its own specialized containers and vehicles. Right from cooking to supply, there are no chances of food getting contaminated. Known as the world’s leading NGO in MDM, the foundation is serving 14,29,878 students from 10,845 schools situated in 11 states of the nation.