NOIDA: In a glaring security lapse on the Noida-Greater  , two men were caught racing horses on the expressway on Sunday morning, in a video that has gone viral on social media. A few bikers were also seen cheering the racers in the video.

 The video, which is doing the rounds on WhatsApp groups and other social media, has brought back memories of bike racing on the 24.5-km expressway. There are many high-quality cameras on the expressway, set up for surveillance at a cost of Rs 40 crore. The cameras work under highway traffic management system (HTMS), which is designed to capture images of vehicles moving at speeds of more than 100 kmph.
 
 As the video went viral, there were jokes about “horse power” being displayed on the expressway, on which thousands of vehicles with high horsepower (a unit to measure the power of engines) run everyday.
 
 At least 12 officials of the Noida Authority’s traffic cell monitor   footage from the cameras on the expressway’s   (TMC) round-the-clock. There are also eight quick response teams including PCR vehicles and ambulances.
 
 While   officials said they had no information about the horse racing incident, traffic police officers later said CCTV footages were checked and were found to be captured at 7.30am on Sunday.
 
 A Noida Authority official admitted that they have come across horse racing cases in winter last year, while a few bikers indulged in races two years ago.
 
 Referring to the video, Sandeep Chandra, in-charge of Noida traffic cell, said: “We do not know of any such incident on the Noida-Greater Noida Expressway. There are at least a dozen people monitoring it.”
 
 Traffic inspector Layak Singh said the bikers in the video would be identified through their vehicle numbers. “One horse ran from the intersection near Jaypee Hospital in Sector 128, while the other started near the HCL office on the Greater Noida-Noida route. We were not informed by the TMC officials about the footage. They have been instructed to report any such case to the traffic police in future,” Singh said.
 
 Horse races are usually done for betting purposes and Sunday’s race might have been for the same purpose, officials said.
 
 
