It’s not just politicians who have gone all out to woo voters this BMC elections. Some salons, gaming zones and food joints are at it, too. In an endeavour to encourage voting, several businesses across the city are using smart marketing gimmicks. So, from free haircuts and discounts on facials, to free desserts, there’s a lot on offer for citizens who vote today. 

 As they vote to transform their locality, the residents of Antop Hill get a chance to go in for a personal makeover, too. Santosh Nikam, owner of a hair salon and spa in the vicinity, says, “Voters from ward no 179 and 180, close to 2200 of them, will get coupons once they cast their vote at the polling booth. They can come to our salon and avail offers like 50 per cent discount on sparkle hair strands, 30 per cent discount on organic hair spa and facial, free basic manicure among other things. The offer is valid till March 10.” 
 At a gaming zone in Lower Parel, one can show their inked finger and enjoy a free game of their choice. Says Ashok Cherian, CMO of the outlet, “From virtual reality and arcade games to adventurous games like sky karting and traditional ones like bowling and cricket, there’s plenty on offer. Since our target audience is the youth, we want to ensure that they exercise their right to vote.”
 
 Special dishes on menus, reasonably-priced menus and free treats are available, too. Anvay Kolwankar, a partner at an eatery in Worli and Khar, says, “We want to provide a good experience to our regular customers. As we have completed our first anniversary, we have a special offer for them. They can choose from a variety of food cards and the same will be offered to them at a `111.”
 
 
  
 Visitors at a casual dining outlet at Kemps Corner will be in for a sweet surprise as they get a chance to try authentic desi desserts like   and   for free. Nishek Jain, owner of the joint, adds, “During the campaigns, we have also provided our space for candidates to hold meetings and clear queries of voters in the vicinity. We want to do our bit to increase the number of voters; after all, these guys are the ones who will take care of our roads, sewage problems and other issues. It’s only a macro effort.” 
 Laxmi Thanekar, a resident of Bandra, who is going to cast her vote today, shares, “A lot of lifestyle brands are offering 20 to 40 per cent discounts at their stores today. I would have voted anyway, but now, there’s an added incentive for me to step out to vote. I will go shopping straightaway from the polling booth!”
 
 Divya Sasi, a voter from South Bombay, adds, “I am surprised to know that discounts are available on even puja items and grocery. This, I am sure, will encourage a lot of homemakers to cast their vote, too.”
 
 
 
