With just one day to go for the civic body   in the city, the prospective candidates are all prepped up. But, equally excited are the first-time voters who, apart from casting their vote, have updating the ‘post-vote’ selfie on social media, on the agenda.
These youngsters are making sure to do their homework, including knowing the candidates’ credentials and double-checking their names in the voting list, while battling some last-minute drawbacks of the process. Pune Times takes a look...
 
 
 
 Kajal Pardeshi recently checked the Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) voters list but made sure to double check it on the website in order to avoid missing her first go at casting a vote. “I have closely studied the candidates standing for the   and will vote for those who have actually worked for the betterment of the society. This, being my first time, I am very excited about the whole process of voting,” says Kajal.
 
 On the other hand, there are some people who have not yet received their voter’s ID card. Prashant Pawar, an engineering student, is one of them. However, his name appears in the list. After checking with officials, Prashant was told that since his name is in the list, he will be able to vote but has to produce another valid government issued ID while doing so. Prashant informs, “I am prepared and will be going with my friends for voting. Just the other day, we were discussion about the malpractices that candidates are involved in, in order to woo voters. I am against all this and knowing how candidates influence voters has helped me decide on who I am going to vote for.”
 
  
  
 
 Though there’s excitement in the air, confusion among first-time voters is also looming large, primarily due to the four-member ward system. Sumit Kadam, a Class XII student, says, “The four-member ward system translates into at least 20 candidates in each ward, belonging to different political parties. Also, most of them too are first-time contestants. Considering the unavailability of a previous work-profile for these candidates, it has become confusing for us to shortlist prospective leaders.”
 
 Another issue plaguing first-time voters is the lack of awareness about the voting machine and other procedures at the voting booth. “Yes, there will be government officials to help us at the voting centres, but I am confused about the working of a voting machine itself. I have seen it in an advertisement, but the four-candidate system has put me in a dilemma,” adds Swati Desai, another Class XII student.
 
 
 
 
 
 All of us have read about the election process at some point in life; be it through school textbooks or other ways. So, when it comes to putting that knowledge to use, one is bound to be looking forward to it. Nagesh Gawali, an art student, says, “We have been learning about democracy throughout school and now, it’s time to be a responsible citizen by being an active part of the process by executing our right to vote.”
 
 
 Due to some miscommunication about voter registration dates, many youngsters stand to miss their first chance at casting a vote. Mayur Sonawane, an engineering student, informs that he had gone to the ward office to register his name but the registration process was over by then. “There was some miscommunication. I followed up with the officials but as the registration date had passed, I will have to wait until the next elections to vote,” he regrets.
  
 
 Pune Municipal Corporation, along with a group of like-minded youngsters and the National Service Scheme (NSS) students, has started a voter awareness programme with the sole aim of improving the political and social structure of our society. Ankita Abhyankar, a co-ordinator of the drive, says, “Along with NSS students from various colleges, we have been distributing pamphlets, showing placards at traffic signals and appealing people to cast their vote. We are also using street plays and popular dialogues from films like Rang De Basanti, to attract attention.” 
 
  
  
 
 
 
