JALANDHAR: Ten years back Sirsa-based   had announced support for the Congress during the 2007 assembly elections. But this time it has shifted its support to the SAD-BJP government in Punjab. Though it appears a 180-degree shift, the common point in both announcements is that it extended support to the ruling party/alliance facing anti-incumbency.

 Though the Congress won quite a few seats in some districts of Malwa region, still it failed to return to power and the SAD-BJP won with majority seats from Majha and Doaba region and parts of Malwa region. In 2007, it was dera head Gurmit Ram Rahim Singh, who himself asked his followers to vote for the Congress. This time, however, the decision has been announced by the political wing of the dera. 
 
 The decision to extend full support to the SAD-BJP was announced by Harinder Mangwal Insan, a member of the 45-member state body of the dera, at Baghapurana on Wednesday, who said that the decision was taken by their political wing late on Tuesday on the basis of feedback of the sangat. “The sangat has decided to support the SAD-BJP alliance in Punjab and so we have announced our support for it,” he added. 
 
 Ram Karn Insan, another member of the political wing of the dera, claimed, “We never impose our decision on our devotees and take a final call only after a feedback from them. This time, they want to support the SAD-BJP, so we will go with it.” Earlier, on January 30 during his interaction with media the dera head had claimed that that he had never asked any devotee to vote for any party and that it was the will of the sangat, which always prevailed. Block, district and state-level meetings were held with the followers of the dera on January 19 in Salabatpura with regard to the issue.
 
 In the 2014 parliamentary elections and the Delhi assembly elections in 2015, the dera had announced support to the BJP. But the latter could manage to get only three of the 70 seats there. 
 
 Soon after the SAD-BJP came to power in Punjab, the dera head was caught in a major controversy for allegedly imitating Guru Gobind Singh, which led to protests among Sikhs in Punjab and neighbouring states and Akal Takht issued an edict of severing ties with it. Conflicts took place between Sikhs and dera premis at quite a few places. Dera head never held any congregation in Punjab after that till now. It was alleged by its followers and Congress leaders that the SAD-BJP government was persecuting dera followers for supporting Congress.
 
 Though Bathinda police had registered a case against Dera head in May 2007 for hurting religious sentiments but for around five years police did not file a charge sheet and just three days before polling in 2012 it filed a cancellation report in a Bathinda court. The court finally discharged him in November 2014 after the police did not file the charge sheet. 
 
 According to information, scores of dera followers were supporting AAP and this directive may damage party’s prospects on some seats. While the support for the SAD-BJP may help the party at a few seats in Malwa region, but it may also backfire at other places as the step has the potential to alienate Panthic votes further from SAD when AAP has reportedly dented its support base. 
 
 
