BENGALURU: The   ( ) recently directed 600-odd varsities to include security features like photographs and unique IDs/Aadhaar numbers in students’ marks cards and degree certificates, saying they would help curb duplication and maintain transparency. While city universities have welcomed the directive, they say an infrastructure upgrade is needed for seamless implementation of the system. 

 Bangalore University registrar Prof KN Ninge Gowda said: “A lot will depend on how a university goes about the process. BU’s existing security mechanism for certificates includes 10 features like watermarks and hidden numbers, which only varsity officials can access. However, for a full-fledged Aadhaar-linked system, we need to establish a dedicated unit to verify Aadhaar cards. This will need infrastructure enhancement, which is not impossible but needs to be done with a lot of caution,” he explained.
 
 The administration of  , which will conduct admissions independently for the first time in July (it recently got the varsity status), is hopeful the system would be implemented by then. Dr Joseph VG, chancellor, said, “The move would help curb fraudulent activities. But we need to chalk out a plan first.”
 
 Implementation in a phased manner could be beneficial for the institution and the students, said Anand K Joshi, vice-chancellor, CMR University. “Adding the Aadhaar number to the marks card will add more authenticity and validity to higher education, the employment market, international universities and society,” he added. 
 
 
 
 
 The social security number, which carries every single detail about an American citizen, has had its own share of problems. Security breaches in the past have led to leaking of personal information. With this in mind, Ajoy Kumar, CEO of PES University, wondered whether privacy would be an issue in the Aadhaar mechanism. “We are putting in place security features in hall tickets. The only question is about maintaining privacy. What if the student’s Aadhaar number is known to another person? We need some clarification on this,” Kumar said.
 
 
 
 
 While Aadhaar may soon become an integral part of every Indian’s identity, for students from foreign countries a different mechanism is needed. Prof Joshi of CMR University said, “A mechanism should be created to link the passport details of international students to the certificates for verification of their credentials.” 
 
 Universities suggest a system to include passport or visa numbers in foreign students’ certificates could help. “It requires extreme precision and careful coordination with the   (FRRO). Another option is to issue separate secure cards to foreign students, which can work as their unique IDs while they study in India,” said Ninge Gowda.
 
 Prasanna Kumar, director, admissions,  , added, “It may not be entirely possible to bring foreign students under this system but universities should be given the authority to take a call in the best interest of the. Linking their certificates to their visas may be a good option. We need more clarity on the issue.”
 
