HYDERABAD: Police said on Tuesday they were checking whether they could file a rape case against a man arrested a few days ago for divorcing his wife of one week by scribbling “talaq“ thrice on a postcard.

 Deputy commissioner of police (South Zone) V Satyanarayana said the accused, Mohammed Haneef (38), a small-time realtor who was already married, wed the 26year-old woman on March 9 at   in the   .Barely a week into the marriage, Haneef divorced her by pronouncing   on a postcard that he sent to the woman.
 
 “We are examining all do cuments pertaining to the marriage which have been made available to us. We called for more documents. I am personally monitoring the case,“ Satyanarayana told TOI.
 
 Haneef was apprehended on March 30 after the victim lodged a compla int with the   vani Nagar poli ce. Police then discovered that the accused had married the woman after securing approval from his first wife.
 
 The woman, who police said was a divorcee, was unable to produce the talaqnama, or documents related to divorce, on the day of her wedding. Islamic jurisprudence does not permit a woman already in wedlock to marry . In a legal wrangle of marriage and postcard talaq in Old City, Mohammad Haneef has been accused of rape by his second bride. The wedding rituals were incomplete after she failed to produce divorce papers.
 
 “When the complainant did not produce divorce documents at time of her marriage to Haneef, deputy qazi did not use a standard nikah proforma, but took signatures of the complainant and the accused on some other papers. The understanding was that the nikahnama would be filled once the complainant's divorce documents were produced. He has two daughters from his first wife. He married the complainant in the hope of having a male child,“ said DCP South Zone, V Satyanarayana.
 
 Explaining the rationale for seeking to charge Haneef with rape, he said, “The complainant believed the marriage was valid and tried to lead a conjugal life. But there is no valid nikahnama. Further, only after one day , accused left her. He sent her a ta laq note six days later.“
 
 Police have not ruled out the possibility of arresting the nayab (deputy) qazi who solemnised the marriage, Basheer Moinuddin. Police will also get the victim's statement recorded before a magistrate.
 
