THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The government has suspended the officer who had given statement against vigilance director   in a probe into the alleged corruption in the purchase of a dredger while Thomas was the director of ports. The investigation by additional chief secretary (finance) K M Abraham had found serious corruption in the purchase. 

 Deputy director of ports, Hari Achutha Varrier, was suspended from the service by an order dated February 2 and delivered to the officers concerned on Monday upon the recommendation by vigilance and anti-corruption bureau. The VACB, which is probing another case in the ports department, found that Varrier, along with four other officers of the ports department, "entered into criminal conspiracy among themselves and with the office bearers of some cooperative societies who submitted tender for manual sand dredging at Azheekkal port in Kannur".
 
 The suspension order issued by ports department also said that the officer, who is the chairman of tender evaluation committee for selection of cooperatives for manual sand dredging, abused his official position and included some of the ineligible cooperative societies in the list which received the permit for dredging. The companies got undue pecuniary advantages through this, the order said.
 
 Though the vigilance also named Kozhikode port officer Aswani Prathap, Beypore port office assistant executive engineer M Viswanathan and Azheekkal port senior port conservator T P Manoj Kumar in the case, they have not been suspended. Some of the cooperative societies at Azheekkal are also facing vigilance probe.
 
 Interestingly, one of these societies is led by local   leader Sathyan Naravoor who had filed several petitions against Jacob Thomas before the central and state governments and various courts, alleging several irregularities in the ports department.
 
 Varrier, who was holding the charge of Maritime Institute, Neendakara, figures prominently in the report by K M Abraham on the basis of which chief secretary   had recommended police probe against Jacob Thomas.
 
 In his report on irregularities in the purchase of cutter suction dredger at a cost of Rs 19.5 crore, Abraham said that "Hari Achutha Varrier and finance officer ports Louis Fernandez are observed to have advised Jacob Thomas not to award the contract to M/s IHC but to award it to M/s BEML as they had offered the lowest bid".
 
 The report also says that Varrier stated before the finance inspection wing that as a member of technical committee for the purchase of dredger, he was under the impression that the supply of 1,000 metre-long pipe was part of the dredger purchase tender. Abraham said in his report that the loss on account of not insisting on including the pipeline in the dredger deal by Jacob Thomas had caused a loss of Rs 72.47 lakh to the exchequer.
 
 Meanwhile, Varrier has approached the government pleading innocence and he did not take any decision on manual dredging in Azheekkal port. He said that it was the then director of ports Jacob Thomas himself who had decided on the societies for which the minutes of the meeting is the proof. Also, the decision taken by that committee was subsequently cleared by high court. He said that it is to be suspected that pointing out the irregularities in the ports directorate is the actual reason for his suspension.
 
 
