New Delhi: A week after TOI first reported the rescue of a two-year-old boy after he had gone missing from his home in west Delhi, police have arrested the main accused in the kidnapping case. 

 According to the cops, the boy lives with his mother and younger sister at a rented house in   in west Delhi. Originally from  , the family had shifted to the city just 15 days before the incident took place. The main accused, Kishan, told police that initially, he had sold the boy to a childless couple for Rs 30,000 after kidnapping him on June 3. 
 
 His associate, Karan, was arrested just after the child was rescued in mid-June and thus, their plan to sell the boy to   was foiled. 
 
 Karan revealed the names of Kishan and his Bambam, who were nabbed on Wednesday. “A case was registered soon after we received a missing complaint. A team comprising SHO Hari Nagar, Rajesh Kumar, and SI Vikas launched a probe into the matter,” said Vijay Kumar, DCP (west). 
 
 Raids were conducted at Tihar village and  . Finally, Kishan and Bambam were arrested from Subhash Nagar crossing when they were trying to leave the city. 
 
 During interrogation, Kishan told police that he lived in Gandhinagar. Later, a childless couple from the same locality had approached him to help them adopt a baby. They were ready to pay a good sum of money for this job. 
 
 Kishan took this as an opportunity to earn quick money as he was planning to buy a car. He then roped in Karan and Bambam and hatched a plan to kidnap the the boy. Later, CCTV footage showed the boy being kidnapped while he was on his way home. 
 
 The accused got his hair shaved so that nobody could recognise him. The men handed over the child to the couple, saying they had brought him from an adoption centre. However, the woman smelt something fishy and refused to take the boy as the accused failed produce any papers. Bambam and Kishan then handed over the child back to Karan, who would sell him to traffickers. But, Karan was arrested the next day and the child was rescued.
 
 Police said Rs 52,000 in cash was recovered from the accused. 
 
 
