Surat: Around 60 wine shops and restaurants service liquor in Union territory of Daman have been served with closure notices by the administration following the   ban on sale of liquor within 500 metres of the state and national highway. 

 Official sources said that Daman’s excise department had started the survey of the wine shops and bars serving liquor and located within 500 metres of the state and national highway after the Supreme Court ruling banning the sale of liquor last month. 
 
 The excise officials carried out survey at Zari, Baman Puja and  , which are located close to the national and state highways. Around 60 wine shops, bar and restaurants serving liquor were identified for closure and the non-renewal of liquor licences till March 31, 2017. 
 
 Sources said around 30 wine shops and restaurants are located at Pataliya, which is the most popular spot for the tourists including the Bacchus from Surat to hang around during the weekends and otherwise. Being just six kilometres from the National Highway (NH)-8 and located on the state highway of Daman, Pataliya has been the hot spot, with many new wine and restaurants having opened after 2012. 
 
 All the signages and advertisements of the availability of liquor will be prohibited and existing ones be removed forthwith on national and state highways. No shop for the sale of liquor be visible from a national or state highway directly accessible within a distance of 500 metres of the outer edge.
 
 Wine shop owners said that the Supreme Court’s judgement will affect the tourism and render hundreds of people jobless. 
 
 “This will result in huge unemployment of the people associated with the industry,” said wine shop owner Pramod Tandel. 
 
 Tandel added, “If the judgement is followed strictly then the tourists visiting Daman will not be able to get liquor. Daman is spread over just 74 square kilometre area and surrounded by national, state and coastal highway.”
 
 Talking to TOI, LM Vaghela, excise inspector, Daman, said, “All these 60 wine shops and bars selling liquor have been operating for many years and some have old licences issued way back in 1990. Earlier, the Supreme Court had banned the sale of liquor within 100 metres of national and state highway. The national highway was declared in 2014 and now these old licence holders have been affected. We have asked them to shut the shops latest by March 31, 2017.”
 
