PUNE: A good monsoon in 2016 has ensured that Puneites won’t face water cuts this summer. 

 Guardian minister   on Monday said water will be supplied twice a day since there is enough stock in the four dams that give water to the city. He made the announcement after chairing the canal committee meeting and assessing the water storage level in the dams.
 
 “This year, the storage in Khadakwasla, Varasgaon, Temghar and Panshet is 10.26TMC (35.2%) against 6.25TMC on the same day last year. We have 4TMC more. The irrigation department has made the allocation for both city, rural, irrigation and non-irrigation purposes. We should be just about comfortable this year. Temghar dam is under repairs, but we should be able to manage with the existing storage till July 15,” Bapat said. 
 
 Pimpri Chinchwad too is comfortable with Pavana dam having 3.7TMC (43.48%) storage which would again mean no water cuts.
 
 Of the water to be used for non-irrigation purposes from Khadakwasla canal, Daund and   municipal councils would get 0.1TMC, 51 gram panchayats would get 0.7TMC and 0.07TMC would be used for industrial purposes. Similarly, of the water to be used from Pavana, PCMC would get 1.74TMC, the Wagholi water supply scheme 0.09TMC, Talegaon Municipal Council 0.04TMC and five gram panchayats 0.47TMC. About 0.3TMC would be used for industrial purposes. 
 
 Bapat directed the irrigation department to make a chart of all the dams in the district with storage levels as well as leakage problems. An action plan is needed for repairs to the other dams as well, he said.
 
 Irrigation department’s superintending engineer Atul Kapole said there were issues about leakages and shortage of staff. They were facing 40% staff shortage and would require police help to monitor leakages and lifting of water from the canal. “We would require three vigilance squads and four stationary squads from the police for Haveli, Daund and Indapur for 30 days when the water is released through the canal and for 15 days for Yavat, Patas, Daund and Indapur,” he said.
 
 The canal committee said an estimated 60% leakage in the 202-km new Mutha right bank canal needed rectification. Power supply should be disconnected to stop water thefts along the canal, Kapole said.
 
 Water societies should be set up and measures taken to promote lift irrigation methods as is done in rural areas to ensure better participation of the people, he added.
 
