BENGALURU: “What’s that number on your hand,” he had asked his patient once. That’s when the doctor realized he was, in fact, attending to a   survivor. 

 Bengaluru’s famous orthopaedic surgeon Dr Thomas A Chandy was one of the Indian doctors who treated Jewish survivors from concentration camps. The Jews, imprisoned by Adolf Hitler’s Nazi regime, would have the prisoner’s number tattooed on their left forehand for the purpose of identification, a mark they’d have to live with for life.
 
 Dr Chandy, a US-board certified orthopaedic specialist, who is now the medical director and chief of orthopaedics at Hosmat, has treated many Holocaust survivors during his stay in the US for over 17 years in the early 1980s. A team of Indian doctors who treated the Holocaust survivors met recently in the US. 
 
 There were patients from Poland, Czechoslovakia and Hungary who were Holocaust survivors. Some of them had lived in The Auschwitz concentration camp complex, the largest of its kind established by the Nazi regime. Dr Chandy worked in Downstate Medical College and Hospital, Lebanon Hospital, Bronx Lebanon Hospital in the New York. There were over 36 Indian doctors working with these hospitals, he recalls.
 
 “When the war ended, it was a shock for them, as they had thought they were close to death and their turn would come soon. I met them over 35 years after the Holocaust,” he says. According to him, over 2.5-3 million Holocaust survivors lived in the New York in 1980s and most of them were in their late 60s and 70s. They would visit the hospitals with complaints of broken bones. “I was in my early 20s and it was a shock for me to see these patients. It was quite an experience. During the Holocaust, they were young and used as labour force and therefore not killed,” Chandy told TOI.
 
 None of them were able to overcome the shock, agony, loss of loved ones, pain they went through during the Holocaust, he points out. “Some were happy that they survived. But they couldn’t overcome the shock of being so near to death and having survived with no family left behind,” he adds.
 
 Even decades after treating those patients, the interactions with them remain etched in Dr Chandy’s memory.
 
