Sundaresan C, a 41-year-old man from the city, who runs a home for visually challenged  , isn’t known just for his  , but for the inspiring story behind his journey so far. A humanitarian, he, too, is   and had to face many odds in life. But nothing could dampen his spirit to fight them and his dream to provide light in the lives of many visually challenged girl students who hail from several villages across the state, who otherwise would’ve been left in the lurch. He provides free accommodation and food to the students and looks after their education and well-being. One of the regrets he had during his younger days was that he couldn’t pursue higher education owing to lack of guidance and opportunities. That paved the way to starting a home for visually challenged girls who are interested in pursuing higher studies. “I believe that more than visually challenged boys, it is the girls who need such facilities,” he begins, adding, “Once they complete their school education, several questions arise in their families regarding their higher education. Among them, the most worrying factors for the parents would be pertaining to accommodation and safety if they’re sent to cities. There have been many cases where girls end up getting confined within the four walls of their houses because of this.”

 When he started the initiative in 2003, there were only five girls. Now, there are 30. “We have visually challenged girls from remote villages across Tamil Nadu. So far, more than 500 students have benefited from this,” says a proud Sundaresan. Looking back at his life, he says that he started losing his vision when he was in class 3. In a few years, his vision was badly affected in such a way that that he couldn’t continue his studies in a normal school. “Later, I was admitted in St Louis School For The Blind at Adyar. But later, my family had no means to send me to a regular college as it was around that time that my father passed away.
 
 And that left me with the only option of doing a correspondence course. Meanwhile, I worked as a volunteer, in a blind welfare trust,” he says. The experiences of working as a volunteer there instilled interest in him to continue doing social work. “In 2003, I started Goodwill Foundation of India and later registered as Gnanadarshan Seva Foundation for the Disabled,” he says.
 
 As expected, the going hasn’t been easy for him to run the home. “Four months after we started the home in Choolaimedu, we didn’t have money to pay rent. And debts started accumulating. But at every stage we were helped by many good souls. After being in four different rented places for so many years, a month ago, we moved to a new place in Metha Nagar. We bought this land with the help of our well-wisher, late Seethama, and her son. The construction of the building was also completed with the help of people like them. The monthly expenses of the home were also met the same way.” 
 Sundaresan also realises the importance of overall development of visually challenged students. “World is as competitive for these girls as it is for any other normal person. Things are even more tougher for such girls from villages. There are instances of visually challenged people being send out of companies because of their incompetency. The thing is that many of them lack soft skills to excel in career. Earlier, we had training programme for them to help them with spoken English and Hindi, computer training, etc. But we had to discontinue it for space constraints. Now, we are planning to revive that programme as we have more space for such activities within this new building,” he sums up. 
 
