MUMBAI: After a 22-year-old Mulund woman took to Facebook to describe how she was abused, flashed at and threatened of rape by a man in a Borivli-Dadar train in May, and the apathy of the cop who took her emergency call to the  , several others have come forward to share similar tales of torment on Mumbai's suburban network.

 The woman, who is doing her postgraduation in sociology in Bangalore, had particularly raised a finger at the policeman who took her call. She claimed that hearing her complaint, the cop first laughed at her and then hung the phone, which goes on to prove the callous manner in which police treats women's safety and security while travelling on trains.
 
 She perhaps gave courage to many others to open up against their tormentors. It was as if a dam had burst as several women narrated their ordeal.
 
 One of the reactions was: “I feel like thrashing the man. U know, I have faced a lot of abuse. Initially I did nothing just behaved as an escapist. Then I started yelling at them. But this doesn't work much...Then I started dealing (with it) in my own way.Whoever tries to touch me, I make a point that I WILL hurt them, pinching with safety pins, compass, thrashing & beating them.“
 
 Another wrote, “Something similar happened with me around 6-7 months ago, but I had no courage to post this or share it with someone else. I hope you're fine.“
  
  
 
 A few women passengers
 spoke to buttressed the reality -- harassment has become a part of the daily commute in the locals.
 
 Neha Singh, 24, who travels from Vasai to Churchgate every day, said “I have come across people making indecent gestures and passing obscene comments from moving trains. Sometimes, they even try to pounce on women walking on the platform from moving trains. They pass comments and sing obscene songs.“
 
 Jagriti, 24, a Lower Parel resident who also goes to Churchgate daily, added, “Even in a city like Mumbai, I take care to dress properly out of fear of grabbing unwanted attention of some perverts.“
 
 Asked why women generally shied from lodging formal complaints, 45-year-old Viji Jayachandran, an accountant from Kalyan, said, “Firstly, they are not sure whether the police will take action or not. Secondly, if action is indeed taken, if the arrested person comes out from jail, then that person might harass her. Thirdly, there is generally less confidence in women to visit a police station.“
 
 
 
 Western Railway, which ordered an inquiry into the incident after the post went viral, said that at 4.12 pm on May 24, Sayed Izhaar at helpline No. 182 received the woman's call and forwarded the same to Malad and Andheri stations, where the train was attended by constables Richpal Yadav and Ramesh Chand, respectively. It said that the recording of the said call has been verified and it is established that no RPF staffer laughed at the complainant.
 
 Ravinder Bhakar, chief public relations officer, WR, said, “Head constable Sayed Izhaar is being issued a charge sheet for not getting the train attended in time and not informing the inspector concerned. We have deployed female staff at the helplines.“
 
 
 
 According to the July 6 FB post, the woman, who was in the ladies compartment adjacent to the coach meant for physically challenged people, when the man first abused the girl sitting next to her and then her. He then flashed his private parts at them and began masturbating. She asked her fellow passengers for the railway helpline number, but before she could place the call, the train pulled in at Kandivli station.
 
 The accused got down and walked up to their coach even as the other women shouted at him and threatened to rape her. She also tagged his photograph (below), which she had clicked with her phone, with the post. 
  
  
 
 
