NAGPUR: COPD ( ) is commonly known as a disease of cigarette smokers. 

 But, ongoing research at   suggests that 50% of COPD patients are non-smokers. The hospital claims this is the first clinical study in the country on COPD in non-smokers. The study is drawing attention to the potential hazard of indoor air pollution, which can lead to COPD. In another section of the study, researchers are studying air pollutants inside the homes of non-smoking patients.
 
 KRIMS has collaborated with Dr Irfan Rahman, professor of environmental medicine at Rochester Medical Centre, United States, for the study. Rahman hails from Kamptee.
 
 According to the study, about 50% of COPD patients have never smoked a cigarette or bidi. Women accounted for 50% of all the COPD patients, with a big chunk of women being those who cook food on an open chulha or wood fire, which exposes them to smoke every day.
 
 The study aims to come up with standards to be followed during indoor cooking, and technologies needed to address indoor pollution. 
 
 KRIMS consultant pulmonologist Dr Sameer Arbat, who is also part of the research team, said, “We will be later forwarding the study to the government to formulate a policy. Dr Rahman will be helping us take the clinical research to the judicious level. He is already making similar efforts regarding environmental pollution in the United States.”
 
 The study on COPD began in February 2016, and the hospital plans to continue it for next two years. Dr Rahman, who stays in the US, keeps visiting the hospital every four months.
 
 Dr Rehman told TOI the ongoing research is in need of funds, and they have submitted a proposal to the central government to provide funds for the research to continue for two more years.
 
 Apart from this study, a profile based study of   patients too was conducted at   in association with Dr Rahman. During the swine flu outbreak in 2015, the hospital had treated 219 swine flu patients between December 2014 and March 2015, on whom the study was performed. The study was published in the Journal of Virus Medicine.
 
 The study showed that most swine flu patients were women, majority of them aged between 20 and 40, and most of them had a history of travelling. A common observation was that a number of them had diseases like diabetes and hypertension. Dr Arbat said, “That’s how it became easy to conclude that such patients can easily catch the virus.”
 
