Potatoes, our friends, have been condemned for the longest time now. So much so that even a lazy person is often named a couch potato.   are a staple in the Indian diet, and even then, often misguided to be the evil food of this century. Let us decode how they are healthy for us…
 
 
 
  
 Potatoes are packed with carbohydrates that can be easily burned by our body. Unlike the infinite theories, which surround this starchy food, the carbs present in potatoes are complex carbohydrates, which do not cause a boost in blood sugar immediately. Therefore, it is safe to say that ‘devil’ carbohydrates loaded in potatoes are good for us. Dissing them completely from our diet, may give us temporary gains and permanent damages.
  
 Another mistake that most of us end up making while consuming potatoes, is peeling off the skin. Potato skin is a rich source of fiber and should be consumed intact with the peel on. You can boil, stir-fry, bake, roast or even microwave potatoes with its peel on, and you will get a loaded source of fiber in your daily diet.
  
  
 
 
  
 Consequently, the biggest myth about potatoes is that they are fattening. This needs to be demolished right away. Potatoes can only be fattening with the way they are cooked, and not as a primary source for the same. If you’re eating them in the form of fried foods, they will be 100 per cent fattening. If potatoes are baked, roasted, cooked in minimal oil or even boiled, they are only full of vitamin C and vitamin B-6.
 
 The foremost thing we need to remember while consuming potatoes is the food combination. Since a medium sized potato contains 163 calories, we need to be careful to combine it with foods that are less heavy on your stomach and body to digest. Potatoes do not make our stomach bloated, but rather other foods that we end up consuming with them. For example, with fries, if you eat a burger, you will feel end up feeling bloated.
  
 Eating potatoes individually will satiate your hunger for a longer time and will also provide all its benefits. In our classic Indian diet, potatoes are cooked in the form of subzi and paranthas and hence, are one of the healthiest options for our desi bodies.
  
 
