Panaji: The recently-published order of the ministry of home affairs, empowering district collectors to inquire into the issue of acquiring citizenship of another country, has drawn mixed reactions. Advocate Cleofato Coutinho says a matter of such serious nature should be left entirely to the central government. 

 “The job of deciding who is an Indian citizen and who isn’t should remain with the central government. While the collectors will only give inputs on each case that will ultimately be decided by the central government, there are too many prejudices and influences at the local level. It would have been better if the state government was left out of it and the central government had retained the power to conduct inquiries,” he says.
 
 The order empowers the two district collectors to invite applications and objections after due publicity and conduct an inquiry in a fair and transparent manner keeping in mind the provisions contained in the Citizenship Act 1955 and the Citizenship Rules, 2009. After inquiry the district collector is expected to make recommendations to the central government, giving details of each case.
 
 Advocate Radharao Gracias suspects complaints will be filed against all, who have taken up foreign citizenship, to have them disqualified before the upcoming panchayat elections. But he also feels that this is an opportunity to settle the issue once and for all, and clear ambiguities. 
 
 “The first few cases decided by the central government will set a precedent. I’m looking forward to arguing that mere registration of birth doesn’t amount to citizenship. The matter will be finally settled once it goes up to the high court and the Supreme Court. If the home ministry order is not challenged it will become the law,” he says. 
 
 MP Shantaram Naik says the order has come a litte too late and adds that his bill wasn’t taken up where he suggested an amendment to the Citizenship Act, 1955, by inserting a clause in Section 9, to read as: “...provided further that no citizen of India, shall be deemed to have lost his citizenship merely on grounds of his or her availing the facility conferred by the order enacted by Portuguese government, of registering their births in Portugal, to the Indians citizens, residing in the territory of erstwhile Union territory of Goa, Daman and Diu and the Union territory of Dadra and Nagar Haveli, then ruled by the government of Portugal, unless such Indian citizens voluntarily apply for the citizenship of that country with specific intension of renouncing the citizenship of India.” 
 
 The order, he said, would further complicate the matter. 
 
 
