BENGALURU: An alleged HIV positive man tries to force himself on his wife. In self-defence, the   in his testicles and he dies. Although it may seem like an open-and-shut case, an incident like this could   in a catch-22 situation, say experts.

 On Sunday, Arun Kumar (name changed), died when his 35-year-old wife, Rohini Kumar (name changed), allegedly kicked him in the testicles. The incident occurred at Byatarayanapura, west Bengaluru. Rohini, a homemaker, said her husband, who was HIV positive, tried to force himself on her. “I reacted in self-defence,” Rohini told cops. However, investigators have also found an injury on Arun’s head.
 
 While, Bengaluru police have booked the woman on charges of murder, a closer look at the case shows how complex it is. Even if a person is charged with murder, Section 100 of IPC provides exception in case the act is committed in self-defence. According to conditions laid down under this section, death during self-defence (including in case of a rape attempt) is justified. 
 
 Now, though Rohini has told police that her husband tried to rape her despite her objecting, the law may not be able to come to her rescue. This is because it’s her husband who tried to rape her and the Indian legal system doesn’t recognize marital rape, making it difficult to use rape as a reason for self-defence.
 
 In 2012, the   had even observed that denying sex in marriage is an abuse. However, this particular case gets all the more complex because the husband was allegedly HIV positive. This means, allowing an intercourse could have threatened the woman’s life and well-being. 
 
 In this backdrop, does an act of self-defence in an attempt to avoid rape which could have actually threatened the woman’s life amount to murder? M T Nanaiah, a prominent defence lawyer in the city, feels the case doesn’t amount to murder. “In any murder case, there are three important things: intent, weapon and vitality of the body part that’s attacked. From the details available in this case, the woman didn’t kick with the intention of murdering him, but to avoid being raped. Next, neither did she use a weapon nor plan the attack. And finally, groin can’t be considered a vital body part that could lead to death. There have been cases where private parts have been cut and people have still survived,” he said.
 
 Nanaiah said the case amounted to culpable homicide not amounting to murder, provided the claims made by the woman that her husband was HIV positive and that he tried to rape her are proven.
 
 QUESTIONS REMAIN
 
 While evidence may suggest her helplessness, the only point of contention is the woman’s attempt to cover up the murder. “We came to know about the murder following a tipoff. Not like the woman came forward and reported it to us. When we reached the house, preparations were on for his funeral. Following questioning and inspection of the body, we learnt that it was a case of unnatural death and booked a case. Her attempts to cover up the death, despite having circumstantial evidence in her favour still points a finger at her,” said an investigator. 
 
 Right to private defence, discussed in Section 100 of IPC, is a very complex section. Even in genuine cases, proving the circumstances which led to the murder in self-defence is an uphill task, said  , former DG & IGP. “This case has multiple layers, starting with her claim that it was a murder in self-defence. Even though rape by husband doesn’t have a legal status, him being HIV positive adds a new dimension. At the same time, the alleged attempt to conceal the murder and the head injury makes it even more complicated. In 99.9% cases, police officers won’t close the case citing self-defence. So, this will be a challenge for investigators, forensic teams and most importantly, the court,” he explained.
 
