
 NEW DELHI: Captain   and her squad of wonder women made everyone sit up and take notice in the World Cup. We rate their performances.
 
 
  The 27-year-old pint-sized opener with rock-solid defence was one of India’s consistent performers hitting one ton (106 against Australia) and two big half centuries (86 & 86 in both games versus  ). Her innings in the final almost anchored India home and her 47 against Pakistan was critical in the low-scoring contest.
 
 
  The 21-year-old from Sangli faded away after an explosive start (90 against England, 106 v Windies). Now must go back to the drawing board and sort out her weakness against overpitched deliveries.
 
 
  India’s highest scorer (409) displayed compact technique as batter and admirable calm as skipper. Her 109 against New Zealand, a virtual knock-out game, was the bedrock of India’s innings. Her early run-out in the final was avoidable.
 
 
  The Moga girl’s blockbuster unbeaten 171 single-handedly ensconced women’s cricket in India’s consciousness. Also made handy assists with ball.
 
 
  The Agra teenager emerged as a genuine allrounder in the tournament. Became India’s top scalper (12) with her offbreaks. Was shuffled around as a batter but struck a winning half-century against Lanka (78). Her run-out of the dangerous Katherine Brunt with a direct throw in the final underlined her skills as a top fielder.
 
 
  The 24-year-old from Karnataka brought daring, adventure and a much-needed strike-rate (112) to the Indian team. Played rather recklessly and got out to an intemperate stroke in the final. Super fielder.
 
 
  Unimpressive to begin with, Bengal’s warrior woman improved dramatically with every game to end with 10 wickets. Produced the ball of the championship to dismiss Australia’s Meg Lanning, world’s finest bat. Saved her best for last, bowling a super second spell (3/23) in the final.
 
 
  Overall kept neatly and scored a vital quick-fire 33 against Pakistan. Erred behind the stumps and got out to an injudicious sweep to blot her copybook in the final.
 
 
  Her prodigious swing fetched her early wickets. Dived with abandon always giving 100 percent as a fielder. Gave away 7-0-53-0 in the final, including 14 in her final over. Her run-out was a brain-freeze moment.
 
 
  The 25-year-old leg spinner from Agra displayed a commendable fearlessness in flighting the ball. Earned 11 wickets, second-highest in the team. Also most economical.
 
 
  The Uttarakhand left-arm spinner’s 5/18 demolished Pakistan. But her expensive outings against SA (2/68) and Aus (0/55) cost her the place in the team.
 
 
  Replaced Bisht in the last three games. Sent Kiwis to doom with 5/15 in the virtual quarterfinal, but showed a lack of guile and penetration in the semis and final
 
 
  Was largely unimpressive in the three games she played.
 
 
  The medium pacer showed pluck and potential in her two games.
 
 
 
 
