MANGALURU: We all knew that Mangaluru’s ambient air quality was not in the pink of health - if not at all places, but at some major stress points in the city.

 This has been proved right by a study done by   (APD) Foundation ‘Shudda Gaali’ in their #StopSmokyVehicles campaign to assess air quality of Mangaluru city in association with St George’s Homeopathy, Padil. OneEarth Enviro Labs tested the air quality and compared it with the ambient standards in India.
 
 The study results have made the   demand the DK district administration to make available CNG in the city so that public transport can shift to CNG at the earliest and also recommend the use of BS-IV vehicles, failing which the situation may worsen and avoid further damage before the city reaches an irreversible point. 
 
 The drive selected 12 locations in Mangaluru city and the timings of air quality at each locations was decided based on peak hour traffic and was carried on for a duration of eight hours after. Six outdoor air pollutants were measured in the drive. They were particulate matter (PM); PM10 (inhalable particles, with diameters that are generally 10 micrometres and smaller) and PM2.5 (fine inhalable particles, with diameters that are generally 2.5 micrometres and smaller). Once inhaled, these particles can affect the heart and lungs and cause serious health effects. The other pollutants are: Nitrogen Dioxide (NO2); Sulphur Dioxide (SO2) and lead.
 
 Of the six parameters measured, PM2.5, PM10 and lead have been observed to exceed the permissible limits in a few locations. The study noted the observations was only indicative and further investigations and air quality measurement extended over different seasons will be required to arrive at concrete conclusions.
 
 The study found the overall air quality was good in most locations in the city, especially with respect to SOx and NOx, which were well within the permissible limits. But PM2.5 and PM10 were found to be high in three of the 12 locations (Bunts Hostel, Pumpwell and Baikampady), and PM2.5 alone in six of the 12 junctions (PVS junction, Bunts Hostel, Bunder, MCC, Pump Well and Baikampady).
 
 Lead levels were measured at nine locations, of which, in seven locations the levels were found to exceed the permissible standard. 
 
 The reason attributed was that in six of the locations (PVS junction, Bunts Hostel, Bunder, Central Market, MCC and Attavara), it could be due the predominant use of fuel with lead in it and in Baikampady, possibly due to the presence of petrochemical industries.
 
 The study also noted that in two of the 12 junctions (Bunts Hostel and Baikampady), the ambient air quality standard was bad with respect to PM2.5, PM10 and lead.
 
 The study recommended regular checking of vehicular emissions in the six locations that were found to have high levels of PM2.5 (PVS junction, Bunts Hostel, Bunder, MCC, Pump Well and Baikampady) and strict Enforcement of Section 190(2) in The Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 & Rule 115 /116 of Central Motor Vehicle Rule 1989s.
 
