PUNE: The 55% turnout in Pune has rattled the city BJP unit while the NCP is hoping to regain power. However, BJP leaders in Pimpri Chinchwad said a 67% voter turnout is an indication of  .

 The BJP’s city unit chief Yogesh Gogawale said the voting pattern and the trend in the city will benefit the party. “I am confident that people have voted for good governance. Voters are experiencing BJP rule at the Centre as well as the state. People want similar governance in Pune,” Gogawale added. 
 
 He claimed that there was a vicious campaign against the BJP and ‘unnecessary’ importance was given to CM Fadnavis’ meeting that was cancelled due to response from citizens. “Opponents targeted BJP and hit below the belt.  , Uddhav and   made sarcastic comments and I think voters from the city will provide an answer through the ballot box. However, we played the role of a responsible political party,” Gogawale stated.
 
 BJP city unit chief for Pimpri Chinchwad and MLA Laxman Jagtap stated that the rise in voting percentage was in favour of BJP. “We will win majority seats in PCMC,” Jagtap said. 
 
 According to NCP’s Pune city unit chief and Rajya Sabha MP Vandana Chavan, the party was expecting a larger voter turnout. “Even so, we are confident that NCP will get a clear majority and continue to prevail in the civic body,” Chavan said. The NCP leader added that her party’s campaign revolved around the development works undertaken by the party over the last decade. 
 
 NCP’s Pimpri Chinchwad chief Yogesh Behl also echoed Chavan’s sentiment on the high voting percentage.
 
 Shiv Sena leaders also expressed confidence at the party’s performance. “We have ensured that our supporters come out to vote. Shiv Sena is sure to gain from the voting trend in the city. However, there was some apathy among voters who have traditionally voted for the BJP-Sena combine,” Sena leader Shyam Deshpande stated.
 
 Congress Pune unit chief Ramesh Bagwe pointed out that voters from slums, middle-class as well as working-class voters have cast their ballot in big number. “Voters from these pockets are traditionally Congress supporters and we will definitely increase our tally in PMC,” Bagwe said, even as he agreed that the pre-poll alliance with NCP helped the party avoid division of votes.
 
