MELBOURNE: Twelve months ago,   was another of those players lying in the shadows of the mighty  . The 28-year-old German could have remained that way, or worse, slipped further into oblivion had Misaki Doi of Japan converted a match-point in the second set of the opening round at the Australian Open. Instead, Kerber returns to the year's first Grand Slam as the World No. 1 and holder of two major titles, including the Daphne Akhurst Cup. And, oh, there was the silver medal from the Rio Olympics as well! 

 “I still remember the match very well. I think that point where I was match point down was the important point for my career. You never know if I had lost that match what would have happened thereafter,” Kerber, the first German woman to win a Grand Slam since Steffi Graf in 1999, said Sunday.
 
 Now, of course, things have changed - both on and off the court. Besides the pressure of expectations, the new stardom has brought with it a rash of endorsements and the resultant commitments.
 
 “I have much more things to do,” the Poland-born German grinned. “I mean, the day's schedule is a little bit tighter than it was 12 months ago.
 
 “But in the end I'm still trying to do my things like I was doing before. My game is always what it was like a few months, a few years ago. It (the top ranking) is just a number before my name. I will try, of course, to stay as long as possible there.”
 
 Kerber has French Open champion Garbine Muguruza as well as Doi and veteran   in her quarter of the women's draw. Simona Halep, the Romanian fourth seed, is also in the top half while Karolina Pliskova, whom Kerber beat in the US Open final, and Williams are in the bottom half.
 
 Kerber made early exits in the two tournaments she played this year, losing in the second round in Sydney and quarterfinals in Brisbane. But the German tried to put a positive spin on it.
 
 “I think it was good to being a little bit earlier here, to get used to everything, to do all the things I have to do off and on the court,” she said.
 
 Coming in earlier than last year when she reached the final in Brisbane, Kerber had been able to relive the magical moments of the Rod Laver arena.
 
