
I was a production manager for films like 'Kitne Door Kitne Pass' and 'Jaago'. I did 'Kagaar' (Sahara TV) and 'Dhadkan' (Sony TV) for Aqua Pictures. I then started working for Shakuntalam Telefilms as production head in 2004. Our first show was 'Reth' (Zee TV) and 'Banoo Main Teri Dulhann' (Zee TV), which turned to be the flagship show at that time. In 2009, I did ' ' (Colors). After that, I did 'Rakshak' (Life OK) and ' ' (Colors). My last show with   was 'Hello Pratibha' (Zee TV). The reason I parted with the company was to start my own production house. 
  
 
 
 'Meri Durga' is based on the relationship between a father and a daughter. A concept that we started working on in 2015. Anyone can relate to it as every father wants his child to study and learn. It has not been explored much on television. We have set the story around a financially-backward family in a village. I am myself from a village and could relate to it. Almost every village has this story of bad economic conditions, where children don't have money for proper education, but every parent wants their child go to the school.
 
 
 
 This title is very close to me. Since the show is based on the relationship of a father and the daughter, I've kept the daughter's name as Durga. The show's title, 'Meri Durga', which can be interpreted as 'my daughter'. There could not have been a better title than this.
  
 
 
 To be honest, it does not just support girl education, but throws light on the education system on the whole in India. Through this show, we also want to give out a message to the parents to not force studies on their child and instead encourage their innate talent. Education is important, but the child also possesses other qualities that matter. Girl education has improved a lot in India, so we are giving importance to education system on the whole.
  
 
 
 Ravindra is my wife Shaika Parween's close friend. Her first show 'Karam Apna Apna' was directed by him. She introduced me to him in 2012, when he was looking for a person to handle the creative and the production part of the company. He looks after all the creative part of the company and I handle the production. We make a good team. I hope this association continues like this forever.
  
 
 
 I personally feel that it does not work this way in the industry. It's like reading a novel, we do not read it unless we like it. It is the same with TV shows. Our content is good and imparts some good Indian values. So if the audience like the content, then they will definitely watch it regardless of the time slot. We wanted to change the time slot initially, but changed our minds as I believe that if you're showing something nice to the audience, they will watch it irrespective of the timings.
 
  
  
