Thane: After spending decades in research about the trends in the population, habitats and lifestyles of threatened, rare and migratory bird species,   enthusiasts and environmental organisations are now turning their attention to the common local bird species in the city. 

 Over the past one year,   and birding   in and around the lake city have organised, if not participated in, numerous bird counts of locally seen birds, including the house sparrow, the rock pigeon, the baya weaver, the egret, the cormorant and so on.
 
 These experts point out that in the quest of studying and analysing information about the threatened and rarely seen birds that visit the city occasionally, there is very little known on the common birds in the city. Famed birder and avifauna expert Avinash Bhagat, who is a member of city-based NGO Paryavaran Dakshata Manch, said, “A few years ago, there was a huge uproar about the depleting house sparrow population in the city. We then realised that although we were so accustomed to seeing sparrows and could gauge the drop in their numbers, there was no statistical data and analysis on their count. This meant that we couldn’t actually figure out the extent to which the count had dropped.”
 
 “Now that the sparrow feeders and pigeon feeders have been made easily available by citizens across the city, we can see a rise in the number of their sightings, but again without any numerical data. This is why we cannot study the change in their life cycle. In order to put an end to this uncertainty, many groups have begun common bird counting wherein they monitor birds, including sparrows, pigeons, the red vented bulbul, barn owls and other such birds,” added Bhagat.
 
 While environmentalists assert that it will take a couple of years to actually understand the increasing or decreasing trend in the population of these birds, it is crucial that efforts are taken to begin the process. Nandakishor Dudhe, birding expert heading the Common Bird Monitoring Programme (CBMP) started by the   (BNHS) last year, said, “Understanding the trends in the lifestyle of commonly seen birds is extremely crucial as it reflects the bettering or worsening of the environment which they thrive in. Based on the trend and status of these bird species, we can actually take steps to help their conservation as well as the awareness among citizens about it.”
 
 He added that since this data is almost non existent, the BNHS began common bird monitoring programme in July 2016, wherein bird counts on bird species, including the baya weaver, rock pigeon and house sparrow were held. Bird watchers and citizens across the state were roped in to contribute their sightings. “While it takes at least five years to get a proper idea about the trend in the lifestyle and habitats of these birds, we have made a start. Conservation activities will start later,” he said.
 
 Now that the sparrow feeders and pigeon feeders have been made easily available by citizens , we can see a rise in the number of their sightings, but again without any numerical data. This is why we cannot study the change in their life cycle. In order to put an end to this uncertainty, many groups have begun common bird counting wherein they monitor birds, including sparrows, pigeons, the red vented bulbul, barn owls and other such birds
 
 
