New Delhi: A Delhi University student’s bid to win a   burger eating competition recently landed him in hospital. Doctors found that the chilli consumed by him had burnt the inner lining of the   leading to heavy   inside.

 “If he hadn’t been brought to the hospital in time, the boy would have died,” said Dr Deep Goel, who heads the bariatric surgery department at BLK super-specialty hospital.
 
 The incident occurred about two months ago. Mukesh (name changed) went to a restaurant in Rajouri Garden with his friends, who had organised the chilli   eating competition.
 
 The task was to eat the maximum chilli burgers. The winner stood to get free burgers for the next two months. Mukesh took the plunge braving sweat and burning sensation in his stomach. He finished five burgers, called double-decker burgers, and won the competition.
 
 However, within minutes he developed abdominal pain and started vomiting blood. Mukesh’s parents rushed him to BLK super-specialty hospital where endoscopy — visualising internal organs through specialised instruments — revealed heavy bleeding in the stomach.
 
 “Chilli has chemicals that damage the protective inner lining of the stomach leading to bleeding inside. In Mukesh’s case, more than 800 millilitres of blood had collected inside, which was subsequently taken out,” Dr Goel said, adding that within 12 hours surgery had to be conducted again to stop further bleeding and remove the damaged part of the inner linings of the stomach. Mukesh is in a stable condition now.
 
 Doctors said every person has a different tolerance level or sensitivity to chilli. “The damage to the stomach depends of the quality and quantity of the chilli. But the key takeaway is that you should not consume more than you can tolerate. You should stop eating chilli when it causes discomfort or intolerable burning sensation,” said a doctor.
 
 Last year, TOI had reported about a two-year-old girl who accidentally took a bite of chilli and died of respiratory failure despite medical intervention.
 
 The child’s autopsy conducted at AIIMS said that death was caused by gastric fluids getting into the respiratory tract. The rare incident reported a few months ago and has now been published in the Medico-Legal Journal. The report said the girl vomited several times, resulting in fluids getting into the windpipe.
 
 Doctors said it is possible that gastric fluids or vomit aspirated into the windpipe of the girl and choked her. Though doctors at a local hospital managed to revive her initially, the girl died within 24 hours.
 
