DEHRADUN: Prime Minister  's 'Sabka Saath, SabkaVikas' (Collective Efforts, Inclusive Growth) to be the main agenda of the newly-elected BJP government in Uttarakhand led by chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat, is increasingly clear from the budget outline laid by governor K K Paul on Friday, the first day of the six-day Budget Session. "My government will work for the overall development of the state. The aim is to ensure overall deve- lopment for the welfare of the people by providing good governance," said Paul, while addressing the Vidhan Sabha, which met for the first time after the new government came into being. 

  Outlining the BJP government's development plan for the state after it was elected by a resounding majority, the governor also laid stress on the development of tourism, education, health, agriculture, infrastructure and youth and women empowerment. 
 
  Touching upon the contentious issue of making Gairsain - located in Chamoli district of Garhwal division - the state capital, which saw the BJP and the Congress at loggerheads on more than one occasion in the past, the governor said, "Efforts will be made to improve the infrastructure at Gairsain, and with the consent of everyone, work will be initiated to make it the summer capital of the state." 
 
  Accenting on the state's tourism potential, the governor said adventure and medical tourism could be promoted to give a boost to the sector. 
 
  Ancient temples would be restored and more facilities would be provided for the convenience of pilgrims, he said. "In order to boost industries," said Paul, "the government will create a positive atmosphere to bring new industrial sectors in the state, creating fresh job avenues for the youth." 
 
 Paul said the state government intended to bring unorganised sector workers - comprising labourers, people working in hotels, shops and as domestic aid, rickshaw pullers, newspaper hawkers and many other - under the ambit of   (a health insurance scheme).
 
  Noting that improving educational infrastructure was not an easy task, the governor said, "The government is determined to take some major steps to improve the sector. Boarding schools for girls will be opened in all districts. Besides, the government intends to provide financial help to meritorious students hailing from financially weaker sections," he said. He also read out the state government's commitment to encourage research in astrology, architecture, ancient Sanskrit texts and the spiritual aspect of Hinduism. 
 
 Talking about the healthcare services, which need a great deal of overhaul in the state, the governor said, "The state government aims to strengthen the ambulance service and provide better facilities at government hospitals." This is the first part of the budget session, which will last for six days, however, the budget will be presented when the second part of the session resumes in June-July.
 
 
