NEW DELHI:   chief   addressed the parliamentary party meeting on Thursday in the absence of PM   who was travelling, underlining his unofficial number two position in the hierarchy.

 The event was even more significant as Thursday marked the foundation day of the BJP and Modi had left for Jharkhand for an engagement. After garlanding the bust of Deen Dayal Upadhyay at the party headquarters, Shah exhorted MPs to cheerfully spread the party's agenda after receiving strong support from the people.
 
 He asked party lawmakers to draw a comprehensive winning chart from “Kashmir to Kanyakumari“, so that the party improved its performance in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. “We should focus on regions where the party hasn't done well so far for which `NaMo track record' of governance should be shared with the people,“ Shah said.
 
 Asking party MPs not to be complacent, Shah asked them not to sit back after getting 272 seats (majority mark in Lok Sabha) but aim for more.The BJP had won 282 seats in the 2014 polls. “You have NaMo (Narendra Modi) track record starting from Gujarat before you. Take the NaMo role model of good governance and development to the masses... Modi had said in 2014 that the three factors of casteism, family rule and appeasement fail Indian politics. People had dealt a blow to these factors by voting for BJP in 2014.They have done it again in the recent Uttar Pradesh polls. We have vowed to rid polity of these ills," he said.
 
 Parliamentary affairs minister   briefed reporters following the meeting and said apart from promoting digitisation and Bhim app, a digital payment interface, party leaders will also inform the masses about benefits of the goods and services tax (GST) during the period.
 
 Shah said BJP was the only party out of over 1,600 registered outfits which had spread on the strength of its ideology and which practised internal democracy by holding organisational polls every three year.
 
 Its governments were run on three-point agenda of good governance, development and welfare of poor, the BJP chief said. 
 
