NAGPUR: After an unsatisfactory report by four-member committee headed by   director BC Khatua to review taxi and   rickshaw fare hike in the past three years, the transport department has decided to invite citizens’ feedback to decide tariff. The forms are available online on transport department’s website — www.transport.maharashtra.gov.in. Advocate Girish Godbole, former transport commissioner DG Jadhav and chartered accountant  , are the other committee members.

 Earlier, the committee visited many cities and took suggestions of representatives of autorickshaw, taxi unions, Grahak Panchayat and other organizations regarding fixing fares of auto rickshaw and taxis.
 
 The committee come across various problems during the meetings. Auto unions suggested a hike, while consumer representatives complained about reluctance of auto drivers to ply by meter. It also received complaints that auto unions don’t allow App-based taxi providers to pick up passengers from the railway station.
 
 The committee submitted its report on the hikes carried out as per the Hakim panel formula to the government after completing reviews of all RTOs in the state.
 
 With differences of opinions among representatives of auto rickshaw/taxi unions, Grahak Panchayat and other organizations in the report submitted by the committee, the transport department has decided to invite feedbacks of citizens, said regional transport officer  .
 
 In the feedback form, the department has asked what should be the first stage distance for auto rickshaws for fixing fare in any city limits or in rural area and has given three options 1 km, 1.5 km and 2 km. Similarly, for taxis for fixing minimum fare, it has sought feedback on same options as was asked for auto rickshaw fares. 
 
 With poor enforcements on auto rickshaws to ply by meters, it is literally a free run for auto rickshaws in the city. Even after introduction of electronic meters, the regional transport office have failed to rein in auto rickshaw drivers and make them stick to metre fares.
 
 The sorry state of affairs is also that the special toll-free number (18002333388) set up by the department for the public to register fare-related complaints is also as good as defunct.
 
 Officials of the transport department claimed they had been getting a number of calls every week. Commuters too experience the same and pointed out that it failed to bring about any change. Autos here don’t ply by meters and demand a flat rate, often Rs50-100 more than the usual fare if they ply by meter. There are more than 15,000 auto rickshaws in the city. Either the toll-free number was not well publicized or the RTO do not serious to solve the issue.
 
