AHMEDABAD: Eighteen-year-old   passed her class XI examination last year, but won’t be able to take the   this year. The obstacle is her class X marksheet, which shows that she failed her class X board exams two years ago.

 This case is from  , where despite failing the class X exam, Thanki was admitted to the higher secondary section. She managed to pass class XI and then sought to take the class XII board exams.
 
 In her class X exams (commerce), conducted by the Gujarat Secondary and Higher Secondary Education Board (GSHSEB) in March 2015, she had failed to score the passing marks in every subject. However, when her internal exam marks were added, her scores crossed 35% in all subjects. She thought that she had passed class X and applied for admission to class XI at Gokani Girls School for Arts and Commerce.
 
 Surprisingly, she was granted admission and even cleared class XI last year. She continued in class XII, but when she was about to fill the the form for the board exams, the school authorities realized their goof-up. The school asked Janvi to bring her class X marksheet for verification. On finding that she had failed class X, the school seized her class XI marksheet and refused to accept her form for the board exams.
 
 Janvi moved Gujarat high court, where her advocate M I Mansuri argued that the miscalculation of class X marks was a bonafide mistake by her. But as she successfully cleared class XI, she has the right to take the   this year. She asked the HC to direct the school to release her class XI marksheet and to tell GSHSEB let her take the exams this year.
 
 The school authorities admitted in court that they had made a mistake in giving admission to Janvi on the basis of a marksheet which reflected that she had failed the exam. 
 
 After hearing both parties, the HC rejected   on the grounds that she cannot be allowed to take the class XII exam without having cleared the class X examination, simply on the basis of a mistake committed two years ago.
 
