THANE: Get ready to beat the heat, as according to the  , this summer will be one of the hottest and longest summers in the state so far. The authorities are trying their best to inform the   residents to stay hydrated and prefrably remain indoors during this hot season.

 The state   has sent out a 22-point advisory in order to curb any incidents of heat strokes. The advisory mentions to stay well hydrated and wear light clothes. It also mentions not to keep children in closed parked vehicles. 
 
 In a letter sent to the Thane Municipal Corporation, the state disaster management authority has pointed out that the IMD predictions indicate that this summer will be one of the hottest and longest summers in the state and the department should ensure that precautions are taken to avoid any heat-wave related fatalities.
 
 Mahesh Palawat, chief meteorologist at skymetweather.com, said, “Unlike past few years, the temperatures began rising a little early this year. In addition to this, there may be lesser thundershowers in the northern states which may increase the mercury levels above the normal levels in the southern states.”
 
 “In coastal areas like Mumbai and Thane, the humidity will also increase with the heat waves, which will then increase the chances of fatalities this summer. This is why it is essential that citizens take every precaution from staying hydrated to keeping away from the heat in the coming months,” Palawat added.
 
 While the maximum temperature in the city has already exceeded 40 degrees Celsius, the mercury levels on the other days are almost as high on the other days as well. The civic authorities are latching on to every form of media to get this message across to the lake-city denizens.
 
 “We are reaching out to the locals through social media and other such platforms in addition to sending out notices to societies urging them to take the necessary precautions this summer,” said Santosh Kadam, disaster management officer at the Regional Disaster Management Cell (RDMC).
 
 
