Diabetes, over time, can affect many parts of our body including gastrointestinal tract. Almost 75% of people with   report significant GI symptoms. Diabetes can affect the entire GI tract from the oral cavity and esophagus to the large bowel and  .

 One of the major conditions is Gastroparesis, also, known as stomach paralysis. It happens when the vagus nerve, which controls how quickly your stomach empties, gets damaged. When it’s damaged, it slows down the   and food stays in body for a longer period of time than required. Symptoms of gastroparesis include heartburn, nausea, vomiting, trouble controlling blood sugar, early satiety, abdominal bloating, poor appetite and weight loss. However, it is common in type 1 diabetes, but people with type 2 diabetes can also get it. 
 Gastroparesis also adversely affects your blood sugar levels.
 
 Diabetics may also lead to development of fungal infections in your GI tracts, particularly when diabetes is poorly controlled. Yeast infection in mouth can occur as a thick white coating on the tongue and throat along with pain and burning. If this extends further, it could result into the fungal condition- candida esophagitis, which causes intestinal bleeding, heartburn, and difficulty in swallowing. Oral infections can be diagnosed easily, while, candida esophagitis needs endoscopy for accurate diagnosis. Fortunately, effective treatments are available for the eradication of the yeast infection. 
 
 Individuals with diabetes also have an increased risk of celiac sprue, an allergy to wheat gluten. This leads to inflammation and thinning of the mucosa of the small intestine. The link between diabetes and celiac sprue is not clear, however, it may lead to diarrhea, weight loss, and mal-absorption of food. People with a long history of diabetes may suffer from frequent diarrhea. As many as 20 % diabetic patients reported frequent diarrhea; this may be due to problems in the small bowel or colon. Abnormally rapid transit of fluids may occur in the colon, leading to increased stool frequency and urgency. 
 
 Gastric problems are common in diabetes but not commonly recognized in clinical practice. The duration of diabetes and the control of your blood sugar are major determinants in the incidence and severity of GI problems. If you have diabetes, the best way to avoid gastric problems is to keep an eye on what you eat and keep your blood sugar under control. 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
