GURUGRAM: Residents across the privately developed areas in Gurgaon see the MCG   of their colonies as their major demand and are likely to   for the candidates who they think can help and expedite the process.

 “The councillors themselves say they do not have much say in most of the matters in the civic body. However, all the three candidates in our area are connected to the BJP which is in power in the state and the Centre, and they can help us reach the government for expediting the takeover process,” said Yoginder Amberdar, a resident of  .
 
 Ardee City was initially up for takeover by the corporation in the first phase. However, it hit a hurdle and the process is currently on hold. 
 
 Residents of   are sailing on the same boat. The takeover process is already underway for Suncity, but the residents are quite upset over the delay in the process. Though they do not have much interest in the election process, but are inclined to vote for the candidates who can help them expedite the   takeover process.
 
 “The earlier councillors did not do anything in the area and neither we expect the new councillor to do anything. However, we will vote for the candidates who have strong links with the government so that our demands can reach the people in power,” said VMK Singh, secretary of Suncity RWA.
 
 Another area where the residents have been pushing for the takeover aggressively is South City II. Here also the takeover process is yet to start.
 
 “We have been paying taxes for the past eight areas to the corporation, but the MCG doesn’t spend a penny on maintenance in the area. Our only hope is the complete takeover by the corporation. And we will try and work with the new councillor to expedite that process,” said KK Singh, RWA member, South City II.
 
 Residents of Sushant Lok-1 who have been long campaigning for ‘No Roads, No Votes’ say now that the takeover process is over, their main focus is its timely completion. “We would definitely vote for the candidate who would help us finish the takeover process in a timely manner,” said AK Nagpal, president, Sushant Lok RWA.
 
