MEERUT: A day after raids at the house of a retired Colonel and his shooter son unearthed 44 guns, 117kg of ‘wild’ meat and parts of protected animals, police arrested a Slovenian national and two Delhi shooters on Monday in the poaching and international arms smuggling racket that appears to be getting bigger. 

  officials said the arrests may only be the tip of an iceberg as the network of poachers and arms smugglers unravels. One of those arrested is the father of two national shooters. “Boris Sobotic Mikolic, a Slovenian arms dealer, and two Delhi shooters — Amit Goel and another we are not naming — are in 14-day judicial remand for smuggling weapons,” Raj Kumar Digvijay, DRI additional director (Delhi) told TOI.
 
 Cops have intensified the hunt for main accused  , also a national-level shooter and son of retired Colonel,  , a Bangladesh war and Operation Blue Star veteran, whose Meerut residence was raided for 17 hours on Sunday. 
 
 According to sources, DRI officers had recently intercepted three passengers, including Mikolic and a supplier of arms, at the IGI airport. They were travelling by Turkish Airlines from Ljubljana, Slovenia, via Istanbul carrying 25 illegally imported weapons. They had mis-declared the quantity and value of the arms and ammunition to Customs and tried to clear these items under the import policy for renowned shooters. Later, searches were conducted by the DRI teams at the residences of syndicate members in Meerut and Delhi. 
 
 Meanwhile, the forest department issued an alert for Prashant Bishnoi and intensified patrolling in the jungles of Muzaffarnagar, Saharanpur, Bulandshahr and other areas to keep a check on poaching. “As many as 10 teams — each with five-six officials — have been set up for patrolling,” said Mukesh Kumar, chief conservator of forest (West zone), UP. 
 
 44 guns — many of these foreign-made sophisticated weapons — 50,000 cartridges, skins of blackbuck and leopard, nine skulls of chinkara, blackbuck and barking deer (eight with antlers intact), one knife with an ivory handle, 117.5kg of animal meat said to be that of nilgai and Rs 1 crore cash were seized from the Bishnois’ house in Civil Lines area of Meerut early on Sunday. A case has been registered by the forest department against Prashant Bishnoi and his father, but no arrests have been made so far. 
 
 Firearms of various make and models like Glock (Austria), Beretta (Italy), Arsenal (Italy), Benelli (Italy) and Blaser (Germany) were seized along with expensive cameras, thermal imaging binoculars and cartridges. “Since all the seized weapons are foreign-made, there is a clear indication that this is an international racket. There are chances that many highprofile names will crop up during the probe,” said a source.
 
