CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court on Thursday dismissed a petition seeking recusal of its two judges, belonging to Jat Sikh community, from hearing a plea related to reservation to Jats under backward classes (BC) category in Haryana.

 While dismissing the petition, the bench comprising Justice S S Saron and Justice Lisa Gill, however, made it clear that it would not impose any cost considering the old age of the head of the petitioner organization Yadav Kalyan Sabha, Rewari. The bench also declined to initiate contempt of court proceedings against counsel for the petitioner, P R Yadav.
 
 With these orders, the bench would continue to hear the plea challenging the BC quota to Jats and five others communities by the Haryana government. It has already stayed the quota and was hearing the case for around six months on merit.
 
 The matter had reached before the bench after an application filed by Yadav Kalyan Sabha challenging the hearing of matter by Justice Saron and Justice Gill.
 
 The Sabha had alleged that since both the judges belong to the Jat Sikh community and endogamy is largely practised in their community which has considerable population in Haryana, they should recuse from hearing the case as it involves reservation to Jat Sikh community in Haryana.
 
 The plea was, however, strongly objected by the Haryana government and other parties related to the case. The government had argued that seeking recusal of bench from the hearing at a time when the case has already been heard for more than six months, was a serious attempt to handicap the judicial proceedings.
 
 Senior advocate  , while appearing for Haryana government, had argued that the judges cannot be seen through the prism of cast or religion and if the plea filed by   is accepted, the consequences would be far reaching.
 
 “Bench might have decided many cases and if the present plea is accepted, others belonging to non-Jat community would come forward and object to past decisions. Faith of people in judiciary is unshakable and endeavour should be on upholding the integrity of judiciary rather levelling such allegations at this stage,” Dhankar had argued.
 
 Even  , which has been opposing the reservation to Jat community, strongly objected to the plea seeking recusal of the judges from the hearing on the ground that it would spoil the working environment in the high court.
 
 Senior advocate V K Jindal, while appearing for Kumhar Mahasabha, had argued: “If courts started accepting such plea, the consequences would be bad. Even the very efforts made by various social reformers in the past to eradicate the social divide due to cast, would be defeated. There is no question of shifting the matter from te present bench.” .
 
 
