PUNE: Nine people, including three women, were arrested by   on Wednesday for allegedly roughing up a group of trekkers at Visapur fort near Lonavala on  . According to the trekkers, who were camping at the fort when the attack allegedly took place, the assailants also forced the men among them to strip during a five hours ordeal that ended only when police rescued them around 2.30am on January 1.

 According to a news agency report, the attackers identified themselves as members of a `fort lovers' group. The trekkers claimed that though they filed a complaint with police immediately, the FIR was registered only on Tuesday , after they took up the issue with special inspector general of police (Kolhapur range) Vishwas Nangre-Patil .
 
 The suspects have been booked for   and  , among other charges. A complaint was also registered against the company that organised the camp as it was done illegally.
 
 According to the FIR, 26 trekkers had registered for the camp on December 31. Speaking to TOI over the phone, one of them said, “We were in our tent when this group of men and women came around 9.30pm and abused us in filthy language.They attacked me, my husband, two other men, their wives, and even a child in the group.“ The woman said the attackers accused them of violating “customs“ and “traditions“. “They raised slogans in the name of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj. They humiliated us...Those like me who are not well-versed in Marathi were forced to speak in the language. I suffered a fracture in my right arm when one of them hit me with a stick,“ she claimed.
 
 The attackers allegedly forced the men in the group to remove their shirts and poured cold drinks on them. “They snatched our mobile phones and made calls to our family members saying that we were creating a nuisance and indulging in obscene acts at the fort. One of our family members called up police, who came to the fort along with local villagers and rescued us at 2.30am,“ she said.
 
 The incident has surfaced days after an alleged mass molestation episode in Bengaluru during New Year's Eve celebrations made international headlines.
 
 
