Surat: International Institute of Diamond Grading and Research (IIDGR), a part of De Beers Group, has launched the world’s most advanced and cost-effective synthetic diamond screening machine, keeping in mind the huge demand from diamantaires and traders in the world’s largest diamond cutting and polishing centre in Surat.  Diamond traders and manufacturers will be able to instantly verify the smallest of the diamonds within no time with this diamond verification technology solution offered by the IIDGR. This Automated Melee Screening (AMS2) machine will provide diamantaires a cost-effective diamond verification solution for the smallest of the stones in the range of point nine millimetre, which is one-third of the size of the diamonds screened by AMS1.  Talking to TOI after the launch of AMS2 in Hong Kong, IIDGR president Jonathan Kendall said, “The AMS2 is the world’s most cost-effective and most advanced equipment to analyse diamonds of point nine millimetre, which are the smallest stones manufactured specially by Indian manufacturers. It is 10 times faster than AMS1 with substantially reduced referral rate of less than half a per cent.” Kendall added, “For the first time, we have made a huge improvement keeping in mind the requirement of Indian manufacturers. The AMS2 will also analyse the fancy shaped diamonds, specially manufactured by Surat diamantaires for jewellery and watch industry around the world.” Industry sources said the AMS2 was a major hit among Indian diamantaires participating in International Diamond, Gem & Pearl Show in Hong Kong. The bookings for the machines have been done in advance and the deliveries are expected after June 2017. Diamond analyst Aniruddha Lidbide said, “The AMS2 has all the features suited to the needs and demand of Indian manufacturers. This is the world’s fastest synthetic diamond screening device. With this, diamond exporters, traders and manufacturers will be sure that the goods they are selling to international buyers are 100 per cent synthetic diamond free. The Indian diamond industry is on the radar after many cases of undisclosed mixing of synthetic diamonds with natural diamonds in the recent times. In order to protect consumer and buyers’ confidence, traders and exporters were in need of a sophisticated screening equipment like this.”