LUCKNOW: Parliamentary affairs minister Suresh Khanna came down heavily on Opposition parties for boycotting proceedings after accusing the government of gagging their voice. He asked the Opposition to apologise for its behaviour.

 Pointing out to the empty opposition benches, Khanna said the behaviour of opposition leaders is condemnable .This was the second day of boycott of the budget session by the SP-led Opposition against alleged ‘derogatory’ speech by Chief Minister   during his speech on the discussion of the budget. 
 
 Khanna said that the CM had not used any unparliametary word in his speech, but the Opposition was making it an issue . “The behaviour of opposition is condemnable. We want to ask them as to what they did not like.   probe into UPPSC recruitments (in previous Akilesh Yadav regime) is in the interest of thousand of youths, who were meted out injustice,” he said.
 
  “They (opposition) are talking through newspapers and even after invitation they did not come for clarify. They have not said what they did not like or what they feel was unparliamentary in the speech of chief minister Yogi Adityanth on July 19,” Khanna said.
 
  “Those who do illegal work will go to jail and not to a temple. The development graph which was going down has once again started showing an upward trend,” Khanna said, blaming the SP government for the poor condition of the state.
 
  “Policemen used to be beaten up in police stations. They (SP) have ruined the state and now BJP government is trying to put things in order,” he said.
 
  The chief minister had said in the House on Wednesday that UPPSC appointments made since 2012 will be probed by the   -- the period when Akhilesh Yadav headed the Samajwadi Party government in the state.
 
  Adityanath had also said that a former Haryana chief minister was languishing in jail for alleged irregularities in appointments.
 
  These hard-hitting remarks provoked the opposition, mainly the SP. Leader of the Opposition Ram Govind Chowdhury had said on Thursday, “We (the opposition) have decided to boycott the entire assembly session ( till July 28) against the attitude of the ruling party, which is suppressing opposition’s voice.”
 
  As the opposition members stayed away from the proceedings today, BJP member Mayankeshwar Sharan Singh claimed that they came to sign the register and left after so as to claim their daily allowances.
 
  “I saw them (opposition members) going to sign the register to claim allowances. When they are not coming to the House, they should not sign the register and should not take allowances,” Singh said.
 
 Khanna supported him saying, the opposition, which is teaching morality to others, should consider this fact.
 
  Earlier, the CM tabled the resolution in the House to thank the members for voting for Ram Nath Kovind in the presidential polls. The resolution was unanimously adopted and Speaker   read it out, greeting the new President once again.
 
  Initially, there was an opinion in one section of the ruling party to approve the entire budget on Friday itself and close the House sine die as Opposition was not interested in running it. But later on it was agreed that the House would re convene on July 24 to pass the budget. Budgets of about half a dozen departments were approved today. 
 
