Speaking to us a few week ago, singer   had said that he doesn’t get the opportunity to visit his favourite hangout spots or take public transport without being mobbed by fans anymore. It seems like the   took his desire to tour Delhi in public transport a bit too seriously. 

  The singer had planned a city-wide bus tour on Thursday to promote his recently released single, but the bus ended up being stopped by traffic cops and seized within minutes of the tour starting. Indeep was planning to take the bus from West Delhi to Noida via CP, and then conclude the tour at Hauz Khas Village. He says, "I saw   use a similar bus in one of his recent performances. I thought that since we try to do everything in an international manner, why not do tours and promotions in a similar way? Also, I felt that it was the best way to reach out to my fans in NCR. Bas yahi idea tha bus ka."
 
  
  Indeep with his tour bus, the one that was stopped in Delhi (BCCL/ Samik Sen)
 
  However, it didn't go exactly according to plan. On Thursday afternoon, after getting the specially-designed bus ready in  , the singer and his entourage headed towards Connaught Place, but were stopped by traffic cops at Shadipur. Indeep says, "Some three-four traffic cops and a PCR van intercepted us near Shadipur and asked us why we were taking the branded bus without permission."
 
  Indeep adds, "They asked us for papers, and we duly obliged. Then they told us that we cannot take the bus on the road with its windows covered, since that is against the rules. We tried to negotiate, saying it was just like any other vanity van or promotional bus that all singers use, even foreign artists, but they said their rule applies to all."
 
  Indeep says his team talked to the cops for about half-an-hour, after which he decided to leave for Noida in his car as he had work commitments, but the police didn't release his bus till late evening. He tells us, "We had to reach Noida kyunki fans se promise kiya tha. Bus nahin toh rickshaw se bhi chala jaata, jaana toh tha. So, I left. Some members of my team stayed back to complete the formalities with the police. They let us go with a warning but did not allow us to take the bus. It had to be taken back to Moti Nagar."
 
 
  
  
 
  The traffic police asked Indeep to file an application for permission, to both Delhi Police and the Delhi Traffic Police, if he wanted to use the bus in the future. "The Delhi Police was kind enough to let us off without a challan. They just told us that we need to have proper permissions before we could use the bus for promotions on Delhi roads and we have started that process. We plan to have the bus tour on Sunday now. Kyunki ab bus rukni toh hai nahin," says Indeep.
 
  The singer says that he had no idea there was any such rule in place because other singers he knows have used similar buses for promotions in the past without any problem. He says, "I had no idea there was any rule wherein you had to take permission for this because other singers have done this in the past without being stopped. The cops said it’s a precaution they take because several sexual assaults have taken place inside moving vehicles in Delhi. It is strange, because all the foreign artists, like   and all, come here and travel in buses with covered windows and nobody stops them. Par ab rule hai toh hai, will be more careful in the future."
 
  
  
 
  When we spoke to Delhi Police officials, they told us they were not aware of this incident.
  
  
  
 
 
