HYDERABAD: Parents on Saturday appealed to authorities to bring in a regulation reducing the number of hours children spend in school. They demanded that the number of school hours should be brought down to six from the present eight (or ten) as it adversely impacts the overall development of children. 

 The issue of extended hours in schools came to the limelight on Saturday after state IT minister   tweeted about it, in response to a picture brought to his notice. Reacting to the IT minister’s comment, several parents on and off social media said that they were in favour of cutting short the school hours and recommended 4 hours for children under Class 5 and 6 hours for those in high grades. Anything beyond that, they reiterated, is unnecessary and harmful. “With the current system is place, children are spending more time in school than office goers and this is affecting their physical and mental growth,” said Jyothi Batia, a parent, offering an unconventional solution to the problem. “Parents should be given an option to choose a better system for their children. The ones who want their kids to spend more time should opt for regular schooling while others should be allowed to limit their kids’ school timings to not more than 4 hours,” she added. Educationalists didn’t seem to disagree.
 
  They suggested that the 5 hours of school for children up to Class 8 was enough. “Education now is more about earning marks than gaining knowledge and people measure quality by the numbers of hours spent in school. It’s high time we shun this mentality and realise that a child can’t concentrate for more than four hours at a stretch,” sad M Kodandaram, an educator. 
 
 Apart from hampering their mental growth, this skewed system is also rapidly impacting the physical growth of children, say experts. “They are forced to wake up early and do not get adequate sleep. The 2-4 hour travel causes fatigue. Sitting in improper posture for a long time causes backaches and neck pains. A child will also have no time to pursue his interests and hobbies, which leads to depression," said Dr  , a consultant psychiatrist.
 
