GURUGRAM: Back in July 2015,   was hosting Microsoft’s annual meeting. After the meeting, the television host Roshan Abbas walked up to him and said, “You are meant to be on stage”. That was the final push for Mor to quit his job as the India-head of Microsoft Xbox, and become a full-time stand-up comedian.

 Mor quit Microsoft in January 2016 and started his journey in the comedy world. He began with doing 5-10 minute slots in other comedian’s gigs. From being a boss at one of the world’s leading technology companies to being anybody at someone else’s gig, the journey was quite challenging for Mor.
 
 “It was quite a change from being a somebody to being a nobody, but I was prepared for it. I guess with age comes maturity and hence I managed to handle the transition well,” said Mor. He presses that unlike many others, his was not a case of mid-life crisis.
 
 Talking about how his life has changed since the  , Mor says this is something he wanted to do all his life and he couldn’t be happier. 
 
 “I’m so much happier now. Even if I’m stuck in a traffic jam for two hours, it doesn’t bother me. I just sit there and think about my content,” he says.
 
 Mor doesn’t forget to mention how supportive his family was when he took the decision, even though his friends thought he was going crazy. “I’m sure my friends thought I was going through a mid-life crisis, but they were all supportive otherwise,” says Mor.
 
 Between June 2016, when he started as a comedian, and now, Mor has graduated from five-minute-slots to solo acts. He recently did his first solo at the V Club in Gurgaon on March 24. “People in the comedy industry told me it takes around a year before you do your first solo act. I’m thrilled I pulled it off in such a short time.”
 
 Mor did his BTech from Bengaluru and a Master’s in business administration from Delhi School of Economics. Now, to further his dream of doing something in entertainment, Mor has started an entertainment venture called Talking Mime. It’s an entertainment company with four comedians — Amit Tandon, Anshu Mor, Abhijit Ganguly and Neeti Palta. The team also does digital content and web series with brands.
 
 In future, Mor plans to get an office and a proper team before he eventually scales up, with humour being the focus.
 
 
