HASSAN: The Karnataka government will implement the Mekedatu reservoir project, said CM   on Saturday, asserting that the state is well within its right to build the dam.

 This comes three days after the cabinet cleared the controversial Mekedatu balancing reservoir project at Mekedatu in Kanakapura taluk. The plan is to build the dam on the Cauvery river and store 66.50 tmcft water to meet the drinking water needs of urban areas, mainly Bengaluru.
 
 The CM said the project will not adversely affect either the flow or the quantum of Cauvery water flowing to  . The Cauvery Water Disputes Tribunal has not objected to the project, he told reporters at Arasikere, where he launched a slew of development projects.
 
 The Rs 5,130 crore project is facing opposition from the lower riparian state even as the state is moving forward with the dam project and is taking the proposal to the   and the   for their approval.
 
 Meanwhile, CM warned of action against the DC and zilla panchayat CEO in case of complaints of irregular water supply and lack of fodder during summer season. Addressing the gathering after launching the development projects at Arsikere, the CM said, “Supply potable drinking water and get fodder from outside and ask the government for money. If the officials fail in the job, the DC and CEO will be held accountable.” The state is facing severe drought this season. But the government is tackling it, he stated.
 
 Referring to the water storage levels at Hemavathy, Harangi and Kabini dams in the Cauvery basin, the CM said they have nosedived to reach dead storage level. The area has witnessed deficient of 50 per cent rainfall this season. It is the job of the officials to reach out to the villagers, he said. He said he has released Rs 1,140 crore for drought relief works and has allotted Rs 1.35 crore to each assembly segment.
 
 Former PM H D  , who represents   constituency, said the state government is focusing on drought relief works and appreciated that the CM is keen to tide over the crisis.
 
 Former minister H D Revanna and Arasikere MLA K M Shivalingegowda, zilla panchayat chief Swetha, DC V Chaitra and ZP CEO Venkatesh Kumar were present.
 
 
