MUMBAI:  , a founding member franchise of the   ( ) that began in 2008, celebrated their decade-long participation in the competition where they have consistently showcased cricketing excellence.

 Pegged as 'MI10' ­ Igniting Passion For 10 Years, the Mumbai Indians' celebration witnessed a galaxy of past and present MI cricketers, support staff and members of the management, invited to the franchise owner's residence to mark the occasion.
 
 The years gone by have seen MI win two IPL and an equal number of Champions League T20 titles.
 
 
 
 
 Many young cricketers like Jasprit Bumrah, Hardik Pandya, Krunal Pandya, Axar Patel and Ambati Rayudu ­ about whom little was known of -have been discovered by Mumbai Indians, providing them a platform to hone their skills under the guidance of some of the world's best cricketing support staff. Today, these youngsters have gone on to represent India and have contributed immensely in bringing glory to the nation.
 
 
 
 
 On Monday,   and   felicitated cricketing legend  ,   and   for their invaluable contribution to the team over the past decade. Mumbai Indians are the only franchise amongst IPL's founding members that have three members who are part of the club since its inception.
 
 Harbhajan Singh and Lasith Malinga form the core of the team while Sachin Tendulkar has continued as the 'icon', post his retirement from cricket. It's because of this contribution that the trio are known as the 'spine', 'spirit' and the 'soul' of Team Mumbai Indians.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Mumbai Indians have not just won hearts of legions of their fans with their on-field performances, but off the field as well. They started a social cause 'Education For All' in 2010 to support underprivileged children for rightful and equal education.
 
 They have already supported and impacted lives of approximately one lakh children through partner NGOs providing educational support. On Monday, Mumbai Indians also released a book encapsulating their journey with interesting anecdotes, interviews and comments from all their past and present cricketers.
  
  
 
 
