PUNE: The cash-strapped   government will seek loans from banks to   for police personnel in the state.

 The government has given permission to the Maharashtra State Police Housing and Welfare Corporation (MSPHWC), a government undertaking, to acquire loans from the banks and disburse the same to police personnel for building their own houses.
 
 The MSPHWC undertakes construction of houses for the police force. It also formulates and executes housing schemes for serving and retired police personnel.
 
 “Police personnel get government quarters, which they have to vacate after retirement. As a result, those working in the police force are eager to construct their own houses. To facilitate this, the police department had started special scheme to give them 200% advance of the salary. Over the last four years, the advance has been provided but there 7,600 pending applications” said a state order issued on Monday. 
 
 It said, “The state considered all options and (concluded that) the MSPWC can get loan from the banks and disburse it to the police (employees) wanting to construct their houses. This proposal was under consideration against the backdrop of applications received by the MSPHWC and available funds.” 
 
 The state police department has 2,20,000 employees and the number is rising, as per the state government. The number of assistant police inspectors, police hawaldars, police naiks and peons is 1,91,026 that is 92% of the total force. There are 7,767 sub inspectors and 3,000 police inspectors.
 
 Sources in the government said police employees find it difficult to get direct loans from the banks, considering the low wages reflected in their salary slips. Hence the government came out with the idea of providing advance against their salary. However, the state is finding it difficult to continue the scheme due lack of funds.
 
 The state home department headed by chief minister   has asked the MSPHWC to look for comparative interest rates for the loan and go for the lowest. The home department, the MSPHWC and the director general of police will sign a joint contract in this regard. A separate head will be opened for this account but no new recruitment for any post to handle this matter will be created.
 
 Last week, the state government had scrapped the Western Ghats development programme due to the shortage of funds. The programme was launched in 1974-75 as a component of a plan for the growth of hilly areas in eco-sensitive zones. It was sponsored by the Centre (90% central share and 10% state share).
 
