JALANDHAR: Punjab   has sought a report from   here in case of at least 35 patients of thalassemia, who tested positive for   (HCV). These patients, most of whom are below 18, have been receiving blood transfusion at the local civil hospital.

 “A report has been sought by the health minister from the civil surgeon on the issue and local officials have also been asked to look into the blood transfusion records of the patients who tested positive,” said Punjab Health System Corporation managing director Varun Roojam, who is also commissioner, food and drug administration. 
 
 Parents of several children came to know that their kids had tested positive only on Monday when they were told about the findings mentioned in reports during a meeting called by the Thalassemic Children’s Welfare Association even though a few knew about it earlier also. “As of now, 35 patients have tested positive for hepatitis-C and now the matter is with the civil hospital and health department authorities to probe the matter,” said T S Bhatia, who heads the association and has been involved in helping thalassemia patients for the last several years. “The results have shocked the families of the patients as it was being perceived that their kids had been receiving safe blood transfusions,” he said.
 
 It is learnt that 11 patients had tested positive earlier this year after which local blood bank authorities started doing hepatitis C virus (HCV) tests through two methods from March 27 for the purpose of cross checking. 
 
 Meanwhile, it is learnt that the civil hospital authorities and blood bank officials have started looking into different aspects of the issue like patients receiving blood transfusion from outside also. 
 
 It is being suspected that window period (the time gap between HCV infection and till it can be tested positive) could be the reason that blood in stored bags did not test positive and it was transfused to patients. Sources said that the current technique being used at the blood bank in the civil hospital and at most of the other blood banks could detect HCV after a window period of 60 days and if someone got the infection a few days before blood donation, then the virus can be transmitted without getting detected. 
 
