Kolkata: With the   central leadership keeping up with its tough posturing, the state BJP is bracing for another showdown with the Mamata Banerjee government over Hanuman Jayanti celebrations on Tuesday.

 The Birbhum district police refused to give permission to BJP to hold a rally on April 11 on the occasion of “Bir Hanuman Jayanti”, prompting the Union minister of state for home Kiren Rijiju to lash out against the state. “This is unfortunate. Police are acting under the pressure of politicians. No untoward incident happened during Ram Navami celebrations. There is no valid reason for police to deny permission if they don’t do anything illegal,” he said.
 
 “In this state, the government is running a dictatorship. The administration has filed fake cases against (our) party leaders. They didn’t carry unlicenced guns. Trishuls and swords are traditional and symbolic weapons. It is the religious right of the people. This is an instance of misuse of power by the state,” he said. Speaking at a party meet in Birbhum, Rijiju alleged police were being “misused” by the Trinamool government to “torture common people and political opponents”.
 
 Rijiju also accused the Trinamool government of not being ‘sincere’ in implementing central government’s welfare policies at a time when the chief minister accused the Centre of curtailing funds for central schemes.
 
 The tell-tale signs were evident on Sunday morning in Howrah. A local BJP leader, Badrinarayan Singh, who formed Anjani Putra Sena two years back, organised a procession — participated by several thousand supporters. The two-hour rally started from Kazipara to wind up at Howrah Maidan halting traffic in several parts, including the all-important GT Road. Singh claimed he applied for a police permission but didn’t wait for the reply. He claimed wooden sticks with steel paint were used. Police refused to comment. A similar rally from Belur Hanuman Mandir took the J N Mukherjee Road, Bandhaghat and Aurobindo Road to end at Belur. “No official permission was taken. We are examining the issue,” said OC traffic, Howrah Town, Asoke Nath Chatterjee.
 
 Unlike Rijuju, his senior cabinet colleague and agriculture minister Radha Mohan Singh who attended party meetings in Howrah said, “The Ram Navami celebrations is part of our tradition and culture. The state is wrongly interpreting this.” Rajen Gohain, the union minister of state for railways, however, chose to disagree. Speaking to reporters in Ranaghat, he first refuted suggestions that state party president Dilip Ghosh himself carried swords, but when prodded he chose to distance himself from it. “It was an improper act,” he said. 
 
 Ghosh, himself, remained unfazed. “The sword is symbolic of Hindu traditions. It signifies valour. Even in marriages the grooms use it. Now the chief minister wants to put me behind bars. I am not scared of going to prison,” he said.
 
 (With inputs from Someshwar Boral, Rupak Banerjee and Ashish Poddar)
 
 
