LUDHIANA: Three persons, who were standing on a road divider while waiting for a bus, were killed after a SUV travelling at almost 100km per hour rammed into them near the   at Sahnewal on Thursday.

 Following the accident, the kin of the victims blocked the Ludhiana-Delhi National Highway for almost three hours.
 
 The deceased were identified as Baljeet Kaur, 32, of   village, Sukhwinder Singh, 35, and Balwinder Singh, 34, of Bilga village of Sahnewal area. All three worked in a factory and were waiting for the factory bus near the national highway.
 
 The trio had reached the spot around 7:45am along with other factory workers. They were to be picked by a factory bus, as per the daily routine. A speeding Mahindra XUV was coming from Ludhiana side. The eyewitnesses said as the SUV passed through a water-logged stretch, stagnant water splashed onto its windshield, affecting the visibility of the driver. The driver lost control in the process and rammed into three persons standing on the divider.
 
 The impact was so strong that the trio was thrown away 20 feet away. As the accident occurred opposite Sahnewal police station, cops reached the spot within a few minutes.
 
 When people were checking the injured, the car occupants fled the spot, leaving the damaged car on the road. The accused also took along the documents of the car with them.
 
 Eyewitness Amandeep Singh of Dharor village said, “An ambulance was parked near the spot, however there was no driver who could take them to the hospital. People and policemen stopped autos to take the injured to the hospital.”
 
 Following the accident, villagers, relatives of the victims and factory workers reached the spot and protested against the police for “letting the accused flee”.
 
 They blocked both sides of the national highway around 8:30am. For next three hours the highway was blocked. The police somehow managed to make way for the Sada-e-Sarhad (Dehli-Lahore Bus) and an ambulance stuck in the jam.
 
 The people demanded the arrested of accused and an FIR lodged against them. Meanwhile, a police party was sent towards Doraha following a tip-off that the accused had fled towards Doraha in an auto. Within half an hour, the police arrested three of occupants of the car. The man who was driving the SUV is still at large.
 
 The arrested accused have been identified as Randhir Singh, 70, Jaswant Singh, 86, and Balwinder Singh, 62. The absconding driver has been identified as Kashmira Singh, 55, of Ismailpur village of  .
 
 In the accident, Randhir Singh and Jaswant Singh also suffered serious injuries. They were admitted to a private hospital in Doraha.
 
 Assistant commissioner of police (Sahnewal) Harkamal Kaur said, “The car is owned by Kashmira Singh who was also driving it. They were heading towards Fatehgarh Sahib for a visit to a religious place. The three accused have been arrested while the fourth one would soon be in the police net. Besides, the police have registered a case against all four accused.”
 
 When asked about the protest and blockade, the ACP said people wanted police to hand over the accused to them.
 
