CHENNAI: All the   government employees will receive their   on September 28, a bit earlier in view of Puja holidays. But the revenue secretary, Thiruvallur collector and   tahsildhar are unlikely to get their salary this month, unless they act immediately to settle a rental issue in a day. The   has directed the state government not to release their salary till they clear the rental arrears of Madhavaram  . 

 Justice S Vidyanathan passed the order on a plea moved by Farida Shaukath, the owner of the building located on the Red Hills Road, Madhavaram. According to her, in December 2009, she was approached by revenue officials seeking lease of the premises for establishing taluk office in Madhavaram. It was mutually agreed that the premises would be leased out for a monthly rent of Rs 1,20,000.
 
 On December 22, 2009, the tahsildar took possession of the property even without signing a proper lease agreement. After dragging the issue for almost a year, in February 2011, the officials informed the petitioner that the public works department (PWD) had fixed the monthly rent at Rs 98,925. 
 
 As the petitioner protested against the arbitrary fixation of rent, the tahsildhar stopped paying the rent from February 2011, till an interim order was passed by the court in October 2012.
 
 However, the officials claimed that the delay in payment of rent occurred due to non-submission of related documents by the petitioner and also the procedures to be followed for fixing the fair rent. 
 
 Taking note of the fact that 67-year-old petitioner had been made to run from pillar to post all these years to get the rental arrears by the officials, the judge directed that a lease agreement shall be entered into between the petitioner and the competent authority within a period of 30 days and the arrears of rent shall also be paid within 30 days. 
 
 Further, making the authorities concerned accountable for their negligence, the court said, "Till such time a lease agreement is signed and the arrears are cleared, all the three respondents shall not draw any salary and the government shall not disburse their salary to them."
 
