NAGPUR: Bachelor, master and doctorate of philosophy (PhD) degree students of pharmacy are up in arms over the Nagpur University’s decision to merge their faculty with the interdisciplinary studies, that is among the four faculties constituted after implementation of the new universities’ Act.

 Before promulgation of the new Act on March 1, the faculty of pharmaceutical sciences was among the 10 different faculties. But, the Act mandated only four faculties and thus faculty of Science and Technology, faculty of commerce and management, faculty of humanities and faculty of interdisciplinary studies were constituted.
 
 The pharmaceutical sciences was also placed under faculty of medicine before making it as an independent faculty.
 
 As per NU’s direction on March 15 this year, an expert committee headed by Pro-Vice Chancellor   had submitted a report on the constitution of the faculty. Based on the recommendations of the Yeole panel, the Vice Chancellor SP Kane notified the direction which placed the existing faculties of education, home science and pharmaceutical sciences under the faculty of interdisciplinary studies.
 
 Students from a couple of private pharmacy colleges told TOI that the move would result in them being awarded a non-professional course degree.
 
 They said if the degree bears the mark of interdisciplinary studies, it will ruin their chances of finding jobs across the country and abroad in the relevant field. “The word ‘science’ too is not being used but they have called it interdisciplinary studies. We have been bracketed along with Bachelor of Education and Home Science students. Pharmaceutical sciences belong to pure science branch but this move won’t leave any scope in higher education and employment for us,” they said.
 
 They also said that logically their stream should come under the faculty of science and technology since pharmaceutical sciences are governed by  . “Our admissions too are regulated through common entrance test conducted by the directorate of technical education,” they said.
 
 The other hurdle students fear they may face is of availing scholarships and funding. “If we are not identified as science students, the UGC would stop our existing scholarships under the science discipline,” they said.
 
 They added that this is a grave injustice being meted out to them without being given any plausible reason.
 
 Senior academician   lambasted Kane and Yeole for making “the biggest blunder” in NU history.
 
 “Will Yeole rechristen his own faculty as interdisciplinary studies in retrospect? This is cruel joke played on students,” he said.
 
 Mishra said the Kane and Yeole should have clarified from the government before going ahead.
 
 He also questioned whether a university has the right to do so. “Ultimately, the pharmacy council of India (PCI) and the AICTE regulate the faculty. I have taken up this issue with PCI chairman,” he added.
 
 Kane didn’t answer TOI’s calls while Yeole is out of the country.
 
