Gandhinagar: The   ( ) has decided to formally issue a notification asking four states that are party to the Narmada dam project to finish ‘resettlement and rehabilitation’ (R&R) of ‘project affect families’ (PAF) before July 31. The four states are Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and  .

 Further, the Gujarat government has agreed to meet Madhya Pradesh’s demand for compensation to more affected families than was estimated earlier.
 
 All this was decided at a meeting held in Delhi by the NCA with representatives of the four states. From Gujarat, chief secretary J N Singh and additional chief secretary (ACS), Narmada department M S Dagur, attended the meeting. Rehabilitation of all affected families is necessary for total compliance with the Supreme Court order directing the party states to finish all R&R work before July 31, 2017. Only then will it be possible to close the gates of the Sardar Sarovar Narmada dam. Closing of the gates will increase the dam’s storage capacity from 1.4 million acre feet (MAF) to 4.75 MAF. Then it will be possible to supply huge quantities of water to Saurashtra and North Gujarat for irrigation, drinking water and industry.
 
 
 Earlier, the work of raising the dam to 138 meters and installation of the radial gates was completed in December 2016. When contacted, Gujarat chief secretary J N Singh said that the Madhya Pradesh government had demanded that compensation of Rs 60 lakh each be paid to total 681 families (earlier it was 580).
 
 “Another 998 families (as against 1358 estimated earlier) are to be given compensation of Rs 15 lakh each. Gujarat has agreed to give funds for the additional 101 families immediately. The state government has already paid around Rs 400 crore in advance,’’ Singh said.
 
 The NCA has also directed all sub-committees to expedite and complete all formalities so that Gujarat can close the dam gates this season. “This is a significant gain for our state,” Singh said.
 
 The   plans to encash the completion of the Narmada dam project during the 2017 assembly elections. The state government has planned a grand show at the end of July or first week of August. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to attend the event. A Narmada Yatra will also be taken out to celebrate the completion of the project.
 
 
