CHANDIGARH: Newly-appointed Punjab local bodies minister in the Congress government   sparked a controversy on Friday, just one day after taking oath, when he told reporters that he would continue with appearances on his popular comedy TV show.

 Asked if he would concentrate on fighting Punjab's many issues or continue with his  , he told reporters, “When the people who elected me six times don't have a problem (with my TV career), aapko kyon kicchi-picchi ho rahi hai (why are you getting uncomfortable)?“ He could well be the only serving minister today who is also a TV star.
 
 Opposition parties immediately hit back with the “I told you so“ remark. “Even when he was Amritsar MP, he never looked after his constituency. It is for this reason that we decided with the BJP in 2014 not to make him the candidate for the Lok Sabha elections,“ said SAD spokesperson Harcharan Bains. Sidhu was MP from 1999 to 2014.
 
 Sidhu insisted that his work would not interfere with his Cabinet responsibilities. “I go only once a week,“ he told TOI. “I will leave at 3pm and will return by 7am the next day. This is my only source of livelihood.“ BJP national secretary R P Singh called it conflict of interest, but added, “He can continue with his profession as along as it doesn't affect his Cabinet duties. Also, he should not use his portfolios to gain any undue advantage.“
 
 Sidhu pointed out that the BJP never questioned his TV career when he was used as a star campaigner in the 2012 Gujarat assembly elections and in Haryana and Rajasthan in 2009. The saffron came to power in the three states.
 
 “In fact, I was asked to use the same expression `thoko taali' in most rallies by the BJP,“ he said.
 
 AAP MLA and leader of the Opposition in the Punjab assembly H S Phoolka said the previous SAD-BJP regime had left Punjab in a poor financial condition which deserves undivided attention. “Working tirelessly for even 24 hours will not be enough to clear the mess and I'm sure that being mature person, Sidhu will realise that once he begins work. I too left a roaring practice as a lawyer at the Supreme Court to contribute my bit for Punjab and the same is expected of Sidhu,“ he said, while talking to journalists.
 
