Nagpur: Taking advantage of the state government’s decision to allow super specialists from private sector to provide their services in government medical colleges (GMCs), the Indira Gandhi Government Medical College (IGGMC) has decided to avail services of the college alumni in six super-specialities.  The alumni will serve the postgraduate activities as well as perform surgeries without drawing any honorarium. “This will retain difficult patients in the hospital who are otherwise referred to private hospitals and help generate teaching material for postgraduate students. It will also help the poor avoid expenses they otherwise incur at private hospitals. It is a good chance for our alumni to serve their alma mater,” said IGGMC dean Dr Anuradha V Shrikhande. The dean said that the college has shortlisted six super specialities — uro-surgery, nephrology, surgical gastroenterology, paediatric surgery, plastic surgery, endocrinology and oncology — for seeking services of private doctors. The college has prepared a proposal with names of alumni ready to offer their services free of cost for operations etc which will be submitted to state government soon.  Once the government approves these names, the college will start to avail services of super specialists before commencing its golden jubilee celebrations in December. Dr Ravi Chauhan from IGGMC, who is handling the golden jubilee projects, told TOI that this initiative will help doctors serve their mother institute and also reduce the huge patient load on college doctors. “The basic idea is to attend to every patient who comes to the college hospital. Since no financial transaction would be involved, the government is also allowing it,” he said. “We would use the opportunity to provide better health care delivery to poor patients. Though the government has abolished the system of honorary teachers, it is promoting use of expertise possessed by super specialists for better management of patients in the medical colleges,” said Dr Chauhan. The college didn’t share names of the alumni who have offered to give their services as the names are yet to be cleared by the authorities, many alumni told TOI that they were waiting for such an opportunity. “We would like to serve our parent institute which made us what we are today. It is our duty to serve our alma mater,” said a senior ophthalmologist.