HYDERABAD: Ten years is a long time in sport, but such has been the  's ( ) appeal that it has built a reputation to maintain. The game has evolved and novel methods employed as lesser-known players like Washington Sundar - named after the armyman who stood by his father - and Rahul Tripathi have become household names.

 
 
 
 The 10th season culminates in the final between   and   here on Sunday. Pune have staged a stunning comeback after finishing second last in the previous edition and the latter, two-time former champions, are gunning for another title after they failed to retain it in 2016.
 
  
  
 It's one of those rain-drenched ironies that the defending champions, Sunrisers Hyderabad's run ended in gloaming on Thursday, leaving the toppers of batting and bowling charts - David Warner and Bhuvneshwar Kumar - out of the fray. But the western derby here will still have its fair share of leading lights of IPL X, the absence of Ben Stokes and Imran Tahir notwithstanding.
 
 
 
 
 Pune skipper   is fifth in the batting charts with 421 runs, and thanks to the efforts of Jaydev Unadkat (22) - who also got a hat-trick against Hyderabad - and Tahir (18), who are second and fourth in the bowling charts respectively, Pune have rallied brilliantly ever since they defended 161for eight in Bangalore.
  
  
 That 27-run win over Royal Challengers Bangalore seemed to have effected a positive turnaround for Pune, who have been on a roll since April 16, winning eight of their next 10 games en route to finishing second in the race for playoffs. They have already defeated Mumbai three times this season, including Qualifier 1to ensure a smooth passage to the final with Washington quite the toast of Pune, and waited as Mumbai made the most of a second chance to get there.
 
  and his men have won six consecutive matches after the seven-wicket defeat to Pune in their first fixture, lost another to Pune by three runs before winning four more games to top the table with 20 points.
 
  
  
 Skipper Sharma, Pandya brothers (Krunal's fitness may be a cause of concern as he sought medical help on Friday night for what seemed like a groin strain) and Kieron Pollard have chipped in while Nitish Rana has gone off the boil after initial promise while their bowlers have filled in admirably. New Zealander Mitchell McClenaghan is No.3 in bowling charts with 19 sticks and Jasprit Bumrah, who according to Chris Jordan has the best yorker in business, has 18 to be No.5. Lasith Malinga and Karn Sharma, not new here after having played for Hyderabad, also joined the party.
 
 Leg-spinners have revelled this season and it would be interesting to see if Mumbai field offie Harbhajan Singh. Tactical acumen, though, could well be the difference between the teams.
 
 Pune were the only team to defeat Hyderabad here this season and Dhoni's inputs could be vital in Smith and his men realising their midsummer night's dream, a one-off and not a bad way to end the tournament for a team that will cease to exist after this season.
 
 
