Aparna Sen’s Sonata is a story of three unmarried women going through mid-life crisis. Aruna Chaturvedi (Aparna), a professor, Dolon Sen ( ), a banker, and Subhadra Parekh (Lillete Dubey), a journalist, are friends, whose complex interaction forms the crux of the film. At the end, a tragedy of global magnitude happens, which not only places their personal anxieties in perspective, but also strengthens the bond between them. In town, the trio opened up about the film, their Kolkata association and a lot more. Excerpts:

 
 : My friendship with Aparna goes back a long way and I strongly feel she is among the best directors in India. The films and roles she has offered me so far are fab. I trust her completely as a director and have told her how I want to be part of each of her films. In Sonata, the furniture that we see, has come from Aparna’s house, so it looked like an extension of her drawing room. The clothes too are as real as the characters. 
 
 
 : With trust comes understanding. She knows very well that after reading a script, if she doesn’t like it, I will never force her to be a part of it.
 Lillete: For the past 16 years, I was waiting for a call from Aparna. Ultimately, it happened. But I was hoping that she would cast me in Shabana’s role (laughs)! Jokes apart, I loved playing Subhadra Parekh. At first I was wondering if the audience would be interested to see what these three oldies are doing in a film, but the trailer was so well accepted that I am hopeful about people making it to the theatres.
 
 A: It was a democratic atmosphere on the sets, where all of us were equals and that included the one cast in the role of a bai. We had a workshop where we went over the lines to iron out any questions. I have been doing workshops since Yugant, so that the actors are in character. Also, since we come from theatre background, we worked for 12 hours a day.
 
 S: I enjoyed doing workshops; mainstream films have started this now and it is much needed. I remember how a four-year-old boy, who was playing my son in a film, had to hug me and he developed cold feet. It looked so fake.
 
 L: Workshops help build that comfort zone between actors and it shows on screen.
 
 S: Saroni Sen helped me render   in the film. It was very difficult.
 
 A: Even Javed Sir (Akhtar) helped her, who she looks up to as god!
 
 S: What nonsense! He will faint if he hears this. But yes, he encourages me a lot. He told me you better do it if you have taken up the film. After hearing the song, he said, ‘Not bad’ (laughs)! 
 
 L: I love to come back to the City of Joy, which is rich in art and culture. The food too is amazing, specially the fish. Plus, buying saris is a must.
 
 S: I feel proud that I have worked with all the stalwarts from here, be it Satyajit Ray, Mrinal Sen… the list is endless. The city is full of life 
 and soul. 
 
 
