As if watching   on the big screen was not ecstatic enough, now we will get to see the Superstar in 3D format in Shankar’s  . The team which has worked on the 3D format is a couple from Mumbai,   Mittal and Surabhi. 

 The duo claims to own one of the most precise and automated 3D gear (similar to the one that was used on blockbusters like the Transformers, X-Men and The Hobbit films) for shooting 3D films. It is this combination of technology and passion that drives this couple to take on challenging movies like 2.0. They have previously worked as stereographers/3D engineers on films like Rudhramadevi, the Hindi version of Pizza and Om in Telugu. In an exclusive interview, they talk about working with Rajinikanth and what India lacks...
 
 So, how does the camera work? Ashish explains, “We all have two eyes. They see two different things and are slightly different from each other. Similarly, we have two cameras that see two different things and shoot everything in 3D format. The cameras are connected to a 3D monitor and that is how we get to see each scene that is shot.” But working with a 3D camera is not simple, especially if you are shooting in unknown locations. “2.0 has been shot in some really unknown and amazing locations. They were very remote locations and it was a little tough using the cameras in these places. Director   is a perfectionist, so getting the shot right was quite a task. He is someone who doesn’t compromise, so managing the cameras and getting what he wanted was the biggest challenge. We would plan each shoot a few days in advance, especially if there were action sequences. Shankar’s concepts and ideas are inspiring and have allowed us to take 3D to new heights creatively. If this is not too much of a stretch, we are confident that Hollywood films will also take an inspiration from 2.0,” boasts Ashish. 
 
 Working with the Superstar has been an unreal experience for the duo. “The first time he saw the shot on the monitor, he just had this gleaming smile on his face. It was so gratifying. Even when   saw it, he was taken aback. They have never seen how they look in 3D and when they saw the scenes, they were more than happy. In 3D, everything looks real, magnified and amplified. You see the complete details of everything and it is a lot clearer. When Rajinikanth acted, people went crazy. Watching him in 3D is surreal. To see each and every expression he gives, with utmost clarity, is a different experience altogether, and his expressions will make quite an impact on the audience. In real life, he is this humble saint, but in front of the camera, he transforms himself into someone beyond belief,” gushes Ashish, who was previously in Vancouver in Canada. 
 
 But nothing can beat the 3D movies that come out in Hollywood. What is it that India lacks? “To be honest, 3D is an afterthought for most of our directors in India. They don’t think about 3D right when they are conceptualising the movie. They make the movie and then want to convert it into 3D, and that is not going to be great. Also, we don’t have the budget for it. If you want to make a 3D movie, it has to be engraved in your thought process. When you are making a 3D movie, you need to keep a lot of things in mind — right from locations to the 3D crew, etc. A lot of effort goes into making a 3D movie. In fact even in 2.0, everybody took some time to get used to the cameras, how it is positioned, how it works, and so on. But ultimately, everybody loved the end result. A 3D movie means a lot of collaboration and effort,” he signs off. 
 
