Mumbai: The   on Wednesday asked the   to state the reason why an FIR could not be filed in the alleged  . Rapping the state for its “delaying tactics”, a division bench of   and   gave the government time till March 27, to clarify its stand.

 Additional public prosecutor Sultana Sonawane informed the court that the state had given permission to the anti-corruption bureau to conduct an “open inquiry” into allegations of irregularities in the tender process for the highway and toll collection. The inquiry would take about six months, the court was told.
 
 The bench said, “How will an open inquiry help you unless you want to prolong the matter? The judges further said, “You are giving an impression that you are interested in delaying the matter and are hand-in-glove. The issue concerns public money. How many inquiries will you conduct? We are of the opinion that an open inquiry is not necessary. Why an FIR cannot be registered?" 
 
 The prosecution said that since it was a technical matter, the ACB had to go through the documents and record statements. The judges said statements could be recorded even after the FIR was lodged. 
 
 The court was hearing a criminal PIL by activist Pravin Wategaonkar, who had sought an investigation into alleged corrupt practices in the tender process. In November 2008, the PWD, then headed by minister Chhagan Bhujbal, had proposed to widen the 20km Sion-Panvel highway with a new toll naka at Kamothe. In June 2009, a tender notice was issued and the IVRCL-Kakade Infrastructure Pvt Ltd (KIPL) joint venture—Sion-Panvel Tollways Ltd—bagged the contract by offering the lowest viability gap fund of Rs 390 crore. KIPL is owned by BJP MP Sanjay Kakade, and the petitioner alleges the company had no prior experience in such projects. According to Wategaonkar, other eligible firms were not allowed to bid for the project. KIPL increased its equity in the venture and then made a “windfall gain by selling off its equity to a third company”.
 
 The ACB had in September 2016, said it had conducted a discreet inquiry and sought permission to start an open inquiry. Wategoankar alleged that since it involved persons close to the ruling party , the government seemed to be delaying the matter. “As per an agreement, the firm is supposed to receive over Rs 390 crore by March 31, 2017. The delay seems to be so that the payments can be made,” alleged Wategoankar.
 
 
