

 The last season was not quite favourable for the fishermen due to low volumes of marine catch in the region. Normally, each of the mechanised boats is able to undertake 16 voyages into the sea ranging for a period of nearly 12-20 days. However, during the last season, many of us were not even able to do eight voyages. We used to take up fishing till the last day before the fishing ban commenced, but due to decline in catch, many fishermen have started repairing the boats earlier itself.
 
 
 One of the major factors is that fishing grounds near the coast have been wiped out. Nowadays, we have to go north of Kalingapatnam or deep into the sea for a good catch. Also, earlier we used to net good quantity of prawns (tiger and white varieties). But these have reduced drastically and now we get only pink brown prawns. Even among the pink brown prawns, at the beginning of the season, boats used to net around 500-600 kilos per voyage, but now it is only 250-300 kilos. The major reason for reduction in catch is pollution. If chemical industries are set up near the coast and all the waste is dumped into the sea, what else can we expect. We have time and again complained that setting up of industries on the coast is disastrous to the fishing industry and the large number of people dependent on this sector, but nothing is being done about it.
 
 
 Tuna season was a little better than the previous year. But, we do not have a good marketing facility to export our products to overseas markets. If we are able to export tuna on the fourth or fifth day of the catch, tuna will be sold for Rs 1,000 per kilo, but here we are getting only Rs 170 per kilo. That is why we want government agencies such as CMFRI to provide a mother vessel, which can purchase the catch at sea and then bring it to Vizag from where it can be taken by flight to prospective markets. Fishermen can also benefit from the prices.
 
 
 There are several submerged boats which have to be removed. Dredging has to be taken up and the focus should be on improving the sanitation. We also require dry docks so that at least 200 boats can be repaired during the fishing ban. We have limited capacity as of now for the boats to be repaired. In addition to this, we need tax exemption on fishing and boat equipment as it will help the community.
 
 
 We have not seen anything until now. We have heard that funds have been allotted for the project, but the focus should be on providing overall support to fishermen. Chemical factories should not be allowed to set up here as it affects the fishing community.
 
 
 Cruise tourism can be developed if it is set up some other place rather than Fishing Harbour. The existing Fishing Harbour is jam-packed and the space is not even enough for the existing fishing boats. Cruise tourism can be planned at places like Rushikonda or some other beaches.
 
