BENGALURU: Back in 1999 - or even half a decade ago - the   wasn't anything to write home about. There weren't venues, let alone groups, where one could indulge in the activity. It's a completely different story today. 

 Besides large number of groups, there are dedicated spaces for  , where aspiring poets can interact with one another and share their thoughts without inhibitions.   started Poetry in the Park two years ago to create an informal space where "people could come and participate without having to worry about how knowledgeable they were about poetry".
 
 "I wanted it to be an informal space and not a performance space," says Couto. Poetry in the Park is held once a month on Saturday at  . The response to the initiative has been encouraging.
 
 "Initially, when I started, it was a friends' circle, largely in their 30s and 40s. Today, there are more youngsters coming in," she says. Couto attributes the informality of the event to its popularity. 
 
 "It's an open event where the crowd is split between regulars and newcomers. We've had people coming from far-flung places such as Tumakuru. We have had people read out poetry in many Indian, and foreign languages too," Couto says.
 
 It was with the intention of stripping poetry of its formal frills that   started Another Poetic Sunday a couple of years ago. "Our education system needs to be blamed for the image of poetry being rigorous. We were never taught to write poetry," said Jain. 
 
 It's the popularity of oral poetry that has resulted in the form being accepted, even being considered cool, among youngsters. 
 
 "Spoken word is a form where you recite material. It's lyrical, and is about word play," says Jain who also curates poetry events at The Humming Tree. "We've had slam poets like Watsky and Callahan Connor not only perform but also conduct poetry workshops in Bengaluru," she adds. 
 
 Let Poetry Be is another successful poetry group in the city that meets every third Saturday. The theme changes every month. "From dramatized poetry to black out poetry, jugalbandi and even debating use of poetry, we have done it all. Once, we even had a session where members were blindfolded before they wrote poetry," says Amrutha Dongray, co-founder of the group. 
 
 "I think the fact that there are so many platforms in the city today that has played an important role in popularizing poetry. People are writing verses on a whole range of issues today," says Dongray.
 
