NEW DELHI: Probing the illegal telephone exchanges allegedly run by  , the Uttar Pradesh anti-terror squad (UP  ) on Wednesday raided a prominent engineering coaching institute in Punjabi Bagh and seized various documents and instruments.

 Gulshan Sain, who ran the telephone exchange, was working as the technical head at the institute. Officials said six SIM boxes installed in the electricity unit have been seized. Earlier, police had seized 16 SIM box units, 140 prepaid SIM cards, 10 mobile phones, 28 data cards and five laptops from the accused.
 
 Wednesday’s operation was conducted by a team led by ATS CO Anup Singh after Sain revealed that one of his servers was at the institute.
 
 The ATS has also contacted   and Monitoring (TERM) cell of the telecom ministry to understand the technicalities of the racket, like call spoofing and SIM box-aided call transfers. The callers based in Pakistan and Bangladesh made calls via the internet on the parallel exchanges through this technology.
 
 These calls were converted to voice calls through the SIM boxes, but receivers could only see Indian numbers on their phone screens. This also threw off agencies tracking suspicious calls. These exchanges, which were earning lakhs, were also being used by ISI to call Army officers to extract information from them.
 
 Sain and 10 others were arrested after military intelligence units in J&K detected the   activities being carried out by ISI through these telephone exchanges and alerted UP Police.
 
 The exchanges were running at three places — Aliganj in Lucknow, Sitapur and Hardoi. The SIM cards were procured on forged identities by Vishal Kakkad and Harshit Gupta, who have also been arrested. The other arrested men are Rahul Singh, Vinit Dikshit, Rahul Rastogi, Uttam Shukla, Vikas Verma, Shivendra Mishra, Rishi Hora and Shyam Babu.
 
 Sain, a software engineer arrested from Mehrauli in south Delhi, was taken on police remand on Monday. Officers said that he is a key player in the espionage activities being carried out by ISI. His passport details have revealed that Sain had travelled to Afghanistan twice and lived there collectively for around five years.
 
 A native of Sikar in Rajasthan, Sain told the police that he worked there as an IT expert. Later, he came to India and joined the coaching institute.
 
 
