NAGPUR: Following the state government’s notification on setting up a   ( ) in every district, district collector Sachin Kurve has initiated the process for it.

 Recently, a meeting chaired by resident deputy collector KNK Rao was held in the collectorate in which senior officials of animal husbandry department,   ( ) veterinary department, city police, rural police, and RTO were also present. 
 
 In the meeting, the officials were directed to form an official committee as per the guidelines issued by central government in 2001. “The official members of the committee will be selected as mentioned in the notification. Non-officials members from NGOs will be selected on the basis of their contribution in animal welfare. Advertisements might be released for inviting applicants,” said an official.
 
 As reported by TOI earlier, a local NGO named ‘Nagpur SPCA’ is run by Dr Kailash Marwah. Referring to the central government’s rules, Shah has demanded reconstitution of the district (SPCA). She also filed a complaint with Kurve stating that the NGO,  , was misusing the land and infrastructure allotted to it in Gittikhadan. “The NGO even received funds from the Animal Welfare Board of India but is using the land and infrastructure for commercial purposes rather than for welfare of animals. The land should be taken back and allotted to the new SPCA,” Shah complained.
 
 Following this, the deputy collector (revenue) Subhash Chaudhari has directed sub-divisional officer (Nagpur) to investigate in the matter. “Facts will be found out and a report will be prepared. Appropriate action will be then taken,” said Chaudhari. 
 
 In 2001, the union government had directed all states to establish SPCA in each district within six months from the date of commencement of rules. The society's main intention is to prevent cruelty to animals and execute welfare schemes of Animal Welfare Board of India (AWBI). The district collector will be the chairperson of the 15-member body.
 
 Out of 36 districts of the state, only seven — Chandrapur, Amravati, Ratnagiri, Osmanabad, Dhule, Thane and Satara — have formed the society. Among them, only two districts were allotted a government land to run animal shelter, sources said.
 
