COIMBATORE- SALEM: Mystery deepened over the April 24 killing of a security guard at late   chief minister  's Kodanad estate, after two men suspected of being involved in the incident met with separate road `accidents', resulting in the death of one of them. 

 While one `accident' took place in  , the other happened near Palakkad in Kerala. The strange turn of events has raised doubts on whether the accidents were stage-managed by those who plotted the Kodanad incident.
 
 Kanagaraj, a 36-year-old former driver of Jayalalithaa, who was the prime suspect in the Kodanad case, was killed in a road `accident' in Attur in Salem district late Friday night. A car crashed into his motorcycle on Salem-Chennai   around 9pm, police sources said.
 
 “Kanagaraj had reached his native village Chitirapalayam in Edappadi on Friday .He met his friends in the locality and consumed liquor before heading for a relative's house in Thalaivasal. Around 9 pm, when Kanagaraj reached Santhanagiri junction on Salem-Chennai national highway , a car heading to Perambalur from Bangalore rammed the two-wheeler. Kanagaraj sustained serious injuries and died on the spot. He was under the influence of alcohol at that time,“ a police officer said.
 
 The Attur police sent the body to Attur government hospital for postmortem.Special team inspector Balamurali of Gobichettipa layam police station, who is on special duty at Kodanad estate, conducted an inquiry at the hospital.
 
 The Attur police registered a case under Section 279 (rash driving) and 304 (cause death by negligence) of IPC and detained the car driver, Rafiq belonging to Thammampatti in Salem district. Investigations revealed that Kanagaraj, dismissed from duty at the estate in 2012, was working at a cab company in Chennai. The special team, which reached Chennai looking for him, came to know that Kanagaraj had gone to his village in Salem.
 
 In the second `accident', another suspect,  , 35, was injured and his wife Vinupriya and five-year-old daughter Neethu died. The Kerala police said there were deep cuts on the throats of Vinupriya and Neethu, raising suspicion that they could have been killed before the car hit the truck.
 
 Sayan was a close associate of Kanagaraj, police said. “Sayan, a native of Thrissur, was working as a manager at a bakery in Coimbatore. He was heading for Thrissur in a car with his family . When the car reached Kannadi on the   Road, it rammed into a parked container truck. His wife and daughter were killed on the spot. Sayan was rushed to a private hospital in Palakkad and later referred to a hospital in Coimbatore,“ a police officer told TOI.
 
 Judicial magistrate R Selvakumar visited the hospital and recorded Sayan's statement.
 
 Kanagaraj was very close to Sayan, police sources said. “Police were looking for Sayan in connection with the Kodanad murder. A team from   had reached Madukkarai on Friday night in search of him. However, he escaped,“ the officer added.
 
 Om Bahadur, 51, a Nepali guard at the estate was murdered by a gang, which entered the estate premises in two SUVs and a car on early Monday morning. Another guard, Krishnan Bahadur, was seriously injured in the attack. The gang fled after smashing open some windows of the bungalow.
 
