The great Indian jugaad has found a way to get around the beacon ban- with netas replacing the VIP light with sirens- at least in two states, Madhya Pradesh and Telangana. This, even as the 
  , a symbol of the VIP culture, from Monday.

 Other states, like Maharashtra, are exploring options that can be exercised by VIPs without flouting the new rules. Minister of state for home Deepak Kesarkar has written to the state DGP to look for other options, which do not violate the new rules.
 
 Kesarkar said when a VIP like a minister is travelling, there should be something to distinguish his car from other vehicles for the purpose of security. In Madhya Pradesh, while some netas of the ruling BJP grudgingly followed CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan's example and removed the beacon, 
  . The Central Motor Vehicle Rules does not provide for use of siren or hooter in any vehicle. Under Section 119 of the CMVR, exceptions are made for ambulances, fire brigades and construction equipment vehicles besides those used by police.
 
 When asked about the use of sirens by some politicians and bureaucrats, Bhopal ARTO Sanjay Tiwari told TOI: “Only the transport department and police have the right to use hooters. No one else can. We will fine vehicles using hooters Rs 5,000 each.“
 
  
  
 The sight of hooters upset citizens who had welcomed the  . “Beacons are gone, but what about hooters and sirens? It's irritating when vehicles blaring sirens tailgate you and try to overtake even on narrow roads. Sirens have no use, apart from emergency vehicles, and only add to noise pollution,“ said Vineet Sharma, a private firm employee.
 
 In Hyderabad, motorists travelling towards Panjagutta from Khairatabad were in for a rude shock as a vehicle with siren kept on honking.“Initially, I thought it was an ambulance trying to make way and I swerved towards the left, but soon I realised it was actually a politican's car. The beacon was not flashing, but the driver kept the siren on,“ an eyewitness said. The blaring siren went on for five minutes before the car eventually sped away at the signal towards Ameerpet.
 
 Elsewhere in the city, many VIPs were seen using sirens near road junctions, extracting “green channel“ from the traffic police posted there at the expense of common motorists. When contacted, Hyderabad joint commissioner of police (Traffic) V Ravinder said pilot vehicles of VIPs generally use siren only near junctions and not otherwise. “It amounts to noise pollution and we do not allow its extensive usage,“ he said.
 
 Moreover, there was confusion about red beacons on the very first day of the ban. Tiwari said there is no intimation regarding the ban and the penalty for defaulters. “We have not received any notification in this regard. I can comment on it only after receiving any instruction,“ he said.
 
 In December 2013, the Supreme Court had directed states to amend the motor vehicle rules to restrict the use of the   and impose “exemplary fine“ on those who misuse it. The court said only constitutional authorities would be allowed to use the red beacon.
 
 
 
 
