THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: An attempt by the   management to settle the student strike by transferring principal   from the college to its research centre, functioning on another campus, on Tuesday failed to convince the joint action council of students. The SFI, however, accepted the suggestion to keep the principal out of office for five years and withdrew from the 21-day-long strike. 

 The other student unions - KSU, AISF, MSF and the ABVP - rejected the formula as they hadn't been part of the discussion. It alleged that the SFI, a late entrant in the strike, had vested interests in settling the strike. The SFI decision didn't sound convincing even to senior CPM leader  , who said important issues raised in the strike hadn't been settled.
 
 Earlier, SFI state secretary M Vijin claimed that they could put pressure on the management to keep Lekshmi Nair away from the principal's post for five years. "She would not even work as a faculty member of the college during this period. The management has also accepted several other demands aimed at ensuring transparency in the conduct of the course and personal freedom and dignity to students," he said.
 
 Academy founder director N   told reporters that Lekshmi Nair had been removed from the principal's post and the charge given to vice-principal Madhavan Potti. "The university syndicate has already debarred Lekshmi Nair from examination duties for five years. She wouldn't perform the duty of the principal or even that of a faculty member for the next five years. She will serve as the director of the academy's research institute during this time. This agreement will remain valid even if she gets favourable orders from the court," he said.
 
 Narayanan Nair said all student unions were invited for Tuesday's talks but only the SFI turned up. "The issue has been settled. The academy will be reopened for classes tomorrow (February 1). We will be forced to conduct classes with the aid of police and the court if the protests continued," he said.
 
 The discussions reached a 17-point agreement, which includes setting up a grievance redressal forum, publication of monthly attendance reports, transparency in awarding internal marks and formation of a college council. 
 
 
