Colva:   and town and country planning minister Vijay Sardesai on Tuesday visited the   (SGPDA) fish market at 8.30am with   chairperson Renuka D’Silva, and assured vendors in both the sheds that by December 19 he will renovate the premises so that the public feels welcome. 

 The minister went around telling vendors that henceforth sale of fish at retail prices at the wholesale market will be stopped. He told reporters, “I have asked authorities to immediately stop migrants from selling fish here, but Goan fisherfolk who bring their catch here, like two baskets, will be allowed.”
 
 Retail fish vendors in the SGPDA fish market in Margao had moved away from the pathway from October 1, after assurances from Sardesai that retail sale of fish would be stopped in the wholesale market.
 
 Felix Gonsalves, a vendor, said that on the promise of the minister we “cleared the footpath and in return he cracked down on the migrants who were selling fish in the wholesale market at retail prices”.
 
 “Fish weighing less than 5kg (counter sale) will not be allowed to be sold in the wholesale market and that too will stop by 9am,” Sardesai said. 
 
 He added that fish cutters will be allowed to chop fish at the wholesale market till 8am and if anybody violates the instruction, they will be prevented from carrrying out their business.
 
 The Fatorda MLA promised vendors a new flooring, independent electrical meters, water supply and ice storage facility, and the entire shed will be monitored through   cameras. He warned fish vendors that after the revamp, they will have to maintain cleanliness to the extent that bad odour does not emanate from it.
 
 The legislator also assured fish cutters that their demands of a clean shed and water supply would be met in the same time duration.
 
 Sardesai instructed the traffic police to bring about a system in parking of vehicles. “For three days, try educating the people to park properly in allotted spaces after which start issuing fines,” he directed traffic DySP Praboth Shirvoikar. He subsequently visited the wholesale market and expressed his disgust at the conditions not only of the market, but also of the road and drains. 
 
