PUNE: Mere indifference to the  , or even local politics, should not be blamed entirely for the low voter turnout in local elections, according to an officially-sanctioned study. In fact, the study blames laxity on the part of the district administration. 

 The Gokhale  , in a study commissioned by the state election commission, found that   from the voters’ list is the primary reason for the low turnout of 55% in the 2012 municipal elections.
 
 Six wards in the city were surveyed. Of these, four wards — NIBM, Vimannagar, Balewadi and Kothrud — reported a low turnout while two wards — Hadapsar and Alka Talkies — had a high turnout. 
 
 Around 1,800 responses were considered for the study. Of those, 1,200 were from areas with a low voter turnout, while the rest were from areas with high turnout. 
 
 “If a citizen is not able to vote due to not finding their name in the voters list, it should be a matter of concern to the administration,” said lead researcher Manasi Phadke. “While the civic elections showed this as the main reason, even the 2014 Lok Sabha elections had many instances of citizens being turned away for the same reason,” she said. 
 
 In the 2012 municipal elections, in the areas that had low turnouts, the study found that nearly 50% could not find their names in the list. 
 
 Among other reasons cited by the respondents were indifference, and not being in the city at the time of voting. 
 
 Around 43% of the population said that casting a vote would not make any difference, while 22% maintained that they were out of town during this period.
 
 Phadke added that top three reasons for voting were found to be a responsibility to vote (50%), voting for a good candidate (24%) and no proxy voting allowed (19%).
 
 The study, which was conducted jointly with the   and Commerce and Economics in the last week of December, was met with some resistance. “It was not an easy task as many refused to answer questions,” said Phadke.
 
 A low interest in politics and low engagement with local elections too have been cited in the study. “Only 50% felt proud for voting while only 20% felt guilty for not voting,” said Phadke.
 
 The study also finds that voting percentage is inversely proportional to the level of the respondent’s educatio, and that women were intermittent voters. In the six wards, 30% of the people vote regularly, 30% vote rarely and 40% are intermittent voters. “These people have to be converted through innovative campaigns,” she said. 
 
 
