CHANDIGARH: The fire department of Chandigarh MC is fighting a fire of its own, given the acute staff crunch it is facing and its ageing fleet of fire engines and ambulances.

 For a population of over 10 lakh, with 2.35 lakh households ­ 2.28 lakh (urban) and 6785 (rural), the fire department, which came into being in June 1956, has just 44 vehicles, of which 16 have crossed the prescribed lifespan of 15 years. The department is also grappling with shortage of manpower, leaving the staff overburdened. Of the 602 sanctioned posts, only 240 have been filled. Around 200 posts of firemen are vacant. This means, the city has just one firefighter per 4,400 people.
 
 The list of 16 outdated vehicles includes all three ambulances of the department. Two of the ambulances were bought 28 years ago, while all the remaining 14 vehicles were inducted into the fleet around 19 years ago.
 
 The decision of UT administration to ban vehicles older than 15 years has compounded the department's problems. It has urged the state transport authority (STA) to allow it to use old vehicles till they are replaced with new vehicles.
 
 Talking to TOI, STA additional secretary   said they had submitted a file to the transport secretary , but he was yet to take a call on it.
 
 For purchase of new vehicles, the MC house, during a meeting on March 20, had approved a budget of Rs 6 crore for replacement of vehicles, which have completed a lifespan of 15 years.
 
 However, it will take an other four to five months for purchasing new vehicles. To make matter worse, the existing fleet is not properly maintained, leading to non-availability of vehicles at times.
 
 The fire department also lacks a good communication system. The existing wireless system was installed long time ago and is due to be upgraded. Councillor  , who heads the fire committee, said they are working to overcome shortcomings pertaining to outdated vehicles, communication system and shortage of staff. “We have initiated the process of purchasing new vehicles and setting up of a new control room,“ said Sharma. He said the department had also proposed to set up two more fire stations.
 
 Chief fire officer   said they had written to police for setting up a control room with latest equipment. “The process for acquiring new vehicles and recruiting more men has already been initiated,“   said.
 
