KOLHAPUR: The senior citizens’ ordeal continued for the second consecutive month since the Centre announced the   drive as most of them failed to withdraw their full pension amount for January after spending several hours in banks on Monday and Tuesday. 

 Most banks in this western Maharashtra town continued to feel the currency crunch as the apex bank is yet to remit cash for the chest of banks. 
 
 The nationalised banks, which distribute pensions, were forced to reduce the weekly withdrawal limits from Rs 24,000 to Rs 10,000 in the absence of adequate cash. As a result, several senior citizens had to spend hours together at banks to withdraw pension, but in vain. 
 
 “I spent two hours in a queue at a State Bank of India (SBI) branch. There were various counters to collect coupons and withdrawal slips. This process itself took an hour. Then I had to wait in another queue to get my passbook updated at a printing machine. This meant more delay. I thought one more machine would have reduced the rush, but none seems to be bothered. The officials at the bank asked me to return next week for withdrawing the rest of my pension amount,” said central government   Appa Gundu Patil, a resident Nagaon, Hatkanagale. 
 
 State government pensioner   said, “Today (Tuesday) was the second round of inconvenience. I had faced a similar situation in December. There seems to be no end to the cash crunch. Bank officials were not cooperative and I did not get the full amount. I was asked to visit the bank again next week.” 
 
 A senior SBI official said, “The cash crunch is continuing for two months. Even the ATMs are functioning with the cash locally available. Since November 8, we have received cash only once. We are trying to maintain the cash flow with help from deposits by local traders and with the   (MSRTC). It’s a burden for us to ensure cash availability in the market.”
 
 A senior official of another nationalised bank said the   has pledged cash supply to us anytime. “The currency may arrive in the next couple of days. Once it happens, it will be ease the situation.” 
 
 
