NEW DELHI:   CM Naveen Patnaik’s visit to Delhi which saw him meet party MPs was intended to signal that he is fit and fine and remains focussed on leading his party in the 2019   elections.

 His discussions with BJD MPs saw him ask for specific MPs to be put in charge of pursuing Odisha’s outstanding issues with the Centre with the intention of quickening project clearance, said sources.
 
 Patnaik obliquely addressed the recent “tweet” controversies that saw senior MPs Baijayant Panda and   crossing swords over alleged attempts to split the party, making his preferences clear in the distribution of work regarding Odisha’s pending issues like minimum support price for paddy, clean energy cess, coal royalties and some railway projects.
 
 In his interaction with party MPs, he responded to suggestions on certain aspects of the party’s organisational functioning and indicated he would follow up some issues in Bhubaneshwar.
 
 The exercise, sources said, was to make it plain that Patnaik remains in control and is alert to organisational and governance issues despite reverses in panchayat polls that have seen   make big gains.
 
 Patnaik met BJP netas to take up Odisha’s demands and also interacted with opposition leaders like   chief   before leaving on Tuesday. 
 
 The view in BJD is that Patnaik will take his time in dealing with critics like Panda and is not likely to be baited into action before he thinks it is time, even though he seems to taken note of developments.
 
 Odisha’s assembly polls are contiguous with Lok Sabha elections and BJP netas feel the CM is not likely to lose sight of the need to complete his current term and deliver on key goals.
 
 Patnaik seems to have been alerted about the possibility of disgruntled elements teaming up with BJP and is expected to gradually isolate some leaders from the party decision making. 
 
 He might well have been considering action against some party netas when Satpathy’s tweet about likely   horses in the BJD brought the speculation out into the open. 
 
 Since then, Panda has written a newspaper article calling for action to set right the rot in the party but without eliciting any response from Patnaik who was distinctly cool to him in the meeting with party MPs in Delhi.
 
