CHENNAI: In an effort to confront   including engineers and hold them accountable for   of government  , a group of social activists and residents has decided to meet the   Girija Vaidyanathan. Retired IAS officer M G Devasagayam will spearhead the movement which is to be taken forward by   and Water Rejuvenation Forum.

 As most parts of the state including Chennai have already hit by water scarcity, the civic forum will demand answers from bureaucrats charged with the responsibility of carrying out projects sanctioned by ministers. Devasagayam said, “Targeting politicians for poor implementation of projects is not the right way. Officials tasked with executing projects accept bribes and take cover behind politicians. We are forming a task force to target corrupt officials.”
 
 The forum of civic associations includes People’s Voice, People’s Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL), State Bank of India Officers Association, People’s Awareness Association, Sabari Green Foundation, and Swaraj Abhiyan. The forum held a work shop on Tamil Nadu’s Cry for Water – Evolving Solutions at SBOA School & Junior College, Anna Nagar on Thursday.
 
 Speaking at the workshop attended by teachers, the Madras Institute of Development Studies (MIDS) professor S Janakarajan said the groundwater level is depleting in the city. Janakarajan said, “Chennai has five water reservoirs and three rivers. There is no reason for the city to suffer a drought.” Supply by Metrowater in most added areas of the city has dwindled, leading to a rise in sale of canned water and tanker loads.
 
 Terming Metrowater a corrupt agency, Devasagayam said, “They create an artificial demanding by withholding piped supply despite availability of water. This is done to allow water tanker operators to thrive.” The former bureaucrat also placed blame on Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority and local bodies for allowing registration of water bodies for construction. “Despite the recent   order cracking down on regularisation of water bodies, real estate dealers continue to register prohibited areas for sale.”
 
