BENGALURU: The BJP is perceived as a party that doesn’t allow dissension in its ranks, an aspect that only makes the feud between the BJP state president and former chief minister   and former deputy CM and senior party leader  , harder to explain.

 Sources said that the former CM had the support of BJP national president  . “Even the legislators back him. But Eshwarappa has the support of a few BJP old-timers. However, if the two senior leaders do not bury their differences, it will be hard to achieve the target of 150 seats in the 2018 polls. The party might have to settle for 50, or even 15 seats,” they added.
 
 The rift between the two Shivamogga leaders now appears to have divided the party cadre. On Monday, former MP and Yeddyurappa supporter, Ayanur Manjunath, and Shivamogga district unit president   questioned MLC M Bhanuprakash for criticising Yeddyurappa. On Tuesday, Yeddyurappa supporters also demanded action against Eshwarappa’s supporters. 
 
 Sources in the party opine that both leaders have the support of senior national leaders. “Although Yeddyurappa is being projected as the chief ministerial candidate for the 2018 assembly polls, a few senior leaders would like to see his position weakened,” sources said.
 
 Party insiders pointed out that Yeddyurappa’s decision to reward those who exited the party along with him in 2012, to form the Karnataka Janata Paksha, remained the pet peeve of his detractors. “They also claim that the office-bearers in the state unit were appointed unilaterally, without holding consultations,” they added.
 
 Eshwarappa willing to talk to BSY
 
 In the first signs of a thaw in their increasingly frosty relationship, Eshwarappa on Tuesday said that he was willing to sit down and sort out his differences with Yeddyurappa. “I am ready for a face-to-face meeting with him. But he has to consider my two demands,” Eshwarappa said.
 
 These two demands entail reorganisation of the state BJP unit, and the party’s tacit support for the  . “I met Amit Shah on January 13, and told him where I stood. He was convinced. He has agreed to visit Karnataka, and talk to me and Yeddyurappa,” said Eshwarappa.
 
 However, with Shah having his hands full with assembly elections scheduled in five months, he would be free to visit the state only after March, Eshwarappa said. “I am hoping Yeddyurappa invites me for a talk before that, and ends the impasse in the party soon,” he added.
 
 Yeddyurappa is likely to meet the signatories to the memorandum, which was sent to the central leadership, where they have raised concerned over the way he is running the party, on Thursday.
 
