CHENNAI: The lessons from the floods of December 2015 seem to have been forgotten as water bodies continue to be seen as disposable and fertile grounds to establish commercial establishments.

  In a flagrant violation of the Madras high court order, the   (CMRL) has sought reclassification of a waterbody in the heart of the city for commercial use. A similar application has been filed by an individual to change the land use of a waterbody at Varadharajapuram near Tambaram, which witnessed unprecedented floods in December 2015.
 
 The CMRL has recently filed three applications with the planning authority for reclassification. Of these, one application seeks to change the land use of a plot measuring 19,540sqft at Puliyur village in   taluk. Puliyur village comprise areas in Kodambakkam and   in the city. With the plot identified as a waterbody in the CMDA’s second master plan, metro rail has approached the planning authority for changing it to commercial use zone.
 
 Meanwhile, an individual has sought conversion of a portion of land at Naduveerapattu and Varadharajapuram in Kundarathur panchayat union of Kancheepuram. As per the masterplan, the survey number of the plot is mentioned as an agriculture use zone and water body. The area of about 16 acres has been sought to be reclassified as commercial use zone for carving out residential plots and institutional purposes.
 
 “This is in clear violation of the Madras high court order,” said B Kannan, secretary of T Nagar Residents Welfare Association. The court had given strict directions that waterbodies should be protected from encroachments in the aftermath of unprecedented floods two years ago. “Indiscriminate constructions over waterbodies was attributed as a main cause of the floods in 2015. Conversion of waterbodies will cause ecological imbalance leading to flooding, as the natural flow is affected,” he said.
 
 Environmentalists blame the absence of an urban policy on waterbodies and strategy of the state wetland authority for the declining number of these critical spaces.
 
 When contacted, CMDA sources said the application from CMRL is under process. “But, we will take a decision after examining documents including the revenue records,” a   said. However, the official did not comment when queried about the   filed by the private individual for Varadharajapuram. Also, CMRL did not reply to calls and messages from TOI.
 
