THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Beware of any attempt to create an   or  . The   department has started inspection in all hospitals, including private, and also among the distributors. “We have already conducted inspections at leading hospitals in Thiruvananthapuram, Kochi and Kozhikode. We have not received any complaints on shortage of stents. Strict action will be taken against those engaging in unethical practices," said Ravi S Menon, state drugs controller in-charge.

 There were reports that many companies have started withdrawing costly stents from the market after the national pharmaceutical pricing authority (NPPA) fixed the ceiling price of drug eluting stents and bioresorbable stents at Rs 30,000 and bare metal stents at Rs 7,500.
 
 “The Centre has already given directive to take action if there is any attempt to create artificial shortage,'' said Menon.
 
 The intelligence team of the   department has started inspecting the distributors of the stents in the state.
 
 “There are only three or four companies which are distributing stents in the state. We have already asked them to take adequate steps for implementing the new pricing. We also had a discussion with the manufacturers on this. They have promised that there will be no shortage,'' said the drugs controller.
 
 However, the manufacturers have started withdrawing high-end stents from the hospitals since they are not ready to sell them at the new price fixed by the NPPA. “But this will not create a crisis since bioresorbable and bare metal stents are available. It is a fact that manufacturers have started withdrawing high-end stents that are priced above Rs1.5 lakh,'' said Dr G Vijayaraghavan, vice-chairman of KIMS Hospital.
 
 Even though the attempt of NPPA is to bring down the treatment expense, there are concerns whether this will achieve the desired result.
 
 “Most of the hospitals in the private sector are offering cardiology treatment in packages and hence, the patient will not be aware of the rates of stents. We have asked all hospitals to specify the rate of stents in separate bill,'' said the drugs controller.
 
 He said that if the rates of the packages were remaining the same, then it has to be understood that the hospitals have increased the charges in other categories.
 
