CHANDIGARH: To avoid further embarrassment, the Manohar Lal Khattar-led Haryana government has set aside the recent selection of 96 fishermen-cum-watchmen in the  . The selection had sparked a controversy with allegations of nepotism and favouritism in the recruitment process. Haryana cabinet minister  , who is heading the department, was accused of favouritism in these selections.

 The decision to cancel the selection process was taken by RK Sangwan, director of the Fisheries department, on December 30 last year. The department has also sent a letter to the state government on January 3, seeking permission to make fresh recruitments for the post, either through an independent agency or by   (HSSC). TOI had first reported on December 24 last year about the alleged scam in which a candidate -- who could not even swim, and was about to drown during the test -- was selected, ignoring meritorious candidates who stood first and second in the test. It was the first such major allegation in recruitment against the   government after it took over in October 2014.
 
 Irregularities include the selection of 96 candidates, whereas the advertisement was for only 90 posts, with a substantial number of selections from the minister’s constituency (including from his village), and selection of those closely associated with the department’s director, or kith and kin of members of the selection committee. The matter came into limelight after one Sanjay Kumar -- a resident of village Suneheri in district Kurukshetra -- and several others who participated in the selection process, had raised the issue and approached the court.
 
 The Fisheries department had advertised for the 90 posts on February 11 last year, and the final list of 96 selected candidates was released on December 12. The petitioners had told the court that the entire selection was a fraud, with merit being the first casualty. As the entire selection was videographed, they wanted the tapes to be examined, as it would reveal how meritorious candidates were not selected, and those who performed the worst were preferred, just because they had close connections with ministers and selection committee members.
 
 Finding some apparent irregularities in the selection process, the  , on December 21 last year, had ordered to seal the record pertaining to the selection, and restrained selected candidates from joining the department, if any of them had not been given an appointment. The court had also issued a notice to the minister, Dhankar, all the selected candidates, as well as the state government and members of the selection committee to file a response on the allegations of favouritism and nepotism in such selections.
 
