Bhopal: In an apparent attempt to blunt clamour from a section of party leaders to drop minister of state Sanjay Pathak from the cabinet, the BJP categorically rejected the demand. Saying that the demand was made by some ‘nonentities’ and was not BJP's official statement, the party says someone cannot be removed from the cabinet just on the basis of allegations about involvement in multi-crore  . The party also dubbed Congress agitation on the issue as a `planned drama'.

 “There were conflicting remarks by some leaders, but they are nonentities and insignificant. The BJP leaders should maintain restraint till the investigation in the case is over,” said BJP state head Nandkumar Singh Chauhan while talking to reporters at party’s regional office, on Wednesday.
 
 Nandkumar's statement came a couple of days after BJP leaders said Sanjay Pathak should resign on moral grounds. Former minister Ajay Vishnoi, former Rajya Sabha member Raghunandan Sharma and BJP veteran Babulal Gaur reacted sharply to multi-crore hawala scam and shifting of Katni SP in midst of investigations into the case. But, the BJP state chief rejected their demands.
 
 BJP state president’s statement and seniors as a ‘nonentity’ has surprised several party leaders. The BJP state head said Congress was making a mountain out of a molehill, but ensured those involved in the scam would not be spared while innocent will not be punished. He mocked Opposition Congress’ agitation on Monday in which a few party leaders, including state Congress chief sustained injuries in police lathi-charge, terming it as a ‘drama’.
 
 “Congress worker pelted stones on cops and tried to barge into the chief minister's official residence by breaking the barricades. Police personnel were outnumbered and helpless before a huge crowd. I learnt how Congress stage-managed the entire issue and got it clicked wearing bandages,” said Nandkumar. 
 
 “One of the Congress woman leaders was seen demanding a doctor to fix her bandage for taking pictures,” he quipped. A day earlier in Ratlam, the BJP chief said the Congress was agitated over Pathak's name, but he cannot be removed only on the basis of allegations.
 
 Katni collector Vishesh Garhpale claimed the situation in Katni is normal and day today life is unaffected. He said media is overplaying entire issue. The situation in the district, including rural areas, is absolutely calm.
 
 “There was an agitation, which ended the same day. The situation is normal and markets are open. I would not to comment on investigation into the case, but will say no mining mafia is active anywhere in the state,” Garhpale told TOI over phone. The district collector dubbed transfer of SP Gaurav Tiwari as a routine administrative process.
 
 
