Mohali: A few days after the role of junior assistant Kesar Singh as head of the sanitation department’s cattle-catching squad came under scanner, the municipal corporation has transferred him and seized all his powers as team leader.

 Confirming the development, municipal commissioner Sandeep Hans said here on Tuesday: “Kesar Singh has been transferred. He will no more head the stray-cattle-catching team but be assigned duties in some other department yet to be decided. We are in the process of finding a suitable replacement. I am holding an inquiry into the allegations of his being hand in glove with dairy owners, facilitating them, and not discharging his duties properly. Further action will be taken once the inquiry is complete.”
 
 Recently, Kesar Singh has accused Mohali legislator Balbir Singh Sidhu of misbehaviour, using foul language, and restricting a government official from performing his duties. Last week, Kesar Singh filed this complaint with mayor Kulwant Singh, municipal commissioner Sandeep Hans, and the senior superintendent of police at Mohali. This was two days after MLA Sidhu had caught him allegedly tipping off cattle owners on telephone about his coming raid. After the call, the cattle owners had removed their animals tied in a park in Sector 71.
 
 Legislator Sidhu said: “Such employees disgrace the municipal corporation and must not remain on public-dealing posts. The conduct of junior assistant Kesar Singh is unethical, against the government, and supporting his vested interest. He has been caught favoring the cattle owners who tied their animals in parks.” Last week, the legislator had received a call from some residents of Sector 71 that cattle owners had tied their cattle in a public park and the MC had taken no action. Upon reaching the park, the MLA observed that stray-cattle-catching team in-charge Kesar Singh had forewarned the cattle owners about his visit and they had removed their cattle.”
 
 Kesar Singh said about the MLA’s charges: “The legislator abuse me in full public view and also prevented me from discharging my official duties. So I was forced to lodge a complaint against him with the mayor and the MC commissioner. I am not in league with the cattle owners. They have beaten me up many times for impounding their cattle but no FIR (first-information report) has ever been lodged.”
 
 
