KOCHI: The popular use of initials in their names is turning out to be a nightmare for Malayali taxpayers. 

 As the date to file I-T returns closes in, they are a troubled lot with many among them getting mismatch alerts while trying to link their Aadhaar cards with PAN cards. The problem is that their names are stated differently in different cards, thanks to their use of initials.
 
  The rush to link the cards began following the Central government’s decision to amend the  , 2017, which made Aadhaar mandatory for filing income tax returns. Taxpayers in Kerala who have single letters in their names as initials are the ones who find it difficult to adhere to the amendment.
 
  “Many have been facing difficulties in linking their Aadhaar cards with PAN cards as their names were written in different ways in different cards,” said  , a city-based chartered accountant.
 
 “Some have their full names on their PAN cards. But in their Aadhaar cards they have their initials. For instance, one of my client has the name Ramnath Keshava Pillai. However, he normally uses the shortened form, Ramnath K. His Aadhaar card says he is   while his PAN card says it is  ,” said Ragesh, adding that many people face the same problem.
 
 The I-T department in the state has been getting calls on a daily basis over the issue and has sought a clarification from the centre. 
 
 “The problem has come to our come notice. We understand that several people have been finding it difficult to link their  . We are sure about finding a solution as early as possible. People need not panic as there is enough time. They need to file their I-T returns only by July. We are expecting a clarification from the central authorities within the first week of April,” said an I-T department official. 
 
  Meanwhile, many applying for new PAN cards online on the websites of the PAN card service providers too have been facing similar difficulties.
 
  “The website does not accept single letters as first name, middle name or the last name. When the full name is used to bypass the error, mismatch occurs,” said  , a city tax payer adding that the authorities need to immediately address the issue.
 
 
