An early 14th century   built during the reign of Allauddin Khilji, probably the only   era mosque in Delhi which is said to have been built to serve as the tomb of  , is undergoing a comprehensive conservation exercise for the first time.

 The   Khana masjid, a living monument where namaaz is still offered five times a day, is not protected by the Archeological Survey of India (ASI) and is maintained by the dargah committee.
 
 Conservation work in the masjid is being undertaken by the Aga Khan Trust for Culture (AKTC), which is working on a major urban conservation effort in the Hazrat Nizamuddin basti.
 
 As per estimates, over four million pilgrims visit the Nizamuddin dargah from across the world every year. According to the Sufi saint’s wish, Hazrat Nizamuddin Auliya was buried in the open courtyard and the tomb was extended to serve as a mosque.
 
 On the completion of the Humayun’s Tomb conservation in 2015, the dargah committee, led by Najmi Nizami, approached the AKTC to undertake conservation of the Jamaat Khana mosque. The community felt that in 700 years the building had suffered significant deterioration and needed a fresh lease of life.
 
 "This is a very significant masjid and Hazrat Nizamuddin Auliya offered namaaz here. While from time to time, we undertook essential repairs in the masjid, we did not have the expertise or the budget to conserve it with the kind of repairs such an ancient building needed. This is when we approached AKTC for the job because we have seen their work and feel no one can do a better job. This is the first time, conservation work at this scale has been undertaken at the masjid," said Nizami.
 
 This is the first ever conservation effort at any of India’s unprotected mosque structure that is still in use for prayers. The masjid is a large structure -- 100 feet wide and the central dome reaching 50 feet in height.
 
 Neetipal Brar, AKTC conservation architect, said: "Principal objectives for the conservation effort have been to ensure long term preservation as well as restore the original builder’s design and layout."
 
 Conservation work has been completed recently in the principal central chamber, where craftsmen carefully removed several layers of cement plaster and then repaired the damaged sandstone blocks.
 
 According to the architects, portions of the wall were painted with lead-based paints that had set off the deterioration process in the sandstone blocks and in order to ensure long term preservation the paint layers were removed manually using soft sandpaper only.
 
 AKTC project director Ratish Nandasaid: "The mosque is one of the most significant structures in the city, though unprotected. It is a privilege to work with the community – who are keepers of this significant heritage – in the process there is knowledge transfer which will help the future generations ensure long term preservation of this grand structure. Hopefully communities countrywide will be inspired by this effort."
 
 
