MARGAO: Margao MLA and senior Congress functionary   told his party workers on Thursday that the failure of the party leadership in forming an alliance with Vijai Sardesai’s   was a blunder that cost them the chance to form the government. 

 “Had the Congress aligned with Vijai Sardesai’s party, we could have ended up winning 21-22 seats easily and formed the government. I told them so many times to have an alliance with Vijai before the elections. I told this to the party leaders even in Delhi, but they didn’t listen,” Kamat said, while addressing a meeting of his party workers. 
 
 The former chief minister further hit out strongly against the central Congress leadership for failing to make swift moves to cobble up a majority after the results were declared, and stake claim to form the government. In the strongest-ever comment made by Kamat targeting the party leadership following the drama over government formation, he said: “Congress is a good party, but it is because of the mistakes committed by the party leaders that we have to suffer,” in an oblique reference to AICC general secretary  , holding him responsible for the party’s failure in forming the government. 
 
 Deriding the party leadership further, Kamat said, “The people had offered Congress the morsel of power, but Congress leadership, unable to know what to do with it, quietly handed it over to  .”
 
 Kamat reasoned that had the party leadership accepted Sardesai’s demands, Congress would have been able to form the government.
 
 He said Congress functionaries reached out to Sardesai as soon as the counting was over, only to be told by him that the party take a quick decision over who would head the  . “Congress leadership once again contacted Vijai the next morning, and again they were told by Vijai to decide fast about the CLP leader. Vishwajeet Rane has told (the media) that Vijai’s condition to support the Congress government was to make Digambar the chief minister. But they didn’t act…,” Kamat said. 
 
 “However, you need not worry. I was the chief minister when Congress came to power (in the 2007 elections). Good days for Congress will come soon. Do not get disappointed,” he told his workers. 
 
 Kamat also scotched rumours that he was quitting Congress.
 
