Mumbai:   will be no different this year. With work on around 1,000 roads dragging at snail’s pace, Mumbai seems all set for another round of harrowing monsoon travel. The works include repairs, resurfacing, milling and carpentry.

 Citizens are complaining about several roads having been dug up and at most places, they claim, work is moving very slowly. This year, the   has taken up two kinds of repairs: The usual ‘project works’ —roads are fixed from base layer—and resurfacing—only top layer is scrapped and relaid. Resurfacing work is being carried out on roads that report repeated pothole complaints. 
 
 After the rains retreated in October 2016, the BMC took up 1,004 roads for repairs. Out of these, the BMC again took up 558 under the project works category and has completed repairs on 114, said civic officials. The BMC aims to fix 369 roads under this category, but the task seems uphill as there is a shortage of raw materials. 
 
 Western suburbs, at 277, has the most number of roads under repairs. Bandra corporator   said he has got complaints about contractors delaying work. “The St Paul’s stretch is worst hit. In one case, a contractor has been blacklisted and he is delaying work as he fears he will not be paid,” he said. A Bandra-based activist, Shyama Kulkarni, said the works have led to pollution. “Rains are barely any time away but the work is on at a slow pace,” said Kulkarni. 
 
 Dadar-based activist Ashok Rawat said near Plaza cinema work is moving very slow. “There is a market in the area and tempos are always parked there. The repairs have worsened the situation,” said Rawat. 
 
 King Circle activist Nikhil Desai said roads being dug up for utility works and   has compounded the problem. “On one side road works are going on and on the other, utility firms are digging,” he said.
 
 MMRDA’s joint project director (public relations)   said, “We have barricaded work sites. Traffic diversions have been planned to ensure smooth traffic. Also, debris is being transported late in the night to prevent snarls.”
 
 A BMC official said repairs will be stopped as soon as rains hits the city. Contractors who fail to complete works will have to maintain that particular stretch throughout the season. “We have given a May 30 deadline,” said the official. 
 
 (Inputs from Manthan K Mehta)
 
