HARIDWAR: In the holy city of Haridwar, which way will the sadhu community vote this time? This is a question to which there are no easy answers, say political analysts.   has fielded  , an influential godman against BJP's  , a three-time MLA.
 
  The move is expected to cut into the traditional vote bank of the saffron party as the sadhu community comprises a substantial portion of the almost 1.45 lakh strong electorate. Swami Surendra Muni of Jagatram Udasin Ashram, Kankhal, claims that many ashrams, who earlier supported BJP, are supporting Congress now. “We have tested Madan Kaushik three times. It’s time for a change now moreso when a member of our community is standing for election. Therefore, we will support him,” he says.
  
  However, not all seers support the view. Baba Hathyogi, former spokesman of Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad, says that there is rising anger against the state government which will be directed against the Congress candidate. “The Harish Rawat government has failed miserably in checking mining in the Ganga. It has also raised house tax rates for religious institutions arbitrarily. Besides, it has done nothing regarding prohibition. All this will have a bearing on the elections,” he alleges.
  
  There are some within the community who are disappointed with both the major parties in the fray, preferring instead to use the NOTA option. “All politicians are guilty of doing nothing to sort out our problems,” says Swami Achyutanand of Bhuma Niketan. He adds that many sadhus have decided not to vote for any party. “We launched an agitation for several days demanding adequate water at Ganga ghats as pilgrims were returning disappointed seeing no water in the river for ritual bath. We called off the agitation on the CM's assurance. But he did nothing in the matter, so we feel cheated. Neither has the BJP government taken any measures to promote tourism,” he alleges.
  
  BJP MLA Madan Kaushik however denies the allegations. “The BJP government at the Centre is taking effective measures to clean the Ganga. If the party comes to power in Uttarakhand, the state government with the help of the Centre will accomplish the work faster and to the satisfaction of the seer community. The tax imposed on ashram and akharas will also be kept within justifiable limits,” he says.
  
  In a similar vein, Congress party spokesman Rajesh Shivpuri told TOI, “There is enough water available now at most Ganga ghats. Pollution in the river is largely the Centre’s responsibility and the state is doing its bit to rectify it. As far as the house tax rates are concerned, even the CM has admitted they need to be reworked. If the Congress is voted back to power, we will review the rates and try to address people's grievances in this matter.”
