BHOAPL: The verdict in the   murder case has not only given relief to BJP leader and former MLA Dhruv Narayan Singh but, also the ruling party who had been under continuous attack by the   ever since the investigations began into the case and later.

 After the judgement, BJP claimed it was a political blame game played up by the Congress to malign party's image. The leaders, however, distanced themselves on moral grounds as far as involvement of Singh is concerned saying, CBI must have interrogated all concerned in the case before submitting its report.
 
 “From the very first day BJP had stated that the case should not be politicised. Law will take its own course and justice will prevail. The court verdict is clear and BJP respects the verdict,” said BJP state chief spokesperson  .
 
 After Shehla's murder, Dhruv was quizzed by CBI several times during investigation as his name had cropped up in the initial phase of probe. The suspicion over his involvement increased after CBI arrested three accused including Zahida Parvez and recovered ‘clinching evidences’ during searches carried out at the premises of Zahida and Dhruv.
 
 After the case hogged limelight, Dhruv Narayan Singh kept a low profile and was dissociated from party activities. He was denied a party ticket during state assembly elections in 2013 and also a position in the state owned undertakings.
 
 BJP state leadership had also distanced itself from the murder case even as Congress pressed with its demand to interrogate BJP national spokesperson Tarun Vijay who was also associated with Shehla. Congress had also demanded to interrogate state BJP vice-president Vijesh Lunawat into the case for being involved with Dhruv Narayan's social organisation Uday. Shehla was president of Uday while, Lunawat was secretary. But, BJP leaders deny their involvement saying CBI investigation must have covered all angles. 
 
 “CBI investigation must have covered all concerned people who were involved in the crime in any way. The agency also interrogated all people who were a part of the murder conspiracy. So, we believe that whatever CBI has done is under the purview of law and with all evidences. If Congress is demanding that all persons should be interrogated then it should provide evidences to the agency or the court'', said Vijayavargiya.
 
 After the court verdict, senior BJP leaders observed that Dhruv Narayan Singh was morally involved in the entire case which caused embarrassment to the party. Now, bringing him back to active politics would earn the party a bad image. But, Dhruv‘s supporters felt that as he has been given a clean chit by the CBI in the murder case, he cannot be stopped from being a part of mainstream politics.
 
 “At least winning prospect is the main criteria in getting a poll ticket'', they said.
 
 
