KHANAURI (SANGRUR): Punjab's Khanauri area continues to be in spotlight as on Saturday 12 more dead bodies were recovered from Narwana in   of Haryana during the dredging of Bhakra Main Line (BML) canal. It is at this point that the 164km long BML branches into Rajasthan and Haryana and most of the bodies get stuck here, which surface later whenever repair work is carried out in the canal. The bodies recovered on Saturday probably had been lying stuck in silt for a long time. 

 Considered to be the place where Punjab's dead gather, Khanauri has three to four dead bodies appear at this barrage each day making it one of the most despicable spots along the BML that carries 12,455 cusecs of Sutlej water across the three states.
 
 The dead bodies drift here from Ropar, Fatehgarh Sahib, Patiala and Sangrur districts, bringing dozens of people from Punjab to this spot, who come in search of their missing kin.
 
 While most of the times the bodies are pulled out, but there are times when these are deliberately allowed to cross over to Haryana as police want to skip the paper work, says a local diver seeking anonymity.
 
 A local gurdwara's volunteers come here every week and perform last rites of the unidentified bodies, while the rest are shifted the dead house of the government civil hospital at the district headquarters. At times dogs can be seen dragging away the mutilated bodies and feeding on them, which the locals say is not uncommon.
 
 "My brother-in-law Pritam is missing from Patiala for the last three days and I came here to look for him yesterday. When I got to know that 12 bodies had been found at Narwana, I went there but could not identify any of the bodies as these got decomposed beyond recognition. So, I came back to Khanauri thinking I might find him here," said Kirpal Singh from Ropar.
 
 A local Sahara Charitable Trust had built a rest house for visiting families and local gurdwaras provide them food. Despite the locals seeking a dead house at Khanauri, where the bodies can be preserved, the government has not come up with any plans yet, said Balwinder Singh a resident of Khanauri.
 
 Those coming here in search of their close one hire the services of local divers who charge anywhere between Rs.5, 000 and Rs.15, 000 to pull out the corpses. "Many bodies remain submerged in the water especially during the winters when it takes at least seven to eight days of the bodies to come to the surface, while, in summers it takes three days", said Ashu Malik, one of the divers, who started bringing out dead bodies at the age of 12. "We fish out around 25 to 35 bodies a month, many are identified by their relatives, other go unreported and are cremated by the activists of a local gurdwara," he said.
 
 In 2012, the Punjab and Haryana high court directed the state government to install underwater cameras at the Khanauri head-works to spot bodies. The Sahara Trust erected around 20 floodlights and 13 CCTV cameras at the gate and main canal for better sighting. The police have also deputed a policeman at the water gates round the clock to keep tabs on any bodies recovered from the spot.
 
 A senior police official said, "Whenever, a body is sighted, necessary procedure is followed. A detailed record of all bodies recovered is maintained." He said that there are chances when the bodies that remain submerged cross over to the neighbouring state and are later found at different places.
 
 Meanwhile, various NGOs, Human Right organisations and even some educational societies have been raising concerns link the recovery of body at this barrage with the agrarian distress drug abuse and unemployment in the state.
 
 Bharatiya Kisan Union president Darshan Pal said the state farmers had a debt of over Rs 80,000 crore and thousands of farmers have committed suicide over the last many years.
 
