MADURAI: With   fast shrinking in the district, there is an increased interest among farmers in guava, which can be cultivated with limited supply of water. Besides, guava is fetching very handsome returns to farmers as the fruit is sold between Rs 60 and Rs 80 in the open market. 

 Raising the demand for quality guava saplings at the the recent farmers’ grievance redressal meeting, farming community leader M Pandian urged the horticulture department to guide farmers in carrying out  . “The crop can be raised with limited water sources and can withstand   conditions. The department should ensure that more guava saplings are provided to farmers in the district,” he said. 
 
 Deputy director of horticulture GO Poopathy told farmers that there are 4,000 saplings available at the Government Horticulture Farm at Poonchuthi, but as the subsidy on saplings is awaited farmers can either procure them without subsidy or wait till the scheme is announced. 
 
 At present, guava cultivation is spread over 500 hectares in Madurai district. Alanganallur and Palamedu are famous for guava cultivation and it is picking up momentum in Melur block too. Among horticulture crops in the district, mango tops the list followed by banana and guava, according to the horticulture department. However, guava requires at least like drip irrigation unlike mango which can withstand tough conditions like rain-fed farming. 
 
 Guava is being promoted largely after the   was introduced in 2005 – 2006. In the past two years the focus has been more on high density farming. Usually 270 guava trees can be raised in a hectare, but it can be raised to 1,100 trees by high density farming. “Under high density farming, guava farmers can claim subsidy of Rs 16,250 per hectare,” said Poopathy in a later interaction with TOI. 
 
 Horticulture officials said farmers prefer guava because the trees start to yield fruit in one-and-half years. Moreover, the ongoing drought has not taken a heavy toll on guava crops since most of these plantations were carried out with well irrigation. “With summer rains, the trees will thrive and drought impact will be lesser,” they said.
 
 
