It’s been just two years since he did Thana Theke Aschi. But to  , it feels like more than two decades. His fallout with 
  chief   cost him more than just a play. Putting his career at stake, he left the group and chose a radical sabbatical over a life of “humiliation”. Now that the actor has made a comeback with Chetana’s Magon Rajar Pala, directed by  , he is ready to let bygones be bygones. In a freewheeling chat, Kanchan opens up about the bromance that went terribly wrong. Excerpts:
 
 
 
 Does anyone want to leave the group he grew up in? I was disillusioned. I was heartbroken. This May, I will be completing 27 years in theatre. Yet, I would be treated as a backbencher in Swapnasandhani. I’ve always been the 7th B option in terms of the director’s preference. I felt I was no one. When I was growing up, I was awed by the ideology of some people. Later, I realised, they wouldn’t practise what they preached.
 
 
 Who else did I work with for so many years? I was told that to be part of theatre one has to be a good human being first. He bragged about being a man of his words. He turned out to be otherwise. I accepted his command like ‘gurubakya’. But there had to be a limit. You can accept one rejection. When it becomes chronic, it’s deliberate humiliation. In 27 years of working with Swapnasandhani, I had a problem once and I left for two years. But during that time I did not don any other team jersey (smiles).
 
 
 
 In theatre, there are a few people who dedicate their lives but are treated as inconsequential entities. They fill up the forms, physically go and pay the amusement tax, get permission from the corporation, book the hall, visit newspaper offices to submit the ad layouts and then come back and get under the skin of   or someone else. I abided by my master’s wish. And after the purpose was served, I became no one. That was not a great feeling.
 
 
 
 The call shows of Thana Theke Aschi suddenly stopped. No one cared to explain the reason to me. Before that, it had a super-successful stint of 29 shows including those at NSD, Nagpur and abroad. One morning, Kaushik decided he’d not play the character meant for him. This was after our show at Biswa Banga Sammelan in the US. Any sudden change in a successful play isn’t easy to cope with. A drawing-room drama, Thana Theke Aschi had five-six actors. So, the coordination was at stake. Also, the decision came a bit late in the day.
 
 
 
 I started realising it was not the same Swapnasandhani anymore. The environment wasn’t the same. New members had started ruling the group and they made unwarranted comments. I tried protesting, but one new member was indulged instead. I realised dissent was brewing. Yet, not many had the courage to protest. Then I realised there was no point of arguing, as Kaushik’s attitude too had changed. I would have appreciated if we had one direct conversation. But he chose not to clear the air. I left quietly. Being a small fry, I was not indispensable in the group. Now when I look back, I think I was there to bail people out of crises. If there were no sponsors, I was summoned. If a logistical issue had cropped up, I was needed. For the rest of the time, I was ignored. Also, voices were suppressed. Kaushik’s attitude was like, ‘I will not throw you out of the group but I will make sure to create such a situation that will compel you to leave’.
 
 
 
 
