PATNA: Police recovered bullet-riddled bodies of two Army personnel from a dwelling unit in a private building at Judges’ Colony under the Danapur police station area in Patna district on Monday.
 
  The deceased were identified as   of the first battalion of Bihar Regiment, who was posted in Arunahcal Pradesh, and  , also of the   posted as a clerk at the cantonment at Danapur.
  
  The bodies were recovered from the tenanted flat where Santosh and his family lived. At home on leave for almost a month, Santosh had sent his wife and 12-year-old son Ayush Singh to their native village Mashrakh in Saran two days back.
  
  Police said two bullet marks were spotted on Rinkesh’s chest while Santosh appeared to have committed suicide by shooting in his head by a rifle. Surprisingly, four more families live in the building, but they denied hearing the noise of the three rounds fired from a civilian rifle.
  
  The incident came to light after Rinkesh’s sister Pinki Kumari, who resides at R K Puram in Patna, reached the spot and entered into the flat after breaking open the door with the help of neighbours.
  
  According to Pinki’s father-in-law Jugeshwar Singh, Rinkesh’s parents in Bhopal received a phone call from the cantonment on Sunday that he had not reported to the unit. “Santosh and Rinkesh were good friends. We went to Santosh’s flat after getting a call from his parents. Landlord Rajendra Singh told us that Rinkesh was inside Santosh’s flat since Sunday morning,” he said.
  
  Since it was past midnight, they returned. “We again came back around 6am on Monday and entered the flat,” he added.
  
  Santosh's cousin Abhishek Singh, who also resides in the Judges’ Colony, said, “We don't know what exactly happened. Police informed us that both died almost 24 hours before the bodies were recovered.”
  
  City SP (west) Ravindra Kumar said preliminary investigations revealed Santosh was pressurising Rinkesh to marry one of his cousins. “Rinkesh was apparently shot while he was sitting on the sofa, which too has two bullet holes. The body was then dragged to the bathroom from where it was recovered by police,” Kumar said, adding police were investigating if the rifle was licensed or not.
  
  Rinkesh was a native of Dhobaha in Bhojpur district. He had joined the Army a year back while Santosh was serving the Army for more than a decade.
