NEW DELHI: A   footage and a pencil sketch made on the description given by a survivor were the main clues that led the police to  , the paedophile who used to come to Delhi to commit the crime. He would travel till Ghaziabad via train from Bilaspur in Uttar Pradesh and then walk to   in east Delhi to work at a tailoring shop in the Sunday market. He would look for targets along the way.

 However, Rastogi would leave after working for a few hours and start looking for girls outside schools. Police suspect that he suffers from split personality disorder.
 
 The description of the 10-year-old survivor matched with the CCTV footage from Shiv Mandir Marg area, from where he had abducted two girls. After conducting a door-to-door search, police found that he was working with a tailor in A-Block of New Ashok Nagar, who provided his location.
 
 During interrogation, Rastogi tried to blame the victim’s parents for trying to frame him. However, he confessed to his crime when confronted with the footages and the sketch. Police said he used to wear the same clothes before committing a crime as he felt it gave him the necessary prowess.
 
 The paedophile was arrested in his hometown Rudrapur, Uttarakhand for committing similar crimes and was out on bail. Another FIR had been lodged against him, but he had fled by then. Another case has been lodged against him in Bilaspur, Rampur district. Recently, the Ghaziabad police arrested him for theft and under the NDPS Act after he was found carrying drugs from Uttarakhand.
 
 Rastogi admitted to having sexually assaulted one child each time he travelled to Delhi since 2004. He often lingered around government primary schools around 2pm when classes would get over and look for an unaccompanied child. “Since he had lived in New Ashok Nagar from 1990-2004, he was aware of the area. He would start looking for girls when most parents would be out for work,” said DCP (east) Omvir Singh.
 
 The police have found many train tickets on Rastogi. He used to board the same train so he would reach Delhi by the time the schools closed around 2pm. 
 
 The accused had shifted to Rudrapur after his wife was paralysed while delivering their third child and was bedridden after an unsuccessful surgery. His family said he would leave home for work, but used to return empty-handed. He has two daughters, aged 15 and 12, and a son aged nine. He also has a 17-year-old daughter and a 14-year-old son from his first marriage. 
 
 Police will counsel his daughters to find out whether he had sexually assaulted them. He seldom used his phone to avoid being detected. His phone is being checked to see if he had recorded his crime. “We have decided to conduct his brain-mapping,” said a police officer.
 
 
