NAGPUR: It’s a different kind of battle between   over patenting cadre! The   (IFS) officials has slammed the move by   (IFS) cadre to be called as IFS and subsequent move that forest service be called as IFOS.

 The immediate conflict has been fuelled by   (MEA), which sent a request on December 1, 2016 to department of personnel and training (DoPT) that IFS has been used to denote Indian Foreign Service since 1946, much before the forest service was created in 1966, for which the acronym IFoS has traditionally been used.
 
 Sources said accordingly the DoPT has sought views from MoEFCC, which has asked the IFS Association to furnish comments. Forest cadre has contested the claims of MEA by arguing that Indian Foreign Service, the nomenclature itself appears very unconvincing.
 
 “How can a service be both Indian and foreign at the same time. All the other services appear to explicitly reflect an important aspect of Indian government,” said senior IFS officials.
 
 They told TOI, IAS refers to administration, IFS to forestry, IPS to policing, revenue to IRS etc. “IFS referring to ‘foreign’ appears incomplete and alien. This service handles foreign affairs or more precisely India’s external affairs. Key functioning of the cadre is a diplomatic one. Hence, with this logic the foreign service should be renamed as Indian Diplomatic Service (IDS) or Indian External Affairs Service (IEAS),” they argued.
 
 “The intermittent claim on patenting of IFS should be stopped once for all. Forest service aptly describes its significance and accepted in many statutes,” said another group of officers.
 
 When sought to know, APCCF & president of Maharashtra IFS Association Dilip Singh said, “We don’t understand if two services at national level have same acronym, what is the problem.”
 
 Singh said actually speaking, scientific forest management in India started in 1864 with the appointment of Sir Dietrich Brandis as the first Inspector General of Forests (IGF). Following his recommendations, trained foresters from Germany and France were appointed to manage the country's forests, and the   (IFS) was started in 1866.
 
 It soon became apparent that forestry training in German schools was not adequate and hence the Central Forest School was established in Dehradun in 1878 and forestry training in India commenced with introduction of first theoretical course in 1881.
 
 However, although training of rangers was done in India, the IFS probationers continued to be trained in France and Germany up to 1885. In 1920, the government decided to centralize the training of IFS probationers and established the   (FRI) at Dehradun.
 
 Singh said in 1935, however, the government decentralized responsibility for forestry to the provincial level which resulted in the abolition of training for the IFS as such. The IFS was revived in 1966 and hence it is not proper to say that forest service was created in 1966.
 
