When I step out from the confines of the studios and meet the public, their first reaction is, “but you are unlike Kanchana... you are so nice,” laughs  , recalling the funny moments she’s encountered due to her turnout in the serial Kulavadhu. Having been in the   industry for the past 12 years, Supreetha has essayed various characters. But the kind of the response she has been getting for   — one among the current popular serials — has been overwhelming, she tells us.
 “We celebrated 750 episodes recently and the how has been on air for three years now. Kanchana, my character is the negative protagonist in the serial and has been bringing me a lot of accolades. Besides, people also love to hate me. It’s a high indeed because when they say why are you being mean to Dhanya (another character in the serial) I know I’ve been successful at my job,” states Supreetha.
  In her other serial Durga, which is also on air, Supreetha once again plays a negative shade. So does she fear being typecast? “You become a consummate artiste when you portray the character to your best ability. Whether you play a lead role or a sweeper in the background, it is immaterial. I’ve never worried about being typecast,” concurs Supreetha, who played an old woman in a serial when she was just 25.
  She reminisces her journey which began in 2000 in   theatre with then boyfriend and now husband, actor Pramod Shetty. “It culminated in television in 2005. My first serial was for DD1 titled Soundarya. I still remember, when I broached the topic of doing serials to my father, he had given me a tight slap. Until then, I had managed to do theatre in secrecy because my father didn’t like the idea of performing in public. So, this was a huge jolt for him. Once I did Soundarya, my folks came around and from then on, there’s been no looking back,” smiles Supreetha.
  She’s done over 70 serials since her debut 12 years ago and they include memorable ones like Vatsalya, MounaRaga, Prerana, Lakshmi, Sukanya, Matte Baruvanu Chandira and Mangalya. “But the highlight of my career has been director   calling me up and saying that I should play a role in his serial and that he’d pen it in detail only if I agreed to be a part of it. It was for the serial   and it was a negative shade. I was extremely busy at the time and for my sake, Desai sir agreed to let me shoot for an hour whenever I could muster some time off from my other serials. It remains in my mind till date,” she says a tad nostalgically. 
  With Tara and Umashri as inspirations, Supreetha wants to emulate their kind of acting in her television pursuits. “I love their portrayals in the art cinema; it’s riveting. I tried that in my serial Pallavi Anu Pallavi a while ago. I played a woman who hardly speaks but conveys everything through her expressions. The kind of joy it brings is unfathomable,” she says.
