PATNA: Security agencies are investigating the claims of three arrested persons that they were asked by their   to engineer train accidents to avenge the Indian Army’s   in Pakistan on September 29 last year.
 
  Umashankar Patel, Motilal Paswan and Mukesh Yadav were arrested from Motihari in Bihar’s East Champaran district on Tuesday for their involvement in planting a cooker bomb on the   track at Ghorasahan in the district on October 1 last year. During interrogation, they also confessed their involvement in planting explosives that led to the derailment of Indore-Patna and   trains near Kanpur late last year.
  
  Police said the three saboteurs were working for Brijkishore Giri alias Baba Giri, a Nepal-based agent who would get funds from Pakistan’s Dubai-based ISI agent Shamsul Huda to engineer killings in India. Giri along with Mujahir Ansari and Ashish Singh Kurmi alias Sujeet was arrested in Nepal just prior to the three arrests in Bihar.
  
  “Umashankar told us that soon after the surgical strike, Giri asked his team to do something immediately to avenge it,” an intelligence officer told TOI on Thursday and added he personally believed Pakistan was capable of adopting such a strategy as it was not in a position to seek international intervention against India after it dismissed the claims of surgical strike as a lie.
  
  Sources said the trio arrested in Motihari was currently being grilled by the UP police’s IG (rail) and Bihar ATS (anti-terrorism squad) IG. Their interrogation has led to detention of two suspects in UP, who were also allegedly involved in the Kanpur accidents. “The photograph of one of the detained persons has been identified by Umashankar as the one who accompanied him up to the track in Kanpur,” a source said.
  
  Meanwhile, Nepal police also suspects the Kanpur derailments were engineered to avenge the surgical strike. “Ansari has told Nepal interrogators that they were asked by Huda over phone on September 29 to do something big,” Nepal’s police officer Arun Kumar Kushwaha, posted in the office of Bara district SP, told TOI over phone on Thursday.
  
  Kushwaha said Nepal police have launched a manhunt for a suspect who was the Giri gang’s member and used to lure youths to work for ISI.
