KOLKATA: The management of   had initially planned a phased renovation starting from the first floor and moving upwards before Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s demonetisation announcement on November 8 sent them back to the drawing board. A decision was then taken to shut down all the floors for four months.

 According to retailers, the management had informed them of the phased revamp almost a year ago. But the drop in sales across the retail sector countrywide following the scrapping of currency led to a quick change of plan. Though unprecedented, retailers agreed to cooperate as the time was perfect. 
 
 “A phased shutdown beginning with the first floor and moving upwards would have meant closure of stores at each level for three months. So, across the five levels at South City, the work would have continued for a year-and-a-half. During this period, footfalls would have dropped. On the other hand, a complete shutdown would compress the time period to four-six months. But that would mean relaunching the mall. It was a dilemma before but the demonetisation made the choice easy,” said   who has six apparel stores in the mall. 
 
  vice-president and mall chief operating officer Manmohan Bagri says demonetisation did not affect sales at the mall to the level it did at some markets because a large section of   customers use plastic money. “It nevertheless provided an opportunity as market sentiment has slumped and it will take a while to revive. It was felt that instead of prolonging the refurbishment and revamp by doing it in a phased manner, it was best to do it all at one go,” he explained. 
 
 In 2008, too, the management had reached out to retailers and announced a moratorium on rentals following the economic downturn. Even when a decision was taken post demonetisation to shut the mall in early January, the management changed it to February after retailers asked for time to clear the stocks. 
 
 For retailers, the big challenge now is to clear the store of stocks within the next fortnight to meet the February 1 shutdown deadline. With each store holding stock worth Rs 40 lakh, goods worth Rs 50 crore has to be liquidated or transported to warehouses. While the end-of-season sale is currently underway, a bigger stock clearance sale is expected around Republic Day. 
 
 The mall revamp had become essential since nine years of continuous operations has led to wear-out of facilities. The facility has recorded over 200 million footfall since it opened. But of late, its popularity had been waning. “Quest raised the bar. South City Mall retained the advantage of size but it looked jaded. Everyone agreed an upgrade was necessary,” said Marda. 
 
 Bagri is confident the refreshed mall will excite customers. “The touch and feel will be refreshingly different. The new artificial ceiling in corridors with LED lights will add more zest. We are working on the facade and have not decided if that will be changed,” said Bagri. 
 
 
