There could be a ban on using animals and exotic birds in circuses, even a few tricks might have gone stale, but circuses in   still continue to hold its sway on the audience. Reason? The influx of foreign artistes, who have come all the way from Mongolia,  , Nigeria, Armenia and other parts of the world to perform. From acrobats, ring acts, pole tricks to hoop diving — these artistes add to the glam quotient with their stylised stunts.

 Earlier, the local circus companies would have a number of Indian performers, raising families in the circus itself. But now, the ritual of marrying within the circus community is almost redundant. 
 
 
  
 
 In a bid to rescue the circus owners, the   with the help of the   devised a plan, wherein a number of certified artistes were allowed to be brought to India on contract basis. According to industry experts, these talented men and women are responsible for turning the shows housefull on weekends.
 
 Sanjiban Ghoshal, manager,  , said, “We have artistes from Ethiopia, Mongolia and Indonesia. The name of several countries on the posters grab eyeballs and our audience has increased by 50% now.”
 
 Sanu, manager of Empire Circus, almost echoed Ghoshal’s sentiments. He said, “Russian men and women are beautiful, they are fit and their style is also different from the local artistes. Naturally, they are the crowd pullers.”
 
  
 
 
 
 
 “In order to book the best of artistes under contract, we often have to travel to various countries. There, we watch their shows and shortlist the candidates. Then the main bidding happens, as in the base price of each artiste is decided. The circus owners in India are then asked how much they are willing to pay. All this happens online to maintain transparency. The base price, contract period, allowances to be paid by the company — everything is mentioned in the contract,” explained Md Nadim, who has been selecting foreign artistes for Ajanta and Kohinoor Circus for the last few years.
 
 While Nadim travels to different countries to fetch the best talent, Md Samshad, who has been working as an agent for Famous Circus and eight other circuses in the country, revealed that he keeps a strict vigil online to select artistes. “I watch all the videos sent by the performers and then select them accordingly. Experienced people are paid higher than the newcomers,” he said.
 
  
 
 
  
 
 The lifestyles of the foreign artistes in Kolkata isn’t the same. When enquired about it, Md Nadim told us, “We provide apartments for the foreign artistes. They don’t stay in tents. They save all the money they get as salaries. Their food and travel allowances are paid separately. During their free time, these artistes would roam around the city buying health foods, supplements and fruits. They also prefer to spend a lot of time in the gym.”
 
 Interestingly, the artistes from Kenya, who are presently working at Famous Circus, wanted to stay in the tents. Md Samshad added, “They are very strong as a community. So, this group of five men from   expressed their willingness to stay back at the tents with other artistes. Actually, that’s hassle-free for us too. And they can practice and coordinate with others easily.”
 
 However, when we asked Sanu, the manager at the Empire Circus, if these artistes ever complain about anything, he promptly replied, “Nothing, but the food. We have two men and one woman from Armenia with us. They are very picky about what they eat. They like only boiled veggies and chicken.”
 
 During our interaction with Manucharyan Hasmik, a ring dancer and gymnast from Armenia, she said she is happy with the management and is having fun in the city. 
 
 
 
 
  While circus companies are mostly tight-lipped about the remuneration of foreign artistes, we can easily infer that they are paid higher than their Indian colleagues. “I can’t tell you the exact amount. But yes, they get at least triple the amount paid to the Indian artistes,” said Sanjiban Ghoshal.
 
 Happy, manager of Famous Circus, said, “The payment of an artiste is based on the number of shows he/she does. The highest amount paid for a day is not more than `4,000.”
 
 
