Azamgarh/Lucknow: Days ahead of the March 4 polling, Azamgarh has turned into that symbolic Samajwadi fortress the   and BSP will do anything to breach. And aware of the challenges, the   is leaving nothing to chance with top leaders going full throttle with the poll campaign even as the party patriarch   Singh Yadav – who is also the sitting MP from Azamgarh -- remains conspicuous by his absence.

 Chief minister Akhilesh Yadav is working overtime to fill in for the senior samajwadi’s absence. A do-or-die district for the SP – they won nine out of 10 seats in 2012—Akhilesh held seven back-to-back rallies in Azamgarh on February 28. On March 2, the last day of campaigning, ‘Badi Bahu’ -- Kannauj MP Dimple Yadav -- will address three campaign rallies in her father-in-law’s parliamentary constituency, seeking votes in exchange of her overdue “muh dikhai”. Together, members of the family, including Badaun MP Dharmendra Yadav, will have done more than 15 rallies in the past 10 days before polls.
 
 In several pockets of the VIP district that SP patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav wrested in 2014 by a small margin, there appears to be a tactical shift of BJP votes to Mayawati’s Bahujan Samaj Party in areas where SP appears to be in the lead, and where the BJP is trailing on third spot.
 
 In Nizamabad, the famous black pottery producing area of Azamgarh, Mahesh, a BJP supporter, said the elections are getting increasingly polarised. “This time, elections are too close a call. Muslims and Yadavs are supporting the SP. If we see the SP taking a lead, to stop them from winning, we will transfer our votes to the BSP. We have done this in the past too,” he said.
 
 If the BSP is raring to upset the SP applecart, BJP strongman Ramakant Yadav, whose son Arun is debuting from the Phoolpur Pawai seat in Azamgarh is also looking to cause an upset to the ruling SP. Locals, though, have varying opinions about SP’s chances. “Ramakant Yadav is unhappy because he wanted tickets for more family members but was denied. Now, he has concentrated his energies on his son winning the seat. It’s unlikely he will do much for the BJP outside of Pawai,” said Dharmesh Prajapati, a shop owner.
 
 Despite the aggressive proxy campaigning for MSY, the SP seems poised for an edge-of-the-seat poll in the VIP district. Dharmesh Prajapati, an artisan involved in the famous Nizamabad black pottery work, said, “This time, it’s a triangular fight and it’s really difficult to say which way polls will swing. One way or the other, ours is a community that has seen little help from Centre or the state.”
 
 Before the battle for control over the party broke out within the Yadav clan, the Samajwadi Party had planned to kickstart its election campaign with a mega rally in Azamgarh that was to be chaired by Mulayam and the top leadership of the party. The party formally announced that the rally will be held on October 7 but the event was cancelled as by rumblings within the SP grew louder. With Akhilesh finally replacing Mulayam as SP chief, the loyalties of the party candidates understandably shifted. Party sources confirmed none of the candidates have approached Mulayam to address a public meeting in their constituency.
 
 The SP leaders are aware Mulayam’s absence from his parliamentary constituency is noticeable and they have made it a point to talk of the SP patriarch’s love for Azamgarh at their public meetings and otherwise as well. “We are contesting the elections with the blessings of Netaji (Mulayam),” says SP founder’s Dharmendra Yadav who has held a series of road shows and public meetings in Mubarakpur with SP’s Maharshtra chief Abu Azmi.
 
 
