LUCKNOW: The inquiry committee formed by the   to look into complaints of irregularities in faculty appointments at   Institute of Development Studies ( ), an autonomous institute financially supported by Indian Council of Social Science Research (ICSSR), has submitted its report to the chairman of the board of governors of the institute.

 The committee, comprising ICSSR director (regional institutes and centres) GS Saun, and a Jawaharlal Nehru University professor, visited the institute and examined relevant records. The inquiry report is likely to be tabled in a meeting of the board of governors (BOG) on September 26.
 
 The two complainants, Utkarsh Kumar Sinha and Yogesh Bandhu, in their letter to the HRD ministry and PMO alleged several violations, including improper constitution of the selection committee, appointment of unqualified candidates, and crass favouritism in serious violation of rules and regulations of   (UGC).
 
 GIDS director   told TOI, “The inquiry report only points out procedural deficiencies and doesn’t mention any serious violation of rules. Once the BOG meet, we will reply to ICSSR and take follow up action.” He insisted that the report doesn’t show any favouritism or violation of rules.
 
 Replying to Bandhu’s complaint, Saun said the inquiry committee has covered all issues and submitted its report to ICSSR. “The report has been sent to the GIDS chairman and a reply is awaited. Once a response is received, a detailed reply on the irregularities pointed out by you shall be sent by ICSSR,” said Saun’s letter, a copy of which is with TOI.
 
 In October 2016, Sinha had filed an RTI seeking responses from GIDS on nine issues ranging from constitution of the selection committee, reservation rules for faculty appointment, formula for assessing academic record, selection procedure, and Academic Performance Index (API) score card of the faculty interviews held.
 
 After getting a reply, Sinha wrote to HRD minister Prakash Javadekar alleging irregularities in the faculty appointment process. On June 16, Bandhu wrote to the PMO with similar allegations.
 
 GIDS had advertised for recruitment of assistant, associate professors and professors on June 16, 2016. Interviews were held on August 28-29, 2016 and approved by the BOG on August 30.
 
 The complainants alleged that on the five positions of professors, the institute had advertised for two posts, one of general category and the other of OBC. UGC reservation rules state that out of five positions, three should be general and one each reserved for OBC and SC. Despite three general posts already being filled, the advertisement had mentioned one more general post, thereby violating UGC rules.
 
 The rulebook says that there should be three experts from the related subjects in the selection committee. The complainants alleged that for the selections of associate professor in sociology and management subjects, no subject experts were there for the interviews. The most glaring allegation levelled against the institute’s director was recommending an associate professor who was facing serious plagiarism charges for promotion.
 
 
