AHMEDABAD: Rising urban pressures are eating into the city’s lungs. Issues of air pollution, noise pollution, urban heat islands and associated health risks and less access to green spaces for residents are rising by the square in Ahmedabad. A research by Faculty of Planning, Centre for   ( ) has claimed that green spaces can promote overall well-being of citizens and also prove to be a sustainable option to building expensive urban projects for solving issues of urbanization.

 The study chose Manekbaug Lok Van of Ambawadi Ward which was designated as an ‘urban forest’. The area of the park is 8,548 sq m out of which 6,043 sq m is covered with a good number of trees. The activities carried out in the park are laughing club, project display, an active library, yoga and meditation sessions,   (RSS) activities and students’ educational visits to the forest.
 
 The second was   located in Satellite which has been leased out to a private firm. While the third was the Bodakdev park, developed in 2007, and which is spread over 3.4 hectares with a lawn, lake, 500 m walking track, sitting area and play area for children.
 
 The researcher, Nikita Malviya claims that in the visitor’s survey study in terms of park use more women, 62% were seen in Manekbaug garden, while in Bodakdev and Sandipani parks there were more men , 56% and 60% respectively. 
 
 Almost 52 % of the visitors were in the age group of 25 to 54 years, while a good chunk of close to 19% were between 15 to 24 years. 
 
 In case of Manekbaug garden, the distance of the green space from the vistors home was not an issue. Nearly 58% visitors who came to the garden came from a distance of up to 1 km. In terms on perception of health benefit 25.3% felt it was there. About 74.7% of the users across all the parks claimed that they felt physically and mentally refreshed. About 96% users in Manekbaug, 80% in Bodakdev and 96% in Sandipani parks perceived that the air quality inside the parks was better than outside.
 
 
