Chandigarh: If people make up a city, performances by artistses in open public spaces were the heartbeat of Chandigarh in the 1970s and 1980s. This heartbeat, however, was stopped by the city’s MC a long time ago, feels eminent theatre personality G S Channi.

 When Chandigarh was in its nascent stages, master architect Le Corbusier had designed open spaces in the city, including at UNESCO world heritage site Capitol Complex, with an intent to have them for public performances. However, these spaces are not free for artistes to perform anymore. “That is why it is time to reclaim public spaces,” says Channi, while giving his opinion on whether it is time to move beyond Corbusier or not. 
 
 When Channi used to perform in the Sector 17 Plaza in the 1970s, he says such performances required no permission and only people’s participation. “I have performed in the Sector 17 Plaza a number of times since 1976, but now the corporation wants Rs 25,000 for a half-an-hour show. We have made spaces for performances in gardens, including Shanti Van, Rose Garden, Hibiscus Garden and there is an arena built in the Capitol Complex for the performances to take place,” says Channi. 
 
 Since the city, primarily an art-loving city, has the culture of free theatre, he puts forward the argument that the permissions to perform should have been mandatory if they were making money out of such performances, but that was not the case. 
 
 Channi said the main concern was reclaiming public spaces, but this was now being appropriated by the administration. One way to reclaim public spaces, Channi suggested, was by doing “invisible theatre” where artistes perform and then public takes over. 
 
 “It is our fundamental right to perform in these open spaces without any permission; it is high time we reclaim our open spaces,” said Channi. He objected to restrictions put on the Sector 17 Plaza where it is not allowed for people to gather and campaign or rally. “Sector 17 was the place where people used to come to rallies to express themselves, but now the rallies are allowed in Sector 25 near Shamshan Ghat. Why are they doing this,” said Channi. 
 
 BOX: Open spaces that can be reclaimed
 
 Sector 17 plaza 
 
 Shanti Kunj
 
 Leisure Valley 
 
 Bougainvillea 
 
 Hibiscus Garden
 
 
