FAIZABAD/AMBEDKARNAGAR: The sprawling   (Garden of roses) housing the mausoleum of  , has been one of the main tourist attractions in Faizabad. Centred in the middle of the city, the 18th century structure, however, has another history - it once happened to be one of the many crucibles in the discreet caste laboratory of Dalit leader  , long before he went on to form the political behemoth called Bahujan Samaj Party. 

 "It was sometimes in mid-1970s. Saheb (Kanshi Ram), who was still in his formative years as a Dalit leader used to call us to Gulab Bari to discuss issues concerning people of the lower caste and how they can be grouped socio-politically to overthrow the might of the existing political dispensation," recalled Ram Karan, a former banker and old time associate of Kanshi Ram.
 
 The Dalit amalgamation experiment of Kanshi Ram began on December 6, 1978 and he went on to form a semi-political entity, Backward and Minority Community Employee Federation (BAMCEF). The members of the group, comprising essentially the educated from the lower caste community, were turned into a cadre before being sent into Dalit dominated hamlets. "We would meet the people of lower castes in groups and tell them about their constitutional rights," Ram Karan said.
 
 Exactly three years later, on December 6, 1981, BAMCEF transformed into another organisation called Dalit Shoshit Samaj Sanghasrh Samiti (DS-4). The role of its members remained more or less the same until April 14, 1984 when Kanshi Ram eventually founded the BSP.
 
 The party, however, made its presence felt first time in 1989 assembly elections when it won 13 seats. Though party floundered marginally in 1991, it rose significantly in 1993 when it won 67 seats while contesting in alliance with the  . It was this year Kanshi Ram's caste lab bore fruit and his party won five out of 10 assembly seats in Faizabad. The five seats were actually in present day Ambedkarnagar which was carved out of Faizabad by then CM Mayawati on September 29, 1995.
 
 The manifestation of the experiment initiated by Kanshi Ram appears to hold ground in this region. Deep inside Katharia, a Dalit dominated village in Akbarpur constituency of Ambedkarnagar, 65-year-old Laxman remembers his as a "clean-shaven, tall man" who would speak fearlessly about Dalit rights. "Humko bahut accha lagta tha unko sun ke...,'' he recalled.
 
 "Humko pataa nahi...par yahan to sab Behenji (Mayawati) ke supporter hain,'' said Akhilesh Kumar, a second-year student of BSc and a first-time voter. The amalgamation of Dalits into one social group, however, had its own side effect. "Agar hum kisi aur ko vote de bhi dete hain to koi yaqeen nahi karta,'' said Lalman, a Dalit who works as a daily wage labourer.
 
 Dalit writer and former BAMCEF member R D Anand said Kanshi Ram actually worked on a theory of creating a magnet that could attract other spread out particles. The magnet in this case were Dalits, while the other backward castes, who often get divided between various political parties became the particles. "After all, he (Kanshiram) was a scientist,'' said Anand. Ambedkarnagar, according to the census, has 25% population of Dalits, while OBCs, essentially non-Yadav most backward castes like Rajbhar, Dhobi and Nai, account for another 40%.
 
 The magnet theory of Kanshiram appears to work, at least in Kamapur village in the district. "Ab yeh to BSP ka gadh hai (this is a fort of BSP),'' said Barsati Ram, who comes from the Rajbhar (MBC) community.
 
 The fort, however, got breached when BSP withdrew its support from SP to shake hands with   in 1995. In the ensuing 1996 assembly elections, BSP lost Ambedkarnagar's Jalalpur seat to BJP and Jahangirganj reserved seat to SP. Kanshi Ram went back to the drawing board and in 2002 sent Mayawati to contest from Jahangirganj seat, which she won.
 
 In 2007, a year after Kanshiram died, BSP, now under complete control of Mayawati and driven by her social engineering experiment, swept all five seats in Ambedkarnagar. Though Mayawati did not contest, her seat Jahangirganj, was won by Tribhuwan Dutt.
 
 The coming of Akhilesh Yadav as SP's new face in 2012, however, swept BSP completely out of this erstwhile Kanshiram lab. This time, Mayawati has placed her bet not only Dalits and MBC, but also on Muslims and upper caste as part of her 'Sarvajan' appeasement theory. However, it didn't work.
 
 
