GURUGRAM: After TOI reported the plight of the students of   last Sunday, Badshapur MLA Rao Narbir Singh had promised prompt action, within two days. 

 The cabinet minister in Manohar Lal Khattar’s government did keep his words. Gurgaon district education officer Ram Kumar Phalaswal said that a day after the TOI report, minister Rao Narbir and additional chief secretary P K Das had called him, and that he had assured to release funds to improve the condition of the school as early as possible.
 
 “We’ve started necessary repair work,” said Phalaswal. “The children are no longer attending classes in the corridors. The government has taken notice of the condition of the school. We’re speeding up the process of getting everything in place as soon as we can.”
 
 According to Phalaswal, the school’s water supply was restored and two of the three rooms, in which the block education office had stored its old, broken furniture, have been vacated.
 
 “Two rooms have been vacated. All students have been shifted to the classrooms,” he said. “I had asked the principal to make sure the third room is also vacated soon. The rooms were taken over by the block education office, as the latter was damaged, so they had to move all their stuff here.”
 
 Phalaswal said they have also initiated the process of making the restroom accessible. “The school will be cleaning the sewer line, as well as the restroom. It was dirty because of unavailability of water. The school did not have any funds to take care of basic amenities. But now, both additional chief secretary P K Das and minister Rao Narbir Singh have assured us that they will do everything needful to ensure the school gets back in good shape,” said Phalaswal.
 
 When TOI visited the school premises again on Thursday, it looked distinctly cleaner. Classrooms were locked as there were no students at the time. Water supply had returned to the restrooms, though it was yet to be fixed. The floors were still dirty, with dog excreta and flies all over the place. 
 
