 I am a 50-year-old man and have been married for 18 years. My wife is in her 40s and has a very high libido. For the last two to three years, I have not been able to satisfy her in bed. We even consulted a doctor but nothing worked out. She started getting frustrated and I felt guilty for that.

  Last year, I gave her the permission to date someone else and satisfy her sexual needs. She found a 33-year-old guy on Facebook within three months and started dating him. They even went for a vacation together. But now, I have started to doubt my decision. Does she still love me? She seems to be getting emotionally connected with the guy and that is making me insecure. Did I make a wrong decision? Please advice.
 
 
 
  It is definitely a difficult situation to be in– on one hand to allow your spouse to have sexual relationship outside your marriage which in itself may have been difficult for you. And on the other hand, having to worry about where your relationship is heading due to that can cause a lot of stress and internal conflict. Thus, it is great that you are seeking help.
 
  The concept of marriages and relationships is going through a lot of changes today. From being intolerant about separating from your spouse in the past, our society has seen understanding and tolerance amongst spouses where we have couples who find separate partners while staying together. Clearly relationships are seeking new norms– something that can make them last, moving away from the past moral standards. These lines are blurring. And bringing about different versions of how a modern family looks like.
 
  Given that you mentioned you have consulted doctors too and have not been able to resolve it, it seems to me that due to the differences, in age and also the difference in libidinal needs, you permitted a solution which sounded convenient. It would fulfil and satisfy your wife’s sexual needs and at the same time keep your marriage going.
 
  While this may seem to be a magnanimous love for your wife, going beyond the usual possession- oriented experience, becoming sensitive to her needs and attempting to offer her chance to fulfilment and satisfaction! However, it may well be motivated out of fear and insecurities of losing her. That coupled with feelings of inadequacies that one often faces when they are unable to accept a decline in their libido and how that plays out on them emotionally. These may have led you to step into a territory, which others may judge to be a wrong way of going through a relationship.
 
  In your case, what seemed like a convenient solution at first, is causing a sense of uncertainty now. You can see that your wife is happy, probably exceeding your expectations of her potential to be happy, which caused you to feel the uncertainty of the future and the fear of losing her. This must be making you wonder if you are ready to fully let go of the traditional concept of loving someone.
 
  It is important to understand how this can affect your relationship. Bringing in a third is not always easy. It eventually impacts your equation, from you being the loved and preferred partner at first, with wife having only sexual interest for the other. Over a period of time, it starts changing, with   not being a part of your relationship. She may yet love you, but the bond may become different, as her needs from you are different now. Her feelings of love for you may now be that of a child to a parent or as a friend. And she may learn to love someone else as a partner.
 
  It is difficult to engage in sex without developing any feelings. Physical contact or touch usually leads to emotional bonds and is not something most can control. Thus, there is always a risk that your wife could fall in love with the one with whom she had permission to sleep with.
 
  Apart from that, several other emotions also come into play between you and your wife- guilt, shame and regret which brings a distance between the two of you. Permission or not, infidelity comes with the crushing shame of not staying true to your partner. It is possible for her to experience guilt and shame regarding what this does to her own self-identity, and she may end up resenting you for giving her the allowance to cheat and making her feel this way.
 
  What may seem like a feeling of gratitude may sometime start out as a feeling of horror, that her husband tolerates this without any feelings of jealousy. This takes away her feeling of connection and belongingness she once felt with you, and may redirect it towards the new partner.
 
  However, there are some couples in the modern world who can tolerate and manage open relationships with a different level of maturity, but that requires a different outlook and motivation altogether.
 
 Giving permission to bring a third person in, even if it just for sexual needs, is unlikely to take away most of the negative feelings, impending threats and strains from your relationship. I would suggest reflecting on it, to see if the negative feeling persists. If so, you might want to discuss it with your wife and modify the situation. You can also seek professional help to work this out.
 
 Involving someone else into a marriage can definitely be a slippery slope, and it’s never going to be an easy road.
 
 
 
 Want expert advice for your relationship? Send us an email at expertadvice.toi@gmail.com
 
 
