JAIPUR: Rajasthan Skill and Livelihoods Development Corporation (RSLDC) has introduced training modules on Phad paintings, Purohitya Prashikshan, Heritage Mistri, Therapeutic Spa and Ornamental Fisheries to mark the World Youth Skills Day on Saturday.

 These courses have been designed for youths keeping its high employability intending to create jobs in areas which have been ignored so far. Besides, a list of new programs has been introduced for Madarsaa drop outs and transgenders like Urdu journalism, translators, legal advisor etc. 
 
 The RSLDC has signed MOUs with different agencies to execute these courses. The Sanskrit Academy has been roped in for the course on Purohitya Prashikshan and Phad Paintings. “The Purohitya Prashikshan program related to Solah Sanskars, Mantra Uccharans, Archan Poojas, Making of Pooja Samgari, understanding the Sanskrit literature. Besides providing training in writing and speaking fluent and correct Sanskrit, the youth will also be trained in different economic activities related to temples,” said Shastri Koslendradas, advisor to the Sanskrit Academy which will also provide logistics for Phad paintings.
 
 The Phad paintings are exclusive to Rajasthan. The painting is done on a long piece of cloth narrating a scene. “Such valuable art has lost it sheen over the years. The reason it has been incorporated is to revise the old art and traditions. Students will get the chance to learn the art from the trained artist,” said Krishna Kunal, commissioner, RSLDC.
 
 The Junior Heritage Mistry the individuals are trained on indigenous building practices, traditional occupational structures, knowledge systems, arts, crafts as well as the build fabric that renders identity to a place. “The science behind old structures have been disappeared. Time has come to revive them before it is lost forever," said Kunal. 
 
 These courses will start soon at different skill centers. The first batch will start from Bikaner. Students have been advised to contact their local skill centers for notifications. The RSLDC will not only provide the training but also the jobs through different job fairs. 
 
 The   programmes to pass or drop out students of madrassa is aimed at making madrassa students employable. Most of the madrassas are running in absence of even basic resources leaving students mastered the skills like fluency in three languages-Urdu, Arabic and Persian (in some cases). The jobs for these students are very limited. Either, they go for Imamat (religious duties in the mosque) or go for some vocational training for jobs.
 
