LUCKNOW: A poster in chaste Hindi peddling a ‘spoken English’ course at the entrance of   in Karhal tehsil of Mainpuri district presents an interesting contrast. This place is closely associated with SP patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav, whose dislike for anything English is legendary.

  Mulayam studied here from classes VI to XII and later served as a teacher on this campus, 6km from his village   in Etawah district. 
 
 “He taught Hindi and political science,” recalls his grandnephew Tej Pratap “and quit only in 1977 after becoming a minister for the second time”.
 
  Propagation of spoken English at the institution all but owned by Mulayam—he is reverentially referred to as Dhartiputra in these parts—not only symbolises a fascinating dichotomy but also reflects the sign of the times and winds of change blowing through Saifai.
 “Samay badal raha hai (times are changing),” says Ramveer Chaudhary, 70, standing on the main square of this village of 7,000, which resembles a planned township. 
 
 “Hasn’t his own party undergone a generational shift? And hasn’t the SP forged an alliance with the Congress? Netaji’s entire life was devoted to opposing it,” Chaudhary says.
 
 Saifai is the nerve centre of UP’s ruling party. An upheaval in the state’s first family had a cascading effect on people here who lived under the shadow of gloom and fear for four months. After all, they look up to Mulayam’s family, in grief and in celebration. So, when the family’s well-defined order was in disarray recently, they prayed tirelessly for its well-being. 
 
 Now that CM   has taken over command and the family turf war appears to have subsided, is Saifai at peace? 
 
 “The new generation is with Akhilesh. His development work and youth-oriented schemes have attracted Saifai’s next generation, like the rest of the state. There’s been astronomical development work here in five years,” says Manish Chauhan, a computer teacher from Etawah. “Old-timers are with Mulayam, they have accepted the change as Akhilesh is Netaji’s son,” he adds.
 
  Netaji Mulayam Singh Yadav is a towering figure here. Others of his family have flourished under his shadow. At  , principal Capt YN Dubey’s office has just one photograph on the wall—that of its most famous pupil. An auditorium where students of this co-educational institution perform is named after him. Just outside the college, a giant gateway is named after Mulayam’s father Sughar Singh.
 The 6km road from here to his Saifai house is plastered with signs and symbols that display the presence of the Yadav family. Every family member has a house here, Mulayam’s ‘complex’ being the hub. For years, it’s been the destination for the extended family on special occasions: Holi, Diwali, the Saifai Mahotsava or even voting day, when family gatherings would take the shape of a grand celebration.
 
 This non-descript village became one of the most famous rural units of the country only after Mulayam became the chief minister for the first time in 1989. The metamorphosis took place a decade later, particularly after Mulayam’s second tenure of 2003-2007. 
 
 So, to say in Saifai that ‘being Mulayam’s son has its advantages’ is an understatement. “We are happy Netaji’s son has inherited his  . He is growing old and it had to happen someday,” says Sumer Yadav of Etawah, adding: “If SP wins, nobody can challenge Akhilesh.”
 
 “Shivpal (Mulayam’s brother) frequents the village and helps local people get their work done—be it a government contract or college admission. He too has his followers. But, when it comes to choosing between him and Mulayam’s son, nobody in Saifai can say no to Akhilesh, I believe. They are ready to give him a chance, at least till the elections,” says Rajiv Chauhan, who runs an NGO in Etawah.
 
 This is what Akhilesh wanted from his father before the family battle went to the EC. Three months to run the party and prove his mettle in the elections.
 
