Chandigarh: The Punjab and Haryana high court on Thursday ordered to extend the deployment of paramilitary forces in Patiala till September 26. “In view of the wider interest, more particularly about the public at large, the area where the assembly is to take place, we deem it appropriate to extend the period of paramilitary forces till Sept 26,” ordered the HC while accepting Punjab’s plea to extend the deployment of security forces.

 The HC passed these orders after hearing Punjab advocate general (AG) Atul Nanda, who had informed the court that the paramilitary forces were already present in the state till September 20 and their deployment could be extended in view of the farmers’ protest.
 
 Directions were passed by the division bench comprising Justice Ajay Kumar Mittal and Justice Amit Rawal in the wake of a petition filed by Mohit Kapoor, a Patiala-based lawyer. The petitioner alleged that there was a serious threat to law and order situation in Patiala as a large mob of farmers, approximately about 1-2 lakh, had threatened to launch ‘jail bharo’ (court arrest) agitation and were expected to assemble in the city on September 22 to press for their demands.
 
 Farmers’ bodies have threatened to assemble outside Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh’s private residence in Patiala from Friday as part of their planned five-day protest.
 
 During the hearing of the case, AG, Punjab pointed out that 7.5-acre place has been earmarked in Sher Majra Dana Mandi, which is around 5km away from Patiala city, for holding protest where even the electricity connection has been provided.
 
 Farmers’ body, however, raised an objection that the area earmarked for protest was in the wilderness and it was meaningless to protest in such an area.
 
 On this, the HC directed that the farmers’ body can meet the deputy commissioner (DC), Patiala for alternative site, may be on the outskirts of Patiala city, for holding their protest. “It is directed that in case any application is moved for alternative site by the representatives of farmers’ body, the same shall be decided today itself”, observed the bench.
 
 The counsels appearing for the protesting farmers bodies assured the high court that there would be no untoward incident in Patiala and there would be complete peace in case the agitation was allowed to be held in the city.
 
 During the hearing of the case, counsels appearing for farmers’ bodies, R S Bains and H P S Ishar submitted that there was a wider issue involved for which agitation was being carried out. They said number of farmers had already died for non-waiver of loans and other difficulties being faced by them. On this, the HC observed that these issues would be considered in this Public Interest Litigation on the next date of hearing. The case has been adjourned for September 25 for further hearing.
 
 
