Pause and take a look at your daily beauty ritual. Time to bring it back on track if the don’ts overpower the dos 

 It’s natural to pick a bad habit or two even when it comes to beauty. But not many of us are aware of these. Says Narcis Jordan, a beauty professional, “Poor hygiene could lead to severe skin and hair infections. Following a beauty routine according to your skin and hair type is not enough, you need to make sure that you are doing it the proper and healthy way.” There’s more...
 
 
 
 Beauty experts have often spoken about the harmful effects of sleeping with make-up on. Nevertheless, many still forget to cleanse their face before going off to bed. No matter how tired you are, make sure to remove each and every trace of make-up before you retire for the night. It can clog your pores and can cause acne breakouts. It can also make your skin look dull due to the product buildup.
 
  Make-up professional Meghna Butani says, “Use a make-up remover to clean your face thoroughly, before washing it off with water and cleanser. You can use unscented baby wipes to remove your eye make-up. Make sure to apply night cream after that.”
 
 
 
 A common mistake that most women make, consciously or unconsciously, is to keep touching their face throughout the day. Touching your face consistently can lead to a buildup of dirt and oil from your fingertips to your face; this will can clog your pores and cause breakouts.
 
 “Sanitise your hands if you’ve been outdoors or to the washroom before you touch your face. Further, you need to make a conscious effort to remember that touching your face too often can lead to a buildup of dirt on your face,” adds Jordan.
 
 
 
 Make-up expires with time. Once opened, make-up products become susceptible to contamination and can also collect bacteria. Using old make-up items can cause blemishes and also lead to skin irritations.
 
 Always remember to throw away eye and face make-up products like mascara, kajal, foundation and compact which have been used for more than six months.
 
 
 
 Dermatologist Dr Aparna Santhanam says, “You might not have enough time to visit the salon, but plucking away uneven or extra hair with tweezers could be harmful for your facial skin. Do you know that too much tweezing of your eyebrows can completely change the look of your face? For example, if you have thin eyebrows and keep plucking it, it can make your face look larger and older than you actually are.”
 
  If you feel that you have unwanted hair around your eyebrows, stick to just plucking one or two. Further use a thin comb to shape your eyebrows and use a little bit of gel to shape them properly.
 
 
 
 More often than not, one forgets to clean the make-up brushes on a daily basis. Think about all the surfaces your make-up brush comes in contact with — bathroom countertops, inside of your make-up bag etc. They breed bacteria, if you do not clean them properly. They will irritate your skin and also cause itching and burning eyes. Apart from this, using dirty brushes may also impact the look of your make-up. The application of your foundation or compact will not be smooth as it’s supposed to be.
 
  Clean your brush at least once a week. Wash them with water and shampoo and lay them flat to dry out in the sun. However, you must never blow-dry these brushes, else they might stay damp. 
 
