It’s been 10 years since a team of young, largely unknown Indian cricketers, led by a long-haired boy from Ranchi, went to South Africa and shocked everyone by winning the World Cup in a format the world was just getting used to. On September 24, 2007,   and his boys beat Pakistan in the finals of the   to win India’s first   world title in 24 years. While men like  ,   and   were feted for their performances in the campaign, there was one name whose contribution was largely forgotten. Haryana’s all-rounder   bowled the all-important last over in the final against Pakistan and when all seemed lost, the medium pacer dismissed   to win the game and the cup for India. On the 10th anniversary of the win, in an exclusive chat with Delhi Times, Joginder recalls the moment, the game, and how it changed his life.

 The World T20 was Dhoni’s first big outing as India’s captain and he was yet to earn the moniker of Captain Cool. But even then, he surprised many with some unconventional decisions, most notably giving Joginder the last over of the final despite having Harbhajan in the side. Joginder recalls, “A lot of people were surprised that Mahi gave the ball to me but I was actually waiting for it. Earlier also, Mahi and I had played together in the domestic circuit lots of times and he knew I could bowl well in the death overs. The choice was between me and Harbhajan. I’m glad Mahi showed faith in me because I was confident I would win it for India.”
 
  
  Joginder says he is glad he was able to live up to Dhoni's expectations in that final over
 
 Joginder recalls that his delivery that dismissed Misbah ul Haq and won the tournament for India was ad-libbed. He tells us, “My plan was to bowl outside off, and after the first ball swung, I gained confidence. Jab ball swing hoti hai, mujhe apne upar confidence rehta hai. Wohi uss din tha. As I was running in to bowl that delivery, I saw Misbah move to play the scoop shot and in the fraction of a second, I had to change my line and pace of the ball. I bowled a slower one and he mis-hit it.” Although, even after that, there were a few butterflies in his stomach. He says, “When the ball was up in the air, saans ruk gayi thi. We had a fielder there to catch it, but it was Sreesanth, who wasn’t known for his fielding skills. Mann mein aaya ki bhai bas pakad lena!”
 
  
  There were a lot of butterflies in his stomach when Misbah skied the ball, says Joginder
 
 After the World Cup, Joginder went on to captain the Haryana team and also played successfully for   in the IPL. But his name is forever linked to that miraculous over, not that he minds it a bit. He says, “I don’t feel bad that all people talk about is that over or moment. It was a very important part of my life, one of my greatest achievements. Bas yeh malaal rehta hai ki international level par zyada nahin kar paaya.” That T20 final was the last time Joginder played for India, even though he has gone on to have a successful domestic career for Haryana. “I have played in the domestic circuit for over two decades, but due to injuries and other issues, I could never return to the national side. That still hurts,” says Joginder.
 
  
  
 However, Joginder did get to relive that moment once, something that not many know. He explains, “For Dhoni’s biopic, they used old footage of the match, but I was the only person who actually acted there. I went to shoot that over again and the footage in the film of me bowling was actually me shooting that again. Achha lagta hai ki jahan sabne actors ka sahara liya, apna role maine khud hi kiya.” Joginder now works with the Haryana Police and is posted as DSP in Hisar. The 33-year-old says that he has no plans to celebrate the 10th anniversary of the win because of police work. “There are no plans for celebration as of now, because I’m busy with work,” he says, “You know how life gets busy for a cop, particularly one in Haryana.”
 
  
  
 
