For residents of Lucknow (north),   is more important than   . The constituency has its own share of precarriously erected electricity poles and   kept in the open. Unable to reach their MLA with grievances, residents have resorted to protests.
Aliganj|
 
 Residents say MLA Abhishek Mishra has never visited them in the past five years. Transformers are kept without covers on the roadside at several points. However, power cuts are not frequent but it was not so three years ago. “ At least three transformers have been upgraded in the past three years,“ said Ajay Singh. Additional transformers were installed only after complaints to Lesa. “Power cuts were severe in the summer of 2015,“ said Javed Ali, a shop-owner in Purania.
 
 
 
 
 Voltage fluctuation and low voltage is a major issue here. “We understand there is an increase in demand during summer but what about the rainy season,“ said resident Vasudha Jain. “In summer, there is sparking from electricity poles. We have complained to Lesa and been told it is because of overloading,“ said resident  .
 
 
 
 
 Residents say their complaints are hardly ever answered despite 8-10 hour power cuts in summer.“A three-hour power cut is routine in our locality . Our complaint is never attended to by Lesa,“ said class XII student Rishabh Mishra of sector-H, Jankipuram.“There have been occasions when Lesa men repaired a fault and it occurred as soon as they left. Why can't they use better quality equipment ?“ said Jankipuram Extension resident Ramesh Singh. Residents had gheraoed the sub-station twice in summer.But this did not move the MLA. Residents also have a lot to say about the lackadaisical attitude of Lesa staff.“For the past several months, I have been trying to get my faulty meter replaced. Lesa should focus on improving its grievance redressal system,“ said Ramesh Singh.
 
 
 
 
 Narrow bylanes and dangerously placed transformers are life-threatening, especially when parked close by are vegetable carts and make-shift shops. “No one got electrocuted but we it's a threat,“ said Ram Manohar, a shopkeeper near Pucca Pul. “There are days when we faced even 11-hour power cuts. Lesa would come only when people in groups go to call them,“ said Rafat.
 
