Nagpur: The central public works   (CPWD) has sought another 11 months extension and an additional Rs35 crore to complete the construction of new National   (NFSC) campus at Raj Nagar. The project has already missed deadlines a couple of times and the cost was revised from Rs103crore to Rs205crore. The minstriy of home affairs has sought explanation from the college for the inordinate dealy before giving its approval to the cost escalation.

 The CPWD executive engineer, DK Ahuja, refused to comment on the issue saying the NFS director was the right person to comment on the delay in construction of the building.
 
 NFS director Shamim too refused to comment saying the issue of construction and delays was out of his purview.
 
 The institute is governed by the minstry of home affairs.
 
 Sources said this year’s budget for the work was been exhausted while the deadline too was over in August 2016. Now, a proposal has been forwarded for extension and cost escalation.
 
 “There are several issues like tender problems and encroachments. Procedures have to be followed. It takes 21 days for completing the tendering process. Thus, the CPWD kept missing the deadlines to complete the construction,” sources said. 
 
 In February, the minstry had written to the college after the integrated finance division (IFD) raised several queries. Meanwhile, the MHA joint secretary had called a meeting of CPWD chief engineer and NFS director. “Issues like why the project was delayed and who is reponsible for it were discussed. However, every agency concerned passed the buck. The CPWD explained that issues with strucutural drawing and payments were delaying the work,” the sources said.
 
 They also said the process of seeking explanation has started after the setting up of Niti Ayog. According to the Ayog, responsiblities must be fixed before approving the new cost in case of delays.
 
 “By April, fresh approvals will be given with a new deadline. The CPWD has sought around Rs30 to Rs35 crore while the college has requested for Rs5crore for equipment,” the sources said.
 
 On January 29, TOI had reported that completion of the new campus of NFSC, one of the best disaster management institutions, is stuck in red tape and civic body’s failure to remove encroachments.
 
 
