NOIDA: A youth who got two road accident victims admitted to a hospital on Monday had to spend the night in the lock-up of the Sector 20 police station. 

 While the incident raised questions on the Noida police’s compliance with the Supreme Court’s guidelines which stipulate that people who held victims of road accidents and other calamities should not be harassed in any manner, the police said 19-year-old Sumit Kumar was brought to the police station for his own safety.
 
 However, the victim was allegedly locked up along with other criminals, and his mobile phone and scooter keys seized. When asked about the allegations, the police did not have a satisfactory response.
 
 On Monday night, Sumit was waiting near   for his friends, Shubham Kumar (21) and Mohit Sharma (21), who were travelling on a mobike towards Sector 71 to meet him. 
 
 Their motorcycle was rammed by a Tata tempo from behind very near the spot where Sumit was waiting.
 
 “I was waiting for the two near the mandir when their mobike was hit by a Tata tempo from behind. The collision was so powerful that the two were seriously injured. I picked the two victims, hired an autorickshaw and took them to   in Sector 51,” Sumit said.
 
 He said Shivalik referred the two men to another hospital saying that their condition was critical. “I them took them to Kailash Hospital in Sector 27, where Shubham was declared brought dead while Mohit was admitted with a serious head injury,” he said.
 
 However, according to the police, when Shubham’s family members arrived at the hospital, his brother   and others started blaming Sumit for the accident.
 
 “When we got to know that Shubham’s family members were trying to beat up Sumit, we brought Sumit to the station for his own safety,” Ajay Shai, SHO, Sector 20 told TOI.
 
 Sumit was kept in lock-up from 10.30pm on Monday till 1.30pm on Tuesday, when Rohit himself came to the police station and said that Sumit was innocent.
 
  “We let him off after taking a written undertaking saying that Sumit had no role in the accident,” Shai said.
 
 SP (city) Arun Kumar said that an FIR has been registered against the driver of the Tata tempo based on the complaint of Shubham’s parents. “Sumit was brought to the police station safely after he was almost beaten up at Kailash Hospital,” he said.
 
 
