NEW DELHI: The   asked the four death row convicts in Nirbhaya rape-cum-murder case on Friday to file affidavits pointing out the   which could be considered while deciding the quantum of sentence.

 A bench of Justices Dipak Misra, R Banumathi and Ashok Bhushan asked the convicts to file their affidavits within three weeks, giving details of their background. The court passed the order after senior advocate Raju Ramachandran, who is assisting the court as amicus curiae, alleged that the lower courts did not consider the mitigating circumstances while awarding the death penalty to them.
 
 Ramachandran contended that Section 235 of CrPC, relating to sentencing of convicts, had not been followed in letter and spirit by the trial court in the case. The section says that an accused would be heard individually on the question of sentencing before the quantum of punishment is awarded.
 
 He said the courts failed to pay due regard to the mitigating factors argued in favour of the convict, resulting in serious prejudice to them. “It is submitted that the trial court failed to consider the actual age of any of the accused. Age of an accused is a relevant factor while awarding death sentence. This court has considered young age of an accused as a relevant mitigating factor and consequently awarded life sentence in many cases,” he had earlier argued.
 
 The convicts had brutally gang-raped raped a 23-year-old paramedic on the night of December 16, 2012 in a moving bus in south Delhi and thrown her out of the vehicle with her male friend. She later died in a Singapore hospital on December 29.
 
 The convicts Vinay Sharma (23), Akshay Thakur (31), Mukesh (29) and Pawan Gupta (22) were awarded death sentence by a trial court in September 2013 and six moths later, the   upheld their conviction and confirmed the sentence. The convicts then approached the Supreme Court which had in 2014 stayed their execution. 
 
 The Delhi High Court had termed the offence as "extremely fiendish" and "unparalleled in the history of criminal jurisprudence" and said "exemplary punishment" was the need of the hour.
 
 
