GURUGRAM:  ,   are also likely to be taken over by the  , along with  , Palam Vihar and DLF phases in the first round of transfer of private developer colonies between May 15 and June 30.

 Officials said MCG has already appointed consultants for each of these colonies, except for South City-1, to carry out the infrastructure deficiency analysis in these areas and submit detailed project reports (DPR) to the civic authorities in a month’s time.
 
 “We have started the process for seven colonies and the process for South City-1 will begin shortly. Once that’s done, the developers will be given an option to either complete the infra work within six months or pay the state government for completing the work,” MCG commissioner V Umashankar told TOI on Friday.
 
 “Depending on the reply from the developer, the process will be taken ahead. In case, a developer refuses both the options, the department of town and country planning (DTCP) will take suitable action. Eventually all the private colonies in the city will be taken over by MCG,” he added.
 
 As per Huda Act, builders have to maintain colonies for the next five years free of cost from the day of getting the completion certificate. Consequently, in the current situation, the state government will issue the completion certificate after recovering five years of maintenance cost in advance from these developers, officials said.
 
 “The project requires the consultants to observe the condition of the infrastructure in these residential areas, and conduct a gap analysis for infra available and the infra required as well as preparing cost estimates for takeover,” said an MCG official.
 
 The consultancy services would also cover services such as planning, designing for infrastructure, development (roads), water supply, storm water drainage, rain water harvesting and streetlights, he said.
 
 The state government last month announced that the civic body will take over Sushant Lok-I, Palam Vihar and DLF phases 1 to 3 by June 30, after chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar held a meeting with senior officials in Chandigarh.
 
 The CM had, in fact, given his approval to the MCG takeover of these private colonies in February 2016. But there had been no development on the front for over a year, forcing residents of the three areas to stage protests against the delay in takeover a number of times.
 
 
