BENGALURU: Lakhs of state   should be thrilled as the Karnataka Public Service Commission ( ) will issue a notification for recruitment to 403 Karnataka Administrative Service ( ) posts next week after two years. The exams are likely to be held in June.

 “The notification will be issued next week, as the file related to it has been cleared by  ,’’ said a senior official of the Department of Personnel and Administrative Reforms (DPAR), who is authorized to release the notification. Newly appointed KPSC member H S Duggappa also confirmed it: “It’s a matter of 6-10 days now”.
 
 KPSC conducts preliminary and main examination and personality tests for filling up posts of   every year. But the process had been stalled over the past two years following a scam, wherein several complaints were lodged against members of the KPSC for demanding bribe and favours to provide the requisite marks in the interview.
 
 DPAR officials also attributed the delay in finalizing the reservation quota for women and for candidates from the Hyderabad Karnatak region as per provisions of Article 371(J) of the Constitution. The government has amended the rules of reservation for women by increasing it from 30 per cent to 33 per cent and earmarked about 85 of the total 403 seats from Hyderabad Karnatak region.
 
 The Siddaramaiah government has now brought in various reforms on the lines of the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) in the conduct of examinations to prevent corruption and nepotism. A major reform is that marks secured by candidates in the written examination will be kept confidential and not made known to the members conducting the interview. The maximum marks for the interview will be 12.5 per cent of total marks prescribed for the competitive examinations, which will give little scope to tamper with.
 
 The KAS examination has also become tougher with negative marking (0.25 marks) being introduced. The two written examinations will be for 200 marks each, and will be objective type, multiple choice questions.
 
 But, under pressure from some quarters, the government increased the ratio of eligible candidates per post to be called for personality tests from 1:3 to 1:5 for appointment of category A and B Gazetted Probationers.
 
 Law minister Jayachandra defended the move saying the state government decided to increase the ratio to benefit thousands of candidates who come from rural areas. “An increase in the number of candidates will increase competition among candidates,’’ he added.
 
 Some apprehensions
 
 Many ageing KPSC hopefuls feared the delay will affect their employment prospects in the state civil service. M Chandrashekar, 35, said he had appeared for the Gazetted Probationers’ exam in 2014 but could not take it up because the KPSC failed to conduct it. “Now I am left now with a single attempt. I am waiting for the notification to know whether the government will make any provision for candidates like me to take two more attempts in lieu of the lost years’’ he added.
 
 Kannada compulsory
 
 The government has made it mandatory for aspirants to compulsorily pass in the Kannada language test by obtaining 50 marks out of the 150-mark paper. Exemptions are being given to those candidates who passed their SSLC examination or any other equivalent or higher examination conducted by the Karnataka government, with Kannada being the main language or the second language or an optional subject or the candidate has studied in a Kananda-medium school or passed the language test previously conducted by the KPSC.
 
