ALLAHABAD: Unable to get the symbols they had applied for, Independent candidates came back a disappointed bunch from the office of the returning officer, despite being given a choice of 87 available symbols. 

 From a hockey stick to a cauliflower, there was a diverse range of symbols available for the candidates to choose from. At the same time a large number of candidates chose to avoid certain 'inauspicious' symbols like a gas cylinder or a saw, at the behest of their astrologers as they are considered to be bad omens. 
 
 Independent candidate   from  , was allotted the symbol of a gas cylinder, however he refused to complete the formalities saying that the sign will leave negative impact on voters. 
 
 "The gas cylinder is inflammable and could have a negative impact on voters. I want a bucket as a symbol, as I had requested when I had filled the form," said Chandra to the returning officer.
 
 The candidates were unable to get the symbols they had sought either because those symbols were already allotted by the   to political parties or they were not in the list of 87 available symbols.
 
 Another candidate who did not get the symbol that he had requested for said his supporters would have to start canvassing afresh as his voters associated him with the symbol. However, the RO informed him that canvassing with a symbol, which was not allocated to him by the EC is illegal and his candidature could be cancelled. 
 
 Another Independent candidate  , who is contesting from Allahabad North constituency adn had wanted the symbol of a ' khet jotta kisan' (farmer tilling his land), had to return disappointed as it had already been assigned to a political party. "I had filled my preference in the application form but instead I have been given another symbol, a water tap. The rural population I represent do not have a regular water supply in their houses and will hardly relate themselves with a tap," said Kumar 
 
 Indresh Kumar Sonkar, who is contesting from Bara constituency and was allotted the saw as a symbol, "It is destructive. It will not help in me in garnering votes. My astrolegers had suggested me to use an animal as an electin symbol," said Indresh.
 
 Deputy election officer MK Rai said a symbol could be allotted only by ECI and candidates themselves cannot start canvassing on any symbol of their choice.
 
