CHENNAI: Caretaker CM O Panneerselvam's camp is slowly gaining strength. On Thursday ,   presidium chairman EMadhusudanan, one of the seniormost leaders of the party, turned up at OPS' house to express solidarity with him and “safeguard“ the party. Another prominent member to join was former MLA J C T Prabhakar.

 Though only five MLAs have openly extended support to OPS so far, his camp claimed that more were expected. It is reaching out to all MLAs by exerting pressure through social media campaigns. All AIADMK MLAs' cell phone numbers have been released through various platforms with requests to the electorate to call them up and seek support for OPS. Pressure is being mounted through their relatives also.
 
 “The `OPS missed call campaign' has received overwhelming response with more than 1.2 lakh calls in just 3 hours. Of these, 3% of the calls were from abroad and 6.5% from outside TN,“ said an IT wing source.
 
 Speaking to reporters, Panneerselvam said   had helped the party grow and had been a staunch suppor ter of MGR all through.
 
 “Annan (elder brother) Madhusudanan will be the permanent general secretary of the AIADMK. Soon after Jayalalithaa's death, Sasikala (OPS has stopped calling her Chinnamma) told me that Madhusudanan would be the general secretary and I would be the CM. Only because of that, I accepted the CM post,“ said Panneerselvam. But everything changed in just two days as she nursed political ambitions. She took over as party general secretary and set her eyes on the CM post. She instigated ministers to raise demands that she be made CM, said Panneerselvam.
 
 “I am witness to several crises that the party faced in the past. I want to save the AIADMK from this (Sasikala) family and that is why I have supported Panneerselvam,“ said Madhusudanan.
 
 Madhusudanan was found supporting Sasikala at the party MLAs' meeting at the AIADMK headquarters on Wednesday. As presidium chairman, it was he who led the party senior leaders who went to Poes Garden to request Sasikala to take over as general secretary of the party following Jayalalithaa's death.
 
 Meanwhile, a section of Deepa (Jaya's niece) supporters feel OPS has stolen the show for now, causing irreparable damage to her chances of leading a mass movement.
 
 For Deepa, who has kept her supporters waiting, OPS gaining strength is bad news. “People have been asking Deepa to announce her decision, but she has been seeking time. After Tuesday's road show of OPS at Jayalalithaa memorial, people have lost hope. Now the fight is only between Sasikala and OPS and nobody is talking about Deepa,“ said N Sayeeram, who used to campaign for her.
 
 
