HOWRAH: Relatives of a middle-aged patient in Howrah got the shock of their lives on Tuesday after they rushed to   expecting to find him dead but, instead, found him hale and hearty. In fact, 56-year-old Jaynarayan Pandey, who had been hospitalised around a week ago, was not only cured but was eating lunch, sitting beside the bed of another patient.

 Pandey had been admitted to Howrah district hospital on May 16 with tuberculosis and acute asthma. He was undergoing treatment at bed No. 72 in the male medical ward. Problems occurred after he was declared fit and discharged on Tuesday. Pandey did not want to leave. He simply lifted an unconscious patient who was lying on the floor on to his bed and started roaming around the hospital, eating leftover food from their plates.
 
 The patient who took Pandey’s place was unidentified, and in a very critical condition. “As there was no bed, we kept him on the floor, with a sticker on his forehead marked X-16. We mark a patient as ‘X’ when the person is unidentified,” said an official. 
 
 When this patient died later on Tuesday, the hospital authorities thought he was Pandey, and alerted his relatives, who rushed to the hospital only to see Pandey enjoying a meal. “Seeing us with garlands and flowers, he started to run,” said one of his relatives. “We gave chase, followed by doctors, nurses, and other hospital staff. He ran from one department to another. Finally, we caught up with him. He started shouting that he didn’t want to leave, saying he won’t have anything to eat.”
 
 Inquiries revealed that Pandey, a widower, lives alone and is not well off.
 
 “I haven’t ever come across such an incident,” said hospital superintendent  . “I cannot deny that the hospital authorities had some responsibility, and an inquiry will be initiated. But we have decided, on humanitarian grounds, that if Pandey doesn’t want to leave, he will be allowed to stay on. We make arrangements for so many patients, and so it will not be a problem to arrange for one more person. He can stay as long as he wants, Chatterjee added.
 
 
 
 
