NEW DELHI: Residents of east Delhi will have to wait till next March to enjoy hassle-free movement between Khajuri Khas and Outer Ring Road leading to NH-1 as well as adjoining areas. For the much-delayed   project is set to miss the September 2017   as well due to a disagreement between two Delhi government departments —   and   and Transportation Development Corporation (DTTDC) — over financial matters. 

 DTTDC, which is the implementing agency for the project, claims that the construction work has been moving at a snail’s pace since February due to lack of funds. “The contractors and labourers are refusing to work due to non-payment of dues. Had we received the money on time, we would have finished a major portion of the work,” said a DTTDC official. 
 
 When TOI visited the site recently, DTTDC officials informed that the contractor had refused to place a segment on the pylon, the main structure of the bridge, due to non-payment of dues. “Since last Thursday, the steel segment has been lying suspended on crane wires,” one of the officials said. The work resumed on Friday after a portion of the amount was released.
 
 The DTTDC officials claim PWD, which had sanctioned the project, has to pay close to Rs 350 crore since its cost—the initial cost of Rs 631 crore was revised twice—first it was hiked to Rs 1,131 crore and then revised estimate Rs 1,594 crore was cleared in November last year. But the department has not released the balance amount despite repeated requests, allege DTTDC officials. 
 
 “The revised estimate was approved by the LG-appointed advisory committee in November 2016. PWD had raised a few objections to the cost escalation, which we have clarified,” added the DTTDC official. PWD has so far released Rs 1,244 crore. A few days ago, it had released some more money after contractors refused to work. 
 
 PWD officials, however, blame DTTDC for the “poor planning and mismanagement”, resulting in an “extraordinary delay”. Sanctioned in March 2010, the project was to be completed by December 2013, but it has missed several deadlines. “Due to their mismanagement, the cost of the project has gone up by 1.4 times. There has to be some accountability for such delay, which has resulted in massive cost escalation,” said a senior PWD official.
 
 PWD has sought finance department’s opinion on the cost escalation matter. “The project was approved by the cabinet in 2010. Now, the matter will be placed before the cabinet to decide about balance payment,” the PWD official added. 
 
 The project, which was to be completed by September 2017, is likely to be completed by February-March next year. DTTDC officials say that it will take “eight months to complete the work”. “At present, work is going on in the most crucial section, the suspended part of the bridge. We are in the process of installing stay cables and constructing the pylon, which will take the entire load of the suspended portion of the bridge. Certain works should be completed before the monsoon,” said the DTTDC official.
 
 While the blame game is on, it is the people who are at the receiving end. People travelling from places like Timarpur and ISBT to Khajuri Khas and neighbouring areas have to face long jams on the existing double-lane old Wazirabad bridge.
 
