JAMSHEDPUR: With an aim to inculcate the habit of   and   among motorists, the   on Monday screened a 120-minute   entitled "Road Safety" at   on Monday. 

 The crowd which assembled to watch the film included a majority of the traffic rule offenders who were caught in Sakchi ahead of the screening of the film. 
 
 The film was screened specially for the violators who were caught for not wearing helmet. The film explained to them how they are inviting threats to their lives by overlooking the safety rules. 
 
 "This film screening is an initiative aimed to show the public that not wearing a helmet and ignoring the seat belt can be dangerous to life and that it should not be overlooked," Vivekanand Thakur, deputy superintendent of police (DSP) (traffic), said. 
 
 The officer also said the 120 minute long movie managed to grasp nearly 200 people's attention. "The crux of the movie was to underline the significance of wearing a helmet and also using the seat belt," Vivekanand added. 
 
 The two-hour film is a collection of short films made by many various production houses and amateur film makers across the country. "A series of short films made on road safety were accordingly arranged for the screening." the DSP said. 
 
 The traffic police also ensured that the rule offenders had to pay the fine for their offence after with watching the film. "I regret the fact that I forgot to wear helmet as I was in a hurry to reach the railway station in the wee hours but after watching this informative film, I realised that wearing a helmet is something that one should not forget," 52-year-old R K Singh, said. Singh was one of the people in the crowd who violated a traffic rule and was made to watch the film. 
 
 Likewise, Muhammad Sohail, who was also part of the crowd advised the traffic department to screen the film in all the colleges for precaution and safety measures. 
 
 "The college boys and girls should be aware of the danger that can be caused while violating a traffic rule(s). Also, the students should learn that not wearing a helmet, even by mistake, could be fatal," Sohail said. 
 
 The effective drive launched by the traffic police to discipline the two-wheeler traffic fetched an average of Rs 1 lakh per day as fine in May this year. "A total of Rs 31,14,820 was collected as fine from the two-wheeler riders for not wearing helmet in May ," Vivekanand said. 
 
 
