MUMBAI: In statements made to the   over the alleged   case of Agnelo Valdaris, accused in a theft case in 2014, three co-accused including one who was then a minor recalled how cops brutally tortured the 25-year-old till he could not even stand. Refuting the police version that Angelo died under a train after running away from custody on April 18, 2014, a witness said, “The entire incident of assault and severe beating took place in front of me. It was not possible for Richie (Agnelo) to run from custody as he was severely beaten. Police are trying to cover up by making a false claim of this train accident.“

 On Monday the matter came up before the special Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act court. Three cops accused under the act were represented by advocate Prabhanjay Dave. The case was adjourned to February 23.
 
 The witness said Agnelo's name was not written in the case papers drawn up on the night of April 16, 2014. He said when he asked an accused cop, Suresh Mane, why Agnelo was not taken with others for the mandatory medical check up prior to being produced before the magistrate next day, he was told his father had agreed to give them Rs 2 lakh. “I said it was not possible,“ the witness said. He and another accused said it was on April 19, while they were re-produced before a magistrate, that cops told them about the death.
 
 A witness who was allegedly made to perform oral sex on the minor and Agnelo, said another cop, Vikas Suryavanshi, attempted to push a wooden rod up into his private part while he was hung upside down.“When they failed, Mane and Satyajith Kamble said if I didn't reveal who has the stolen chain, they will sprinkle petrol on my private parts,“ he said. The witness stated the torture meted out to Agnelo left him suffering like a “fish out of water“.
 
 Referring to the afternoon of April 17, 2014, he said, “Richie was screaming for help saying he needs medical attention. Foam started coming out of his mouth.`Pathan' officer threw some water on his face. He gave Richie an onion and chappal and kept it near his nose. Richie regained consciousness only in the evening,“ the witness said. He said when Agnelo repeatedly sought medical help, the woman officer abused him: “Tu tadap tadap kar mar..“ (Die in pain).
 
 Agnelo's brother Reagan told the CBI his brother was picked up in the wee hours of April 16, 2014, from their grandparents' home at Dharavi. He and the brother of another accused said they saw cops beating one of the trio who was forced to lie naked. He stated on the night of April17, 2014, his fat her told him Agnelo was not produced in court with the others. Reagan said at 10.30am on April 18, 2014, he received a call from Agnelo asking him to get him some glucose and clothes at noon.
 
 “He said throughout the night he was thrashed very badly by the police and was giddy.“ He said his brother was not in the lock up when he reached at 11.45am and cops told him since he was slightly injured, he was taken to Sion Hospital and would return shortly. “I sat there for nearly one-and-ahalf hour, then I got a call from my father informing me about my brother's death.“
 
 The statements are part of a supplementary chargesheet submitted by the CBI last month accusing three of the eight cops from Wadala railway police under the POCSO Act, in addition to assault, wrongful confinement, and negligence in custody . The minor, who was 15 at the time of the incident, alleged Mane, Suryavanshi and Kamble had forced one of the accused to perform oral sex on him and Agnelo. The minor told the investigating agency that he was absolutely “helpless and felt ashamed and bad when this happened, but blindly obeyed the orders of the accused.“ He further said that Mane threatened him and Agnelo and said that if they didn't partake in the act, they would be beaten.
 
 
 
 
 The tales of torture described by the witnesses are horrific. If they are found to be reliable by the court, the policemen accused in the case must be held accountable and stringent punishment must be handed out to them to set an example that those in uniform will not be spared.
 
