KOLKATA: A CID team from Kolkata conducted raids at three places at NCR — areas surrounding Delhi — on Saturday, in search of Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (GJM) general secretary   booked under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA), five days after Giri called on Union home minister   on September 15, fuelling speculation that the GJM general secretary has been arrested from Dehradun.

 Confusion did the rounds in police circles in north Bengal till ADG (CID) Rajesh Kumar set the speculation to rest in the evening. "We have not arrested Giri from Dehradun. This is a media creation," said Rajesh Kumar. Senior Superintendent of Police Dehradun Nivedita Kukreti also refuted the arrest claim. “I am not aware of any such arrest,” the SSP said.
 
 This is the second time Giri escaped arrest days after he gave the CID team a miss at Gurgaon few days ago. CID teams are now stationed at four different locations in three states in serarch of the remaining GJM members. The CID is likely to raid Sikkim for UAPA accused GJM president Bimal Gurung, confirmed top sources. "We will question them on who orchestrated the Bhanu Bhawan rioting on June 8 and the funds that were allotted for it," said a source. 
 
 Giri’s meeting the Union home minister didn’t go down well among the police ranks in   because he was booked under the UAPA while met Singh. What’s more is that the GJM general secretary briefed the home minister about the atrocities of the ruling Trinamool in the Hills. Soon after this meeting, the   government stepped up search operations for Giri on one hand, and also placed rebel GJM leaders Binay Tamang and Anit Thapa at the helm of the otherwise defunct Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) in a bid to marginalise the GJM leaders loyal to Bimal Gurung who have been seeking the Centre’s intervention to sort out the political impasse in the Hills. The state government has also promised Rs 500 crore fund for the GTA to renew the development process in the Hills that had come to a stop in the three-month indefinite strike. 
 
 Police on Saturday produced the other three arrested GJM leaders — GJM leader and chief advisor of the Planters Associations Tilak Chandra Roka, Darjeeling Municipality chairman and GJM leader DK Pradhan, and former GTA sabhasad from Ghoom-Jorebungalow Samasty P.T. Ola — at a Kolkata court from where they were taken to Siliguri on transit remand.
 
 
