INDORE: Directorate of skill development and   and Training (MPCVET) have roped in regional industries to formulate learning module for technical courses students and provide training to them. The move has been taken to bridge the gap between   requirement and technical courses. 

 According to data from Pithampur Audhyogik Sangathan, industries in Pithampur alone require 5000 skilled workers for various profiles, but the requirement is lying unfilled for past many years. 
 
 The directorate of skill development and MPCVET have now invited industries for drafting training module for professional courses in industrial training institutes (ITIs) and other technical colleges to increase placements and job opportunities. 
 
 MPCVET additional director G N Agrawal said, “We have invited suggestions from industries for developing the training module for students. Industries will also provide training to students as per their requirements. Their contribution will bring uniformity in courses across the country.”
 
 Under the state run Mukhya Mantri Kaushal Samvardhan Yojana and Kaushalya Yojana, about 4.5 lakh youth of the state will be trained under revised module for several skilled courses. 
 
 An industrialist Kailash Agrawal said, “The state has one of the largest industrial belts and many big industries, but there are negligible skilled workers due to outdated courses and fast changing industry requirements.”
 
 On Saturday, 40 flexi memorandums of understanding (MOU) were signed between industries from across the country and local ITIs and State Skill Development Mission. 
 
 Pithampur is the largest industrial belts of the state housing some of the major pharmaceutical, automobile, engineering and textile firms. The industrial belt in the region is spread over Pithampur, Sanwer road, Pologround and Palda among others. 
 
 Industry players said that small scale industries are losing much due to lack of skilled manpower as they cannot afford to pay high charges for importing skilled manpower from metros or overseas unlike large firms.
 
