BAREILLY: Though the   has said that authorities were cracking the whip on   "without  ", the one meat product readily available in the state, even from  , is pork.
 
  While meat shop and abattoir owners dealing in buffalo and other items are queuing up outside the offices of the Food Safety and Drug Administration (FSDA) and civic bodies to get the various documents required, pork suppliers, mostly Hindus, seem to be mostly unaffected.
  
  Following its election promise, the newly-formed BJP government issued strict instructions to the administration across the state to clamp down on illegal slaughterhouses and meat shops.
  
  Most pork sellers in the state operate small establishments and slaughter animals on their own. In Bareilly city, at Nai Basti of Madhobadi area, pork is easily available, sold openly at five makeshift roadside shops.
  
  Kripal Valmiki, one of the pork sellers, told TOI, “We re-opened our shops from Thursday, after a break of nine days due to the Navratras. Most of our customers are Valmikis. The Muslims don’t eat pork and neither do most Hindu castes. Similarly, only a few Christians buy their pork from us. The volume of sale is low. Between the five shops, we slaughter one pig every day, which is sufficient for our customers.”
  
  The sellers said they were not aware that they had to procure licences to slaughter and sell the meat. “We don’t know if any documents are required. We never got any licence from any authority. We have been running these shops for generations and nobody has ever prevented us from selling pork,” Valmiki added.
  
  “The sellers and their customers are either completely illiterate or poorly educated. They are not aware of the norms regarding meat sale issued by the authorities. Ideally, they should get the animal slaughtered at designated abattoirs,” said Sanjeev Bawa, a social worker who also lives in the neighbourhood.
  
  There is no designated slaughterhouse for pigs in the region, leave alone the district. “Moreover, unlike mutton and buffalo meat sellers, pork sellers can’t get shops on rent at markets because of the stigma attached to the meat. The municipal corporation has also not provided them any space for their business. So they slaughter the animal on their own and sell the meat by themselves,” Bawa added.
  
  According to the animal husbandry department of Uttar Pradesh, production of pork in the state was 1.41 lakh tonnes in 2014-15, the highest in the country. However, there are two distinct kinds of pig meat consumed in the country. According to a report prepared by the United State’s department of agriculture, most hotels, restaurants, and high-end retail shops sell imported processed pork. The domestic pork is sold mainly in the unorganised sector.
  
  “The norms apply equally to all meat sellers, irrespective of whether they sell pork, mutton, buffalo meat or chicken, anywhere in UP. During our week-long drive against illegal abattoirs and meat shops, we found all the pork shops shut. If the sellers have re-opened the shops, strict action will be taken against them,” said additional district magistrate (enforcement), S P Singh.
