For purists, the joy of watching   on a field measuring 110 yards is irreplaceable. But there are many for whom football played on almost half the field brings plenty of more excitement.
 
  The Goa Sevens Premier League has managed to do that on debut in Goa. It has given football a new direction: crowd turning up to watch, excitement and more importantly, little-known players grabbing attention.
  
  On Sunday, it was the turn of   to bask in the glory. A popular name on Goa’s futsal circuit, Hadkonkar rose to the occasion in front of 5,000 spectators. In fact, he has been St Cruz Club’s go-to player in this format and the Cavelossim club again relied on his brace to put it across Guardian Angel SC 3-1 and seal a berth in Tuesday’s final against Churchill Bros at the SAG ground in  .
  
  “The tournament is a perfect platform for young footballers. They can showcase their talent which can give their career a boost. Look at our goalkeeper (Ozen Silva). He was terrific and it will keep him motivated,” said Cavelossim coach Severino Fernandes.
  
  Cavelossim supporters came well prepared to cheer their young guns. Bersal Viegas, another emerging player, sounded the alarm first when his strike hit the upright. Then it was all about Suraj as he put his team ahead with a close ranger in the seventh minute. Minutes later, Suraj converted a spectacular freekick for his fourth goal of the tournament.
  
  Richard Fernandes scored the third in the second session while Micky Fernandes reduced the margin with a penalty for Guardian Angel. Moises D’Sa bagged the Man-of-the-Match award for his efforts in defence.
  
  “It is a great achievement for Cavelossim to reach the final. We always promote young talent and will give our best against Churchill,” said Severino.
  
  Sevens is a nightmare for all goalkeepers as shots come flying from every corner of the pitch. Guardian Angel custodian Pratheesh VV did a commendable job too and is another upcoming player. The goal margin could have been more if not for Pratheesh’s reflexes.
