JAIPUR: Cow vigilante groups swung into action in Jaipur on Sunday, just a day after Yogi Adityanath of the Hindu Yuva Vahini, which champions the cause of cow protection, was sworn in chief minister of UP. Kamal Didi (that is how she signs her name), leader of the National Women’s Cow Protection Group had been trying to round up stray cows near the   Hotel near Polo Victory Cinema in Bani Park on Sunday evening when a young man working in the hotel arrived to dispose food waste. Didi and her group charged the youth with “polluting” cows by feeding them leftover beef. Soon, a crowd gathered near the hotel.

 Kavita Srivastava of the People’s Union for Civil Liberties, who was called by relatives of the hotel owner, said, “Police was informed that beef was cooked in the hotel. The cow protectors seem to always have the media close at hand – policemen and media people were present at the site of the protest. About 100 people had gathered outside the hotel, raising slogans of ‘Jai Shree Ram!’.”
 
 On TV reports by late evening, there was already aspersion that the meat was suspicious, with reports claiming that it did not appear to be either chicken or mutton. As hotel owner Naeem Rabbani could not be found either at his house or other locations that were searched, his brother-in-law, who has nothing to do with the running of the hotel, was taken to the thana. The hotel’s receptionist and cleaner were booked under Section 151 of the Criminal Procedure Code (arrest to prevent commission of cognizable offences).
 
 Brochures on communal harmony were found at the hotel, originally brought out by the Jamat Islami Hind. Police searched the Jamat office too for the hotel’s owner.
  
 Kavita Srivastava said, “I rushed to the Sindhi camp police station after relatives of the hotelier got in touch with me. We managed to get the police to release Abdul Rehman Rabbani’s brother-in-law. It was when we dropped him home that we realized that the two others from the hotel had been picked up. We were told that they were arrested and would be produced before a magistrate.”
  
 Srivastava expressed surprise that guests were evicted and the premise sealed on the basis of a call. “Hayat Rabbani has been getting awards regularly from the hoteliers association for good service,” she said.
  
 Deputy commissioner of police (west) Ashok Gupta said, “Two people were detained and samples were sent for forensic examination to test if the suspicion that beef was being served are true. Prima facie, it does not appear that there was any violation of the law.” Asked if it was correct for the hotel to be sealed on mere suspicion, he said, “The   sealed the hotel, not police.”
 
 Mayor Ashok Lahoti, on whose instructions the hotel was reportedly sealed, could not be reached over phone.
  
 This is not the first such case in Rajasthan. Even before the lynching of Mohammad Akhlaq in Dadri, UP, in September 2015, 60-year-old Abdul Ghaffar Qureshi was killed in Birloka, Khimsar tehsil of Nagaur district on May 30 that year after rumours spread that he had killed 200 cows for a feast. Pictures of carcasses were spread on social media. Young men in the thousands gathered in fields of Kumhari village, which the contractor of the municipality had taken on rent for the disposal of animal carcasses. Qureshi, who had nothing to do with the animals, was beaten to death with iron rods even as some Hindu neigbhours attempted to come to his rescue. 
 
