Kolkata/Midnapore: City residents with a   tooth may have to do without their favourite sandesh, rosogolla or chhanar jilipi if sweet sellers make their threat — to take the bandh route “unless GST on sweets is lifted” — a reality. 

 This call for a statewide bandh by sweet traders was made at a meeting on Wednesday of the   chapter of the West Bengal Sweet Sellers’ Association. The association will decide on the next course of action by local confectioners at another meeting in Kolkata on Thursday.
 
 City sweet sellers have been crying foul over GST and have already gone on record, saying not only sweets but also savouries have started costing more because of the new tax system. There are several shops in the city where bills are not given against sale of sweets. Branded shops too do not follow billing system in many cases and have not converted to the GST system as of now. They have been charging customers their old rates till now, waiting for a consensus to happen in the Thursday meet. While some brands like K C Das, Balaram Mullick and Banchharam have started adding GST to their bills, there are others like Bhim Nag who are waiting for the outcome of the city meeting. 
 
 “We have always been on the formal billing system, so there’s no question of evading GST though it has definitely upped the amount and is a burden on the customers. Since the time of the Left Front government, we have been considered a part of Bengal’s heritage and a cottage industry. So all taxes were waived. We will make a formal appeal for a GST waiver on Thursday,” said Dhiman Das, spokesperson for K C Das.
 
 Bhim Nag, on the other hand, has been charging old rates. “We are yet to graduate to GST and have been charging our customers old rates. We will wait for the outcome of the Thursday meeting,” said Pradip Das of the shop.
 
 Association secretary Rabin Pal of Hindusthan Sweets said after Wednesday’s meet in Midnapore town: “Some 25 years ago, then chief minister   lifted sales tax on sweets. We were brought back into the tax fold around eight years ago with the imposition of VAT on our products. But protests by us eventually forced the government to lift that as well. Now, they have imposed 5% GST on perishable sweets like sandesh and rosogolla. Bengali sweets are mostly perishable as most are made of chhana.   and consequent increase in prices of sweets apart, GST will increase our overhead costs as we will have to maintain accounts.” Pal added: “We expect the state government to take the initiative of speak up on our behalf and getting us off the GST fold.”
 
