BENGALURU: With less than 40 days to go for the launch of   - the government's ambitious programme to provided food at affordable price in each of the 198 wards in   - structures to accommodate the eateries have already sprung up at 55 locations. The   is confident that all the 198 canteens will be ready by August 4. 

  "When the budget announcement was made, time was the biggest challenge. A team comprising chief engineers from PWD, BBMP, BDA and BWSSB was set up to look into how fast these structures could be set up and they suggested that the precast model would be the best option. The nearest facility that could make Building Information Model (BIM) structures was at   and parts of the canteen buildings are being transported from there. We will get all the canteens and kitchens ready by August 4," said Manoj Ranjan, special commissioner of BBMP in charge of the Indira Canteen project. 
 
  For one canteen, nine trucks are required to transport the precast structures and it takes eight days for the contractor, KEF Infrastructure, to assemble and build it. The contractor surveys the land identified in each of the wards to approve if the canteen can come up on the same. So far, it has okayed 150 sites. Next, the land is levelled and excavated to insert an underground water tank, which too is a precast structure brought from the Krishnagiri factory. 
 
 "Between third and eighth day, the entire structure is put up and fixed. It includes water pipelines, electric conduits, gas pipe network, furniture, etc.," said Ranjan. Each canteen is spread over 100 sqft and is worth Rs 28.5 lakh. The canteens will be serviced by one centralized kitchen in each assembly segment, and there'll be 27 such kitchens spanning over 2,400 sqft each.
 
  In the pre-bid meeting held on July 3, 17 caterers/hoteliers expressed interest in setting up kitchens. However, BBMP said each hotelier could take up building of kitchens in five constituencies at the most. "Technically, we need six caterers to set up kitchens, and if any of them fail to adhere to the standard operating procedure (SOP), we could drop them," he added. The Palike has drawn up an elaborate SOP which caterers and canteens have to adhere to. The SOP covers everything from fixing the time when curd should be mixed with rice to make curd rice to training chefs for the kitchens. 
 
