HYDERABAD: The 15-years-old girl from Bachupally, who had run away to Mumbai a couple of days ago to chase her acting dreams, was brought to the city by police late on Tuesday night and was presented before the   ( ),   district on Wednesday.

 Since the girl had earlier refused to go to her home, CWC is yet to take a final decision on whether her custody should be given to her parents or not. Meanwhile, the parents of the class 10 girl were heartbroken on Wednesday when they were not allowed to meet her by officials. The girl refused to meet her father and mother when they rushed to Mumbai to see her. Until the final decision is taken by CWC, Anitha Sri (name changed) will be in Children Home for Girls, Nimboliadda. The girl earlier claimed that she had run away to Mumbai after Lord Sai Baba appea red in her dreams and advised her to stay away from her parents for their safety. Apart from giving counselling, experts are ascertaining her psychological condition.
 
 CWC chairperson Padmavathi said that the decision on Anitha Sri's custody would be taken on Thursday. “Since the girl reached the city late in the night after a gruelling 14-hour journey from Mumbai, we thought the bench should sit on Thursday to discuss the issue with the girl. We attached few counsellors to the girl, and she is interacting well. I also heard that she is slowly changing her mind and agreeing to the idea of going back to her parents. In fact, the girl is very intelligent and innocent,'' Padmavathi told TOI.
 
 The parents, who too reached the office of CWC could not meet or talk to their daughter. However, they are hopeful that she will return home soon. “We have to help the girl come out of hallucination about Lord Sai Baba asking her to stay away from her parents. If we can do that, she herself will come back to us,'' Vijaya, mother of Anitha Sri said.
 
 Ruling out any criminal angle in the case, deputy commissioner of police ( )   and assistant commissioner of police (Kukatpally division) , said that the role of police in the case was complete.
 
