MEERUT: Radhe Shyam, district president of the  , was disappointed when he combed through the first list of 100 candidates announced by   (BSP) chief Mayawati. He said he was sad to find that of the 100 names who will contest elections in the first two phases, only 17 are Dalits. On Tuesday, the party had announced that it would field just 87 Dalit candidates from UP’s 403 assembly seats. This is despite the fact that 85 of these seats are anyway reserved for Scheduled Castes. The list, Shyam said, felt like a “stab in the back”.
 
  “When Kanshi Ram founded the party, he had a very simple slogan – Bahujan hitaya, bahujan sukhaya (Welfare of the oppressed masses). Mayawati changed it to Sarvajan hitaya, sarvajan sukhaya (Welfare of all). That was the first sign of her moving away from Kanshi Ram’s message. She has forgotten that this is a party of Dalits. Now, she has surrounded herself with Brahmins like   who want to take her away from her message. This is no longer a party we can support,” Shyam said.
  
  Shyam is not alone. Other Dalit outfits in UP, too, said they were surprised at the high number of tickets, 113, given to “upper caste” candidates. Many, however, do not have a problem with Muslims being given more tickets since, according to Shyam, Muslims are their “comrades in the Bahujan revolution”. What they fear is that the BSP boss is the under “Brahminical influence” now. The party is set to give tickets to 97 Muslim candidates in 403 seats. In the first 100 names, the list features 36 Muslim names.
  
  Over the last three assembly elections, Dalit representation on the BSP’s candidate list has steadily declined. In 2007, the party fielded 61 Muslims and 89 Dalits. In 2012, it was 88 Dalit candidates and 85 Muslims. While there is a decrease in the number of “upper-caste” candidates, from 117 in 2012 to 113 this year, Dalit activists feel they have been marginalized in a party they once thought their own.
  
  Mamta Shiva, a functionary of All India Backward and Minority Communities Employees Federation (BAMCEF), which was founded by Kanshi Ram, said, “I have nothing but respect for behen Mayawati. She has risen above her social condition of being a Dalit and a woman. She is a strong leader. However, she is surrounded by Manuwaadis. In its present condition, I cannot support BSP. We need a strong, organized party to counter casteist forces of the BJP and RSS. This BSP cannot do so.”
  
   , a senior member of   (BMP), a Dalit front, said, “Most of our people were members of the BSP. Even I used to campaign for the party enthusiastically. We were happy that finally Dalits were getting their due. However, the message has gotten lost. She is now no different from any other party. This time, we will field candidates in all assembly seats. We would not have had to form this party had Behenji stayed true to her message.”
