PANAJI: A WhatsApp message doing the rounds ‘exposed’ a leading politician for harbouring a   at his residence in the run-up to the state assembly elections on Saturday.

 A Hindu priest left the residence of an aspiring MLA early morning, presumably after conducting special prayers.   joined their hands in prayer for early morning mass at their neighbouring churches, while many others consulted astrologers, spiritual gurus and even black magicians in their quest to occupy one of the 40 assembly seats.
 
 Elections bring out the best, and worst, in a politician, and as D-day arrived, politicians of all hues left nothing to chance in Goa. “The uncertainty of politics prompts people to have faith in different things,” said Fatorda MLA Vijai Sardesai.
 
 Sardesai was preparing for polls early Saturday morning when a supporter bundled him into a car and took him to Maina-Curtorim where they both knelt before the Khandi Khuris or ‘cross near the sluice gate’ and prayed for victory in the state assembly elections.
 
 When elections were last held in 2012, Sardesai had visited the cross and ended up triumphing over incumbent Fatorda MLA Damodar ‘Damu’ Naik. Given the fierce political battle and the higher stakes, none of his supporters wanted to take a chance, and neither did Sardesai.
 
 “More than anything, supporters feel if you do a particular thing, chances of getting elected are considerably enhanced,” he told STOI at his Fatorda office, flashing his right hand that has several holy threads, including one gifted to him by a Muslim supporter after a recent visit to the Ajmer Sharif Dargah.
 
 Sardesai may have been compelled to rush to Curtorim by his supporters, unlike a prominent MLA with obvious chief ministerial ambitions, who does nothing without seeking prasad. “Two very famous, and possibly winning candidates, were denied tickets simply because the prasad was not in their favour,” said a source who has been witness to such proceedings.
 
 To seek prasad, a special smaller idol is reserved for the ritual in select historic temples in Goa. When a devotee approaches the temple priest, he uses flower petals to interact with the deity, while seeking an approval or disapproval to the devotee’s question. 
 
 “If you are a God-fearing person, you are morally strong,” says former chief minister Digambar Kamat, among the more religious politicians in Goa, who opted for a puja at home before kickstarting proceedings on Saturday.
 
 A South Goa MLA thought it was best to visit the church early morning for mass and seek blessings. But God, or rather God’s ‘messengers,’ were not on his side as the parish priest told parishioners not to vote for independents for fear of “aligning with the BJP”.
 
 Probably, God has his own favourites, not necessarily those who fear him.
 
