CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and   on Friday issued notice to the Haryana chief secretary on a contempt plea filed by a woman international   for not considering her case for job under   despite court directions.

 Justice Jaswant Singh has issued the notice after hearing a contempt of court petition filed by Reenu, a resident of   in Fatehabad district.
 
 Besides chief secretary D S Dhesi, notices has also been issued to additional chief secretary (home)  , additional chief secretary (sports and youth affairs) K K Khandelwal and director (sports) Jagdeep Singh seeking their replies on the issue by July 12.
 
 The petitioner had moved a legal representation on May 7, 2015 to the state government for appointment to consider her for appointment in the home (police) department in terms of the policy of government, notified on January 6, 2009, in Haryana police against sports quota.
 
 She was a member of Indian women team which won the Kabaddi World Cup of 2012 and 2014, organized by the government of Punjab. The 2012 Kabbadi World Cup was sanctioned by the International Kabaddi Federation and Amateur Kabaddi Federation of India. The petitioner stated she was eligible for Group ‘C’ post in the home, sports and youth affairs, school education and rural development and panchayats departments.
 
 When her representation was not decided by the authorities, she had filed petition before the HC in 2015. Hearing her plea, Justice Ritu Bahri, in her April 4, 2016 orders, had disposed of her petition by giving a direction to the state authorities to consider her claim for the appointment in view of the state’s policy within a petition of three months.
 
 As the state had failed to consider her case, Reenu has filed a contempt petition seeking initiation of contempt of court proceedings against the officers of the state for not complying the April 4, 2016 orders.
 
 The petitioner’s counsel   submitted that despite the court’s three-month deadline in 2016, the state authorities failed to implement the orders even after a period of one year. The counsel has sought directions for contempt of court proceedings against the officers for wilful defiance of HC orders. The case would now come up for hearing on July 12.
 
 
