JAIPUR:  , national secretary of the   said at a press conference on Friday that workers and farmers have faced enormous hardship since the note-changing exercise announced by Prime Minister   on November 8. Corruption has not ended ­ in fact, new forms of corruption were reported as mints supplied notes in large quantities to the homes of some powerful individuals, side-stepping the procedure of handing notes to banks, she said. Fake notes of the new Rs 2000 denomination have also been found. As for terrorism, about 40 soldiers have died in attacks by terrorists since November 8, so that too has not happened, she said.

 Kaur said that seeing that the intended effects of the note-changing exercise have not panned out as initially announced, the government has changed tack and claimed that the aim of the exercise was to introduce a cashless system ­ the first ATM in the country was introduced just 21 years ago and going cashless is a slow process that should be allowed to occur with time, she said. “The government is only shoving this down poor people's throats with the intension of benefiting large corporates. The companies that handle card payments are 90% foreign ones, mostly headquartered in the US.The government must announce who it intends to benefit. Is it working for the people of India, or only for the rich corporates, some of ma ny abroad?“ she asked.
 
 Kaur also came down heavily on the move announced just a week ago to list five government-owned insurance companies in the stock market and reduce government holdings in these from 100% to 75%. “These are companies from which the government earns money . The government does not spend on these. If there are problems and the public's money is thrown down the drain in the stock markets, will the government then own responsibility?“ she asked.
 
 She said the   was out to destroy the spine of public sector companies that were doing quite well. “Oil India would earlier supply the railways, now those supplies are being procured from private firms like Adani and Reliance.Public sector bank officials are set to go on strike on February 7 to protest government moves for merger, which will ultimately make them weaker and pave the way for greater profiteering by foreign banks,“ she said.
 
