Amol Yadav, a pilot who assembled a six-seater aircraft on the terrace of his three BHK flat in Charkop, and who was given an opportunity to display his creation at the Make in India Week in Mumbai last year, will be allotted a 157-acre plot in Palghar by the state government to set up his enterprise. Yadav plans to manufacture six-seater and 20-seater aircraft in India, under the banner of his Thrust India Company.

 Yadav, 41, a deputy chief pilot with  , is scheduled to meet with Chief Minister   on Monday, along with representatives of companies that specialise in manufacturing aircraft engine and other technology. “It’s a dream come true,” Yadav said, “I went to the US for training in 1995 and saw a lot of people, including middleclass families, assembling used planes to create customised flying machines. I was inspired to do the same in India.”
 
 Mumbai Mirror reported last year how Yadav, over a period of six years, put together a plane in his house that he shared with 19 members (‘Plane put together on a Charkop terrace features in Make in India’; MM, February 13, 2016). He created an aircraft that can soar up to 13,000-ft at 1,500 ft per minute, and cover a distance of 2,000-km at the top speed of 185 nautical miles an hour. The plane is currently parked at the Dhule airport.
 
 “I’m thankful for the support I have been receiving. The government has big dreams in terms of regional air connectivity and I’m a believer that it cannot be achieved till we start manufacturing planes in India. Once we start building aircraft, there will be a revolution in the Indian aviation industry,” he said.
 
 Mirror contacted Fadnavis, who confirmed the state will do everything possible to help Yadav. Mantralaya sources said the Palghar district collector, Abhijit Bangar, has been asked to attend the CM’s meeting with Yadav. “Air safety officers from the DGCA will also attend the meeting,” the source said.
 
 Yadav said one of the challenges is to get funding for his project. He spent “a few crores of rupees” just creating a single six-seater, and a fullfledged factory churning out six-seaters and 20-seaters will require massive funding, he said.
 
 “If I can get seed funding (government support), I’m very confident of setting up the infrastructure by the end of this year,” Yadav said.
 
 
 
 
 Controversial senior pilot Arvind Kathpalia, who has been grounded till May for violating flying norms, was promoted and appointed to a Director-level post in the government-controlled Air India on Thursday. The Appointments Committee of Cabinet approved the appointment of Kathpalia to the post of Director (Operations) in Air India Ltd for a period of five years.
 
