KOCHI:   will get a special gift on March 15, when it becomes fully operational. Around 2,000 passengers will be   prepared by acclaimed cartoonists. 

 Cial along with   is organizing a caricature programme for the passengers. "From March 11, we will start moving all our international operations to T3 terminal, as soon as possible. We expect the operations to be fully shifted to the new terminal before March 15," said Cial official.
 
 He said that caricature programme has been scheduled on March 15 so that maximum number of passengers flying through T3 terminal can benefit. 
 
 As per the plan, Kerala Cartoon Academy would be getting 15 of their most acclaimed cartoonist to T3 terminal to prepare 2,000 caricatures and gift it to passengers as a token.
 
 "Caricatures receive on the spot reactions. If people don't like it, they will throw it into the trash before boarding the flight and if they like it, they will keep it safely for most of their life," said  , secretary, Kerala Cartoon Academy.
 
 When KCA first approached Cial in February, it was suggested that the cartoonists would approach passengers outside the terminal. But soon authorities realized that it will not really win the passenger's heart as majority would be in a rush to get past the check-counter, immigration and security checks.
 
 "We realized that once the passengers are done with security checks, they have to wait for nearly an hour before they board the flight. So having the cartoonists drawing caricature at that time would be ideal," said Nath.
 
 The caricatures will be made for free and given to the passenger in a frame with Cial and Kerala Cartoon Academy logo's marked on it.
 
 Nath said that the programme at Cial will be a part of their promotion for the academy's second International Cartoon Day celebration, 'Cartoons Kochi 2017', which also celebrates "100 years of cartoons in Kerala".
 
 "The concept of cartoons in India was introduced by the British and overtime cartoonists from Kerala introduced several unique attributes to their cartoon and thereby making it their own form of cartoons. Today some of India's most prominent cartoonists are originally from Kerala. So, when passengers depart, they will be taking a unique bit of this state abroad. That's the big picture behind this programme," added Nath.
 
