PATNA: At least three more universities in Bihar – L N Mithila University, Tilka Manjhi Bhagalpur University and Magadh University – are likely to get new vice-chancellors and pro-vice-chancellors within a week. The panels of names recommended by the search committees of respective universities have already been submitted to the chancellor.

 Sources said the chancellor’s secretariat has already written to the principal secretary to the chief minister to hold consultations with the chancellor with regard to the appointment of VCs and pro-VCs from the panels submitted by the search committees. In the meantime, the chancellor may also have interaction with the candidates figuring in the panels submitted by the search committees.
 
 Earlier, the interaction of shortlisted applicants for the appointment of   and pro-VC of L N Mithila University with the search committee members was held on February 27. The search committee for Tilka Manjhi Bhagalpur University interacted with the shortlisted applicants on March 1. And, the shortlisted candidates for the appointment of VC and pro-VC of Magadh University interacted with the search committee on March 1 and 2.
 
 The chancellor has already appointed the VCs and pro-VCs of Veer Kunwar Singh University, Ara, Jai Prakash University, Chhapra, and BRA Bihar University, Muzaffarpur, in consultation with the state government. The process of appointment of VCs and pro-VCs in the remaining universities is in progress and all the universities are likely to get new incumbents soon.
 
 The interaction of shortlisted candidates for the appointment of VC and pro-VC of Maulana Mazharul Haq Arabic and Persian University with the search committee is scheduled for March 16. The search committee for Patna University will interact with the shortlisted applicants on March 24 and 25 and one for Nalanda Open University will interact with the shortlisted candidates on March 27. The search committee for B N Mandal University, Madhepura, will interact with the shortlisted candidates on April 16. However, no date for interaction of candidates for appointment of VC and pro-VC of Kameshwar Singh Darbhanga Sanskrit University has been fixed so far.
 
 The posts of VCs and pro-VCs in almost all the universities in the state fell vacant in the first week of February this year following the completion of three-year term by previous incumbents. These universities are presently being administered by the care taker VCs appointed by the chancellor.
 
 
