CHENNAI: The “gutka controversy” rocked the TN assembly with   legislators, led by  , waving the banned  , causing embarrassment to the  . Calling it breach of privilege, speaker P Dhanapal referred the issue to the Privileges Committee for action.

 The chief minister objected to the action of the opposition and said it was aimed at bringing disrepute to the state government. “How did you gain access to the banned products? Bringing them to the assembly was a crime. You should have complained to police, but your intention is to malign the government by deliberately bringing it into the House,” the CM said, strongly disapproving the action. Dhanapal said the members did not take permission from him before resorting to the act that amounted to breach of privilege.
 
 Participating in a debate on the concluding day of the session, DMK leader, M K Stalin sought to emphasise the point that the banned products were easily available. His MLAs got up from their seats and waved sachets. Finance minister   demanded that the speaker take strong action against the opposition members. “It is illegal to bring the products here. Cameras are recording your action,” the minister said. When the remarks of Stalin were expunged, he protested and walked out, accompanied by his MLAs.
 
 Palaniswami said the government was monitoring the manufacturers, and those trading in the banned products like ganja, pan masala and gutka, and arresting them during surprise checks. During 2013-17, a monitoring committee of various departments led by district collectors and commissioner of greater Chennai Corporation conducted raids and confiscated Rs 15.47crore worth banned substances weighing 546 tonnes and destroyed it later. “The government is keeping a constant vigil on the matter to ensure the banned products are not on sale,” the CM said.
 
 Later, Stalin told reporters that his party held a survey in the last few days and found evidences to prove the banned substances were available in various parts of the city. “We have pictures of women and children selling banned substances. But we were not allowed to raise the issue,” he said, alleging connivance of police officials.
 
