BENGALURU: Hosa Zoning Beda (`No to new zoning'). That's the strong message that Bengalureans sent to the government with regard to the recent draft notification issued by the urban development department on new zoning regulations.

 Several Resident Welfare Associations (RWAs) from different parts of the city, who met on Saturday, planned to send 1 lakh postcards to chief minister   opposing the draft notification and they will also urge all elected representatives to withdraw the controversial notification.
 
 The meet was organized by United Bengaluru and Citizens' Action Forum and the agenda was - `Attend this meeting if you wish to save your neighbourhood. Fight for your right'. The RWAs allege that the draft notification will transform residential neighbourhoods into market areas. The residents allege there was complete lack of transparency in making the draft regulations and the citizens were not consulted. NS Mukund, founder, Citizens' Action Forum, said a massive postcard campaign will be unleashed. “The process of citizen consultation has not happened at all. All that the government does should be for citizens. Why can't citizens be consulted first?
 
 The government has to make public all the objections raised with regard to draft zoning regulations and the action taken about these objections,“ said Mukund. He urged RWA representatives to protest in large numbers against the notification and make sure the government scraps it.
 
 “We believe that the regulations are illogical, bereft of any underlying merit and will destroy the tranquillity of residential areas in the city,“ said representatives of various RWAs.The residents are opposing the commercialization of residential areas proposed in the draft notification which says that any road with just 30ft width can have commercial activities.
 
 Saturday's meet will be followed by a mass signature campaign to stop the draft notification becoming a law.
 
 TIMES VIEW
 
 The writing is clear on FB walls, and social media is abuzz with the anger and anxiety of Bengaluru's citizens: Making the city one big commercial zone is a disastrous move. Introducing businesses on 30ft wide roads will bring in a host of problems, like traffic congestion, parking and garbage. City planners should realize their folly, and also keep in mind the   order on 40ft wide roads for commercial activities. With citizens uniting to oppose the new zoning regulations and ready to take their battle to court, it could cost the chief minister dearly in an election year.
 
