 is  ' big launch of the year. The show, which is backed by talented judges like  ,   and  , has an absolutely fresh concept. The singing reality show goes LIVE on air and the shortlisted contestants qualify to the next level with a majority of 70% voting from the Indian viewers. This format certainly is a step forward in giving boost to digital entertainment. Adding to what makes the show unique is that age is no bar, and there are no restrictions on the presentation of a musical act. It could be a solo or a group performance, it could be musical or lyrical. 
 
 Currently, the show is in its audition phase which is for about three weeks.
 
  
  
 The fact that singing is not limited to just solo acts but ranges from group acts to live bands. It helps in breaking monotony and comes as a breather. The contestants are selected from all over India and hence, there is lot of diverse talent that is showcased on stage. The viewers are more involved as they experience the thrill of voting live for a contestant. The contestants, so far, look promising. 
  
 Complimenting the grandeur of the stage and its setting, the three judges are perfectly chosen for their part. Rising Star is Diljit Dosanjh's debut on Television and it is great to see him well balanced in his opinion about the budding singers. If you notice close enough, there is a spring in his step as he is everywhere on the show, quite literally. Monali Thakur is spunky, witty and her play of words with Raghav adds to the fun. Both Diljit and Monali are visual treats. The third judge, Shankar Mahadevan, is the 'Guru' of them all. He is quite calm and exact in his judgment. 
  
 Coming to the hosts of the show, while Meiyang Chang is composed and friendly, Raghav Juyal is insane and silly as ever. Together. the two balance each other out and manage to entertain. 
  
 
 The show is a little slow, and could be more fast-paced, crisp in its presentation. Every contestant has a sad tale to tell. The viewers judgment gets coloured by such sob stories, isn't it?! Probably that could be the reason for every singer qualifying to the next round in the premiere episode. One would like to judge the talent of the contestants without such emotional blackmail. It is important to keep a check on how the candidates are projected on screen and keep objectivity alive for the audience to vote fairly. 
  
 One of its kind and first on Indian Television, Rising Star holds great promise. In the long run, its success depends on the quality of the singers and talent it will bring forth. Despite its flaws, we give it a thumbs up for doing something genuinely 'hatke'.
 
 
 
  
  
 
