AURANGABAD: The relatives of a 68-year-old female patient went on the rampage at the   here past Friday midnight when she had to be put on a life support system after suffering a stroke.

 Sajeda Begum had undergone hysterectomy at the hospital on March 27 and suffered a stroke a day later. 
 
 Hospital management claimed that her relatives went on the rampage soon after their consent was sought for moving her to a life-support system.
 
 The relatives shattered the glass panes of the door by repeatedly banging it against the wall. They also allegedly damaged an idol in a fit of rage. However, none of the hospital staff, including the doctors, were assaulted or manhandled.
 
 “We called up the police as the mob was becoming more aggressive. The patient’s relatives then shifted her to another private hospital,”  , owner of Jilla Hospital, said, adding that property worth Rs 1 lakh was damaged.
 
 Jilla said the patient had a long history of blood pressure and diabetes and was prone to developing health complications after the surgery. “The hysterectomy was postponed twice in the past as her vital body parameters were not under control. She had both coronary stenting and renal stenting. However, as her uterus-related problem was aggravating, we decided to go ahead with the operation as per consent of the patient and relatives,” he said. 
 
 When contacted, close relatives of Sajeda Begum accused the hospital of medical negligence. Sayyed Rizwan, Sajeda’s son-in-law, said, “She had walked into the hospital, but is lying unconscious today only because of negligence on the part of Jilla Hospital. She had even spoken with the doctors and sought concession for her surgery. It was due to the wrong procedures followed by the doctors that my mother-in-law is bed-ridden now,” he alleged.
 
 Rizwan claimed that the hospital officials were in fact completely in dark about Sajeda suffering a stroke. 
 
 “Earlier, we were told that she needed a minor surgery, but later informed that certain complications had developed and more money would be needed to treat her. We readily agreed to it. After surgery, she was conscious for a brief period. We sensed some abnormal body responses from her, following which investigations were done. They then declared that she had suffered a stroke,” he said. 
 
 Rizwan said he had no idea what his relatives did in the hospital as he was busy shifting the patient to MGM hospital. 
 
 Meanwhile, the Jinsi police have booked   and Aafreen Anjum and 10 to 15 others in connection with the vandalisation following a complaint from the hospital authorities. 
 
 Police have registered an offence under sections of 143 (unlawful assembly), 147 (rioting), 427 (mischief causing damage) and 295 (injuring or defiling place of worship with intent to insult the religion of any class) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and other relevant charges.
 
 Sajeda’s family said Jinsi police had refused to take their complaint against Jilla Hospital. “Another relative had gone to the police to file a complaint against the doctors. Instead of giving a patient ear, the police detained him. Police have been demanding the whereabouts of 15 relatives of the patient but are not taking any action against the doctors,” Shaikh Irshad, Sajeda’s brother, said.
 
 It may be noted that resident doctors working at government hospitals as well as private medicos recently went on a strike following a series of assaults on doctors, including an incident of manhandling an intern at a government hospital here.
 
  The   had supported the resident doctors and stayed away from work on March 23.
 
