In the latest episode of  , Ashok is seen giving gifts to Shagun and she wants to leave the place. But Ashok says he will stay with her at  's place and Shagun is happy.
 
  Raman getys angry with Ashok but he tells him that he will never let her memory come back. And he is happy that Raman is being blamed for Mani's murder.
  
  Ashok comes to stay with the Bhallas.
  
  An angry Raman tells   how Ashok has come to stay with them, this is when Ishita says he cannot stay at their place.
  
  Ishita is about to enter the Bhalla mansion when Bala enters and just then Ishita walks out wearing churidar suit to everyone's surprise. Raman is reminisced of their past, the time when they got married.
  
  Ishita explains the reason why she is wearing the churidar suit and reminds him that they have to deal with the situation patiently.
  
  Ishita says she will have to get back into Bhalla house and how she plans to enter the house and that she needs everyone's help in this.
  
  She calls up her mother-in-law and tells her the plan.
  
  Ishita's mother is worried that she will not be able to help in the plan.
  
  
 
  
  Shagun and Ashok are seen talking to each other this is when Ishita and her parents begin with the plan. Shagun comes looking worried.
  
  Ishita tries to pacify her parents and then they ask her to leave their house. This is when Ishita starts crying and then Bhallas take her home as per their plan.
  
  Shagun doesn't like the idea of Ishita staying in her home. Santoshi gets Ishita inside their house and tells everyone she will stay here.
  
  Shagun suddenly stops Ishita and tells her that she has met her before. Ishita tells Shagun that she is a dentist.
  
  Ashok underatands their plan but is unable to sense anything.
  
  Ishita then checks Shagun's BP and tells her that she has High BP. Ashok then walks in and tells Ishita that Shagun is unwell.
  
  Ishita closes the door as soon as Ashok leaves and asks Shagun about Ashok. She says people are talking that her boyfriend is staying at her ex husband's place.
  
  Shagun says she doesn’t care but Ishita manages to convince Shagun to keep distance from Ashok to test his loyalty. Shagun agrees to it and says he can't share a room with her.
  
  Keep watching this space for all the updates.
