ROHTAK: The Jat land, which often makes headlines for skewed child sex ratio and honour killing incidents, was once known for a love story that happened around 380 years ago.

 The   (Bua’s pond) located in Jhajjar town on   road is a proof of the legendary love story of a girl Bua and a youth Hasan where both the lovers were buried on the edge of the pond.
 
 The memorial was built by the girl for immortalizing her lover’s memory where she was also buried later.
 
 Though the memorial was declared a protected site by Archaeological Survey of India ( ) and renovated by Jhajjar district administration, the material used during renovation came under criticism after it faded away, upsetting the local population striving to maintain the heritage.
 
 According to the legend, the love bloomed between a high-class girl named Bua, daughter of Mustafa Khan, a noble with the ruler of Jhajjar who were known as Kalals, and a poor woodcutter of the town in 1635. Bua, a teenager, was beautiful and braveheart who used to go for horse riding in the evening. One evening she encountered a tiger in the adjoining jungle. Though she fought the tiger, she sustained injuries and shouted for help. Alarmed at the girl’s shrieks, Hasan Khan, a strongly built young man, rushed to the spot and killed the beast with a sharp-edged weapon.
 
 Impressed by Hasan, Bua fell in love with him. Hasan also took the injured Bua to her palace where the indebted family offered him to stay for a night. In return of the gratitude, Bua’s parents wanted to honour him with gifts, but he expressed his wish to marry their daughter.
 
 Unwillingly, parents agreed and both the lovers started meeting at a pond on the outskirts of the town.
 
 It is said that Mustafa Khan who thought Hasan as mismatch for his daughter due to his poverty sent him to a battle as a soldier.
 
 During the war, Hasan was killed. Heartbroken Bua performed her lover’s last rites near the same pond, where the duo used to meet.
 
 She also raised a tomb in the memory of Hasan near his burial and also constructed a pond. Later, when she died after some years, people of the town buried her beside her lover.
 
 Yashpal Gulia, a historian who is penning a book on the history of Jhajjar starting from 1192 to 1947, said the pond and tomb were the authentic proofs of the love saga of Bua and Hasan. It is the single monument in Haryana telling about an affair.
 
 Gulia said that despite the fact that the ‘Bua ka Talab’ is an ASI protected site, it is lying in a neglected state.
 
 
