CHENNAI: The state power utility,   (Tangedco), will set up its first ever super thermal power plant with 800MW capacity in north Chennai with financial assistance from the Rural Electrification Corporation (REC).

 The REC has sanctioned Rs 6,890 crore to Tangedco to set up the power plant and two substations of 765KV and 400KV capacity in and around Chennai. The funding is in the form of a loan, repayable in 20 years. The unit will be the first of its kind in Tamil Nadu as at present only 600MW thermal units are functioning in the state.
 
 The new thermal unit will come up at north Chennai, which already houses several thermal units of varying capacities. “This is stage III of the thermal project in north Chennai and the contract has been awarded to  . We will sign a formal agreement with REC shortly , but the corporation has already sanctioned the amount to Tangedco and Tantransco,“ a senior Tangedco official said.
 
 REC sources said the entity would financially support the companies in the coming years not only in transmission and distribution projects, but also in the upcoming Udangudi supercritical thermal power project. Further, it will support in other renewable energy , energy conservation, smart grid and automation of power projects in the state.
 
 The new unit will alone cost Rs 6,376 cr and is expected to be commissioned in 2019. The remaining loan amount would be used for setting up of substations to evacuate power generated by the 800MW plant.
 
 Coal supply to the new unit will be mostly from coal mines within the country . “Earlier, coal imported from Indonesia via Ennore and Tuticorin ports was being used by all thermal units of Tangedco. But now, high quality coal is available from Singareni at much lower price.
 
 Singareni will supply coal to the new plant as well. “At present we are paying $60 per tonne, but from February, the price will be $90 per tonne. It is advantageous for us to use indigenous coal,“ he said.
 
 Meanwhile, REC has also extended financial assistance of Rs 14.2 crore to   (IIM), Trichy for installation of 2MW   (SPV) in various locations on the campus.The main objective of the project is to reduce grid energy consumption for achieving a cleaner community and to protect the environment by reducing carbon dioxide emission.The memorandum of agreement was signed by REC and IIM-Trichy in New Delhi. 
 
