Pune: The Bombay High Court has held the state government's acquisition of a 1.85 hectare of land at Thergaon for a new township at   in 1986 as “lapsed”.

 In a ruling on March 8, the bench of Chief Justice Manjula Chellur and Justice G S Kulkarni upheld the petitioners' contention that the government had neither taken possession of the land after declaring a compensation award for its acquisition under the old Land Acquisition Act of 1894 nor had it paid the compensation to them.
 
 The petitioners had pointed out that the award was passed five years or more before the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013, came into force. As a result, the provisions for declaration of such land acquisition as lapsed under Section 24 (2) of the new Act of 2013 were applicable, they argued. The section deals with declaration of land acquisition as lapsed under specific conditions.
 
 The land mentioned in the petition comprises of two agricultural plots of 1.56 hectare and 0.29 hectare, all of which were owned together by 10 persons who filed the petition. It was among the various piece and parcel of lands which were acquired by the state for the Pimpri Chinchwad New Town Development Authority (PCNTDA) project.
 
 The bench clarified, “The acquisition would stand lapsed only in relation to the lands subject matter of the petition and no adjudication is made regarding the legality and validity of the acquisition of other lands for which the compensation award is passed.” It further ruled that the government can initiate fresh acquisition process for the land under the Act of 2013.
 
 Petitioners’ lawyer Chaitanya Nikte told TOI on Wednesday, "The order means the ownership of the land now stands legally restored with the petitioners. The PCNTDA was, so far, a de facto owner of the land by virtue of the notification and compensation award passed under the old Land Acquisition Act, 1994.”
 
 “If the PCNTDA exercises the option of fresh acquisition, it will have to do so under the new Act of 2013. The same recognizes the prevailing market price of land as a baseline and provides for a compensation award that is 1.5 times more than the prevailing market price in an urban area, besides transfer of development rights (TDR) and other reliefs,” said Nikte.
 
 When contacted, PCNTDA’s chief executive officer   Khadke said, “We have already initiated the process for filing a special leave petition (SLP) in the   against the HC order. Our legal team is working on the same.”
 
 Khadke said, “Close to 35 cases involving the lands acquired for PCNTDA project were being dealt with. The courts have passed orders in five to six of these matters and our legal advisors are working on the SLP which will be filed soon in the apex court.”
 
 The PCNTDA had argued, among other things, that it could not take possession of the land in view of a status quo ordered by the high court on January 8, 2007, in relation to the lands mentioned in a writ petition filed by one of the land owners. The status quo is in operation even today as the petition was admitted and is pending final hearing.
 
 The bench, however, pointed out that the status quo was in relation to possession but, there was no stay on the compensation award passed in September 1986 and the respondents (government, PCNTDA) was not restrained from depositing the compensation amount in a civil court as the law would require.
 
 
