As the region goes to poll on March 4, all doesn't seem well for BJP in Gorakhpur.

 City BJP MLA   is campaigt ning all alone. Pitted against him is SP-Congress alliance candidate from Congress Rana Rahul Singh. What is being debated here is the fact that though local BJP MP   had introduced Agrawal into politics and ensured his t victory in 2002 assembly election on a Hindu Mahasabha ticket against BJP's Shiv Pratap Shukla, the wily parliamentarian is keeping away from campaigning this time.
 
 Agrawal, however, claims to have started a new trend in local politics by not holding any corner meeting of star campaigners in a bid to show case “politics of values“. But not everyone agrees. Observers claim that a section of local BJP leaders are not happy with Agrawal because of his style of working, while others say that he is dreaming too big after successfully completing three terms as an MLA.
 
 BJP chief  , meanwhile, will hold a road show along with Adityanath on Wednesday. Interestingly, although the show will begin in Gorakhpur from Town Hall, it will mostly travel in rural areas.
 
 In Gorakhpur (rural), once Yogi's close confidant, Vijay Bahadur Yadav is now an SP candidate pitted against another Yogi protegee Vipin Singh.To complicate the matters, Yadav has been heard criticising Adityanath during campaigning. Journalist   says that since the past many years, Adityanath has been striving to ensure that he remains at the helm of east UP politics. Obviously, this has not gone down well with others.“The line is so thin between the politician Adityanath and the priest Mahant Yogi Adityanath that even his political rivals succumb to his priest clout,“ Singh adds.
 
 The then MLA Shiv Prapta Shukla, after parting ways with Adityanath the politician, had to face drubbing at the hands of Agrawal, only due to the clout priest Adityanath enjoys in the area. Shukla was a BJP candidate and then prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee had campaigned for him. This is just one example.
 
 Yogi had disputes with BJP leadership almost during every election since 2002, though the tussle ended in a compromise.
 
