VADODARA: A rebellion is brewing in Vadodara unit of National Students’ Union of India (NSUI) - the Congress-backed student outfit - one of the strongest units of NSUI in Gujarat. 

 A day after Zuber Khan Pathan got elected as new president of   unit, the entire NSUI team of M S University campus, including   (MSUSU) general secretary (GS) Hitesh Batra, MSUSU vice-president (VP) Priyanka Patel along with faculty representatives and class representatives submitted their resignations from the student outfit. 
 
 The rebel group claimed that as many as 4,000 member students have submitted their resignations to register their protest against the alleged malpractices adopted during the election process. Along with them NSUI’s immediate past president Hitesh Desai, Jesinh Desai, who had got elected as vice-president and Devang Thakore, who had got elected as general secretary, too submitted their resignations. 
 
 It was on Saturday that elections for the new team of NSUI were held at Fatehgunj-based  . Of the 128 registered voters, 111 delegates had cast their votes. 
 
 While Pathan got elected as president with 64 votes, his rival candidate Jesing got elected as vice-president with 44 votes. 
 
 Even the elections for the posts had witnessed ruckus between the two camps supporting Pathan and Jesing. Jesing’s supporters had alleged that even as they had registered thousands of students as members of the outfit ahead of the polls, the registrations were intentionally rejected. 
 
 They alleged that their representations before the city, the state and the central units of   were ignored. They had earlier made representations before   president Bharat Solanki and NSUI’s national president Amrita Dhawan. 
 
 “A senior leader Shahnawaz Shaikh, the all India general secretary of NSUI, was openly supporting Pathan during the elections. We were not given proper hearing even as we had raised the issue of malpractices time and again,” said Batra, adding that the election process wasn’t fair. 
 
 “We were intentionally misguided throughout the poll process. Earlier, we were told that we can register students as members on the portal through mobile phones as well. But later they were rejected so that our votes reduced,” he said.
 
 It is worth mentioning here that in September 2013, MSU had suspended Zuber Pathan, the then Faculty of Arts student, who was accused of harassing a girl student on the campus.
 
  Professor Yogesh Singh, the then vice-chancellor of MSU, had also banned his entry into the campus. 
 
