 is a busy man. Armed with a presentation on  , he has been shuttling from one school and college to another in the last one month, teaching traffic rules, signs, driving techniques and first aid to the students in Coimbatore. “There’s not a single day when you don’t come across a story on road accident in the newspaper. It’s quite disturbing. In 2015, Tamil Nadu reported the highest number of road accidents, according to a report by the Ministry of Road Transport & Highways. Data also says that around 80 per cent of these accidents are caused by valid license holders. This really needed to be addressed and the best way was to start young. That’s why I decided to begin with schools and colleges. A lot of people want to do something for the betterment of the society, but at the same time, do not want to risk their career. I didn’t want to complain about the situation and hence, got into the act,” says Ramasubramanian.

 It all began over a clause in the Karnataka Motor Vehicles Act that levied lifetime tax on vehicles from other States if they remained in Karnataka beyond 30 days. “I was a resident of Bengaluru then and decided to fight the case along with my friend Waseem Memom. We ran from pillar to post, and finally won the case. We had already gathered support from many during that period and we wanted the movement to continue. We decided to scale up our work and decided to address road safety at the grassroots level.”
 
 And soon, Ramasubramanian gave up his cushy job in finance in Bengaluru and moved to his hometown Coimbatore to teach road safety to students. “I knew I was taking a huge risk, nevertheless, I decided to go ahead with the initiative. I have been pumping my own money into my initiatives. We have started crowd-sourcing as well.” 
 
 Ramasubramanian calls driving a ‘life skill’. “It’s a skill you will make use of until your last day on earth. Therefore, it’s important to not only master it, but, also opt for safe driving. Though one can limit wrong road behavior by penalizing heavy fines, it will not work in the long run. It’s the mindset of the people that has to change. My stint with driving began, when I used to drive the car without my father’s knowledge. Neither was my driving skills scrutinized strictly by the RTO. Even I started that way.”
 
 Ramasubramanian adds that the driving schools in the country also play a crucial role in bad road behaviour. “They take 3 to 4 students at a time and let them drive for few minutes each. They hardly teach them road safety or traffic rules. In countries like Vietnam and Australia, there are chapters dedicated to road safety in the curriculum. Why can’t we follow suit?”
 
 Majority of the sessions conducted by him are free-of-cost. “I need to earn my bread and butter, too. But, whenever I am told that a certain group cannot afford to spend on a session, I conduct classes free of cost.” Ramasubramanian has broken his agenda into small points. “It’s difficult to address every issue in traffic at the same time. I’m gradually going to explore areas like lane discipline, jumping signals, speeding, blocking free left, misusing one-way.”
 
 The road safety   is now working on an app called Emergency Road Responder that will help accident victims. “An accident victim can alert people in the neighborhood through the app for timely assistance. It’s likely to be ready in 6 months. I am also conducting campaigns on organ donations and Samaritan laws. Most of the passers-by do not take an accident victim to hospital as they are afraid that they will embroiled in a police case and legal tangles. Hence, it’s important that they understand the procedure.” As for improved road discipline, he believes that stringent licensing system and rating of driving schools would help the cause.
 
 Apart from Coimbatore, the NGO is planning to conduct road safety sessions in Kochi and Bengaluru. “We want to reach out to as many cities as possible. We will seek the help of local residents from the group to address people in the region. We want India to become a safe place to drive.”
 
