Aditi Arya, fbb Femina   World 2015, got a chance to visit her home in Gurgaon recently and was surprised that every time she visits, the city seems to have changed. 

 “I get to visit Gurgaon less now, since I am really busy with work. I recently finished working on my debut Telugu film and am now in Mumbai for shoots and other work. I even had to drop out of my MBA course this year as I have so much on my plate already. But I will definitely complete it at some point. I am even inactive on social media. So when I am busy with so much work, coming to Gurgaon, even if it is for a day or two, is a welcome change. It is surprising how so many things change each time I visit the city. Now, even the name of city has changed from Gurgaon to  . But I can never call Gurgaon with its new name. For me, it will always be Gurgaon, all my growing up memories are associated with Gurgaon,” she says. Aditi adds that during her growing up years, there were few places to hang out in, but now, the city has some of the best restaurants in NCR.
 
 When I was growing up, there were very few pockets in the city to chill, but now Gurgaon has so many options and all of them are flourishing. Cyber Hub is such a cool place to be at,” adds Aditi.
 
 As someone who has grown up in Gurgaon, Aditi feels that the city should be safe for women to commute at any time of the day. “I remember, I had to take 100 permissions before my parents would let me use public transport when I was growing up in Gurgaon. Being an independent teenager, it really bothered me. It is very easy for people to say that girls should not be stepping out at night or should not be using cabs, but that is not a solution. For women, travelling in NCR on their own is a huge problem, and needs to change. It is not just infrastructure that needs to change, but even people should change their attitude and perception about women and their safety. Why is it that we see more cases related to women’s safety in the north as compared to south India? It really annoys me that people think that they can suppress women easily. Men and boys should be told at their homes first how to respect women,” she says.
 
 .
 
 
 
 
