MADURAI:The   being opposed by many is not helping the cause of checking environmental pollution either. The uncertainty and confusion over the new taxing system have kept thousands of rag pickers off the roads as their daily wages have taken a hit. These are the people who were cleaning the Madurai streets of detrimental plastics.

 Till date they had been paying value added tax of five per cent, but now the steep hike of 18 per cent   them to meet the cost by reducing daily wages. There are over 300 units in Madurai which buy plastics from rag pickers and recycle them every day. 
 
 "It was an industry which was going like clockwork until   and things came to a standstill,’’ said the co-ordinator of Madurai Old Plastic Traders Federation S P R Selvan. “It maybe a business, but it is also a social service. We are responsible for the removal of tonnes of plastics which would otherwise go into the soil and affect water seepage and pollute the environment,’’ he said. Plans are afoot to bring three associations of old plastic traders under one banner to discuss and meet the challenges that GST had put before them.
 
 Each of the recycling units has about 20 to 30 workers who segregate the non-degradable wastes that are brought by scrap dealers and rag pickers. The women workers are paid a daily wage of Rs 100 to Rs 120 while the men who also load the plastics get about Rs 500. Those who pick the   from the plots where people dump get about Rs 20 for a kilogram. But ever since GST came into existence, the small traders have been paying them only Rs 10 a kilogram, which has effected them very badly. 
 
 "Many of the shops downed shutters on Monday and Tuesday, because they were unsure of how much to pay the people who supplied the plastics. The livelihood of many daily wagers has been affected,’’ he said. These old plastic dealers collect about 180 tonnes of plastic waste a day half of which is recycled. "Many   manufacturers mix this recycled plastics with their products and we sell a kilogram of recycled plastic for Rs 40,’’ said Pandi, a trader.
 
 In Madurai alone, over 10,000 workers, most of them earning daily wages, are dependent on the industry which gets rid of the plastics in a smoke-free environment-friendly manner. If they were not removed, people would try to burn them. Hence the government should come forward to cut the GST, they said in their representation to the state finance Minister. 
 
