KOCHI: After the high court deferred   hearing to March 2, police tightened surveillance in the city after receiving information that the absconding goon was planning to surrender in a court in Ernakulum. Sunil Kumar alias   ­ the prime accused in the alleged rape of an actor in Kochi ­ has been on the run for four days.

 Police surveillance was spotted in all major courts in Ernakulum, including the ones in Aluva and Perumbavoor, on Tuesday as police waited for Sunil to appear.Though there were rumours that the accused were heading towards Ernakulum, they were not arrested when the edition was sent to print.
 
 Now, police are trying to locate the women with whom he shared a relationship. Police sources said that Sunil maintained relationship with two women and they would be quizzed to unearth leads. “Sunil used to target married women. He used to meet them while working as a private bus employee and maintained contact with them,“ said police.
 
 On Monday night, police arrested Manikandan, another accused in the case, from Palakkad. Manikandan had visited a lawyer along with Sunil and Vigeesh on Saturday night. The trio, according to the lawyer, had left his home in Koratty around 9pm in a car. Sources said the accused was likely to surrender as their possible hideouts would have been compromised with the arrest of Manikandan.
 
 They added that Manikandan had given a statement that he was driving the car when the   happened. “He has given a statement that he went his way after a fight over money at their hideout,“ said police.
 
 Police said that the accused were staying near Coimbatore in a bid to surrender in court. “Teams led by senior officers are camping in different areas of the state for a possible arrest,“ said police.
 
 Earlier, a police team had almost nabbed the accused near Ambalappuzha. On Monday, police questioned Anwar who reportedly helped Sunil escape after giving him some money. Police are trying to nail Sunil with mobile phone records. Police have already collected contact details of those who were in constant touch with Sunil.
 
