Jaisalmer: A jawan of Border Security Force ( ) deployed in Jaisalmer was arrested on Wednesday night for allegedly murdering his wife four days ago.

 According to Jodhpur police, the jawan was married six years ago. The jawan and his family members were harassing her for dowry. It is also alleged that the jawan also forced her to abort recently, police said.
 
 According to additional commissioner of police (ACP), west, Kamal Singh Tanwar, the deceased Durga Kanwar, a resident of Jodhpur, was married to one Dasrath Singh 2011. The deceased’s brother Mohan Singh has lodged a complaint in the police station in which he stated that Dasrath was harassing his sister for dowry since long. Recently, Kamal had come to her parent’s house and Dasrath was pressuring her parents to send her back soon, he said.
 
 Tanwar said that her brother stated in the complaint that Dasrath had come to Jodhpur on 15 days leave and took her wife back on July 22. They left for home and during the journey, the car caught fire in which both sustained minor burn injuries. However, the incident raised suspicion, he said.
 
 In the report, it was said that both reached Jodhpur had food and later Dasrath slept with his parents in drawing room, while his wife slept in her room. In the meantime, at around 2.30am, husband and wife had a fight and later Dasrath told his parents that kanwar’s health got deteriorated and when other people of the colony and her family members reached, she was found dead.
 
 Tanwar said, family members of the deceased reached on July 23 and informed the police. A case was lodged under Section 304B and investigation was started. When the post-mortem of the body was done on July 24 by the medical board, the report stated that Kanwar died due to pressure on nose and mouth and died of suffocation and there were nine injury marks on her body and even a tooth was broken, he said.
 
 Later, during probe, Dasrath confessed to have murdered his wife. Police have arrested him under Section 302 and took remand by producing him in the court.
 
 
