BHOPAL: Realising power and reach of social media, the BJP asked its leaders to get ready for a social media war in political fight against it rivals in forthcoming assembly and  . Sources said the BJP is contemplating a vigorous use of   through party workers in the wake of launch of a web channel by the  , recently.

 “BJP emerged victorious in last Lok Sabha elections because of strong social media network. It was Prime Minister Narendra Modi and party president Amit Shah, who strategically planned to reach the last man of the society sensing power of social media,” BJP state head Nandkumar Singh Chauhan told workers addressing a social media training workshop, on Monday.
 
 He said workers need to show their presence, communicate with public and launch awareness through WhatsApp, Facebook, Twitter and other modes of social media. It was social media network, which worked in favour of BJP during recently held assembly election in five states, including Uttar Pradesh. “BJP-led governments at the Centre and states covered remote areas of the country through mobile phone connectivity and Internet network. Social media has overtaken traditional print and TV media in a short span of time. Coming days would be crucial for political workers to play an important role,” said Nandkumar Singh.
 
 The BJP chief also cited role played by social media during presidential elections in the United States where Donald Trump emerged winner against so-called popular Hillary Clinton. He said taking help of social networking sites, workers should highlight government schemes, party programmes in favour of public and interact with young voters to know their problems. A regular communication alone could connect them with people, he said.
 
 During workshop, BJP state IT and social media in-charge Shivraj Dabi demonstrated to download popular apps, including those of chief minister and senior party leaders and how to use them for public. Dabi said, social media workshops would be held at division and district level, where a new generation of cyber experts will emerge within the party.
 
 “The experiment will popularise party’s views in the state soon,” he said.
 
