UDAIPUR: A 3.4 km   lying unutilized for nearly two years on the panoramic location of   along NH-8 would soon be turned into a   With a budget of Rs 160 lakh recently sanctioned by the ministry of forest and environment under the CAMPA Yojana, the state forest department has embarked upon the project ‘Phoolon Ki Ghati’ which is estimated to be completed in six months. Four flower valleys were proposed to be developed in Rajasthan with the CAMPA fund. Udaipur has taken the lead in its implementation. 

 “Under the project, 80 hectares of area falling in the ghat section would be covered with flowering plants under the urban forestry scheme (nagar van udyan). With the development of the flower valley, Chirwa section would turn into a tourist circuit with the Mewar Biodiversity Park and Purohiton ka Talaab situated in the vicinity,” Om Prakash Sharma, project incharge and deputy conservator of forest told TOI. 
 
 Apart from the Central fund, 20% of the cost would be borne by state government. Chirwa road was the main gateway to Udaipur for commuters from Nathdwara. The ghat section, which is narrow and curvy, offers a breathtaking view of natural forest and Aravalli hills, especially during the monsoon season. 
 
 The stretch has had a fearsome reputation owing to the large number of accidents and long traffic jams. However, with the new 4-lane road comprising twin tunnels becoming operational last year, the old road had been abandoned and is lying useless since. 
 
 “We thought of utilizing the wasteland for aesthetic as well as environmental purpose. Under the programme, we would undertake massive plantation of 10,000 indigenous flowering plants in six months. It may take 2-3 years for the valley to bloom with colours,” Sharma said.
 
 Besides plantation, the forest department would also take up restoration work at the Heritage Gate on the ghat. A cafeteria would be built near the gate with amenities and facilities for the visitors. 
 
 “It will be a complete project focusing on technical details like soil moisture conservation, percolation, check dams, etc., to maintain greenery throughout the year. The forest protection committee would be responsible for the upkeep and maintenance of the area and will generate revenue through adventure sports and other activities,” the officer said. 
 
 Six spots have been identified on the ghat for the visitors to enjoy the panoramic view during their trip. Benches and shades would be installed. A watch tower is also proposed.
 
 pics- A cafeteria would be built at the   on the Chirwa Ghat
 
 - the panoramic view of the twisty Chirwa ghat section
 
 
