 have adopted a markedly different approach from last season when the new owners had little time on hand before the start of Indian Super League ( ). President and co-owner   explains why he believes his team will do far better than last season when they finished at the bottom of the league ladder.
 
  
 
  This year is about laying the foundation to what you can expect from us for the next 10 years. We are now focusing on building a good Indian squad, identifying the best available Goan talent and ensuring that we do things on a budget. There is no pressure to do very big name signings. It’s not helping Goan   or Indian football. We (would) rather invest that money in developing young talent. We are on the right track, investing in the reserve team and also in the process of building facilities. We want to start (preparing) early this season (for the ISL). We want to have a longer pre-season, and also train here.
  
  
 
  We are blessed with many opportunities. We believe Goa can become a footballing powerhouse, not just for India but for Asia, then the world. We believe in developing the ecosystem of the entire state and not just FC Goa. Whatever is good for the state will eventually be good for FC Goa. One of the shortfalls of Goan football in the past has been too much of infighting. We are trying to take a slightly agnostic approach and I think through our actions over the next couple of months, you will see this. We have touched base with 2,000 kids in our grassroot programme. We want to increase that to at least 8,000 kids. We want to ensure that a six-year-old will be able to see a clear pathway. FC Goa will be the first franchise to complete the pyramid that everyone talks about. We will have that this year.
  
  
 
  It’s more strategic rather than focusing on the best. It’s not like we will spend whatever money it takes to sign players. If people are not going to be reasonable, we won’t sign. We are providing players with longer contracts. We are providing them with security. In signing Liston, for example, we are investing; hopefully, Liston will play for us for the next 10 years.
  
  
 
  We have gone through a very exhaustive list of potential candidates. We are debating several names. In fact during my last trip to Europe, I met several people but we will not make a decision until we know the league guidelines.
  
  
 
  We want someone who can build the team. We don’t want to bring in someone who has a completely different approach. Also, we don’t want too much of support staff with the coach. Of course, there will be an assistant (coach) and support staff but we want them to work with our technical team, which we believe is as good as it gets in India.
  
  
 
  The longer the league and more competition, the better it is for Indian football. In fact, with all our plans, we are counting on an extended league. The whole philosophy behind the developmental squad was to have the team playing together for a year. A longer league will help Indian football. You will see much better football.
