MUMBAI: The   on Tuesday declined to grant relief to   vice-chairman   who was arrested in May in an alleged   case. 

 A division bench of   and   rejected Mittal’s plea to transfer the criminal case from   to Mumbai. The court further upheld a special CBI judge order granting transit remand to take Mittal to Visakhapatnam so that he can be produced before a local court hearing the case. 
 
 “We find that there is no mala fide intention in registration of   at Visakhapatnam. It is also not possible to hold that no part of the offence took place (in that city),” said the judges. “Looking at from any angle, we are convinced that the investigating agency at Visakhapatnam has jurisdiction to investigate the said case and therefore, the FIR should not be transferred to Mumbai. Consequently, we also hold that the transit remand order does not suffer from illegality or impropriety and therefore does not call for any interference,” added the bench.
 
 Mittal was arrested on May 3, along with five others, including income tax commissioner (appeals)  . The FIR alleges that Rajendra Prasad sought and received a bribe of Rs 1.71 crore to pass an order in the I-T Mumbai appeals department in favour of Balaji Trust, that is backed by Essar Group. 
 
 The bribe was collected by a person in Mumbai and sent to his relative, a real estate agent. The agent subsequently handed over a part of the bribe amount to Rajendra Prasad, who was holidaying in his family home in Visakhapatnam. The CBI laid a trap and arrested Rajendra Prasad while receiving the money.
 
 Mittal’s lawyers contended that the alleged transaction had taken place in Mumbai. It was only the utilisation of the money that occurred in Visakhapatnam where the amount was handed over to Rajendra Prasad, they claimed and questioned the jurisdiction of the CBI and the court at Visakhapatnam to hear the case. Advocate Hiten Venegaonkar, counsel for the CBI, pointed out that since the case was of illegal gratification involving a public servant, the accused had been charged under the Prevention of Corruption Act. 
 
 The HC said that it did not agree with Mittal’s lawyers that the acceptance of the money did not take place in Visakhapatnam. “We are of the opinion that when the public servant actually took physical delivery of the part of the bribe amount (in Visakhapatnam), he had clearly obtained a valuable thing or pecuniary advantage,” said the HC, while dismissing Mittal’s petition.
 
 
