PUNE:   working in the field of   feel stricter enforcement of the   and a   against it are the only way to check the malaise of drunk driving.

 A day after the city's traffic police recorded 573 drunk driving cases on New Year's Eve against 353 in 2015 (a 62% increase), experts tackling the issue said it should be tackled from all ends to change the attitude of citizens from the tendency to take the law in their hands while simultaneously endangering their lives as well as those of other road users.
 
 Internationally , stricter and more visible enforcement had emerged as the most successful way of tackling the problem of drunk driving, said Saji Cherian, director (operations), Save Life Foundation. “The country needs a much stronger law and an equally strict enforcement.Globally , calibrated breath analysers are used to catch and punish offenders,“ he said.
 
 Citing the example of Delhi, where relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code are applied against the drunk drivers, Cherian said, “When people have the fear of their one mistake permanently entering into their record as a crime, they tend to be careful to not to break rules.“
 
 A drunk driver was like a live bomb on the road, said Prince Singhal, an activist as well as a road safety expert and the founder of the nationwide   (CADD). He pointed out that the total number of people caught was usually just a fraction of the actual number of those taking the risk of driving after drinking.
 
 “Thousands of innocent lives are lost every year because someone drove in an inebriated state. We need to make the enforcement into a public movement and catch the offenders at every step. Enforcement need not be restricted to just festivals. Rather, it should happen every day and at all places, even at paan shops and community centres.Drunk driving should be a nonbailable offence and the person caught for it should be put behind bars, shamed in public and even stripped of his social benefits, among others. The fear needs to be built in the mind of people,“ he said.
 
 People also must fear the punishment they could invite by driving drunk, pointed out Rhishikesh Ganu, an advocate regularly dealing with cases of road and traffic rules. “ At present, there is nothing to deter people from taking the law in their hands. If parameters are set about the kind of monetary compensation has to be paid in case someone gets seriously injured, or worse loses life because of one mistake by the drunk driver, it would reduce the number of those taking the risk,“ he said.
 
 Pravin Mundhe, the deputy commissioner of police (traffic), agreed to take up the cause on a greater scale. “Our awareness campaign helped spread the message of strict action on New Year's Eve. We were also happy about the tie-ups that hotels, bars and restaurants had with taxi companies. In the coming days, especially with Road Safety Week around the corner, we shall be initiating a lot of awareness campaigns to discourage drunk driving,“ he said.
 
 
