BENGALURU: Want prasadam (religious offering)? Get your own container or cup your hands. Plastic or paper bowls and cups are a strict no-no at   temple at Kalyan Nagar in northeast Bengaluru, which has almost become a zerowaste zone since June 2016.

 The temple that sees over 500 visitors a day has effectively implemented the solid waste management system.It mixes no waste. Wet waste, including the flower offerings and dried leaves from 20-odd trees on its premises goes to the compost unit. Plastic and paper waste, if any , get separately collected in a bin which will be collected by the   staff once in 4-5 days. No litter, no garbage. Hardly anything goes to landfills from this temple.
 
 The resolution to instal compost units was taken by the Trust after heaps of trash started piling up in front of the temple, waiting to be picked up by pourakarmikas.“They were days when garbage would pile up in front of the temple awaiting clearance that's when we decided to reduce the amount of waste generated. We banned use of plastic and paper cups in distributing prasadam. `If you want prasadam, get your own container' is the rule.
 
 Any change faces resistance and this initiative was not an exception. But we were firm on our stand. A man even fought with us when we refused to give him prasadam without containers. However, he visited the temple with a steel box the very next week.The message was taken well,“ says Ashok Betraj, one of the temple trustees.
 
 The temple draws many visitors during Sankastachauti and Satyanarayana puja observed every month.“The temple used to see huge piles of garbage during these days. Now that we don't use any container, there's no waste,“ says Ashok.
 
 
  
 
 Ballu Mahan, supervisor, says the temple offers annadana (free meal) every Saturday to over 600-800 people. “We use melamine plates donated by philanthropists and hence, no mess,“ he adds.
 
 According to priest Maruthi Bhat, the temple is spreading a message to society by keeping its premises clean. “Once understood, the public follow the practice,“ he adds.
 
 “We are happy to share our experience with any institution that wants to replicate this model,“ says Anupama Harish, Ashok's sister who played a key role in making the temple waste free.
 
 
 
 
 The temple has stopped accepting milk sachets that the devotes bring in for abhisheka. “The temple needs 6-7 litres of milk every day for abisheka and we get cow milk from a nearby farmer. Public can contribute to this by donating money , but can't offer milk in plastic sachets,“ says Ashok. The temple bears a board stating the same. How does it work?
 
 Each of the five leaf compost units can carry two truck loads of green waste. First, a layer of microorganism-rich substance is spread at the bottom of the unit atop which wet waste such as flowers, tulsi garlands, leaves, food waste and leafy plates used for serving food is placed inside the compost ring mesh. “The size reduces during composting.Every week, we spray an effective microorganism solution and microbial blocks for enriching the compost,“ says Vasuki Iyengar, director of Shudh-Labh, who provided technical support to the temple in installing the units. The aerobic system of composting takes over nine months for the entire cycle to yield fine compost. The five mesh compost units here are not yet full though they were installed almost a year ago.
 
