KOCHI: In view of heavy rains and possibility of landslides across Kerala, the State Emergency Operations Centre (SEOC) has issued alert to all districts. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has declared a holiday for all schools across the state on Monday due to the heavy to very heavy rains that wreaked havoc in many parts of Kerala. He has directed the disaster management teams to be on alert for rescue and rehabilitation measures in landslide and flood prone areas. 

 The rains have been particularly heavy in central and north Kerala. Northern Kerala, which has already witnessed heavy rains, is expected to get more spells of rains on Monday too.
  
 Entire state has been advised to declare holidays in schools and other academic institutions. 
  
 According to the India Meteorological Department in  , very heavy rainfall (12-20 cm in 24 hrs) is most likely to occur at one or two places in the state and heavy rainfall (7-11cm in 24 hrs) is most likely to occur at few places in Kerala and Lakshadweep till Monday morning and is most likely to continue at one or two places in Kerala till Tuesday. 
  
  
 State disaster management authority's advisory says that night time traffic to be restricted through all hilly tracts from 7pm to 7am. Emergency vehicles may be permitted. Police may be directed to patrol such routes in the night.
 
 Trivandrum would get two more heavy spells on Sunday night and most rivers would remain in high spate on Monday too, IMD predications suggested. 
  
 Tahasildars of Kozhikode, Wayanad, Palakkad, Idukki, Kottayam and Alappuzha (Kuttanad) have been directed by PH Kurian IAS, additional chief secretary, Disaster Management, and the State Relief Commissioner to be in Taluk control rooms on Sunday night. 
  
 Meanwhile, shutters of Kallarkutty dam have been opened in Idukki.
  
  
 The Kozhikode and Kottayam districts collectors have declared holiday for all educational institutions, including professional colleges in Wayanad, on Monday due to heavy rain.
  
 Normal train operations had to be stopped for almost two hours on Sunday after a mild landslip occurred near   in Kottayam, when mud and sand got accumulated on the train track.
  
 A warning for the fishermen has also been issued, cautioning them that strong winds from a southwesterly direction with a speed occasionally reaching 45-55 kmph is likely along the coast and over Lakshadweep area till Monday afternoon.
 
 (With input from agencies)
 
