NEW DELHI: A 14-year-old girl was allegedly raped by a 20-year-old man residing in the same area where she lived, while two of his friends made a video of the act. Meanwhile, another youth kept a watch to ensure no one saw them there. The incident was reported from east Delhi's   on Saturday and the accused were arrested the following day. “All four accused were arrested from their houses and have confessed to their crime," said Omvir Singh, DCP (east).

 Police said that the girl was walking to a market near her house when four youths approached her and asked her to guide them to a shop in the area, claiming that they did not know the way. On the way, they behaved in a friendly manner with her so she would trust them.
 
 As per their plan, they roamed around the market with the girl and then asked her to show them the way to a field near their village. Since she started believing that the men were harmless, she accompanied them to the field. As soon as they realised that no one was watching them, the main accused dragged her into the middle of the field while one of the four men stayed there, to keep a watch.
 
 Police said that the girl was gagged and when they reached the middle of the field, the man allegedly raped her, while two others made a video of the act on both their phones.
 
 After around half an hour, the man who was keeping a watch informed the others that he saw someone approaching the field. Afraid of getting caught, the  , but not before warning the girl of dire consequences if she informed anyone about the incident.
 
 The main accused warned the girl that he would throw acid on her face if she told anyone about the incident. Within minutes of the incident, the accused men started spreading the video in which the man's face was not visible but the girl was seen without clothes.
 
 As the video went viral, people recognised her and asked her what had happened, after which she narrated her ordeal to them. Her parents went to Mayur Vihar police station as soon as they got to know about the incident.
 
 A case was registered and the accused were arrested while they were trying to flee from their houses in Mayur Vihar, police said.
 
