
 
 
  
 Pune was treated to something very special last night. After seducing audiences the world over with a brand of music that is theirs and theirs alone, the Manganiyars, a Rajasthani community of   musicians, were at  , to deliver their signature act,  . We sat staring at what looked like curtained red windows, stacked like a beehive of sorts. Then one of them opened to reveal a Rajasthani in traditional garb, crooning lyrics of a   song by Punjabi poet  , “The only alphabet that my beloved taught me, was the alphabet of love.” Soon, he was joined by another, and this continued, till the lone voice was accompanied by instruments like the kamancha, sarangi, algoza, morchang and dhol. And when their khartal-weilding conductor walked onto the stage, they burst into a chorus that was sometimes a wild storm and sometimes a gentle breeze. 
  
  This group of over 30 artistes has travelled the world for 10 years and covered the whole of Europe, USA, New Zealand, UK, Australia and the UAE too. For this, the musical Muslim community, who formerly graced the courts of royalty, have one man to thank – thespian Roysten Abel, who fell in love with their music and saw the potential for something much bigger than minor appearances at weddings and cultural festivals. But it was not going to be easy to convince traditional Rajasthani village folk to abandon their domestic life and travel, that too to perform in a production inspired by the red light district of Amsterdam. “They were sceptical, but I explained that just like the red light district seduces the body, this show would seduce the soul,” says Roysten, who took them to Amsterdam, so they could see for themselves, what he had in mind. 
  
  After much culture shock and one and a half years of practice, the Manganiyar act was staged for the first time in Singapore, where both the President and Prime Minister were in attendance. They’ve since charmed many a dignitary around the world, and at home in Rajasthan, they are their Chief Minister’s favourite show. But surprisingly, they have performed more outside the country, than within (this year will mark their first public performance in Mumbai) and Roysten hopes to address this as a priority. “We’ve got to take it to more common spaces like malls,” he says, admitting that while they are popular at festivals like the NH7 Weekender, their production cost (that ranges between Rs.5 to Rs.6 lakhs) can be a deterrent for many.
  
  After rave reviews from top publications across the world, the Manganiyars have become stars in their own right. Roads have been laid to their villages because of their music and yet, their community faces the same peril that many traditional Indian art forms are staring at today. Who will continue their legacy? “Manganiyar children are sent to school – which is great – but they find it difficult to focus on the music. They are encouraged to learn the music, but not as a profession,” shares Roysten, citing one of the reasons behind his second project with the community, The Manganiyar Classroom. The nearly two-year-old work features around 35 children from the community’s villages, and is a musical-theatrical treat in its own right. It is also Roysten’s effort to get the children to compose their own music - something the traditional elders are not too keen to do. Now, in between shows at Jaipur, Chennai and Mumbai, Roysten is busy working on his next, The Manganiyar Express, which should be ready by October or November this year. And hinting that we can expect plenty more, he signs off, “The musicians have grown 10 years older with me. My work with the Manganiyars continues.”
 
  
  
 
  
  
