NEW DELHI: Aam Aadmi Party on Thursday demanded that   ( ) set up an all-party committee to establish reliability of electronic voting machines (EVMs). An expert panel in this committee, the party demanded, should be given access to the EVMs used in the recent elections to see if these can be hacked.

 A day before ECI’s all-party meeting on the issue,   launched its Loktantra Bachao Abhiyan outside the commission’s headquarters at   and its Delhi convener, Gopal Rai, submitted a memorandum to election commissioner   on making the electoral process secure and EVMs open to scrutiny to rule out tampering. The AAP legislator from GK and party spokesperson,  , will lead the team on Friday. 
 
 Bharadwaj, who had carried out a live demonstration of hacking an   prototype in the Delhi assembly on May 9, said on Thursday that the question was no longer if EVMs could be manipulated but whether the recent polls were rigged.
 
 Articulating AAP’s demand, Bharadwaj said any party could name five booths where they suspected EVMs had been tampered with. “We will demand that the machines that were used be provided to us.” Bhardwaj also said ECI must formally announce the dates of the hackathon too and added that AAP would participate in it to show how machines could be hacked. 
 
 In the memorandum addressed to Zaidi, Rai said the live demonstration in the assembly using a “replica of the EVMs used by the ECI” had demolished the idea that voting machines used by it were tamper-proof.
 
 “The commission should allow technical inspection of its EVMs by the expert panel of various political parties. Future polls should be held only on VVPAT (voter-verifiable paper audit trail)-enabled machines so that paper trail guarantees integrity of the electoral process,” the AAP minister demanded. The party has also sought that “in randomly picked 25% of the total polling booths in a constituency, EVM counting results must be tallied with the VVPAT slips to check the accuracy of the EVM”.
 
 Several AAP MLAs and hundreds of party workers took part in Thursday’s demonstration. After Friday’s meeting, the party will take a call on the future course of action for its ‘Save Democracy’ campaign, which now seeks to build awareness on EVMs across the capital.
 
