The Indian Army will have a free hand in devising retaliation against the mutilation of two soldiers by Pakistan army regulars working in concert with terrorist organisations.

 Sources said the government is determined not to let what they called an act of “unprovoked aggression“ go unpunished, with defence minister Arun Jaitley publicly articulating the stand after highlevel deliberations over the fresh provocation from Pakistan. “The sacrifice of soldiers will not go in vain,“ he said.
 
 “Bodies of soldiers being   is an extreme form of barbaric act. The government of India strongly condemns this act. The whole country has full faith in our armed forces which will react appropriately ,“ Jaitley said, emphasising that “such acts don't happen even during war“. Sources said the Army , like in the aftermath of last year's attack on its camp in Uri, will have a free hand to retaliate. “They will decide the timing and the manner,“ said a source, underlining that Army chief General Bipin Rawat was an “action-oriented man“.Gen Rawat had played a key role in the planning and execution of `surgical strikes' carried out to avenge the Uri attack. “The Army may not act immediately , but will strike for sure,“ the source said.
 
 Although some accounts from the ground pointed to the possibility that the actual act of mutilation may have been carried out by terrorists, the government views the outrage as the handiwork of Pakistan army .
 
 BJP also promised swift retribution. “This act will not go unpunished as under Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the Army has not been restrained from responding to Pakistan's unprovoked ceasefire violations,“ a leader said.
 
 Besides the need to keep the morale of soldiers high, there are strong political reasons why the government will like the Army to punish Pakistan's military-terror complex once again. The beheadings, coming amid growing turbulence with stone-pelters increasingly getting bolder to harry the armed forces and just after the slaying of 25 CRPF troopers, threaten to put a question mark on the government's “tough-on-terror“ posture. The impression of a slide on the issue of national security can erase the memo ry of `surgical strikes' which helped the government earn plaudits.
 
 Remarks of opponents underlined the risk. Congress's Ahmed Patel, who was in Gujarat for the launch of the party's assembly campaign, took a jibe at the government for giving only “lectures and speeches“. CPM's Sitaram Yechury spoke along the same lines, saying whatever was done had not proved to be a deterrent, a not-so-subtle reference to the `surgical strikes'.
 
 The government has also decided to let the Army establish “area dominance“ in J&K to quell stone pelting, in a decision which is likely to see the armed forces acquiring more autonomy in areas which have seen the most violent protests.The decision stems from the recognition that at this point in time, CM Mehbooba Mufti lacks the political capital to persuade the stone pelters to give up violence.
 
