New Delhi/Mumbai: The Delhi bench of the Income-Tax Appellate Tribunal (ITAT) has upheld the action of the income tax (I-T) authorities to levy a capital gains tax of Rs 10,247 crore in the hands of   Holdings, which is a subsidiary of  . In its order delivered on Thursday, the   has waived off interest on the principal amount for not paying advance tax or filing the I-T return, which could translate into a relief of approximately Rs 18,800 crore for the UK company. 

 In 2006, shares of   (a Jersey company) were sold by Cairn UK Holdings to   (which is now a listed company). Post a survey carried out at the premises of Cairn India in January 2014, the I-T department subjected this transaction to capital gains tax in the hands of the UK seller on the grounds that it was an indirect transfer of assets situated in India. Subsequently, Cairn UK Holdings filed an appeal with the ITAT, contesting this demand. This is one of the high-value cases relating to indirect transfers, consequent to a retrospective amendment made by the Finance Act, 2012.
 
 The ITAT order, running into 166 pages, dashes hopes of resolving retrospective tax cases without going through the courts or arbitration proceedings. The order is also unlikely to be accepted by Cairn UK Holdings as it upholds the fundamental issue — the very basis of the tax claim — the company has challenged.
 
 “The ITAT decision is a straight forward application of the I-T Act. The retrospective amendment is now absolutely held valid and appellate authorities are likely to follow the precedent set. This will lead to an endless bout of litigation,” said Punit Shah, partner at  .
 
 Gokul Chaudhri, partner, BMR & Associates, added, “The current government inherited the legacy of retrospective amendment and it is unfortunate that these provisions continue to cause anxiety and concerns.” All eyes will now be on the high court proceedings, including the writ filed as regards the withholding obligation of Cairn India. Further, the bilateral investment protection agreement invoked by the Cairn group at the International Arbitration Tribunal will also be keenly watched, he added.
 
 In this case, the ITAT observed that through a series of transactions, Cairn Energy Plc, transferred the assets it owned in India, first to Cairn UK Holdings and then to Cairn India Holdings (set up in Jersey, a low-tax jurisdiction). This Jersey-based company was the holding company of nine subsidiary companies in India, which were engaged in the oil and gas sector. In the last leg of the transaction,  , sold the shares held by it in Cairn India Holdings (the Jersey company) to Cairn India. 
 
 By purchasing 100% of the shareholding (25 crore-odd shares in terms of number of shares) in the Jersey company for a total consideration of Rs. 26,682 crore, Cairn India acquired the entire Indian business of the group. Thus, the I-T authorities held the provisions section 9(1)(i) relating to indirect transfer were triggered and the seller Cairn UK holdings liable to tax on capital gains. 
 
 The ITAT rejected the contention of Cairn UK holdings that the retrospective amendment to bring to tax in India, indirect transfers was bad in law and that the share transfers were for corporate restructuring and hence not taxable in India. The only silver lining for Cairn UK Holdings is waiver of interest under sections 234A, 234B and 234C, which are levied for failure to pay advance tax and file the tax return in time, on the ground that the I-T liability arose because of a retrospective amendment.
 
 Cairn UK Holdings with its parent company — Cairn Energy PLC — is currently engaged in an arbitration under the bilateral investment protection agreement between India and UK. These UK companies have sought more than $5 billion in compensation from the Indian authorities for raising a retrospective tax demand. While a majority stake in Cairn India was sold by the UK group to Vedanta Resources in 2011, a residual stake is still held in Cain India, the sale of which was frozen pending settlement of the I-T dispute. 
 
 Cairn Energy has launched the arbitration on the ground that the Indian “authorities’ actions have breached the bilateral investment protection treaty by expropriating Cairn’s property without adequate and just compensation, denying fair and equitable treatment to Cairn in respect of its investments and restricting Cairn’s right to freely transfer funds in connection with its investment”.
 
 
