HYDERABAD: Even as the state government has launched a massive exercise to protect government land by conducting resurvey and other measures in the wake of recent land scams including the one at  , the revenue department is clueless about the location of 4,800 acres of   land in Ranga Reddy district worth crores of rupees. Scurrying to identify and protect the land, Ranga Reddy district collector has now asked the deputy collectors of surrounding mandals of Hyderabad to re-verify the land and locate the parcels.

 Bhoodan land is land donated by landlords for distributing to the landless poor. The movement was started by Acharya Vinoba Bhave in 1951 at Pochampally village in erstwhile Nalgonda district (now Yadadri Bhongir district).
 
 The   claims control of the total Bhoodan land, especially in Nalgonda and Ranga Reddy districts. The total extent of the Bhoodan land is 23,034 acres of which 14,720 acres was donated by landlords in the two districts. However, what is going to make the task of identifying the 4,800 acres very difficult is that of the total Bhoodan land, 13,101 acres do not have survey numbers. In this backdrop, the RR district officials had earlier informed the government that 16,369 acres of Bhoodan land is available. However, after physical verification, they were able to locate only 11,470 acres of Bhoodan land in mandals such as Ibrahimpatnam, Kandukur and Hayatnagar. Even as authorities are ma king efforts to recover the 4,800 acres, lack of survey numbers has become an impediment.“Deputy collectors of various mandals have been asked to crosscheck land ceiling declarations by land donors to the Bhoodan Board and also the extent of land still held by heirs. This will throw light on the Bhoodan land and help us in locating it,“ a senior revenue official of Ranga Reddy district told STOI.
 
 Revenue officials also suspect that some land in Ranga Reddy district was encroached upon for commercial purposes. As per rules, Bhoodan land should be used only for agriculture purposes. After the formation of  , chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao had directed the government to crack the whip on irregularities relating to Bhoodan land. It came to the notice of the government that there were gross violations in which people had either sold or leased their land for carrying out commercial activity . The state government-appointed Task Force on land headed by SK Sinha too had pointed out violations and recommended a probe by the CID. But the state is yet to act on the report and initiate action.
 
