Panaji: Brother of leader of opposition Chandrakant ‘Babu’  , Babal Kavlekar, has been summoned by the crime branch of the Goa police to appear before it on Monday in connection with the   slips seized from Kavlekar’s house on Wednesday.

 Crime branch sources said that the Quepem MLA told investigators that the premises from where the matka slips were seized belonged to his brother. 
 
 The   MLA was quizzed for more than an hour on Friday for his alleged links with the case.
 
 Crime branch sleuths had seized thousands of matka slips and booklets besides other material from an office room on the premises of Kavlekar’s property on Wednesday.
 
 PI Vishwesh Karpe told TOI that they have panchayat documents showing that the premises in question are owned by Babal Kavlekar. 
 
 Karpe, who is investigating the case under the supervision of crime branch SP Karthik Kashyap, said that while Babal has been summoned for questioning, Chandrakant would also be interrogated again.
 
 The police is investigating the matka case following a high court order asking police to probe a possible nexus between politicians and police. The court directives had come after activist Kashinath Shetye filed a petition before the court in 2015.
 
 The last few months has seen the crime branch conduct raids on matka dens.
 
 Box
 
 Town and country planning minister Vijai Sardesai said that it was up to the Congress to decide whether Congress MLA and leader of opposition Chandrakant Kavlekar should continue as leader of the Congress legislature party. 
 
 “I am not in the Congress and it is up to the Congress MLA to decide who should lead the CLP as it is their internal matter. It has nothing to do with us,” Sardesai said.
 
 Sardesai, however, said that it was of no consequence to the government if Kavlekar continued as the leader of the opposition as “there is no real opposition in Goa”. 
 
 “When Cipla went and advertised for jobs in Karnataka, the opposition should have come on the streets. I being a minister in the government made a noise. Where is the opposition? Let them be where they are,” Sardesai said.
 
 
