Mumbai: The second spell of   and   falls at the start of the holy month of  , which spans Thursday through Saturday.   will celebrate  , Malayalis  ,   Puthandu and the Assamese  .   will celebrate   on Thursday.

 On Wednesday, members of the Punjabi Association met thespian Dilip Kumar and his wife Saira Banu at the actors’ Pali Hill bungalow to present him a special award on the occasion of Baisakhi. “Dilip Sahab hails from Peshawar and was pleased to receive this honour as a son of the Punjabi community,” said spokesman Jasbir Singh Dham.
 
 Bengal Club will celebrate Poila Boishakh at Shivaji Park on April 15-16. President Tapan Dasgupta said, “Our Kali mandir will be open for puja all day. On Saturday afternoon we will serve a vegetarian meal of shukto (mixed vegetables), echorer tarkari (small jackfruit), dal, fried potato and rasgulla.” On Sunday night, about 100 Bengalis will assemble for a potluck meal, and this time, non-vegetarian delicacies will be included.
 
 This year, Good Friday coincides with Vishu so a few   will spend April 14 in prayer. Apart from an elaborate ‘sadya’ or vegetarian feast, the highlight of Vishu is the ‘vishukani’ arrangement. Elders assemble an image of Lord Krishna, betel leaves and nuts, uruli vessel, mirror, haldi, kumkum and the yellow kanikonna flower that blossoms in April. Early morning, each member of the family is blindfolded and led to the vishukani which is the first thing he is made to glimpse after unravelling it.
 
 Around 1,500 Malayali families in Airoli, Navi Mumbai, will celebrate with the Kairali Airoli Malayalee Samajam. Its president R C Pillai said, “At 5.30am, we will arrange the ‘vishukani’ and carry it around the homes of a few community members. These days it is not possible for everybody to assemble all the items at home so we devised this idea.” 
 
 Where families are buying five ‘konnu poovu’ flowers for Rs 50 in Matunga market, lucky residents of Airoli pick the bl-ossoms from the trees that line Airoli-Mulund bridge or Reliance and Siemens compounds.
 
 
