MUMBAI: The cash-strapped state government will set up a special purpose vehicle ( ) to monetize land to raise the Rs 1 lakh crore it will need in the next five years to fund several infrastructure projects across the state.

 The aim of the SPV, which is being called Mahainfra, is to act as a single window for aggregating land held by various department for scrutiny which are neither in use nor expected to be developed by the holding department for the next 10 years.
 
 The land will be escrowed to the SPV for generation of funds. Scrutinisation of the land will aid in raising funds through low-cost loans or bonds or investments. “The SPV would be a need-based financing, fund raising and advisory agency of the government. The government will also recruit a team of subject experts from varied fields for increasing the efficiency of the institutions,” said finance minister   in his budget speech.
 
 The state government is also considering the possibility of converting Mahainfra into a non-banking finance company on the lines of Gujarat State Financial Services Ltd.
 
 Maharashtra’s key infrastructure concerns currently include over 400 incomplete irrigation projects (Rs 80,000 crore), the approved Mumbai-Nagpur super communication highway (Rs 40,000 crore) and the long-awaited upgradation of state highways (Rs 40,000 crore). The government will also have to reduce distribution losses of the   (Rs 30,000 crore).
 
 Only recently, Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated projects worth Rs 1.06 lakh crore for the city and Mumbai Metropolitan Region. Projects that were launched include two Metro corridors in Mumbai, elevated rail corridors from CST-Panvel, Churchgate-Bandra and Bandra-Virar and the Mumbai Transharbour link.
 
 Officials from the finance department said land monetisation models in New York, Shanghai and a few other cities are being studied by a special committee which will submit its report in the next few months. Mungantiwar clarified the state government could not take loans in excess of the limit set by the Centre and  , so this was the only viable option to raise the required funds.
 
 
