The rise of   right wing ideology in UP is sending ripples in the arts and culture space of Bengal. Reacting to the appointment of   as the chief minister of UP,   has written a sharply-worded poem that has drawn criticism from a Hindu organisation. One of their members has also lodged an   against the poet in Siliguri.
On Sunday, Srijato penned a poem that ends with criticism of a comment made by Yogi Adityanath’s supporter — ‘rape dead Muslim women’. This has set social media on fire. The poem, Abhishap, has a reference to the trident: Amake dhorshon korbe joddin kobor theke tule/condom porano thakbe, tomar oi dhormer trishule. Soon after he published the piece on his   wall, Arnab Sarkar, a member of   — a right-wing group that claims to stand against the atrocities on Hindus — lodged a complaint at the Cyber Crime Cell in Siliguri on March 20, pointing out the ‘indecency’ of the poem. The FIR, a copy of which is with CT, sought arrest of the poet. 
 While there has been a lot of clamour on social media over the FIR since Tuesday morning, Srijato remained nonchalant. “I have written the poem, it’s my liberty. They went to the police — that’s their liberty,” the poet told CT. “Their level of intolerance has made their faith extremely fragile. I still enjoy freedom of speech in India. I will keep writing. I am not slightly bothered by their reaction.”
 The complainant, Arnab, on the other hand, argued that the poem set a ‘bad example’ for the younger generation. “It is in perverse taste. It is completely unexpected from a learned person like Srijato. His poem hurts my religious sentiments. Freedom of expression does not mean hurting someone’s religious sentiment. I clearly have a problem with the last two lines of the poem.”
 
 I’m a Hindu, not an atheist. And I 
 didn’t find anything inappropriate in the poem. But if someone didn’t like a few words in the poem, they could have countered it with another piece of writing. Moreover, I don’t think religion is so fragile that a poem 
 can break it. Everyone has personal freedom and Srijato has not taken any names. I don’t support the FIR
 —  , 
 novelist
 
 For an artiste, creative freedom is of utmost importance. A society that fails to ensure this is a failure. I completely stand by Srijato. So, I have some suggestions for those who lodged the FIR. They must listen to music, read poems and watch good films. A little interest in the cultural side of life may reduce their intolerance
 — Anindya Chattopadhyay, singer/filmmaker
 
 Lodging a complaint against an artiste’s freedom suits them (the litigants), as they have taken the concept of 
 religion to an ugly level. 
 They are fundamentalists. 
 So, I stand by Srijato and 
 what he wrote. And if he’s 
 disturbed by any means for his creation, we’ll fight together
 — Mandakranta Sen, 
 poet
 
 This is shameful and it’s an offence to interfere with our freedom of expression. After all, our country and the Constitution give us that freedom. I want Srijato and all the other poets and writers out there to write. Yes, someone may feel hurt, but if a poet starts writing to please everyone, it will become appeasement, not poetry
 — Anupam Roy, 
 singer/composer
 
 
 
 
