FARIDABAD: The Municipal Corporation of   ( ) has been pushed into action after residents reported massive   on the   in the last weekend. A city-based NGO, Save Aravalis, also filed a complaint with police. Officials inspected the site on Sunday and said the offenders, who are yet to be identified, would be punished.

 Residential area around the Pali-Badhkal road remained engulfed in smoke for at least three hours on Saturday evening after massive quantities of waste was burnt in open opposite to the National Institute of Financial Management, according to eyewitnesses.
 
 “It was shocking to see waste being burnt on such a massive scale. Smoke could be seen from a considerable distance. We were all choking for at least three hours,” said Malkhan Singh, a resident. 
 
 Kiran Bharadwaj, a passer-by, said, “We were in a car when we saw smoke billowing from the area near the institute. It was of such a massive scale that we stopped our car to see what sparked the blaze. However, locals told us that waste was being burnt.”
 
 A complaint was filed bySave Aravalis at the   police station on Saturday. Jitender Bhadana, a member of the NGO, said, “This is not the first time that we lodged a complaint alleging waste burning. I have been filing such complaints on a weekly basis. As there are a lot of industries in Faridabad, factory waste comprises rubber and plastic material, which is often burnt in open.”
 
 Officials from MCF inspected the area on Sunday and assured swift action. “We got the information from residents and immediately sent the ground staff to inspect the area. Even though we couldn’t book anyone, we assure that strict action will be taken against the violators,” he said.
 
 In April 2016, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) passed an order instructing commissioners of police of Faridabad and Gurgaon to deploy guards on both side of Aravali range in Gurgaon and Faridabad. Besides, a penalty of Rs 5,000 can be imposed on the violators under the   regulations.
 
 Experts said waste burning in the open leads to emission of greenhouse gases. “Burning waste in open releases greenhouse gases into the air such as carbon monoxide, nitrous oxide and sulphur dioxide that can pose health hazards. Also, open garbage burning contributes 5-11 percent of direct particulate matter to the air. It is a very serious concern and authorities need to take immediate action to tackle this,” said Bhadana.
 
 
