KOLKATA: The `horror house' at 3, Robinson Street, where Partha De lived for six months with the rotting corpses of his sister and two dogs and where his father committed suicide, has been sold to a realtor known for striking deals in old properties at prime locations, police sources said on Wednesday.

 No one currently lives in the house situated on a 23-cottah plot that is a veritable goldmine. Located between Rawdon Street and Loudon Street, the three-storey house is belie ved to have exchanged hands for an estimated Rs 46 crore. When police examines Partha De's bank account on Thursday, the balance is expected to throw some light on the deal. The sale, police said, could have financed the Watgunge flat that Partha bought for around Rs 90 lakh.
 
 According to brokers, a property of the size of 3, Robinson Street would be worth around Rs 50 crore.
 
 The deal to sell the house may have been struck three months ago, following which Partha's uncle Arun De shifted to another house in south Kolkata, the police sources said. The four tenants who lived there have also been suitably compensated and the promoter got the house vacated. Sources said the four tenants received Rs 2.2-2.6 crore each. A guard said the house has been empty since November, but the realtor's men keep visiting regularly.
 
 According to cops, a couple of facilitators helped Partha and his uncle Arun De sit toget her to sign the sale deed sometime in late October or early November. Cops believe that one of the facilitators could have been a police officer while the other was possibly Father Rodney Borneo, the priest who had become Partha's friend and confidant.
 
 Fr Rodney himself told TOI that he had “brought uncle and nephew together“ but stopped short of either confirming or denying the sale. Police are yet to find any do cument confirming if the house sake deed is registered with   and Stamp Revenue. The last registration of the property was in 2002 when a joint trust was formed in the name of Partha De's father Arabinda and uncle Arun. “The new owner may register it once the dust settles. The current owner may also have obtained a power of attorney from the De duo to sell it off to a third party later,“ said a registration official. But De's death may make the right in valid.
 
 A guard at 3, Robinson Street said the owners had long sold the property. “Koi Marwari promoter kharida hai (a Marwari promoter has bought it),“ he said.
 
 Arun De, who owned half the property, lived there till November. “Woh log to chale gaye teen mahine hue. November mein bikri hua tha (They left the place three months ago.The sale happened in November),“ said the guard. Just then a white hatchback arrived.“Promoter ka admi hai (He is the promoter's man),“ the guard said.
 
 TOI spotted several people roaming inside the property. The De brothers made several attempts to sell the property. Arabinda had approached his solicitor Subir Majumdar four months before his suicide in June 2015 to sell the property. Majumdar had advised him to take Arun along as it was an undivided property. “But when the price did not rise above Rs 20 crore, the brothers decided not to sell it. For such sought-after properties, the land mafia try to keep the price low,“ he said.
 
 Majumdar claimed Arabinda wanted to appoint him as the power of attorney . “I think he feared for his life and thought Partha could not manage the property ,“ he said.
 
 
