PUNE: On the stretch across  , on  , wrong side driving has turned into a routine. 

 Two-wheelers, cars, trucks, tempos even police jeeps casually break the law here since the legitimate U-turn is at a junction, a few hundred metres ahead. The offenders not only brazenly break the law, but also put pedestrians' lives at risk, particularly the elderly and children on their way to the temple.
 
 Local residents from the area and those regularly commuting via this route say the problem is as bad throughout the day. Those residing in the lane left of the main road, shopkeepers from commercial establishments nearby and those travelling towards   from SB Road treat it as the shortest route despite the risks involved.
 
 While some flash the headlights to warn those on the legitimate side of the road, some slowly sneak up to the edge of the turn to make a dash for the right side, much to the frustration of motorists.Traffic logjams have become a regular feature at the spot, thanks to vehicles converging from three directions without a traffic police official available to manage the situation.
 
 Dyaneshwar Langde, who lives in the vicinity, said, "All kinds of vehicles use the wrong side of the road, without any fear. It's so common that we have got used to it and always drive extra cautiously when crossing the spot. What is worse is that even the area police, including women officers on two-wheelers, flout the rule shamelessly. We wonder who will enforce the rule. The authorities should suspend the license of such law breakers."
 
 Another local resident Satish Pethkar blamed the chaos on the fact that the U-turn is located too far ahead. "Drivers try to avoid the extra drive as it is too long and the signal at   is always busy since it's open only for a few seconds. As a result, one ends up wasting at least five minutes or even longer during peak hours. Motorists fearlessly break the law as the traffic police hardly ever apprehends offenders," he said.
 
 Residents allege that the CCTV camera installed right above the spot is hardly ever used and urge the traffic authorities to make use of the footage to clamp down on law breakers.
 
 Sangita Gaikwad of   traffic division said the police regularly challaned offenders in the area. "We have been conducting a regular drive against those who drive on the wrong side of the road. We urge citizens to come forward with photo evidence against violators and we will take action even against the police officials found flouting rules," she added.
 
