TRICHY: The   verdict convicting V K   in the assets case has gladdened the hearts of most people in the delta districts who have already been demanding that she not be given the chief minister’s mantle. With legal experts pointing out that she could not contest elections for the next 10 years, the people are happy that their hopes have come true. On their part, DMK sitting MLAs felt that justice had been done after 21 years. 

 Meanwhile, M Tamimun Ansari, MLA, who conducted an opinion poll on the leadership question in Nagapattinam on Monday, along with Mylapore MLA R Nataraj have decided to hold talks with AIADMK functionaries to avert a split in the party. “Whatever happens in AIADMK is their internal matter. However, that should not lead to a split. I and Mylapore MLA R Nataraj are holding parleys to avert that situation. We have decided to contact like-minded party functionaries and workers to unite them”, he stated.
 
 S Ragupathy, DMK MLA of Thirumayam constituency in Pudukkottai district and a former minister, said that they did not have an opinion different from that of party working president MK Stalin. “Justice has been reinstated after 21 years. Our working president has clearly stated the party stand”, he said. Commenting on Edapadi K Palanisamy’s selection as the legislature party leader, he said this would lead to a split in AIADMK. Siva V Meyyanathan, DMK MLA, Alangudi constituency in Pudukkottai district, also echoed Ragupathy’s view. 
 
 But farmers in delta district said what they expected had come true. “We do not have any particular opinion on who should take over the party or assume charge as chief minister, but Sasikala should not be made CM”, said Siva Ramesh, 40, a farmer from   village in Nagapattinam district. 
 
 S Kanagaraj, 50, a farmer from Thanjavur district, said nobody liked Sasikala to be elevated as chief minister. “Within a short period   has done his best. So, he should continue as CM. However, I personally appealed to the party functionaries to avert a split”, he said. 
 
 Meanwhile, a gang reportedly attacked Deepa supporters who distributed sweets at Perambalur bus stand celebrating VK Sasikala’s conviction. While Pitchai, organiser of Deepa Peravai, was distributing ladoos to passengers along with his supporters, a group alleged to be supporters of Kunnam MLA and district secretary RT Ramachandran rushed there and allegedly attacked them. Three people including Pitchai sustained injuries, sources said. 
 
 
