Monsoon means different things to different people but for photographers, it is the season when brilliant photos literally pour from the heavens. 

 Some of them go to any extent, and there are a few who have even sacrificed their lives to capture the wild side of nature during the season. A case in point is late Victor George who walked into a landslide with his camera, with tragic results. 
 The season continues to seduce our lensmen, young and old, professional or amateur, despite its occasional furious avatars. We talk to a few photographers about how the season turns the State into a paradise of pictures, not just because of the rain but also the unique light that envelops certain regions.
 
 
 
  may mostly bring to mind images of pouring rain, umbrella heads and probably how it presents itself on varying terrains, but shutterbugs say that ideal monsoon photography in Kerala means a lot more.
 Photographer A P Joy, coordinator of a renowned camera club, says, “We had recently organised a monsoon photography ‘mazha’ camp in Munnar and what we wanted to shed light on was this aspect. Rain or no rain, monsoon season offers a plethora of opportunities to click away to glory. The whole lighting of the State in this season, especially in places like Munnar, changes to something so beautiful that it gives a special aura to the pics. You don’t even need to use any different lens, as the feel of the season offers a new mood to the landscape.”
 
 Photographer N P Jayan, who has done a series called Malabar Rains about the monsoon in Northern Kerala, says there are umpteen rain-related activities too, to bank on. “From a sapling sprouting on the ground to farmers on the field, our monsoon gives a different hue to all aspects of life and broadly, monsoon photography is meaningful when all of it finds a space. Moreover, life itself assumes a different style and tone during pre and post shower periods.”
 
 
 Renowned photographer Ajay Menon who recently did a monsoon photo expedition, says Kerala looks her best this season. “If you want to capture the beauty of Kerala, you should photograph her during the monsoon. I don’t think anywhere else you can find monsoon so vibrant, intense and unpredictable. It also lets the photographers see their frames in a new light, literally, thanks to the peculiarity of the lighting,” he says.
 
 
 
 Photographer-cum-artist K R Sunil, who recently took part in Kochi-Muziris Biennale, says that he does not generally chase after monsoon photographs, but they come to him inevitably. “It is very well connected to the life of Kerala and you get to see its influence all the time. However, there are times when I have patiently waited to capture the impact of rain. For instance, once I was in a kabaristhan of Ponnani, clicking the pics for my Biennale exhibition. I noticed someone coming in to offer prayers at the tomb of his parents. It also started raining, slowly but the person continued his namaz. Probably due to the way the rain embraced him on that lonely kabaristhan, the man did not move from the spot though he continued to get wet. That in itself became a frame for my exhibition at the Biennale.”
 
 A P Joy remembers that while at the ‘mazha camp,’ the photographers got to see herds of elephants and their antics, which can generally not be captured in any other season. “It’s not easy for photographers, who are even based out of here, to get good clicks of elephant herds in these areas in other seasons. But inspired by the blue sky and verdant forest, we waited patiently to get a glimpse of them and yes, it proved to be rewarding with some beautiful photos coming our way.”
 
 
 
 According to Joy, the photographers of the State are now banking on monsoons even for wedding photography! “People are almost done with going in search of scenic locales and capturing their romantic moments solely with those backdrops. Shooting in the monsoon is challenging, but quite a few couple are now coming forward to try it out in the quest to make their albums unique.”
 There are also quite a few who have now started attempting   photography through drone cameras, according to shutterbugs. While no exhibition or any series of work has been done yet this way, the day we get to see monsoon in such an angle in our galleries is not far away.
 
