AURANGABAD: The aspirants of the   (NTS) examination who have been facing difficulty in procuring there   need not have to worry anymore.

 In the wake of mounting complaints for not receiving the admit cards on time, the National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT) has prescribed an alternative procedure for the benefit of the students.
 
 Such candidates are advised to take a print out of there blank admit card from the official website, duly fill it up before pasting there photographs or getting it attested from the principal of the respective school or by a gazetted officer of the central or the  . 
 
 “ Irrespective of the examination centre, students will be allowed to write the exams if they have their names in the candidature list,” a NCERT circular read.
 
 Candidates can also reach the help-line number 011-26560464 in case of any difficulty, it added. 
 
 Candidates who have cleared the first stage of the state-level NTS examination will be appearing for the next level of the test scheduled for May 14. 
 
 Sukhdev Dere, commissioner of Pune-based Maharashtra   (MSCE) said, “Affected state candidates must also carry qualifying letters sent to them.” 
 
 “MSCE has already issued letters to the candidates who have qualified for in the country-level NTS examination. Besides following alternate remedy prescribed by the NCERT, students are also advised to carry these letters to substantiate their candidature,” he said. 
 
 Meanwhile, NCERT has uploaded a specimen of the OMR answer-sheets on its website to familiarise the candidates with the answer sheet. The examination will have three set of papers on mental ability test, language test and   
 
 NTS examination is conducted every year at the state and national level. Based on the merit list around 1,000 scholarships are awarded to students from junior college, undergraduate and postgraduate and PhD level. 
 
  and advise the centre and the state government on policies and programmes for qualitative improvement in school education. 
 
