DARJEELING: Tourists visiting Kalimpong and Mirik now have a reprieve. The state government has denotified the state highways flanking these areas, allowing the liquor vends to skip the   directive. But those in Darjeeling and Kurseong have no escape.

 Linked by national highways, the apex court ban holds, fuelling fears among hoteliers and bar owners that this will push tourists from Kolkata to Sikkim and Meghalaya where there is no ban on liquor vends. 
 
 “We have filed a representation in the SC for exemption as our region is topographically similar to Sikkim and Meghalaya — the two states not under the purview of the ban,” said  , a wholesale dealer and acting secretary of the West Bengal On and Off Shop and Country Spirit and Hotel Owner’s Association. Poddar said he has Rs 3.5 lakh worth of stock that has not been moved since the ban.
 
 In Darjeeling, the liquor ban (in municipal areas) has affected five foreign liquor off-shops, not including one outlet each in Sonada, Ghoom and Sukhiapokhari, and 27 on-shops (hotel-cum-restaurant-cum-bars). Four country spirit outlets have also shut down.
 
 Deep Arora, owner of The Park restaurant, said within four days of the ban, the affect has been massive. “The sale is down by 70% in just four days. The evening crowds which we depend on are not coming. I am hoping the state government comes up with a solution,” he said.
 
 Others like  , who runs the popular Glenary’s near Chowrasta, termed the ban a tragedy and feared it could lead to staff members losing jobs. “Restaurants depend on sale of liquor to sustain. In the Hills, tourists and even local residents come to restaurants for a drink and in the process also order for food. I have around 110 staffers, but if I am not able to serve liquor, then my income will plunge drastically,” he said.
 
  who operates the Blue Line restaurant-cum-bar at Batasia, reasoned that Darjeeling being an ‘S’ road, it is impossible to shift his outlets to negotiate the 500m hurdle. “I saved money to establish the restaurant which is my only source of income to sustain my family. Even if I want to relocate or shift, it will not be possible as in the Hills we will eventually reach the state or national highway,” he said.
 
 In Kalimpong, Rishi road, which has recently been renamed Dal Bahadur road falling on the state highway from Teesta to Pedong, has been denotified and converted into a major district road. 
 
 Similarly in Mirik, a 3.3km stretch from Alley ground to the town that comes under the state highway has been denotified.
 
