NEW DELHI: Moti, the dog kept by toll collectors on the DND Flyway to chase after errant truck drivers, will find itself unemployed if South Delhi Municipal Corporation implements the much-necessary reforms in the dysfunction toll collection system. The civic body — which is the nodal agency for the collection of   at   with other states — plans to go ahead with RFID-based   on the 13 major border entry points that let in most of the  .

 The massive jams at the border toll collection points, as highlighted by TOI recently, occur because trucks and taxis are haphazardly stopped on the roads for the purpose of collecting the MCD entry tax and the Supreme Court-mandated environment compensation charge and also because of the frantic mid-street efforts to stop the commercial vehicles that frequently try to evade the toll agents.
 
 These jams will be obviated by the employment of an automated   (radio frequency identification) toll collection system. A unique smart tag is allocated to each commercial vehicle, whose details are stored in the RFID-based system. Every time, a truck or taxi crosses the toll plaza, the stipulated toll amount is automatically deducted from the vehicle’s account, which can be recharged should the balance prove insufficient. This will involve minimal contact time with the plaza, and thus facilitate decongestion there.
 
 Puneet Goel, commissioner of SDMC, said that “the 13 points that have been identified see almost 85% of the incoming commercial traffic”. He told TOI on Saturday, “Even if we are able to move only a portion of the commercial vehicles to the RFID-based system, traffic will begin to pass more quickly at the toll barriers.”
 
 Goel said that the system will be made optional in the first three months, but it will become mandatory for frequent users after that. .
 
 The border points where RFID-based toll collection will be implemented are Kundli, Tikri, Kapashera, Rajokri, Aya Nagar, Badarpur-Faridabad, Badarpur-Faridabad Main, Kalindi Kunj, DND Flyway, Ghazipur (Main), Ghazipur (Old), Shahdara (Main) and Shahdara (flyover).
 
 The tendering for the advisory services for the project closed on Thursday and the bids are currently being scrutinised. “We have engaged technical experts at the cost of Rs 35 lakh and they are expected to submit detailed project report in 30 days,” said an official of the SDMC toll department.
 
 In addition, the corporation has also carried out a survey to identify the problems marring the drive for non-paying commuters after 11pm, when entry to Delhi opens. “We have identified DND Flyway, Kalindi Kunj, Tikri border and Rajokri as border points that require modifications in booth infrastructure to smoothen the entry of trucks,” Goel said.
 
 At DND, the toll collectors will shift from the temporary arrangements being currently used to the kiosks used earlier to collect the flyway toll. “We are working with Noida Authority on this, and DND is likely to be free of jams in the next 2-3 days,” an SDMC official assured. At Tikri, the flow of traffic, already hampered by the narrow stretch on which the toll booths are located, has been compounded by a Delhi Metro construction. “We have asked the private toll collector there to shift the booths to a wider section inside Delhi,” the official disclosed.
 
 In Gurgaon, to regulate the presence trucks that reach the border point early and then cause traffic hurdles by parking on the roads, SDMC and Haryana Police plan to shift the halting point of trucks awaiting the 11pm no-entry zone to the Panchgaon-Kundli-Manesar-Palwal crossing. “The Gurgaon border is one of the busiest,” said the SDMC additional commissioner. “Once the clock strikes 11pm, the large number of trucks parked in the vicinity rush towards the toll barrier, causing uncontrollable jams.”
 
 The fact that the corporations have admitted there is trouble for commuters at the border at night is encouraging. That they are thinking of some immediate remedial steps and a better toll collection system is heartening. But only time will tell if the project is able to avoid the usual bureaucratic slowness.
 
