PUNE: The first advance production estimate of   by the state agriculture department has indicated a 30% dip in production of foodgrain in Maharashtra in 2017-18 when compared to the bumper harvest of 2016-17.

 The agriculture ministry has pegged the total kharif production this fiscal to drop by 2.8%. A nearly 40% dip in the production of pulses is expected in comparison to last year. Ministry officials said the uneven distribution of rain and dry spells in the farming belt of   and   during the monsoon was to blame.
 
 An agricultural department official told TOI that the production dip in the state this year can be attributed to the erratic monsoon in Vidarbha which has been deficient by 23% so far this year.
 
 “The paddy transplantation has not been completed till now. It will translate to a nearly 30% dip in paddy production from this region. Moong or split green gram and urad or split black gram may witness a 35% drop in production due to the deficient monsoon in the region. Estimates show that soybean production may also dip by 25%,“ the official said. 
 
 Vidarbha has a 25% contribution of split green gram and split black gram to the total production of these pulses in the state, while its soybean contribution is 30%.
 
 There has been a conspicuous productivity dip in the state as per the latest estimate. For instance, food-grain productivity last year was 1,642 kg per hectare which may dip by 21% this fiscal to 1,301kg per hectare.
 
 According to MAHA Farmers Producer Company Ltd (MAHAFPC), close to 75% of the state's production of pulses is concentrated in Marathwada and Vidarbha. “This kharif season, production of foodgrain and pulses is likely to witness a significant dip because of two reasons, the delayed monsoon arrival in these parts as well as prolonged dry spells followed by heavy spells of rain,“ Amit Naphade, director, MAHAFPC, said.
 
 Split green gram and split black gram grown this kharif season have already started trickling into the wholesale markets, split red gram will hit the markets in January .
 
 Naphade said heavy rain in the last month also affected the quality of pulses from these regions, which means that much of pulses' stocks may fail to meet the quality specification of the minimum support price.“It is likely to affect the farmers adversely," he added.
 
