ROPAR: Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) Ropar   was on Saturday booked for allegedly using foul language and threatening his former landlady with dire consequences. The first-time legislator  , who used to be a taxi driver in Delhi, was among the common men fielded by   in the Punjab assembly elections held in February 2017.

 Complainant Tarminder Kaur said she owned a house in Zail Singh Nagar locality of Ropar, which she had rented out to Sandoa in October-November last year. She alleged that Sandoa was introduced to her by a local   (SGPC) member, who told her that he was contesting elections from Ropar as an AAP candidate.
 
 Tarminder said she had given the house on rent to Sandoa at Rs 30,000 a month apart from the electricity and water charges. He was also liable to pay for any damage caused to the property. Sandoa stayed in the house till March this year, but failed to pay rent and water and electricity bills till April.
 
 She alleged he even damaged her property, with the cost of repairs running to Rs 3 lakh. Tarminder said despite making repeated calls to the MLA, she was not paid.
 
 She said on July 27 evening, she along with her relative Satinder Dhaliwal went to meet Sandoa to settle the bills, but instead of giving them a patient hearing, he started yelling at them and used foul language. He also pushed her and she fell on the ground.
 
 Ropar senior superintendent of police (SSP) Raj Bachan Singh Sandhu said that following the complaint they had registered a case under various IPC sections for outraging the modesty of a woman, criminal intimidation and causing hurt and got Tarminder’s medical examination conducted at the local civil hospital.
 
 Dening the allegations, Sandoa said he was supposed to pay Rs 15,000 for electricity, water and sewerage bills. He said when Tarminder came to the house on July 27 evening he was not at home. “When I returned home, I gave her a cheque to clear the pending amount, which she refused to accept and left the house without saying anything. It is a political conspiracy against me,” he said.
 
 Meanwhile, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) spokesman  , who lost to Sandoa from the Ropar assembly constituency, demanded immediate arrest of the AAP MLA.
 
