By
 
First of all it is necessary to describe the acts using the right words.
 
 Both   and   are crimes.It is time we started treating these crimes as crimes and not as naughty behaviour of boys who get “provoked by the clothes women wear“. When someone is pickpocketed, murdered or someone's house is burgled, we don't blame them.We consider those acts to be criminal acts and those who commit those acts as criminals. It is necessary to do the same in cases of molestation and sexual harassment.
 
 A woman's body belongs only to her, and no one, not even her close relatives leave alone strangers, can touch her without her consent. What women wear or don't wear has nothing to do with sexual harassment and sexual assault.
 
 All   is about the fact that girls and women are considered to be objects for use and abuse by others. When we comment on the clothes women wear, are we suggesting that women who wear “Indian“ attire are not sexually assaulted? We must stop blaming the survivors of these   instead of the criminals.
 
 Sexual harassment and assault of women happens be cause women are considered to occupy an inferior position in the society. Despite an increasing number of women today occupying positions of power and more middle class upper caste women working, also in professions that were considered masculine, the Constitution guaranteeing equality and laws expressly made to protect certain basic rights of women, the fact is that women still don't have the power of decision making and are considered less important and inferior to men.
 
 Even if one was to buy the statement that they were wearing western clothes, should that result in their sexual harassment. Are men who expose their private parts urinating along the roadside sexually assaulted? No. Then what has a girl wearing a certain cloth to do with sexual harassment? It is just a question of double standards and  , an attempt to make women stay to the confines of their houses.
 
 (V S Elizabeth is an ex coordinator Centre for Women and Law, NLSUI)
 
