PUNE: The   have started an   to get their area merged with the   limits of Pune or   

 The campaign is running as a petition on the digital platform Change.org and will be forwarded to chief minister   once it garners 1,000 signatures.
 
 Wagholi, a fast developing suburb on the eastern end of the city along Ahmednagar Road, is currently under the jurisdiction of the area's gram panchayat. 
 
 Flat owners and those living on rent in the multiple high-rises in the area had their hopes pinned on the proposed merger of 34 villages with the limits of Pune Municipal Corporation. 
 
 People living in the suburb believe that the gram panchayat is incapable of handling the growth of the area. Even basic civic requirements like water, sewage and garbage management, and infrastructure like roads, gardens and streetlights are not being made available to the new residents of the area. Thousands of software professionals working in the nearby IT clusters reside here, among others. Haphazard and illegal construction in the area are also making life difficult here, some residents allege. 
 
 The online petition was started by Harcharanjeet Butalia, a resident of the area, who has questioned the exclusion of Wagholi from the list of the newly merged villages. 
 
 "The gram panchayat claims they are not capable of providing even the basic facilities. However, they expect us to pay taxes. When they admit they cannot cope with the growth, I fail to understand why are they preventing the merger," Butalia has written in the petition, which had garnered almost 950 signatures by the time this report was filed.
 
 Ela Agarwal, a resident of the area who signed the petition said, "We are very keen to be included in the jurisdiction of the urban civic bodies. There are several problems here that the gram panchayat has not been able to address at all. We are really hopeful this time. I hope we don't have to wait for five more years."
 
 The Gram Panchayat is ready to go with the mass opinion in the area, admitted Sameer Bhadale, deputy sarpanch of Wagholi. "We have called a Panchayat meeting next week. We are ready to form a public consensus on the issue. It is true that the area has grown beyond the capacity of the gram panchayat," he said.
 
