(Cleared/ Gopa)

 Madurai: As the mercury hovers around 39 degree Celsius in Madurai, water level in the   has been going down at an alarming rate foreboding an impending crisis. People are being forced to shell out more to meet their water needs especially in the extension areas of the corporation where there is no Vaigai water supply.
 
 What has got the residents particularly worried is the fact that the water level has started plunging even before the summer reached its peak. Around this time last year, the level in the dam stood a good 10 feet above: It was 36.22 feet the same day last year as against just 25.56 feet on Tuesday. There is no inflow into the dam while 40 cusecs is being discharged from it to meet the drinking water needs of the city. PWD sources said that the water would be sufficient for only 20 more days if similar conditions prevailed.
 
 Meanwhile, water tankers of various capacities have started supplying water to the houses in many parts of the city including Gomathypuram, Anna Nagar, K K Nagar and Athikulam where borewells have already gone dry and people are depending on tankers for their daily needs. ``Last year I started purchasing 3,000 litres a week only from August, but this year I am forced to buy water at Rs 200 for 1,000 litres from the beginning of April,’’ said A Sundari of Tahsildar Nagar.
 
 As water has become expensive, people have been resorting to thrifty measures by recycling the water they use. ``The washing machine consumes a lot of water, so now I have begun washing the clothes by hand and using the dirty water to water plants and also flush the toilets,’’ said T Usharani of Athikulam. The newly added areas of the Madurai Corporation do not have Vaigai water supply. In many areas water is supplied through the old panchayat taps from borewells, but here too the supply has become irregular. ``We get 500 litres once in four days, that is if people do not tap the line with motors. Otherwise we have to buy 1,000 litres for Rs 200 every three days,’’ said Janarathanan of Tahsildar Nagar.
 
 Corporation commissioner Sandeep Nanduri said that the water in the Vaigai dam would help meet the drinking water needs of the city for the next one month. ``Otherwise, we have our contingency plan in place: 200 new borewells have been drilled, four infiltration wells laid in Melakkal and all concerned tenders have been passed,’’ he said.
 
 
