NASHIK: The Association of Hotels, Bars and Restaurants (ABHAR), Nashik on Thursday welcomed the government’s decision to make   optional even as the facilities in the city do not charge customers for such service. It said the customers voluntarily give tips to waiters as service charge.

 The Union consumers affairs ministry had on Monday said the service charges billed by restaurants or hotels were optional and it was up to the customers whether to pay for it or not. The department cited complaints that restaurants and hotels were levying additional 5-20% in bills in lieu of tips, which a consumer is forced to pay irrespective of the kind of service provided to him or her. 
 
 Speaking to TOI, Sanjay Chavan, president of ABHAR Nashik, said, “We have around 300 hotels and restaurants as members. There is no practice in the city hotels or restaurants to charge ‘service charge’ in bills from customers. The customers pay tips as service charge to waiters after they pay their bills and it is voluntary. There is nothing new in the decision.”
 
 He added, “This practice exists in other cities and there is no issue of service charge in Nashik. Customers voluntarily pay tips of Rs 10 to 100 as per their wish and there is no role of hotels or restaurants.” 
 
 In its statement on service charge on Monday, the Union consumers affairs ministry said: “A number of complaints from consumers has been received that hotels and restaurants are following the practice of charging service charge in the range of 5-20% in lieu of tips, which a consumer is forced to pay irrespective of the kind of service provided to him.” 
 
 The statement added, “The Consumer Protection Act, 1986 provides that a trade practice which, for the purpose of promoting the sale, uses or the supply of any goods or for the provision of any service, adopts any unfair method or deceptive practice, is to be treated as an unfair trade practice and that a consumer can make a complaint to the appropriate consumer forum established under the Act against such unfair trade practices. In this context, the department of Consumer Affairs, Central Government has called for clarification from the  , which have replied that the service charge is completely discretionary and should a customer be dissatisfied with the dining experience he/she can have it waived off. Therefore, it is deemed to be accepted voluntarily.”
 
 
