Contrary to the general be lief that the BJP got stronger as the election progressed after starting weak in the first phase in Western UP, an analysis of seat tallies and vote shares in each of the seven phases shows that the party lost steam towards the end, though only in a relative sense.

 The BJP in   almost exactly replicated its 2014 performance, winning 312 seats with its allies compared to 337 in the   polls. The combined vote share of 41.4% for the alliance was also pretty close to the 43.3% achieved three years ago.
 
 In the last two phases, which were in  , however, the BJP and its allies won 65 seats compared to the 83 they led in during the 2014 polls. The saffron combine's vote share went down only marginally in these parts from 41.6% in 2014 to 40.4%, but the SP , BSP and Congress all raised their vote shares by a little and the alliance between SP and Congress meant the two won 14 seats here while they had led in only six in the Lok Sabha polls. The BSP, which had not led in a single one of these 89 seats during the parliamentary polls, managed to win eight this time round.
 
 The popular belief proved as much a myth at the other end of the state, the west. Here, the BJP won 66 seats in phase 1this time compared to 68 in 2014.Though its vote share did dip significantly from 50.4% in the Lok Sabha polls to 45.5% this time, even the reduced share was more than enough to completely dominate the 73 seats in a triangular race. The modest reduction in vote share and a poor showing by the RLD here give the lie to the theory that the Jats deserted the saffron party in these elections. In the second, third and fo urth phases, held in  , central UP , Bundelkhand and a small part of Avadh, the BJP actually won more seats this time than its assembly segment leads in 2014. In each case, it happened despite a slight erosion in its vote share from three years ago.In contrast, the BSP gained vote share in these parts as in the rest of the state, but the electoral arithmetic of a three-cornered fight meant it actually won fewer seats. The SP could do only marginally better even in its central UP stronghold than three years ago and much worse than in 2012.
 
