GURUGRAM: For the last 11 days, Gurugram has felt as flat as one of those Indian beers of old. But on Tuesday, if you were in   (or thereabouts), and your livelihood involves turning on a tap to pour a pint (or actions similar), there was the promise of better – and fizzier – days ahead.

 Since April 1, when the Supreme Court’s December 15 order banning the sale of   within 500 metres of state and national highways came into effect, owners of the city’s F&B establishments have been sat twiddling their thumbs. Is this what AC/DC meant when they belted out ‘Highway to Hell’?
 
 Behind the scenes, of course, furious parleys have been going on, as restaurateurs and bar owners sought to put together an argument to convince the honourable judges of the sheer unworkability of such a judgement. In addition, on the advice of the district administration, the proprietors had filed affidavits seeking clarity, and requesting that measurements be taken to discover, once and for all, the motorable distance between NH-8 and their establishments. 
 
 On Tuesday, then, and not unexpectedly, a team from the excise department, along with officials from  ,   and  , visited Cyber Hub (besides dropping in at The Leela Ambience, The Oberoi, Trident and The Westin hotels). Unbeknown to anyone, the team reached Cyber Hub before opening hours, and proceeded to take calculations of the plaza’s circumference. It wasn’t lunch hour, time maybe for a summer cooler, or a midday espresso.
 
 None of the team interacted with barmen or restaurant employees. They came, they measured, and went on their way. A roadometer, a device used by the   (somewhat resembling a saddle-less unicycle) was used to calculate the distances. The   was controlled by a single person, who walked alongside on foot. There was nothing hi-tech about the process. It was all done without fuss. “They arrived before midday, when most of the   and restaurants had yet to open – only the cafés had opened. There were around 12, maybe as many as 15-16, people in the team. They completed a round of Cyber Hub, using a measuring machine to figure out the distance, and then they left,” revealed a restaurant manager at the ‘Hub’.
 
 So, the measurements have been taken, and while the authorities haven’t officially shared the findings, there’s every sign that Cyber Hub’s pubs and bars are in the clear (according to TOI, the motorable distance is well beyond 500m from NH-8). Tuesday’s exercise will go some way in lifting the fog of uncertainty that has been hanging over this highway hangout. And bartenders can now think of going back to serving drinks. 
 
 For the reality was that this booze-unfriendly diktat would have left a monumental hole in the state’s coffers. And besides, there was little evidence the Haryana administration had come up with contingency plans to tide over the obvious loss in revenue.
 
 And anyway, Gurgaon without Cyber Hub is like Paris without its cafés, Munich without its beer halls and London without its pubs. A lot of this city’s appeal lies in the gastronomic experiences it promises, the diverse cuisines its restaurants offer, and the embarrassment of beers its microbreweries can boast.
 
 Now, the ‘wheels’ have been set in motion for a return to alcoholic normalcy. With the hot weather now here, chilled relief couldn’t come any more quickly.
 
 
