CHENNAI: The   on Wednesday evening touched the season's high of 14,689 MW and the entire demand was supplied with the help of thermal and  . With the   on the rise, the demand for power has been increasing, especially during evening, when more domestic consumers switch on their  . Compared to last year, the power demand from industries is also on the rise but demand from farmers is less due to severe drought.The Tangedco management is hopeful of meeting peak summer demand of around 16,000MW without resorting to power cuts.

 “Last intra-evening demand touched 14,689 MW, the record demand for this season. This was created by domestic consumers, industry and farmers. Demand in Chennai and nearby areas alone has been increasing each day due to increase use of air conditioners.,“ said a senior Tangedco official.
 
 After the failure of water-intensive paddy crops, farmers have opted for other crops that require less water. “We supply 3-phase power for nearly 14 hours daily as many in the delta area have opted to cultivate pulses,“ he said. The record demand so far for Tamil Nadu is 15,343 MW met on April 29 last year. “The summer demand has started and we are anticipating a demand of 16,000 MW in the coming months. We will meet it without any shortage or power cuts,“ said the official.
 
 Tangedco's confidence stems from the supply of around 1,000 MW from the two units of  . “Even without supply from Kudankulam we can meet power demand of more than 15,000 MW. With Kudankulam and wind from midMay, we will have excess power to meet demand up to 16,000MW. There are enough transmission lines to transmit  ,“ the official said.
 
 For the third year in succession, Tangedco is confident of managing the summer demand without any outage. It was only in 2015 after several years, Tamil Nadu warded off summer without any power cuts. “In the last three years, we have been meeting new highs in demand and this year too we expect a new record. Along with the demand, consumption of power is recording new high,“ he said.
 
