BENGALURU:   chief minister Siddaramaiah took his pro-Kannada advocacy a step further, saying those coming to Karnataka must "adapt to the   culture and not attack it" and exhorting Kannadigas to send a "stern message" should "those coming from outside" do so. 

 "Neighbours are our brothers and sisters, we must love them. But we must not have any reservations in sending out a stern message that we won't tolerate any attack on our language, land and water. Because protecting all these is our responsibility," he said in a 14-minute video released by the state government on Saturday.
 
 In the past few months, chief minister Siddaramaiah has been vocal on pro-Kannada sentiments - be it on appointing a committee to look into the legality of having a separate state flag, making Kannada mandatory in schools and reservations in jobs. 
 
 As recently as Friday, he directed   to do away with Hindi on signboards and wrote to the central government asking it to review its three-language policy for the Metro. All Kannadigas today must develop pride about our land, water and language. We must help develop our state. It is all ourresponsibility," Siddaramaiah said in the video titled 'Karnataka Namma Hemme' (Karnataka, Our Pride). Officials in the information department, which uploaded the video on YouTube, said the short film was meant to show the chief minister's commitment towards Kannada language and culture.The video goes on to recount the pro-Kannada initiatives of Siddaramaiah not just as chief minister, but during his entire political career. "...My association with people like Devanoora Mahadeva, (Dr) Rajkumar, Pa Mallesh has also helped me...A lot of people have fought for the unification of Karnataka and people are trying to break the state for their selfish gains which I strongly condemn," Siddaramaiah said in the video. 
 
 Party insiders and political observers believe Siddaramaiah's pro-Kannada thrust ahead of the 2018 elections is not just targeted at "exposing"   , but also to keep a regional party like JD(S) at bay.
 
 "The regionalism versus nationalism debate is an important discourse so far as protecting the interests of states in a federal structure goes. We have been the original proponents of this in Karnataka, whether it was river water or farmers' rights. Siddaramaiah is talking about it now, "former prime minister and JD(S) national president H D Deve Gowda told TOI.
 
 Siddaramaiah, the video said, had been a vocal proponent of Kannada since the beginning of his political career, especially as the first president of Kannada Kavalu Samithi in 1983 (now Kannada Development Authority). In the past three weeks, BJP has been criticising Siddaramaiah's actions, accusing him of "dividing the people of India" for political gains.Union minister D V Sadananda Gowda told the media on Sunday that Congress was worse than the British. Former BJP MLA Mukhyamantri Chandru, who has also served as president of  , said, "Siddaramaiah's commitment to Kannada is indisputable and if the present developments yield electoral benefits to Congress, it must only been seen as incidental."
 
 
 
 
 The nine-member committee set up by CM Siddaramaiah to look into the legality of a separate state flag and design one has not met so far. The order constituting the committee was issued on June 6. "No meeting has been convened till now. I've not been part of any other discussion so far," a committee member said. Two others confirmed the same. Dalit poet Siddalingaiah, who has been quiet on the issue so far, said on Sunday, "There is a need for a flag in Karnataka given the present circumstances."
 
 
  
 
