LUCKNOW: The months-long feud in Samajwadi Party's first family, which came to a point of virtual no return on January 1, is likely to end on Friday with a ray of hope emerging after yet another day of hectic parleys to end the deadlock between SP patriarch   and his son  .

 Sources close to the family told TOI that the UP CM was even ready to reach the Amausi airport here on Thursday to receive his father, who flew down from Delhi in the evening. He told his close aides that he had called up his father thrice on Thursday and would go to the airport to receive him. However, he reportedly changed his plan when he came to know that his bête noire   was accompanying Mulayam.
 
 On Thursday morning, Mulayam, accompanied by his younger brother  , flew to Delhi and held a meeting with Amar Singh. Around the same time in Lucknow, Akhilesh held a meeting of SP's elected representatives where more than 250 MLAs, MLCs and MPs signed affidavits pledging their support to him as the national president. He asked party's district units and executive committees chiefs to submit similar affidavits by Friday. Of the 229 MLAs in the SP kitty , as many as 207 were present.
 
 While senior UP minister  , who has been holding long talks with both Akhilesh and Mulayam since Wednesday , said that some “good news is likely to emerge soon“, SP sources said a formal announcement may be made on Friday on Akhilesh continuing as the national president and the two factions withdrawing from   their claims on the 'cycle' symbol.
 
 What prompted the two sides to give a shot at resolving the crisis was the possibility of EC freezing the party symbol. Akhilesh is learnt to have told the party's representatives that he could step down from the post of national president once the assembly elections were over, if Netaji asked him to do so.
 
 It is learnt that during his meeting with Mulayam on Wednesday , Akhilesh told his father to give him three months' time to prove himself and lead the party through the elections.
 
