 Durga puja celebrations are already upon us and with more and more people participating every year, this time, Goddess Durga has been forced to change venues. Over the years, the celebrations have grown by ten folds, and with maximum participation from people and parking issues cropping up every year, this time many organizations have shifted base to a different venue. BT explores more…
  MORE CROWD, LESS SPACE
  One of the biggest associations in Bengaluru — the   — this year has decided to shift the Durga Puja celebrations to Manpho Convention Centre. Speaking about the venue change,  , vice president of the association says, “For the past 12 years, The Bengali Association was organizing the celebrations at the RBANMS College Grounds, close to the association premises. However, this year, since the college administration has created a football and cricket academy, the space has been reduced to one-third of what was available.”
  Similarly, the Assam Society of Bangalore too, decided to change venue this year. “For the first three years, we organized the celebrations in Koramangala. But since we witnessed a large crowd last year, we moved out of that area and decided to have the celebrations in HSR Layout, at a bigger venue,” says Hirak Jyoti Kakati, General Secretary of the society, adding that with the change, it has also solved parking problems. “Earlier, we used to have a lot of issues with regards to parking. However, ever since we decided to shift the celebrations to HSR Layout, the parking woes have been solved too,” he says.
  In addition to this, this year, the organizers are also focusing on bigger food courts. “While shifting the venue may cause a little hassle, it will allow us to have bigger food courts and more space, thereby making the celebrations a lot more fun,” adds Dileep.
  Shifting venues will see more participation from locals
  Priya Mukherjee, member of the Bannerghatta Durga Foundation says that shifting venues will help in more participation from locals. “Durga Puja celebrations are not just restricted to Bengalis. This year, we are moving to a different venue as we want to do a village-themed puja (Gram Bangla). We cannot do a village-themed puja inside four walls. So, we decided that by taking out the celebrations to a bigger venue, not only will we be able to increase the scale of the pujo, but we will see more participation from locals as well,” says Priya.
  But what about the footfall, we ask the organizers? “Obviously, if we move the celebrations to a different venue every year, it will affect the participation and we will lose our crowd,” says Hirak. But moving to a different place can go both ways, feels Dileep. “It is a litmus test for us. It is the first time in 12 years that we have changed the venue, but in order to accommodate more people, have better parking facility and more food stalls, this was our best option,” he says.
  Priya also feels that changing venue will work in their favour. “Footfall will automatically be there for Maa Durga. It is about reaching out to people. People won’t mind travelling at lengths to be in her (Goddess Durga) presence,” she sums up.
