LUCKNOW: The   (SBM) may have begun in 2014 after which cities were given time till October 2, 2018 to turn  , Lucknow is still struggling to sensitise people against its ill-effects. As against the target to build 21,000 individual toilet seats in these four years,   has been able to build only about 400 so far.

 As a result human waste pollutes railway station, bus station, roadsides, vacant plots and even areas near parks. Taking cognizance of LMC's laxity, chief minister Aditya Nath Yogi has set December 2017 deadline to free Lucknow of open defecation, almost a year prior to Modi’s deadline for rest of the country.
 
 LMC recently drew flak from urban development authorities and residents of Lucknow for doing miserably at the recently announced Swachh Bharat Ranking scoring 269th rank among 500 cities of India with just about 43% marks, despite being a state capital. A big reason for this debacle was attributed to poor waste management and a large number of slum dwellers still resorting to open defecation in the city.
 
 Making a city completely free of this shameful practice was the largest challenge in SBM which Lucknow was barely able to achieve. Over 30,000 people in the city ease themselves in open fields and roadsides. As per the latest survey of LMC, the city needs around 21,000 individual toilet seats and about 1,500 community  . In stark contrast, LMC has been able to build only around 400 seats in each category despite Centre and state government giving sufficient financial help.
 
 Under SBM, Centre and state government extend Rs 8,000 to each applicant who wants to build a toilet seat in his house. For community toilets, the government extends Rs 52,000 while rest has to be managed by LMC. Despite availability of funds and almost three years already into the mission, LMC has been unable to deliver desired results mainly because of poor awareness among people about its ill-effects on health and environment.
 
 LMC’s official in-charge told TOI, “We received very few applications for setting up individual toilets and even those who got funds didn’t utilise it for making toilets seats as some said their account wasn’t credited with Rs 8000, while others said that cost of concrete, cement and other construction material is too high to be managed in the amount and the idea couldn’t be implemented successfully.”
 
 Taking cue from the past, LMC has now engaged its engineering department to visit daily all places prone to open defecation and educate people about the SBM’s targets and government’s help. The engineers will also help them get money in their account and set up toilet seats through subsidised cost of construction material which they procure from their vendors.
 Over 30,000 people in the city ease themselves in fields
 
