In utter disregard to the city's heritage, the Metro Rail authorities will soon pull down a portion of the grand stonepillared structure of   dharmasala opposite the Hyderabad railway station in Nampally . This old rest house, standing on Ajanta-style carved stone pillars, will make way for the  

 The building, constructed during the regime of the seventh Nizam Mir Osman Ali Khan, was inspired by the unique architecture of Ajanta and Ellora caves.Incidentally , it was the Nizam VII who took great pains to restore the paintings in the famous caves on the outskirts of Aurangabad in Maharashtra.
 
 The dharmasala was opened in 1940 for passengers arriving at the Hyderabad railway station and has been providing accommodation at nominal payment for the last eight decades. Most of those staying at the choultry are people visiting the city for advanced medical treatment.
 
 In all, there are eight stone pillars supporting the façade of the dharmasala. Thanks to the efforts of heritage activists, these pillars will be relocated even as the facade and part of the building are pulled down for the Metro Rail.
 
 “We will relocate them in the corridor as they are architecturally important and represent a unique style,“ said Anil Pitti, who manages the dharmasala.An expert will be hired to carefully retrieve the stone pillars, he added. The pillars, which now bear the weight of the facade, will serve as decorative pieces later.
 
 P Anuradha Reddy , convener of the Hyderabad  , said that had not activists intervened, these pillars would have been lost forever along with part of the structure.
 
 “It's unfortunate that the Metro Rail project has been taken up as an   from Koti to Lakdikapul. There are a number of heritage structures on this route. The elevated corridor has blocked the view of the imposing Moazzam Jahi Market, the Hyderabad railway station and the state Assembly building.
 
  Ideally, this route should have been executed underground. The Nampally metro station has been planned right over the Ram Nivas dharmasala.It should have been constructed a few yards away to protect the  . Incidentally, the dharmasala also reflects the local style of architecture,“ Anuradha Reddy said.
 
