Raju Ajmera, a businessman based in Mumbai, decided to celebrate his elder son, Hardik’s 32nd birthday a little differently. And he did that by stocking boxes of puri, chhole and sheera in a community refrigerator installed at  , Andheri. “Our son is in the US and we miss him. On his birthday, my wife and I donated food on his behalf. We celebrated the occasion by giving back to society.” For many like Ajmera, the refrigerator fulfils their need to donate food to the needy.
Called the community refrigerator, the concept, which first made its appearance abroad and in Kerala, has quietly made its way in to Mumbai. Standing in an unassuming corner of the suburb, it was installed on January 15 by the members of a welfare association from the vicinity. With the motto of ‘A step towards dignified living’, the idea behind the initiative is to provide food to those in need and prevent wastage of food as well. 
 
 
  
  
 The services start at 6.30 am and goes on till 11 in the night. While donations are made by locals at any point during the day, the association members also ensure that there is no shortage of supply. Besides putting a CCTV, two helpers ensure the smooth functioning of the cause. Says  , secretary of the association, “Instead of keeping a refrigerator outside a restaurant, which puts more focus on the eatery, we decided to install it near a place of worship that people visit daily. The food is supplied on a daily basis by a restaurant nearby, residents of complexes in the area and people from our group. We have also kept disposable plates and glasses.” This ensures that people take the food as a matter of right rather than beg for it.
 
 
 
 There’s an alternate arrangement for those who want to donate food, but don’t have time to spare for it. At such times, monetary donations help caterer Varsha Bhagchandani prepare daily food items like dal, rice, roti, sabzi or fulfil requests like vada pav. “I visit the place almost daily and serve homemade food. The joy is inexplicable. I receive orders from my friends and residential complexes as well,” she says.
 Case in point is management consultant Bindu Mehta, who recently donated `5,000. “Supply can be a problem at times, so I decided to donate money and streamline the food distribution over 10 days. I have started spreading the word on groups via WhatsApp and whenever anyone from there has a big party, the excess food is donated there.”
 
 
 The refrigerator provides a platform for people to donate food on special occasions like birthdays, anniversaries and so on. Tarit Mehta, who is based in Dubai, wanted to donate fruits on his mother’s death anniversary last month. A fruit vendor, right next to the refrigerator’s spot, helped in making fruit plates to mark the occasion. Tarit says, “My mother loved fruits, so I asked members from the group to serve a mix of pineapples, muskmelons and watermelon. It is a great and thoughtful way of marking occasions like these.” 
 Gopal Hegde, president of the association, adds, “Often, senior citizens from middle or lower middle-class families pick up food from here. We have also seen rickshaw drivers, courier boys, and people working at small stalls picking up food from here. Their reason is that they get bored of eating the same kind of food every day. While we try our best, it is difficult to keep a tab on everybody.”
 
 
 
 Members of the group have started sending across letters and notices to housing societies in the area to spread the word on the community refrigerator. The effort is paying off as the number of people donating leftover food has been going up. Chetan Kumbhat, owner of a nearby restaurant, adds, “We used to give the leftover food to watchmen from nearby societies. But ever since we came to know of this, our delivery boy goes there almost daily towards the end of day with food in large containers.”
 
 
 
 Many restaurants have approached the group and are planning to donate food on a regular basis. Adds Mehta, “We are planning to hire delivery boys to collect food from residential complexes and hotels.”
 
