Mumbai: It was another day of confusion and anxiety for   aspirants as institutes scrambled to complete first round admissions and the education department to announce college vacancies on Friday.

 The education department was supposed to announce the vacancies at colleges for the second round at 5pm on Friday but kept postponing and managed to do so only around 11pm. Only a handful seats are available in top colleges for the second round of admissions, which begins on Saturday
 
 In the first round, which concluded on Friday afternoon, 79,474 students secured their seats. Another 32,477 have already secured   under the minority quota. 
 
 With over one lakh admissions now confirmed, there are about 1.36 lakh students who are expected to apply in the second round. These students can alter their choice of colleges on the basis of first round cut-offs and vacancies. 
 
 The education department had to give an additional half an hour to colleges on Friday to fill up details of students they had admitted up to noon. “The upload link stopped working at 12.05pm and we could not enter details of six admissions,” said a junior college staffer. After officials from various colleges went to the department with complaints, half an hour was given from 5-5.30pm, during which details of almost 500 students were uploaded.
 
 An official from the education department said there could be more colleges who could not upload all details since the extra hour was given post-working hours. “We have not received any complaints since evening but if there are requests, we will allow colleges to upload the details today (Saturday),” said BB  , deputy director of education, Mumbai.
 
 Friday also saw scores of parents and students missing the admission deadline. “I called the college and was told admissions are open until 3pm but when I reached at 1pm, they refused. My child stands to lose a year,” said a parent. Another parent complained that they missed the deadline as the college asked them to get a demand draft, which took long.
 
 Over 10,000 students who were allotted their first preference did not report for admission and will now be left out of the process. “These students are considered out of the system at least until August 9. These students have not reported to the college in the past three and a half days. This is unfair to other students,” said Chavan. He said the students may now get a chance only after the fourth round is over.
 
