SRINAGAR/NEW DELHI: The attack on a bus carrying   to Jammu on Monday was preceded by strikes at a police bunker at Batengoo and a naka at Khanabal in Anantnag district, sources said. It was near Batengoo that the terrorists had opened fire on the bus around 8.20pm. 

  The firing at the police bunker as well as the naka led to an exchange of fire, but there was no report of injuries. Central security sources said the area where the bus was attacked has   presence, but   also has boots on the ground there. The attack came as security forces were anticipating efforts by Pakistan-based jihadi groups to stage a strike around the first death anniversary, July 8, of Hizbul commander Burhan Wani. 
 
  Sources said there were general inputs regarding a threat to Amarnath yatris, but no specific input indicating the time or place of a possible attack. "The response to the last few incidents in the Valley has been strong. The terrorists are under pressure to show their worth and found an easy target in the Amarnath yatris," said a top intelligence functionary. 
 
  The bus had not been registered w ith the Amarnath board, which is why it did not have adequate security cover. CRPF chief Rajeev Bhatnagar said, "The bus was not part of the official convoy. It was not registered with the Amarnath board, as required for all non-official vehicles headed for the shrine. The official convoy had passed the spot at 7pm, under the cover of J&K police and CRPF. The security personnel had withdrawn from the area by the time the attack took place ." 
 
  The advisory issued by the shrine board clearly asks yatris to register as this helps in security arrangements. Also, they are asked to start early so they can reach the base camp before sunset. The advisory warns them against being on the highway after sunset. 
 
 The CRPF said three policemen were also injured in the shoot-out. "The terrorists who attacked the bus in the evening were waiting for the vehicle since afternoon," a senior police officer said. Interestingly, the camps of the Kashmir police special operation group and the Army were just 500m away from the site of the firing, eyewitnesses said. 
 
 Security forces were rushed to the area after the attack, but it was difficult to look for the assailants in the darkness. Amarnath Yatra was resumed on Sunday after a day-long suspension over apprehensions of a law-and-order situation in Kashmir.
 
 
