NOIDA: One of the most high- profile seats in Uttar Pradash, elections are keenly contested in Noida. This year it’s no different, and the entry of   (40), son of Union home minister Rajnath Singh, has only increased the heat in the political circles.

 There are nearly 5.23 lakh voters spread over urban and rural areas and developmental issues also differ. In the 2012 delimitation exercise, Noida assembly seats was carved out of Dadri. 
 
 Though there are people of different castes in the constituency, no single caste is dominant in the region. According to candidates, election in Noida is based on developmental issues rather than on caste equations.
 
 Most of the Noida residents are professionals, businessmen, students, farmers, retired army officers, self-employed, etc. Those living in sectors expect a better law and order, infrastructure development, smooth traffic and a check on pollution.
 
 The rural areas need development, employment, health and sanitation works. For some in the rural areas, land acquisition is still an issue as they feel that they did not get the share of the developmental pie.
 
 Entrepreneurs and businessmen talk about making the city corruption-free. “Noida has grown as an economic hub. The business community will be happy if there is a check on corrupt practices,” said president, Noida Entrepreneurship Association, Vipin Malhan, who recently joined BJP.
 
 Residents also feel that there is a need to check crime in the city. “People feel unsafe going out at night. There is a need to restore the faith of people by improving the law and order,” said R K Gupta, a resident of Sector 46, and head, commerce department, Government PG College, Noida. He said that the government should also start more educational institutions in the area as there is only one government college in Noida.
 
 Sukhveer Pahalwan, a resident of Sarfabad village, said that development is uneven in sectors and villages. “Nearly 10 persons died in my village six months ago due to a mysterious fever. There is poor sanitation in the area. The government had acquired our land and promised that our children will get 25% reservation in private schools. But nothing happened,” he said.
 
 He demanded that the state and the Union governments announce schemes for people’s welfare every year. “The government makes announcement in budget claiming that so much money have been allotted for education, health and employment. Where does the money go? The local people do not get the benefits of such schemes,” he said. He said that all these issues will matter in the election. 
 
 Though there are a total of 14 candidates in Noida this elections, the contest is likely between Pankaj Singh of BJP, Sunil Chaudhury of SP and Ravi Kant Mishra of BSP. In the 2012 assembly elections, BJP’s Mahesh Sharma defeated Om Dutt Sharma by a margin of 27,664 votes. Mahesh Sharma, however, vacated the seat after he won the Lok Sabha polls in 2014 from Gautam Budh Nagar seat. In the bypolls held in 2014, BJP’s Vimla Batham got elected.
 
 Ganesh Shankar Tripati, a retired IAS officer, who also served in Gautam Budh Nagar and Noida Authority, said it is premature to say who will win the election. “But the developmental issues will have a major role in deciding the fate of candidates,” he said.
 
 
