When students of  , near   got to know from their teachers that an actress would visiting their school, they learnt their lessons well and rehearsed a play to present their best for their special guest. The guest for the day was Dia Mirza, who visited the school to talk to students on topics like hygiene and cleanliness, as part of her engagement with the NGO Save the Children. Students were excited to take her through their 'happy box room' which was full of toys to help kids learn about cleanliness. She even played games with them. "Kitni tayyari ki mujhse baat karne ke liye?" she asked the students, who giggled at the question and said, "Hum toh roz aise hi bolte hain."

 
  
  Dia played saanp-seedhi with students
 
 
 
  
 From entering the classroom to playing saanp-seedhi with students, everything reminded Dia of her school days. "It’s so much fun to be here. Children are my favourite people. These are kids who come from slums and have such pure spirit and energy, it is contagious," said the actress. She added that during her visits to different schools and interactions with children she gets to learn a lot, too. "Like today, I learnt six steps of washing hands properly from them. I believe that you teach best what you most need to learn, and these children are actually adopting the role of teacher and teaching each others hygiene and sanitation through games. As they are learning they are also teaching others. I also believe in 'each one, teach one', these children would go home and teach their parents, siblings about the importance of cleanliness, hygiene and sanitation," added Dia, the ambassador for Swachh Bharat Mission's youth-based 'Swachh Saathi' programme.
 
  
  Hameda Alvi, the principal
 
 
 
 
 She also told students about her school days, "My school's name was Vidyaranya High School. Vidya means knowledge, vidya means padhai – padhai jo samajh na aaye is not padhai – vidya samajh hoti hai. Aranya means forest. In my school, no one was given marks, ranks or grades. There was no competition. They believed that we should not study for getting marks, but instead, to understand and become better people."
 
  She added that marks system "cuts the child's mind down to size and any human being must be taught to learn and to understand and not be bothered about results." She said, "I believe that board exams should be scrapped altogether. I will celebrate the day it is scrapped, because I think that children do not learn in fear. My school’s principal believed that no education should be received in fear, we were free of fear and we were constantly trying to outdo ourselves."
 
 
