LUCKNOW: For two years now,   city, near Shaheed Path, has been facing the menace of  . Residents have filed a complaint with the forest department but have received no help.

 Now the residents have planned to boycott elections to draw the attention of the authorities towards their plight. “Initially, the herd was small but now the number has increased and we need to get rid of the animals,” said RWA general secretary Mrityunjay Singh. 
 
 “We have stopped planting trees in front of our houses,” said resident Rashmi Singh. The parks in the society have hardly any vegetation left. “The new and soft leaves are eaten by blue bulls, what we are left with are stunted plants,” she said. 
 
 The ground where mass plantation was done by the society is bare; the trees have been munched on by the animals and only tree-guards are left. Behind the colony lies a patch of thicket and the boundary wall there is broken, allowing easy access to the herd. 
 
 Similar patches of thicket exist within the 145 acre boundary of the society as well, giving the herd ample space and the pond provides it with drinking water. Being a residential colony, there is no dearth of food for animals. 
 
 “Each time these animals eat up plants, residents call out to us to chase them away. It’s also scary; shooing away such big animals is not easy,” said a gardener in the society, Sajjan. 
 
 Moreover, their colour helps them camouflage. “I stopped going out for an evening stroll,” said resident Anjana Tiwari.
 
 When TOI visited the colony, some children were cycling on the road. The herd happened to pass by and the children ran for cover. 
 
 “We avoid using certain roads to go to school as we know the herd would be present there in the morning,” said Mitul Tiwari. 
 
 “Where the society stands today used to be a jungle. We often hear about pythons and other wildlife seen in the area and our team goes and rescues the animal,” said range officer, Sarojininagar, MP Gautam.
 
 To rid the place of blue bulls, the society needs the boundary wall to be raised and repaired. On the suggestions of the department, residents also burnt thickets to scare the animals away but it does not help. 
 
 Forest staff from the wildlife wing can also be deputed in the colony if the society is ready to pay. 
 
 
