THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: After a massive reshuffle of IPS officers at the level of SPs, the government is all set to make some major changes at the top police brass. 

 According to top government sources, present head of state intelligence, ADGP R Sreelekha, is likely to be replaced soon. It is reliably learnt that the order in this regard will be issued once the file regarding the same gets clearance from chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan. 
 
 Sources said that the government was unhappy with the performance of the intelligence department. In the latest instance, the intelligence had not been able to give timely inputs to the chief minister about the recent protest move by the IAS officers, including the meeting that was convened at the chamber of additional chief secretary (finance) K M Abraham, to avail one-day casual leave last Monday.
 
 It is reliably learnt that a couple of top police officers, including DGP (coastal security)  , are being considered for the post of intelligence director. It is also learnt that ADGP Tomin J Thachankary is likely to be given an appointment in the police force. Thachankary has been out of police force for long time now, and he is presently holding the charge of   (KBPS) after he landed in a controversy in connection with his birthday celebrations in road transport offices while serving as transport commissioner.
 
 Sources added that the government is likely to replace the ADGP (north zone) K Sudesh Kumar, a position for which ADGP (headquarters) Rajesh Dewan is being considered. It is learnt that Sudesh Kumar is likely to be considered for the position of ADGP (armed police battalion). It is also learnt that ADGP K Padmakumar who is currently the chief vigilance officer in KSEB, is likely to be considered for the post of director of   in Thrissur or as ADGP (coastal security).
 
 Sources added that at least one of the range IGs are also likely to be replaced in the fresh shuffle. The government is also likely to appoint a new head for the crime branch, which is presently being held by Rajesh Dewan as additional charge. The crime branch was left with the vacancy of an ADGP ever since   was appointed as transport commissioner in place of Thachankary. It is also learnt that one of the IGs who is currently on state deputation will also come back to the police force as the force is short of IG-level officers. Last week, the government had replaced 16 SPs from the law and order posts.
 
 
