AHMEDABAD: The   has not just only stepped up their vigil in the areas that migratory birds throng to, but have also decided to carry out postmortems of birds where more than two individuals from a flock are found dead.

 Officials said that at sites like Nalsarovar, Thol, Flamingo City in Kutch and even Khijadia in Jamnagar, officials have been asked to keep surveillance and have been told to not take any death lightly.
 
   , the deputy conservator of forests at Nalsarovar said: “We have been extra vigilant and teams have been formed both in Nalsarovar and Thol. We have asked all beat guards to monitor their areas closely. If they find suspicious deaths, they have to immediately report it to senior officers.” He said that the department has, so far, not noticed any large number of deaths in a given flock. Only isolated deaths have been reported. Prajapati further said that he has also been visiting the area. He said the department was not taking any chances, as there are more than two lakh birds at the Nalsarovar lake. He further said that the department has also asked officials to closely watch deaths among poultry in their areas.
 
 Officials said that doctors from the veterinary department have also visited the area and have taken stock of the situation. The officials said that the central government has issued a directive that all bird sanctuaries and areas with lakes seeing a high volume of migratory birds should keep close watch on the situation and notify the state and central governments in case of any suspicious deaths of birds. 
 
 The full support of the government of India’s health department, urban development department, environment department apart from animal husbandry department is being extended to contain and control  , the guidelines said.
 
 Principal chief conservator of forests   said: “We have asked all birds sanctuaries to carry out extra monitoring and officials are to carry out postmortems of every suspicious death. We are not taking things lightly and are extra vigilant,” he said. He also said that no suspicious deaths have been reported in the state so far.
 
