NEW DELHI: Pak-based Lashkar-e-Tayyeba (Let) terrorist  , charge-sheeted by the National Investigation Agency ( ), was allegedly part of three different   training modules in Pakistan since 2012 before being finally launched into India.
 
  The charge-sheet details “rigorous” training that Ali underwent across the border giving a glimpse into the training conducted by LeT for its cadres. The first training period (Duara-e-Talba) for Ali lasted 15 days during May-June 2012 at camp in Manshera. Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Pakistan.
  
  During this phase Ali was reportedly given religious indoctrination besides undergoing physical exercise and weapons training. He was under tutelage of three trainers – Saria, Abdullah and Kabullah all from LeT.
  
  The second phase of training was between Sept-Oct 2014 and this lasted for 21 days. In this phase, Ali was taught to handle AK-47 rifle, pistols, grenade-lobbing besides physical exercise. He reportedly underwent training from one Rehman Chettaha, Saiffique, Abu Bakar, Usman and Hubaib, NIA charge-sheet with ET said. And the last phase was in April 2016 that lasted 28 days and where he was taught how to handle GPS and VHF sets, besides map reading, reading of matrix sheets and field craft and tactics. At the end of final training Ali went to LeT launching pad in PoK last June from where was instructed to be infiltrated into India.
  
  “On or around June 7 last year Ali along with one Musab, one Umar and Abu Saad (who was also one of Ali’s trainers) went to the LeT ‘launching pad’ at village Mandakuli in the Leepa Valley of Muzaffarabad, PoK. At the Mandakuli launching pad, Ali was received by one Abu Haider, the NIA charge-sheet said. Haider was the commander of the Mandakuli launching pad. Two more cadres of LeT,   and Abdullah, were already at the launching pad. On June 8, 2016 two more LeT cadres,   and Abu Saad, joined the group, according to NIA charge-sheet on Ali and his training and LeT plans in J & K. Ali and other cadres were briefed by one Abu Haider about routes that they would follow to infiltrate into Jammu and Kashmir and plan terror strikes. The briefing was conducted via state-of-the art technology and Google Earth application. 
