NEW DELHI:  , organised by  , which had started from Mandsaur, Madhya Pradesh, concluded its 13-day   at Jantar Mantar on Tuesday. The committee led a coalition of over 150 farmers’ organisations on the march from a village in Mandsaur where six   had been shot by the police last month.

 They had two specific demands: a one-time loan   to make them debt-free and remunerative prices for their crops. 
 
 A poignant note was added to the event by a skit performed by the children of the farmers who had committed suicide. One such child, Ashok Patil, told the gathering: “I am suffering because my father committed suicide. But I want to tell all the farmers of this country that suicide is not an option -- the only option is to fight for our rights.”
 
 The protest will continue tomorrow with a “potato andolan”. Potatoes will be distributed for free to press home the demand for fair pricing. 
 
 MP Raju Shetty, Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana leader and one of the main organisers along with Swaraj Abhiyan’s  , said: “The Narendra Modi government had promised to waive the loans of farmers but later said it wasn’t possible. We have not been told what’s the alternative.” Shetty said he had campaigned for Modi expecting this promise to be fulfilled.
 
 Dr. Sunilam, moderator of the Sansad, demanded that action must be taken against the police officers who had shot the six farmers. Civil activist   added: “The latest schemes of the government have become anti-farmer and pro-corporate. The government supports products such as GM mustard which benefit the corporates but destroy farming. The government also gives the corporates a lot of leeway with their debts which is not offered to the farmers.”
 
 “It is not the farmers that are under debt but the whole country that is under the debt of the farmers,” said Yadav. “We are not asking for a debt waiver but freedom from debt.” 
 
 Social activist Medha Patkar, CPI-M leader Sitaram Yechury and   MP Arvind Sawant were among those who attended the protest.
 
 
