The man-eater   who created a terror by attacking several villagers, was finally caught in the buffer area of the Tadoba Andhari Tiger Reserve recently. The three-year-old tigress has been shifted to the   now. Post the rescue operation, the tigress is being closely monitored by the veterinarians and Gorewada authorities. We bring you the details on her rehab… 

 
 
 The tigress is now in quarantine phase at the Gorewada rescue centre. The big cat is kept in a cell alone, near a male tiger Sahebrao’s cell. Assistant conservator of forests, Gorewada, Vishal Borhade informs, “The volatile tigress is in captivity, so it will take some time for her to get accustomed to the new place. However, the cell has an attached chamber for the tigress’ day and night crawl sessions. We are closely supervising her every day and trying to understand her behaviour. Human contact is kept as minimal as possible with her. Though her feeder and caretaker are well-trained, they have been strictly advised not to go close to the cage. Also, when her cage is being cleaned, the tigress is shifted to another attached enclosure.”
 
 
 
 Veterinary expert Dr Vinod Dhoot who is treating the mercurial tigress says she is in stress right now and it will take a while for her to become normal. He adds, “Tigress is on  . Every day, a tablet is given to her along with the food. She is on a diet of buffalo meat. I make frequent rounds and keep tabs on her when she is hungry and also to check how she is reacting to medicines. We shall bring changes in the treatment process according to her response.” 
  
 
 
 When asked whether the tigress will be shifted back to the Tadoba jungles soon, Borhade replies, “So far her behaviour is normal; she has not tried to attack anyone. When someone gets close, she roars, which is a natural reaction of a   animal, but she has shown no sign of aggression yet. We will take decision about her stay only when she is completely fit. Later, when we get instructions from the higher authorities, we shall release her at the Tadoba jungle or keep her at Gorewada zoo-cum-rescue centre.” 
 
