CHANDIGARH: Oxytocin is known as the ' ' because it's released when  , but in  ,   are a quick route to a high. Residents of the village, where cattle rearing and milk selling is one of the main occupations, call oxytocin shots 'buffalo injections'. 

 Researchers from the psychiatry department at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Chandigarh, discovered this unusual addiction when they were conducting a study in Dhanas village, on the outskirts of Chandigarh. "The villagers told me about a person who used 'buffalo syringes' for a high. We'd never heard of it. The drug abuser proudly claimed that he had started this and had taught his peers to use oxytocin," said Dr B S Chavan, the main investigator and head of the psychiatry department at GMCH, adding that they met other users in the village as well.
 
 Oxytocin, which is used to help induce labour in women and is a prescription drug, has been banned for veterinary use as the hormone enables faster milk production but can harm cattle. Though illegal, its use in the dairy industry is rampant. The formulation is the same for humans and animals, and the vials can be misused, say experts.
 
 The GMCH researchers were conducting a study on the factors that inhibit people from getting help for drug addiction, and their report, 'Overcoming barriers to community participation in drug dependence treatment: An ethnography approach', was recently published in the Indian Journal of Social Psychiatry. Dr Chavan said the farmer had tried the oxytocin injection which he used for his buffaloes. "We still have to study the contents of the syringe in detail as well as establish the number of users. However, based on our knowledge of addicts, it is known that they like to try something new every time," said Dr Chavan. The cost of an ampule of oxytocin is about Rs 50.
 
 Other experts say they have not come across this addiction though it's not unheard of. "We have heard about such cases but have never reported such an addiction," said  , National Drug Dependence Treatment Centre, AIIMS. Dr Savita Malhotra, member, Child and Adolescent Psychiatry Section of World Psychiatric Association, said, "It is a love hormone and gives feelings of pleasure and happiness. 
 
 Therefore, it could be used. I haven't come across such cases. But, these drugs are cheap and openly available so it can be used quite easily."
 
