KOLKATA: Guests at a wedding in   of Assam were surprised when a Sikh gentleman got out of a hired car and hugged the father of the groom. Both had tears running down their eyes. The gentleman who arrived by car was Lt Gen (retd) Charanjit Singh former DG, Artillery,  . The groom’s father was Hav (retd) P Barua, Few were aware of the unique relationship the two shared.

 “Our association dates back to 1986, when I was posted as a young officer in 154 Medium Regiment. He was then a soldier in the regime-nt. We became buddies and our relationship flourished. A few years ago, I learnt Barua was ill. I wanted to visit him but Barua insisted he was receiving proper medical care and told me to time my visit during his son’s we-dding. I did just that,” Lt Gen Singh said from Gurgaon.
 
 On April 20, the retired officer flew from Delhi to Jorhat and reached Barua’s village. “It was an emotional moment. I met Barua’s friends and family. It was like a meeting between friends and the whole family welcomed me with open arms. It would be the same if Barua visits our home in Gurgaon. The relationship with a buddy is for life. No matter what people think, I never asked Barua to do menial jobs. I polished my boots. On occasions, when he didn’t like the shine, he insisted on polishing them again to ensure I didn’t cut a sorry figure,” Lt Gen Singh said.
 
 The dictionary defines ‘buddy’ is a close friend. In the Indian Army though, the term ‘buddy’ goes far beyond this. According to a Special Forces officer: “During operations, I trust my buddy with my life. He does the same.” Former director general military operations and GOC, Bengal Area, Lt Gen A K Chaudhary (retd), had told TOI how he shared a single blanket with his buddy during operations in Kashmir. “Sometimes, young wives get rattled at the ‘command’ that a ‘soldier or JCO’ buddy wields over her ‘officer’ husband,” he said.
 
 According to Brig A K Sanyal (retd), former CO of 1/3 Gorkha Rifles: “Babu Ram Thapa was assigned my buddy. He would always remind me that I was an officer and make sure I was never ticked off by seniors. ‘Wear your uniform properly, Sir. You better improve your game, Sir. You were looking very tired today. Better get into shape’,” he would say.
 
 “There may be some bad hats who make their buddies do menial jobs but such people exist everywhere in society. In the Army, the buddy holds a special place,” Lt Gen Singh added.
 
