Amravati: Maharashtra’s minister of state for home Dr   is man confident of a victory in Amravati graduate’s constituency despite a slew of allegations against him by his rivals. Having made strong debut in the state legislative council in 2010, Patil has had a meteoric rise in his career. Patil found time to speak to TOI recently at Rathinagar.

  Excerpts from an interview...
 
 Your rivals allege that you had been disloyal to graduates of this constituency, did nothing for them in six years and even lost your membership to Amravati University (AU) senate.
 
  They are not a jury to judge whether I have really done something for graduates. It is the people who will judge me. I organized 22 employment fares in five districts and brought industrialists from across Maharashtra. I also organized a mega job fare in Amravati in the presence of chief mnister Devendra Fadnavis. Before criticizing me, my rivals should have done something first. It is very easy to blame someone, but very difficult to do something. As for losing the senate membership, it was complete miscommunication. The university sent invitations to my old address but I had moved to my new house. It’s silly that it happened.
 
 The teaching fraternity is saying that the issue of their 71 days’ payment of strike period has not been resolved by the government yet.
 
  It was wrongly conveyed that a negative stand has been taken by the government in the court. The fact is that the court has directed the state to constitute a committee and hold hearings with office-bearers of MFUCTO. It is true that MFUCTO refused to come in front of the committee as it wanted it to be headed not by the secretary but by a retired judge. Now, after a series of dialogues between MFUCTO and ministers concerned with my and Dr. Sunil Deshmukh’s intervention, the government has accepted to reconstitute the committee. I am optimistic that this meeting will deliver results.
 
 What will you count as your achievements?
 
  For the first time, our government decided to give 20% grant to unaided schools. We have introduced smart cards for medical reimbursement to teachers. I have improved the functioning of joint director’s office, which has come as a great relief to teachers.
 
 One of your rivals, Prashant Kate, has filed an application against you under section 340 of CrPC with the district election officer.
 
  I don’t care. He made similar allegations before and the court had passed a verdict against him.
 
 Who is your main rival and how do you rate your chances?
 
  I am my own competitor. I am going to win by a record margin, but at the same time I am not underestimating my rivals. Last time, my opposition was ethical, but this time it is not the same.
 
 
