Long sleeves kept the scissors snip-happy, out went the shoes with the socks, earrings and nose pins came off too, and in a few cases, scarvessacred threadsrosaries worn as a part of religious beliefs, too, had to be removed if the wearer did not land up at the examination venue at the stipulated time. The severe dress code imposed on those who were taking the   exam on Sunday has us wondering if this otherwise laudable exercise to curtail rampant cheating may not have gone a bit overboard, and perhaps bizarrely so.To be fair, the NEET website had very prominently listed the do's and don'ts, and students who cried saying they were caught unawares have only themselves to blame for being inattentive. However, for those whose biggest transgression might have been not reading the instructions posted on the website, the ignominy of their sleeves being cut, the inconvenience of walking barefoot into the examination hall, or the sentimental burden of having to remove their religious effects undoubtedly added to the examination stress they were already under.

 Given how widespread the problem of cheating is, the intention behind this stringent move is praiseworthy, but shouldn't, couldn't it have been better publicised and executed is what many are asking. Chennai Times is in on this debate...
 
 THERE IS A REASON WHY THE RULES ARE SO STRICT
 
 I don't think students take these rules seriously . They have introduced these strict rules only because there were defaulters in the past. There is no point in creating a hue and cry about the checking if you haven't read the instructions clearly . Because of those two or three students who cheated during the exams, the rest also come under the radar. It is sad, but there is no other choice. There is a reason why the rules are so strict and one must understand that. I know a lot of students from Dindigul who wrote   at Coimbatore and they had to go through severe checking. My question is, when the rules are clearly mentioned, why take chances? If you are writing the exam, you need to be doubly careful and go through all the rules carefully.
 
 --Dr Ramanathan, parent
 
 STUDENTS HAVE COMPLETE DISREGARD FOR RULES
 
 First of all, I think students in   have no regard for rules. I run an academy and conduct tests every Monday . I make sure the students are prepared and are seated by 9.30 for a 10am exam. But none of them come on time and don't listen to the instructions. They would sit in the hall and chitchat without understanding the importance of this exam. They have complete disregard for rules. NEET is a new concept for a lot of them, so they are just focusing on the questions, portions and other things. They don't pay enough attention to the rules. Last year, too, there was thorough checking and a checklist was given with do's and don'ts. Nobody followed it. It was a big issue then, and it is a big issue now.Each year they have to be reminded about these rules. In 2015, students had Bluetooth speakers on their buttons and collars! So, I support this strict checking.
 
 All the rules are clearly mentioned in the prospectus and web site, what more do they want?
 -Dr Rajesh Rajasekhar, director at Pioneer Academy
 
 WHAT HAPPENED TO THE STUDENTS IS DISGRACEFUL
 
 What had happened to the students in the name of screening is condemnable by all means. The instructions which were laid out hadn't reached the students and parents. When there are enough ways to examine students and prevent them from cheating, why did the concerned people resort to methods which dampen their confidence and preparation?
 This was a highly competitive exam and a small distraction would spoil their hard work. Also, nobody has the right to impose any dress code on students while they appear for the exam.
 
 -Jayaprakash Gandhi, Career Counsellor & Analyst
 
 ALL THE CHECKING GOT US VERY STRESSED
 
 Many had no clue about the rules and were taken aback when they reached their respective centres. We knew that students were not allowed to wear big buttons, chains, anklets, earrings, nose pins, etc. But we didn't expect that there would be more stringent rules. A lot of people who wore jeans to the exam were made to wait for a long time and were checked thrice. Thankfully , I went wearing a churidar. It was the most important exam for many of us.
 
 -Shalini N, a student who appeared for NEET
 
 STUDENTS FROM OUTSIDE CHENNAI HAD NO CLUE ABOUT THE INSTRUCTIONS
 
 The instructions weren't clear to us. We got to know what was happening only after we reached the centre. My daughter wrote the exam in Maduravoyal and this centre had a lot of students from other towns in Tamil Nadu appearing for the exam. They had no idea about the instructions. The checking was very strict and the students were unnecessarily being worked up. There were no provisions for parents as well. We had to stand in the sun for long. They could have at least provided a room where we could sit. The invigilators could have been a little more helpful.
 
 -Nallaiya Veeriya, a software engineer
 
 INCIDENTS LIKE THIS WILL MAKE STUDENTS WEAK
 
 No matter how well a student is prepared to face exams, being subjected to these kinds of inspections suddenly affect the functioning of brain. Who gave them the right to interfere in the personal territory of a child? It makes both the students and parents emotionally weak. The educational system itself is to enhance the capability and confidence of students. It is shameful that they have to face such a `test' at this young age.
 
 -Manveen Chadha, Educationist
 
 
