PUNE: A team of city doctors successfully performed a   on a 3-year-old boy weighing 10.2 kg, making the child one of the lowest-weight patients to undergo the procedure.

 The child had started exhibiting symptoms such as weight loss, failure to thrive, loss of appetite and abdominal swelling since last year.
 
 The family paediatrician suggested tests which highlighted a swelling on the liver. The parents then approached a paediatric hepatologist who confirmed congenital liver cirrhosis after conducting multiple tests, including liver biopsy, and advised a liver transplant.
 
 Since the child’s father was a perfect match, a slice of the father’s liver was transplanted into the boy through high-magnification microscopic  .
 
 “Congenital liver cirrhosis is rarely seen in children. This was a challenging case as the the child weighed only 10.2kg and was just three years old. The surgery lasted for 12 hours. The father and son were discharged under healthy conditions after surgery. Both are doing well,” said liver transplant surgeon  , of  , Deccan branch, The critical surgery was conducted about 25 days ago.
 
 Vibhute added, “We took 20% of the liver approximately 185g from the father and transplanted it successfully into the three-year-old. Both their livers will regenerate to normal size within six to twelve weeks.”
 
 Paediatric liver transplant is more complicated than an adult liver transplant. “Paediatric liver transplantation requires a multi-disciplinary approach, cutting-edge infrastructure and experienced staff who are specialised in dealing with paediatric patients. Apart from surgery, the major challenge is intensive care in the post-operative period,” Vibhute said.
 
 Transplant anaesthetists   and Dinesh Babu also faced a huge challenge in maintaining the boy under anaesthesia for 12 hours because of the child’s small veins and wind pipe. 
 
 Due to financial constraints, the father, who works in an electrical company in Mumbai, had to go from pillar to post to raise money for the transplant.
 
 During this period, he came in contact with various NGOs, who in turn put him in touch with Sahyadri Hospitals, where the parents finally found a slimmer of hope. With collective effort from the family, NGOs and Sahyadri Hospital, the child underwent a live liver transplant, which gave him a new lease of life.
 
 DIVYA
 
