New Delhi: All India Institute of Medical Sciences ( ) on Tuesday joined hands with   for developing a housing complex for employees at its West Campus. Resident doctors, however, have been opposing the government’s policy of selling 10% institutional land for commercial use.

 Terming the signing of the MoU a ‘historic moment’, Union health minister J P Nadda said that in the last two years many development proposals of AIIMS have turned into reality.
 
 Reacting to the protests, Union urban development minister M Venkaiah Naidu said, “I am ready for a debate on this issue. All the professors, teachers and staff working here want better accommodation and facilities. At the same time, taking them to Noida and Ghaziabad and asking them commute from there is not going to be of any help because they need to focus and concentrate on their research work.”
 
 “This issue was pending for years because for building houses we need money and the resources of the government are limited. We are giving land to NBCC so that they can redevelop, create modern houses and better facilities and not for any destructive purpose. I don’t understand why some people are opposing this as NBCC, after all, is an arm of the government,” Naidu said.
 
 The MoU mentions that NBCC will build 3,928 apartments in Ansari Nagar, AIIMS West Campus, for the staff over 65 acres at an estimated cost of Rs 4,441 crore. In turn, about 2.9 acres (10% of 29 acres of institutional land) would be given to NBCC for commercial use. The construction agency would be charging 10% of the final cost as project management consultancy fee and 1% for marketing expenses on total fund realisation from the sale/lease of the built-up area.
 
 Meanwhile, members of Resident Doctors’ Association (RDA) had a minor scuffle with the security guards when they forcefully tried to enter the auditorium where the MoU was being signed.
 
 “We just wanted to send three of our representatives to hand over a memorandum before the MoU was signed, but the administration didn’t allow us. We were protesting peacefully, but the security guards tried to remove us from the lobby. This led to a minor scuffle,” said AIIMS RDA president Dr Vijay Gurjar. RDA has called a general body meeting to decide its further course of action.
 
