LUCKNOW: A day after   patriarch   said no to campaigning in favour of the SP-Cong alliance, Lok Dal party chief Sunil Singh announced to field Akhilesh discards on his party’s ticket, hoping that ‘Netaji’ will campaign for his candidates. 

 So far, Lok Dal is fielding three sitting SP MLAs and one former SP MLA. Sitting MLA Rampal Yadav hit the headlines after an illegal structured in his name was bulldozed by the  , following which he was removed from SP. Since his removal, Rampal had begun showing allegiance to the BJP. 
 
 Amidst the family feud in the Yadav clan, he was taken back but did not get the party ticket, after which, Rampal Yadav joined the Sunil Singh-led Lok Dal. Ramveer Singh, sitting MLA from Jasrana, after being denied ticket, joined hands with Lok Dal. Ramveer has been MLA on the seat for the past four terms. He is an old samajwadi and had been close to SP patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav. 
 
 Another sitting MLA from SP to get Lok Dal ticket is Ashish Yadav ‘Ashu’ from Etah, known for closeness to former cabinet minister Shivpal Yadav, who has also lost favour of Akhilesh. Like former cabinent ministers Ambika Chaudhary and Narad Rai, Ashish too quit SP. The former two have joined the Bahujan Samaj Party, while Ashish has joined Lok Dal and is now contesting the election on a ticket from Etah constituency. Former SP MLA from Mahona, Rajendra Yadav joined the Lok Dal and is its candidate from Bakshi ka Talab. 
 
 Lok Dal is also fielding a former Congress leader and ex-MLA Chhotelal Yadav from Barabanki and ex-MLA Kripashanker Singh from Bhagwantnagar in Unnao. Singh had been MLA from BJP as well as BSP. 
 
 Asked whether Mulayam would campaign for him, Singh said: “Why not? He is father figure for the MLAs as well as Lok Dal.” Though he confirmed he has not met Mulayam Singh Yadav since January 22 and that he was under “house arrest”, he has been visible since Monday. “I will go and convince him to campaign for the party candidates,” said Singh. 
 
