CHENNAI:  , sleepless nights and peaking anxiety levels are the  . With the board examination less than a fortnight away, students are increasingly feeling the   to perform well, say   of helplines that get around 30 calls per day.

 About 70% of these calls are from students while the rest are made by their parents or relatives. “Students have two concerns – fear of failure or meeting the cut-offs for admissions into courses after school,” said a counsellor with Sneha helpline.
 
 Even those who have been excellent in academics at schools get anxious. More stress can result in decreased performance levels, the counsellor said.
 
 The 104 helpline, which begun taking calls in mid-January, has received more than 3,000 calls related to exam stress. Inability to properly manage time and low confidence levels are common complaints. Also, several competitive exams lined up next month have put students under immense pressure. Although coaching for National Eligibility Entrance Test is on in full swing, CBSE students who are taking up Joint Engineering Exam have voiced concerns about their biology exam (April 5) being placed very close to the JEE exam (April 2 and April 8-9).
 
 “There is too much pressure on students and the problem is with the system. But students appearing for competitive exams will have to set aside organised study periods to tackle multiple exam formats,” said founder of Sneha, Lakshmi Vijaykumar.
 
 She advised students to have realistic expectations. “You may not be able to remember 100% of what you’ve studied. Getting good sleep is important for memory. The memory trace needs to be reinforced by multiple revisions. If you are struggling for preparation time and need a quick-fix solution, go through the question papers of the last five years,” said Lakshmi.
 
 Helpline counsellors say the number of calls being made by students depressed about examination is higher in rural areas where the support system is rudimentary. Be it accessibility to counsellors at schools or awareness of helplines, students in rural areas must to be with instilled with confidence at schools by teachers, say counsellors.
 
 Counsellors at the 104 helpline advise students to build a support system comprising parents, teachers or peer groups to share concerns. While study groups work well for students, experts advise to stick to individual study when it comes to last-minute preparations. This is because students may tend to compare lessons with one another and varying levels of knowledge may affect confidence.
 
