AHMEDABAD: A   in   (HC) on Friday reminded all those present in the courtroom of the famous scene of Bollywood blockbuster  , in which a   out of its tube, and then asks his friend to shove it back into the tube.

 This scene was devised to show what is impossible. Justice   broke a pencil and then asked a warring couple to glue it together with perfection. He told them that the way they could not glue the pencil, their relationship would never get normal once they were separated. Moreover, it would be a shock for their five-year old daughter, whose custody the couple was fighting for.
 
 The court advised the couple to make amends because their quarrelling and separation would only be disastrous for their daughter. The judge went on to comment that such sad episodes also cause pain to the judge because ultimately he too is a human being. The court advised the couple to give their best shot to improve their relations. “Let it be eleventh attempt,” the judge said when the husband told the court that he failed to reconcile with his wife on 10 occasions.
 
 In this case, the woman, who works with an airline company, approached the court for the custody of her five-year-old daughter. She told the court that her husband was a drunkard and a gambler and did not bother about the family. When she decided to live separately, he forcibly took the daughter with him. The HC had summoned the husband on Friday and taken him to task.
 
 While the judge was trying to persuade the couple to start the life afresh in the interest of their child, those sitting in the courtroom laughed at one of his comments. An irritated judge immediately scolded them: “This looks funny to all because a couple is before the judge, but they do not feel the agony of those involved in this case.”
 
 When the mother requested for meeting with the child, the HC asked the man and his family members not to prevent her from speaking to her daughter. The HC has asked the husband to file a reply to the wife’s claims and allegations, and asked him to bring the child along to the court on January 31. The assistant public prosecutor will speak with the child before further proceedings.
 
