VISAKHAPATNAM: The state budget of 2017 has evoked mixed response among denizens, with the scales tilting more towards the positive. At the same time, certain elements of the so-called ‘smart’ budget allocations have surprised the people.

 Finance minister Yanamala Ramakrishnudu has called the budget ‘smart’ budget and ‘gender’ budget with a focus on welfare. Vizagites cheer it as it has something to offer to every community and sector. At the same time, some feel the port city has been sidelined.
 
 For industries, it’s a balanced budget for industrial development, infrastructure and welfare. G Sambasiva Rao, president-elect,  , averred, “Sanction of Rs 125 crore for small and medium scale industries and Rs 398 crore for skill development scheme is a much-needed initiative to develop skill-based employment.”
 
 V Sandhya Parimala, an MBA graduate and member of  , said, “I was surprised by the allocation for sports and youth welfare (around Rs 1,055 crore), almost four times the allocation of last year. However, not allocating a single paise for Vizag metro rail has come as a disappointment. It has been three years since the metro rail was proposed but no action or allocation of budget has been made.”
 
 CA student Anusha Banerjee is quite upbeat about certain eco-friendly agricultural allocation in the budget. “I liked the concept of giving one lakh solar pump sets for farmers and allocating Rs 25 crore towards organic farming. An increase of over seven per cent in the agro sector, zero interest loans for farmers, loan waiver for 55 lakh farmers, setting up Rythu Bazars and agro poly-technique colleges, all these would give a big boost to the farming sector. The employment relief or unemployment honorarium in the budget is also encouraging to note. Allocating over Rs 20,000 crore towards the education sector is also commendable as well as keeping aside Rs 400 crore for women empowerment. Overall, the budget has been fairly drafted.”
 
 Conservation biologist KLN Murty also felt the allocation of organic farming and Rs 383 crore for the forest department is a welcome move but what is more important is that the allocation should not be just on paper but reach the target people as well. “The distribution mechanism needs to be very stringent and transparent. Just announcement of allocation is not sufficient. The funds should be utilised in a proper manner,” he said.
 
 However, the medical fraternity is unhappy with the   towards the health sector. Dr D Jayadheer, a doctor from   averred, “Around Rs 7,000 crore budget allocation for the health sector is insufficient. There’s hardly any scope for setting up new infrastructure and big ventures with this meagre amount. Vizag has also been left out with nothing much to look forward to for the city.”
 
