Kolkata: One of the worst casualties of the government’s three-language policy will be the Kendriya Vidyalayas run by KV Sangathan in the state. The KVs, which act as a lifeline for parents with transferable jobs, offer two languages up to Class V and after that a third language is introduced between classes VI and VIII. Bengali isn’t included among the three languages.

 “In Bengal, we offer Hindi and English up to Class V and Sanskrit in most KVs is the compulsory third language between classes VI and VIII. Some schools also offer foreign languages like Bengali, Spanish, Russian, German and French as an optional fourth language, which can be taught between classes VI and VIII,” said principal of a KV in Kolkata.
 
 A source in the KV Sangathan said, “Wherever required and as per demand, Bengali is offered as a compulsory third language between classes VI and VIII in a few selected KVs. If the state takes any decision to introduce three compulsory languages between classes I and VIII, among which Bengali would be must, then we shall forward the proposal to competent authorities in Delhi.”
 
 The proposals forwarded by officials to the education minister has already started spooking KV students. “We mostly cater to parents who have transferable jobs. Hence, we will have to know in case the law binds us. We also need to see if the government imposes Bengali as a compulsory language in the three-language policy in phases,” pointed out another KV principal.
 
 The KV Sangathan is waiting to receive a formal letter from the state once the policy is put in place. CBSE has already asked the ministry of human resources and development to allow them to teach three languages in schools.
 
 According to a teacher in a KV, non-Bengali students and those migrating to Bengal KV schools from other states will be the worst hit. “If the government wants all boards to introduce Bengali as a compulsory subject right from Class I up to Class VIII at one go, then these two sections of students would face a massive problem. The worst-affected will be those migrating to Bengal as mid-or senior-school students,” she said.
 
 “They will be expected to match up to an advanced level of Bengali. I wonder how many parents with corporate jobs would shift to the state if their kids face this problem. This is not the best way of making Bengal a destination for industries and corporates, which the state says is its aim,” a KV teacher said.
 
 Also, if the government opts to stick to the three-language formula from Class I to Class X, then students here whose mother tongue is not Bengali will suffer as well. “Most of our KV students do not study Bengali. They will now find themselves learning a new language halfway through school” another teacher said.
 
 
