One of the most expressive forms of Portuguese culture in Goa, the colourful ‘azulejos’ have imparted an artistic distinctiveness to the state’s architecture. One may discover these tiles on an offbeat trail to some orphaned church — chipped, dirty and unloved, yet exuding an inevasible sheen of its complex provenance.
 
  The azulejos at the iconic Institute   in   are definitely sitting much prettier, but the story of this beauteous, though dimly-lit artwork on either side of the vestibule entrance remains untold. These gentle blue and ocean green hued, intricately-drawn tiles have a history, to which even the officials at Institute Menezes Braganza pleaded ignorance.
  
  Azulejos, said to be originally from Seville in Spain, also trace their evolution to ceramic tile decoration that originated in Persia, adopted throughout the Moorish world, before it moved up to southern Spain during the 15th century. But it was in   that the art of tile decoration really evolved by the mid-16th century.
  
  The azulejos inside the Institute have adorned the foyer for over a century. While the monochromatic picture of explorers at sea and supernatural creatures seems like any other colonial artwork, it is the inscription below that erases doubts about the anecdote behind the mosaic.
  
  They depict scenes from the Portuguese epic poem, ‘Os Lusíadas’ (The Luciads), by Luís Vaz de Camoes, a fantastical narrative of Portugal’s historic voyages of discovery. Often regarded as Portugal’s national epic, the work consists of 10 cantos, each ranging from one to eight stanzas. The inscription written at the bottom of the mosaic is a verse from the poem.
  
  “Camoes lived in Goa and also took part in several expeditions to Malabar and the Red Sea. In the epic, he speaks about the golden period of Portuguese history in Goa and the conquest of the East during the 15th and 16th centuries,” said educationist Edward D’Lima, who studied the poem at Bombay University in 1970 along with the Indian epics.
  
  His interactions and experiences in India helped him paint a vivid description of the orient in his poem. This is seen in the picture on the right of the vestibule, for instance, which depicts scenes from Canto VII. It portrays the arrival of   at the court of King Zamorin in  , where the seafarer extended his hand in friendship to the latter. Close attention has been paid to detail as the attire, crockery, oriental architecture in the background and if one looks closely, even the footwear are painted in keeping with that era.
  
  The poet explores the fantastical elements during expeditions by alluding to Greek gods and mythological creatures. The last picture on the mosaic are from Canto IX and portrays the Island of Love. The Greek goddess, Venus, offers the sailors refuge on this Island. Gorgeous nymphs, mermaids and sea creatures are pictured with garlands in hand, waiting to welcome the Portuguese fleet on-shore. Venus, too, welcomes the voyagers and she is seen on a massive clam shell being pushed by a merman and a mermaid.
  
  Dr Floriano de Noronha, the then president of Instituto Vasco da Gama, conceptualized this decor illustrating scenes of the imperialists’ expedition to the East. Jorge Colaco, a Portuguese painter who specialized in designing and painting ‘azulejos’, was assigned the task of putting some of the dramatic episodes of the epic to picture in 1934. His designs mainly comprised ethnographic and landscape scenes celebrating the achievements of Portuguese history.
  
  It will be too condensed to say that Colaco painted the tiles in Portugal and shipped them to Goa along with a set of instructions for the mosaic’s arrangement, considering the kind of intrepid travelling done during those days. The jigsaw was fitted together by artists from Bombay under the guidance of   and the library’s staff. After attaining completion in June 1936, this wondrous work of art was formally inaugurated in March 1937.
  
  The azulejos cover the room from the floor plinths to the top. Some tiles, however, are missing on either of the arcs. Curator of Goa state central library, Carlos Fernandes, said, “History and literature departments in colleges should bring their students to the institute and enlighten them about the azulejo mosaics. Gone are the days when azulejos were used for depiction of history and culture. Today, they merely serve as ornamental beauty to the architecture. What we need is a revival of this art form in Goa and awareness about existing ones.”
  
  One of the many trails left by the Portuguese to Goan tradition, these azulejos and its making process are definitely worth a revival.
