NEW DELHI: Antibiotic resistance in humans is a known danger. Now, new research suggests that animals may also face the danger of a post-antibiotic era, where drugs don’t cure infections.

 Scientists at the   ( ) in Bareilly screened fecal samples of 112 piglets from 10 government farms across several states, and found that eight of them (7%) were carrying superbug New Delhi Metallo-beta-lactamase (NDM), which is not treatable with most  .
 
 The isolates, which were collected from states including Assam, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Karnataka and Kerala, also revealed that 23 of them (21%) were resistant to carbapenem, the last-resort antibiotic.
 
 The study, led by O R Vinodh Kumar, has been peerreviewed and accepted for publication in the Journal of Applied Microbiology.
 
 Common perception is that carbapenem resistance bacteria are found in humans, since high-end antibiotics are not allowed to be used in  . One of the researchers said resistant pathogens could have been transferred to the animals from human contact or through the environment. “Vice-versa is also possible,” he added.
 
 IVRI experts say their research findings point towards potential public health problems as antibiotics are used in large quantities for promoting growth and keeping the livestock disease-free.
 
 According to Centre for Disease Control and Prevention in the US, all animals carry bacteria in their intestines. “When food animals are slaughtered and processed, these bacteria can contaminate the meat or other animal products.
 
 They can also get into the environment through animal stool and may spread to produce that is irrigated with contaminated water,” it says, on how antibiotic use in animals affect people.
 
 It adds that people can be exposed to resistant bacteria from animals while handling or eating raw or under-cooked meat, from contact with animal stool (either directly or when it gets into water for drinking, swimming or growing plants), and from touching or caring for animals.
 
 
