NASHIK: After a complaint was lodged on   Aaple Sarkar — seeking continuous flow of river Godavari — by Devang Jani, the   ( ) said a decision on following the ecological and   of Godavari will be taken by the  

 Jani, an environmentalist who has already filed a petition over pollution of Godavari, said to prevent the river from going dry like what happened last summer or to have minimum flow of water for performing rituals, the quota to have the river flowing needs to be fixed before the onset of summer.
 
 “The National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI) mentioned in its report to the Bombay High Court on Godavari pollution about releasing water as per ecological and environmental flow. It has clearly mentioned how much water should be released from Gangapur dam from January to June. This quota has to be fixed immediately. The government should strictly accept and follow this recommendation,” said Jani.
 
 He said the natural flow of the river has been changed due to concretisation and the river has been made dependent on Gangapur dam for its flow, but the government does not even want to release the water from the dam.
 
 “Thousands of pilgrims come from across the country to perform various rituals and for this flow of water needs to be maintained. The WRD should accept this responsibility. At least the officials need to learn from last summer’s drought when Ramkund went dry and later drinking water had to be released for filling it. To avoid similar situation in the future, the ponds need to be freed of concrete and ground water recharged so that the natural flow of the river is maintained,” said Jani.
 
 He said that a letter was written to the guardian minister of Nashik and water resources minister Girish Mahajan and chief minister Devendra Fadnavis who adopted Nashik, by waterman and Magsaysay Award winner Rajendra Singh.
 
 Singh in his letter mentioned that Mahajan and Fadnavis should endorse all things beneficial for the river, like continuous flow of the river.
 
 “The WRD said water from thermal power station was being released into the river, which is treated water. Why cannot they release water from Gangapur dam?” questioned Jani.
 
 A civic official said that while the WRD would take a call on releasing water from the dam, the matter of removing concrete for exposing natural ponds would have to be studied scientifically. “We have to consider many aspects before removing the concrete,” he said.
 
 No official from the water resources department was available for comments.
 
