PATNA: Despite approval from the state cabinet and notification in the Bihar Gazette of August 17, 2016, the fate of newly announced   is still hanging in balance. The delay in issuance of official notification by the state government could hamper the establishment of the university in 2017-18 academic session.

 According to sources, the state government had announced earlier that the Pataliputra University would come into existence from July 2017 by carving out constituent colleges of Magadh University (MU) located in Patna and Nalanda districts alone. The state government has not yet identified the exact location of the proposed university, sources said, adding the new university needed an office to function at the initial stage.
 
 According to an MU official, there are 44 constituent and 250 affiliated colleges under MU jurisdiction spreading over seven districts in the state. Of them, 21 constituent colleges are located in Patna and Nalanda districts. “Bifurcation would not only deplete the strength of Magadh University, but also further deteriorate the academic ambience of the university,” he said, adding most of the premier colleges of boys and girls are located in Patna.
 
 Expressing concern over the delay in establishment of Pataliputra University, Avinash Kumar, a students’ union representative, said, “There is no work culture in MU. Students have to bear the brunt of red tapism prevailing in the office of the university at Bodh Gaya.”
 
 Teachers and academics of the city-based colleges said the smaller the university, the better the control and functioning. “Magadh University should be bifurcated to ensure good governance and academic ambience on the college campus,” they said, adding the state government should start the process of transfer of assets and liability to the new university by bifurcating MU. 
 
 Former MU VC B N Pandey said state government should give a thought to include a few colleges of Jehanabad district in Pataliputra University as teachers and students would find it convenient to visit Patna instead of Bodh Gaya for any official work. 
 
 Pandey said the old statutes and Acts of the varsities in the state should be amended to keep pace with the development in the field of higher education. “Compared to the quality teaching and researches being carried out in foreign universities, universities in Bihar must adopt advanced teaching methodology to uphold values of higher education in the state,” he said.
 
 B D College Teachers’ Association general secretary   said though the new MU VC   is yet to join the office, it would be a tough challenge for him to ensure smooth bifurcation of the university as the new university is to function from July.
 
