State government is not indulging in extravagance and its first budget will reflect this, UP finance minister  , told Subhash Mishra on Sunday. In the previous BJP government, Agarwal was minister and deputy speaker of Vidhan Sabha. After 15 years, instead of chief minister tabling budget, as in previous governments, it will be finance minister doing the honours this time

 
 
 
 I don't know if there were any welfare schemes in the previous regime but in the Yogi government the theme of the budget is `antyoday“ --rise and welfare of the poor man at the end of the queue. Focus of our first budget is on more than 80% population of the state living in rural areas, including mostly the farmers.
 
 
 
 
 Loan waiver of Rs 36,000 crore was ever a burden, it was our commit never a burden, it was our commitment to small and marginal farmers and we fulfilled it in the first cabinet meeting. In our budget, we are introducing new plans and programmes.
 
 
 
 
 Yes, I reiterate that. If agriculture, as promised by the prime minister and our chief minister is turned into a profitable business, the entire economy of the state and nation would change. The budget will take into account their indebtedness and their welfare. I feel farmers should be motivated to shed the traditional wheatpaddy crops and switch over to horticulture, floriculture, dairies at a larger scale to make more profits.
 
 
 
 
 Public utilities, civic amenities and facilities, health, education, sanitation and housing will get more attention.
 
 
 
 
 The government has taken a firm resolve not to plan schemes and projects for the purpose of vested interests, against public interest. The way chief minister,   has rejected the proposal to include Mercedes cars in his fleet, he has made it clear that luxuries will not be enjoyed at public expense. We will utilise every single penny for the public welfare, not for the better of `thekedaras' (contractors).
 
 
 .
 
 Such schemes and projects are a cause of concern.We will certainly reject all projects backed by vested interests.
 
 Cycle tracks constructed in the previous SP government led by Mulayam Singh Yadav on the   in Lucknow were demolished by Akhilesh Yadav .
 
 
 
 
 The first budget of the Yogi government will translate the `sankalp patra' (BJP's election manifesto) into a reality and fulfil the expectations and aspi ration of the public, top priority being farm ers, rural population, poor and the urban areas.
 
 
