PATNA: Artists from Vrindavan recreated the magic of Ramayana on the first day Navaratra here on Thursday. The annual  , organised by Sri Dussehra Committee Trust, is being held at Naga Baba Thakurbari in Kadamkuan.

 A group of 25 artists from Shri Radhasarvesh Brij Sanskriti Kala Academy, Vrindavan, left the audience mesmerized. What left the audience spellbound was the performance of young artists, most of whom are from school and college students. 
 
 Members of the organising committee said before the commencement of Ram Leela, a prayer session was conducted for the artists followed by the worship of artists by the organisers and audiences. “We consider them (the artists) as incarnation of God and Goddesses and therefore organise a prayer session,” coordinator of the academy Giriraj Prasad Bashishth said.
 
 He added the academy is on a mission to propagate Lord Ram’s eternal life values through the act. “This Ram Leela is not only about celebration, but also about spreading and upholding the age-old values of Indian society and promoting brotherhood. Beginning with Ram birth to his marriage and ‘Lanka Dahan’, the timeless story of good prevailing over evil will be enacted over the next nine days,” Bashishth added.
 
 He said all the artists are from Brahmin community and there is no female artist in the academy. “We are in Patna for the fourth time for Ram Leela,” he added. 
 
 Bashishth said artists who play roles of Ram, Laxman and Sita get Rs 25,000 each and the one who plays the role of Ravana gets Rs 40,000. Other artists get Rs 20,000 each.
 
 Suryakant Mishra (17), who played Sita, said, “I feel privileged to be part of the academy. I memorise all the shlokas of Ramayana. Acting is in my blood. I inherited it from my father and brother and started acting at the age of 10.” Mishra said he has been associated with the academy for last two years. “I want to continue working here as a full time artist once I complete my studies,” Mishra, a Class XI student of G V Public School, Mathura, said.
 
 Ladoo Goyal, a B A (Philosophy) Part I student from Vrindavan, said, “I started acting eight years ago after my parents persuaded me to take part in Ram Leela. Since the beginning, I have been playing the role of Ram as people say that my facial expressions suit the character.”
 
 Kuldeep, a Class XI student from Kaan Makhan Public School (Mathura) and farmer Harilal Dwivedi from Vrindavan are playing the roles of Laxman and Ravana, respectively.
 
 
