There was a time when Delhi boasted just the solitary   (and a rather special one at that). Now, it’s hard to keep up, each ‘show’ as brilliant as the last, in evoking sepia-toned memories of a leisurely era.

 On Sunday, DLF, in association with the Heritage Motoring Club of India, hosted the   Vintage Car Rally, in which 28 beauties held everyone in thrall. Among those caught gazing at the shimmering lines and curves was   Gaurav Gill.
 
 Gill was in the midst of cars that are different to the ones he drives for a living. So what’s a rallyist, someone used to off-roading on undulating dirt trails in a built-by-hand Skoda Fabia Turbo R5, doing at a cavalcade of stunning motors?
 
 
  
 
 “I love cars, obviously, and my life revolves around them. And these are majestic cars that have so much history behind them. And they all have such a strong personality to them,” raved Gill.
 
 American muscle cars from the 1960s and 1970s are his thing. “I love them a lot. Unfortunately, I haven’t had the chance to own any yet, because they’re very hard to find, and very difficult to maintain.”
 
 But Gill’s confident he’ll get his hands on a Mustang soon. “I love the Mustangs, and the old Dodge Chargers. There were two Mustangs today – definitely a treat for my eyes!”
 
 Like many, he’s got plenty of time for the Rolls Royce. “If you pick up any ‘Double R’ – as we call them – from the 1930s or 1940s, it’s really interesting to see how well they were made. Their engines and chassis can still cope up today – they can put a lot of modern cars to shame.”
 
 And junkie that he is, Gill wouldn’t mind bringing a classic pick-up truck roaring back to life. “Put in a modern V8 engine with some 500 horsepower – so that it sounds good!
 
 “I love those flat-bed trucks from the 1950s, the Chevys and the Dodges. They were very nice-looking, very muscular, trucks.” Up next for Gill is the Asia Pacific Championship in New Zealand – and the pursuit of a dream, to take part in the ‘grand prix of the seas’, the world powerboat championship series. “I had a really good run in Mumbai (in the Indian GP), climbed up to fourth after starting last – with six world champions in the field! The organisers want me to pursue it professionally, and I definitely want to, from this year on.”
 
 Till then, there’s a Ducati to tend to, and a   dealership to look after.
 
 
