Kolkata: Before leaving for Delhi to attend the swearing-in ceremony of the President, chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday attended the Uttam Kumar Smarane programme organized to observe the icon’s death anniversary. Speaking at the event, Banerjee said the Rs 135-crore state-of-the-art West Bengal Tele Academy project was expected to be complete in 10 months. She also talked about a digital archive at the Cinema Centenary Building. 

 “Plans are also afoot to construct a new building with an open-air amphitheatre at the Rajya Sangeet Academy. The entire project is worth Rs 20-crore and should be complete in two years. The open-air amphitheatre will be ready by this December,” said Vivek Kumar, principal secretary of the department of information and cultural affairs.
 
 At the programme, Banerjee conferred the Mahanayak Samman 2017   on nine artists for their contribution to cinema . “A civilization remains vibrant as long as artistes are creatively alive. Always remember ‘shilpo’ doesn’t happen without ‘shilpi’,” she said. Just like the Kanyasree project has helped spread Bengal’s name in the whole world, Banerjee said she hoped that Tollywood will also the do the same someday. “Tollywood should conquer Bollywood and Hollywood.”
 
 Veteran actress Shankuntala Baruah received the Lifetime Achievement award while Prosenjit Chatterjee and Nusrat Jahan took home the Best Actor and Best Actress awards respectively. “Receiving an award from Didi and our state government is really inspiring. Last year, I had ‘Shankhachil’, ‘Praktan’, ‘Khwoto’ and ‘Zulfiqar’. They were all very different films,” Prosenjit said.
 
 For 2017, the Best Director, Best Music Director, Best Cinematographer and Best Scriptwriter awards went to Arindam Sil, Pt Bickram Ghosh, Soumik Halder and Padmanabha Dasgupta respectively. “Getting the highest state award and sweeping it with all our films this year along with Bickram, Soumik and Padmanabha just gives me the confidence that we are on the right track,” Sil said.
 
 Producer Suparna Kanti Karati picked up the Best Film award for ‘Bisorjon’. Director Shiboprosad Mukhopadhyay was happy that his Windows Productions received the Best Producer award for ‘Praktan’. “Didi told me that she was happy with the kind of work we are doing,” Mukhopadhyay said.
 
 The award ceremony was followed by a musical performance, the high point of which was the rendition of songs from Uttam Kumar’s films by Vivek Kumar and Indranil Sen, minister of state for information and cultural affairs. 
 
 
