 (SONBHADRA): Smoke billows out as Ramkali Devi lights her ‘chulha’ inside her hut at Manbasa village of Dudddhi tehsil in the district. It’s already 6 pm and she is getting late for preparing dinner for her family of six. This routine has not changed in the past three decades for the 47-year-old mother of four. Nor have the tools to get her mud oven functional. She doesn’t know any other way to cook. Something called LPG and   are alien to her. 

 “No Gond family of this village have any idea about gas stoves,” she says, narrating how she and other women of the village go to the nearby jungle everyday, so that the kitchen fire could be kept burning. The fruits of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s ambitious Ujjwala scheme, launched in east UP to provide LPG connection to enable poor women to use clean energy, has not reached this district situated in UP’s far east.
 
 Gonds, the tribe Ramkali belongs to, dominate this tehsil of Sonbhadra district. Nearly 28% tribal population -- also comprising Kharwar, Parahiya, Baiga, Agariya, Patari and Chero tribes apart from Gonds -- has earned Duddhi the status of UP’s first assembly constituency reserved for scheduled tribes. The second one is adjacent Obra of the same tehsil. Located on Jharkhand border, the Duddhi area of Sonbhadra was once in the grip of Naxal menace. Now, though the violence perpetrated by the Red army has ebbed, having means of proper earning locally is still a distant dream for the tribal dominated population of this area. It has uninterrupted 4 G connectivity, but very few smartphones.
 
 Savitri Gond, who is doing her BEd, says that when arranging two square meals is a difficult task for most tribal families, how can can they think of buying smartphones. “Tribals are either small farmers or their earning depends on forest products like chiraunji, tendu and mahua. Majority of them work as field labourers. As they fail to get good price of their products in local markets, their earning remains insufficient to meet basic requirements of their families,” says 20-year-old Jageshwar Gond. 
 
 In 2015, the region also faced a severe water crisis due to bad monsoon. However, last year, adequate rain not only filled reservoirs, rivers and water bodies but also improved the ground-water level. And although government’s health care network is being strengthened, the delivery is big challenge due to the vast and difficult terrain of the region.
 
 “Area of a single village in this part of district is very large and some villages are spread in remote areas over an area of 20 km. To cover such as a vast region, the network of Anganbadi, Asha and ANM was strengthened and health camps by government doctors in remote area thrice a week was made mandatory,” says DM Chandra Bhushan Singh. Despite these efforts, getting basic health care facilities nearby is a far cry for most villages.
 
 Located in Kaimur valley 72 km from district headquarters and surrounded by three rivers -- Kanhar, Lauwa and Thema -- Duddhi is a full of natural beauty. Of about 6 lakh population in Duddhi tehsil, which comprises Duddhi and Obra, 28.90 are tribals while 18.80% are scheduled caste. It has NTPC’s Rihand unit of 3000 MW, but locals say the district is getting more than 12 hours power supply in villages and 14 hours in towns only after previous Diwali. Majority of youths are forced to go to Allahabad and Varanasi for higher education.
 
 “The label of a tribal seat will hardly do anything for the uplift of the area. Government must take more affirmative action to improve healthcare and and education facilities,” says 
 
 
