BENGALURU: The latest `expose' of political donations involving high-profile politicians, ministers and bureaucrats should cause no surprise.

 Peddling of influence in the corridors of power by moneybags, brokering of deals and blurring of lines between party leaders and their bosses in New Delhi has been a way of life in Karnataka -be it the Congress, BJP or any other regional party .
 
 “It is difficult for anyone to vouch for the authenticity of the diary that is making headlines but it does provide a scary insight into how much cash exchanges hands just to keep the bosses in good books.The ministers in power, in nexus with these moneybags, are obligated to raise funds to `donate' to the party to please the bosses. It is a complex and dirty game dominated by political donations, vested interests, personal ambition, class and power,'' said a senior Congress politician.
 
 When Union finance min ister   announced in his budget speech that parties will now not be allowed to accept donations of more than Rs 2,000 in cash from an individual donor, there was hope. As per section 29C of the Representation of the People (RP) Act, 1951, political parties were allowed to accept donations of up to Rs 20,000 from anonymous individuals. Now this limit has been reduced to Rs 2,000.
 
 But experts believe it will do little to usher in transparency in political funding. “As long as black money is there, election funding is an important outlet. The restriction on individual cash contributions can be circumvented by `benami' contributions in multiple names. Any number of laws is not enough to check the malaise as long as the source of funding is available,''  , a political analyst said.
 
 “Changing it partially hardly affects the larger game of black money, unless it is reinforced with regulations like open cheque system, scrapping 80G provision for income-tax exemption for those who don't make open payments, follow-up of benefits extended to those who paid for a party while in government, are important steps to be transparent. If anybody is serious about stopping donations, an independent regulatory body should be established to check it,'' said  , another political analyst.
 
 RULING LOBBIES
 
 Between the 1970s and 1990s, Karnataka politics was monopolized by the liquor and education lobbies.The liquor lobby's hold ended in 2003 after the   was set up to plug the leaks in excise revenue from liquor.Subsequently, the education lobby (capitation fee) ruled the roost with the advent of new private medical and engineering colleges, most of them owned by politicians. Of late, real estate and mining lords exercise their influence over political establishments.
 
