NEW DELHI: The   to   on National   8 from the direction of Dhaula Kuan is as exasperating for the commuter as Outer Ring Road. However, the daily vehicular pile-up could be history if the plans to remove the three major   bottlenecks are quickly implemented. Sources said that the defence ministry — much of the area in the problematic, 2.5-km stretch is owned by the army — has consented to hand over six hectares of land to the National Highway Authority of India. This will enable the construction of two flyovers and two underpasses besides a pedestrian crossing to smoothen flow of traffic.

 “Former defence minister Manohar Parrikar had cleared the proposal before leaving Delhi, and we expect to get the formal letter for the land transfer next week,” an   official said. Once that happens, tenders will be invited for the projects. The official added that the expenditure estimated for building the relatively small flyovers and underpasses is Rs 150 crore.
 
 Work could begin in August and will take up to two years to complete. As per the detailed project report prepared by NHAI, the stretch from Cariappa Marg to Dhaula Kuan will be made signal. To facilitate this, a four-lane, one-way, 800-metre flyover will be built over the existing crossing. Officials explained that traffic from Gurgaon to Dhaula Kuan will use this flyover. There will also be a three-lane slip road beneath the flyover for vehicles going to Uttam Nagar.
 
 Another flyover will be built near the Cantonment area and will merge with the Dhaula Kuan-bound, four-lane flyover to prevent a jam at the crossing. At present, traffic movement slows down because of insufficient space at the left turn, resulting in lengthy snarls.
 
 NHAI officials said a new vehicular underpass will connect the Cantonment area with the Army hospital. “This means we can remove the traffic light that is currently located outside Subroto Park,” one of them said. There will be another pedestrian underpass between Cariappa Marg crossing and Army hospital.
 
 To do away with the traffic light at the Parade Road crossing, NHAI will build a 700-metre, one-way underpass for vehicles going towards the Army area from Dhaula Kuan. This will ensure uninterrupted vehicle flow from the direction of Gurgaon.
 
 “Moreover, the land available to us now from the defence ministry will free up space for at least two more lanes and will ease traffic flow from Dhaula Kuan towards Gurgaon,” said the NHAI official.
 
 The plan to loosen this traffic knot was revisited after highways minister Nitin Gadkari was caught in a massive traffic jam in early 2015.
 
