PATNA: Two days after   exposed how   chief   Prasad’s eldest daughter, Rajya Sabha member  , bought a farmhouse at Bijwasan in Delhi through dubious share transactions in front companies, Bihar’s former deputy chief minister   demanded an   (ED) probe into the dealings.

 Misha’s husband   had sought to justify the dealings on Friday, saying that the property was purchased at the circle rate of the area. 
 
 But senior   member Modi alleged the money to purchase the farmhouse was raised through fraudulent trading of shares in a firm named Mishail Packers and Printers Private Ltd, of which Misha and Shailesh are listed as directors in the records of the Registrar of Companies.
 
  
  
 
 Modi, who furnished documents supporting his claims, said Misha sold shares in Mishail Packers at Rs 100 (each) in 2008 to four “shell firms” three years after her firm was closed, and purchased them back 11 months later at Rs 10 each. The “profit” thus generated was used to purchase the farmhouse, he added.
 
 “Why will any firm purchase shares of a closed firm and then sell them again at nominal prices? The whole idea was to turn the black money generated through the fodder scam by Lalu into white,” Modi said at a presser held at the Bihar BJP headquarters in Patna on Saturday.
 
 RJD national spokesperson Manoj Jha said the documents furnished by Modi were already available in public domain. “Modi has tried to fabricate financial forgery by adding his own assumptions to transactions done more than 10 years ago. 
 
 Similar transactions done by BJP’s top leadership are sacred, but false allegations are being made against us only to gain political mileage,” Jha said.
 
 Times Now had revealed on Thursday a complex web of shady transactions by Lalu’s family members to purchase expensive property at throwaway rates by buying and selling shares in dubious front companies. 
 
 Documents available with Times Now show that Misha and Shailesh acquired the farmhouse at Bijwasan, near the IGI airport, where the rich and influential own properties, for Rs 1.41 crore. 
 
 The report stated that V K Jain and S K Jain, the entry operators arrested in March as part of the crackdown on black money, had also purchased Mishail Packers’ shares. 
 
 Modi sought a probe into the involvement of their firm in the purchase of Mishail Packers’ shares.
 
