BENGALURU: It may be double-whammy for tipplers in Karnataka this summer. Liquor prices are likely to shoot up from next month. The reasons: Drought and demonetization.

 The Karnataka Brewers and  , the nodal agency for liquor manufacturers’ in the state, has given a representation to chief minister Siddaramaiah seeking a hike in liquor prices as the input costs, especially that of extra neutral alcohol(ENA), have gone up in the past one year. ENA is highly concentrated ethanol (drinking alcohol) that is sourced from molasses, a byproduct of sugarcane.
 
 The association has sought an increase of Rs 35 per case in all slabs of liquor. In Karnataka, a case contains around nine litres of liquor and there are 17 slabs slotted on the basis of the maximum retail price. With severe drought having affected sugarcane cultivation in the state, the availability of molasses has reduced significantly. 
 
 “It’s been a tough year for liquor manufacturers in the state. There’s a steep fall in sugarcane production and hence, the availability of molasses has been considerably reduced. The landing cost of ENA has gone up by Rs 7.02 per litre in the past one year,” association president   said.
 
 While the price of ENA was Rs 45.25 per litre in January 2016, it touched Rs 52.27 in January 2017; the landing cost per case has increased by Rs 28,78.
 
 Association secretary general Shivalingaiah said the availability of molasses has come down by 40 per cent compared to the previous year. 
 
 “A fallout of this has been is the rise in ENA price. Many distillers have not been able to reach the break-even point because of the sudden increase of ENA price. Compounding the woes of the distillers is the rise in labour wages, transport fees and other overhead costs.” 
 
 While the distillers cite drought for seeking a price hike, the government feels that a hike could help it overcome revenue shortfall caused following Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s demonetization exercise. 
 
 During a financial review held by chief minister Siddaramaiah in December 2016, the government expected a revenue shortfall of Rs 3,000 crore because of demonetizaton. Though the excise department had managed to meet the revenue targets that had been set for it, a section of the bureaucracy feels that the best option for shoring up revenues is by increasing liquor prices. But the ball is in the CM’s court and a clear picture would emerge when he presents the budget next month.
 
 ‘Don’t close distilleries for 15 days during polls’
 
 The Karnataka Brewers and Distillers Association has urged the government to amend the Panchayat Raj Rule-308AC(c) that mandates closure of all distilleries and breweries located in the panchayat limits where the polls are being held, for 15 days. 
 
 Briefing the chief minister on the issue during the pre-budget discussions on Friday, the members said the closure is an extreme measure that causes huge revenue loss. “When dry days for other polls, including parliamentary and assembly elections, are just two days, why the same is 15 days for panchayat polls?” they asked.
 
 According to the association, the closure of distilleries and breweries would affect production and prompt customers to switch over to different brands.
 
