Bhopal: Chief minister   visited Hamidia hospital on Sunday to enquire about condition of Vidhisha   victims. Of the 17 people admitted to the tertiary care hospital, the condition of eight patients is stated to be critical.

 The incident took place some 50 km from Bhopal in Vidisha town on Saturday night. The victims were attending a marriage function in a house when a cooking gas cylinder burst, injuring over 25 people. They were rushed to Hamidia hospital late on Saturday night.
 
 Chouhan met patients and relatives of the affected and assured all the possible care. He directed Hamidia hospital administration to provide best possible care to the victims, including the possibility to refer victims to higher medical facility outside Bhopal. Sources said once stable, some victims could be referred to a hospital with better facilities in Mumbai. Possibility of the use of air ambulance was not ruled out by officials.
 
 Chouhan asked officials to make arrangements for the wedding of the daughter of the blast-affected family. An ex–gratia amount of Rs 50,000 for critically injured and Rs 25,000 for other patients was announced.
 
 The injured include 11 adults and six children. Chouhan first visited Hamidia hospital burns unit, where 11 patients are undergoing treatment. “Four patients are critical with more than 50% burns. We have kept them in isolation,” said Dr Arun Bhatnagar, HoD burns and plastic surgery department, Hamidia hospital.
 
 The department boasts of steri-air machines that reduces risk of external infections after burns. It creates a dry fog with ultra-light micro-particles cleaning the air and reduces risk of surface infection. Infection owing to burns is a major source of complication, he said.
 
 Paediatric patients are being treated at the burns ward of the Kamla Nehru Hospital. Condition of four children is critical, said hospital superintendent.
 
 ***
 
 Praise for hosp admn, after CMs first visit to Hamidia hospital since Dec
 
 Gandhi Medical College (GMC) and its associated Hamidia hospital administration was put to test yet again after an unscheduled visit of chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan. The   is learned to have expressed his satisfaction over the progress at the hospital.
 
 Last December, the chief minister during an unannounced visit, had pulled up the hospital administration citing mismanagement and poor medical care at the hospital. After some time, Hamidia hospital superintendent and the GMC dean were replaced. The good thing about Chouhan’s visit was a master plan was put in place for the creation of new hospital block and, more recently, PG and MBBS seats were increased in the government medical college. 
 
 Dr MC Songra, HoD, surgery department, was appointed as new dean and department of orthopaedics professor, Dr Deepak Maravi took over as the superintendent of Hamidia hospital. Six months after that, words of praise for the hospital administration from the CM are sure to come as a boost to the morale of doctors.
 
 
