RANCHI: Governor   and chief minister Raghubar Das highlighted the state government’s development programmes as they joined the people to celebrate   on Thursday. Colourful programmes were organized across the state on the occasion. 

 Murmu attended the Republic Day celebration at Morhabadi Ground where participants showcased the state’s rich culture and heritage and the people’s desire to excel in all fields. More than 20 tableaux depicting various themes were on display. One such tableau presented by the state public relations and information department was dedicated to Anjan Dham, which many believe was the the birthplace of Hanuman. Police and armed forces personnel took part in the parade. 
 
 In her address, the Governor focussed on the significance of the education, uplift and employment of the youth. She also spoke at length on issues such as emancipation of villages, investment and the rights of the working class. 
 
 At another ceremony on Mahatma Gandhi Road, state urban development minister CP Singh inaugurated a colour coded parking lot. Parking rates will be decided according to the colour of the segment where a car is kept. 
 
 In Dumka, Das hoisted the national flag at the police lines. In his speech, he said the amended Chota Nagpur Tenancy Act and the Santhal Pargana Tenancy Act would ultimately help the tribals. Referring to the budgetary provisions introduced in this year’s budget, he said 2% of the vacant posts in all categories would be reserved for primitive tribes.
 
 In Ranchi, railway employees organize a colourful programme where divisional regional manager (railways) S K Agarwal who hoisted the Tricolour. School students and railway employees performed cultural programmes at the ceremony.At a programme organized by CCL at Mahatama Gandhi Kridangan, CCL and CISF personnel and students conducted a march past accompanied by an army band. Security was tight in all vulnerable areas. More than 350 personnel were deployed at Mohrabadi. Police in Dumka had made arrangements so that Das did not face any protest.
 
