BENGALURU:   finalists   will look to tame North Korea's champion football club 4.25 SC in front of their fans at the 1.14-lakh capacity May Day stadium in Pyongyang on Wednesday.

 It would be a historic day for Indian football as the Blues will be the first Indian football club to play in the land of Kim Jong-Un. The visitors are sitting pretty with a 3-0 lead from the first leg but it would be an altogether different ball game in the second leg of the inter-zonal semifinal of AFC Cup. 4.25 SC or April 25 SC are one of the most successful teams in North Korea, having won the DPR Korea League Cup 10 times. The club belongs to the Korean People's Army and the name comes from the Military Foundation Day.
 
 BFC, who touched down in Pyongyang on Monday, will face quite a challenge dealing with the hermit kingdom's strict rules and limited connectivity with the outside world. “With no international roaming or mobiles phones allowed, the only way we can stay connected with the squad is the landline number of the hotel they are staying at,“ a Bengaluru FC official said. “In fact, we were following the flight details online to ascertain when they landed in Pyongyang. It's only later when they called that we knew the team had reached the hotel.”
 
 It remains to be seen if there would be any live streaming of the match (which starts at 2 pm IST) on the Internet on Wednesday, given the restrictions on social networking sites in North Korea. “Internet access doesn't come cheap. The club will have to pay approximately $700 (Rs 45,000) for a day's usage is what we've been told,” the official said.
 
 It was a novel experience for Bengaluru skipper   as his side walloped their opponents in pouring rain at the Sree Kanteerava stadium two weeks ago. “There were a few mild tackles and I always walked up to them and said 'sorry'. But there was no reaction from the players,” Chhetri told TOI before leaving for Pyongyang.
 
 Edwin Rahul, the local manager of the North Koreans during their first leg visit to Bengaluru, recalled that the players never stepped out of the team hotel. “They were all very quiet. They came out only for training or meals. Otherwise, they were all confined to their rooms,” he said.
 
 Edwin said even after the visitors were outclassed by the Blues, they never vented their frustration. “Again, they showed no anger or disappointment. They were very quiet,” he recalled.
 
 Former sports editor of the TOI, K Datta, said he couldn't recall any sporting interaction between the two countries. “I remember doing a story for Femina when a North Korean table tennis champion came to Delhi in the 1970s. But I don't remember any football team travelling to DPR Korea,” he said.
 
 The Indian women's football team was in Pyongyang in April to compete in the AFC Asian Cup qualifiers. They lost 0-8 to North Korea in a Group B match.
 
