'Regiment' was the title of the couture collection shown last week by designer duo Shantanu & Nikhil in Delhi. Inspired by ideas of discipline and pride in the Nehruvian era and the regalia of armed forces, it showcased trench coats, bandhgalas and drapes for men and women with convertible Nehru collars, rustic medallions, vertical pockets, epaulettes and coin buttons. A bold, clutter-breaking show, 'Regiment' symbolises a significant inflexion point for Indian couture which was once synonymous with bridal wear and its lehenga-choli-chuni and sherwani-safa-dhoti matrix.

 Today, it's not just about prohibitively priced, spectacular, bespoke garments that make brides look like faux maharanis. It is instead an exciting mix of luxury prêt, cocktail and occasion wear that draws upon multiple Indian and Western silhouettes made from global-local materials. The work of Gaurav Gupta, one of the frontrunners of the fusion wave with his lehenga gowns, has mutated to sculptural couture with imaginative embroidery on diaphanous fabrics that makes the human body look like a piece of fine art.
 
 Across brands, gowns now dominate Indian couture. At the 2017 edition of the India Couture Week that starts in the capital tomorrow, every collection — from the opening show by Rohit Bal called Shane-e-Khas that interprets museum pieces from Indian dress history to the finale by   — will include dresses and gowns fit for any global outing. "We've sold more gowns since 2015 than we ever thought," says Shantanu Mehra. In fact, Shantanu-Nikhil already feel the need for an anti-trend for gowns.
 
 It is not just about the gown divesting the lehenga-choli of its power. Bridal wear itself is not as besotted with bling that typified it. "Sales in the bridal couture indicate an appetite for "duller" bling which was absolutely zero two years ago," says Vivek Ramabhadran, South Asia MD of Swarovski Professional. "There is a clear shift towards refined opulence with matte finishes, vintage coatings, opal tones and the use of Swarovski crystals for accents instead of volume," he adds.
 
 The trickle down is visible across Indian malls where windows are stacked with an assortment of gowns in plagiarised designs, to local bazaars where gowned mannequins wear the mood of the moment.
 
 "Fashion cannot go on repeating the old purist vocabulary, it has to change and move," says   adding that this movement is in tune with a more global sensibility in films and popular culture. He also points out that this is not just an Indian phenomenon, it is equally true in the Middle-East. "Arab women wear Indian couture pieces or Western gowns under their hijabs," he says. In fact, Manish Malhotra recently made a gown for the Princess of Saudi Arabia and a long trailing couture dress for a client from Kuwait.
 
 The winds of influence began to blow from the red-carpet outings of Indian celebs who favour international labels at global events. Indian fashion magazines do the same, repeatedly featuring   stars in global luxury labels on their covers. The fuss this year at the Cannes film festival was over the "big dress" (read a dramatically huge, trailing gown by Valentino, Armani, Dior or Elie Saab). Alia Bhatt just carried the story forward at the IIFA awards in New York last week. She Instagrammed her   gown with the caption: "The big night deserves the big dress".
 
 The biggest recent influencer, however, is  , our most successful acting export to the West whose style has been applauded at the Emmys, Oscars and the Met Gala. She may be called the Desi Girl back home but not once has she been sighted in a sari or a lehenga at an international event. So when she wears an Armani or a Ralph Lauren, the message is not lost on Indian designers.
 
 Some say the sari and the salwar kameez are casualties of this couture politics between the lehenga and the gown. Not quite. It is an unexpected win for the sari which has become the everyday garment of choice for many women. It can be worn differently with white sneakers, gold heels, cropped tops, kedia blouses, flared jeans, sling bags, bad hair days and a knowing grin. 
 
