CHANDIGARH: The   on Wednesday stayed the process to hold   on a plea that challenged the redrawing of ward boundaries, which was undertaken as part of the   exercise. 

 A division bench of justices Mahesh Grover and Shekher Dhawan passed these orders while hearing a plea filed by Bhoop Singh, a resident of Tigra village, and others. The detailed order is expected to be released on Thursday. The next hearing is scheduled for February 28.
 
 The petitioners have urged the high court to set aside two notifications — of September 2, 2016 and January 13 this year —through which the state government had initiated and carried out the process to demarcate ward boundaries afresh for the MCG election, which is nearly a year overdue.
 
 
  
 
 The high court was also informed that an earlier notification, issued on February 4, 2016, had reduced the number of wards from 35 to 32. This number was fixed on account of Census figures showing a total population of 9,09,392 according to the 2011 report as opposed to a total population of 11,53,734 in the  .
 
 The January 13 notification subsequently proposed a fresh demarcation of all 35 wards. Terming the new notification arbitrary, petitioners have argued that the government has completely ignored all norms and principles in redrawing seats or wards.
 
 They also contended the ad hoc committee formed to carry out the delimitation exercise was constituted the same day the impugned notification had been issued, clearly showing that formation of the panel was just an eyewash and a decision on the redrawn wards had already been taken.
 
 All members of the ad hoc committee were members of the ruling party, including the current MLA and three others former councillors, the petitioners told the court.
 
 They also argued that the current remapping had led to haphazard geographical areas of wards, defeating the whole purpose of the exercise to offer make things for convenient for residents and ensure access to the local councillor. Besides Singh, the three other petitioners are the DLF Qutab Enclave RWA, Zile Singh Nambardar of Saraswati Vihar and Jagmohan Yadav of Sikanderpur village. 
 
 
