PUNE: A 16-year-old motorcycle rider viciously assaulted a  , whose only mistake was to ask the boy to ride on the right side of the rode.

 The incident took place on Friday afternoon on Jan   in Camp. Venkati Dhangare, an employee of Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML), has lodged a complaint with the Cantonment police station.
 
 According to the police, the boy , apart from being underage, was also riding without a helmet.
 
 Senior inspector   of Cantonment police told TOI that they took the boy to the police station after the incident, but as the juvenile court was unavailable, his parents were given custody. The boy's mother, who came to the police station, apologized for her son's actions. “She admitted it was her son's fault, but the (PMPML) officials who accompanied me told her the matter would not be closed with just an apology,“ said 36year-old Dhangare.
 
 The boy was headed towards   from MG Road, near Qureshi Masjid. The bus was going to Hadapsar from Warje. “The road is really narrow there, and the boy started riding on the wrong side. 
 
 He was by himself,“ Kuvar said. The teenager came to a stop just in front of the bus, which was coming from the Bhavani Peth side. Because of this, the driver who had to turn right towards MG Road was unable to manoeuvre the bus around the bike.
 
 “The driver raised his voice, requesting the boy to remove his motorcycle from the way . The boy got enraged.He parked his motorcycle and hopped inside the bus,“ Kuvar said. The boy hurled abuses at the driver, then kicked and punched him.
 
 “He kicked and punched me so badly , it is difficult for me to move my left arm and leg,“ Dhangare said, while recounting the incident.
 
 Passengers and passersby intervened and overpowered the boy . Afer he was forced off the bus, the boy got on his bike and left the area. Despite his injured condition, Dhangare was alert enough to note down the mo torcycle's registration number.
 
 “As he made his escape, I noted down his bike's registration number,“ added Dhangare, who has worked for the transport utility for nine years.
 
 Using the registration number, the police tracked down the boy to a locality near the spot of the altercation.
 
 The entire incident took place in 10 minutes during which time, traffic was disrupted because of the stationary bus. Braving the pain caused by his injuries, Dhangare drove the bus to Mahatma Gandhi bus stand in  , parked it there and went to the police chowkey to lodge a complaint. 
 
 However, the complaint was not registered due to technical difficulties. He was directed to Cantonment police station where his complaint was taken.
 
 According to Kuvar, the boy had recently cleared SSC with good marks, and had secured admission to std XI at a college in Camp. “His father is an autorickshaw driver, while mother is a housewife. His family told us he was unable to keep his temper in check at the time of the incident,“ Kuvar said.
 
