NAGPUR: Two days after TOI reported a missing subject, and some wrong subjects, in the Master of Science (MSc) Mathematics marklists, which were also issued in back date, the   section has printed new mark sheets with necessary corrections in record time.

 On Tuesday, TOI visited the general exam section and found fresh marklists with ‘Operational Research’ paper and May 5 printed on them. NU officials also assured that students would be given additional time to apply for revaluation in case they have failed in any paper.
 
 However, the third semester (CBCS) students were unaware of the development. When contacted, some of them said their fourth semester exams are underway and they couldn’t check with the college. They expressed relief when told that NU would be accepting their revaluation forms even after the deadline. 
 
 On May 8, TOI was the only paper to report that students had found practical subjects instead of the compulsory fifth paper ‘Operational Research’ printed on the marklist issued to them on May 5. The marklist also had April 28 as date of issue, which meant the time to apply for revaluation had almost ended.
 
 The students had complained that the exam section was reluctant to bail them out.
 
 On Tuesday, director,   and Evaluations, Neeraj Khaty tried to downplay the entire affair by pleading ignorance about the fiasco. He said there are over 1,400 exams and he couldn’t check individual courses for blunders. “No one came to me to report such a problem. It has become a fashion for students to go to the media and talk about their problems,” he added.
 
 Despite being ‘unaware’ about the goof up, Khaty explained why the mess happened. “There are three patterns for MSc courses — yearly pattern, credit based system ( ) and choice based credit system (CBCS). In CBCS too, there are old and new courses. This is creating confusion in the software,” he said.
 
 Khaty assured that genuine cases will get additional time to apply for revaluation. “I will personally intervene if students approach me. I will get their claim verified and if found correct, I will ask officials to accept revaluation forms even after the deadline.”
 
 Meanwhile, MSc chemistry third semester (CBS) and   first semester (CBCS), who faced problems of backdated result, are yet to get any such respite.
 
