Puducherry: Slamming the Union government for shifting the planning strategies without fundamental transformation in policies and objectives, economist and former Lok Sabha member   has sought the establishment of an institution like Niti Ayog in all states and Union territories to consolidate the district plans, prepare state plans and formulate problem-solving pragmatic policies. 

 The district plans must emerge from village plans prepared by the common sense of commoners, Ramadass said in a statement. The Union government decided to end the Planning commission’s five-year plans and to shift to Niti Ayog’s three-year, seven-year and 15-year vision plans. 
 
 Ramadass said the decision needs a careful and critical reappraisal. “What is required to create a new India with prosperous Indians is to abandon the topsy-turvy top-to-bottom plan approach and replace it by a need-based bottom-to-top approach and a transition from macro to micro planning. India’s plan, – be it three-year plan or seven-year plan or 15-year plan – should be the horizontal summation of respective plans of all states and Union territories,” he said.
 
 Ramadass regretted that the vital decision influencing the lives and destinies of millions of less fortunate citizens of India has been taken in a ‘hurried and haphazard’ fashion on the basis of the ‘advice tendered by bureaucrats and armchair economists, who have less knowledge about the mechanics and artefacts of real India’.
 
 He said the approval of the Centre-dictated plan design by the chief ministers within less than 24 hours exhibits how casually, callously and carelessly the interest of the nation has been mortgaged. He said the vision plan of India must reflect the vision of 129 crore people and not 25 billionaires.
 
 “It should be a shared vision of the masses and not mandarins. Such an approach can create economically strong states, which will eventually build a strong India. In fact, a real cooperative federalism will dawn in India only in such scenario. All other sloganeering, empty rhetoric and stage shows would only be misleading the innocent masses, who would be living and dying in distress,” he said.
 
 Former director of Pondicherry University regretted that the erstwhile control of the Union government continues as it owns the majority share of resources of the country but performing less functions while the chief ministers with onerous responsibilities waiting at the doors of the Prime Minister with begging bowls. “This is neither federalism nor cooperative federalism,” he said. Ramadass was of the strong opinion that the Union government must act as a facilitator by creating the necessary institutional framework at the village, district, state and central levels. 
 
 
