Nagpur:   of Nagpur, also called as Main Rotary, was founded 74 years ago. Over the years, it has also sponsored several sister clubs, owing to increase in members. In June, out of around 350 members, nearly 75 active members broke away from the main club over difference of opinion.

 The breakaway group, mostly comprising senior members who have had long association with Rotary, formed Rotary Club of Nagpur Vision (RCNV) whose installation ceremony was held on Sunday. 
 
 Rina Sinha, president of Rotary Club of Nagpur, told TOI, “Members left for their own reasons. Some of them could not find time, whereas some have joined the club again after a hiatus. This goes on in every organization.” 
 
 Sinha added that more number of groups ultimately help the society more. Founder member of RCNV Dinesh Naidu said that the main group did not sponsor their club. “Instead, they tried to create hurdles in formation of RCNV,” he said.
 
 “There was difference of opinion and certain members had their own aspirations. The group also increased in number, and the bonhomie had reduced. There is no competition with the main club, but 75 senior members forming a new club is a damage to both the parties,” said Naidu.
 
 The all-women group Rotary Club of Nagpur North Hills was also suspended this June.
 
 “We were senior members who also held senior posts in our jobs. It was not possible for us to give full time and justice to the activities. We used to feel that the younger members of the group were neither committed nor worked with sincerity and passion,” said a member who did not wish to be named. 
 
 “The members still organize activities in individual capacities and the bonding continues,” she added.
 
 District general governor of Rotary Club Dr Rajan KS refused to comment, saying it was the internal matter of the club.
 
 Manju Shahani to lead new team
 
 Manju Shahani, CEO, East India Paper Company, took over the reins of Rotary Club of Nagpur Vision as the new president in a glittering event attended by 150 Rotary members and spouses. The other members are: President elect Rajiv Behal, vice-president Sohrab Kanga, secretary Jatin Sampat, joint secretary Vikram Naidu, treasurer Sarang Upganlawar, Sgt. At Arms Rtn Anmol Badjatia as besides directors Bhupesh Shinde, Dr Shantala Bhole, Nilanjan Bhowmick, Sadhana Thote, Aeyjaz Akolawala, Manish Agrawal, Dr Shivani Bidaye and IPP Sandip Surana for the Rotary Year 2017-18.
 
 PDG Dr Deepak Purohit was the chief guest of the event accompanied by district governor elect Rajiv Sharma, many past district governors, assistant governors, presidents and secretaries from various clubs from the Rotary International District 3030.
 
 Taking the responsibilities as the new president, Shahani said, “I’m really delighted because I now have a chance to give back something to the society. Together we will try to achieve more and I am confident that my team will deliver — they are the ones who will make the impossible, possible.”
 
 The club has already started the year with a bang by undertaking projects in a short span of time, like Ganesha Puja nirmalya collection, blood donation drive, tree plantation projects and education aid to underprivileged students of various Nagpur schools.
 
 
