MADURAI: The Madurai bench of the Madras high court on Thursday directed the   government to produce records in a sealed cover relating to the   of   as director general of police (DGP).

 A division bench headed by Justice K K Sasidharan directed the Tamil Nadu chief secretary, chief commissioner of income tax and Directorate Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) to produce records.
 
 Madurai-based trade unionist R Kathiresan filed a public interest litigation seeking to quash the government order giving extension to DGP T K Rajendran and also seeking a direction to the CBI to register a case against him based on the letters sent by the chief commissioner of Income Tax (IT). The petitioner also sought the court’s direction to constitute a special team to investigate the case.
 
 When the petitioner’s counsel A Kannan wanted the court to quash the appointment, the bench told him that the merit selection was beyond the judicial review and institutional integrity should be maintained.
 
 The advocate said, “Here in the case, the integrity of the person appointed as DGP has come into question.”
 
 The bench asked, “What materials do you have to prove it other than media reports?”
 
 Following it, the counsel told that the Income Tax department conducted searches in a gutka manufacturing company in Chennai last year. It seized some documents which revealed payments of bribe to state minister and senior police officer of Chennai city police.
 
 During the period concerned, Rajendran was holding the post of commissioner of Chennai city. I-T department seems to have sent a report to the chief secretary and home secretary for taking appropriate action. However, it has been kept in cold storage. The I-T department found incriminating documents against the present DGP Rajendran.
 
 Besides, the then DGP forwarded the complaint to the DVAC, for which he was forced to resign from his post prematurely. The present DGP was appointed on his last day of his service.
 
 The chief secretary had not sent relevant materials with regard to receiving bribe from gutka company before the Union Public Service Commission. If the chief secretary had done it, the empanelment committee would not have recommended Rajendran and the central government also would not have recommended him in the list of officials eligible to be appointed to the post of head of police of the state. The chief secretary sent the proposal to the UPSC without disclosing the fact of allegation against him, the counsel said.
 
 Further, the state’s opposition party raised this issue in the Tamil Nadu legislative Assembly. The chief minister had replied that the issue had been referred to the DVAC.
 
 If the present DGP is allowed to discharge his duty, the public will lose their confidence. His extension will have adverse effect on the law and order situation and on the administration of criminal justice in the state besides will make the enquiry pending before the DVAC meaningless, the counsel said.
  
 The court adjourned hearing on the case to July 12.
 
