After a long time, there was finally a government announcement that made Gurgaonwallahs happy – paying service charge at a restaurant will now be voluntary and customers can choose not to pay it if they are not satisfied with their dining experience. If the list of charges on your dinner bill often left a bad taste in your mouth, the government has now clarified that the service charge cannot be mandatorily applied by restaurants. The Centre has also asked states to ensure that hotels and restaurants display this information on their premises. “A number of complaints from consumers have been received that hotels and restaurants are following the practice of charging ‘service charge’ in the range of 5-20%, in lieu of tips, which a consumer is forced to pay irrespective of the kind of service provided to him,” the Union Consumer Affairs Ministry said in a statement.
 While diners are delighted, many restaurants, as well as the National Restaurant Association of India (NRAI), still maintain that they will not make the service charge optional, and will give the option to the customer of not eating at their venue.
 
 
 
 Riyaaz Amlani,  , stressed that what has come from the ministry is a “press advisory and not an order.” He says, "There are judicial pronouncements to support that the service charge can be charged by hotels and restaurants. It is for restaurants to decide as a policy if they want to charge service charge or not. The information about the service charge should be clearly mentioned on the menu and displayed in the restaurant, and then customers can decide if they want to dine and pay it. If they don’t want to pay the service charge, they can go to some other place. My point is, someone can’t have a pizza and then decide after eating that the pizza wasn’t good they won’t pay for it. What we have received is not a judicial order."
 
  Many other restaurants also say that they will continue to charge service charge and that this will be displayed on the restaurant premises, and the customer can decide if he/she wants to dine there or not. "We put up a board starting Tuesday that service charge is part of our menu, and if the customer doesn’t want to pay it, he/she can walk out of the restaurant. We can”t leave it to the customers to decide after they have dined if they want to pay service charge or not. That will lead to more confusion," says Sahil Sambhi from Molecule Air Bar in Gurgaon.
 
 
 
 When asked about the legal implications of restaurants still mandating service charge,  ,  , consumer affairs, tells us, "The department of consumer affairs in the notification has asked restaurant owners to display information about the service charge not being mandatory, and that it will only be paid at the customers” discretion. The restaurants/bars” monopolistic approach of informing dinners beforehand, that if they want to dine, the service charge will be applicable, or else services cannot be provided by them, is totally arbitrary and illegal, diluting the intent of the notification, which gives powers to the customer to judge the services and pay service charge. Unless this notification is either stayed or quashed by any court in India, the restaurants/bars cannot deny customers from availing their services solely on the grounds of payment of service charge."
 
 
 
 Its application being questioned or not, the news still comes as a breather to many who have often been reluctant to argue even when dissatisfied with service. “I always thought that service charge was unfair on customers, as restaurants were already charging for those services by pricing dishes at Rs 500, Rs 1000 and so on. It was just that the cost was hidden. We all were being made to pay 10% extra on the bill and that is why people would not tip as they were already paying service charge. I don’t think it should be voluntary, that may lead to confusion, but that it should be completely removed. Still, this is something positive undoubtedly,” says Akriti Loyalka, a wedding planner in Gurgaon.
 
 
 
  
  (BCCL/Picture for representational purposes only)
 
 
 
 Srishti Arora, a student staying in Gurgaon, says, "Service charge was an added cost to the customer, and some restaurants, who have nothing in the name of service, were also charging 10% on the bill in the name of service charge and there was no way we could question them. This will bring some change in the attitude of the management in those restaurants."
 
 "Agar Rs 1000 ka khana khaya toh uske upar tax aur charges itne saare lagate hain that it looks like another list on your bill. The other thing is that service charge varies in different restaurants, leaving customers confused. Now at least there will be come control and regulation," says Sarabhjot Singh, an entrepreneur.
 
 
 
 Restaurant owners and staff say that service charge was paid to kitchen and service staff, but now that the service charge is being made optional, chances are high that they’ll get less money in hand at the end of every month. “If this change would have come earlier, there was hope that maybe we would make tips if people were not paying service charge. But after demonetisation, when most guests pay through debit or credit cards, who’ll give us tips? Till now, we were at least getting service charge as part of our salary, but now we may have to bear the cut from our salary,” says Amit Kumar, who works at a restaurant in Cyber Hub.
 
 Another service staff member, Rajveer Singh, adds, "Jisko tip deni hoti hai woh service charge pay karke bhi deta hai, bahut log nahi dete, but it hardly mattered to us as service charge was being paid. But now our cash in hand at the end of the month will get reduced."
 
 
 
 Restaurateurs maintain that though this may sound as good news to customers, the service charge was for the common interest of all. Joy Singh from Raasta at Cyber Hub says, "Leaving the decision of paying service charge or not to the customer is unfair to the restaurant staff. Who defines satisfaction? How many people will say that they are happy with the service and willingly pay service charge? The service charge was paid to the kitchen and service staff, and this development is harsh on them."
 
 Restaurateur Priyank Sukhija says that internationally, service charge is a common practice. "But now we will keep it as part of the menu, and have it optional for guests. We will come to know how good or bad in days to come," he says.
 
 Restaurateur Rahul Singh from Beer Cafe, also the honorary secretary of the NRAI, asks, "Across the world, service charge or gratuity is common practice and accepted by the consumer as they know this is for the entire crew - front of house, kitchen, housekeeping, security et al - which works through odd hours, holidays and weekends to provide a perfect dine-in experience. Home delivery or coffee chains don”t levy this charge as it is an over-the-counter transaction. The service charge is levied in other facilities also, even while booking tickets online, so why just single out restaurants?"
 
