NAGPUR: Over one lakh students would be appearing in the first phase of Nagpur University’s winter examinations that start from Tuesday across 127 centres in Nagpur, Wardha, Gondia and   districts. In the second phase, starting from October 10, another 40,000 engineering students would appear.

 While both the initial phases are exclusively for backlog students, exams for over 2 lakh regular as well as backlog students will commence from October 24. In the final phase beginning on November 14, the examinee count would touch 4.25lakh as engineering and LLB streams too would join across 150 centres.
 
 Just like the summer exam, nearly 1,130 exams, question papers would be delivered via email to centres an hour before the start of paper. NU exam section has identified 10-12 notorious centres which would be under scanner of flying squads to prevent unfair practices. Eight squads of six to eight officials each will keep a close watch on all centres. A special all-women squad too has been formed to keep a check on malpractices.
 
 Ahead of the exams, some students of BA, BCom and   complained of not having received hall tickets even by Monday. Director of   and Evaluations   blamed the colleges saying they had failed to send exam forms on time. “Students need not worry as they would still be allowed to appear. The colleges will be asked to pay late fee before hall tickets are issued,” he said.
 
 Asked about arrangements and backups in case of glitches in online delivery of papers,   said, “It can’t be revealed to the media but all measures are in place.”
 
 This year, the   (NU) had notified academic calendar for 2017-18 session in April itself for the convenience of both annual and semester pattern students. Until last year, the schedule used to be declared a month before the start of session around June 16. In the calendar, university advanced entire examination schedule by at least a month. The objective is to facilitate early declaration of results, streamline admissions process and grant more time for students to study.
 
 However, college principals TOI spoke to opposed the move, stating that colleges would get very few days to complete the syllabus. They also pointed out that the university should have taken them into confidence before announcing the move. Interestingly, admissions to some courses like law and BEd are yet to commence.
 
