BENGALURU/GANDHINAGAR: The   high command, fearing further desertions from the Gujarat unit of the party, has spirited away its MLAs to Bengaluru. They are expected to stay here till the crucial Rajya Sabha elections on August 8. 

  While some sources say 44 MLAs have been taken to Karnataka capital others say the figure is 46. 
 
 The new chief whip of the Congress in Gujarat assembly, Shailesh Parmar, told journalists at Ahmedabad airport that the MLAs were being taken to Karnataka.
 
  
  “We are taking the MLAs to Karnataka as there is a Congress government there,” he said.
 
 “The BJP governments in Gujarat and Centre are using all means, including pressure of police, on our MLAs. We are taking them to save democracy,” Parmar said.
 
 The Gujarat Congress MLAs landed at Bengaluru’s Kempegowda International airport in the early hours of Saturday and were whisked off to a resort nearby.
 
 The Congress had 57 MLAs in the 182-member Gujarat assembly till desertions began. Now its strength in the state assembly has come down to 51. 
 
 Ahmed Patel’s re-election to the Rajya Sabha is clearly in jeopardy after three Cong MLAs resigned from the House and defected to the BJP in addition to three others who also resigned as MLAs on Friday. Incidentally, Patel is All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary and close confidante of Congress president  .
 
 With the party’s prestige at stake, and special interest shown by Sonia to ensure Patel is re-elected to the Rajya Sabha, sources in the Congress said the high command had sounded out the state party leadership here on safe-keeping of the MLAs.
 
 The Congress has put Karnataka energy minister D K Shiva Kumar, who has handled similar situations earlier, to take charge of the VIP guests.
 
 Previously too, Karnataka had been a safe haven for the Congress and other parties to safeguard their MLAs. The "resort politics" began with the then Andhra Pradesh chief minister   camping with his supporters in  , on the outskirts of Bengaluru in the 1980s.
 
 Later, the Congress once again favoured Karnataka as a destination for resort politics with the grand old party safeguarding its Maharashtra MLAs at the Golden Palms resort in 2002.
 
 Vilas Rao Deshmukh decided to safeguard his MLAs from poaching ahead of a crucial trust vote against him that year.
 
 Ahmed Patel, who will be contesting for an RS seat for his fifth stint in the House, requires at least 47 votes on August 8 to be re-elected.
 
 Fear gripped the Gujarat Congress after cross-voting by its MLAs during the presidential elections. Several Congres MLAs had voted for the BJP candidate Ram Nath Kovind.
 
 Sources said such being the case, the Congress high command was not in a position to take any risks in the matter. 
 
 The Gujarat Congress which is already in turmoil, ahead of the elections in that state later this year, has also lost its leader of opposition Shankersinh Vaghela. 
 
