PANAJI: The   at   wears a new look, as a   with some minor repairs, has transformed the   into a bright spot in the landscape.

 The simple monument, along the road to the more iconic and palatial  , may not draw much attention.
 
 Devoid of any architectural finery, it is more importantly a historical landmark that serves as a reminder of the British presence for just over a decade in this former Portuguese colony. “The vegetation has been cleared, some repairs were carried out and the painting work has been just completed,” an official of directorate of archives and archaeology (DAA) said.
 
 The monument was lying in a state of neglect intermittently. In 2009, the department had carried out a major restoration effort to conserve it from decay.
 
 “The rearside compound wall had been reconstructed and the main arch at the entrance restored,” a former DAA official said.
 
 The British occupation in Goa occurred during the Napoleonic wars from 1797-1813. Being an ally of United Kingdom, Portugal sought British help and received a 10,000-strong army, which took up positions in strategic locations from Mormugao to Aguada coast, defending the Tiswadi coast.
 
 The occupation of Goa was largely peaceful and soldiers who died here were buried in the cemetery. “There are also graves and tombs of some dignitaries, commanders and engineers, too,” the former DAA official said.
 
 A few of the 103 tombs with inscriptions were restored in the conservation exercise almost a decade ago. The first burial here dates back to 1808 and the last one to 1912. After the British soldiers left Goa at the end of Napoleonic war, many British nationals had arrived in Goa during the project to lay the railway link to Mumbai in 1870s. “A few British nationals were also reported to have been buried here,” the source said.
 
 A controversy had broken out in July 2015 when a contractor engaged carrying out the work of laying a concrete road from Miramar to Dona Paula had dumped tonnes of debris at the cemetery entrance. 
 
