PATNA: A special   (NIA) court of judge Manoj Singh on Saturday handed over Kanpur   Umashankar Patel, Motilal Paswan and Mukesh Yadav to the investigating agency on a 11-day remand for interrogation. The NIA immediately took custody of the trio, who were earlier sent to the   by the same court.

 Patel, Paswan and Yadav’s superiors – Brijkishore Giri, Mujahir Ansari and Ashish Singh Kurmi alias Sujeet – are already in the custody of Nepal Police. The trio were taking orders from Giri, who was being commanded by a Nepalese citizen and Dubai-based ISI agent Shamshul Huda.
 
 Sources said Patel, Paswan and Yadav would be taken to the routes they had mentioned in their statements for reconstruction for failed attempt of Ghorasahan blast in Motihari in October as well as derailment of   near Kanpur in which more than 150 passengers were killed on November 21 and   derailment on December 28 in which at least 40 passengers were injured.
 
 Giri and Paswan had earlier revealed that seven persons from Bihar were handed over a cooker like object by an unidentified person in Kanpur. The person later separated from the team and reappeared in Kanpur with a red object, similar to a gas cylinder, near the railway tracks. According to Paswan’s statement, he and few others from Bihar were ordered to stay away from the tracks while other persons were involved in sabotaging the tracks.
 
 Though all the dots in the two Kanpur incidents are yet to be joined, ISI link in the failed Ghorasahan blast attempt is crystal clear before the intelligence and investigating agencies.
 
 The Ghorasahan incident was also discussed by top officials of Bihar police and intelligence agencies at a secret meeting held last week.
 
 The Ghorasahan incident was monitored by Patel in India on the orders of Giri. Patel had roped in Deepak Ram and his uncle Arun Ram of Adapur in Motihari for detonating the explosives. Huda later ordered murder of Deepak and Arun. The two went missing on December 25 and their bodies were recovered from Bara in Nepal on December 28.
 
