New Delhi: More than 200 villages across the country have become  , connecting to the   Payments Bank, and now the company is aiming to enable 5,000 villages to embrace its banking platform, officials said.

 A majority of these villages are in Rajasthan, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. These villages now have basic banking services and the option of making digital payments, and reliance on cash has come down significantly. Company officials said every village, which had no access to formal banking, now has at least one outlet of Airtel Payments Bank. This outlet provides banking services such as deposits, withdrawals and money transfers.
 
 “Residents of these villages no longer have to travel long distances to access banking services and they no longer need to keep their money at home and worry about its safety,” said an official. “They are now able to earn a healthy interest rate on their saving deposits. Most households in these villages have one or more family members working in cities, towns across the country and they can now receive money transfers from their family and friends,” said the official.
 
 These payment banks do not offer loans and several other facilities that are offered by full-fledged banks, and are not allowed to accept deposits over Rs 1 lakh. But, they can be of immense help in taking banking services across the country and into remote areas. 
 
 The Reserve Bank of India has recently given its nod to the   (IPPB) to start its operations.   became the third entity after Airtel to get the central bank’s nod to start operations.
 
 Shashi Arora, MD and CEO of  , said, “With this initiative, we are taking banking services to the unbanked and also enabling them to be less reliant on cash.”
 
 It aims to leverage the telecom major’s vast retail network and reach in rural areas to provide banking services. More than 2.5 lakh neighbourhood retail stores also function as banking points. “This is more than the total number of ATMs in the country. The bank aims to scale its network to 6 lakh points across the country,” the official said, adding that it will not charge any processing fee from its customers and merchant partners for digital transactions, and will encourage them to adopt cashless payments.
 
 The company has invested Rs 3,000 crore in operations and plans to build a digital payments ecosystem with over 5 million merchants. Already over a million merchants are on board the platform.
 
 
