Aparajita.Ray@timesgroup.com 

 Bengaluru: July is over but   renovation is far from completion. Given the tardy pace at which the   is being executed, it’s likely to miss the August deadline set by the BBMP. With the civic agency now expecting the work to finish only by September, traders and residents will have to put up with the mess for another two months.
 
 The project began on February 22 and was expected to be over in six months. During a spot inspection in May, Bengaluru development minister KJ George had taken officials to task, directing them to expedite the work to ensure the street wears a new look by August. However, a reality check by TOI by Monday revealed that digging and pipe-laying remained incomplete at many places.
 
 BBMP officials say the project will be completed by September. “We faced two challenges — nature of the work and the road itself. TenderSURE work is complex because it requires the coordination of multiple agencies. But the bigger problem was the street itself. Sewage from all commercial buildings was being let into the open drain instead of BWSSB sewers and in turn, flowing into the stormwater drain (SWD). Old water pipes were leaking. The whole area was slushy when we started to dig. We first closed the sewers and built new sewage lines. Then we turned our focus to the SWD. By Tuesday, we should be able to lay the water pipes,” said M Lokesh, executive engineer, BBMP, who’s associated with the project.
 
 The Palike encountered another problem at the junction of Rest House Crescent Road. “We discovered an SWD and work at the junction has to be done from scratch. Laying of the road and footpaths should be over by early September,” he added.
 
 As per BBMP’s renovation plan, the street spanning over 700 metres will get a uniform roadway (5.5 metre wide) and pedestrian walkways (2.5-4 metre wide). It will have parking space for 32 four-wheelers and 103 two-wheelers. Citizens will also have access to amenities like LED lamps. 
 
 Boxes: Traders rue losses
 
 Church Street’s trader association claims to be incurring losses amounting to almost Rs 1 crore per day as delay in work completion has reduced footfall by 50% to 60%. Irfan Noor, secretary of the Church Street Occupants Association, said, “We were prepared to bear losses for three or four months. But the work has been delayed and even stalled at times due to many reasons. For the past two months, the road has been off limits for vehicles. We’re getting queries from customers, asking us when the work would be over so that they can come back to shop. Business has dipped by 50%.”
 
 The street houses over 50 fine dining joints, 10-12 pubs and 30 retail outlets, he said, adding that the losses can’t be attributed to the revamp alone. Closure of pubs due to the Supreme Court order banning liquor sale near highways has also contributed to the decline in business. 
 
 Cost has escalated to Rs 12 cr: Palike 
 
 BBMP officials say the project cost has escalated to Rs 12 crore from Rs 9 crore. “Bescom had already shifted its utility conduits before we started the work but we had to pay an extra Rs 3 crore for that. Also, the plan of concretizing the road has been shelved. It will now be covered with cobblestones like old streets in European towns. The wide footpaths envisaged under the project will make the street a safe haven for pedestrians,” said Lokesh.
 
 
