NEW DELHI: India hopes to fund 17 projects in   through a proposed $5-billion line of credit, the highest offered by it to any country so far, which is likely to be finalised when Prime Minister   arrives later this week on her maiden state visit to India since the   government took office.
 
  The bulk of the funds are expected to be used for connectivity projects – railway projects, road construction and maintenance – as India eyes transit to the northeast and Southeast Asia via Bangladesh. Bangladesh finance minister AMM Muhith is currently visiting Delhi to fine-tune modalities of the line of credit.
  
  The loan has a 20-year repayment term, including a grace period of five years and a 1% annual interest rate along with a 0.5%  , which is among the lowest interest rates for any loan extended by one country to another anywhere in the world. In contrast, experts said, Sri Lanka has been caught in a debt trap after receiving loans at a much higher interest rate from China.
  
  Officials said that besides railway connectivity links, ferry services connecting  , Bangladesh and West Bengal, and running cruise liners between the two countries, along with several road projects, could be part of 40 pacts and memorandums of understanding that are likely to be signed during Hasina’s visit.
  
  The connectivity initiatives will also enable Bangladesh to have smooth transport links with other parts of South and Southeast Asia including Nepal and Bhutan, officials said. China has offered $24 billion in development aid to Bangladesh but officials from Dhaka told ET that India is a special friend as a neighbour and others, including China are only partners.
  
  Bangladeshi officials, who did not wish to be identified, said that in the case of China, the project is identified first and then the money is given. But India offers a line of credit first and then identifies the projects. Through transport initiatives, India and Bangladesh plan to revive historical connectivity links snapped after Partition and 1965 Indo-Pak War.
  
  Hasina is due to arrive on Friday but her main day of engagements in India will be Saturday, when she is scheduled to meet Prime Minister Modi, hand over awards to families of   men slain in 1971 war and attend a banquet thrown in her honour by the President.
  
  West Bengal Chief Minister   has been invited to attend the dinner. Hasina has thrice visited India since 2014 on short trips including the BIMSTEC retreat and BRICSBIMSTEC leaders meet in Goa in October last year.
  
