CHENNAI: City residents can now safely gorge on delectable seafood. A state government report has said that   from Ernavur, Kasimedu and Ennore, the places affected by the oil slick since two shops collided on January 28, “is fit for human consumption.”

 The “abnormal” smell of petroleum is not present in the samples said the report, submitted to the Southern bench of the   ( ). The samples included the categories of finfish, crustaceans (prawns, crabs, lobsters, shrimps and crayfish) and molluscs (squids, scallops, snails and oysters).
 
 It also said the death of 52 olive ridley turtles, reported since the collission, “could have happened due to other reasons also.” While the concentration of some petroleum pollutants was below detectable levels, the oil and grease values at some polluted spots were within the prescribed limit for harbour water, it added.
 
 After vessels BW Maple and Dawn Kanchipuram collided at 3.45am on January 28 off Kamrajar port in Ennore, M Shreedhar, counsel for an  , moved the tribunal seeking restoration of the environmental ecosystem. A similar petition was clubbed with his petition.
 
 Atulya Mishra, principal secretary, environment and forest department, filed an affidavit of behalf of the government, detailing survey reports, assessment of cleaning operations, government directives, proposals and minutes of various meetings.
 
 Also, probably for the first time, the government seemed to have a contingency plan for the future. 
 
 The report said that, after an aerial survey, the   reported oil traces from Marina beach to Injambakkam. Around 95% of the oil slick was accumulated south of Ennore, especially at Ramakrishna Nagar Kuppam beach.
 
 The TNPCB issued a showcause notice to the CMD of Kamarajar Port on January 31. The same day the home secretary held a meeting to expedite the clean-up and nominated nodal officers. The Union ministry of petroleum and natural gas directed the state to assess the ecological damage, take remedial action and inform it, said the report.
 
 A meeting held by director general (shipping) discussed facilitation for the fishermen’s compensation. 
 
 The port authorities also filed an FIR against unknown people for causing the accident under the IPC, the report said.
 
