BENGALURU: The entry of   into the BJP fold has emboldened the party to work out a UP model as Karnataka goes to polls in 2018. The state BJP is looking at reworking its present image of being a Lingayat-dominated outfit to an all-inclusive one, making room for all communities.

 Though the caste census survey, which is yet to be released officially, has placed the   and Vokkaliga population at the bottom of the social ladder, they continue to remain the dominant castes in Karnataka. While the Vokkaligas are dominant in Bengaluru (Rural), Ramanagaram, Mandya, Mysuru, Chamarajanagar, Chikkamagaluru, Kolar and Chikkaballapur, the Lingayats are spread across the districts in north Karnataka, which account for nearly 80 of the total 224 assembly seats, apart from a sprinkling presence in south Karnataka.
 
 If BJP sources are to be be lieved, talks are on to rope in Vokkaliga legislators from the Cauvery belt areas of Mandya and Mysuru.These areas are now being shared between the Congress and the JD (S), with the BJP's presence being minimal. The BJP hopes the successful induction of S M Krishna, a Vokkaliga, will help the party shed its image of being Lingayat centric.Though the BJP has Vokkaliga leaders like former deputy CM R Ashoka, MPs   and C T Ravi besides Union minister  , their influence is hardly pan-Karnataka.
 
 “Krishna's entry into the BJP will certainly help the party as he is a credible leader and a chief minister who effectively introduced schemes like   (medical insurance for farmers), midday meals for schoolchildren and Stree Shakti groups. He is seen as a gentleman politician,“ said former legislative council chairman B L Shankar, who shares a good rapport with him.
 
 Under its mission of winning 150 of the total 224 assembly seats in 2018, the BJP also plans to improve its present tally of 12 in Bengaluru Urban district. “Krishna's image as a chief minister who put Bengaluru on the global map will help us,“ party sources said. There are 27 assembly constituencies in Bengaluru Urban district. JD(S), led by former prime minister H D Deve Gowda, has so far been the only alternative for disgruntled Vokkaligas in the Congress. “The BJP had won a few pockets in Gowda's heartland Hassan and subsequently lost them to the JD(S). There is a possibility of the party regaining these seats that are Vokkaliga strongholds,“ BJP sources added.
 
 Meanwhile, it is not going to be a cakewalk for Krishna, who had taken a sabbatical when he was with Congress. Political observers say that the former CM has a challenge before him -prove to BJP brass that he still can deliver. At the formal function where he joined BJP in New Delhi recently , Krishna described it as the 'next stop in his long career in public life.' A BJP functionary, who is skeptical of Krishna proving advantageous to the party , said, “He will be seen as an asset if he can pull a couple of Congress legislators into the BJP.“
 
