If you are a busy parent and want your children to stay engaged during the warmer months, get them enrolled in a number of activities and summer camps that are exclusively for kids. From learning how to swim to learning how to act, we give you a lowdown on a few important ones. 

 
 
 If your child is the adventurous sort, you can always get him/her to try out something new. While this is not a camp, workshops for children are held during this time of the year.  , who is associated with  , says, “We usually have events lined up for children during the months of April, May and June, when the schools close down for summer vacation. We have teachers who specialise in aerial silk and teach these children who enroll for the class. This is one activity that apart from strengthening a child physically, also helps them build concentration and focus. In the workshop that we conducted recently, the story of Krishna and Yashoda was brought alive through aerial silk.” 
 
 
 
 For those who want to sharpen their mental abilities, several chess and math workshops are conducted for children by individuals and groups. Ambika Shahane (34) shares, “My son is nine-year-old and quite inquisitive. To satisfy his curious mind, my husband and I have enrolled him into a chess and math workshop at  . He enjoys these classes and has started playing chess on a regular basis with his grandfather. It’s an excellent way to boost a child’s mind.” 
 
 
  
 Electricial engineer Hemant Nagraju conducts a video-games making classes for kids during the summer months. He says, “I made a drone for my nephew’s project. The word spread and I had many parents from the society approach me to teach their kids and the technicalities of making such gadgets. I now have a bunch of 13 children, who visit my house every evening to learn the mechanics of making video games.” 
 
 
 
 For Preeti Jaiswal (10), the best way to spend her summer vacation is to go for storytelling workshop. She says, “For the past two years, I have been attending story telling workshop at  . The teachers not only narrate stories to us, but train us to do the same. It has also helped me study better. When I have my dictation and recital classes in school, I am able to perform better.”
 
 
 
 Prateek Malajan conducts swimming workshops for kids in the month of April-May. He says, “My friend owns a swimming pool on the outskirts of Mumbai. Along with a couple of friends, we conduct workshops that train children to swim better. These children then go onto participate for state-level championships as well.” 
 
 
 
 Apart from it being a potential creative career-path in the long run, a workshop in theatre helps the young minds to speak, memorise, act decisively and responsibly. It also increases the ability to concentrate and follow directions and strengthens interaction with others. It also teaches a child teamwork and self-discipline. This workshop boosts their confidence and prepares them for challenges of any sort.
 
