COLVA: Villagers in   are worried over the damage likely to be caused by huge piles of construction material ranging from boulders to graphite stones, if the clutter on the eco-fragile beach on the   river mouth is not cleared soon.

 With the monsoon only a few weeks away, residents criticized the authorities for the alleged lack of action to clear the mess on the pristine sandy stretch, as truckloads of mud, cement bags and tetra blocks have been piled up at the site. The contractor engaged by the fisheries department had dumped the material for construction of a 400-odd-metre wall to regulate flow of sand deposits near the Sal river mouth after the department had commenced work around January without the Goa Coastal Zone Management Authority’s (GCZMA) approval.
 
 “The material will be washed off during monsoon and even silt the river further, though the wall is meant to prevent that. Dredging this silt will be an additional burden on the exchequer at taxpayer’s cost,” president, Cavelossim Villagers   (CVF), Iris Passanha alleged.
 
 Passanha had complained to the GCZMA when the work started, alleging that the indiscriminate destruction of sand dunes and ecology in the no-development zone (NDZ) of the   and River Sal would severely degrade the coastal environment. The contractor illegally dumped mud and destroyed sand dunes built on the road along the beach to carry material to the site.
 
 “I had asked for an assessment of the total damage caused by the work, but I have not yet been given the copy of the report,” he said.
 
 “The fisheries department and the contractor will be held liable for the damage that may be caused due to the impact of dumped materials,” he added.
 
 The deposition of sand near the river mouth, which forms a sand bar, hinders the movement of fishing vessels, forcing them to wait for the tide to rise.
 
 The GCZMA had acted on Passanha’s complaint and pointed out that any proposal of construction, development, or repair between 200m and 500m of the high tide line (HTL) from the sea and 100m from the rivers, requires prior approval from the coastal body.
 
 The fisheries department had been issued a stop-work order by the GCZMA with immediate effect and a direction to restore the land to its original condition.
 
 Passanha told STOI that after carrying out a joint inspection, the coastal body told him that there would a hearing, but so far, he has not been invited for one. 
 
 Villagers criticized the Cavelossim panchayat for not initiating action to remove the material. Sarpanch Viola Costa, in turn, blamed the government, stating that the project was undertaken by it.
 
 When asked if the panchayat could recover the security deposit of Rs 50,000 paid to the local body, she said it was for the road and not the construction material.
 
 Later, Costa said she had telephonically directed the contractor to remove the material before monsoons and a letter will be sent soon.
 
