COIMBATORE: At least 5.4 lakh of the total 19.82 lakh households in Coimbatore region, comprising Coimbatore, Tirupur and Nilgiris districts, now don’t pay for electricity as their power consumption is below 100 units, thanks to the scheme introduced by the late chief minister  .

 But, the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation ( ), Coimbatore region, shells out Rs6.25 crore a month to provide first 100 units of electricity free to these households. 
 
 According to sources, 19.82 lakh households in the region enjoy electricity connection. Coimbatore district alone has 6.5 lakh households with electricity. “We provide first 100 units of electricity free to all the 19.82 lakh households in the region. When their power consumption exceeds 100 units, we bill them accordingly. Around 5.4 lakh people don’t have to pay anything at all as their usage is below 100 units,” said a senior officer attached to Tangedco, Coimbatore region.
 
 He added that Coimbatore region needed 2,000 megawatt (MW) of electricity daily to supply households and industrial sectors of the three districts. “As of now, we get sufficient electricity and there is no power cut in the region. The water level has been going down in many dams of the western Tamil Nadu and it would have an adverse impact on the electricity production from March. We will get wind energy only from June. So, power outage is likely from March to May,” the official said.
 
 Tangedco, Coimbatore region, sources said, had been shelling out Rs6.25 crore every month to provide 100 units free electricity to 19.82 lakh households. “We will get back the amount from the state government,” said a senior Tangedco officer.
 
 Apart from household connections, the Tangedco has 40,000 low tension (LT) connections, including 19,000 for power loom sector and tiny industrial sectors across the three districts.
 
 The region has 1,738 high tension (HT) connections as well. Major industrial sectors, mostly in Tirupur district, enjoy the HT connections. The department collects Rs420 crore in electricity bills every month from the three districts.
 
 
