PATNA: Amid reports of miscreants trying to leak   ( )   before and during the   conducted by the   on Sunday, most of the students writing the test were unaware of any such rumours and came out of the examination halls with a smile on their faces.
 
  Over 25000 students took the NEET examination at 32 centres in the state capital. The three-hour test had 180 multiple choice questions from physics, chemistry and biology. Each question carried four marks. However, one mark is to be deducted for a wrong answer.
  
  Ankita Bharti of Notre Dame Academy was satisfied with the paper and expecting to score around 500 marks out of 720. However, she was upset after coming to know about the arrest of a few people while trying to leak the paper. “One of my relatives called and told me about it. Because of such people, students who work have to suffer. No good student will want the examination to be cancelled because we have put in lots of hard work while preparing for the test,” she said.
  
  Amit Raj, who took tuition from a coaching institute for the test, said those involved in such crime should be severely punished. “They not only play with the career of meritorious students, but also bring bad name to the state,” he said.
  
  However, the students were happy over the fact that the paper was easy compared to last year and because of NEET, they need not move to different places to take the entrance examination for admission in different medical and dental colleges.
  
  “The paper was overall easy and there were very few calculation-related questions,” said Bharti, adding, “However, in biology, we had a question on frog, but cockroach was mentioned in the syllabus. Even in Intermediate, we had option to select either frog, cockroach or earthworm to study anatomy.” The same was the reply of Shreshtha, who said the overall paper was easy.
  
  Physics teacher Abu Lias said, “Many of my students met me after the examination. The kind of questions they talked about were directly from the NCERT books.”
