NEW DELHI: When Noida, Gurgaon and Delhi allowed more floors on plots within a kilometre of metro lines, they imposed a charge on the new construction as their share in the bonanza for property owners. Maharashtra levies a 1% surcharge on stamp duty to fund metro rail, monorail and bus rapid transit systems, and Karnataka has a dedicated   (VCF) fund for investment in mass transit systems.

 Such charges will become the norm across all 500 AMRUT (  and Urban Transformation) cities in the country once the Centre's “value capture finance policy framework“ is implemented later this year. This `betterment tax' could be as high as one-third of the increase in the value of land, says a note prepared by the ministry of urban development.
 
 The finance ministry has issued an office memorandum which said, “Government has decided VCF to be an integral part of detailed project report (DPR) of all projects of the central government.“ The ministry has revised the format for memorandum for proposal of projects by the   chaired by the secretary, expenditure, or by the Designated Investment Board chaired by the administrative department concerned to include the VCF mode of funding.
 
 The idea is that if the value of your property increases because of a government project, such as an elevated road, metro rail, or power plant, some part of the increased value should pass on to the developing agency. The government hopes to speed up infrastructure development and improve conditions in cities with this money .
 
 Value capture charges could take many shapes, such as higher circle rates and fees for changing land use, surcharge on stamp duty, land value tax and charges for allowing more built-up area. For example, land value tax will be charged on the increase in the value of land due to new infrastructure.
 
 Rajiv Gauba, secretary, ministry of urban development, told TOI that states and urban local bodies have been using some VCF methods for infrastructure development but not as a revenue tool. He said the VCF framework is almost ready. “Our endeavour will be to make it a permanent feature so that more funds can be generated to build city infrastructure projects and to improve the standard of living in cities.“
 
 VCF methods are also expected to make local civic bodies self-reliant in developing infrastructure. Gauba said his ministry would work with states and local bodies to develop and implement VCF methods for resource generation right from a project's feasibility study stage.
 
 The government expects property owners to accept the policy as they will lose only a part of their gains from infrastructure development. States will also benefit as their revenues go up with infrastructure, but if and how the policy is implemented will be left to each state government. To push states to come on board, the Centre will link its investment in projects to the implementation of VCF schemes.
 
