VISAKHAPATNAM: Visakhapatnam Urban Development Authority (Vuda) and the department of forests have locked horns over the widening of the 1,600 metre (1.6 km) Visakha Valley road connecting National Highway-16 to Vizag-Bheemili  .

 Vuda sources said the widening of the road was proposed by them during the tenure of former vice-chairman N Yuvaraj three years ago.
 
 The city traffic police department has also suggested Vuda widen the road as part of the smart city project. 
 
 Vuda officials prepared an action plan to improve the road network at an estimated cost of Rs 1.5 crore. However, they were unable to go ahead with the project due to strong opposition from the forest department, said sources.
 
 Visakhapatnam divisional forest officer   Chong Teran said the proposed widened road is in the reserve forest area and it has to follow procedure. “I don’t know more details of the project because I joined in January,” Alan said.
 
 Assistant commissioner of police for traffic   said widening of the Visakha Valley road would benefit the public. Traffic cops had requested the road be widened to at least 60 feet (18 metres) to ease vehicle rush as the existing road is very narrow. 
 
 Traffic flow on the national highway would ease and those who wish to go to the beach would no longer need to enter the city, Prabhakar said.
 
 Meanwhile, a senior Vuda official said the authority would take up the project without approaching the forest department. “Instead of laying a new road using tar, we are now planning to improve the existing road by widening the width from 4 metres road to 7 metres at an estimated cost of Rs 1.5 crore. Vuda has already called for tenders for the project. This will widen the road without damaging the flora and fauna of the reserve forest area along Seethakonda,” the officer said.
 
 Vuda also already made marks on the road along the stretch, said Y Hanumantha Rao, a classical dance teacher at Kuchipudi Kalakshetra which is located along the road.   said the road widening is required as the traffic is gradually increasing due to the presence of the   and the rush to beach road. Visakha Valley School principal Dr Vallishnath said heavy vehicles should not be allowed as it is dangerous for the 2,400 students that study in the school. 
 
 Vuda prepared an action plan to improve the road network at an estimated cost of Rs 1.5 crore. But forest department says the proposed road is in the reserve forest area and it has to follow procedure.
 
