After using stock photos of commandos for its promotional activities for years, the Delhi  , for the first time, has used one of its own commandos in a poster. And representing the force in this latest campaign is Nagaland’s Chiewelou Thele.

 The posters, which were released a couple of weeks ago by the  , appeal to the public to help the police serve them better. In the poster, surrounded by various police-issued advisories, stands Thele, holding an AK-47.
 
  A senior police official tells us, “Earlier, we used stock photos of commandos in our campaigns. This time, Police Commissioner   suggested we select one of our commandos instead.” Talking about Thele’s selection, another senior police official says, “We chose her to represent the Delhi Police because she was the best trainee of her batch. She has performed well in all the areas during her training.” She was also chosen to represent the diversity within the Delhi Police. 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 However, Thele has no idea that she was selected because she impressed her seniors with her performance. She says, “I don’t know why I was selected. I was just asked to come for the shoot. The day the posters were released, I got many calls from my friends and colleagues. I never thought that being in the police will give me a face value.”
 
  She adds, “I am a national-level archer and I used to think that competing in archery will make me famous, which never happened. However, my training in archery helped me a lot during rifle shooting. I had never even seen a rifle before joining the police force, but I am the best female shooter of my batch, and the credit goes to my archery training. The basics of archery and shooting are the same, and since I already knew how to hold a bow and arrow and how to focus, it helped me during my commando training. We have to go through different drills during our training, but shooting was something I looked forward to.”
 
 
 
  While most people from the northeast, especially girls, don’t have particularly great things to say about the city – and understandably so – Thele, who is currently posted in Seelampur, is an exception. She tells us that she has not faced any problem in Delhi, except language issues, something she has overcome now. She says, “Hindi seekhne se humko logon se baat karne mein help mil jaati hai aur hum madad kar sakte hain.”
 
  
 
 
