It’s been a stressful couple of weeks for Tollywood folk, what with the excise department zooming in on the industry post the recent drug bust in Hyderabad.   Daggubati’s name too was doing the rounds of social media as one of the alleged ‘suspects’ on the radar, so much so, his father   had to come out and denounce these claims in public. But if all that got him worked up, Rana’s not showing it. 

 “See, I jog for 20 km a day, I work out so much, so hard. To get into the shape I am in, it takes a strict diet regimen. What do you think is going to happen to all that effort if I do drugs? I’ve become used to all this now. There was a time, during my early days as an actor, when allegations like these would get me worried. But today, I am not easily hassled. Earlier, they used to say my family has monopoly over all the theatres; then they said something else; tomorrow it will be another thing. I have learned to take such things in my stride,” says Rana, adding that there are far more interesting things in life that keep him busy. Like? “My next film  , for instance. We have used Augmented Reality (AR) for our 
 motion poster — a first ever in the world of cinema — and I am so kicked about it,” he says, excitedly, proceeding to show it off to us. “If you scan this barcode right here and get the app, you can see   (Aggarwal) and I come alive right in front of you! Fans can even take selfies with us. It’s almost as good as the real deal,” he quips. 
 
 The film will see Rana play a money-lender who sets out to become the chief minister. So, did he take inspiration from his grandfather, the late Ramanaidu, who dabbled in politics?
 
  “my grandfather was never a politician. he was more of a philanthropist who thought politics was a better and bigger medium to serve society. When election time would come, he would be averse to doing certain murky things which have become essential in the big bad world of politics. In fact, our company lost around `25-30 crore during his political stint as we had stopped making films. We were really glad when he quit. Politics is just not our cup of tea. So, no, I didn’t take any references for my role in this film,” he says adding, “I’m seven years old in the industry now and if you look at my filmography, I’ve played a hit man, twice a politician, a musician etc. Ultimately, the ‘film’ is bigger than all of us and I consider myself as an instrument in the hands of the story. I strongly believe that it’s not the actor who chooses the story; the story chooses us.”
 
