NEW DELHI: A 20-year-old   working with local eateries in South Delhi’s Vasant Vihar was arrested on Friday for theft and burglary of electronic goods of students living in hostels in  .

  said that the accused was identified as Noor Islam. “The accused said that he barely made Rs 500 in two days at his job as a delivery boy. He used to sell the stolen phones and laptops to random people at the bus stand for petty prices of Rs 200 to Rs 1,000, depending on the item ,” said a police officer. 
 
 Chinmoy Biswal, additional deputy commissioner of police (south) said, “For the past six months, the accused has been stealing electronic goods of the students living in Munirka. So far we have solved 17 cases of burglary and theft, and have recovered two laptops and six mobile phones.”
 
 Islam told police that he was a native of West Bengal and lived in Munirka village. He used to deliver cooked food to students residing in rented accommodations in the area. 
 
 Early in the morning, he would come to collect the empty tiffins delivered the night before. On finding the students sleepy and the doors of their rooms often unlatched, he stole their belongings and fled. 
 
 In most of the cases, the complainant — mostly students — complained that they had lost their laptops, mobile phones and other electronic items. 
 
 Investigations led the police to observe that most of these were noticed at around the same time when delivery boys went around the area to pick up empty tiffins. A team under SHO Vasant Vihar Sukhdev Singh was formed to crack the cases.
 
 On April 4, while on patrol duty, a police team was tipped off about a delivery boy carrying a laptop. On being questioned, Islam said that he was transporting it for a student who had asked him to give it to another student living nearby. He knew them as he delivered tiffins to both of them. 
 
 However, after sustained inquiry, the accused confessed that he had stolen the laptop. Following this, a   was registered at Vasant Vihar police station and Islam was arrested.
 
