MUMBAI: The largest gymnastics centre in India will come up in Thane in the next one year. The facility is being built by   and will be handed over to Thane Municipal Corporation after it is ready. Tata Housing spokesperson Rajeeb Dash on Wednesday said the   arm of Tata Group had signed a memorandum of understanding with the Thane municipal corporation last week.

 The 1.2 lakh-square foot centre will come up on Pokhran Road II as a public-private partnership project and its cost is pegged at Rs 25 crore. Thane civic chief Sanjeev Jaiswal was not available for comment. The Tata Housing official said the facility will cater to all gymnastic disciplines.
 
 The ground-plus-two-storey building will have an arena to accommodate six disciplines of gymnastics, two team rooms with separate areas for players and coaches, a physiotherapy room, a music room, VIP rooms, a jury room, an administration area, a gymnasium and a yoga room. It will also have a viewers’ gallery for up to 300 people.
 
 The facility would provide a major boost to the sport in the city that has emerged as a formidable breeding ground for world-class rhythmic gymnasts. “In the last five years, Thane has brought home a majority of national medals for Maharashtra,” says Mahendra Chemburkar of the Maharashtra Amateur Gymnastics Association, pointing out that Pooja Surve, an international gymnast and coach and a Shiv Chhatrapati awardee, has helped Thane produce more than 70 state players, 25 national champions and six international players recently. As someone who achieved a world ranking of 16 in the Commonwealth Games of 2010, Surve’s international accolades pull aspiring gymnasts from as far as Assam, Hyderabad and West Bengal to her rhythmic gymnastics academy in Thane.
 
 Surve pointed out that the new facility, including flooring and equipment, will be designed as per international standards and serve all six disciplines of gymnastics. “Moreover, it will exclusively focus on the sport of gymnastics, allowing young and seasoned players to train in an uninterrupted and safe environment. I believe facilities of this kind will encourage younger players to pursue the sport and be trained up to Olympic standards.”
 
 For building this international facility, Tata Housing has been compensated by way of transfer of development rights (TDR). The Thane corporation sanctioned the realty firm 4,000 square metres of TDR, which it can use as additional construction rights for its upcoming residential project Serein, on Pokhran Road II. The residential project is spread over 10 acres. The gymnastic centre will come up on 1.5   of this land.
 
 There is a spurt in interest for gymnastics—a low-priority sports in the country so far—after Deepa Karmakar created history by becoming the first Indian woman gymnast to qualify for the Rio Olympics. She missed the bronze medal by a whisker, but emerged as a national hero after her performance.
 
