GANDHINAGAR: After finishing a three-day 
  ,   vice-president   is all set to embark on his second road show — in central Gujarat — spanning three days from October 9-11. In the first leg of his travels, Gandhi deployed “ 
  ”, starting his tour from Dwarka. He visited Dwarkadish temple, Chotila temple, Khodaldham in Kagvad, Jalaram Bapa temple in Virpur, and Dasi Jivan temple near Jasdan. He focused on wooing farmers, traders, and those affiliated to religious and social organizations.

 In the second stage of his ‘Temple Run, Gandhi will visit Santram temple in Nadiad, Bhathiji Maharaj temple in Fagvel, Ma Kali temple in Pavagadh, and Dakor temple in Kheda district. Gandhi will lead two major road shows in Vadodara and Bodeli, hold 18 baithaks, four samvad sessions, and meet farmers, traders, and union leaders.
 
 
 
 
 Gandhi’s “soft Hindutva” approach is meant to help his party negate the “minority appeaser” jibes. 
 
 Though the Congress strategy is not to distance itself from its core minority vote bank, Gandhi’s outreach aspires to broaden the support base. After  , Gandhi will start his North Gujarat yatra and visit Ambaji, Bechraji, and Unjha among other places.
 
 A senior leader in the state Congress said, “After his successful road shows in Saurashtra, Rahul Gandhi will tour central Gujarat covering 500km across eight districts. There will be four major public meetings at places such as Borsad, which is the home town of the state Congress president, Bharatsinh Solanki.”
 
 The leader said that Gandhi will try to visit as many religious places as possible. On the other hand, he also plans to meet representatives of the tribal community of Dahod; a traders’ delegation from Vadodara and other parts of central Gujarat; farmers; Patidar community leaders; and some members of industy associations. “He may visit Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel’s birthplace Karamsad too,” the leader said.
 
 BJP president Amit Shah kicked off the state BJP’s Gaurav Yatra from Karamsad in Central Gujarat on October 1. Central Gujarat is considered to be a Congress domain. However, over the past decade, the BJP has made inroads into it. A major battle between the two parties is expected here.
 
