PUNE: A 20-year-old college student, brutally assaulted near Ambegaon College here on Sunday night, breathed his last early Tuesday at a hospital on Pune-Satara Road.

 Two college students have been arrested for allegedly murdering their senior. The deceased, injured as well as the alleged assailants are BBA students of the same college.
 
 Bharati Vidyapeeth police identified the deceased student as Gaurav Jadhav (20). He was from Satara and was pursuing BBA course from a college at Ambegaon, off Sinhgad Road. 
 
 Jadhav’s classmates Akash Karadkar, Manoj Chordiya and Abhijit Shinde too were assaulted by the suspects.
 
 The suspects fled after assaulting the deceased and his friends. A team headed by senior inspector Vijaysinh Gaikwad nabbed them near Akurdi Railway Station.
 
 Assistant inspector V S Mhamunkar told TOI that police have arrested Ashish Vibhishan Pawar (19) of   and his accomplice Akash Anilkumar Doke (19) of Hingne Khurd.
 
 Mhamunkar said that the two suspects are first-year BBA students. While the injured and deceased students were in the last year of BBA course.
 
 On Sunday night, at around 11 pm, the suspects and deceased and his friends had gathered near a tea stall near the college premises. “The suspects hail from Marathwada region. The deceased and injured students knew the alleged assailants as they were from the same college,” he said.
 
 On that day, the deceased and the suspects discussed their hometowns and other issues. Gradually, discussions turned into arguments and heated words were exchanged, Mhamunkar said.
 
 After this, the deceased and injured students left the spot on their motorcycles. However, the assailants lay in wait for them armed with bamboos and sticks. As soon as the deceased and the injured reached the spot, the suspects hit them on the head and chest. Jadhav sustained serious head injuries in the incident.
 
 On Monday, police filed a case of attempt to murder against the duo, but murder charges were framed on Tuesday.
 
 
