BENGALURU:   may seem like relics from another era. But for 31-year-old Aditya Sanjit, memories of grabbing the front seat of the upper deck are still fresh.

 “I was 11 years old when double-decker buses used to ply on city roads. We would come down to  , hop on to the bus and ride till Kids Kemp, getting a ringside view of the verdant MG Road boulevard,” he said.
 
 For those who fancy such joyrides, here’s good news. Double-decker buses are likely to return to Bengaluru’s roads. With the Centre publishing specifications for such buses,   is expected to buy four or five of the vehicles by the year-end.
 
 Confirming the development, BMTC MD Ekroop Caur said: “A few states have been willing to buy double-decker buses for capital cities. But there were no standard specifications till now. We are waiting for an opportunity to buy four or five of them.”
 
  (ARAI), the certified organization to fix specifications for vehicles to be used in India, published double-decker specifications in April 2016.
 
 Double deckers were a common sight on Bengaluru roads in the 1970s and early 1980s. Old-timers recall the brief journeys they undertook in the buses on routes like Shivajinagar-City Market, Majestic-Jayanagar IV Block, Gandhi Bazaar-Majestic, Indiranagar-Majestic and Jayanagar-Shivajinagar, literally enbabling them to touch the green canopy.
 
 An incident in the 1980s when a double-decker bus ferrying schoolchildren tilted near Ramakrishna Mission in south Bengaluru was a turning point. BMTC, which was called Bangalore Transport Service at the time, slowly began to pare down its fleet. The buses were completely taken off the roads in 1997.
 
 The lone double-decker bus that remained in the fleet was used for city tours till about 2014. Called Bengaluru Darshan, it was a hop on-hop off service, taking tourists around important sightseeing spots like Vidhana Soudha, Tipu Fort, Ulsoor Lake, MG road, and Iskcon, Gavi Gangadhareshwara and Bull temples.
 
 BMTC, however, is still not confident whether double-decker buses will work in the city. “Canopies on roads will obstruct the buses. Secondly, only some roads are wide enough for them to turn as their turning radius is more than that of ordinary buses. Routes have not been indentified yet,” Caur said.
 
 The corporation has not decided whether these buses will be deployed for general services or restricted to tourism purposes. In 2009, a pitch was made to buy one or two double-decker buses but it died a quick death. BMTC will have to bear the cost of procuring the buses.
 
 Mumbai is the only metropolitan city which still holds on to this mode of transport. Brihanmumbai Electricity Supply and Transport Undertaking (BEST) still has 122 red double-decker buses in its fleet but only a few ply, mostly for city tours and film shoots.
 
 It is not fit to run double-decker buses in Bengaluru because of many reasons. The roads are narrow and there are too many overhead cables which will disturb the movement of these buses. In the present raffic scenario, other vehicles will not cooperate with a large slow-moving bus. BMTC intends to re-introduce a couple of such buses only for tourism purposes but the scope is limited
 
 By November, BMTC aims to add 3,000 buses and increase its fleet size to 9,000. Caur said 300 buses have already been inducted. “Most of them have been used to replace old buses. We are in the process of scrapping about 1,000 old buses. A few have been deployed to augment new routes,” she said.
 
 Chief secretary Subhash Chandra Khuntia told TOI the government intends to double the BMTC fleet in a couple of years to cater to the increasing demand of public transport.
 
