Panaji: Much as there was euphoria in the Bengal camp after a 32nd   title, you could sense it was a case of mission set out for and accomplished.
 
  The players responded to a man that this title, Bengal’s first in six years, was the target of each and every player in the squad. Experienced or otherwise.
  
   , head coach, and by all accounts and impressions, a mentor to every player in the squad. The 56-year-old gushed about the discipline of his players and the sense of obedience.
  
  But it took until the second half that his wards got into the groove.
  
  “My players were making a few mistakes in the first half. At half-time I set things right. Told my side-backs to move inside and deny Goa space in the middle. It worked,” said Banerjee.
  
  Banerjee’s squad was devoid of national championship appearances at any level before the tournament. And they were up against a Goan team of some pedigree what with nine players of I-League experience in their ranks.
  
  But it failed to overawe Bengal. Certainly not Manvir Singh, scorer of the match-winner that silenced a vociferous crowd. “I was a member of the Punjab team that finished runners up in Ludhiana two seasons ago and I really wanted to win it for Bengal in my first appearance for the state. I am so proud today,” said the tall striker, now with   from Minerva Academy, in the Calcutta Football League.
  
  Statistics tell the story of the other protagonist, goalkeeper Sankar Roy, who remained unbeaten in 600 minutes of open play.
  
  Roy, efficient if not spectacular, gave Bengal a feeling of being one-goal up whenever they took the pitch. Off the pitch, Roy knows a thing or two about fighting the odds. His father passed away when he was 12 and his mother makes ends meet working as a domestic.
  
  “This title means a lot to me,” the 22-year-old said. “I phoned my mother this morning and she told me, as she did before I set out for Goa, that I must win the title for Bengal,” he revealed.
  
  The centre of Bengal’s solidity and resilience must surely be  , captain, and bulwark of the defence. “We hadn’t conceded a goal in five matches and we were determined not to do so in the final,” the 24-year-old said a little before joining his team-mates for dressing room celebrations.
  
   , braving an ankle injury to emerge best striker of the tournament, looked the stand-out player on the day. An ‘import’ from Manipur, the Southern Samity player revealed that winning the title was his burning ambition for Bengal.
  
  No big names nor big-match experience, Bengal have exemplified the efficacy of teamwork, the Santosh Trophy title, for whatever its worth, being a treasured testimony.
  
  /////
