Ghaziabad: A fire broke out in an apartment in   in Ahimsa Khand 2,  , around 9am on Thursday.

 The blaze erupted in flat No. E-204 on the second floor of the society when a curtain close to a lighted lamp caught fire. The tenant’s parents were at home but escaped unhurt. 
 
 However, important documents, gold ornaments, clothes, a wooden cupboard and an AC vent worth over Rs 60,000 were completely burnt. It was put out by the society’s maintenance staff who used the updated firefighting system in the society to combat the flames. The fire spread after the lamp lit in the balcony of the house by the tenant’s mother close to a curtain, was left unattended after prayers were offered. 
 
 “It was quite windy in the morning which made the curtain sway and come in contact with the lamp flame, resulting in the fire,” a society resident said. The fire spread quickly, owing to heaps of old newspapers kept in the balcony which easily caught fire. 
 
 The flames then spread to the adjoining living room door, and burning a major portion of the living room’s ceiling, said the society residents. “My mother was offering prayers in the balcony where we keep a small temple for idols. She lit a lamp and left it unattended for a while. Meanwhile, one of the curtains caught fire,” the tenant said, requesting anonymity.
 
 “The flames were so strong that they even spread to the balcony of the third floor flat,” said  , RWA president, Exotica Elegence Society.
 
 “After spotting the fire, Rohit Chaudhary, a security guard posted in the same block, rushed to help. We used fire sprinklers installed in the flat and fire extinguishers to extinguish the flames soon,” said Lokesh Chaudhary, security supervisor, Exotica Elegance Society. 
 
 One fire tender reached the spot 15 minutes after the fire was put out, claimed residents. However, the chief of the fire department blamed the delay in reaching the spot on traffic congestion.
 
 “We called the fire department on time, but they took so long to arrive. In the meantime, the flames were put out,” Rai said. The parents of the tenant were the only occupants of the house when the fire broke out. The tenant’s father is paralysed and bedridden.
 
 
