NAGPUR: To mark the birth anniversary of Padma Vibhushan late Kishori Amonkar, a tribute programme was organized by Yashwantrao Chavan Pratishthan at Dhanwate Hall, on Monday evening. 

 The audio-visual programme titled ‘Swarartharamani’ attempted to highlight Amonkar’s life and contribution by means of videos, songs, narration and singing.
 
 Playwright Mahesh Elkunchwar, littérateur Asha  , and vocalist Chitra Modak were the chief guests of the evening. President of the organization Girish Gandhi was also present. Sadhana Shiledar rendered the concept and headlined the  .
 
 Referring to ‘Gaana Saraswati’ Amonkar, Modak said, “She was extremely talented and her practice was of incomparable quality. She inspired the audience to introspect. Her songs had depth and were soulful. She didn’t just sing in consideration of what her audience will like, rather, her songs were a form of redemption for souls. They had emotions, creativity and were complete in themselves. She sang for her own satisfaction.”
 
 Elkunchwar said that Amonkar was a bright and wonderful singer. “Someone called Amonkar a rebel, and his analysis spread among others who began sharing that opinion. Whoever says ‘no’ to the conventions of the society and dares to do creative things is a rebel. Her songs, consisting of many alaaps, were a balance of sur, taal and laya. It evoked emotions within listeners. She never left her roots of Jaipur gharana,” he said, adding that her magic was a result of a training of over 30 years. 
 
 “Understanding her nature of songs and training oneself is a big tribute we can give her,” he said, adding, “She kept looking for the intricacies of raga throughout her life.”
 
 Asha Bage referred to Amonkar’s singing as rich and which inspired the audience to widen their imagination. “It made them listen to the songs with awareness. She gave us the restlessness of an artiste and made us realize what is bliss for a performer. Throughout her life, she kept searching for something, and she discovered that in the end, in the form of emotions and melody. She presented us with them,” said Bage, adding that Amonkar made her generation learn how to listen to songs.
 
 The audience then heard her famous composition ‘Aaj sahyona yaar’, followed by her popular banish in raag Bhoopali ‘Sahela re’. Shiledar performed in raag Rageshri in tritaal.
 
 
