LUCKNOW: It's official now.   will step out of the Gandhi family borough of Amethi and Rae Bareli to campaign for the Congress-SP alliance in Uttar Pradesh.

 Congress on Tuesday released a list of 40 star campaigners for the first phase of UP polls which features Priyanka along with party chief Sonia Gandhi,   Gandhi and former PM Manmohan Singh, among others.
 
 While Priyanka's name has featured on Congress's list of star campaigners in the past too, notably in the 2014   polls, she has confined herself to Amethi and Rae Bareli.However, it is the first time that the party has issued a phasewise list of star campaigners, pointing to the exception it has made for Priyanka. This is an indication that Priyanka is ready for a larger role in the coming elections.Sources said she was likely to campaign in half a dozen constituencies outside the family pockets and her role may in crease as polling progresses.
 
 In earlier years, Priyanka's name featured on the list to allow her to campaign in Amethi and Rae Bareli.
 
 Sources confirmed there was pressure on Priyanka to step out of the family pockets for canvassing. “She is likely to move beyond her traditional role,“ a senior member said.
 
 The formal political launch of the Gandhi scion comes soon after Congress credited her with playing a key role in stitching together the alliance with SP.
 
 It also gives credence to speculation over the likelihood of Priyanka's electoral debut in 2019, replacing Sonia from Rae Bareli Lok Sabha seat.
 
 Priyanka has lately been engaged in the party's political planning like brother Rahul's Kisan Yatra in UP last September and alliancemaking with SP.
 
 Preliminary talks for the alliance, in fact, were conducted between Akhilesh Yadav and Priyanka at a closed-door meeting at Ghulam Nabi Azad's house on December 14.
 
 The two have since been in touch over phone and text messages directly and through Kannauj MP Dimple Yadav .
 
 Priyanka's emergence also signals Congress's keenness to give everything it has to counter BJP , which is also throwing in its full might to win UP .
 
 While BJP is again depending on PM   to swing it for the saffron brigade, Congress is banking on the youthful four -Rahul, Akhilesh, Priyanka and Dimple.
 
