CHENNAI: East Bengal’s hopes of winning the I League took a beating following their consecutive losses to   and  . The league now goes into a two-week break and their coach   has returned to Australia on a holiday. He has endured a few heartbreaks as   manager earlier, and knows things are getting tough this time around as well with   taking a three-point lead with four games to go. But he is not ready to give up hope. During a chat with TOI, Morgan spoke about his expectations from the rest of the season. 

 
 
 
 
 Yes, there are similarities. But I don’t think there is any mental barrier for the players. We need to ask ourselves whether we have done enough to win the matches we lost. We struggled defensively and have lost ugly. The goalkeeping and defensive errors have been inexplicable. This is the time when we will need to dig deep and introspect. We need leaders and characters in the team. At the moment, I am not seeing too many.
 
 
 
 We started off brilliantly and then had a few hiccups. There was a great chance for us to take advantage of Saturday’s results (Aizawl and Mohun Bagan dropping points) but we came up short. Had we won our last two matches we could have been sitting pretty at the top. Now, our title run depends on the results of other teams. The last four games have become extremely crucial after we return from the break. But then there will be a lot of upsets before the end of the season.
 
 
 
 During my first stint, East Bengal gave me a three-year contract, which meant they believed in my coaching abilities. I was happy with the free hand given to me to build my team. Clearly, we had the edge over Mohun Bagan then. Such was their performance that Bagan had to change managers three times in those three years. Soon after, tables turned in their favour. This shows that if you have stability at the club, then things will be easy to achieve. But then, you cannot please every official. And I definitely don’t go out of my way to do that. But as long as we are pulling in the right direction, I am fine with the set-up.
 
 
 
 I enjoy a celebrity status here which I miss back home. When I go to the supermarket, people acknowledge me and fall at my feet. It is a humbling experience. But they have also vented their frustration. Once we were 32 games undefeated and then lost two games in local league, including a tie against Bagan. And people tried to spit on me. They are emotional and I understand that.
 
 
 
 We have missed Wedson’s creativity. He is a playmaker and likes to carry the ball with him and has a great vision.
 
 The best thing about Sony is that he has consistently performed for three years. He can play with both feet and can be dangerous on the wings when he tries to cut in. He has proved himself. Wedson has just arrived and showed his potential by already scoring six goals. He was playing on the left wing in Bangladesh, but India I am using him in a different position here. But he has adapted well.
 
 
 
 I don’t believe Bagan have been a one-man show. They do miss Sony if he is not playing but he single-handedly has not changed the team’s fortunes. They clearly played according to a plan and chose their players accordingly. They got the desired results because the players added value and created impact.
 
 
 
 If ISL is going to be the main league and I-League is accorded secondary status, then there has to be promotion and relegation. There has to be a motivation for I-League clubs. The ideal way is to have three leagues and let the players know that if they do well, their team can get promoted to top league. The games will be competitive and it will eventually improve the standard of  . At the moment, the I-League clubs are at the risk of losing their best players. The clubs don’t know their future and it creates uncertainty in the mind of players as they obviously don’t want to miss out on playing in ISL.
 
 
