PUNE: A team of   from the city’s   (PRC) of the Indian Army won the   for the third consecutive year in Chennai recently.

 According to the team, sheer discipline delivered the desired results. The finals of the championship concluded on December 30 when the PRC team beat their tough competitor Punjab with a score of 37-17.
 
 War veteran Anthony Pareira, who founded the PRC basketball team in 1979 and currently manages it, was hit by a shell that damaged his spine in the 1971 Indo-Pak war. “This year the competition was tough as Delhi and Punjab teams were playing well. It was a daunting task for our players to execute their game plans but they did it eventually," the veteran told TOI. 
 
 Discipline comes naturally to the team. Pareira said, “We are army personnel and do not need to call each other to turn up for practice sessions at the centre. It is ingrained in us and is helping us in improving our game.”
 
  (retd), a master of the offensive attack, who has earned the nickname Singham, was the highest scorer of the championship with a whopping 66 points in four games, including the final. "Our daily practice has helped us. We stick to our game plan and could switch from offensive to defensive modes or vice versa with ease. But we preferred an offensive strategy throughout the tournament." Patwal explained.
 
 For the players, the game has become an inseparable part of their lives. The team captain, KN Reddy, from front Mechanised Infantry, was injured in 1997 at Pokhran in Rajasthan and came to the centre in 2001. "We are quite delighted with this performance," he said.
 
 The team's head coach, Subedar Sharad Nagane of Bombay Engineering Group (BEG) has been working with the PRC team since 2006. "We had a month to prepare for the tournament. We had specific plans for each game our players executed them perfectly. The team's main strength is the instinct to dominate in all forms. They hardly allow opponents to score.”
 
 Nagane has been mainly focusing on upper body fitness of players as it is crucial for them. "As they have restricted movements, we select players strategically and rope each of them for different roles like passing, scoring, etc. So there is no confusion during the game. We make them understand their roles clearly." Nagane added.
 
 Meanwhile, Wheelchair Basketball Federation of India (WBFI) president Madhvi Latha said, "When we started the tournament three years ago, only five teams had participated but this year the number has doubled which is very positive sign. People are taking the game seriously. The performance of each team has reached a different level too.”
 
