KOLKATA: The Robinson Street mystery would well be solved if  's memoirs see the light of print. 

 Those who have read the memoirs - compiled in 75 pages in Microsoft Word - already know De's version of the case that had not stopped intriguing the city as one detail after another continued to tumble out of his house, christened "Horror House" and "Hitchcock House" since June, 2015.
 
 Now, the "truth" about the saga of bizarre that was hitherto unknown has been unearthed and De has typed the words "I'm no killer". It is clear the former employee of software giant  , who was found living with the corpse of his sister for six months and the remains of his dogs for nearly ten months, had been suffering from intense spells of delusions.
 
 De's crisply-written, coherent and informative memoir does not hide the pangs of mental disorder and emotional trauma that he had been going through as he was in a denial about his sister Debjani's death. In his memoir, he completely dissociates himself from that state of mind, when he had refused to let-go of "Bani-di".
 
 The autobiography has De describing himself as unwell and indisposed. He admits, once he had recovered from schizoaffective disorder, he would not even dream of not cremating a body or keeping the death of his sister a closely guarded secret. The memoir reflects De thoroughly knew himself and had a rational sense of self-reflection. He made no attempt whatsoever to justify all that happened between August 2014 (when their pet dogs died) and June, 2015, when he was found with skeletons of the dogs and those of his sister.
 
 Partha had just finished writing the memoir and added the last page the day before he was found dead. In the last few pages, he portrays himself as being truly happy, looking forward to life, and his determination to leave his past well behind him.
 
 De penned everything from the days he worked at the computer section of a newspaper house to his prayers at St. Ignatius Church in Ekbalpore. He warmly speaks of people in his small world. Neither did he forget his former colleagues who he seemed quite fond of.
 
 The radio physics B. Tech graduate was happy with the life he had been leading - shopping, driving and going to the movies by himself and making friends - virtual and real. Some of them have been mentioned in his memoir.
 
 Months after De spilled the beans before police, doctors and psychiatrists, he seems to have bared open his mysterious life all over again.
 
 
