FAZILKA: Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president and deputy chief minister   managed to retain his Jalalabad assembly seat by defeating comedian-turned politician Bhagwant Mann of Aam Adami Party (AAP). Ravneet Bittu, Congress MP from Ludhiana and grandson of former Punjab chief minister Beant Singh, finished at the third position.

 Sukhbir has registered his victory on the seat for the third time but the margin remained low at 18,500 votes as compared to 52,240 in 2012 and around 80,000 votes in the 2009 by-election. Contrary to the reports of a surprising result at Jalalabad, Sukhbir maintained lead in all the rounds of counting of votes held at Fazilka.
 
 In the first round, he led from Bittu but in the remaining rounds the latter was pushed to third position and Mann remained on the second. According to local leaders, besides anti-incumbency, one of the reasons behind lower victory margin of Sukhbir this time, was his differences with Ferozepur MP Sher Singh Ghubaya, who has a strong influence on Rai Sikh voters playing a key role in the elections.
 
 Around 30% of nearly 1.9 lakh voters in Jalalabad constituency belong to the Rai Sikh community. In these elections, 1,68,522 votes were cast against total 1,93,912 votes. Located near the India-Pakistan border, more than 75% population in Jalalabad constituency resides in rural areas.
 
 This time, Sukhbir neither visited the counting station on the counting day nor he carried any road show to celebrate his victory. Harpreet Singh, Jalalabad halka in-charge of SAD, told TOI that people had voted because of the immense development done in the constituency by party in the past 10 years. Mann did not pick up calls despite several attempts. 
 
 Some AAP supporters standing outside the counting station said because of Bittu, Sukhbir managed to win because votes got split between Congress and AAP. As per the data released by Election Commission of India, Sukhbir secured 75,271 votes, Mann got 56,771 votes and Bittu garnered 31,539 votes. 
 
 AAP national convener Arvind Kejriwal had tried to play a master stroke by fielding party’s Sangrur MP Bhagwant Mann from Jalalabad due to his satirical style of attacking Badals among the masses. Later, Congress had fielded its high-profile MP Bittu. Both, however, failed to impressed the voters. 
 
