 Bareilly: Residents of Akbarpur Gahara village in Sambhal district are waiting to see how soon and effectively the UP government’s recent orders to power firms to ensure 18 hours of uninterrupted power supply to all villages are implemented. The sole transformer in this remote village got burnt three months ago. Not having seen electricity for three months, villagers now use power cables for hanging clothes for drying.   Village headman Pritam Singh told TOI, “Due to apathy of power department, we are forced to live in darkness for the past three months. Examinations are going on in schools and colleges and our kids are forced to study in candle light. We have been running from pillar to post ever since our transformer got burnt, but to no avail. All the officials we met, from the sub-divisional officer to senior officials in Moradabad, they all assured us that our problem will be resolved in 2-3 days, but nothing was done.”    Akbarpur Gahara has a population of 7,000 where over 250 households have the power connection. The village which has a total requirement of around 300KV got just one transformer of 63KV, which couldn’t take the load and got burnt, the village head claimed.     A village youth said that they had to visit friends in neighbouring villages every day to charge their mobile phones.    Yogesh Kumar, a BA final year student, said, “It’s exam time. I and my other siblings are busy with our preparations. Since we help our father in the filed during daytime, we can study only in the evening. With just two kerosene lamps in our house, it becomes difficult for all of us.”    Sub-divisional officer Sunil Kumar, however, had a different story to tell. “Within a week, we had repaired the burnt transformer, but when we reached the village to install it, villagers refused to take it and demanded a 200KV transformer. Now we have sent an estimate to the discom and hopefully two new transformers of 100KV each will be installed by this weekend or the next,” he said.    On Tuesday, chief minister Yogi Adityanath had ordered 18-hour power supply in villages, 20-hour at tehsil level and in Bundelkhand region besides deciding to ink a pact with the Centre to ensure electricity in all UP villages by 2019.    A meeting of the state cabinet chaired by Adityanath, the second since he assumed office last month, also decided that district headquarters will get 24-hour power supply, Power Minister Shrikant Sharma told reporters after the three-hour-long meeting.    Notably, the chief minister directed the power department to ensure that defective or burnt transformers are replaced expeditiously in rural areas so that agricultural operations do not suffer.