JAIPUR: Protests against Sanjay Leela Bhasali’s ‘Padmavati’ were reported from   and Ajmer on Monday even as day-long talks over the title of the film ended with Rajput outfits agreeing to retract their demand of changing the name of the production. 

 “The filmmakers told us that due to legal and operational issues, the name of the movie can’t be changed at this stage, (and) we agreed to that. The producers of ‘Jodha Akbar’ had also expressed their inability to change the title due to the same reason,” said   chief Lokendra Singh Kalvi, adding that Bhansali was now welcome to shoot the film. 
 
 Kalvi also said that his ‘suggestion’, that the movie is shown to them before release, is still under consideration. “We had demanded that objectionable romantic scene between Rani Padmavati and Allauddin Khilji should be removed. We’re thankful that Bhansali productions agreed in writing to this crucial demand.” 
 
 He said Karni Sena would move the Union information & broadcasting ministry with a draft, seeking a screening committee for all films portraying historical figures. “A committee comprising journalists, judges and historians shall review the movie even before it is made so that regional sentiments of communities are not hurt. We will seek Bhansali’s support in getting this draft passed,” he said. 
 
 Kalvi said Bhansali’s representative gave an undertaking that no objectionable scenes would be filmed. “Everyone knows the bonding between Deepika Padukone and Ranveer Singh. They are also playing the characters of Padmani and Khilji. We told filmmakers that their personal rapport should not be reflected in the film,” Kalvi said. 
 
 “We are confident that Rajasthan will be proud of the movie made on the queen of Chittor. Let me reiterate, there’s no romantic scene between the queen and Khilji,” Bhansali Productions CEO Shobha Sant told reporters. 
 
 Meanwhile, Vishva Hindu Parishad (VHP) burnt Bhansali’s effigy and threatened of dire consequences if the history of Rajasthan was distorted.
 
