BENGALURU: Taking the   party by surprise on Saturday, former Karnataka chief minister and the party's senior most leader SM Krishna, 84, decided to retire from politics and not to renew his primary membership in Congress party.

 Krishna is said to have written a letter in this regard to Congress president Sonia Gandhi and is scheduled to disclose the details of his decision at a news conference in Bengaluru on Sunday. He declined to speak to the media on Saturday.
 
 Speculation is rife that Krishna is likely to meet PM Narendra Modi on February 6. The vice-president's post falls vacant this year with incumbent Hamid Ansari's second term ending in August.
 
 As soon as the news broke, KPCC president G Parameshwara and energy minister DK Shivakumar, Krishna's confidants during his tenure as CM, rushed to his residence in Sadashivnagar. However, they had to wait as Krishna was away at a function at Bangalore Palace. 
 
 Curiously, the former CM did not attend the Jana Vedana programme organised by the KPCC against demonetisation at the same venue earlier in the day.
 
 It's learnt that Krishna is miffed over the way he has been marginalised in the party in recent years. After steering the Congress to a victory in 1999, he helmed the state as chief minister from 1999 to 2004. He is credited with putting Bengaluru on the global map.
 
 When he came out of polit ical hibernation and campaigned for the party in the 2013 assembly polls, Krishna said: “People have often called me as the hi-tech CM. What is wrong in being hitech? Don't we all use the telephone and electricity?“ Congress insiders say Krishna's exit from active politics will not cause any problems for the party . “No doubt he gave the party a legup from 1999, but as a politician, he has not experienced the rough and tumble of politics,“ they added.
 
 KPCC working president Dinesh Gundu Rao said, “Krishna's hallmark is the grace and dignity with which he conducts himself. We have a lot to learn from him." Krishna was given a gubernatorial post when the Congress failed to get a majority in 2004 and formed the government with the JD(S). He was made governor of Maharashtra.
 
 However, he return ed to active politics in 2008, got elected to the Rajya Sabha, and became a minister in the   government. In 2012, two days before a Union cabinet reshuffle, Krishna put in his papers and returned to Karnataka. He went into a shell but reappeared during the 2013 polls to campaign in Ben galuru which has a substantial Vokkaliga population.
 
 However, it was no secret that Krishna had political ambitions even after he returned from the national scene. With no responsibility coming his way, Krishna slowly started withdrawing from party engagements.
 
