GURUGRAM: A lawyer’s father, uncle and cousin were among five people who were gunned down in  , a small village located off   Road in Faridabad, on Sunday night by a mob armed to the teeth and led, allegedly, by the husband of Dayawati, the sarpanch. 

 As anger threatened to boil over and the village remained on a knife edge, police have made 21 arrests over the last 48 hours. On Tuesday, the cops secured two-day custody of 11 people and four-day remand of four. The six others arrested, all women, were sent on judicial custody. The prime accused, Dayawati’s husband Virender alias  , has been hospitalised, purportedly for injuries he received. His brother Kamal Kishore (Leelu), who is said to have fired most shots, has been arrested. 
 
  Shri Chand (60), Rajender Prasad (55), Ishwar Chand (28), Naveen (29) and Pintu (32) were   dead while eight others suffered severe injuries in the attack by a mob of around 25 people. Police said a case was registered under various IPC sections, including 302 (murder), and relevant sections of the Arms Act. 
 
 In a complaint filed in Kheri Pul police station, lawyer Lalit   said he went out with his father, Rajendra Prasad, and cousin Ishwar after he heard commotion on the street. He claimed around 25 people, including Billu, were standing there with pistols, revolvers, sticks and iron rods. He said the men assaulted his family members and fired at them after abusing his uncle Shri Chand. 
 
 Pintu was shot when he tried to calm down Billu and Leelu. Another villager, Naveen, had come to the spot just to check what was happening when he was shot. A villager who didn’t want to be named said Billu and his aides ensured that we didn’t rush the injured to hospital by blocking the way for around 10-15 minutes.
 
 Gaur alleged his father, who owned a shop in the area, and relatives were murdered over a grouse that the sarpanch and her family held against them after they didn’t help Billu in the election held last year. The sarpanch won the election by a wafer-thin margin of eight votes. 
 
 Earlier on Sunday, that morning, the younger members of Prasad’s and Billu’s families had got into a scuffle. Gaur’s cousin Manish was on his way to give food to his brother Harish who was admitted to a hospital in the area when sarpanch’s son along with three-four people almost rammed their car into him. An argument broke out. “Manish told them they should drive carefully. When the men in the car started abusing him, Manish left for the hospital,” Gaur claimed, alleging they had planned this in advance.
 
 Pintu’s brother Manoj alleged they were threatened by Subhash, another brother of Billu, when he tried to help those who were shot. “They shot Dev bhai (Pintu) from a close range,” he said. 
 
 Additional SHO Badan Singh of Kheri Pul police station said police conducted several raids to arrest the accused. Around seven people are yet to be arrested, he said. Faridabad police commissioner Hanif Qureshi said security had been provided to Lalit and cops were deployed in the village. He also said the assailants appeared to have used licensed weapons.
 
