PANAJI: Eyeing a slender chance at breaking the BJP’s hold over Goa, senior functionaries of the All India Congress Committee (AICC) arrived in the state on Friday, ahead of the declaration of the assembly election results. Despite the brave face put up by the state Congress leadership, party insiders accept that they face an uphill task if they want to form the next government.

 Senior members, including AICC general secretary Digvijaya Singh, Goa poll screening committee chief KC Venugopal, and AICC secretary A Chellakumar, have arrived in the state for the poll results.
 
 Chellakumar and Singh are expected to play a key role in closed-door negotiations with “like-minded parties” and independents who could help Congress muster the required numbers to form the government. Political observers say Chellakumar has already reached out to several independent candidates.
 
 While the state Congress unit has stood by its stand that it would win 23-25 constituencies in the state assembly election, Congress workers agree that the party’s tally in the polls will range between 15 and 18 seats. They accept that due to the lack of the required numbers, the party will have no option but to seek out allies.
 
 “We have our strategies in place based on the different scenarios. It will depend on the common minimum programme that we arrive at, but we are already in talks with the people concerned,” a party member said.
 
 In Goa’s 40-seat assembly, any party that steps forward to form the government will have to garner the support of at least 21 MLAs. Following the exit polls, party insiders say the Congress has come around to accept that winning more than 18 constituencies on its own strength looks unlikely. “The NCP and the Congress have been natural allies,” a party member said when asked if the Congress would seek the support of the Nationalist  , if they win any seat.
 
 While the party claims to be open to an alliance with the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party, MGP leader Pandurang 'Deepak’ Dhavalikar has indicated that his party is inclined to the BJP.
 
