NAGPUR: The real domination of Nagpur shuttlers in Maharashtra started at Nashik when they created a history by sweeping both the team titles last year. That twin titles helped Nagpur district to come out of the shadow of traditional powerhouse Mumbai, Pune and Thane.

 Nagpur district had surprised formidable Pune 3-2 in both the finals of U-17 and U-19 team events at Nashik. With a balanced side, Nagpur won the mixed team format for the first time.
 
 Post-Nashik, Nagpur teenagers have been dominating the state and national tournaments. The city shuttlers are hoping to carry on the splendid form in the Goel Ganga Maharashtra Junior State Inter-District Badminton Championship which, will get underway at the Divisional Sports Complex, Mankapur, here on Monday.
 
 The six-day long tournament will be organized by the   under the auspices of  .
 
 Nagpur have a bye in the U-17 first round and will play the winner of Raigad and Latur in the second round at 3pm on Monday. In the semifinal, the hosts are likely to face Thane or Nashik.
 
 In the bottom half, Pune look a formidable force. The last year's runners-up will have to overcome Mumbai Suburban for a spot in the final.
 
 In the U-19 category too, Nagpur and Pune are likely to battle in the summit clash on Tuesday evening.
 
 The city shuttlers would most likely to meet Mumbai Suburban in the semis. In the bottom half, Pune will have to take on Thane in the penultimate round.
 
 "We have strong teams in both U-17 and U-19 events. Looking at the experience and current form of our players, I am confident Nagpur district will excel in both the events," said Kiran Makode.
 
 The experienced Nagpur district coach is satisfied with the week-long preparatory camp held at the  . He is very much optimistic about Nagpur's chances.
 
 "Camp was good as all the players came together as one unit. I could try out different combinations of doubles and mixed doubles as our main players are common in both the events. All the players are fit and eager to give their best," added Makode.
 
 Thane coach Mayur Ghatnekar too admitted that Nagpur and Pune are the best of the lot. "According to me Nagpur and Pune are the title favourites as both the districts have a balanced team. But Nagpur has the advantage of having the best girls players in the entire state and girls will be featuring in three of the five matches," said Ghatnekar. 
 
 Guardian minister   will inaugurate the six-day tourney at 9.30 am on Monday, while MBA president Arun Lakhani will preside over the function.   president Kunda Vijaykar, secretary  , joint secretary Naresh Chafekar and other NDBA officials will be present on the occasion.
 
 
 
 
 
 Rohan Gurbani, Sudhanshu Bhure, Jaskaran Suri, Nabeel Ahmed, Sifat Arora, Malvika Bansod, Ritika Thaker, Devika Kawle, Pavitra Somani, Arya Anchalwar.
 
 
 Rohan Gurbani, Sudhanshu Bhure, Sourabh Kerhalkar, Gaurav Mithe, Hriday Deshmukh, Malvika Bansod, Ritika Thaker, Rashi Lambe, Pavitra Somani, Shruti Chokhandare.
 
 
  631
 
  518
 
  99
 
  14
 
 399
 
 25.
 
