NOIDA-GREATER NOIDA:   will soon get a share of windmill energy generated in the state following an agreement signed by   and the central government on Thursday (May 4) in the presence of Union power minister  . Under the agreement, Uttar Pradesh has been allocated 450MW of windmill energy for 25 years at the rate of Rs 3.46 per unit through an agreement signed by Abhishek Prakash, MD, PVVNL. on behalf of UPPCL, at the energy ministers' meeting in New Delhi.

 While Noida stands to benefit from the agreement and will be given a share of the 450MW windmill energy, an additional 10MW windmill energy will be given to Greater Noida under the pact through Noida Power Company Limited (NPCL), which provides power to Greater Noida.
 
 “A power purchase agreement (PPA) of 1,000MW was signed on Thursday with Power Trading Corporation (PTC) for wind power plants to be commissioned by private developers at the rate of Rs 3.46 per unit fixed for 25 years. The rates were determined in bids called by Solar Energy Corporation of India (SECI), a Union government enterprise. Out of this, 450MW of wind power is allocated to UP,” said Rajiv Goyal, general manager operations, NPCL.According to Goyal, the wind power generated has been allocated to various states by the central government to fulfil targets of   procurement at rates lower than commercial power.
 
 “The agreement of 450MW windmill energy for UP for 25 years, which was signed at Piyush Goyal’s conference attended by all states’ energy ministers and power officials in New Delhi on Thursday is to be implemented with immediate effect,” said Mukul Singhal, superintending engineer, PVVNL Noida.
 
 According to Singhal, while Noida and Greater Noida residents are vocal about environment protection, “the said agreement of wind power generated in West/South India and transmitted to NCR region at lowest prices, would reduce coal-based generation in NCR states and as a result help provide clean air to the region,” Singhal said, adding that the meeting also discussed means to improve supply to states, methods to rationalise tariffs and reduce problems for consumers as well as regulate line losses and thefts. “The basic premise of the meeting was how to achieve the target of ‘power for all, at economical prices’,” Singhal said.
 
 
