Chennai: When a soldier at war puts himself in harm’s way, it matters little if falls to an enemy bullet or dies in an accident. It is death in the line of fire.

 The Chennai bench of the   has recommended that the Union ministry of defence modify pension regulations for the   as it contains no clear distinction between accidents occurring the in the course of duty during general/peace time and those that take place in operational and war-like areas.
 
 In doing so, it awarded enhanced liberalised disability pension to M Sampath, a veteran of the Indo-Pak War of 1965, who lost a leg to amputation on operational duty.
 
 Sampath informed the tribunal that he was 21 years old and a dispatch runner during the war. Riding a motorcycle, Sampath was at the vanguard of his unit’s military convoy on ‘Operation Riddle’, when a military vehicle collided with his motorcycle around 150 km from the border near Ludhiana on December 17, 1965. Doctors had to amputate his left leg.
 
 Boarded out of service in April, 1967, military doctors at the time assessed his disability during discharge at 60%. Officials later broadbanded this figure to 75%. When the Army awarded Sampath ordinary physical casualty pension, he moved the tribunal seeking that it direct the Army to give him battle casualty pension.
 
 The Army said in Sampath’s case there was clear distinction between battle injury and battle casualty. As Sampath sustained injuries while on operational duty and not in action against enemy, according to the rules, he was not entitled to battle casualty pension.
 
 A bench of judicial member Justice S Satheesachandran and administrative member Lt Gen L Surendra Nath said an Army special order defined the difference between battle casualty, air raid casualty and battle accident. As opposed to battle casualty, battle accidents were the accidents that occurred during an army operation, not in a confrontation with the enemy. So Sampath could not be provided battle casualty benefits.
 
 Sampath, now 72, however, argued that the Army provided him with pension similar to the amount it paid for ordinary physical casualty. This was because the disability pension benefits did not clearly distinguish between a battle accident and physical casualty on duty.
 
 “Though the regulations specify unintentional killing by our own troops [friendly fire] during duty in operational areas, we are satisfied it also covers disabilities sustained because of unintentional accidents,” the bench said, adding that the word “killing” had to be given a wider meaning to include wounds caused unintentionally.
 
 As Sampath was in the disability category, he had to be provided liberalised disability pension and not ordinary disability pension, the bench said.
 
 
