NAGPUR: More than 200 people attended an event organized by   and Kamgar Bhushan Sangathana (GKKBS) to honour   to mark his appointment as the   recently. 

 The programme organized at Vidarbha Sahitya Sammelan, Sitabuldi, saw Dr Ved Prakash Mishra, chancellor, Krishna Institute of Medical Science, social activist Umesh Choubey and former Kamgar minister Haribhau Naik attend the programme as chief guests. 
 
 Pradeep Khanorkar, president, GKKBS, said, “We are so happy that people from Nagpur are achieving so much in life and attaining new heights. 
 
 “The appointment is a huge feat for the citizens of Nagpur and we are very proud of him. Dabhade achieved the position with his hard work and determination, accompanied with a passion to work for the society.”
 
 Mishra also praised Dabhade’s hard work which led him to achieve so much success. 
 
 “Dabhade is a gem of our city who has always been enlightening the people with his hard work. We are honoured to have him among us and this event marks his achievement. Most people wish to live a great and legendary life, but only a handful dare to live one. Dabhade is one such figure, who did not give up despite the difficult circumstances that came his way. We hope that the state flourishes under his reign.”
 
 Choubey also spoke highly of Dabhade and his achievements. “Men and women from Nagpur are bring laurels to the city and Dabhade is one of them. He has proved that with his hard work and determination, one can achieve anything in life. 
 
 “All one needs is a little faith and hope. His appointment will surely be remembered by all as one the best times in the history of our city and state. This event is our small token of appreciation for his contribution to the city and our faith for a better tomorrow has been instilled with this appointment.”
 
 Dabhade was presented with a shawl, shrifal and a memento on the occasion by the chief guests and members of GKKBS. 
 
 “We are so happy and proud for Dabhade and our aspirations to see the city and the state prosper is coming true,” he said.
 
 Dabhade has been given a very important position of state welfare commissioner and our entire organization is very excited about the same.”
 
