JAIPUR: In the recently held  , 27 people were arrested and 200 camels, which were to be smuggled out of the state, have been rescued from them. This validates the fact that animal fares have become venue for illegal trade. In a story titled, “13 camels being smuggled from Barmer rescued,” on January 29, 2017, TOI had highlighted the increasing number of camels being smuggled from fairs organised all over the state. 

 Now on February 5, 2017, an FIR was lodged in Nagaur under the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960 against 18 people from Uttar Pradesh, eight from Bharatpur and one from Alwar for trying to smuggle 200 camels. Generally, these camels are sold within the price range of Rs 70,000 to Rs 1 lakh .
 
 “We were informed about the camels in Nagaur Cattle Fair. But when we reached there, smugglers had escaped leaving camels. We chased them and brought back. Each truck had 25-30 camels huddled in it. They were arrested under Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960. Seven to eight people had previous criminal record of same offence,” said Paris Deshmukh, SP, Nagaur.
 
 According to Deshmukh, none of them had a purchase receipt or permission for transportation from the  . They were given enough opportunity to prove that they possessed land, but they were all traders. Later, they were released on bail.
 
 The Rajasthan   (Prohibition of Slaughter and Regulation of Temporary Migration or Export) Act, 2015, came into effect in 2016. The act which was supposed to provide protection to animal like cow with seven years of jail term for slaughtering camel, and three years for smuggling it across state, has been absolutely ineffectual, with hundreds of camels being smuggled every month for slaughtering.
 
 “These camels are sold during cattle fairs in Rajasthan, largely to people coming from Baghpat, UP. However, as per the government rule, camels could only be sold to farmers for agricultural purpose. The rampant smuggling of camels has led to a huge decline in their population and the government is doling out funds to breed camels. It is a serious issue which requires strict action and vigilance to stop,” said Radhika Bose from the NGO, People for Animals. Over the past year, we have saved more than 1,000 camels from being trafficked from Malda & Islampur in West Bengal, Kishanganj in Bihar, Kotputli in Rajasthan and Gurgaon in Haryana.
 
 “Equally gruesome is the way these camels are transported. Sharp knives and blades attached to the ends of bamboo sticks are used to load the camels forcefully into trucks. Their legs are tied and shoved on top of each other. The journey from Rajasthan to any of these places takes close to 40 hours in the truck without food and water,” said Nikita Anand, a volunteer at   which works towards rescuing these camels. However, a committee has been constituted under the district magistrate to figure out what to do with the camels.
 
