INDORE: Loyal customers in the region of different   of State Bank of India (SBI), who are accustomed to   and bound by the trust factor, may shift their loyalties to other regional banks, resulting in a drop in customers once the  .

 The green signal by the cabinet to merge five subsidiary banks with SBI may see a drop in customers, mainly  , who might switch their accounts to other regional banks for  .
 
 Sudhir Pandathil, a savings account holder at State Bank of Travancore, said, “My grandfather had an account in this bank. We are loyal customers of this bank and we get very good and quick service without wasting much time unlike in other big banks. I am now planning to move to another bank.”
 
 Customers of the associate banks said that regional banks give them a feel of comfort, trust and hassle-free operations which will not be possible in any larger sector bank.
 
 A banker from State Bank of Travancore said, “Regional customers are more attached to our bank than the main SBI. We apprehend that few customers might move to other banks but we are trying our best to make them realise that the exposure and network will expand after the merger, which will be an advantage for them.”
 
 Five associate banks of SBI, namely State Bank of Bikaner & Jaipur, State Bank of Patiala, State Bank of Mysore, State Bank of Hyderabad and State Bank of Travancore, will be merged with SBI in the fiscal year 2018.
 
 Puneet Maloo, a savings account holder with State Bank of Bikaner & Jaipur, said, “I visited my bank for some clarity on the issue as I am worried about my daily transactions. The initial few years will be difficult as banking pattern and atmosphere will change.”
 
 Bankers of associate banks said that the main concern with customers is service. They are trying to convince customers that after the merger, regional bank lending rates will be at par with SBI and its presence will increase even in remote areas.
 
 A banker from State Bank of Hyderabad said, “It’s a policy matter and we have to obey this. Many of us may get transferred but we are hoping that the change is meant for the better.”
 
 Bank unions have been strongly opposing the merger of associate banks with SBI and have staged multiple strikes and protests since the proposal was floated in May last year.
 
 MK Shukla, convener, United Forum of Bank Unions said, “This decision is not in favour of customers or the staff. Several branches will be closed and employees may be forced to resign.”
 
