AHMEDABAD: The Supreme Court on Friday sought reply from   government on an appeal questioning one-year extension in service of encounter specialist cops – N K Amin and Tarun Barot – post-retirement.

 Former IPS officer Rahul Sharma has taken exception to re-employment of these two charge-sheeted cops and sought immediate removal of them from the office. A bench headed by the Chief Justice J S Khehar issued notice and sought reply from the state government within two weeks.
 
 Sharma, who now practices law after leaving police service, had filed a PIL before Gujarat high court last year after the government took a decision to extend Amin’s service and re-employ Barot after he got bail in the   encounter case, a couple of years after his retirement. Amin is posted as superintendent of   district and Barot is appointed as DySP with the western railway at Vadodara.
 
 Earlier this year, the HC dismissed the PIL on the ground that a public interest litigation is not maintainable in service matter. The HC had further observed that the state government has got powers to appoint retired cops on contract. “We are convinced that power is conferred on the State to make appointments of 2nd and 3rd respondents (Amin and Barot) on contractual basis, it cannot be said that such appointments are either without authority of law or contrary to any of the statutory provisions,” the HC order said.
 
 Sharma objected to the reappointment on the ground that both the cops are tainted and facing murder charges in the Ishrat Jahan fake encounter case. Looking at the service records, their services cannot be extended in public interest, he argued
 
 The state government countered Sharma’s argument by claiming that it is a service matter and the decision was taken as per provisions of the Bombay Police Act. It praised the officers for eliminating terrorists and for their “outstanding performance” on the basis of their confidential reports of last 10 years. The government dubbed Sharma as “biased” against the state administration for departmental proceedings against him.
 
