Ludhiana: A local court sentenced a father son duo to 10-year rigorous imprisonment on charges of culpable homicide not amounting to murder. They killed their domestic help after they came to know that the son’s wife had an affair with him. The court of additional sessions judge Virinder Aggarwal also imposed a fine of Rs 27,000 on the convicts. They will undergo rigorous imprisonment of an additional eight months in default of payment of fine. 

 On January 15, 2010, Payal police booked 67-year-old Jagtar Singh Kaka of Nizampur village in Payal and his son Jagminder Singh, 38, for the murder of their servant Pappu for allegedly having illicit relations with Jagminder’s wife. During investigation, police also named 68-year-old Rajinder Singh of Khattra Chuharam, Dehlon in the case. 
 
 In his police complaint, Ram Singh on December 1, 2009, who worked as domestic help with a neighbour of the accused, said he heard cries from the house of the accused. He said he looked over the wall and saw Jagtar and Jagminder beating up Pappu and the daughter-in-law with an iron rod. He said the daughter-in-law managed to escape. The complainant said the accused continued thrashing Pappu and when (Ram Singh), raised an alarm, they put him in a vehicle and drove away. Police registered a case and arrested the accused. They later presented a challan against the accused in court.
 
 The court observed that the accused lost self-control on seeing Jagminder Singh’s wife in a compromising position with their domestic help Pappu and brutally beat them up. The court also observed that they disposed of Pappu’s body to cause disappearance of evidence.
 
 The court observed that the offence falls within the ambit of part One of 304 IPC and not under section 302 of IPC. Convicts made a prayer for leniency in the name of various circumstances attending upon them and their responsibility towards the family. Additional public prosecutor for state S S Haidar argued that the accused have committed a heinous offence and don’t deserve any leniency and prayed for maximum punishment.
 
 
