KOLHAPUR: Highrise building developers are unable to sell the flats as the   (KMC) is reluctant to issue occupancy certificates to them. 

 The developers have written to the municipal commissioner P Siva Sankar stating that the occupancy certificates should be granted to three highrise buildings as they are facing difficulties to process sale deeds with their customers. The KMC has withheld the proposals for no objection certificates ( ) in view of the fire safety concerns in these buildings.
 
 The fire department has claimed that the developers do not have any measures or the required machinery with them to stop fires in the highrise structures. Owing to the lack of the NOCs concerning fire safety, the developers are unable to process their proposals for occupancy certificates.
 
 However, the KMC has assured that the occupancy certificates for flats till the level of 11 floors or 24 meters only will be granted. The total height of the highrise buildings are around 35 meters.
 
 Sankar said, “We have sought the town planning authorities’ opinion regarding the issuance of the NOC. The proposal to procure funds for the turntable ladder from the state government has been tabled. The government is yet to take a decision on the same.” “Also, our proposal to raise funds for procuring the ladder by increasing the fire service charges has been rejected,” he added.
 
 The KMC has decided to procure one of these 45-meter long vehicle-mounted ladders. It would cost around Rs 8 crore in total. Sankar is hopeful that the government will grant at least 50% of the total expenditure. The developers claim that owing to such restrictions, many proposals for highrises will not be cleared. The developers have said as per the new rules, the ‘refuge area’ on the 11th floor can act as the emergency exit during fire. 
 
 Mahesh Yadav, president of Confederation of   Developers’ Associations of India (CREDAI) said, “When there is provision of the refuge area, where the evacuation can be carried out, the KMC should issue NOC for obtaining the  . The sale deeds of the most of the units have been stalled and many future projects are likely to be hampered.”
 
 Yadav claims there is no need to increase fire service charges. The KMC rakes over Rs 8 crore through the fire capitation fees every year and it was possible to buy the fire machineries. However, the KMC spent the money to pay the salaries of its employees. We have taken up the issue with chief minister Devendra Fadnavis.
 
