CHANDIGARH: It’s been a battle on all flanks for   president Captain Amarinder Singh, who had to break up infighting as well as take on his first three-cornered contest in the state. In a battle that he described as his last stand, Amarinder — who turned 75 on Saturday — made the point that he’s ‘Punjab Da Captain’, as his campaign managers hailed him.

 After the 2012 debacle, Amarinder, scion of the erstwhile Patiala royal state, was replaced as Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) chief, and reduced to representing Patiala and head of the All-India Jat Mahasabha. He promptly launched a tirade against the new state chief, Partap Singh Bajwa, who, he said, was incapable of leading Congress to victory.
 
 Though he’d always preferred state politics to central, the Congress leadership pushed him into the Lok Sabha polls. A reluctant Amarinder had little choice when Congress president Sonia Gandhi asked him to contest in Amritsar against BJP’s Arun Jaitley. Amarinder successfully turned it into an ‘insider versus outsider’ debate, and was named deputy leader of the party in Lok Sabha.
 
 Despite the win, he chose to focus on Punjab, and pushed the envelope to unseat Bajwa, who shared a good equation with party vice-president Rahul Gandhi. Reports did the rounds of Amarinder planning to leave the Congress and start his own party. In November 2015, with 35-odd Congress MLAs on his side, Amarinder virtually arm-twisted Congress into bringing him back to the helm. By then, AAP, which had made a mark by winning four Lok Sabha seats the year before, was witnessing a surge in popularity. Amarinder and his team had their work cut out for them.
 
 As he embarked on his eight-month campaign, Amarinder, a popular Jat leader and a former chief minister, had told TOI that this was his last chance to redeem himself. “I am absolutely determined to work hard and pull this election off. I want to go out with a win and not a defeat,” he said.
 
 In contrast to his 2012 campaign, this time he held events in almost every constituency. “It began in April 2016 with ‘Coffee with Captain’ events for youth and ‘Halke Vich Captain’ in suburban areas for party workers. He campaigned in every part of the state and held over 40 rallies in the last few days,” said a member of the party’s campaign committee.
 
 
