Nagpur: While Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) is busy making big claims to make Nagpur a smart city, one of the most developed area in city is reeling under severe sewage problem. There are no sewage trunk line in Hazaripahad due to which the residents of the area are facing various health hazards. All the townships in the area has old and outdated septic tank system leading to open sewage lines which pose major health and hygiene risk to the citizens. 

 “There are no sewage trunk in Hazaripahad area to dispose sewage, they have sewage tanks. However, in the upcoming budget we are trying to propose a sewage line in the area. We will also evaluate that, are all the township handed over to the NMC,” said assistant commissioner NMC Dharampeth zone Mahesh Morone. 
 
 Saroj Nagar colony in Hazaripahad is not been provided with the basic amenities by NMC as builder Sandeep Deshmukh of Aryaman Builders has not handed over the possession to the civic body. The sewage water from the society is deposited in the septic tank and later released outside, but since there is no sewage line the waste is gathered behind the society. The well water, which is used by residents of the colony, is also getting contaminated due to the open sewage. “We did everything within our reach to stop contamination but it is NMC’s duty to build a sewage line for society, the whole area stinks as the sewage water is not disposed properly,” said president of the saroj Nagar society, VP Chabra.
 
 The society is regularly paying taxes since 2007 but no amenities have been provided to the residents by NMC. “We are paying double money for the same work. We have to call private workers as NMC do not provide any sort of help in our area. We bear all the expenses of the colony, we even to pay electricity bills of street lights installed in our area,” said Pashupati Prasad resident of the colony adding that many assurances have been given by NMC and corporators of the area but no actions has been taken so far.
 
 The residents claims that in rainy season the sewage water flows through the society. “We just want three basic need for our colony that is sewage disposal, electricity and roads,” said Vyankat Raman resident of the society. “All the difficulties which we are facing is due to poor planning of the NMC. The DP road from Dhaba to Friends colony which is sanctioned years ago should be constructed so that the civic body makes proper planning for sewage disposal,” suggested another resident of the society, Krishna Kumar.
 
 
