SURAT: Two more persons have died after   on Wednesday, taking the death toll in the   to four in the last three days. Police have confirmed that all the four died after consuming spurious   with heavy dose of methanol. A woman bootlegger from Katargam, who is believed to have supplied the spurious alcohol, has been detained, said police sources.

 Prakash Thakore and Ashok Waghela died on Wednesday, while Pradip Vaid, Kirtisinh Waghela died on Sunday. All four are resident of Katargam area in the city.
 
 Meanwhile, Surat police carried out around 1,660 raids across the city and arrested 23 bootleggers in the past three days, keeping the focus on Katargam area from where four hooch deaths have been confirmed. Police sources said the bootleggers and suppliers of country liquor were arrested from different parts of the city including Katargam. 
 
 Sources said that the police has also picked up a lady bootlegger from Katargam’s Gotalawadi, who is believed to have served the spurious liquor. 
 
 Cases under section 65(A) and 66 (1) B of the Prohibition Act and Indian Penal Code (IPC) section 304 were registered on Tuesday in connection with the deaths reported due to the consumption of spurious liquor.
 
 So far, police has registered 35 cases under the Prohibition Act Sections 65(A),(B),(C),(D),(F), and 66(1) (B) against the bootleggers. This is the second time Surat police have used the Bombay Prohibition (Gujarat Amendment) Act, which entails death penalty or life imprisonment on conviction of the accused if found guilty of the offence.
 
 Police Commissioner Satish Sharma has ordered all the police stations under his jurisdiction to check the private and government hospitals for patients showing symptoms similar to that after consumption of spurious liquor. 
 
 Apart from this, the police commissioner has handed over the investigation into the incident to the city crime branch.
 
 Talking to TOI, Police Commissioner Satish Sharma said, “Around 200 policemen and officers have been raiding various spots in Katargam area from where four confirmed deaths of spurious liquor consumption have been reported. We have seized huge amount of country liquor as well as foreign liquor from the possession of the bootleggers arrested in the last three days.”
 
 Sharma added, “Samples of the country-made liquor seized by the raiding teams have been sent to FLS for investigating the presence of methanol. More arrests are likely to be made in the next few days as our teams are continuously raiding the liquor spots.”
 
 According to Sharma, such cases cannot be avoided entirely, but there is no control of the police on the supply of methanol in the industrial areas of the city. It is very difficult to keep tab on the tankers carrying methanol. Police can act only on the information provided by the sources and the eyewitnesses. 
 
 Sharma added, “We have come across two cases from the city where two persons took ill after consuming liquor, which they had brought from Rajasthan and Mumbai.”
 
 “We are also monitoring two more suspected cases. One person is admitted in the SMIMER hospital. His condition is critical, while the other person is undergoing treatment at Palanpur in Banaskantha. We are tracking all those persons who have gone to Palanpur and Banaskantha with the help of the local police there.”
 
 According to Dr Vinesh Shah, forensic science and toxicology expert, country-liquor becomes dangerous when mixed with methyl alcohol, which when consumed, is rapidly absorbed by the stomach and converted into formaldehyde, which is 33 times more dangerous than methyl alcohol. 
 
 In September last year more than 21 people had died in the hooch tragedy detected from the Vareli village on the outskirts of the city. The Anti-Terrorist Squad (ATS), which probed the Vareli hooch tragedy, found that the spurious liquor sold by the bootleggers was made of poisonous methanol. 
 
 
