Despite the hullabaloo against Chinese products by right-wing activists, it seems even they can't resist the lure of buying Diwali lights made in China, especially the   light.One of the hottest sellers in the Diwali and   market in the city, the Modi light is basically an illuminated plastic lotus. And ironically , this brainchild of some Chinese light-maker is selling like hot cakes among   and   cadres and supporters. So much for their `Make in India' campaign and call to boycott Chinese goods! “Ahead of the last Assembly elections, there was a big demand for lights that resembled party symbols. The lot us light was closest to the BJP's symbol, so we named it Modi light and stocked up on it. The lig hts were sold out overnight. We ordered the lights for Diwali too, and we've been proven right. These lights are still in great demand,“ said Ramjan Ali, a vendor at Chandni Market, who alone has sold more than 250 Modi lights in the past few days, not to mention the other vendors.Ramjan said the lights, which sell for `100-150 apiece, are primarily being bought by BJP and ABVP workers.
We spoke to an active ABVP supporter at Jadavpur University , who has bought 50 such lamps. “This is the symbol of   and I truly believe that India will reach its zenith if we stick with him,“ he said. He, however, seemed completely unaware of the fact that these lights were made in China when we asked him about the call to boycott goods from that country . “It's one of the most practical boycott calls in recent times,“ he added.
 
 ABVP state secretary Subir Halder echoed the sentiment. “Modi is now an international figure and it's common for people to celebrate a personality of this magnitude. So, it's no surprise that these lights have become so popular.“ So, what happened to the “no Chinese products“ stand?
 According to the sellers people don't really care if a product is Chinese or Indian; they just want it cheap. Moreover, it's close to impossible to avoid Chinese products, which have flooded markets -right from cheap toys to expensive electronic gadgets. “You can choose not to buy cheap Chinese prod ucts, but what do you do when buying a branded mobile phone or a computer? Almost all of these products are either partially or fully made by Chinese manufacturers,“ said Sultan Ahmed, a lights vendor at the Ezra Street Market.
 
 Then there are the quality and price factors. Most vendors agreed that Indian products cannot compete with Chinese ones when it comes to quality and price.
 “The quality and finish of Chinese products far exceed that of Indian ones, and on top of that, the price is usually much lower. So, it's obvious that these products are popular among vendors and buyers alike. Indian manufacturers have to match up to these standards first before Chinese products can be truly boycotted,“ said another vendor at the Ezra Street market, which like Chandni market and other commercial areas of the city , is flooded with Chinese lights. We tried really hard but couldn't find a single string of lights that's truly made in India.
 
 So much for the boycott call.
 
