The understanding between the   ( ) and the the Federation of Cine Technicians & Workers of Eastern India has hit a new low, with the former calling for a token strike on July 25 in protest against the latter’s strong-arm tactics. The current stand-off began on June 22, when 19 technicians affiliated to the Federation packed up and flew back home, putting a spanner on the London shoot of the Subhashree and Shakib-starrer, Chalbaaz. The reason: the Federation was displeased with the way some technicians were flown in late for the shoot. Then, the Dhanukas — Himangshu and Ashok, the film’s producers — were banned from employing Federation members.
According to Himangshu, it’s a Federation rule that a film unit has to take on board 19 of its members while shooting overseas. “Though the MoU regarding this rule expired in 2015, we still abide by it. But while shooting in London, we could take along 14 technicians and five more joined us later in two batches, bringing the total to 19. The delay happened because of visa issues, so there was nothing we could do. But nowhere, be it Mumbai or the south, is there a rule that makes it mandatory for a film unit to take along local technicians. The producer spends the money, but the Federation decides how many technicians he should take on board. What kind of logic is that? No one can deprive a person of the right to work and no one has the right to stall a shoot. I have incurred losses of around a crore. Who’s going to compensate me?” he added.
 So, in protest against the issue and the subsequent ban on the Dhanukas, EIMPA’s directors’ guild president Ashoke Vishwanathan and producers’ section chairman Krishna Daga called for the strike on Saturday evening. “EIMPA and director’s guild are giving the Federation 10 days to lift the ban and issue proper guidelines to avoid the strike. The intention is to make the Federation see the damage it has been doing to the industry over the years,” a source told us. In keeping with this, CT asked a few from   about whether they will support the strike or not. Most told us they won’t. Why? Well, read on...
 
 
 
 
 The Federation was wrong in stopping the Chalbaaz shoot, so how can EIMPA be right in doing the same thing? I’m against stoppage of work. So, I’m strongly against the July 25 strike. I have a shoot scheduled on that day and a strike could mean losses. There are better ways to deal with problems. Why can’t we sort out the problems by sitting across the table? After all, all of us live off the same industry
 
 
 
 I don’t support the strike. As it is, EIMPA is a regulatory body and the directors’ guild can call a strike with a 21-day notice and that too, only if 50% of its members support it. True, it’s unfortunate that the Federation stopped Chalbaaz’s shooting in UK and so is the fact that it decides how many technicians we need. But I guess EIMPA is making the same mistake. These bodies are there for the industry’s welfare, not to stop work.
 
 
 
 
 I support this strike. No one has the right to stall a film’s shoot. If you have issues, talk it out, or stop the film from releasing, but no one stops the shoot. As it is, the business of filmmaking is going from bad to worse; even more after the introduction of GST. And amidst all this, how can the Federation dictate how many technicians a film unit should have? It should be the director/producer’s call.
 
 
 
 I don’t support this strike. The Federation is for our welfare and a film unit has to abide by its rules. Bengali filmmakers pay 10 times more than those of other regions for the QUBE/UFO projection system. I fail to understand why EIMPA is not addressing this. The Federation supports technicians 
 and producers and only people who bypass the rules get into trouble. So, a strike against it is something I don’t subscribe to.
 
 
 
 I am totally against any kind of strike. What happened in London with Chalbaaz is unacceptable. If anyone breaks a rule, he can be penalised. But stopping a shoot, which involves so much money and time, is just not done. So, if a strike solves an issue, I’ll 
 support it, but if it serves no such purpose, I’m out. True, EIMPA or the Federation have rules, but this is a film industry, not the army. Problems can be solved through discussion.
 
 
 
 I’m not for any strike, as it gives out a wrong vibe. I still feel the issue can be solved across the table and before July 25, both parties should do that. If a strike is the only option left, I’ll support it, but I feel there are more important issues EIMPA should look into — the high rental charges of cinemas, GST issues, the issue of shooting on second Sundays and so on, apart from what the Chalbaaz unit faced in the UK.
 
 
 
