

 Fifteen dogs — 11 Labradors, three Doberman and one Golden Retriever in the squad are getting ready to bask in their moment of glory on January 26. These canines will have the privilege of being the first dog squad to participate in the State’s   parade at the Central Stadium ground in the capital city.
 With SI DK Pushpakumar on command, they will march their way to glory on this R-Day parade at Trivandrum. 
 
 Mathewdensilas Y C, additional-in-charge of dog squad says the special initiative was suggested by State police chief Lokanath Behera.
 “This is for the first time that canines are becoming part of the Republic Day parade in our State. They are an inevitable part of our force and well-trained too. In fact, the Doberman are given special intensive training to track militants and flush out terrorists from dense forests,” he adds.
 
 The dogs along with the handlers have been practicing twice daily for the past one week to get acclimatised to the parade ambience. When the band plays the National Anthem, the dogs have been trained to stand in an attention posture by keeping their forelegs in front and placing their heads on their paws on the ground.
 The Republic Day celebrations will kick-start on January 26 with the Governor P Sathasivam hoisting the flag at 8.30 am. 
 
 City police commissioner G Sparjan Kumar, in charge of the parade, says, “Around 25 platoons, armed and unarmed, will take part in the march past which will be led by Army Commander Ambarish Mahanta with Air Force’s Kunal Sharma as second commander.”
 Meanwhile, in Kottayam too dog squad will be part of the parade.
 
 
 
 To mark the 68th Republic Day of India, the Ernakulam district has decided to go green. The celebrations at the Parade Ground at Civil Station, Kakkanad, will adhere to the Green Protocol and there will be zero non-biodegradable waste.
 
 N B Biju, Assistant Information Officer of the Information and Public Relations Department, Kochi, tells us, “We have been conducting rehearsals for the 36 platoons, who will take part in the parade. Nearly 1,200 participants are being provided snacks and breakfast during the rehearsals. Earlier, we used to give snacks wrapped in plastic covers but this time we have opted for wrapping materials that can be recycled.”
 
 This year, the team is using palm frond plates and steel glasses to serve breakfast and refreshments. “The parade will have 10 floats by different departments and they will also adhere to the Green Protocol this time,” he adds. Finance Minister Thomas Issac will hoist the flag at Ernakulam. 
 
 
 
 
 
 People of Kozhikode are having double celebrations this year. Two days back, the district bagged the championship at the State Youth Festival. And, the Republic Day celebrations will have a special performance by the winners. “We are planning to have a performance by the winners that reflects patriotism. The kids are just back from the youth festival and are busy working on it,” says Prashanth Nair, District Collector.
 The parade ground has also been modified to make it more people friendly. “The arrangements of pavilions are made in such a way that the spectators can watch the parade sitting comfortably under shade. Also, we are quite serious about keeping the celebrations eco-friendly.” Agriculture Minister VS Sunil Kumar will hoist the flag at Vikram Maidan, West Hill.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
