CHANDIGARH: Taking up the issue of huge   of standing counsels appearing before courts on behalf of various departments, the   has asked the Centre, states of Punjab and Haryana, and   to explore whether or not a policy could be framed to find “permanent resolution” of the issue.

 Justice Rajan Gupta has passed the orders while observing that the matter “needs to be answered whether inordinate delay in clearing the bills of the counsel amounts to infringement of right to life and livelihood”.
 
 “A larger question also arises whether in the eventuality, bills are cleared by the government department/public sector undertakings after inordinate delay, appropriate interest/penal interest is required to be paid, whether non-payment of fee bills amounts to infringement of right to life and livelihood, whether in such cases responsibility of the concerned officials is required to be fixed and interest/penal interest is liable to be deducted from the salary of such officials,” Justice Rajan Gupta observed in his orders.
 
 HC has also allowed advocate RS Randhawa, secretary high court bar association, to assist the court on the issues involved in the case. Now, the case has been fixed for August 9 for further hearing.
 
 Justice Gupta has passed the orders after hearing a petition filed by Indu Mehta, wife of a local lawyer, who was a senior standing counsel for the Income Tax Department. Her husband has conducted a number of cases on behalf of the department before he passed away on March 18, 2013. However, payment of most of his bills was not cleared during his lifetime.
 
 A similar petition was also filed by advocate Ranjana Shahi, who has been representing the Union of India, particularly the Department of Central Excise and Customs since 1999. She submitted that her fee bills “running into lakhs of rupees have not been cleared”, too.
 
 In another petition, advocate BS Taunque, who is an ex-Army man and joined the Bar in 1999, alleged that he has been representing Punjab State Power Corporation before this court. However, his bills running into several lakhs have not been cleared till now.
 
 
