PUNE: For over a decade, garbage has been the leveller connecting citizens, corporators and the civic administration with a workable, permanent solution still elusive.

 In the last five years, the general body meeting of   (PMC) has witnessed heated debates where corporators have aggressively taken up the garbage menace while the officials have flaunted the budget expenditure sheet which shows that crores of rupees were spent on processing waste. 
 
 For all this talk, the ground reality has not changed with heaps of stinking garbage scattered all over the city speaking of civic apathy and politicians’ ignorance.
 
 Like every election, garbage is a simmering issue this time too and the blame game has is already cacophonous. The ruling   (NCP) is pointing fingers at the state government, while BJP and other opposition parties are blaming the NCP for ignoring the garbage problem.
 
 Mayor   said the NCP has taken every effort to solve the garbage problem in the last five years. “PMC took up the issue with the state government and sought land to start garbage processing units. We also requested the state to identify abandoned quarries to dump garbage. But there was no response from the state government,” he added.
 
 BJP city unit chief Yogesh Gogawale said a BJP leader and Union minister   had proposed forest land as a landfill site. “The ruling NCP was never serious about tackling garbage. In the last ten years, they have failed to run processing units and the civic body resorts to a huge amount of open dumping,” he said.
 
 Despite political mudslinging, garbage collection and processing remain the biggest headaches for the city. But residents of Kalyaninagar are not interested in this political blame game neither are they complaining. Instead of closing their eyes and covering their noses while going past garbage heaps, citizens here decided to address the issue with open eyes and minds, and change is visible. 
 
 The locality is container-free as door-to-door garbage collection system is working perfectly. Citizens use online portal and WhatsApp groups to communicate with civic officials if the garbage is not lifted. 
 
 There is no open dumping and civic employees contact members of ‘Swachh Kalyaninagar’ group if anyone is found doing so. There is a separate system to collect e-waste and plastic waste. 
 
 ‘Plastic Warriors, Kalyaninagar’ takes care of plastic waste and works with ‘Swachh Kalyaninagar’. Both groups comprise citizens who have joined hands to keep their locality clean. Every single society and school is a part of the campaign. 
 
 “Civic employees, including officials, sweepers and the contractor are part of the group and we are in constant communication with them. We meet them over tea and discuss garbage issues. This combined effort by the citizens and the civic body has worked well,” Sheila Christian, a member of   group, said.
 
 Citizens elsewhere have taken up efforts to get rid of garbage. “Housing societies have joined hands with the PMC to process garbage and they process about 60 tons of garbage. 
 
 There are many societies where citizens are involved in maintaining vermi-composting pits. If more societies and citizens assist PMC and work with the civic body, finding a solution to the garbage menace will be easy,” PMC’s solid waste department chief Suresh Jagtap said.
 
