GURUGRAM: After cutting down over 8,000 trees in the last four months, civic authorities in Gurgaon have once again sought permission to cut 1,000 more trees along the national highway for the construction of three underpasses.

 Currently, National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) is carrying out construction of three underpasses at three junctions on NH-8 – Iffco Chowk, Signature Tower and Rajiv Chowk to facilitate east to west traffic movement in the city.
 
 The   informed that they have received a request to grant permission for   of trees under the Forest (Conservation) Act, 1980. “We have received a request from the authorities. Our range officer will go and inspect the area and we will then decide how many trees can be cut,” said MD Sinha, Conservator of Forests, Gurgaon circle. 
 
  officials, however, have assured that they will plant three times the trees that have been cut. “As per the norms, we will start a plantation drive where we will plant at least three times the number of trees that have been felled for the project,” said an official from Horticulture wing of Huda. 
 
 For the last five years, activists have been voicing concern over the protection of green belts as the Gurgaon Master Plan 2031 says that green belts can be modified to widen roads, if required. “Green belts are as important as forests. They protect us from the air pollution caused by heavy traffic on the national and state highways,” said Vivek Kamboj from Haryali, an environmental NGO. 
 
 Kamboj also alleged that more trees have been cut than required. “We have registered a complaint with the office of the Chief Minister regarding the same. The number of trees that have already been cut is more than what is needed to carry out the construction work. Areas around national highway in the city, particularly Sector 29, are extremely congested. It is high time we plant more trees, instead the authorities are cutting trees down, ” Kamboj said. 
 
 With a budget of Rs 1,005 crore, the three underpasses are expected to be completed within a year.
 
 
