MUMBAI: US clients of India’s $150-billion information technology services industry are inserting new caveats and exit clauses into outsourcing contracts on fears that the   administration may bring in a new tax regime that would make offshoring more expensive, experts say.
 
  “The worry for several companies that are outsourcing work is that, going ahead, they may face additional taxes of around 20% if they are offshoring their business under new laws that may be introduced within a year or so,” said Girish Vanvari, national head, tax, at KPMG India.
  
  So many companies are tweaking the way they outsource by introducing clauses such as pricing renegotiation in case of a tax hike and easier exit policy, or even opting for short-term contracts, experts said.
  
  “Some of the bigger clients have been seeking to introduce a clause that protect them in case of a new taxation and pricing would be renegotiated,” said Sandeep Ladda, national leader of technology at PwC.
  
  “In some cases, even Indian companies want to introduce caveats around deliverables and time frame, in case of a change in any laws around immigration,” he said.
  
  Fears of a tax on American companies that outsource jobs have been increasing ever since then President elect Trump tweeted about it in December 2016.
  
  Several outsourcing clients now want a caveat in the contract that, if the US does bring in the ‘Trump tax’ as it is called in the industry, then the pricing needs to be renegotiated, a business consultant said. Many are introducing new exit clauses.
  
  “While exit clauses always existed, in some cases clients want less or no penalties if they discontinue due to any regulatory change,” said Ladda of PwC.
  
  Many firms are also opting for short-term deals now. Last week, for instance, an American bank that outsources its work to an Indian IT company told the service provider that it wants to sign only short-term contracts now on.
  
  As an impact, big outsourcing clients have become reluctant to sign mega-contracts that were in vogue a decade ago, and many firms are increasingly insourcing work.
  
  
 
  
  “Even if there is no tax on imports of services as we fear but there are stricter regulations around H1B visas, it will affect their (IT companies’) economics and hence their capacity to execute contracts,” a person close to the US bank told ET.
  
  Peter Bendor-Samuel, CEO at Texas-based sourcing advisory firm Everest Group, said there is significant concern in the Indian IT industry around Trump’s trade and immigration agenda.
  
  “The most worrisome aspect of this agenda is the potential changes to the tax laws and the prospect of a boarder tax applied to services,” he said. Industry trackers worry that new taxation on imports will not just impact Indian software majors but also multinationals that have their back offices in India.
  
  “This is still a concern for many US companies that outsource work, not just to Indian IT companies but even to their own captive back-offices in India,” said Atul Deshmukh, lead partner, international assurance, at Indian tax firm KNAV.
  
  “The move to short term contracts may not be intended to discontinue outsourcing work, but more from the point of view of providing an early window to renegotiate prices, in case if the tax plan is actually introduced,” said Deshmukh, who is based in the US.
  
  As it stands today, the Trump tax is merely a proposal to give sops to exporters and levy penalties on imports. Industry experts say it may be virtually difficult to even comply with such a tax law and may be tough to pass such a regulation. 
