KOLKATA: Under normal circumstances, Sonika Singh Chauhan’s handbag and two cellphones — both   — should have been seized for investigations. A third person not related to the probe should not have had any access to them. However, actor   Chatterjee’s ‘Ichche Nodi’ co-actor Solanki Roy told TOI on Thursday that police had handed her both to check. 

 After a look at them she returned them to the investigators. Police say they have seized both, but questions are being raised on why Roy was allowed to access them. 
 
 Sonika’s cellphones, police sources admit, are crucial to the probe. It would have not only thrown light on the calls made or received during her final moments, but also help police establish the route she took with Vikram leading to the cash at Rashbehari Avenue. However, telltale signs now indicate a not-so-professional police approach when they handed over the articles seized at the “place of occurrence” instead of seizing them. 
 
 According to Roy, on Saturday morning, she got the news of the accident from Vikram’s friend Pritam Roy. “I got the news at 7am and rushed from   to Ruby. I saw a police van waiting outside,” she said.
 
 It was the duty officer who had given her two cellphones belonging to Sonika seeking help to unlock the lock pattern. On being asked if it was her celebrity status that had prompted him to hand her the evidence, Roy said, “I don’t know if he recognised me. He addressed me as madam and sought my help. I took the two phones in my hand but couldn’t help since I didn’t know Sonika’s lock pattern. I immediately returned the phones to him.”
 
 Not just the phones, the cops allegedly also handed her Sonika’s handbag. “The sole intention was to find something that would help them contact her family. He said since it was a woman’s bag, he didn’t want to open it himself. But he wanted to know if it contained any identity proof or number that would help contact Sonika’s family. I obliged. Right in front of the cops, I searched the bag. Apart from her lipstick and purse, I didn’t find anything that could be of help to contact the family. There was no identity card,” she said.
 
 However, police are empowered under Section 102 CrPC to “seize any property which may be alleged or suspected to have been stolen, or which may be found under circumstances which creates suspicion of the commission of any offence.” 
 
 Roy said, “Why will the cops give us such crucial pieces of evidence? We had asked if we could take   But that wasn’t given to us since it was an accident case.”
 
