   student  , who got rape and death threats on social media after launching online campaign #StudentsAgainstABVP, approached the Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) on Monday and complained against the online threats against her.

 
 DCW chief Swati Maliwal said the police must take action against those issuing rape threats to Gurmehar Kaur and set an example.
 
 
  In response to Kaur's online campaign, Minister of State for Home Kiren Rijiju asked, "Who's polluting this young girl's mind?" The union minister's comment has drawn flak from the opposition, with   dubbing the remark as "patriarchal".
 
 
 
 
 
  Home minister Rajnath Singh on Monday said he was in touch with Delhi Police over the situation arising out of the   clash. He has asked police to act with caution and "practice restraint".
 
 
 The Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad ( ) held a 'Tiranga Rally' in the Delhi University's North Campus, protesting against the All India Students Association (AISA) "for shouting anti-India slogans".
 
 
 Congress leader Manish Tewari said the assault on students and teachers by alleged ABVP activists at Ramjas College was part of a concerted effort by right-wing forces. "There is this pattern of intimidation and violence going across the country... The time has come for all to come together and fight this relentless assault on the Indian democracy by elements of the Sangh Parivar," Tewari said.
 
 
 In an emotional appeal a day before he retires, Ramjas College Principal Rajendra Prasad said, "I wish for nothing except that Ramjas remains peaceful, and committed to the glorious future it is destined to set for itself." He expressed his pain over the violence that swamped the college last week and urged students to stay calm when faced with conflict.
 
 
 Delhi chief minister   on Sunday attacked the  , whose student wing ABVP is at the center of the controversy. Sharing a video of Kaur speaking about the rape threats she received, Kejriwal tweeted, "Just listen to this. This is BJP. They will destroy our country. Everyone must rise against their goondaism."
 
 
  Fearing Ramjas like violence on its campus, the Ambedkar University in Delhi postponed an event marking the 26th anniversary of the alleged Kunan Poshpora mass rape in Kashmir. Speakers scheduled to address the event were sent an email informing them that the seminar had been postponed, citing alleged threats to "freedom of speech".
 
 
 In light of the clashes between ABVP supporters and AISA students at Ramjas, finance minister   blamed an "alliance of subversion" for university campus violence and argued that the separatists and the ultra-Left were speaking the same language in certain campuses.
 
 (With inputs from agencies)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
