TRICHY:The failure to check movement of vehicles, especially overloaded and unsafe, on roads was the main reason behind the death of 10 people in the road accident near Vallam in Thanjavur district on Friday. 

 While there is a law in place to check transportation of goods, the lack of effective implementation leads to such accidents which have become a routine in recent times. 
 
 A similar accident had claimed 17 lives near Trichy in 2015. The federation of consumer and service organisations has also called for the strict implementation of the amended rule 93(8) of the Central Motor Vehicle Rules, 1989. 
 
 Earlier vehicles were allowed to carry goods extending beyond the vehicle’s carriage up to a metre. They were allowed to do so by displaying proper warnings. Considering the safety of passengers and accidents triggered by such vehicles, the amendment was brought into curbed any such extension beyond vehicle’s carriage. 
 
 As per the amendment, vehicles are restricted from transporting goods, especially steel, that protrude beyond the body of the vehicle. 
 
 While the amendment came in to effect from March 2014, failure to implement it properly led the union government to write to each state in January 2015. It sent a copy of the amendment to the chief secretary of respective states and state DGP’s to ensure its effective implementation. 
 
 In October 2015, a   rammed into a truck which was stationary on the road side which had metal slabs protruding from its carraige. 17 passengers were killed in the accident. 
 
 “These lives could have been saved if the amendment was properly implemented by the authorities,” said M Sekaran, president of   and Service Organisations. 
 
 On Friday, a TNSTC bus from   with around 60 passengers on board tail-ended a stationary mini truck loaded with steel rods. The   was parked on the road side due to breakdown. 
 
 Demanding stringent action to curb   of goods on busy roads, Sekaran sought action against officials from concerned department and police for allowing transportation of such materials in violation of the law. 
 
