KOCHI: In an affidavit filed in the Kerala high court, a 28year-old Hindu woman has alleged that she was detained for 22 days at a yoga centre near   and “physically and mentally harassed“ to abandon her marriage to a Christian man.

 The woman, in her affidavit, also alleged that over 60 Hindu women who were married to men from other religions were under illegal detention at the Tripunithura centre, an organised effort that bore the trademark of the `ghar wapsi' movement.
 
 Dr Shweta, after escaping from the yoga centre, raised these allegations in an affidavit to support a habeas corpus petition filed originally by 29-year-old Rinto   of Thrissur after she went missing on July 27th. Prior to this, Shweta and Isaac had got married at a temple in Peechi and had given notice for marriage as per Special Marriage Act.
 
 According to Shweta, she lived with Isaac for close to 10 months but her father and family forced her to go for `counselling' at the yoga centre. Shweta told TOI that at the yoga centre her hands were often bound when she protested and that the `teaching'' there was con fined to revealing loopholes and contradictions in the Bible and the Quran. “We were forced to sleep on the floor of dormitories and the doors of bathrooms did not have locks. There were many who had been confined for years... Most of the inmates were ill but no treatment was given,“ Shweta said in the affidavit.   panchayat has issued closure notice to Yoga Vidya Kendra run by Manoj alias Guruji at Kandanadu in Tripunithura. Udayamperoor police arrested   on Monday . The four yoga tutors, including Manoj alias Guruji, are absconding.
 
 “A petition filed by a Dr Shweta at Kerala high court stated that atrocities including sexual harassment are being meted out to women in the counselling sessions held at the trust to bring women back to Hinduism,“  , state president of Women India Movement, the women's wing of SDPI, the political face of Popular Front of India, said at a news conference here on Monday . “The petition states that around 65 women living in the Yoga centre were subjected to sexual harassment... There is a torture room at the trust premises,“ Raihanath said.
 
 To assuage her tormentors, Shweta subsequently pretended to agree to everything they said and finally managed to escape when her parents took her to her elder sister's house at Muvattupuzha and to rejoin Isaac. In addition to seeking police protection from her tormentors, the woman has sought a court directive for a detailed investigation into the criminal activities of the trust that runs the centre at Tripunithura.The court has directed that the yoga centre be made a party in the case to know its views.
 
 The court also remarked if this was a Ram Rahim-type case in Kerala.
 
