NEW DELHI:  's   and  's   have a similar story to tell. They saw a group of guys in their respective villages and fell in love ­ not with the boys but with the sport they were playing.

 “Many years back, a tournament was held in our village and I went to watch it with my father. I saw these boys running around, kicking a ball and I said to myself, `even I can do that'. I asked my father `can I also play and he said `why not?'“ AIFF Player of the Year 2016, Sasmita Malik, told TOI during the launch of the   here on Tuesday .
 
 “I started playing   in 2010 looking at the boys in my village. It looked so easy ,“ said Sanju, the winner of the AIFF Emerging Player of the Year 2016.
 
 Both girls were excited at the launch of the league, which will be held at the Ambedkar Stadium from January 28 to February 14. The IWL will feature six teams ­ Jeppiar (Puducherry), Eastern Sporting Union (Imphal), Rising Student's Club (Cuttack), Football Club Alakhpura (Haryana) and a team each from I-League and ISL clubs, Aizawl FC and Pune City FC. “I had been waiting for this day for so long. We used to look at the men's league and wonder when we would have one of our own. Now, even girls can have a career in football,“ Sasmita said. Sasmita, now a veteran of 14 years, faced resistance from her extended family when she informed them she wanted to play football, way back in 2002.
 
 “We used to live in a joint family . My chachu (father's younger brother) said girls don't play football. I was heartbro ken and pleaded with my brother. He was then staying with another uncle to pursue his studies. He returned to our village and informed everyone that a lot of women play the game these days and insisted I should be given a chance. Devendra Sharma (now MLA from Aul constituency) announced that he would provide the necessary kits to the players.That is where it all started and soon, those who were against my decision, started supporting me,“ she said.
 
 For Sanju, though, things went smoothly . “My parents always supported me. They are farmers. Somehow, they fulfilled my every requirement, be it shoes or a new jersey .“ The villagers, said Sanju, helped the girls in following their passion. “Our villagers supported us financially . They helped us in making the pitch and buying footballs. There are 150 girls playing football in Alakhpura village today ,“ she said, beaming with pride. “I used to train in the morning ­ 5am during summers and 7am during winters. I would then assist my father in the fields and return to training in the evening. It was tiring and my parents told me to just focus on my football, but I did not listen. I helped them as they used to work throughout the day and I wanted to reduce their burden Even my siblings help my parents. The whole family is involved in farming,“ said Sanju.
 
 
