MANGALURU: Chamu Krishna Shastry, co-founder of the Samskrita Bharati movement, aims to make Sanskrit popular across the world as a conversational language.

 His efforts, for which he was awarded the  , have led to more than 90 lakh people learning conversational Sanskrit through 10-day spoken Sanskrit camps of Samskrita Bharati.
 
 “The Padma Shri honour announced is, in fact, an award to Samskrita Bharati, its 35 years of tapasya and the dedicated karyakartas in India and all over the world. I am only a representative of Samskrita Bharati,” said Chamu Krishna Sastry. He is secretary of Samskrit Promotion Foundation.
 
 Chakrakodi Moodambailu Krishna Shastry, born on January 23, 1956, at Kedila village of Bantwal taluk, is the son of Eshwar Shastry. An RSS worker, he learnt Sanskrit from Rashtriya Sanskrit Vidyapeetha, Tirupati.
 
 The author of 13 books in Sanskrit, his experience in education and teaching led him to be on the Board of Rashtriya Sanskrit Sansthan and many other universities. He was also a member of the central government constituted   that developed the “Road Map for the Development of Sanskrit – Ten-Year Perspective Plan” document in 2016. Shastry and a few of his friends went on to start the ‘Speak Sanskrit’ Movement in 1981.The movement evolved into the not-for-profit organization Samskrita Bharati, which is active all over India and in 13 countries.
 
  Classroom revolutionary
 
 Mangalorean Anant Agarwal, president of edX, a worldwide, online learning initiative of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) and  , was named by Forbes magazine among the 15 “classroom revolutionaries” who were using innovative technologies to reinvent education for students and teachers globally. He taught the first edX course on circuits and electronics from MIT, which drew 1.55 lakh students from 162 countries. Scientific American selected his work on organic computing as one of 10 World- Changing Ideas in 2011. A pioneer in computer architecture, he is a member of the  , a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, and a fellow of the ACM.
 
 Agarwal did his early education in the city's   right from Class 1 to PUC (1977). He holds a Ph.D from Stanford and a bachelor’s degree from the Indian Institute of Technology, Madras, and led the development of Raw - an early tiled multicore processor, Sparcle - an early multithreaded microprocessor, and Alewife - a scalable multiprocessor. He also led the VirtualWires project at MIT and was the founder of Virtual Machine Works, which took the VirtualWires technology to market.
 
