PUNE: Mayor   on Wednesday said implementing the   would be on top of her priority list and she would not hesitate in taking some tough decisions for it.

 Stating that she would ensure the state government provided adequate funds for the implementation of the development plan (DP), she said, “Some ‘tough decisions’ will be necessary to raise funds for the DP’s implementation. Besides, the civic body will have to curtail its expenses and keep a check on spending to ensure more funds are available for  .”
 
 On how funds would be raised, Tilak said she would spell out details at an appropriate time.
 
 Chief minister Devendra Fadnavis had sanctioned the DP for old city areas a few days before the announcement of the civic polls. The NCP had objected to the provisions in the sanctioned DP, claiming it was a poll gimmick.
 
 A four-time corporator, Tilak — the first mayor of the BJP — said, women’s security, conservation of environment and implementation of the metro rail project would also be her priorities.
 
 “Conservation of environment is a priority area for me. I have appealed to every corporator in the city to take up at least one environment-related programme in their areas every month. We shall join hands with organizations working in the field of environment protection and conservation. Programmes like adopting rainwater harvesting will help save water and protect environment,” she said.
 
 Tilaks said her win in mayor’s election was an outcome of the BJP workers’ relentless efforts and hard work over last many years and her mayorship was an honour for her party. “My mayorship is a mark of respect to Lokmanya Tilak, who dedicated everything to society. I shall work in the same spirit,” she said.
 
 She said the country was undergoing a tremendous change in the past two-and-a-half years under the leadership of Narendra Modi. “People have appreciated the Modi-led government’s decisions, including demonetisation. People in the city have voted BJP to power for change and my team will put in all efforts to meet their expectations,” Tilak added.
 
 Guardian minister Girish Bapat, present at the   (PMC) for the mayor’s election, said the city would see overall development in the BJP’s regime and the state government would provide required assistance for the city’s development.
 
 
