NAGPUR: “Talaq uttered just once is enough for separation of man and wife. However, there is a scope for reconciliation when divorce is granted this way. But pronouncing   in a single sitting ruptures the marriage irrevocably,” said Sumaiyya Sheikh, a member of the women’s wing of Nagpur west of   ( ), on Friday.

 Sheikh was speaking at a meet of intellectuals organized as part a fortnight-long countrywide awareness campaign on Muslim personal law by JIH exclusively for women at Marcas Masjid, Jaffar Nagar. A number of intellectuals, including doctors, engineers, lawyers, professors and social activists, participated in the programme. 
 
 With the ongoing controversy over triple   and uniform civil code, the Jamaat emphasized the need for endorsing Shariat Law (Islamic Law) for its protection. The meeting also discussed code of conduct for marriage, divorce and inheritance to clear misconceptions and help women know their rights. 
 
 Sheikh claimed that most men in India have knowledge only about talaq-ul-biddat (uttering talaq thrice) which is a sinful method. Explaining benefits of talaq-ul-ahsan, the most approved way, she said, “A couple can reconcile within three months after talaq is said only once. Post this period, they have to carry out the process of nikah (marriage) again. There is no time frame for reuniting in this case.” 
 
 Triple talaq said in anger does not leave any chance for reunion, she added.
 
 According to Benazir Khan, talaq is a blessing in disguise for Muslims. She said, “Unlike the Hindu Marriage Act which does not allow separation within 1.5 years of marriage, Shariat law offers immediate end to marital relationship in case it does not work.” Men who resort to triple talaq and exploit women will now have to face social boycott, said Khan. 
 
 For dispute within Muslim families, doors of Darul Qaza ( ) should be knocked instead of approaching the judiciary, said lawyer Sadia Khan. She said, “We have our own set of rules based on Quran and we should abide by them to resolve conflicts the Islamic way.” 
 
 Grooming sessions for men will control the deplorable situation, asserted Shazia Khan, founder and director of Steps Play School. She said, “While educating them about correct ways of divorce, we must provide guidance to handle marriage with patience and make every effort to keep it alive. Have faith in Almighty and make compromises, if need be.”
 
 
