It was entertainment, entertainment and entertainment, for the audience, when the students of St Teresa’s College in the city put up a spirited show 
  as part of the Teresian week held every year. Titled  , it was a celebration of 92 years of sisterhood, camaraderie, unraveling new arenas, and most of all, womanhood.

  The event could not have had a better start to it, when  , dressed in a dark blue shirt and mundu, made a grand entry to the college premises to inaugurate the event. Cheers welcomed him from all over the auditorium as he stepped in, with the Neruppu Da song playing in the background in full gusto. The actor recalled how the girls’ college premises used to be a favourite haunt and how he used to hang around near the college when he was young, leaving the audience in splits.
 
  Around 120 students showcased their best talents on stage, reaping applause from the audience. Dona Benny, the chairperson of the college said that this was the first time a programme from the college was open to the public. She added, “Our intention was to bring in students of the college spanning 92 years, since its origin. The vibe was totally different when all the Teresians gathered on the same platform.”
 
  From dance, music and fashion shows, there was everything to keep the audience glued to their seats. Animation films such as Frozen and The Beauty and the Beast made it to the list of themes that the students incorporated to their dance performances. The events kicked off with a Ranga Pooja, a classical dance performance. The flamenco recital by students in black, white and red attire was a visual treat, and the Spanish show, one of which was the peppy Senorita song, with the rhythmic steps adding to the energy. One of the highlights of the event was a rendition of the all-time hits of AR Rahman by the students. Actress Sanusha, who is also a student of the college, was seen busy coordinating the events. DR Crew, a popping dance group from a popular dance reality show also showcased a spectacular show. Pearle Maaney and Sreesanth were so impressed by one of the dancers, Ann, that she even called her on-stage to groove along with them.
 
  Ex-students from the 1961 batch till the current one made it to the event, and all were seen reliving their college days. Suma Ravindran, who passed out from the college in 1978, headed the alumni. She said, “As the students were cheering loudly, I was telling my friends how we used to do the same. We miss doing all that.” While Marina, another ex-student from the 75-78 batch said that it was a refreshing experience to come back to their alma mater, it was an opportunity for Anitha Nahas to get in touch with her batch mates again. Anitha concludes, “It was such a wonderful and thrilling experience that we felt transposed to the bygone days. We look forward to many more such programmes.”
 
 
