NAGPUR: A fortnight after she scripted her maiden victory over a Grandmaster in Mumbai's Mayor Cup, 13-year-old   continued with her impressive show in the Commonwealth Chess Championship at New Delhi. 

 With a stunning win over Bangladesh National champion and one of the strongest GM Hossain Enamul, city's Women Chess Master (WCM) hogged the limelight at the national capital on Thursday.
 
 In the Mumbai's Mayor Cup, Mrudul utilized her opening advantage with the white pieces well to surprise American GM  . In New Delhi, she not only defended well but carved out one of the biggest upset with the black pieces. 
 
 Mrudul opted for the Scandinivian opening to force the experienced 13th seeded GM to resign after a marathon play that lasted over 80 moves. 
 
 Explaining Mrudul's victory, National arbiter   said, "Mrudul's Scandinivian opening took Hossain's by surprise and he made some theoretical errors too. In the middle game she got plus position. Mrudul carried the advantage till the end to secure full point."
 
 Elated with her victory Mrudul said, "This was one of my biggest win. After beating American GM in Mumbai I wanted to face strong players here. Yesterday, when I was given the 4th round draw I was happy to face the Bangladesh GM. I along with my coach (  sir) prepared well and got the success. His irregular opening helped me to get a positive start."
 
 The BVM, Trimurti Nagar, student added, "I wish to face more title holders because this will help me clear my second WIM norm. I will try my best to clear the second norm here itself."
 
  too is following the progress of city payers from Spain. Praising Mrudul's show he said, "She is playing excellent chess at this stage. Nagpur's local chess standard is very high. 13 years old defeating Bangladesh National champ is simply amazing."
 
 With a defeat and three wins, Mrudul garnered three points and is holding the fort at the third spot. Before her Thursday's win she defeated city's Narayani Adane and Saroha Chirag of Australia. In the second round Mrudul went down fighting against Vidarbha's only GM Swapnil Dhopade.
 
 After four rounds, Dhopade is sharing the lead with full four points. Other city players   and Narayani Adane have so far collected 1.5 points.
 
 
