NEW DELHI: In view of the large number of aggrieved   who had invested in real estate giant Unitech’s projects across the country and have not got possession of flats, the   on Friday directed that an online portal be created to enable investors to post their documents and claims for refund. 

 A bench of Chief Justice Dipak Mishra and Justices A M Khanwilkar and D Y Chandrachud directed advocate  , who is assisting the court as amicus curiae, to create a website by September 21, in which the home buyers could upload their claims for possession of flats or to get their money back.
 
 The need for a website arose as there are around 17,000 investors and it was very difficult to collect details of all the home-buyers. 
 
 In the meantime, the bench refused to grant interim bail to Unitech’s incarcerated managing director Sanjay Chandra and his brothers and made it clear that they would be allowed to come out of jail only after the court approves a scheme to protect the interests of home-buyers.
 
 “We will consider the plea for bail after the data of home-buyers seeking refund or flats is collated. Let the matter be listed for September 21. The amicus curiae should inform the court about the link of website by next date of hearing,” the bench said.
 
 Agarwal said there were around 17,000 flat buyers who had invested in 74 projects of the company and it would take time to collect all the data of home-buyers.
 
 Senior advocate Salman Khurshid, appearing for Chandra, pleaded that he should be released on bail and assured the court that interests of the investors would be protected. Khurshid said it would be easier for the company to raise the money to refund to investors and they are released from jail. “My client wants to settle with each and every home-buyer. But for that he needs to go to his office to work out a detailed plan," he said.
 
 The bench, however, said relief could not be granted till the court gets a clear idea on how many investors wanted to get their money back. “You furnish every detail about all the projects to the amicus who shall collate the data about the home buyers seeking refund, flats or plots, so that we have a complete clear picture,” the bench said.
 
 Chandra was arrested on the basis of a complaint filed on behalf of 158 investors in Unitech's Anthea project in Gurugram. However, during the hearing on September 1, the SC indicated that it would take into consideration the plight of home-buyers who had invested in all housing projects of   after investors in three more projects — Vistas in Gurgaon and Burgundy and Amber in Noida — sought relief.
 
 
