PUNE: Born into a family of defence officers,   from Ghaziabad also decided to join the forces. However, along the way, he picked up a passion for wildlife, which would drive him to make an award-winning film. 

 Goswami, currently an assistant commandant in the   (BSF), was awarded the third prize for his film Chronicles Of A Wildlifer at the Kirloskar Vasundhara International Film Festival on Thursday.
 
 Talking about his passion, Goswamy told TOI that since his family moved around the country due to postings, he had always had a liking for the outdoors. “We had lived in different places including Bangalore and Shillong where I experienced the outdoors. My passion grew as I pursued my studies in wildlife sciences. Later, I focused on crimes against wildlife as an area that needed to be brought to the fore,” he shared.
 
 It was during his post-graduation in wildlife biology in 2011 that he was given the opportunity to study deer at the   near Sawai Madhopur, Rajasthan. “The footage used in the film was shot at this time. It was then I realized that most documentaries about wildlife sciences centred around the wildlife species, rather than the people who pursue them,” he explained.
 
 “I wanted to spread the message about the life of a wildlife researcher and what their day-to-day work entails. I also wanted to try to bring awareness about crimes against wildlife as a subject under the mandate of the paramilitary forces,” he added.
 
 By the time the realization dawned upon him, Goswamy had already been posted in BSF’s anti-naxal operations as assistant commandant. After his duty hours, he continued to learn skills needed to make a film. “In my spare time, I would learn script writing, practice voice-overs, and film editing. I spent my after-hours in 2015 and 2016 to finish the film,” the officer said.
 
 “Illegal wildlife trade is among the top crimes in the world. The concluding minutes of my film are also about the crime. Once the forces get better knowledge of this, a nodal wing may be set up to liaise with other environmental and forest agencies to check such crimes,” he stated as he spoke of his aim.
 
 
