LUCKNOW: Nearly 48 hours after a   on the second floor of the   of   ( ) on Saturday, officials are yet to fix responsibility for the incident. 

 Around 800 people had a narrow escape from the fire and the massive cloud of smoke that engulfed the Trauma Centre building on Saturday evening. At least 13 people allegedly lost their lives during shifting to either other departments of KGMU or to other hospitals. 
 
 Chief medical superintendent (CMS), Dr SN Sankhwar said, “A probe committee has been formed by the vice-chancellor comprising medical superintendent Prof Vijay Kumar, chief proctor Prof RAS Kushwaha, executive engineer Dinesh Raj and chief fire officer AB Pandey and me as the CMS. Any action would be taken after the report is submitted by Tuesday evening." 
 
 However, many senior professors pointed out that Saturday's incident could have been averted, had the university taken action after previous incidents of fire. In the past one year, KGMU has seen four fire incidents - in the basement of the pathology department in August 2016, at the registrar office in 2016, at the sleep laboratory of the physiology department in May 2017 and at the dental faculty in June 2017. 
 
 Regarding previous incidents, KGMU registrar Umesh Mishra said, "We had given a notice to junior engineers — electrical and mechanical — who are responsible for the fire safety system, asking them to put things in place." When asked about the compliance, Mishra replied, "They had undertaken refilling of all fire-extinguishers on the campus."
 
 Following this, the engineers conducted a survey of 15 units of KGMU and submitted a report to the administration in May 2017 that all buildings, including the Trauma Centre, had a fully functional fire safety system and that all measure in case of a fire emergency, were in place. 
 
 However in June 2017, the chief fire officer (CFO) sent a notice to KGMU, raising issues about its dysfunctional fire safety measures. 
 
 
 
 
 Fire Services (Director) PK Rao visited Trauma Center on Monday and told TOI that KGMU did not obtain the mandatory NOC from the fire department before construction. It had no space for movement of fire tenders, a proper staircase for carrying patients during exigency, smoke extraction, fire detectors and water filling system. 
 
 
