RANCHI: The state capital is likely to give the chief minister’s orders to crack down against unlicensed slaughterhouses and meat shops a slip for the time being. The Ranchi district authority is planning to postpone the enforcement of the order on the city’s illegal abattoirs and meat shops till April 5 as back-to-back festivities keep the law-keepers busy. 

 The district machinery and the police on Wednesday hinted that maintaining law and order during Thursday’s Sarhul festival was its immediate priority. 
 
 Speaking to mediapersons at his office in the afternoon, Ranchi deputy commissioner Manoj Kumar said: “Maintaining law and order is the biggest challenge for the district authority during Sarhul, Ramnavami (April 5) and President Pranab Mukherjee’s one-day Ranchi visit on April 2.” 
 
 Speaking to TOI later in the evening, Ranchi senior superintendent of police (SSP) Kuldeep Dwivedi said the police was awaiting instructions from the DC and the Ranchi Municipal Corporation (RMC) for the drive against illegal abattoirs and meat shops. 
 
 “We are yet to get the list of licensed abattoirs. Our role is to facilitate the Ranchi district authority and the RMC to shut down the illegal shops. We will follow the orders,” Dwivedi said. 
 
 Ranchi is set to witness huge gatherings on its streets on Thursday afternoon as thousands of tribal people are expected to take out processions on the occasion of Sarhul. Tribal priests, also referred to as Pahans, are to make ceremonious sacrifice of chicken as part of the ritual and tradition. However, the order for closure of the illegal meat shops is to not affect the rituals. 
 
 Sources in the district authority said, the crackdown against illegal slaughter-houses and meat shops are being put on hold keeping in mind the history of communal disharmony during the Ramnavami celebrations. “The police machinery will be looking after the security aspects for the President’s visit in between,” an official of the district authority said. 
 
 Meanwhile, the police on Wednesday said it has put in place adequate security measures for Sarhul processions, which include drone cameras, CCTVs, quick response teams and a band of volunteers. 
 
