SECUNDERABAD: Come April all residential and commercial properties in   will get new house numbers. The   (SCB), which launched the new house number programme five months ago, will complete the task soon. Buildings in all the eight civilian wards will get these new house numbers.

 “We have completed the task in seven wards. We will complete the work in the remaining ward soon,“ officials said. Ward VIII member   launched the house numbering project in his division on Saturday .
 
 The new house numbering project is the first of its kind in all the 62 cantonments in the country . The authorities allotted new house numbers to residential and commercial properties separately . Two different colours have been allotted to houses to distinguish them as residential and commercial.Residential buildings will get blue number plate and red maroon plates for commercial buildings. Around 42,200 properties including residential and commercial have been identified during fixing of house number plates programme in Secunderabad.
 
 “So far, new house numbers have been fixed to 5,145 properties in Ward No-I and 6.932 properties in Ward No-II, 5,230 properties in Ward No-III, 2,924 in Ward No-IV , 5,865 in Ward No-V , 5,983 in Ward No-VI and 5,350 in Ward No-VII. Authorities have now identified 4.983 properties in Ward VIII.By the third week of March, we will complete the process. Separate house numbers have been given for properties located on main roads,“ SCB House Numbering Project in-charge Parusuram told TOI.
 
 The old numbers that have been in use for nearly six decades will now become obsolete.The existing numbers are confusing. They are not in serial order. The new numbering system is easier. One can locate houses without any trouble. It will help SCB authorities to as sess properties for tax.
 
 Official clarified that new house numbers will also be allotted to properties located in 16 bazaars which have been existing since the British era. For instance, properties located in Bolarum Bazaar, Kawkoor Bazar, Ammugda Bazar, RA pension lines, Lalbazar, Gunrock Bazar, Karkhana Bazar, Bearers lines (Sikh village), 108 bazar, Picket Bazar, Cavilary Bazar, Kadakpura Bazar pension-lines Tadbund Bazar and  , added the official.
 
 The SCB has also decided to fix indexes (sign boards) at the beginning of road. The SCB will send the final list of new numbers to the  , all mandal tehsildar offices, sub-registrar offices and post offices.
 
