RANCHI: Communist Party of India (Marxist) politburo member   on Friday criticised the decision of BJP-ruled states, including  , to ban unlicenced abattoirs and meat shops. Brinda asked the Raghubar Das-led state government to “arrange for alternative measures of livelihood for those involved in the business (of selling meat)”. 

 Launching an attack on the Uttar Pradesh and Jharkhand governments at the party headquarters here, the former parliamentarian said, “There is a law against cow slaughter. It is right because cow is hailed as a mother. But since when did goat, fish and chicken start being hailed as mother?”
 
 Brinda cited a recent order issued by the Allahabad high court and said, “The Allahabad HC had ordered the Uttar Pradesh government to ensure alternative measures for those involved in this trade before implementing the ban. The BJP-ruled states, including Jharkhand, made no alternate arrangements for the meat sellers before imposing the ban.” She also called the ban a violation of constitutional rights of meat sellers. 
 
 Brinda announced that Tripura chief minister   will lead a rally at Argora Maidan in the city on Saturday to protest the state government’s move to amend the tenancy laws . 
 
 The veteran politician also took a dig at the Election Commission for allowing Prime Minister Narendra Modi to visit Sahibganj on Thursday to lay the foundation of a slew of projects. Modi also addressed a gathering there later. 
 
 Opposition political parties, including JMM, had written to the EC to stop Modi’s visit three days before the assembly bypoll in Littipara, calling it a “violation of model code of conduct.” 
 
 “Government announcements are banned in all the places which are holding assembly byelections. The role of the EC in Littipara assembly bypoll is questionable after what happened. BJP is making inroads into Littipara by using unfair measures,” Brinda alleged. 
 
 She reiterated that the party’s objective is to continue its struggle against the “oppressive” moves of the “RSS-backed BJP government at the Centre.”
 
