When filmmaker couple   and   joined Delhi's ladies for a discussion on creativity, it turned out to be a sneak peek session into the world of filmmaking for the audience at the   (FLO)'s interactive session - Harnessing the Power of Creativity from Ads-Shads to Films-Shilms. Since both Balki and Gauri Shinde ventured into filmmaking from the ad world, they drew comparisons and said that the one thing that is common in both industries is a good story.

 
 
 Even though both industries are about show business, the filmmakers said that making movies and advertising are anything but glamorous professions. Balki said, "People think this is a glamorous industry. Ever since I walked into this profession I have wondered, where is the glamour? We shoot in difficult conditions - it's hot, it's this, that, and you are shooting. How can anybody function like this!"
 
 
 
 When asked whether cinema or ads, which is his first love, Balki revealed that he always wanted to make films. He said, "I didn't know what advertising was, I just wanted to make films. Ramesh Sippy's face used to appear in a marketing communications company's ads. So, I got tricked into thinking that I'd do it for two-three years and then I will work with him. After 14 years in advertising industry, when I met Ramesh Sippy, I told him, 'You are the culprit!' But I have always believed it's about telling stories and I have told thousands of stories in advertising."
 
  
  
 
 
 
 The topic then moved to Balki's first film Cheeni Kum. He said, "I was addicted to advertising to 14 years and my cushy job till one day I got stuck with an idea. And it was a feature film idea - 'Cheeni Kum'. I was a great fan of   and he was the only man I knew in Bollywood because his first comeback ad after the sabbatical was with me. So I told him, 'I have this one line idea, if you agree to do it, I will write'. And he said, 'Write it'. So I wrote the film keeping Amitabh and Tabu in my mind. If they would have refused, I would not have made the film." Balki went on to make three films with Bachchan - Paa, Cheeni Kum and Shamitabh.
 
 
 
 When Balki was asked, if given a choice, which Bollywood Khan would he like to work with, he said, "Akshay." Balki is working with Akshay Kumar in his next film 'PadMan'. He explained, "If I start thinking of making a film with them right now, I will get quite old by the time I start. I would rather be more practical."
 
  
  Gauri Shinde (BCCL/ Samik Sen)
 
 
 
 Gauri told the audience that she can't even think of making a movie unless she finds an idea that is worth living with for two years. She said, "When I saw Balki making a feature film I got really scared. I thought, there is no way I could do it. It was so much hard work. Then I decided, that until I find an idea which is worth living with for two years, I won't do it. But it just happened. When I came up with the idea of 'English Vinglish', I was like, who will put money into it? A middle-aged woman in a sari, no glam, no item number. At some point, I was asked, if you have Sridevi in your film, why don't you make her dance? But I was very clear, 'Hoga to aise hi hoga, nahin to nahin hoga.' Then Balki told me, 'This is a film worth making, let's make it'."
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 When Gauri was asked about her opinion on nepotism, she laughed it off, saying, "He (Balki) got there first. So, there's a bit of nepotism there. I think it's tough until you prove yourself and you need something successful." Balki added, "It's an industry, like most other industries.They celebrate success and it’s really simple. There can be camps and other things, but all camps form around successful people. It's strange."
 
 
