NEW DELHI: India has cranked up the military pressure along the 778-km Line of Control with 
  against Pakistan Army posts and terror launch pads, which have become all the more fiercer after the beheading of two Indian soldiers in the Krishna Ghati sector on May 1.

 The Army said on Tuesday that the targeted fire assaults, with light field guns, anti-tank guided missiles, heavy mortars, rocket launchers and “infantry tanks”, are being conducted to “pro-actively dominate” the Line of Control and “destroy locations aiding infiltration of terrorists” as part of the overall counter-terrorism strategy.
 
 A short video clip of one such assault with weapons being used in “a direct firing mode” at the Naushera sector on May 9, which ostensibly shows some forward observation posts of the Pakistan Army being blown up across the LoC, was also released by the Army’s additional director-general of public information Major General A K Narula.
 
 Defence minister Arun Jaitley, on his part, said the government fully supported the Army’s “actions across the LoC” for ensuring peace in J&K. “Indian Army is taking pre-emptive and measured actions to counter terrorism in the Valley and disengage Pakistan posts across the LoC which support infiltration,” he added.
 
 Pakistan military spokesperson Maj Gen Asif Ghafoor, however, dubbed the “Indian claims” as “false”. But it was brushed aside by the Indian security establishment. “There have been casualties in our bunker-bursting assaults across the border, though it’s tough to assess the extent of damage. If the Pakistan Army and ISI have stepped up efforts to fuel trouble in the Kashmir Valley, we have decided to keep them hopping on the LoC. Pakistan Army, of course, is adept at hiding its casualties,” a top Army officer told TOI.
 
 The Army’s cross-border fire assaults, and their public declarations much like the “surgical strikes” of last September, are being seen as part of the unfolding Modi-Doval doctrine of “offensive-defence” in dealing with Pakistan. There is, of course, also the need to burnish the government’s tough-on-terror stance and assuage domestic sensitivities.
 
 Pakistan is not keeping quiet, although its attention is slightly divided between its western and eastern borders. Apart from trying to push in as many militants as possible with the snow melting on mountain passes, as was seen during the killing of four terrorists in a major infiltration bid in the Naugam sector on Saturday, the Pakistan Army is also targeting Indian posts located below their positions at different places along the LoC.
 
 But the Pakistan Army also seems edgy about the escalating operational situation along its eastern border, holding as it recently did that “any misadventure by   across the LoC will be a miscalculation, shall be responded with full force and could lead to unintended consequences”.
 
 India has already warned Pakistan through DGMO hotline talks about the growing number of terror launch pads and camps as well as border action team (BAT) encampments -- the latter including the presence of Pakistan Army’s elite Special Service Group commandos – along the LoC and deeper inside Pakistan-occupied-Kashmir. “The presence of at least three BAT encampments and 15 major terror-training camps has been detected,” said an officer.
 
 While the entire LoC has turned red-hot, the Army is particularly concentrating its fire barrages and intensive sniping operations in the area under the 25 Infantry Division, headquartered in Rajouri, which spreads from Poonch to Naushera.
 
 “The Pakistan Army has been providing support to armed infiltrators by engaging our forward troops from their weapon emplacements and pill-boxes closer to the LoC. At times, they have not even hesitated to target villages,” said Maj Gen Narula.
 
 “We want peace and tranquility in J&K. For this purpose, it’s essential the infiltrations along the LoC are controlled to bring down the number of terrorists in J&K and prevent Kashmiri youth from being influenced by them,” he added.
 
