KOCHI: The Centre has granted Rs 9 crore to the   (CMFRI) to establish national brood banks of two marine fishes-cobia and pompano. The Department of Animal Husbandry, Dairying and Fisheries ( ), under the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, approved the CMFRI's proposal to enhance production of farmed cobia (Rachycentron canadum) and pompano (Trachinotus blochii) through the establishment of brood banks and supply of larvae to all coastal states for seed production. 

 The brood bank will be set up at   regional centres of the CMFRI and regional hatcheries will be established in all maritime states. The brood bank will have quarantine facility, broodstock holding tanks, recirculation aquaculture systems and photothermal control systems. The proposed facility will sustainably produce fertilized eggs and newly-hatched larvae from bio-secure broodstocks of cobia and pompano fed with suitable diets under controlled water quality parameters and photoperiod.
 
 According to Dr A Gopalakrishnan, CMFRI director, the new project will help address the problem of scarcity of quality seeds of cobia and pompano, which are among the most suitable species for sea cage farming in Indian waters. "Since the present marine capture fisheries has been unable to meet growing seafood demand, we have to focus on increasing the marine fish production through mariculture activities. However, scarcity of quality seeds has been a major impediment to the mariculture industry in the country. The proposed brood banks and regional hatchery facilities will cater to the requirements of quality seeds of cobia and pompano in all the maritime states," he said. 
 
 With the establishment of the brood banks, production of 48 million newly-hatched larvae of pompano and 30.72 million newly-hatched larvae of cobia could be achieved per year, Dr Gopalakrishnan said.
 
 "There is a network of over 1,000 cages spread across the country under the technical guidance of the CMFRI. Lack of adequate seed supply often hamper the mariculture industry and so brood banks of marine finfish as a national facility is the need of the hour," he said.
 
 
