JAIPUR: On February 2, the state department of health issued orders to all   to instruct   (ASHA) workers to conduct a thorough survey to ascertain the number of   in the state. This order follows a resolution by the prime minister to eradicate tuberculosis in the country by 2025. ASHA workers have been instructed not only to collect information about those currently undergoing treatment for TB, but also to screen members of their family and put all those in their areas showing symptoms of the disease through screening. The aim is to collect all the information by March 26. The process began on February 25.

 “This is a golden opportunity to also survey the extent of   prevalence in the state. All that is needed is for the format of the information-gathering sheet, which currently has 16 columns, to expand a little and accommodate information on occupational history. This would aid in proper diagnosis of silicosis. I have raised the matter with authorities, but have not managed to convince them,” Rana Sengupta of   told TOI.
 
 Chhaya Pachauli of NGO Prayas said, “It’s true, just one or two additional questions and an examination of occupational history might go a long way in detecting the extent of the prevalence of silicosis in the state. Now that this massive exercise is being undertaken to uncover the extent of TB, which has symptoms that are quite close to TB, it would be advisable for the government to expand the questionnaire just a little bit. It would not be a very big additional burden either.”
 
 State tuberculosis officer Dr Dilip Kala said, “What we are undertaking now is just an assessment of the number of people showing symptoms of TB. Once we have identified all these patients, we will need to treat them – whether the disease is identified as TB, pneumonia or silicosis. The process is already underway. To get messages across to ASHA workers in the field takes us about a month. Besides, this is a survey we are undertaking across the state. For estimating those affected with silicosis, we need focus only on about 30 blocks in the state. When we do a second phase of this process, we could consider also including questions on silicosis. For that, we need to be better planned and prepared, and we need to brief the ASHA workers well.” 
 
 
