Hyderabad: Amid the ongoing India-China border standoff, the 19th round of the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership ( ) negotiations by the Trade Negotiations Committee (TNC) kicked off in the city on Monday. 

 Stepping in for commerce minister Nirmala Sitharaman, who was supposed to inaugurate the event but could not make it due to the ongoing parliament session, commerce secretary Rita Teaotia declared the event open and urged the negotiators to strive for ‘inclusiveness’.
 
 RCEP is a trade agreement being negotiated between the 10 ASEAN countries (Brunei, Cambodia, Indonesia, Laos, Malaysia, Myanmar, the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand, Vietnam) and their six FTA (free trade agreement) partners (Australia, China, India, Japan, New Zealand and South Korea). This is the second time the negotiations are being held in India after the sixth round of negotiations were held in December 2014. “While RCEP is a beacon of hope for free trade, its real success will be measured by its ability to bring prosperity, economic growth, decent living standards, new jobs and greater business opportunities for people of our region in an equitable manner. We need to reflect on the fact that imperfect inclusiveness across and within countries associated with trade and economic growth in the past is one of the primary reasons for rising protectionism across the world,” she said in her inaugural address.
 
 She pointed out that the participating countries are at various levels of development, which is why the negotiators must “temper their approach with realism and pragmatism” to provide the space to participating countries to address their sensitivities and ensure that the potential gains are not confined to a few participants.
 
 The commerce secretary also said that the RCEP is unique in its own way as it is the only mega regional trading arrangement being negotiated in the world today. “The world economy is moving through a sluggish and unsteady phase of recovery after the global economic slowdown. A pervading climate of uncertainty is fuelling diffidence and pushing back economic reforms in various countries. Globalisation, which is underpinned by free trade and openness, is threatened by rising voices of protectionism and, thus, it is important that RCEP offers a positive and forward looking alternative in this somewhat pessimistic economic environment,” she added.
 
 
