GUWAHATI: After the march to   on Monday, the Nobel peace laureate  's Bharat Yatra is now on its way to North Bengal raising a collective concern about the safety of children in India who are often subject to sexual abuse and trafficking.

 This district in western Assam bordering Bangladesh is vulnerable to child trafficking. The march to Dhubri saw everyone lending their voice against child abuse. All members of civil society, including men, women and youngsters, joined the crusade to make the state a safer place for children.
 
 Reiterating his mission, Satyarthi said,"Why am I marching? Because my children are being raped. I refuse to accept that eight children go missing and two are raped every hour. Every time a child is in danger, India is in danger. Bharat Yatra is to make India safe for our children." The yatra, launched by Satyarthi in Kanyakumari in the south on September 11, is marching across the country to build an unprecedented awareness about combating child sexual abuse and trafficking. The 35-day march will reach Delhi on October 16.
 After the flag-off in Guwahati on Friday, the yatra reached Dhubri on Monday amid great enthusiasm by students and faculty members of  . The students expressed concern about the safety of children in the northeast as Assam reports approximately 30% of human trafficking cases in the country.
 
 Dhubri, which stares at the twin problems of child labour and trafficking, wants stronger enforcement of existing laws in the country to protect children and their childhood. Cutting across faith, geographical terrain, profession and vocation, people came together to support the cause Surakshit Bachpan-Surakshit Bharat, which can be best achieved by sensitizing the people against the evils of child abuse.
 
 The yatra is a culmination of three years of campaign against child sexual abuse. Among the many objectives of the march are increasing awareness, reporting of cases, strengthening institutional response, including medical health and compensation, ensuring protection for the victims and witnesses during trial and increasing conviction rate in a time bound manner.
 
