“It was a big animal, similar to a blue bull.” 

 “I saw it from a distance, it was as large as a buffalo.” 
 
 “I fought with a strange animal to save my cattle. I am not sure if it was a tiger or a leopard.” 
 
 These are some of the responses the   gets from villagers who have had encounters with tigers near their habitat. In many cases, ignorant villagers end up harming the endangered animal simply because they do not know what it is. To avoid  , people living in forest-villages of UP will be taken to the zoo in batches and shown what a tiger looks like. 
 
  will offer basic education on tigers to such villagers. They will also be told what a leopard looks and behaves like. 
 
 According to the forest department, many villagers have only heard of the feline but never seen it. In most   held by forest department in villages on fringes of  , residents cannot describe a tiger. 
 
 Most of these people do not know what colour a tiger or a leopard is or which has stripes and which has spots, leave alone knowing its growl or roar, said a forest department worker. 
 
 Tiger reserves in the state have a high rate of man-animal conflict. Men either die or are left crippled for life. Tigers face a backlash. In Pilibhit reserve, tigers have even been poisoned.
 
 “Whenever a tiger strays out of the forest and we start a rescue operation, there is a crowd of people from several villagers just to see a tiger,” said WWF-India UP landscape coordinator Mudit Gupta. 
 
 The villagers will be taken to the zoo by primary response teams and protection squads formed at the village level. They will also be trained to handle man-animal conflict.
 
 Though forest officers have been conducting workshops on animal behaviour in the wild, to get people to see the animal is the most essential part. 
 
 “One can escape the tiger only when one knows the animal,” said a forest officer. 
 
 ---
 
 There are simple ways to avoid confrontation with the tiger. A person should avoid squatting on the ground as that’s when most attacks by big cats take place. Tigers mistake squatting men to be quadrupeds. One should always wear fluorescent colours while entering the fringes of the forest. Big cats will avoid you and it will be easier for others to locate you.
 
 Leopards are shy and cowardly and would waylay its prey, hiding in thickets at any slight sound while the tiger is fearless and would come out in the open whenever dared. Otherwise, a tiger is quiet and shy and would slowly cross its way even without making anyone realise of its movement.
 
