Gurgaon: Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar was about to inaugurate the   at   on Delhi-Gurgaon expressway on Monday afternoon, when the skies opened up, reminding everyone present at the function the need for the eight-lane, 1.4km-long bridge. Only a year ago, on July 28-29, 2016, heavy rains had triggered a massive traffic jam at the crossing — one of the busiest on the expressway. ‘Gurujam’ had expedited the construction of the  .

 However, unlike last year, authorities were relaxed knowing that waterlogging would not stop expressway traffic. In addition, the flyover is expected to benefit people living on the either side of the expressway, as well as residents of new sectors along the Dwarka expressway.
 
 Inaugurating the Jaipur-Delhi carriageway of the project that began in November 2014, the chief minister said the flyover would resolve the expressway’s biggest traffic bottleneck. “At the same time, vehicles going towards Sector 10, Kadipur, Basai, Jhajjar and Sultanpur won’t have to cross Kherki Daula toll plaza to take the U-turn. Similarly, commuters going to places like Jaipur, Ajmer, Ahmedabad and Mumbai, would also benefit,” said Khattar.
 
 The flyover is part of a proposed three-layer crossing — flyover, underpass and existing roads — at Hero Honda Chowk, with only the four-lane underpass on Old Gurgaon road still being built, though it is expected to be completed by this year-end. 
 
 The Delhi-Jaipur side of the flyover was completed and opened to traffic on March 27. In addition, there exists the road for exclusive use by vehicles coming from Delhi and bound for Old Gurgaon road, along with slip lanes for U-turns and right turns.
 
 At the media interaction after the event, Khattar said among several on-going projects in Gurgaon, he will be inaugurating and dedicating two major ones to Gurugrammers on August 14, 2017. He though did not reveal what these projects are. “Projects worth crores have been sanctioned and are in progress in the city. The state government is giving special emphasis on Gurgaon’s development,” said Khattar.
 
 Other dignitaries present at the function included Union planning and urban development MoS Rao Inderjeet Singh, state PWD minister Rao Narbir Singh, who is also the local MLA.
 
 Real estate welcomed the development. 
 
 “This is a positive development. The flyover will improve connectivity and reduce travel time, giving further boost to New Gurgaon,” said Anupam Varshney, sales and marketing head, Vatika Limited. 
 
 Elan Group director Ravish Kapoor said the flyover will reduce congestion and be a boon for residents. “Commuters will no longer face traffic snarls and waterlogging,” said Kapoor. 
 
 “The Hero Honda Chowk flyover will definitely ease journey of commuters, especially those travelling towards New Gurgaon, Manesar and Dwarka expressway,” said Rahul Singla, director, Mapsko.
 
 
