PUNE: Three men, who boarded a sedan on April 2 from Hinjewadi to reach Mumbai, held the driver hostage and robbed him of his car and SIM card at gunpoint. 

 They forced the tourist car driver Nazir Shaikh (40) from Navi Mumbai to get off at the Panvel exit of the   and fled with the car. 
 
 Shaikh had dropped four commuters from Kalamboli in Hinjewadi around 9.45pm. Looking to make a quick buck, he offered a lift to three persons for Rs 500 each from Hinjewadi bus stop below Wakad bridge. 
 
 One of them sat next to the driver while his accomplices took the back seats. According to police, the car passed Urse toll naka in Talegaon Dabhade and was crossing Kamshet tunnel, when the robbers asked Shaikh to stop by the roadside, but he refused.
 
 Police said the robbers placed a knife to Shaikh’s nape and a pistol to his head. They threatened and forced him to stop the car after it crossed Bhatan tunnel. The man sitting next to him took charge of the wheel while the others pulled him to the rear seat. The car was driven towards Mumbai. Shaikh did not resit nor raise an alarm.
 
 Assistant inspector Ganesh Dhamne from Hinjewadi police station on Monday said, “The robbers stopped at Panvel exit point and forced Shaikh to get off the car. They snatched his cellphone and removed the SIM card. They gave him back the phone saying they will get into his house and kill him if he filed a police complaint. They drove the car towards Khalapur. Shaikh walked to Panvel taluka police station and filed an FIR.” 
 
 The case was transferred to Pune rural police for investigation. After verifying the spot, the investigating team concluded that the   had started from Hinjewadi and sent the case back to the Panvel police. 
 
 It was transferred to deputy commissioner of police   (Zone III), following which the case was registered at Hinjewadi police under section 392 (robbery) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code.
 
 Dhamne told TOI, “With assistance from the Panvel police, we showed Shaikh photographs of criminals involved in carjacking and robbery on the highways and the expressway. He could not identify the suspects.” 
 
 Shaikh’s complaint said the robbers who were between 20 and 25 years of age spoke in Hindi. “We suspect it was a new gang,” Dhamne said. Footage from CCTV cameras from Urse toll naka showed Shaikh and the robbers in the car. 
 
 Inspector  , in-charge of crime branch (unit II), is conducting parallel investigations. 
 
 Two carjacking cases in April have brought back a sense of fear and memories of similar cases in the previous years. Besides stealing the cars, cash and valuables, extreme violence was used by the carjackers to intimidate their victims. 
 
