US President 
  making major changes to America's policies on refugees and immigration. The order blocks immigration from seven predominantly Muslim countries - Iraq, Syria, Iran, Sudan, Libya, Somalia and Yemen- and stops all refugee resettlement for at least 120 days.

  
  directs the Homeland Security and State departments to the review the refugee application and approval process to find any other security measures that can be added to prevent people who pose a threat from using the refugee program.
 
 The order also calls for Homeland Security and State department officials, along with the director of national intelligence, to review what information the government needs to fully vet would-be visitors and come up with a list of countries that don't provide it. 
 
 The State Department now requires interviews for all visa applicants, except for those under 14, over 79 or who previously held a similar visa that expired less than 12 months prior. Diplomats and other official applicants also are exempt. 
 
 Previously, the interview requirement was waived for applicants applying within 48 months of expiration.
 
 
 
 Vice President Mike Pence defended President  's executive order telling Fox News' Sean Hannity that "any fair-minded person" would understand the directive's intent. 
 
 "What President Trump has done is essentially impose a pause on countries that have been compromised by terrorism so that we can evaluate the screening process and establish ... extreme vetting so that people coming in to this country don't represent a threat to our families and our communities," Pence said. 
 
 He added, "It's been a great encouragement to people all across the country to see President Donald Trump doing everything he said he would do throughout the campaign and were are just getting started. 
 
 
 
 Homeland Security Secretary John Kelly has strongly defended President Donald Trump's sweeping executive order 
  , saying such a measure was "long overdue."
 
 Kelly, a four-star general retired from the US Marines said, "We cannot gamble with American lives. I will not gamble with American lives. These orders are matter of national security and it is my sworn responsibility as the Secretary of Homeland Security to protect and defend the American people." 
 
 Kevin McAleenan, the acting commissioner of  , has candidly admitted communications "haven't been the best in the initial rollout of this process". 
 
 In the first 72 hours of the order, 500,000 foreign travellers came to the US via airplanes. Of those half a million people, he said 721 were denied entry and 1,060 lawful permanent residents were processed for waivers, while another 75 visa holders were granted admission.
 
