NEW DELHI: A 30-year-old woman was found murdered in her   on Monday evening. Police said she was stabbed in her neck. Her wrists were found slashed as well. 

 The victim, Pooja Paswan, used to work at a cosmetics shop in Lajpat Nagar but quit this job recently. Then she started going door to door, selling clothes and upholstery items. She was staying alone at the one-room apartment, police said. Her estranged husband, Sumit, works at a mobile phone company in Patna. 
 
 The body was found lying on a bed by her sister Rekha. Rekha said that she had received a call from one of Pooja’s friends saying that she had been unreachable on her phone since Sunday night. “I presumed that she could be unwell and decided to check on her. My husband dropped me at her house on his way to work. When I reached her house, it was locked from outside. As soon as I opened the door, there was stench of something rotting and I found her body lying on the bed,” said Rekha.
 
 Neighbours claim that Pooja had shifted to the apartment six months ago. According to the family members, Pooja had taken up a job at the cosmetic store after her husband had shifted to Patna. The couple got married two years ago.
 
 Police said that house was ransacked by the killers. The locks to the almirah were, however, found to be intact.
 
 “We have registered a   case at the Amar Colony police station,” said Romil Baaniya, DCP, southeast.
 
 A preliminary probe revealed that Pooja had visited Rekha and her husband Gautam at their house in Chhatarpur last Wednesday after which there was no communication between the sisters. Neighbours claimed that they had seen a couple leaving Pooja’s house on Friday, but did not enquire since she often had visitors.
 
 None of them reported hearing arguments as well. Cops said that the entry to the house seemed to be friendly. The assailants might have used a kitchen knife to stab her and slash her wrists. The body has been sent for an autopsy.
 
 Quoting some sources, police said that Pooja recently had an argument with a friend over her share of money. The possibility of the murder being a fallout of this argument has not been ruled out yet. The role of a family member is also being probed.
 
 Police are scanning call details of two mobile phones Pooja was using before her death. They have apparently zeroed in on a series of incoming calls.
 
