KOCHI: The newly-appointed city deputy commissioner,  , along with city police commissioner held a meeting of the   (CTF) to review and strengthen the force on Wednesday .

 The CTF, aimed at curbing goonda menace in the city, works under the supervision of Ernakulam range IG S Sreejith.
 
 There were reports about the task force becoming sluggish especially following the transfer of former DCP Arul R B Krishna, who used to coordinate the squad.
 
 The police said that the force would remain active with more experienced police personnel specialized in handling goonda cases being added to the squad.
 
 “People having goonda history and those having frequent contact with such people are under observation.Details of all those who are involved in goonda activities in the city have been tabulated by the task force,“ said a senior police officer.
 
 Police said that they are vigilant about all kind of goonda activities, including those related to real estate dealings, land filling and drug trafficking.
 
 The police have announced helpline numbers to report such activities. Information on goonda activities can be reported at 7559899100, commissionerate call centre 04842385006 and shadow police number 9497980430.
 
 “Strict action will be initiated against offenders. Details of the informant will be kept completely secret,“ said the police.
 
 Meanwhile, in a special drive conducted by   on Tuesday, more than 1,318 traffic violation cases were registered. The drive was held as per the directive of  .
 
 According to police, a new plan of action has been designed by the new SP to maintain the law and order in the rural police limit and the special drive is part of the plan.
 
 The vehicle checking held as part of the drive saw 180 cases of drunk driving, 138 cases of rash driving and 989 cases of helmetless riding. About 11 instances of driving while using mobile phones were also reported.
 
 The SP has maintained that similar drives would continue in the coming days.
 
 The rural police have also announced special adalats and complaint boxes at various locations.
 
 
 
