LUCKNOW: First day of the UP   didn’t meet expectations of   MLAs because of disruption following a joint protest by the opposition comprising SP and BSP on Monday.

 “I could never imagine that the governor, who was here to spell out state government’s priorities would be greeted with paper missiles...,” said Siddharth Nath Singh, Cabinet minister and first-time   of the ruling BJP from Allahabad. “This is against the decorum of the assembly,” he added.
 
 Singh was one of the several first-time elected representatives who were taken aback by the raging protest.
 
 Chandra Prakash Shukla, BJP’s first-time MLA from Kaptanganj assembly constituency of   said, “One can see why people rejected SP and BSP and brought BJP to power. The problems which were being pointed out by the opposition leaders were actually created by themselves when SP and BSP were in power. Shukla came out of the adjourned assembly session and said many of fresh legislators expected to get a learning experience from the seniors, even of the opposition parties. 
 
 Debutant MLA (independent) from Anupshahr assembly constituency in Bulandshahr, Sanjay Sharma said the attitude of the opposition, especially the SP was in bad taste. “The way they protested was proof of why law and order situation in the state was poor during SP regime as   of the party set a bad example disturbing the decorum of the house,” he said.
 
 BSP’s first-time legislator   said, “I had seen such scenes on television. We had been instructed to maintain discipline, therefore, our party legislators restricted themselves to flagging placards,’’ she said, adding that their protest was democratic and was against the wrong policies of the state government. 
 
 SP first-time MLA from Suar assembly constituency, Abdullah Azam Khan, however, said the protest was well within limits of decorum. “The BJP has done this throughout the past five years when SP was in power, so now they got a taste of their own pill,” said Abdullah, walking alongside SP president Akhilesh Yadav. Son of senior SP leader and Rampur MLA Azam Khan, Abdullah, is the youngest among 403 elected representatives in the country’s largest legislative seat. 
 
 First-time Congress MLA from Rae Bareli Aditi Singh said she was happy to be part of the grand assembly of legislators but was taken aback by the protest. “But the protest did send out the message that even a smaller opposition could shake the government over its wrong policies,’’ she told TOI.BSP huddles to plan for Day 2.
 
