KOCHI: The Supreme Court judgment banning vehicles that are not compliant with Bharat Stage-IV has brought to the fore the marine pollution caused by fishing vessels using substandard engines.

 At present most boats in the fishing sector are using cheap Chinese-made engines. No standards have been prescribed for these engines and most of them aren't even marine engines.
 
 Experts say that the amendments proposed in the Kerala Marine Fisheries Regulation Act, 1980, can address these concerns. “Motor vehicles have the Bharat Stage as standard, in case of marine engines, there are called Tier 1, 2 and 3. This is very strict in case of merchant navy or trading vessels because of the International Maritime Law (IML) and Directorate General of Shipping. Hence those vessels have the standards,“ said Baiju M V, senior scientist and naval architect,   (CIFT).
 
 In 15 years, the number of Chinese-made engines being used in boats have outnumbered known brands which have better quality. Most engines used are of Tier-1 category, which is the lowest and banned in many countries. Experts said that since   does not have carbon control areas, there is no check on the kind of engines, fuel tanks and emissions unlike the   waters, where standards are very strict.
 
 Boat owners opted for larger boats with more horse power more than a decade ago after the coastal catches declined and marine catches shot up. The competition was to venture farther into the sea and get back to sell the catch first. The Chinese engines entered the market when there was relaxation in the import policy. For boat owners, the increase in consumption of fuel didn't matter as long as the catch was good.
 
 “The pinch began with the fall in catches in the last five years. We have been seeking interventions by research agencies on ways to optimise our expenses. But we still don't have the support from the state government,“ said Joseph Xavier Kalapurackal, general secretary,  .
 
 According to published studies by the CIFT, mechanisation of Indian fishing fleet began with technical and financial assistance from international agencies under the Indo-Norwegian Project (INP). Nearly 1,94,490 fishing craft of various sizes and classes are operating in the marine sector of which 72,559 are mechanised, 71,313 are motorised and 50,618 non-motorised in the country. However, the increase in fishing capacity has resulted in decreasing catch thereby making operations uneconomical. Fishing power in terms of horse power of engines has also been rising over the decades. Competition to reach the fishing spots first in order to net maximum quantity of fish and return to harbour to unload the catch has compelled fishing boat owners to increase the engine power.
 
 In trawlers, the standards for a 15m boat calls for use of 140   engine but most of the boats have about 200 HP. Same is the case with a 20m trawler. The engines used in such boats have 300 HP. In case of Purse Seiners, a 15-20m boat uses 400 HP instead of a 240 HP.
 
 “As they increase the horsepower of engines, the size of the fuel tank also increases. This results in increase in size and weight of the boat which calls for an increase in labourers. All this was okay till the profits came down. Though we had issued warnings before, they woke up late,“ said Baiju.
 
