RAJKOT: Dalit writer   has decided to return the ‘Mahatma Phule Shresth Dalit Patrakar’ award given to him by state government as mark of protest against remark of senior RSS functionary over ending reservation policy. He has also targeted the state government calling it ‘anti-dalit’ as it had failed to fulfil the promises it had made.

 The state government’s department of social justice and empowerment had given Jadav the award in 2011 for his contribution in journalism with cash reward of Rs 25,000. 
 
 Last week, RSS spokesperson   had said that the caste-based quotas were not supposed to be permanent. He justified quotas for SCs and STs but, quoting B R Ambedkar, said reservation could be phased out once the conditions, which led to its introduction into the Constitution, ceased to exist. However, his remarks didn’t go down well with dalits and other communities. 
 
 “I condemn the statement of RSS spokesperson on ending reservation policy. BJP and its sister organisations are conspiring to end the reservation policy. They are anti-dalits,” said Jadav, a part-time professor with Kalavad-based Arts and  . He has been regularly contributing to vernacular language newspapers since last one-and-a-half decade. He has authored over 15 books, mainly on Dr B R Ambedkar and  .
 
 “I have decided to return the award and the cash reward to the state government as it has not fulfilled any of the promises made to dalits. The government is ‘anti-dalit’,” Jadav told TOI. “After four youths were flogged on roads in Una town, government had announced string of actions including setting up of special court to hear the case. Former CM   herself announced speedy justice in the case, but the government is yet to set up the court, while the accused are out on bail. Similarly, government had announced to set up special investigation team, but there is no progress,” said Jadav.
 
 “Three dalits were killed in police firing in 2012. But the trial is yet to begin. Government is yet to set up special atrocity courts for speedy trial for cases lodged under Prevention of Atrocities against Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribes Act,” Jadav alleged.
 
