Gurgaon: Around 100 domestic helps and representatives of 36 NGOs and workers’ unions, on Thursday afternoon, marched to   police inaction and demanded the   of the accused, in the case of alleged   and   of a 14-year-old domestic worker Sabina Khatun, who was found dead in a house in DLF-3 on January 29, 2014.

 The protesters gathered in front of Sai Mandir in Nathupur, close to the house where Khatun was allegedly killed. They demanded the arrest of Apoorva Beri, son of the house owner Vijay Beri, and Om Prakash, their driver, both of whom have been named in a report by forensic sciences laboratory (FSL), in which their DNA samples matched ones found on Khatun’s clothes.
 
 According to Elizabeth, a member of NGO Gharelu Kamgaar Sangathan (GKS), police have failed to arrest the accused, despite conclusive proof of their involvement. She said no action was taken after an FIR was lodged two years ago, and added the girl’s family had been offered Rs 3 lakh to settle the matter, but they refused.
 
 Under pressure from protesters, police registered an FIR a day after Khatun’s death, in which Vijay Beri and his two sons were booked under sections 302 (murder) and 376 (rape) of IPC. According to the girl’s family, her feet were touching the ground when she was found hanging, while her body bore injury marks, indicating assault. Not satisfied with the first post-mortem report, a second one was ordered by court, which was done at PGI Rohtak three days after the incident, after semen samples of the accused were sent to FSL.
 
 GKS, along with Khatun’s family, approached several agencies, including the minority commission and NCW, to put pressure on police and the laboratory to expedite the report. All through 2014, the victim’s family met MLAs, heads of commissions and police officials demanding justice.
 
 When the DNA report did not come till September 2014, an RTI was filed at FSL and   Phase 2 police station. Police only received the FSL report in December 2016, almost a year after Khatun’s death, after a writ petition was filed in Chandigarh high court. By the time arrest warrants were issued against driver Om Prakash and Apoorva Beri, they had fled, Apoorva to Canada and Om Prakash to Bihar, according to sources. TOI has a copy of the FSL report.
 
 At the protest, workers argued that despite the heinous crime, the accused remained at large. A special investigation team, headed by the then DLF ACP, had carried out the initial probe, but current DLF ACP Harinder Singh said there was no progress and refused to comment further.
 
 
