TRICHY: Traffic diversions will be enforced in the city on Saturday evening on account of the   at   in Srirangam which begins on Sunday. The diversions will come into effect at 8pm on Saturday and continue till 2 pm on Sunday. 

 Buses plying from Central Bus Stand and Chathiram Bus Station to Srirangam will reach Srirangam Bus Station through Anna Statue, Odathurai Bridge, National Highways, Kumbakonathan Road, Chennai Trunk Road, Arul Murugan Garden Road, Ambedkar Nagar, Nelson Road, Singaperumal Kovil bus stop, Gandhi Road and will return through Mambalasali, Anna Statue to reach Chathiram Bus Station. 
 
 Buses plying through Lalgudi and Mannachanallur route will have to take a diversion from Odathurai Bridge and reach   via National Highways. 
 
 The vehicles of VIPs should be parked on   after entering Srirangam via Anna Statue, Mambalasalai, Amma Mandapam Road, Ragavendra Arch, Beat 42, Thiruvallur Street. 
 
 Those with vehicle passes will have to park on North Chithrai Street after reaching Srirangam through Panjakarai Road, North Mottai Gopuram. 
 
 Tourist buses from Karur route without vehicle passes should park on National College Higher Secondary School ground by reaching the spot through check post number 7, Anbilar Statue junction and Anna Statue. 
 
 Cars and vans from Karur without passes will park in Moola Thoppu and Muthu Nagar parking lots by entering through check post number 7, Anbilar Statue junction, Anna Statue, Odathurai Bridge, National Highways, Y Road junction, Panjakarai Road, Dasavadhara Sannadhi, Melur Road.
 
 Likewise, those from Madurai, Pudukkottai and Thanjavur will have to park in Moola Thoppu and Muthu Nagar parking lots. They can reach the parking place through Palpannai, Sanjeevi Nagar junction, Y Road junction, Panjakarai Road, Dasavadhara Sannathi and Melur Road. 
 
 For tourists buses without pass from the three districts, a parking lot in Singaperumal Kovil has been allotted. They will also take Palpannai to Nelson Road route through Anbu Nagar, Ambedkar Nagar, and Nelson Road. 
 
 Tourist buses without passes from Chennai, Ariyalur, Salem routes will have to park in Singaperumal Kovil parking lot. They have to reach the spot through Y Road junction. 
 
 Cars and vans from the three districts will be allowed to park in Moola Thoppu and Muthu Nagar parking lots. They have to reach the spots through Y Road junction and Melur Road. 
 
 Senior citizens and differently-abled people can reach up to East Chithirai Street on their vehicles through Thiruvanaikovil junction, Gandhi Road, Devi Theatre junction, North Devi Road. 
 
 The residents of Uthira Street in Srirangam have to park their vehicles on West Chithirai Street on January 7 and 8. 
 
 Heavy vehicles will be diverted from 2pm on January 7 to 6am on January 9. 
 
