HYDERABAD:   will be making an appearance at the Rajiv Gandhi International Stadium for the first time after winning the tournament in 2016.

 The defending champions, who have fi nally managed to get their full squad together on the eve of the inaugural game -missing is Mustafizur Rahman, last year's bowling mainstay -will look to give the Orange Army a rousing start on Wednesday .
 
 It's early summer but the heat will definitely be on the Sunrisers after their brilliant show last season, especially against a side, which even without their regular captain Virat Kohli and KL Rahul, has enough firepower in Chris Gayle and skipper  .
 
 The Royal Challengers Bangalore's woes were further compounded with AB de Villiers being ruled out for the opener and domestic talent Sarfaraz Khan unlikely to play any role in the tournament after a nasty fall during practice on Monday .
 
 The repeat of last year's final will also see two Aussies at the helm.   has had a quiet time in the recently-concluded Test series against India and fresh from a break with his family in Sydney , is raring to go with a team that has retained 17 of the title-winning squad. They released Karn Sharma and Aditya Tare, while acquiring eight new players.
 
 Leg-spinner Rashid Khan, all of 18, is the latest addition to the team along with his Afghanistan teammate Mohammad Nabi. Australian Ben Laughlin is there too as the team looks to fill the gaps, knowing well that Mustafizur will not take part in the whole tournament due to international commitments. Chris Jordan, who was with the RCB in the final last year, will be with SRH this season and the `death' specialist will fancy his chances in a bowling line-up that was the envy of most teams.
 
 Bhuvneshwar Kumar is coming off a good match in Dharamshala and the Purple Cap holder from 2016 was confident that the Sunrisers will show that their title triumph is no fluke.
 
 With a total of 1349 runs between them, Warner and Shikhar Dhawan are one of the most successful opening pairs. That Dhawan struck a semblance of form in the Deodhar Trophy augurs well for the Sunrisers.
 
 
