NEW DELHI: Justice (retired)   was on Thursday elevated to chairman of  's governance commission at the annual congress in  . He polled 97 per cent of the votes by 211 member countries in the elections as per the protocol for the appointment, and will head the committee for a period of four years.

 "The majority of the FIFA congress members voted in favour of India. I am also thankful to the Indian judiciary for allowing me to serve and make me what I am today," the former Chief Justice of Punjab High Court told TOI from Manama after the voting. TOI has learnt that only six countries voted against the former Indian judge who had previously headed the spot-fixing probe in the IPL and administrative cleanup in the Delhi & Districts Cricket Association.
 
 Mudgal replaces former chairman   in what is proving a contentious time for FIFA. The Portuguese Moduro was known for leading a clampdown on political interference in football, and was 'shifted' to another committee following his barring of Vitaly Mutko, Russia's Deputy Prime Minister and Russia's World Cup head from re-election to FIFA's ruling council in March this year.
 
 On Thursday, FIFA president   was moved to defend the global body's decision to replace many senior figures heading FIFA's independent committees, calling it "a storm in a teacup".
 
 While reiterating his stand that FIFA's corruption crisis "over", Infantino nevertheless faced flak over his decision to replace chief ethics investigator Cornel Borbely, ethics judge Hans-Joachim Eckert and governance chairman Professor   Maduro.
 
 On the reason behind Maduro's exit, Infantino apparently suggested that there had been complaints over too many Europeans in senior positions.
 
 Naturally,   faces huge challenges. "My immediate task is to ensure that FIFA is on right path under the new president and become the best governed body in the world," he told TOI.
 
 Mudgal added that his job would be to suggest reforms to governance commission. "I'd like to see our team playing the World Cup one day," he added.
 
 
