JAIPUR: A 28-year-old medical aspirant committed suicide a month before the NEET exam in Kota on Wednesday.

 This is the oldest candidate appearing for a competitive exam to take the extreme step in Kota. The youngest such aspirant committed suicide when he was only 14 in 2016.
 
 The deceased, identified as Rajendra   from Bharatpur, was found hanging from the ceiling fan in his rented accommodation on Wednesday morning in the   police station area.
 
 He was to appear for the medical entrance exam for the fourth time on May 7, 2017. He has been struggling to clear the exam for the last four years in Kota.
 
 This is the fifth suicide this year in Kota. Police have recovered a suicide note written to his mom. “I am ending my life as I fail to prove a good son.......nobody should be held responsible. I am sorry,” the suicide note read, confirming that he was under pressure to perform and suffering from depression.
 
 Preliminary reports said that the deceased had not enrolled in any coaching institute and was appearing in the independent test series. He close friends said that Singh was under stress for his poor performance in the test series. “This was his last effort. Due to his age, he was under intense pressure to clear the exam,” said his friend, who had met him often in Kota, to the police.
 
 Last time, he had suffered a depression when the Central government put an upper cap of 25 years. However, that order was rolled back and he had pinned some hope. Police said that Singh was an average student as he had not scored well in his earlier attempts. His academic qualification is not known but he was a graduate.
 
 “The incident came into light when he didn’t come for dinner to the mess on Tuesday. His friends called him but they went unanswered. They were under the impression that he might be busy studying. But when calls remained unanswered even in the morning, some of them looked through the window and saw him hanging from the fan,” said ASI Bajrang Lal, Dadabari police station.
 
 Police rushed to the spot, broke the door open and found Singh’s body hanging.
 
