KOCHI: A tragedy was averted when a seven-member boat crew escaped after a   their boat around 3am on Sunday. The incident occurred when the crew members were angling after anchoring the boat which left Kochi’s shores.

 The fishermen, who used to cast the net during daytime, were using a rod to fish at night. The men had anchored the boat, Harshitha, at sea away from the coast close to Kollam and had switched on lights of the boat to warn other vessels.
 
 According to rescuers, the ship sped towards the boat out of the blue and rammed it. The crew were severely injured. The boat was damaged in the collision. Water rushed in and somehow the crew managed to reach out to another boat anchored nearby.
 
 The other fishing boat, Chinnu, anchored a few hundred metres away, rushed in and managed to rescue the fishermen before the boat capsized. The container ship, according to the rescuers, hit the boat and dragged it along for a while.
 
 “The boat was well-lit and they were angling for fish. The ship rammed the boat and left without even slowing down. Crew members fell on the deck and were severely injured. However, they managed to stay on board,” said S John of Chinnu boat, who rescued the victims after getting a wireless call.
 
 Though many of them were severely injured, none of them fell into the sea. “The sea is deep and it would be impossible for them to swim in that zone. Luckily, we could get them all aboard our boat before their boat capsized,” said John.
 
 The ship had an amber colour to the bottom and it had a bit of pinkish white colour on top. The ship was big enough to carry containers, said John.
 
 All the crew members were rushed to  . Three of them had suffered severe injuries and are under treatment at the hospital. The rescuers approached the coastal police after the collision and filed a complaint. “We have received the complaint. However, the fishermen could not identify the ship. We have transferred the information given by them about the ship to the Coast Guard. We will be informed about the ship once it is traced by the  ,” said a coastal police officer. 
 
 An  , 427 and 337 of the IPC has been registered at Fort Kochi coastal police station.
 
