NEW DELHI: With   being the current focus of global politics, India and Russia will discuss bilateral relations which is poised to take on a whole new look, when Dimitri Rogozin, Russian deputy PM, and   meet on the sidelines of   on Monday.

 Rogozin will lead a large Russian business and states delegation to the business summit, trying to infuse energy into a business relationship that has been very slow to take off. A Russian trade official told their official news agency, Tass, “The forum and exhibition will feature representatives of more than 20 countries, including more than ten Russian companies and organizations - the Emergencies Ministry, Sibur, Novatek, Rosneft, Roskosmos, Rosatom, Rostech, Schwabe, and others, as well as representatives of the Russian regions." Rogozin will bring along officials from Tartarstan and Astrakhan for the summit.
 
 But the conversation between Modi and Rogozin acquires importance in the present global context as this will be the first high level meeting between India and Russia after Putin’s visit in October. India-Russia ties have been around for a long time and built on solid foundations, but they could go either way.
 
 With   signalling a reset in US-Russia relations, India looks at this as a positive development. Nobody in India actually expects US-Russia to overcome their decades-old animosity, but if Trump and Putin can introduce a measure of normality in their bilateral relations, it could help Russia balance its over-dependence on China. Russia is now heavily invested in the Middle East crisis, and frankly, India has found itself more sympathetic to the Russia point of view.
 
 On the other hand, if Russia enhances its relations with Pakistan, particularly in the defence sector, India would take a very different set of measures, which could even include reducing its buy of Russian weaponry. Indian officials say they understand Russia is looking for new markets for its weapons but selling to Pakistan should not be among them. In the past few months, Russia, which, despite poor economic ties or popular exchanges has been a favourite of Indian governments, has faced unprecedented criticism from Indians.
 
 When questioned, Russian officials have assured their Indian counterparts Moscow would not do anything to affect New Delhi’s security interests. But there seems to be a section of Russian officialdom which is willing to risk Indian displeasure to work on closer relations with China and Pakistan. Russia’s purported engagement of the Taliban in Afghanistan will be particularly problematic for India, and this is expected to form a big part of the conversation between Modi and Rogozin. Russia has also indicated it would participate in the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) which India opposes because it goes through Indian-claimed territory. Russia’s participation would have implications for India-Russia ties.
 
 MEA sources said Vibrant   will see high level participation including, President of Kenya Uhuru Kenyatta, President of Rwanda Paul Kagame, Prime Minister of Portugal Antonio Costa, Prime Minister of Serbia Aleksandar Vucic, Deputy PM of Russia  , Deputy PM of Poland Piotr Glinski, France foreign minister Jean Marc Ayrault, economy minister of Japan Hiroshige Seko and officials and delegations from many other countries.
 
