Frequent   due to poor infrastructure is a  , Rajajipuram, Mohaan Road, Alamnagar, Campbell Road, Yasinganj, Balaganj, Saadatganj, Napier Road Colony and Hussainabad, among others. In these areas of Lucknow (west) constituency, most   and wires lie dangerously close to houses. There have been several incidents of fire and electrocution due to short circuit over the past five years but public representatives have never responded. In fact, many families said they have never seen the MLA after the last elections and that they will vote for whoever assures them a time-bound redress of problems.

 
 
 
 Over head wires on Napier Road near Jama Masjid The City are hanging close to houses, posing a threat to life and property . “I approached the MLA 16 months ago with the problem. He assured me the problem would be resolved but nothing has been done,“ said Raees Iqbal, a resident at Jama Masjid. In Rustam nagar, Kashmiri Mohalla and Tambaku Mandi, residents said they face frequent power cuts due to short circuit. Elec tricity poles at Dargah Hazrat Abbas, Saadatganj, Katra crossing, Chaupatiya and Akbari Gate are old and can collapse any time.
 
 Kashmiri Mohalla : Razi Hassan, resident of Kashmiri Mohalla, drew attention towards high-tension wires in the area which have been installed without any protective covering. Lesa officials told him that putting a protective covering requires government sanction. “We tried to meet the MLA but he is never available,“ he said.
 
 
 
 
 High-tension wires are dangling over a portion of a park in Lajpatnagar. Two transformers have also been installed at the entrance of the park. People have stopped sending kids to the park because of fear of electrocution. “The problem has existed for over seven years now. We tried everything, even informed the MLA, but no one bothers,“ said Indar Pal Singh, a resident.
 
 
 
 
 The area is plagued with improper installation and supply by high tension wires in row houses of E-block and A-block. Residents said they informed Lesa officials and their MLA but the problem has never been rectified. People near the MIS crossing in sector-6 complained about current flowing into ground and their houses during rains.“We don't go out in balconies because of the wires hanging,“ said sector-6 resident Anushka.
 
 
 
 
 Asif Ahmad, a resident of Campbell Road, showed how loose wiring and wires dangling on roads pose problems for the people.
 
 Drawing attention towards the mesh of wires and weak electricity poles in the area, Rifah Siddique, said people have lost hope. “The problem of power theft in severe in Amberganj. Most of the construction work is done at night. Labours use `katia' connection for power,“ said Ashish Arora, a resident of Amberganj.
 
