CHENNAI: It's a  . Only it isn't. It's a five-foot kolam 'framed' on the floor of   in Srirangam, Tiruchy, and just one of the 51-year-old home-maker's intricate, elaborate, exquisitely created designs that has made her quite the sensation on Facebook.

 "70,000 likes and counting is what my daughters tell me, though I don't understand it," Mangalam admits. "All I know is that almost every day I get requests from strangers in different countries to do certain kolams, questions from them about my work, and sometimes just a thumbs up," says Mangalam, who laughs that the people on her street still don't know about her work, but strangers from cities she has never heard of write and call about it.
 
 Mangalam's kolams, made both from rice flour and  , range in size from a few inches to 11 feet (a kolam of Lord Shiva) and in theme from gods and goddesses to even a replica of the late chief minister   (which Mangalam says adorned her house on the morning of December 6, the day after Jayalalithaa's death).
 
  
  
 
 
 Though she has been drawing kolams in the living room and kitchen of her home for decades now - an art she picked up from her mother and then later honed the skill through a painting class - it was her daughters who got her fan club up and running on Facebook. "My mother has been drawing kolams for years but she never talks about it, so it's just a few relatives who know about her work," says Bhargavi, one of Mangalam's daughters. So in 2013, Bhargavi decided to start the Facebook page ' ', and post a picture a day at least of her mother's work.
 
 "I didn't think it would become such a hit. She has so many fans, we get messages on the group almost everyday," says Bhargavi, who adds that she put her mother on the e-map only to let people know what a "wonderful artist" she is. Mangalam's husband SV Srinivasan, General Manager, at BHEL, films the kolams as they are being drawn - some like the Ravi Varma taking hours -- and makes them available on YouTube as mini tutorials."Getting the correct shade of the gold zari in powder is the most difficult part of my kolams," says Mangalam, who, over the years of dotting several Tanjore painting type designs, has mastered the art of turning powder to gold - a mix of lemon yellow, ochre, orange and dark red.
 
 "In the beginning I never used to want to wipe them off the floor because of the work that went into them. But now, knowing that I have fans who look forward to my work, it keeps me motivated. I just have to do a kolam a day whether it takes me minutes or hours. I stay up nights thinking of what next," she adds.
 
 "I can't let my daughters down. After all it is their mom's art gallery," she laughs.
 
